Kabbalistic sources modify this word with <em>kefitzat,</em> meaning “contraction” or “jumping,” to describe how God can basically teleport a person across great distances. For 10 points each:
Give this Hebrew word used to denote the “path” of righteousness. People who stop adhering to Jewish law are said to be “off” this thing.
A school linking the Torah to derekh eretz, or “the way of the land,” is part of this strict branch of Judaism. It includes the Hasidic and Lubavitcher movements and “ultras” exempted from Israeli military service.
The rabbi who founded the Torah im Derekh Eretz movement had this Biblical first name. The Biblical hero of this name, a son of Manoah, tells thirty men at his wedding a riddle about finding honey in the carcass of a lion.
haderekh [pronounced with the guttural kh sound like the beginning of “Hanukkah”] [or haderech; accept kefitzat haderech; accept “off the derekh”]
Orthodox Judaism [or Modern Orthodox; accept Haredim]
Samson [or Shimshon; accept Samson Raphael Hirsch] &lt;MJ&gt;
This thinker argued that, since Christ advocated paying taxes to Rome and mistreated his mother, he objectively committed sins, even though he more significantly can be said not to be sinful. For 10 points each:
Name this theologian who put forth a novel theodicy in the books Christ and Horrors and Horrendous Evils and the Goodness of God, both from the early 2000s.
Adams was a priest in this American subset of the Anglican Communion, which was the first to ordain women and LGBT people.
On the other hand, the largest denomination of this offshoot of the Anglican lineage recently agreed not to allow the ordination of LGBT people. This denomination holds that God’s grace gives rise to an “imparted righteousness” at birth and allows us to live a life of “perfect love.”
Marilyn McCord Adams
Episcopal Church [or Episcopalians]
Methodism [accept (United) Methodist Church] &lt;JM&gt;
The autumnal <em>Kan’namesai</em> ritual features offerings at <em>this</em> place which, according to legend, houses a sacred mirror brought from the Imperial Palace by princess Yamatohime-no-mikoto. For 10 points each:
Name this temple complex in Mie [mee-eh] prefecture, about three hours' drive east of Osaka.
The Ise shrine is dedicated to this chief kami and Shinto sun goddess, from whom the Japanese imperial family claims direct descent.
The Ise shrine dries and salts this luxury foodstuff to offer it to Amaterasu three times a year. This foodstuff, which Amaterasu first ate and absolutely loved at Ise millennia ago, is traditionally obtained by women called ama.
Ise [ee-say] Grand Shrine [or Ise Jingu]
Amaterasu-omikami
abalone [or dried abalone; or noshi awabi; prompt on sea snail, shellfish, seafood, etc.] &lt;MJ&gt;
This text has up to seven different introductions, depending on one’s way of counting. For 10 points each:
Name this three-part text presented as a letter to Joseph ben Yehuda. Many of its chapters are explications of Hebrew terms as a sort of Biblical lexicon, with other chapters being directly philosophical discussions.
The Guide of the Perplexed was written in Judeo-Arabic by this mediaeval Sephardic philosopher and physician, who also wrote an extensive legal commentary called the Mishneh Torah.
Maimonides directs many criticisms against this movement, represented by Saadia Gaon. Maimonides was especially critical of this school’s principle that anything imaginable or conceivable is admissible in argument.
The Guide of the Perplexed [or The Guide for the Perplexed; or Moreh Nevukhim; or dalālat al-ḥā’irīn]
Moses Maimonides [or Rambam; or Moses ben Maimon]
mutakallimūn [or Jewish Kalām; prompt on partial answer] &lt;JM&gt;
This book insists on a 364 day calendar, made possible by counting one “double sabbath” as a single day each year. For 10 points each:
Name this pseudepigraphal text that narrates the early history of the world in 7 and 49-year divisions. It shares its name with the Biblically-attested practice of voiding all debts each 49th or 50th year.
Before the finding of the Dead Sea Scrolls, the oldest known manuscript of Jubilees was in the Ge’ez language of this African country, whose Orthodox Tewahedo Church and Beta Israel communities hold Jubilees as canon.
The Ethiopian version of Jubilees elaborates upon the story of the Nephilim to explain that the “fallen angels” who fathered them were actually children of this human Biblical figure, a view also shared by Augustine and John Chrysostom.
The Book of Jubilees [or Lesser Genesis; or Leptogenesis; or The Book of Division; or Mets'hafe Kufale]
(Federal Democratic Republic of) Ethiopia [or Ityopya]
Seth &lt;JM&gt;
Answer the following about recent changes to the English translation of the Roman Missal, for 10 points each.
Most of the changes affected this creed, whose beginning shifted from “We believe” to “I believe.” This creed’s filioque clause is rejected by the Eastern Orthodox Church.
In the new translation, this section of the Eucharist prayer includes the line “Let us give thanks to the Lord our God” with the new response “It is right and just.” This dialogue includes the line “Lift up your hearts” and leads into the Sanctus.
In this section of the Missal, “peace to His people on earth” became “on earth peace to people of good will.” This text includes the petitions “You take away the sin of the world, receive our prayer; You are seated at the right hand of the Father, have mercy on us.”
Nicene Creed [accept Niceno–Constantinopolitan Creed]
Preface
Gloria in Excelsis [accept Glory to God in the highest; accept Greater Doxology; accept Angelic Hymn or Hymn of the Angels; do not accept or prompt on “Minor Doxology,” “Lesser Doxology,” “Gloria Patri,” “Glory Be,” or “Glory Be to the Father”] &lt;MK&gt;
Defenders of the Neo-Documentary Hypothesis have controversially tried to preserve this source on purely plot-continuity-based grounds. For 10 points each:
Name this source, historically distinguished by critical scholars citing its use of the plural word for God in place of the deity’s proper name, thus distinguishing it from the similar Yahwist or J source.
Many scholars merge the J and E sources, since they can’t be reliably separated outside of this book of the Torah. This book contains the stories of Abraham and Isaac as well as the account of Joseph and his brothers.
The classic J·E·P·D formulation of the Documentary Hypothesis was first codified by this man in his Prolegomena to the History of Israel. Scholars today do not put much store by this man’s theory that the sources can be dated and used to demonstrate the development of Jewish religion over time.
the Elohist source
Genesis [or Bereshit]
Julius Wellhausen &lt;JM&gt;
Adherents of this religion venerate the <em>pañcha-parameshṭhi</em>, including <em>siddhas</em> and <em>arihants</em>, in the Navakāra Mantra, this religion’s most important prayer. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian religion whose adherents also praise the most recent 24 tīrthaṅkaras in the Logassa Sūtra.
Those prayers are among the many sutras Jains recite during this ritual of asking for forgiveness, which Jains may repeat as often as twice a day or as little as once a year, during Paryushan. Jains say “micchāmi dukkaḍaṃ” to ask forgiveness during this ritual.
The word namo in the Navakāra Mantra refers to this action, which Jains perform while reciting the Khamā·samaṇa Sutra. In each rak’ah of Islamic prayer, two forms of this action are performed after reciting two suras.
Jainism
pratikramaṇa
bowing [or prostration] &lt;SK&gt;
Some followers of this religious figure’s tradition founded the organization BAPS, which you may know from their <em>sattvic</em> snack brand, BAPS Shayona. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu ascetic who founded a namesake tradition most prominent in Gujarat, and who codified his strict ethical teachings in the Shikshāpatrī. His followers venerate him as an incarnation of Para·brahma.
Because of his commitment to nonviolence, Swāmi·nārāyan performed many of these Vedic fire sacrifices without using animals.
Like Smarta Brahmins, Swāminārāyan Hindus are instructed to venerate the gods equally as manifestations of Brahman. In practice, many of their rituals center around this butter-loving, gopi-seducing avatar of Vishnu, who speaks with Arjuna in the Bhagavad Gītā.
Swāmī·nārāyaṇa [or Sahajanand Swāmī; or Ghanshyām Pāṇde]
yajña [or yagna; accept homa or havana]
Krishna &lt;SK&gt;
The Arbaʿeen pilgrimage occurs 40 days after this holiday, which is one of the times some believers traditionally practice a form of self-flagellation called <em>tatbīr</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this day that commemorates the death of Ḥusayn.
Ḥusayn was a son of this fourth caliph of Sunnī Islām, whom Shīʿites regard as the first Imām.
In Iran, many cities celebrate the day of ʿĀshūrāʾ with a parade in which this large, cypress-shaped wooden edifice symbolizing Ḥusayn’s coffin is carried around.
(Yom) ʿĀshūrāʾ [prompt on Muḥarram, which is the month in which it occurs]
ʿAlī ibn Abī Ṭālib
Nakhl Gardānī &lt;JM&gt;
Submitters International founder Rashad Khalifa, who was the father of the only Muslim to play in Major League Baseball, attempted to show a “numerical miracle in the Quran” involving multiples of this number. For 10 points each:
Name this number of both the sura and verse in which the birth of Isa to Maryam is proclaimed in the Quran.
Multiples of 19 make up the calendar of this other religion, whose adherents also believe that Baha’u’llah had 19 apostles.
In Baha’i, 19 years make up a Vahid, a word derived from the Arabic word wahid, which, like the Arabic words ahad and tawhid, denotes this theological concept.
19 [accept 19:19]
Baha’i Faith [or Baha’is; accept Babi Faith or Babis]
oneness of God [or oneness of Allah; or monotheism; accept any answer indicating that God or Allah is a singular entity or similar; accept unitarian]
According to an origin myth from this region, the first marriage took place between a man named Ling-dkar and a goddess, who received the “arrow of life” and a spindle as parting gifts from her parents. For 10 points each:
Name this region where the Bon religion is practiced and whose other folklore describes revived corpses called rolangs that are unable to bend at their joints. This mountainous region of Asia is home to the Dalai Lama.
As a symbol for the soul, this mythical horse from Tibetan folklore appears on prayer flags, surrounded by a Snow Lion, tiger, garuda, and dragon. An image of Gesar on his heavenly mount sometimes replaces this horse.
The Wind Horse’s saddle is often depicted carrying this wish-granting jewel from Hindu and Buddhist legends. This object, which is similar to the Western philosopher’s stone, belongs to the chakravartin, or universal monarch.
Tibet [or Bod; or Poi; or Xizang; accept Tibetan Plateau]
Wind Horse [or rlung rta (lung tah)]
Cintamani Stone [or Chintamani Stone; or yid bzhin norbu]
On this feast day, blue vestments are allowed in Spain and former Spanish territories, recognizing that the event commemorated is considered the national patroness of Spain. For 10 points each:
Name this penultimate holy day of obligation in the modern Catholic Church, a feast that falls on December 8.
The Feast of the Immaculate Conception is one of the most important feasts celebrating this woman. Her life is also celebrated in the Feast of the Assumption and the Feast of the Annunciation.
The Immaculate Conception was declared patroness of Spain in 1760, resolving a conflict between followers of Teresa of Ávila and followers of this legendary incarnation of St. James, who supposedly helped the Spaniards win the likely apocryphal Battle of Clavijo.
Feast of the Immaculate Conception
Blessed Virgin Mary [or Miriam or Maria or Maryam; accept answers that indicate Mary, mother of Jesus or similar; Marian Feasts]
St. James the Moor-Slayer [or St. James Matamoros or Santiago Matamoros; prompt on “Santiago”]
In 2017, this man published English-language versions of his books <em>Islam: The Essentials</em> and <em>Introduction to Islam</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss-born thinker whose books explore the relationship between Western Muslims and Islam.
Ramadan’s book Western Muslims and the Future of Islam contains a critique of this American political scientist’s idea of the “clash of civilizations,” which was influenced by Francis Fukuyama’s “end of history” argument.
In that book, Ramadan rejects the Islamic division of the world based on this Arabic word for “abode” or “house.” Traditionally, Islam divides the world into one of these places called “al-Islam,” or “of Islam,” and another called “al-Harb,” or “of war.”
Tariq Ramadan
Samuel Huntington [or Samuel Phillips Huntington]
dar [accept dar al-Islam or dar al-Harb or dur or diyarat or diyara]
Answer the following about the <em>shofar</em>, for 10 points each.
The shofar is a musical instrument typically made from the horn of one of these animals. In Genesis, Abraham sacrifices one of these animals after God spares Isaac.
Jews customarily blow the shofar every morning, except on Shabbat, during this last month of the Jewish calendar that leads up to Rosh Hashanah on the first of Tishrei.
The acronym “tashat” denotes a pattern in which the shofar is blown in a sequence of sounds beginning and ending with tekiah, with this broken, moaning sound in the middle. This sound is sometimes played in conjunction with the staccato teruah sound.
rams [accept (male) sheep or Ovis aries or ovines]
Elul
shevarim [or shvarim; accept shevarim-teruah]
In chapter seven of the <em>Tractatus Theologico-Politicus</em>, Baruch Spinoza made a reasoned argument that this fundamental Jewish belief was false, leading to his expulsion from the Jewish community. For 10 points each:
Name this belief, first set down as the eighth of Maimonides’s “Thirteen Principles of Faith,” that Spinoza pointed out was improbable because of passages mentioning the death and burial of the man in question.
Scholars generally favor this “hypothesis” of Torah authorship, which is contrasted with the “supplementary” and “fragmentary” hypotheses and holds that the Torah was compiled from four originally independent sources.
In contrast to the Yahwist and the Elohist, the Priestly source uses this name of God before the name Elohim is revealed to Moses. This name of God is traditionally written on the back of a mezuzah.
Mosaic authorship of the Torah [accept any answers mentioning Moses or Moshe and the idea that he personally wrote or dictated the entire Torah or Pentateuch or first five books of the Hebrew Bible]
documentary hypothesis [or DH; accept JEDP hypothesis]
El Shaddai
According to the <em>Maha-Sudassana Sutta</em>, this event occurred on a couch at the residence of king Maha Sudassana. For 10 points each:
Name this event that occurred after a blacksmith named Kunda provided a meal that is sometimes known as sukara-maddava, which may either denote pig’s flesh or a food, like truffle, preferred by pigs.
The phrase “if you meet the Buddha on the road, kill him” is one of these cryptic statements meant to test students Zen Buddhism.
This festival, which typically takes place in spring on a date that varies by country, is sometimes known as “Buddha Day” or “Buddha’s Birthday” and celebrates the birth, enlightenment, and death of the Buddha.
death of Gautama Buddha [accept answers mentioning Siddhartha or Gautama or Shakyamuni and the idea of dying or parinirvana]
koans [accept go’gan or kong’an]
Vesak [or Vesakha; or Vaisakha; prompt on “Buddha Purnima” or “Buddha Jayanti”; do not accept or prompt on “Vaisakhi”]
The King James Bible translates this term as “giants,” while the NIV leaves it untranslated. For 10 points each:
Give this term used in Genesis 6:4 for a race of “heroes of old, men of renown.” They are often interpreted as either fallen angels or descendants of Cain or Seth.
In Numbers, ten of these individuals reported seeing Nephilim when scouting the Land of Canaan and thus gave a very gloomy outlook to Moses. Joshua and Caleb were the only two of these twelve individuals who brought back good news.
The exploits of the giants Ohya and Hahya are detailed in the fragmentary Book of the Giants, which is part of this collection of Jewish manuscripts excavated from the caves of Qumran.
Nephilim
Twelve Spies
Dead Sea Scrolls
The introduction to this text describes how Christianity’s degeneration into a “dead body of clergy trailing empty slogans” and “a house of lifeless rituals, a whitewashed tomb” led to the rise of materialism. For 10 points each:
Name this religious text published in 1966 and co-authored by Hyo Won Eu.
The other author of The Divine Principle was this Korean founder of the Unification Church.
The mass-scale weddings or marriage rededications in the Unification Church, such as the one described in Don DeLillo’s Mao II, are known as this kind of ceremony.
The Divine Principle [or Exposition of the Divine Principle]
Sun Myung Moon [or Mun Seon-myeong; or Mun Yong-myeong]
Holy Marriage Blessing Ceremony [accept Blessings or Blessing Ceremonies; prompt on “Holy Marriage”]
The definitive translation of this word into Latin yielded two results—<em>supersubstantialem</em> and <em>quotidianum</em>—for its two appearances. For 10 points each:
Name this disputed Greek adjective that modifies the word “artos” in both of those appearances.
In the Lord’s Prayer, the phrase epiousios artos is usually translated as a “daily” form of this substance, which God is said to “give us this day.”
Catholic doctrine splits the Lord’s Prayer into seven of these divisions, with the phrase “daily bread” coming in the fourth. Catholics do not typically recite the doxology that follows the seventh of these divisions.
epiousios [or epiousion]
(our) daily bread
petitions [or petitiones]
The member of this group who represents transformation of earthly passion into desire for enlightenment has six arms, blood-red skin, and a lion’s head protruding from out of his hair. For 10 points each:
Name these five wrathful gods venerated by the Tendai and Shingon sects. Corresponding to the five Buddhas, these gods are the guardians of Buddhism and include both the aforementioned Aizen and the rope-wielding Fudo.
In addition to the Wisdom Kings and the Buddhas, esoteric Buddhists venerate this third major group of divine beings. This is the term for people who delay acceptance of nirvana to help free others from samsara.
The Wisdom King, sometimes called Vajrabhairava (vahj-rahb-hye-rah-vah) or Daiitoku (dye-ee-toh-koo), is also referred to as the “defeater” of this Hindu god. This god rode a water buffalo and owned two four-eyed dogs who served as guides to his realm.
Wisdom Kings [or Kings of Brightness; or Kings of Knowledge; accept myo-ou or vidyaraja]
bodhisattvas
Yama [accept Yamaraja; accept Yamantaka]
A very large one of these items connects the two “married couple rocks” known as Meoto Iwa that represent Izanagi and Izanami. For 10 points each:
Give this Japanese term for lengths of rope made of rice straw or hemp that are often festooned with a streamer known as a shide and are used to demarcate the boundaries of Shinto holy places.
The larger of the “married couple rocks” contains one of these holy gates that also mark the boundary between secular and sacred space in Shintoism.
The “married couple rocks” are found on the coast near this shrine complex, which is torn down and rebuilt every 20 years and is dedicated to Amaterasu.
shimenawa
torii
Ise Grand Shrine [or Ise Jingu; prompt on “Naiku” or “Geku” or “Jingu”]
Answer the following about suicide and religion, for 10 points each.
Émile Durkheim’s monograph Suicide’s finding that practitioners of this religion were less likely than other Christians to kill themselves has been challenged on the theory that likely suicides among its followers were more likely to be reported as sudden deaths by unspecified causes.
In 2015, the Rajasthan High Court outlawed a form of fasting to death in this religion, known as Sallekhana, because it was ruled a form of suicide.
This rite of ritual self-mummification was performed, mostly unsuccessfully, by Shingon monks in the mountains of the Yamagata region in northern Japan during the 11th to 19th centuries.
Roman Catholicism [accept any answer mentioning Catholics or Catholic religion]
Jainism [or Jain Dharma; accept answers mentioning forms of the word Jain]
sokushinbutsu
Andre LaCocque and Paul Ricoeur debated this book in their essays “The Shulamite” and “The Nuptial Metaphor” for the <em>Thinking Biblically</em> collection. For 10 points each:
Name this biblical book, the subject of “meditations” in which Teresa of Ávila takes great joy in the fact that it opens with the narrator “speaking with one person and asking peace from another.”
In a preface to his Latin translations of Origen’s homilies on the Song of Songs, this man wrote that “in his other works, Origen habitually excels others; in this commentary, he excelled himself.” He also made the definitive translation of the Bible into Latin.
This abbot applied his four-layer model of biblical interpretation to his sermons on the Song of Songs. He reemphasized lectio divina in his leadership of Benedictine reforms that led to the formation of the Cistercians.
Song of Songs [or Song of Solomon; or Canticles; or Sir HaSirim]
St. Jerome [or Eusebius Sophronius Hieronymus]
Bernard of Clairvaux [or Bernardus Claraevallensis; prompt on “Clairvaux” or “Charaevallensis”]
While reading a passage from this biblical book, a man was asked, “Do you understand what you are reading?” and replied, “How can I, unless someone guides me?” For 10 points each:
Name this biblical book that was then explained to that man, who then noticed some water by the side of the road, causing him to command his chariot to stop so that he could be baptized.
This saint explained the passage from Isaiah to the aforementioned man, an Ethiopian eunuch, and baptized him. This saint also preached in Samaria, where he performed miracles and converted Simon Magus.
One of the numerous quotations of Isaiah in the New Testament is Simeon’s proclamation that he has seen “a light for revelation to the Gentiles,” when he saw Jesus during Jesus’s presentation in this place.
Book of Isaiah
Philip the Evangelist [do not accept “Philip the Apostle”]
the Temple [or Second Temple; or Beit HaMikdash] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
For these animals to be considered kosher, they must have fins and scales that can be removed without tearing their skin. For 10 points each:
Name these animals that are customarily eaten during Sabbath dinners, often served ground and mixed with onion, eggs, and matzo meal in a dish called gefilte (“guh-FILL-tuh”) [this animal].
Gefilte fish is often eaten during Sabbath dinners because it circumvents a Sabbath restriction against separating inedible parts like bones from edible food, an action that has this Hebrew name.
Because fish in the sea are covered by water and thus protected from the evil eye, fish are common symbols in these hand-shaped talismans sometimes used by Sephardic Jews to ward off the evil eye.
fish [accept gefilte fish]
borer (“boh-RAIR”)
hamsa [or khamsa] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
In 1973, an advocate of this deity named Zemey Rinpoche published a tract called the “Yellow Book,” describing several lamas who were harmed by this deity for adopting heretical teachings. For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist protector deity who is worshipped by followers of the New Kadampa Tradition. In 1996, the Dalai Lama formally banned the worship of this deity due to its sectarian nature.
Though Dorje Shugden originated from the Sakya school of Tibetan Buddhism, he ultimately came to be regarded as a protector of this other Tibetan Buddhist school led by the Dalai Lama.
According to a 2015 Reuters report, the worship of Dorje Shugden was promoted by this government, whose other interventions in Tibetan Buddhism include the reinstatement of the Golden Urn to control reincarnations.
Dorje Shugden [or Dorje Shuk-den; or Dolgyal]
Gelug [or Gelugpa; or Yellow Hat]
People’s Republic of China [or PRC; or Zhongguo; or Zhonghua renmin Gongheguo; accept Communist Party of China or CPC] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
Kenneth Hagin’s Word of Faith movement spreads its teachings through this medium via the Trinity Broadcasting Network. For 10 points each:
Name this medium utilized by Pat Robertson through his show The 700 Club. Oral Roberts once told his audience on this medium that unless he raised eight million dollars, God would “call me home.”
The spread of Pentecostalism in this country has been facilitated by Edir Macedo’s purchase of this country’s RecordTV network in 1989. In this country, Macedo founded the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God.
For more than thirty years, this televangelist broadcast the Hour of Power from the megachurch he founded in Garden Grove, California, the Crystal Cathedral.
television [or TV; or telly; accept televangelist or televangelism]
Federative Republic of Brazil [or República Federativa do Brasil]
Robert Schuller &lt;AK, Religion&gt;
The Parashat Nitzavim, a Torah portion from the Book of Deuteronomy, begins with Moses’s declaration that “You are standing today, all of you, before the Lord your God” to enter into one of these things. For 10 points each:
Name these things that are denoted by the Hebrew word brit. Abraham entered into one of these things on Mount Betarim, giving him the land of Canaan but requiring the circumcision of him and his descendents.
Another covenant found in the Book of Genesis, requiring people not to eat blood and asserting that “Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed,” was symbolized by the appearance of this thing in the sky.
The Christian doctrine of supersessionism, which holds that the New Covenant replaced the Mosaic Covenant, is often defended using chapter six, verse sixteen from this Pauline epistle, which states, “And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God.”
covenants [prompt on contracts or equivalents]
rainbow [or bow in the cloud] (The covenant was made with Noah.)
Epistle to the Galatians &lt;AK, Religion&gt;
In Islamic eschatology (“ess-kuh-TAH-luh-jee”), a figure identified as a descendant of this man will begin an uprising in the Levant before going on to attack Medina and Kufa. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who was a leader of the Quraysh tribe and early opponent of Muhammad in Mecca. He led the Meccan forces to victory over the Muslims at the Battle of Uhud.
The apocalyptic figure called the Sufyani will be opposed by this other figure who will justly rule the world prior to the Day of Resurrection. Twelver Shias believe that the last imam will reappear as this figure.
The arrival of the Mahdi will be heralded by flags of this color flown at Khorasan. In another context, pilgrims gesture towards or kiss an object of this color during tawaf.
Abu Sufyan ibn Harb
Mahdi
black [accept Black Standard or Black Stone] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
In 1913, a Russian warship invaded this mountain to round up monks who advocated <em>imiaslavie</em>, the worship of God’s name as God Himself. For 10 points each:
Name this mountain, the site of twenty monasteries, that functions as a semi-autonomous theocracy within Greece. Since 1060, women and female animals have been banned from this mountain.
According to tradition, Gabriel revealed this hymn honoring Mary to a monk at Mount Athos. This hymn begins, “It is truly meet to bless you, O Theotokos.”
Mount Athos lies under the spiritual jurisdiction of this position within the Eastern Orthodox Church. In 1054, the holder of this position and the Pope excommunicated each other, initiating the East-West Schism.
Mount Athos
Axion Estin
Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople [or Patriarch of Constantinople] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
This rabbi’s death is commemorated on Lag B’Omer (“LOG buh-OH-mair”), during which it is customary to light bonfires and for children to play with bows and arrows. For 10 points each:
Name this rabbi, who is traditionally credited with writing the Zohar, which was more likely written by Moses de León. He was said to have hid inside a cave for thirteen years, living off the fruit of a miraculous carob tree.
The Zohar is an important text in this Jewish mystical tradition. This tradition is often concerned with the relationships between the ten sephirot (“suh-fee-ROTE”), which are emanations from Ein Sof (“ane SOHF”), the infinite god.
Another influential teacher in Kabbalah was this man, whose ideas were collected by Chaim Vital (“KHAH-yeem vee-TAHL”) in the Etz Chayim (“etts KHAH-yeem”). This man taught that creation arose when God contracted himself during tzimtzum (“tseem-TSOOM”).
Simeon bar Yochai (“yoh-HY”) [or Simeon ben Yohai; or Rashbi, but be careful not to accept “Rashi”]
Kabbalah
Isaac ben Solomon Luria [or HaAri or Arizal] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
A sacred one of these objects known as an <em>upavita</em> or <em>yajnopavita</em> is typically worn by recipients over their left shoulder and across their chest. For 10 points each:
Name these objects that boys will receive during the Hindu initiation ritual of upanayana, which will mark them as dvija (“DWI-juh”), or “twice-born.” Sisters tie these things around their brothers’ wrists during Raksha Bandhan.
The upanayana ritual marks a boy’s entry into brahmacharya, one of these four Hindu stages of life. The last of these stages is sannyasa, during which people are expected to renounce all of their possessions.
During upanayana, boys are taught this mantra from the Rig Veda, which is dedicated to the sun god Savitr.
threads [accept strings; anti-prompt on wristband or bracelet]
ashrama [or asrama]
Gayatri mantra &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
In his Farewell Sermon, Muhammad warned against considering these people superior to others, stating that only piety, or <em>taqwa</em>, was important. For 10 points each:
Name these people, whose preeminence was opposed by the shu’ubiyya movement. During the Umayyad caliphate, the word mawla came to refer to Muslims who were not these people.
Until reforms by Umar II, the mawali were required to pay this tax usually levied on dhimmis, who are non-Muslim subjects of a Muslim ruler. The Surat At-Tawbah mandates the payment of this tax.
An oft-cited example of racial equality in early Islam is this freed African slave, who was appointed by Muhammad as the first muezzin (“moo-EH-zin”).
Arabs
jizya
Bilal ibn Rabah &lt;AK, Religion&gt;
In the Yasna, Zoroaster asks the deity of this plant, “Who, o Man, are you, the most beautiful of the entire material world whom I have seen,” and in his response the deity calls this plant by the epithet <em>dūraoša</em> (“doo-RAO-shah”). For 10 points each:
Name this sacred plant in Zoroastrianism, which is pounded in a mortar to prepare a consecrated liquid. This plant’s name is cognate to the Vedic soma.
Haoma is pounded to produce parahaoma as part of this Zoroastrian ritual, an offering to water that is the culminating act in the liturgy of the Yasna.
In part because of the role of water in the Ab-Zohr, these Zoroastrian places of worship are typically built near a source of water. The most sacred of these places of worship contain an Atash Behram.
haoma [or hōm; accept parahaoma or parahōm]
Ab-Zohr [or zor-melavvi; or jor-melavvi]
fire temples [or dar-e mehr; or darbe-mehr; or agiyari] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
According to a hadith, every instance of this concept “is misguidance, and all misguidance leads to hellfire.” For 10 points each:
Name this Islamic concept that refers to religious innovations. According to some Muslim scholars, the veneration of Sufi saints at shrines is an example of this concept.
Another example of bid’ah oft-cited by Salafis is the celebration of this holiday that commemorates Muhammad’s birthday.
The Qur’anic basis against bid’ah is given by a verse of Al-Ma’ida, the surah of this number, asserting that “Today I have perfected your religion for you.” This is also the number of obligatory daily prayers for salat.
bid’ah
Mawlid an-Nabi
five &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
This man was the first Christian to compile a biblical canon, consisting of his namesake gospel and a group of ten Pauline epistles called the <em>Apostolikon</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of a heretical Christian movement who rejected the Old Testament, teaching that Jesus came to reveal a new and different God who was purely benevolent toward humans.
The Gospel of Marcion was an edit of this canonical gospel, ascribed to a namesake physician. This gospel is generally thought to share an author with the Acts of the Apostles, both of which are addressed to Theophilus.
Bart Ehrman’s (“UR-min’s”) Lost Christianities contrasts Marcion’s followers with this other movement, which emphasized Jewish customs and rejected Paul’s writings. Its name derives from a Hebrew word meaning “the poor.”
Marcion (“MAR-shun”) of Sinope
Gospel of Luke [or Gospel According to Luke]
Ebionites [or Ebionaioi] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
In 1828, this religious movement was founded by Ram Mohan Noy, who had previously helped spread Unitarianism in India by co-founding the Calcutta Unitarian Society. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu reform movement that was later led by Debendranath Tagore, whose disagreements with Keshab Chunder Sen over the incorporation of Christianity led to a schism within this movement.
One of Ram Mohan Noy’s early goals for Brahmo Samaj was to abolish “social evils” like this funerary practice in which widows would commit suicide by throwing themselves on their husbands’ funeral pyres.
Another practice opposed by Brahmo Samaj was the veneration of these Hindu images of deities. These images are ritually bathed during abishekha, which takes place as part of pujas.
Brahmo Samaj [or Brahma Samaj; accept Brahmo Sabha; accept Adi Samaj or Adi Dharma]
sati [or suttee]
murti [or pratima or vigraha or rupa; prompt on idols or statues] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
This concept in Buddhist logic asserts that the four possible forms of a proposition <em>P</em> are [read slowly] “<em>P</em>,” “not <em>P</em>,” “<em>P</em> and not <em>P</em>,” and “neither <em>P</em> nor not <em>P</em>.” For 10 points each:
Name this concept that was used in a negative form in the Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way: “Neither from itself, nor from another, nor from both, nor without a cause, does anything, anywhere, ever, arise.”
The aforementioned Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way was authored by this Indian Buddhist philosopher, who founded the Madhyamaka, or “middle way” school of Buddhism.
The Madhyamaka school is considered to be part of this branch of Buddhism, which emphasizes the study of the Perfection of Wisdom sutras. This “Great Vehicle” branch is often contrasted with Theravada Buddhism.
catuṣkoṭi (“chah-toosh-KOH-tee”) [or chatushkoti; accept tetralemma; accept fourfold negation]
Nagarjuna
Mahayana Buddhism &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
The scene featuring these objects follows after some angels reap the earth with sickles and cast a winepress into "the vine of the earth," causing blood to come out. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, which are given to seven angels. The first of these objects causes a "grievous sore" to men with the mark of the beast, while the last causes a voice to say "It is done" before a great earthquake.
This final book of the New Testament features the pouring of the seven vials, as well as the messages to the Seven Churches of Asia. It was probably written by John on the island of Patmos.
In Revelation, the letter to this city’s church praises their works, labor, and patience, but criticizes that they have "left their first love." A Pauline epistle to this city states “For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith.”
vials [or bowls]
Book of Revelation
Ephesus &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
Constantin Brâncoveanu was a prince of this nation who was sanctified for his and his son’s martyrdom. For 10 points each:
Identify this European nation, whose church is home to the second most members among Orthodox churches.
The most important episcopal see in Eastern Orthodoxy is in this city, whose Ecumenical Patriarch is Bartholomew the First. This city is currently known as Istanbul.
This prominent term in Eastern Orthodox, and more generally Christian theology, comes from the Greek word to empty out. In Orthodox Christianity, it refers to form of self-renunciation allowing you to become receptive to the Holy Spirit.
Romania
Constantinople
kenosis &lt;HB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following related to the parables of Jesus.
A beggar with this name goes to heaven while a rich man goes to hell in one parable. Another Biblical person with this name was the brother of Mary of Bethany and Martha.
Known as the 31st parable in Luke 15, this parable tells of a son who, after being given a fortune, squanders it and runs away from home only later to be welcomed back by his father.
In the third parable from Matthew, Jesus says that people do not put this object underneath a bowl but instead put it on a stand. In the sixth parable, this object on a stand is again mentioned and Jesus says "For there is nothing hidden that will not be disclosed."
Lazarus
Parable of the Prodigal Son [or Lost Son]
lamp [prompt on light] &lt;HB&gt;
This Jewish sect often performs their devotions to the tune of the Moldovan dance-pop song and meme “Dragostea din Tei.” For 10 points each,
Name this sect, the devotees of a 19th century rabbi from Breslov, who are often seen in Israeli streets playing music and dancing in an attempt to spread joy.
This other sect once led by Mendel Menachem Schneerson is known for its outreach, especially in Brooklyn, where anti-Semitic riots broke out after Schneerson’s motorcade struck a black child.
The Na Nach and the Chabad-Lubavitch both fall under the umbrella of this branch of Judaism, sects of which include Haredim and Hasidim.
Na Nach
Chabad- Lubavitch (accept either)
orthodox &lt;JM&gt;
This Jewish sect often performs their devotions to the tune of the Moldovan dance-pop song and meme “Dragostea din Tei.” For 10 points each,
Name this sect, the devotees of a 19th century rabbi from Breslov, who are often seen in Israeli streets playing music and dancing in an attempt to spread joy.
This other sect once led by Mendel Menachem Schneerson is known for its outreach, especially in Brooklyn, where anti-Semitic riots broke out after Schneerson’s motorcade struck a black child.
The Na Nach and the Chabad-Lubavitch both fall under the umbrella of this branch of Judaism, sects of which include Haredim and Hasidim.
Na Nach
Chabad- Lubavitch (accept either)
orthodox &lt;JM&gt;
This man’s dialogue with Catholic writer Thomas Merton was published as the essay “Wisdom in Emptiness.” For 10 points each:
Name this writer, who compared the thought of Meister Eckhart to concepts such as satori and sunyata in his introductions to an Asian religious school.
Suzuki is best-known for spreading this school of Buddhism to the West. This school emphasizes meditation, sometimes through contemplation of paradoxical sayings called koans.
In Japan, Suzuki popularized the theology of this man, whom he dubbed the “Buddha of the North.” Thousands of 19th-century Americans, including Johnny Appleseed, joined the New Church based on the teachings of this Swedish mystic theologian.
D. T. Suzuki [or Suzuki Daisetsu Teitaro]
Zen Buddhism
Emanuel Swedenborg
This event occured while one figure was on his way to meet his brother, whose birthright he had previously bought with a bowl of soup. For 10 points each:
Name this Biblical event, in which that man refused to let another figure go free without a blessing, resulting in that man being given the name Israel.
The story of Jacob wrestling with the angel appears in this book of the Old Testament, which also includes the stories of his father Isaac and grandfather Abraham.
The figure whom Jacob wrestles is first described as an angel in this book of the Bible. This book is the first by a Minor Prophet, and its title figure uses his adulterous wife Gomer as a metaphor for the nation of Israel.
Jacob wrestling with an angel [or equivalents; or Jacob wrestling with God; prompt on partial answers]
Book of Genesis
Book of Hosea &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
It always consists of the touching with oil of the eyes, ears, nostrils, lips, hands, and feet, and can sometimes involve similar application to the small of the back or the groin, though never for men. For 10 points each:
Name this Sacrament of the Catholic Church.
According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, the principal Biblical justification for the Anointing of the Sick comes from the fifth chapter of this book, alleged to have been written by the brother of Jesus.
The same Catholic Encyclopedia suggests that Anointing the Sick was denounced by this heretical sect. This sect, which flourished in the late 1100s in the Piedmont of France, favored extreme renunciation of wealth.
anointing the sick [or extreme unction]
Book of James
Waldensians [or followers of Peter Waldo] &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the religion most commonly practiced in Japan.
This religion reveres kami, which is often translated as “spirits,” but which can refer to the sacred essence of things like rocks and trees.
This shinto practice is said to have originated as an attempt to lure the sun goddess Amaterasu out of a cave. This practice is a theatrical dance which still takes place every December in the imperial sanctuary.
One of these things was hung on a tree to help lure Amaterasu out. That particular artifact of this type, the Yata no Kagami, has a name referring to its “eight hand” length and is said to represent honesty or truth.
Shintoism
kagura
mirrors &lt;AF&gt;
Answer the following about people who are mocked in Buddhist scriptures. For 10 points each:
In the Vinaya Pitaka, the Buddha declared that this man, his cousin, was “controlled by eight wrong conditions” and “doomed to the Downfall, to Niraya Hell,” after he led 500 other monks into a schism within the Sangha.
Sariputra, a disciple of the Buddha often regarded as dull in Mahayana tradition, is the addressee of this sutra, which is the origin of the mantra, “Gone, gone, gone beyond, gone completely beyond.”
Nichiren, a Buddhist leader from this country, mocked this country’s other Buddhist movements with his “four declarations,” which included such tolerant statements as “Nembutsu is hell” and “the Zen are devils.”
Devadatta
Heart Sutra [or Heart of the Perfection of Wisdom Sutra; or Prajñāpāramitāhṛdaya Sutra]
Japan [or Nippon] &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
This action is typically performed by Babaaláwos or Iyalawos, and it follows from the teachings of Orunmila. For 10 points each:
Name this action that is usually done with the aid of such objects as the Opele or Ikin.
Ikin are objects of this type, which are used to divine by throwing them against the cowrie shell decorated Opon Ifá, and determining which of the 256 signs their pattern displays.
Ifá is a common practice amongst these West African peoples, who also use ritual drum beats to allow specific Orishas to “mount,” or possess, them. This group of the Osun Osogbo festival also has large Christian and Muslim memberships.
divination [accept equivalents, such as divining or prophecy; accept Ifá]
palm nuts or kola nuts
Yoruba people [accept Ìran Yorùbá] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, name some people involved in the Protestant Reformation, which is celebrating its 500th anniversary this year:
This Lutheran reformer was the main author of the Augsburg Confession and began several debates with Ulrich Zwingli regarding the Swiss reformer’s doctrine of the Lord’s Supper.  His work in education reform included suggesting that schools teach only Latin.
This French Protestant reformer and author of the Institutes of the Christian Religion lent his name to a denomination whose modern incarnations include the Reformed and Presbyterian churches. This Genevan was also responsible for the burning of Michael Servetus at the stake for heresy.
This missionary brought Calvinism’s Presbyterian variant to Scotland and wrote The First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women.
Philip Melanchthon [or Philipp Schwartzerdt]
John (or Jean) Calvin [or Jehun Cauvan]
John Knox &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
Answer the following about a group of warriors in Sikhism, for 10 points each:
These warriors are bestowed the titles of Singh or Kaur upon initiation, meaning “lion” and “princess,” respectively. The name of this group literally means “the pure.”
The five Ks require its followers to carry the kirpan sword, the kara bracelet, and this other item, which symbolizes cleanliness because it used to remove tangles. The generic English name is acceptable.
The Khalsa are initiated during this ceremony, where the presence of six Sikhs is necessary. In its first iteration, Guru Gobind Singh pretended to execute five people with a sword.
the Khalsa
a comb [or kangha]
Amrit Sanchar &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
Answer some questions about who actually counts as a Jew according to different denominations or texts for 10 points each:
Description acceptable. Text from the Mishnah resulted in the rabbinic law convention among Orthodox and Conservative Jews that only people who convert to Judaism or have Jewish ancestry of this kind are Jewish.
This body of Jewish law is laid out in the Shulchan Aruch. Hard-line Orthodox sects regard complete observance of this law code as necessary for converts to become Jews, which includes their undergoing circumcision and immersion in a mikveh.
According to the halakha, even an observance of these 613 Jewish commandments does not make someone a Jew. These commandments, found in the Torah, are attributed to Rabbi Simlai.
matrilineal descent [accept any answer stating something like the mother is a Jew]
halakha [or halacha; or halocho]
613 mitzvot &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about animals in Islam.
This Arabic word, meaning “lawful,” often refers to rules about animals one can eat and how to slaughter them. This word is often contrasted with haram.
The year of Muhammad’s birth is known as the year of this animal, because one of these animals named Mahmud knelt and refused to go on while marching at the head of an army advancing on Mecca.
A weak hadith reports that in Medina, Muhammad ordered the killing of animals of this sort with spots over their eyes. Another hadith says that the Angels of Mercy do not enter a house where there are these animals or a picture of a living creature.
halal
the elephant [or fil; accept Year of the Elephant; or Amu L’Fil]
a dog [accept black dog specifically] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
This festival is said to commemorate the spilling of amrita in four different places after the Churning of the Ocean. For 10 points each:
Name this pilgrimage festival that takes place once every twelve years in each of the four cities of Haridwar, Allahabad, Nashik, and Ujjain.
Another Hindu pilgrimage site is the Amarnath Temple in the Himalayas, which features a naturally occurring one of these objects made from ice. The feminine counterpart of this kind of object is called a yoni.
The linga is a symbol of this Hindu destroyer god, who makes up the Trimurti along with Brahma and Vishnu.
Kumbha Mela
lingam
Shiva
Pope Clement XI issued the bull Ex illa die and dispatched the legate Charles-Thomas Maillard de Tournon in response to this issue. For 10 points each:
Name this historical issue that centered on the acceptance of tablets inscribed with the phrase “site of the soul” and the use of words meaning “heaven” and “highest emperor” to refer to God.
Identify either of the aforementioned words that Clement forbade Jesuits from using to refer to God. Both of these words refer to the concept of a supreme deity in traditional Chinese cosmology.
The aforementioned tablets are said to contain the yīn aspects of these figures, who are venerated in the Qīngmíng festival and at household altars.
Chinese rites controversy [accept answers that describe Jesuits adopting Chinese/Confucian customs]
Tiān or Shàngdì or Dì
ancestors [or zǔ; or xiānrén; prompt on “dead people” or “dead family members”]
The “lesser” form of this practice is so named because it occurs only in one’s own thoughts. For 10 points each:
Name this practice that is the only sin Allah does not forgive, because it involves worshipping anyone or anything other than Him.
Shirk therefore represents this kind of religious stance, which affirms the existence of more than one deity.
Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab campaigned vigorously against both shirk and this other practice, which he defined as any change in Islam that had taken place since the time of the salaf, the first three generations of Muslims. The Arabic word for this practice simply means “innovation,” leaving it open to varying interpretations.
shirk
polytheism
bid’ah
Name some terms from religious studies, for 10 points each:
This term refers to a belief adopted by a group of people within a religion that differs strongly from orthodoxy, frequently resulting in the persecution of that group. Historical examples include Arianism and Nestorianism.
This term denotes the subfield of hermeneutics concerned with the interpretation of religious texts.
This term refers to the study of a religion’s theologies and doctrines regarding the idea of salvation.
heresy
exegesis
soteriology
A religious leader from this country claims to be an incarnation of the deity El Cantare and publishes interviews he has conducted with the spirits of dead politicians in the online newsletter The Liberty. For 10 points each:
Identify this country that experienced a proliferation of new religions, including the aforementioned Happy Science, shortly after its government revoked the official status of Shinto.
This Japanese New Religion founded by Nakayama Miki promotes the worship of “God the Parent” and the pursuit of the Joyous Life.
This other Japanese New Religion draws from the New Thought movement, especially the “Science of Mind” teachings of Ernest and Fenwicke Holmes. During the 21st century, it has shifted its focus to environmentalism.
Japan [or Nippon]
Tenrikyo
Seicho-no-Ie
These events take place in two stages: erusin and nissuin. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of event that takes place under a canopy called a chuppah, after which a man breaks a glass with his right foot and everyone shouts “Mazel tov!”
This type of document is a Jewish prenuptial agreement that spells out a husband’s obligations toward his wife.
If a Jewish man wants to leave his wife, he may request a divorce by giving this other type of document to her.
Jewish weddings [or Jewish marriages; prompt on “weddings” or “marriages”]
ketubah
get
While practitioners of this action perform it to demonstrate how God keeps them from harm, that did not stop the founder of this practice in the United States from dying while performing it in 1955. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, popularized by George Went Hensley and engaged in by some members of the Church of God with Signs Following, along with drinking poison.
Practitioners of snake handling point for support to a passage in this text, which states that believers “shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them.” Along with Q, it is one of the texts referred to in the name of the two-source hypothesis.
Churches that practice snake handling are a part of this larger movement in Protestantism, which emphasizes spiritual gifts such as speaking in tongues and faith healing.
snake handling [accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
the Gospel according to Mark
Pentecostalism
Answer questions about symbols that appear on the torso-shaped Jain emblem, for 10 points each:
The bottom-most symbol consists of a hand with a wheel inside it and this Sanskrit word inside the wheel. This word translates as “non-violence.”
Above the hand is this auspicious symbol common to many Asian religions. In Jainism, this symbol’s four arms represent the four states of existence.
Above the swastika are four dots, the topmost of which is inside a semicircle representing the dwelling-place of these beings. They possess the eight qualities of a soul that has freed itself from samsara and achieved moksha.
ahimsa
swastika [or gammadion cross]
siddahs
In its initial form, this hypothesis proposed that the Pentateuch derived from four initial narrative sources, which were combined over time by a series of redactors. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis, which was promoted by and is sometimes alternatively named for Julius Wellhausen.
One of the four sources in the documentary hypothesis is named for this fifth book of the Pentateuch. The ending of this book relates the death of Moses and his succession by Joshua as leader of the Israelites.
Wellhausen identified this scribe as the final redactor of the Pentateuch. In his namesake book, he expresses dismay that some Jews have married non-Jews while in exile and decides that these foreign wives and their children must be sent away.
documentary hypothesis
Deuteronomy
Ezra
An international conference in Hamburg, Germany in 2007 recommended the full re-establishment of this religious group. For 10 points each:
Name this religious group whose members are called bhikkuni and must take additional vows called the Eight Garudhammas, which are harsher than the normal rules of vinaya and subordinate them to their male counterparts.
Until very recently, it was illegal to become a Buddhist nun in most countries where this sect of Buddhism is predominant. Members of this sect strive to become arhats by following the teachings collected in the Pali Canon.
This is the first of the four stages of enlightenment in Theravada Buddhism, preceding the once-returner, the non-returner, and the arhat.
Buddhist nuns [prompt on “nuns” or “monastics”; do not accept “women”]
Theravada [or Hinayana]
stream-enterer [or stream-entrant; or stream-winner; or srotapanna]
During this event, the central participant was offered wine, honey, and milk, and chose the milk. For 10 points each:
Name this event that consisted of two parts, the Isra and the Mir’aj, and took place with the aid of al-Bur’aq.
One of these objects called Sidrat al-Muntaha lay at the end of the seven heavens that Muhammad visited during the Night Journey. In the Qur’an, the Garden of Eden only contains one of these objects that grants eternal life and does not contain one that grants knowledge of good and evil.
On his way back from meeting with Allah, Muhammad passed by Moses in the sixth heaven and Moses recommended that he return to ask for this favor. Muhammad successfully made this request four times in a row.
the Night Journey of Muhammad
tree
reducing the number of daily prayers [accept descriptive equivalents]
This text’s main sources include similar works by Jean de Mailly and Bartholomew of Trent. For 10 points each:
Name this hagiographical collection by Jacobus de Voragine that was hugely popular during the Middle Ages.
According to the Golden Legend, a knight healed this saint’s gout using a poultice of wheat flour, plantain juice, and cow’s milk. The men carrying this saint’s coffin followed a milkmaid to the site that became Durham Cathedral.
The Golden Legend claims that Pope Sylvester I sealed the mouth of one of these creatures that had been living in a pit and poisoning the Roman people with its breath. St. George is often depicted slaying one of these creatures.
Golden Legend
Saint Cuthbert
dragons
Answer some questions about how Catholics celebrate the Christmas season, for 10 points each:
The liturgical colors change to violet and rose for this four-week period that immediately precedes Christmas.
In this country, the sighting of the Star of Bethlehem on Christmas Eve precedes a traditional supper called Wigilia and a unique type of Midnight Mass called Pasterka.
This feast day immediately follows the Twelve Days of Christmas and begins the next liturgical season. This feast day commemorates the visit of the Magi and the baptism of Jesus in the Jordan River.
Advent
Poland
Epiphany [or Theopany; or Three Kings Day]
This passage is very difficult to translate because it is written using only nouns and adjectives. For 10 points each:
Name this passage written in the Gurmukhi script that begins with the phrase “Ik Onkar,” or “God is one.”
The Mul Mantar precedes the Japji Sahib prayer in the opening Shabad of this text, which is recited nonstop over a period of 48 hours in the Akhand Path ritual.
The Adi Granth is the tenth and final guru of this religion, whose members take the last name Kaur or Singh.
Mul Mantar
Adi Granth [or Guru Granth Sahib]
Sikhism
This text relates a wisdom contest in which one monk says the mind is a mirror that needs polishing to remove dust and his opponent retorts that because the mind is emptiness, there is nowhere for dust to gather. For 10 points each:
Name this sutra that unusually contains autobiographical elements, albeit apocryphal ones, relating the story of the transmission of the dharma from Hongren to Huineng and from Huineng to his disciples.
Huineng was the sixth patriarch of this sect of Buddhism, whose members seek enlightenment through personal insight, aided by meditation and contemplation of koans.
This “blue-eyed barbarian” was the first patriarch of Zen Buddhism. This man steadfastly refused to allow Huike to become his apprentice until Huike cut off his own arm and gave it to this man to prove his devotion.
Platform Sutra of the Sixth Patriarch
Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]
Bodhidharma
In art this archangel of wisdom is typically depicted as carrying either an open flame or a book in one hand.
Name this angel, who apocryphally rescued John the Baptist from being murdered by Herod's men. Typically, either he or Camael is represented as the angel with the flaming sword who expelled Adam and Eve from Eden.
In the Torah, an angel with a flaming sword blocks the path of this man down the road. This son of Beor informed king Balak on how to make the Israelites curse themselves.
The animal owned by Balaam that was able to see the angel with the flaming sword was this kind of quadruped. In Matthew, Jesus rides into Jerusalem on the back of one of these animals.
Uriel
Balaam [or Bil'am]
donkey [or ass; or onager]
Angels of this kind are typically referred to as "Angel of the Lord" in English, rendering it ambiguous as to whether it's the same one making an appearance in each passage.
Name this kind of angel, whose name means "messenger" in various Semitic tongues.
This angel is a very common messenger in Abrahamic religions. He appears to the Virgin Mary to tell her to not be afraid when she is pregnant with Jesus.
Gabriel also appeared to Muhammad during this event, during which Gabriel began revealing the Qur'an verse by verse. This event is one of the events celebrated during the month of Ramadan.
malakim [or malaa'ikah; or mala'ikt]
Gabriel [or Jibril]
Laylat al-Qadr [or the Night of Power]
Owls and vultures reside with Lilith in a burned, deserted kingdom mentioned in this book, which the New Testament alludes to more than any other book of the Old Testament.
Name this book that predicts the coming of the "Suffering Servant," who is usually taken to refer to Jesus. This first major prophetic book also includes a warning against King Hezekiah and a plea for Judah to embrace God.
Isaiah uses this phrase to describe the herald of the Messiah, interpreted as being John the Baptist. This phrase is echoed in the Gospels and is followed by an injunction to "prepare the way of the Lord."
Isaiah's vision of the peaceable kingdom includes a prophecy of this action. As a consequence of this specific action, "nation will not take up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more."
Book of Isaiah
a voice crying out in the wilderness [accept any similar answers such as the voice of one crying out in the wilderness; anything with "voice" and "wilderness" or "desert" should be acceptable; if someone says vox clamantis in deserto, accept it and compliment them for the Dartmouth reference]
people beating their swords to ploughshares [accept any similar answers; accept people beating their spears to pruning hooks or similar answers; prompt on non-specific answers like "destroying weapons" or "making farm implements"]
Answer some questions about periods of fasting in the Eastern Orthodox Church,
The most important fasting time is this 40-day period stretching from Clean Monday till the vigil on Easter churches. In Western Christianity, this period begins on Ash Wednesday.
A two-week fast precedes this Orthodox holiday, which commemorates the death of the Theotokos. An Epitaphios of Mary is paraded on this holiday.
Besides Lent and the Dormition, the other two main fasts are the Nativity Fast, and this fast, which honors the fast that the title group observed for the ten days after Christ's Ascension, in preparation for receiving the Holy Spirit.
Great Lent [or Tessaracoste]
Dormition of the Virgin [or Koimesis Theotokos; or Uspenie Presvetia Bogoroditsi]
Apostles' Fast [or Fast of the Holy Apostles; or Fast of Peter and Paul; or St. Peter's Fast]
The Talmud prohibits this form of mystical speculation to any accept those wise enough to understand it without explanation.
Name this form of mystical speculation based in Ezekiel's vision of the divine chariot, which shares its name with the four worlds of a later system of mystical thought.
This later system of mystical thought is based on the Zohar. Its "Lurianic" form introduced the concept of radical "self-withdrawal" on the part of divinity to create the world.
This is the name given to the attributes or emanations through which Ein Sof operates in the world. In Lurianic Kabbalah they are seen as receptacles for the divine emanation which were shattered at creation.
Merkavah mysticism [or Merkabah mysticism]
Kabbalah
Sephirot
If these are not performed during a marriage, the marriage ends at death.
Give the name for these Mormon rituals, performed in order to make family relationships possible throughout eternity. They are typically performed between spouses or between parents and their children.
Some Mormons also controversially perform this ritual on dead people by immersing living people in water on behalf of the deceased.
Only members of this greater of the two Mormon male priesthoods who have undergone the Endowment may perform baptism on dead people. This priesthood is named for a king of Salem.
sealings
baptism
Melchizedek priesthood
The principal figure of this sect was mythically trained under Lokesvararjara.
Name this sect introduced to China by the Donglin Temple and to Japan by the monk Honen.
Followers of Pure Land Buddhism perform this action, which is the recitation of the name of the Amitabha Buddha.
Pure Land Buddhism is a sect of this "Greater Vehicle" sect of Buddhism, which also encompasses Shingon, Tendai, and Zen.
Pure Land Buddhism
nianfo [or nembutsu; or yeombul; or niem Phat]
Mahayana Buddhism
In South Asia, members of this denomination perform musical poetry called qawwali. And six suprasensory organs called the lataif-e-sitta are distinguished by this sect.
Name this Muslim denomination whose turuq include the Bektashi and Mevlevi orders., and which emphasizes mystical practices like the whirling performed by dervishes.
The Darqawa order led a revival of ascetic Sufism in this country, which Clifford Geertz contrasted with Indonesia in Islam Observed. Fatima al-Fihri founded the madrasa al-Karaouine in this country in 859.
Many Muslims in the Maghreb undertake pilgrimages to the tombs of these Sufi leaders, who originally lived in monastic fortresses called ribats. These possess high levels of baraka and effectively serve as saints.
Sufism [or taṣawwuf]
Kingdom of Morocco [or Al-Mamlakah al-Maġribiyah]
marabouts [accept pious ones]
In South Asia, members of this denomination perform musical poetry called qawwali. And six suprasensory organs called the lataif-e-sitta are distinguished by this sect.
Name this Muslim denomination whose turuq include the Bektashi and Mevlevi orders., and which emphasizes mystical practices like the whirling performed by dervishes.
The Darqawa order led a revival of ascetic Sufism in this country, which Clifford Geertz contrasted with Indonesia in Islam Observed. Fatima al-Fihri founded the madrasa al-Karaouine in this country in 859.
Many Muslims in the Maghreb undertake pilgrimages to the tombs of these Sufi leaders, who originally lived in monastic fortresses called ribats. These possess high levels of baraka and effectively serve as saints.
Sufism [or taṣawwuf]
Kingdom of Morocco [or Al-Mamlakah al-Maġribiyah]
marabouts [accept pious ones]
 Identify some components of pujas, the Hindu celebrations honoring the gods. 
Pujas often involve this ceremony in which devotees wave their hand over a lighted lamp or plate containing small lamps. 
Though Aarti lamps may burn camphor, they most often burn this substance, the Indian form of clarified butter.
This is the Hindu term for a vision or manifestation of the divine. During a puja, a devotee might be expected to experience this after touching the feet of a murti or a guru. 
aarti
ghee
Darsana [or Darshan]
This figure wears the Ring of the Fisherman and a cloak called the mantum and once donned a special tiara. 
Name this leader of the Holy See elected by conclaves of the College of Cardinals. Celestine V and Benedict XVI are the only people to resign from this position, whose current holder is Francis.
As Bishop of Rome, the pope has an ecclesiastical seat at this oldest major basilica, which is located near a former papal palace that has hosted four ecumenical councils. This basilica allegedly contains Peter and Paul's heads.
The Lateran Palace contains this wood-and-marble structure, which pilgrims climb on their knees to obtain plenary indulgences. During the Passion, Jesus stood on this structure, which was brought to Rome by St. Helena.
 the pope [or Bishop of Rome; or il Papa; accept papacy]
Papal (Arch)basilica of St. John Lateran [or (Arci)basilica di San Giovanni in Laterano; or Sacrosancta Papalis Archibasilica Maior Sanctissimi Salvatoris et Sanctorum Iohannis Baptistae et Evangelistae apud Lateranum, omnium Urbis et orbis ecclesiarum Mater et Caput]
Scala Sancta [accept Holy Stairs or Holy Staircase; accept Scala Pilati or Stairs of Pilate or anything else indicating it's a staircase related to Pontius Pilate]
Answer the following about modern political Catholicism.
Prominent figures in this Catholic political movement include Ã“scar Romero and Juan Luis Segundo. This predominantly Latin American movement emphasizes the uplifting of the poor and has been criticized as a form of Christianized Marxism.
Most forms of Catholic economic doctrine draw on this encyclical, which discusses the "Rights and Duties of Capital and Labor" and rejects both communism and capitalism.
This ideology founded by LÃ©on Degrelle and advocated by JosÃ© Streel claimed to promote Catholic social doctrine, but was vigorously opposed by Cardinal Jozef-Ernst van Roey.
liberation theology
Rerum Novarum
Rexism [accept Rexist Party; accept Partite Rexiste; accept Rexisme]
The Deobandi and Barelwi movements belong to this school. 
Name this oldest and largest school of Sunni jurisprudence, predominant in South and Central Asia, the Balkans, and Turkey. It puts a strong emphasis on reason and is named for the teacher of Abu Yusuf.
Experts in Islamic jurisprudence are known by this term, typically translated as "jurist". These people rely on the Qur'an, sunnah, ijma, and qiyas to make their decisions.
The concept of velayat-e faqih, or guardianship of the jurist, is a central concept in this country's constitution. This country is currently led by the Islamic scholar, Ali Khamenei.
Hanafi school
faqih [do NOT accept "fiqh", which refers to the concept, not the person]
Islamic Republic of Iran [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran]
Some Orthodox Jews perform this action on young boys at the tomb of Shimon Bar Yochai in Meron on a certain day. 
Name this action that, along with instrumental music and celebratory parties, is forbidden during a certain period of semi-mourning. 
A boy's first haircut in honor of Shimon Bar Yochai is performed on the 33rd day of this 49-day period of semi-mourning, which commences on the second day of Passover. 
One stops counting the Omer on this day, on which the Torah was received and which is sometimes called Pentecost, because it is the 50th day. On this holiday, is customary to eat dairy, including delicious cheesecake
 getting a haircut [accept obvious equivalents; anti-prompt on "shaving"]
the Omer
Shavuot
Members of this sect refer to themselves as muwahhidun, or monotheists, and conversion to or from this faith is prohibited. For 10 points each:
Name this Lebanon-based sect whose members are allowed to openly deny their faith in times of persecution if their lives are in danger.
Those who are allowed to fully participate in Druze religious services and know Druze doctrine belong to this highest level of the Druze faith. They are contrasted with the ignorant members of the faith known as juhhal.
The symbol of the Druze is a star with this many points. This is also the number of wounds suffered by Christ during the crucifixion.
Druze [or Duruz; or Darazi]
uqqal [or aqil]
five
The three weeks leading up to this holiday are known as the "Three Weeks," and this holiday has been referred to as "the saddest day in Jewish history." For 10 points each:
Name this holiday in which Jews fast to commemorate the destruction of the First and Second Temples of Jerusalem.
Tisha B'av also honors the occurrence of this effort, which saw the destruction of the city of Betar.
On Tisha B'av, traditional reading of The Book of Lamentations is often followed by the reading of these elegies mourning Jewish tragedies.
Tisha B'av [or Ninth of Av]
Bar Kokhba’s Revolt
kinnot [or kinnos; or kinoth]
Name these components of Catholic mass, for 10 points each.
This prayer chant typically takes place following the Act of Penitence and before the Gloria hymn, but is sometimes replaced by the act of sprinkling known as aspersion. It is the rough Greek transliteration for "lord have mercy."
The blood and body of Christ are distributed during this rite towards the end of mass. The preface to this act includes the Sanctus acclamation that states "Hosanna in the highest" and the priest breaking the host during the "lamb of god" litany.
During the act of penitence in Roman Rite masses, this prayer is used to express the confession of sins to a variety of holy figures, including John the Baptist and the Archangel Michael. It's named for its first word in Latin.
Kyrie eleison
Eucharist [or Holy Communion]
Confiteor 
This man’s letters to John Calvin eventually resulted in Calvin deciding to arrest him while he was staying in Geneva. For 10 points each:
Name this Protestant theologian, who was put on trial by the henchmen of John Calvin. Obviously, this man lost the trial and was then condemned to death by burning on a stake.
Michael Servetus was an adherent of this heretical view, which in various forms is held by Arians, Unitarians, and Macedonian heretics. Sir Issac Newton was also an adherent of this view.
John Calvin later went on to sign the Consensus Tigurinus with this man, who was the successor of Zwingli as head of the Zurich Church.
Michael Servetus
Anti-Trinitarianism [accept anything about denying the trinity or about Non-Nicean or Anti-Nicean Christianity]
Heinrich Bullinger
For 10 points each, name some syncretic religions. 
This Vietnamese religion with its own pope has 2-3 million followers and has many prominent French figures as saints.
This syncretic religion, founded in Japan by Masaharu Taniguchi in 1930, combines elements from Buddhism, Christianity, and Shintoism. Its name means "The Home of Infinite Life and Progress" and it boasts around eight hundred thousand followers.
This syncretic religion founded by Akbar the Great was an attempt to reconcile the religious differences of his subjects and blended elements from Islam, Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Jainism, and Christianity. Unfortunately for Akbar, it only ever numbered 19 adherents.
Cao Dai
Seicho-no-Ie
Din-e Ilahi [or Ilahism]
This deity may have originally been a war god in a pantheon led by El, and at times the goddess Asherah was considered a consort of this god, and even had an object of worship in this god's temple. For 10 points each:
Name this Semitic deity whose epithets include "The Lord of Hosts"
The Lord of Hosts dwelt within this mobile tent when the Israelites were wandering the desert. This term also names the part of a Catholic church where communion wafers are stored.
In Pre-Islamic times, Allah shared the Kaaba with this Nabatean god worshipped by the Quraysh tribe. The statue of this god in the Kaaba was used for divination.
Name this Semitic deity whose epithets include "The Lord of Hosts"
Tabernacle
Hubal
Some of these places contain a Mechtizah, which is a curtain that separates seating for both men and women. For 10 points each:
Identify these places of worship whose daily readings are kept in a closet known as an Aron Kodesh. Those daily readings are then carefully placed on a Bimah, and the letters on the readings can only be touched with a Yad
Synagogues also contain these storage centers where the writings of the Jewish community are kept. A massive one was discovered in the 1880's in Cairo and contained over 300,000 letters.
Most of the documents found at the Cairo Genizah were deciphered by this man, who laid the foundations for Conservative Judaism in the US. This man also served as the second president of the Jewish Theological Seminary.
Synagogue [prompt on Temple]
Genizah
Solomon Schechter
Members of this religion added the suffix "-ody" to their names, and the goal of this faith was to become "Next Level", which required abandoning all ties to Earth. For 10 points each:
Name this New Age religion whose followers left Earth via a spacecraft trailing Comet Hale-Bopp after they committed mass suicide in 1997.
Heaven's Gate was founded by this man, who had a religious awakening following a near-death experience in the early 1970's.
Applewhite believed that he was one of the "two witnesses" mentioned in Chapter 11 of the Book of Revelation, which more famously predicts this event. After this event, the Kingdom of God will be proclaimed on Earth and the Ark of the Covenant will appear in the Temple. It is preceded by several similar events whose purpose is to warn sinners to repent.
Heaven's Gate
Marshall Applewhite
the seventh trumpet [do not accept seventh seal]
Adherents of this tradition included Saint Colombanus, who spread it on the Continent, and their unique customs included private penance, long-haired monks, and a distinct way to calculate Easter. For 10 points each:
Name this independent tradition that developed on a certain island in the Early Middle Ages, whose relics include the Book of Kells.
Monks from Ireland established this monastery off the west coast of Scotland in 563. It is from here that the Picts and Scots were first evangelized.
The secular side of life in early medieval Ireland was governed by this traditional code of laws, which was mostly oral. This code takes its name from the judges who enforced it.
Celtic Christianity [or Irish Christianity; or Hibero-Christianity; or Insular Christianity]
Iona Abbey
Brehon Law 
These entities lack free will and serve as the messengers of Allah. For 10 points each:
Name these beings from Islam, the most notable of which is Jibreel, who delivered the Koran to the Prophet Muhammad.
Angels are beings made out of this substance, which makes them different from humans or Jinn.
This angel will blow a trumpet to announce the Islamic Judgment Day. He is the Islamic equivalent of Raphael.
angels [or mala'ikah; or malak]
light
Israfil [or Israfel]
Members of this religion reject the existence of physical reality, arguing that only the mind exists. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian denomination, founded in the late 19th century, which argues that the Bible was allegorical, and whose written works include a list of the true meaning of common words found in the Old and New Testament.
That so-called "Key to the Scriptures", along with "Science and Health" are major sections of an 1875 book by this woman, the founder of Christian Science.
Christian Scientists believe that the mind can be used to harm others, a practice they call by this name, which they borrowed from Mesmerism. The so-called "Second Salem Witch Trials" of 1878 came about when an early Christian Scientist accused a rival of this practice.
Christian Science 
Mary Baker Eddy
Malicious Animal Magnetism [or MAM]
A person who uses this device is called a Ba'al Tq'iah or a Tokea. For 10 points each:
Name this device, used to announce the Jewish New Year.
While the shofar must be made from the horn of an animal, there is no restriction on the type of animal, and even a non-kosher animal may be used. The animal does not even have to be slaughtered through this type of ritual slaughter that is otherwise required for kosher meat.
The shofar is blown before and after this service, which the Reform movement omits. On Shabbat, it comes immediately after the Torah service. In Orthodox Judaism, it is still debated whether women are obligated to pray this service and on Shabbat, this service generally includes Ein Keloheinu and Aleinu.
shofar 
schechita 
Mussaf 
This ceremony must be preceded by a ghusl, or ceremonial full body washing, and the person at the center of the ceremony must be wrapped in a kafan, or plain white cloth. For 10 points each:
Name this ceremony, which in Islam as in Judaism must be done quickly.
In Islam, this prayer for the dead uttered at a funeral. According to tradition, all Muslims everywhere will be held accountable if this prayer is not said by at least one person for each deceased Muslim.
Prior to reciting the Janazah, as prior to reciting any formal prayer, Muslims must undertake the partial cleansing ritual of Wudu, which ends with washing this part of the body. Catholics wash this part of the body on Holy Thursday. 
burials [or funerals]
Salat al-Janazah
feet 
Zoroastrians engage in this practice to avoid disrupting the Holy Fire, and Jains engage in it to avoid killing flying insects. For 10 points each:
Name this ritual, which many African tribes engage in to take on the identity of another person or hide their own identity.
Masks were traditionally worn by Buddhists performing this ritual, done to fend off beings called oni. In Islam, this ritual involves reading the Throne Verse and is done to foil Iblis.
In some Japanese villages, it is traditional to wear masks made to resemble these demon-like creatures, who are notable for their long, phallic noses and their red skin.
wearing a mask
exorcism
Tengu
Commentary onName this compiled Jewish oral law, originally taught by scholars called Tannaim. this body of law is known as the Gemara. For 10 points each:
Name this compiled Jewish oral law, originally taught by scholars called Tannaim.
Together, the Mishnah and the Gemara make up the Talmud, of which there are two versions, one from Jerusalem and one from this city, home to the Rav.
This term is given to Jewish scholars who compiled the Gemara, which consists of their commentary on Jewish oral law.
Mishnah
Babylon [or Bavil]
Amoraim [or Amora]
The Catholic, Orthodox, and Anglican churches all make this a prerequisite for valid ordination. For 10 points each:
Name this requirement, which states that priests can only be ordained by those who can trace their ordination back in an unbroken chain to the original disciples of Christ.
One of the first writers to make a big deal of Apostolic Succession was this North African theologian of the second and third centuries, also the first to use the word "trinity". He is not a saint, because he died as an adherent of the Montanist heresy.
Many Christian churches in Asia, such as the Assyrian Church of the East and the Chaldean Catholic Church, claim that this Apostle ordained their first leaders. This apostle is said to have been martyred in India.
Apostolic Succession
Tertullian
Saint Thomas
One member of this denomination, Andreas Osiander, arranged for the posthumous publication of Copernicus's On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian denomination whose beliefs are summarized in the Augsburg Confession, written by Philipp Melanchton.
Early during the Reformation, the Lutherans strongly separated themselves from radicals such as this Anabapist who became involved in the Peasants War and was captured at the Battle of Frankenhausen.
This 1660 book, originally published in Dutch, is a history of those killed or persecuted for their belief in Anabaptism. This book is still popular with Mennonites, who often place a copy of it next to their Bibles. 
Lutherans 
Thomas Muntzer 
Martyrs Mirror [or The Bloody Theater]
The Gelug branch of this religion uses Atisa's concept of Lamrim, unlike the Kagyu school of it. For 10 points each:
Identify this branch of a certain world religion that believes the original position of the mind is termed "Dzogchen" which means "pure perfection" and whose followers use prayer wheels.
Tibetan Buddhism is championed by Tenzin Gyatso, the fourteenth and current one of these figures, a role whose name is derived from the Mongolian word for "Ocean."
Buddhism was first introduced into Tibet by this emperor, who founded the empire of Tibet. He was held to be a reincarnation of the bodhisattva of infinite compassion, Avalokitesvara.
Tibetan Buddhism [prompt on Buddhism, accept Yellow Hat Buddhism; accept equivalents that mention Tibet and Buddhism, do not accept or prompt on Chinese Buddhism]
Dalai Lamas [because we are being generous, prompt on "Lamas" or "Dalai"]
SongtsÃ¤n Gampo
Examples include Ori, who represents the spirit of human consciousness. For 10 points each:
Name these spirits of Yoruba religion that are also worshipped in Yoruba derived religions like SanterÃ­a.
This Orisha is Lord of the Sea, and is particularly revered by the descendants of slaves who crossed the Atlantic Ocean.
Practitioners of SanterÃ­a conduct sacrifices to obtain this life force, which they believe can be found in sacrificial blood. Orishas in turn serve as the conduit for that force.
Orishas 
Olokun
Ashe [or Ache or Axe or Ase]
Answer the following about a pillar of Islam, for 10 points each.
This pillar's name means "that which purifies" and is the giving of alms.
Zakat often acts as a sort of tax, as it is most often given to the government. Non-Muslims are not required to pay a zakat, but instead must pay this tax.
The amount of one's income given to zakat varies, but usually hovers around 2.5 percent. Shiites, however, are also expected to pay one-fifth of their income under this practice, which originally applied only to spoils of war, or ghanim.
zakat
jizya
khums
This text contains the Testimony of the Eight Witnesses, who supposedly saw the source of this text. For 10 points each:
Name this religious text which states in one section that the "scales of darkness" will fall from the Lamanites and they will be a "white and a delightsome people."
Joseph Smith supposedly used plates made of this material as the source of the Book of Mormon. A calf constructed from this material was made by Aaron during the absence of Moses in the Bible.
This section of the Book of Mormon is named after the first and chief judge over the Nephi. The title figure of this section asks many rhetorical questions to the people of Zarahemla.
Book of Mormon
gold
The Book of Alma: The Son of Alma
Answer the following about religous hand signs, for 10 points each.
In Eastern Orthodoxy, the Old Believers insist on using only two fingers for this gesture. In Catholicism it accompanies the words "Patris," "Filii," and "Spiritūs Sancti" with an up-down-left-right motion.
This class of Jews has a sacred V-shaped hand sign made by spacing the middle and ring fingers, like Spock. During a Torah service, one of these descendants of Aaron is called up first, before a Levite.
Tantra recognizes 108 of these sacred Indian gestures, most of which are performed with the hands.
the sign of the cross [or signum crucis; or making a cross; or crossing oneself]
kohanim [or kohens; prompt Jewish priests]
mudras [or chakgya]
This person derives his abilities from contact with Orunmila and may compete for clients with an oriate. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of Santeria priest, a "father of mystery" who uses palm nuts for divination.
Babalawo provide access to the will of these Santeria deities or spirits, including Shango and Erinle.
Babalawos and oriates are just some of the many specialized roles within this general system of Yoruba and Santeria divination.
babalawo
orishas
Ifa
In Turkey, a dish containing nuts and fruits called "Noah's Pudding" is consumed on this day, which traditionally falls on the day that Noah's ark made landfall. For 10 points each:
Name this commemoration of the Battle of Karbala and the martyrdom of Husayn. In most other countries, this Muslim holiday is commemorated with mourning.
Ashura is primarily celebrated by this group of Muslims, who believe that Ali and his descendants were Muhammad's rightful successors.
In some nations, the Day of Ashura is marked by this practice, in which a mourner strikes him or herself with a sword or knife until the head begins to bleed. In India, practitioners use heavy chains to cut open their backs.
Day of Ashura
Shia Islam [or Shi'ite; antiprompt on Ismailis, Twelvers, Seveners or any other names for specific subgroups of Shiites]
tatbir [or zanjeer; or zanjeer zani]
Answer the following about vestment colors in the Catholic Church, for 10 points each.
One of the rarest colors of vestments is pink, worn only optionally on one Lenten Sunday and Gaudete Sunday, the third Sunday of this preparatory season for Christmas.
The color red is used for the feasts of martyrs, as well as Palm Sunday, Good Friday, and this feast which celebrates the descent of the Holy Spirit.
The color green is used to represent this liturgical season, which is divided into two parts, the first spanning from the end of the Christmas season until Ash Wednesday, and the second from the end of the Easter season until the feast of Christ the King.
Advent 
Pentecost 
Ordinary Time 
The prologue to this work begins by saying the author desires to placing something into the guardhouse of the Lord's treasury, a reference to Luke 21:2 and Mark 12:42. For 10 points each:
Identify this work by an Archbishop of Paris that was later subdivided into 85 "Distinctions."
The Sentences were subdivided, arranged and popularized by Alexander of Hales, but they're still known as a work of this man, who quite reasonably got the nickname Magister Sententiarum.
One of the apparent inspirations for the systematic approach Lombard took in Sentences was Sic et Non, a work by this man who had a pretty calamitous life.
The Sentences [or Sententiarum or Four Books of Sentences]
Peter Lombard 
Peter Abelard 
In this text, the parable of the burning house explains that the three vehicles are only expedient means, and Manjushri and Maitreya discuss a light coming from a Buddha's brow in the Sphere of Limitless Means. For 10 points each:
Name this popular sutra, the basis of the Tiantai school of Buddhism, which posits that the Buddha is an eternal being.
The Lotus Sutra is also the basis of this school of Buddhism, which emphasizes that all creatures have an innate Buddha-nature and venerates the Shakyamuni Buddha.
The Lotus Sutra is especially influential in this "greater ferry" of Buddhism, which also includes the Zen and Pure Land schools and is contrasted with Theravada.
The Lotus Sutra of the Wonderful Law [or Sutra on the White Lotus of the Sublime Dharma; or Sanddharma Pundarika Sutra]
Nichiren Buddhism [or Nichiren-kei sho shuha]
Mahayana 
Name the following parables of Christ, for 10 points each.
Luke 10:25 to 37 relays this parable, in which a priest and a Levite ignore an injured man but the title Levantine man comes to the man's aid.
Christ tells the reapers to gather the title plants to burn them, but to bring the wheat to Christ's barn, in this parable about a field sowed with both wheat and weeds.
Five of the title figures have brought sufficient oil for their lamps to await the tardy bridegroom; the five that have not are thus absent trying to purchase oil when the groom arrives.
Parable of the Good Samaritan
Parable of the Wheat and the Tares [prompt on Parable of the Wheat and Weeds]
Parable of the Ten Virgins [or Parable of the Wise and Foolish Virgins] 
This act may not be done to save one's own life at the expense of another's. For 10 points each, 
Name this Islamic term, which refers to the suppression of outwards signs of one's faith in order to avoid persecution or arrest.
Taqiyya is a central component of this monotheistic religion, which split off from Islam. Adherents of this faith deny their membership to outsiders and adopt the habits of the dominant religion in their area. Their sacred text is the Kitab Al-Hikma, or Epistle of Wisdom, and they wear baggy pants that become tight at the ankles. 
While the Druze avoid almost all forms of iconography, this geometric, multicolored symbol is permitted. Its components stand for The Universal Mind, The Universal Soul, The Word, The Cause, and the Effect
Taqiyya 
Druze 
Five-pointed Star 
Members of this religion follow a code of rules called the Vendidad. For 10 points each:
Name this dualistic religion which pits Ahura Mazda against Angra Mainyu.
Most Zoroastrian religious ceremonies involve reciting the yasnas, but on the six annual gahambar holidays these additional verses are also read as part of a special ceremony named for them. 
Gahambars and other Zoroastrian holidays can be celebrated in this Zoroastrian house of worship, which are divided into three grades: Dadgah, Adaran, and Behram. Surprisingly, they must be built near fresh water.
Zoroastrianism
Visperad 
fire temples
Answer the following about a certain religion, for 10 points each:
Mambos lead prayer in hounforts in this syncretic religion where loas are subservient to a creator god, Bondiye, who was later associated with the Biblical God.
While mambo is used for a female priest, this term is used for a male priest. They have ranks known as asogwe and sur pwen.
A Houngan who practices black magic is given this name, translated as "sorcerer." It is this type of priest who is capable of raising a zombie.
Voodoo
Houngan
bokor
Members of this group of deities include a Mercury-like figure who leads the dead in different directions, and a messenger for the Sun's rays. For 10 points each:
Name this family of serpentine deities in Voodoo, which preside over magic, rain, and clairvoyance.
The most notable Voodoo Loa, or god, may be this loa of the dead. He is commonly depicted with a top hat and dark glasses. As a sometimes sex god, he chases after mortal women despite being married to Maman Brigitte. 
These two related loas, considered the first children of Supreme God Bondye, are both male and female. They embody contradictions in the Voodoo faith. 
Simbi
Baron Samedi
Marassa twins
Identify some things you might hear a Muslim say for 10 points each.
This phrase, which states "There is no god but Allah and Mohammad is his prophet," contains the central belief of Islam. Reciting this phrase is typically the requirement for converting to Islam.
When mentioning the name of Mohammad, Muslims generally parenthetically add this phrase. Either English or Arabic is fine.
Apart from the ninth sura, this phrase is recited just before every prayer and verse from the Quran. It translates to "in the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful."
shahada
peace be upon him [or May Allah honor him and grant him peace; or May Allah grant peace and honor to him and his family; pbuh; or alayhi s-salam; or AS; or sall allahu alayhi-wa-sallam; or SAAW; or SAW; or SAAS; or sall allahu alayhi wa-alih]
bismillah [or bismillahi r-raḥmani r-raḥimi; or basmala]
The founder of this heresy had female assistants named Priscilla and Maximilla, and claimed to be receiving new prophetic revelations from the Holy Spirit. For 10 points each:
Name this early Christian heresy centered in Phrygia in the 2nd century AD, centered on the belief that the Holy Spirit would possess and speak through its followers.
This leading Christian theologian of the 2nd century became a Montanist in his old age. He is more famous for first coining the word "trinity".
Another early Christian saint was this Egyptian, who promoted monasticism and became the first ascetic monk by moving into the desert.
Montanism
 Tertullian
Saint Anthony the Great [or Saint Anthony of Egypt]
In 1993, members of this religion won a Supreme Court case that allowed them to conduct animal sacrifice. For 10 points each:
Name this Yoruban-inspired syncretic religion popular in Cuba.
If and when the Temple is rebuilt, some Jews may again engage in this sacrifice ritual, the dedication of burnt offerings to God in the Temple. This ritual often involved animal sacrifice
Perhaps the most sacred ritual in Vedic Hinduism, and possibly in Proto-Indo-European culture, was this royal horse sacrifice.
Santeria 
korbanot
Ashvamedha 
The right side of this painting depicts three figures in the foreground, including Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimethea. For 10 points each:
Name this small painting by Piero della Francesca, which may symbolize the assassination of Oddantonio da Montefeltro. Its left side portrays a courtyard where its title figure is tied to a column and scourged.
The Flagellation of Christ depicts this man sitting down on the left watching the whipping. Renaissance artists often painted him in the act of washing his hands.
Piero's version of this scene depicts Christ wearing a pink robe and holding a white banner marked with a red cross. The version of this scene in the Isenheim altarpiece depicts Christ raising his hands in front of a massive sun.
The Flagellation of Christ
Pontius Pilate
Resurrection of Christ
This event is not found in the synoptic gospels and is found only on chapter 2 of John. For 10 points each,
Name this event at which Jesus performed his first miracle by changing water into wine.
Wine was enjoyed not just by the guests at Cana, but also by this group of Hussites, who took their name from the belief that all believers should be given both wine and bread when celebrating the Eucharist.
This Bohemian follower of Jan Hus founded the Utraquist movement in 1415, and is still considered one of the finest Utraquist theologians.
the Wedding at Cana 
Utraquists 
Jacob of Mies 
In Orthodox and Conservative synagogues, this ceremony is often accompanied by songs and dancing. For 10 points each:
Name this ceremony in which Jews remove Torah scrolls from the ark and parade them around the sanctuary seven times. Its name literally means "rejoicing with the Torah".
Simchat Torah is performed after this famous Jewish holiday, known as the Feast of Tabernacles. Jews make and live in booths during this holiday.
On Sukkot, this set of plants was brought to the temple and waved, a practice that continues today.
Simchat Torah
Sukkot 
the four species [or arba'at ha-minim]
These occurrences are also known as Purnimas [POOR-nima], and one of these celebrates the birth of the Buddha. For 10 points each:
Identify these monthly occurrences which mark the end of the Shukla paksha or the bright phase.
A harvest festival that falls on a full moon night is this one, which celebrates Prahlada's destruction of a demon. You may be more familiar with the subsequent day of this festival, which involves throwing lots of color.
Another festival occurring on a full moon night is this one, in which sisters tie a ceremonial thread on their brothers' hands and brothers promise to protect their sisters.
full moon nights of the Hindu calendar.
Holi [or Phalgun purnima; or Dhulendi; or Dhulandi; or Holika Dahan]
Rakhi purnima [or Raksha bandhan; or Shravan Purnima]
Identify the following Zoroastrian texts, for 10 points each.
 This set of hymns, the oldest found in the Yasna and the Avesta, are believed to have been written by Zoroaster himself and are considered the most sacred hymns of Zoroastrianism.
This text, which begins "I declare myself a Mazda-worshiper", is the official creed of Zoroastrianism.
Much of what we know about Zoroastrianism comes from this 10th century text, written after the Islamic conquest, which documents the beliefs and practices of the Mazda-worshippers. It is something like an official encyclopedia of Zoroastrianism.
Gathas 
Fravarane 
Denkard 
This verse is found within the famous sura of the cow. For 10 points each:
Name this most famous and widely memorized verse of the Koran, which describes how the power of Allah extends over heaven and earth.
The sura of the cow is also notable for stating that there is no compulsion in religion and that nobody can be forced to be a Muslim. That belief led to the formation of this poll tax on non-Muslims.
Muslims believe not only that Allah has power over heaven and earth, but also that he possesses this quality, often translated as "oneness" but also encompassing the concept of uniqueness.
throne verse [prompt on "Al-Baqra 255"]
jizya 
tawhid 
The type of this work named for Archbishop Ebbo shows a man with a winged lion. For 10 points each:
Name this type of illustrated manuscript. A cross appears in the center of the jeweled cover of the Lindau one, while an insular Chi-Rho is depicted on the one from Lindsfarne.
This Irish illuminated Gospel represents the high point of Insular Art. It combines Christian imagery with intricate patterns and Celtic knots. 
This other type of popular illuminated manuscript includes the Utrecht one, which depicts the siege of a city in pen in a similar style to a crucifixion portrayed in the Ramsey one. They begin with a richly embossed Beatus initial and were often used to learn to read.
Gospel books[or Gospels]
the Book of Kells
Psalters
Answer the following about Eastern Orthodox services for 10 points each.
In an Eastern Orthodox church, the altar is separated from worshippers by this ornately decorated structure, a wall filled with depictions of saints and holy figures. Only priests may  walk through its main door.
The liturgy still used at many Orthodox churches dates to this 4th century church father. This famed orator was also a harsh critic of Christians who continued to follow Jewish customs, whom he attacked in Against the Jews.
Eastern Orthodox Christians fast for two weeks in early August to commemorate this Orthodox holiday. It commemorates the death and resurrection of Mary.
iconostasis
 St. John Chrysostom [prompt on "John" or "St. John"]
Feast of the Dormition [accept: Dormition of the Theotokos]
Ahijah the Shilonite prophesied that this man would become a king as punishment for Solomon's worship of pagan gods.  For 10 points each:
Name this son of Nebat who angered the Lord by establishing golden calves in Bethel and Dan, the first king of Israel who was not also the king of Judah.
A "man of God" prophesied to Jeroboam that this future king of Judah would attack the idolatrous practices established by Jeroboam.  This king's repentant response to the priest Hilkiah's discovery of the Book of the Law caused God to postpone the Babylonian Captivity until after his death.
This king of Israel hated Elijah, illicitly obtained the vineyard of Naboth, was killed despite disguising himself in a battle against the Arameans, and was married most famously to the Sidonian princess Jezebel.
Jeroboam
Josiah
Ahab
Name these locations from John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress. For 10 points each: 
Christian is imprisoned in this location, ruled by Beelzebub, in which Faithful is tried by Lord Hate-good.  This location also names a Thackeray novel featuring Amelia Evans and Becky Sharp. 
In the first part of The Pilgrim's Progress, Christian and Pliable get caught in this swamp, into which they begin to sink because of the weight of their sins. 
Christian climbs this summit, on which House Beautiful sits. Formalist and Hypocrisy avoid climbing this summit by taking paths called "Danger" and "Destruction," and suffer predictably terrible results.
Vanity Fair 
The Slough of Despond 
Hill Difficulty 
This man's most infamous idea came to him when he was playing with magnets as a six year old and noticed that they repelled each other. For 10 points each:
Name this man who finished university in Mecca at age 18, and set about his evil plan of creating white people.
The Nation of Islam teaches that Dr. Yakub invented white people on this island, which is most likely where the Book of Revelation was written.
Dr. Yakub was a descendant of this other scientist, who 50,000 years ago led his namesake tribe from the Middle East into Central Africa, where they evolved into modern black people.
Doctor Yakub
Patmos
Shabazz
Answer the following about the most Sunni of Islam branches, Sunni Islam. For 10 points each:
The word "Sunni" comes from the term sunnah, which refers to the practices of Muhammad. Sunnah is frequently synonymous with this term, which refers to the sayings of Muhammad used within Islamic schools of jurisprudence.
Sunni Islam, like other branches, believes in the concept of tawhid, which is a belief in this principle.
This school within Sunni Islam disagrees with the reason-minded Hanafite school and the broader, middle school. This school insists on sticking to the clear meaning of expressions in the Koran and is tradition-focused.
hadith
monotheism [accept things like the only god is Allah, oneness, or other obvious statements]
Zahiri [or Dhahiri]
Name some things about Scientology, none of which is Lord Xenu. For 10 points each:
The basic concept of Scientology is that people have this kind of life force within them that is reborn each time an individual dies. Scientologists measure their "level" of this force.
As part of Dianetics, Scientologists undergo this type of counseling with a bureaucratic name, where they are attached to an E-Meter device, which helps them clear their minds and remember past lives.
Scientologists with a Thetan level of 8 or higher are invited for training on board this cruise ship, which is owned by the Church of Scientology.
thetans 
auditing 
Freewinds 
The Sarajevo one of these texts was likely smuggled out during the Spanish Expulsion, while in America it was often given away by companies to help sell product, such as the Maxwell House edition. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish text which guides readers through the Passover Seder
The last thing to be eaten during a Passover meal is this piece of matzo bread, which is saved for desert at the beginning of the seder
In the Passover song "Chad Gadya," or "One Little Goat," the little goat is eaten by this kind of creature, which is in turn eaten by a dog. Muhammad owned one of these creatures named Muezza. 
Haggadah
Afikoman
cat
The formula for this ceremony consisted of laying on of hands while saying "Yoreh Yoreh Yaddin Yaddin." For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Hebrew ceremony, used for the ordination of a rabbi. 
Semikhah allowed the ordained to make judgments in this field, the general name for Jewish law.
Rabbis began to lose influence in Jewish society because of this 18th-19th century intellectual movement. This Hebrew term is usually translated as the Jewish enlightenment. 
Semikhah
Halakhah
Haskalah
This office has only been held by one person: Pham Cong Tac, who reigned 1934 - 1969. For 10 points each:
Name this ecclesiastical office whose holder is based in the Holy See at Tay Ninh
Inside the Cao Dai Holy See, one can find an enormous metal sphere that represents this part of God's body. This body part is considered the symbol of Cao Dai. 
Cao Dai shares Vietnam with this other religious sect, which is more like Buddhism than Christianity. Like Cao Dai, this sect once had a powerful armed presence. 
Pope of Cao Dai [prompt on "Pope" or on "leader of Cao Dai"]
eye or all-seeing eye
Hoa Hao
This branch of theology frequently cites Isaiah 1:19, "Come now, let us reason together," and it contradicts fideism, which rationalizes that faith is independent of reason. For 10 points each:
Name this field of Christian theology that defends faith with a rational basis for belief. C.S. Lewis's Mere Christianity is one of its seminal texts.
To prove Christ's divinity, Lewis advances this argument, summarized as "Lunatic, Liar, or Lord," in Mere Christianity. It states that Jesus could only have been crazy, working for Satan, or actually divine.
This Notre Dame apologist modified the ontological argument in The Nature of Necessity and added the concept of "reformed epistemology," which supposes that belief in God could be rational and justified even without evidence for God's existence. He also wrote The Free Will Defense and God and Other Minds.
Christian apologetics 
Lewis's trilemma 
Alvin Carl Plantinga 
Answer the following about trees in religion for 10 points each. 
This Jewish holiday is known as the "New Year for trees." It features a seder at which dried fruits and nuts are traditionally eaten.
This fig tree, depicted with heart-shaped leaves, is worshipped as the tree under which the Buddha achieved enlightenment.
This tree is said to have sprouted when Joseph of Arimathea stuck his staff in a hill in England. During the English Civil War, it was cut down by the Roundheads
Tu Bishvat [or Rosh Hashanah La'llanot]
Bodhi tree
Glastonbury Thorn
This figure is said to wield Verethranga, an Indo-Iranian concept which served prominent roles in both Zoroastrian and Vedic religions and translates roughly as "the smiting of resistance." For 10 points each:
Name this figure in Zoroastrianism who initiates the apocalypse called frashokereti and revives the dead at the behest of the benevolent deity. He fights alongside the amesha spentas during frashokereti.
Saoshyant serves as the agent of this chief deity of Zoroastrian, who opposes the evil principal of Angra Mainyu and will welcome all souls into the House of Song after the defeat of all evil at frashokereti.
According to Zoroastrian tradition, this figure was the first human being. And a hermaphrodite. 
Saoshyant 
Ahura Mazda [or Ormuzd; prompt on Mazda]
Gayomart 
Adherents of this idea believe that it proceeds logically from Original Sin. For 10 points each:
Name this Calvinist doctrine according to which man is completely unable to do good or save himself, except by the Grace of God.
Total Depravity was one of the concepts rejected by Jacob Arminius during this dispute, which pitted Calvinists against Arminians in the Dutch Reformed Church. Named for the number of issues under contest, it ended in a Calvinist victory at the Synod of Dort, but Arminianism still lives on among the Methodists.
You can read more about Total Depravity in this book, the major theological work of John Calvin.
Total Depravity
Quinquarticular Controversy [or Controversy of the Five Points]
Institutes of the Christian Religion [or Institutio Christianae Religionis; prompt on Institutes]
Answer these questions about the End Times, for 10 points each:
Jesus describes the coming of false prophets and catastrophic events that will occur before the Second Coming in the synoptic Gospels in a section usually named for this mountain, where he gives the sermon.
Jesus also returns in many branches of Islam, though its usually alongside this figure. In Twelver Shi'ism, this figure is the Twelfth Imam who is already on earth, but currently hidden.
This Islamic movement believes the Mahdi already came to earth in the 19th century, and the End Times were not a literal end of the world. This movement also believes Jesus was crucified but survived, and died of old age looking for the Lost Tribes of Israel.
Mount of Olives
Mahdi
Ahmadiyya
Answer some questions about Islamic jurisprudence, for ten points each.
Islamic jurisprudence often involves evaluating the Sunnah, the words and deeds of the Prophet, by examining the chain of transmission and reliability of these narrations of Muhammad's life.
This word denotes the use of reason by analogy, and in many Sunni schools joins ijma, or consensus, as an acceptable method of fiqh. Depending on who you ask, it's either a kind of Ijtihad, totally different, or an agent of Satan, so you should phrase your bonus parts on either concept carefully.
A revival of Ijtihad is central to the thought of this Swiss-born Islamic theologian, who advocates the creation of a "Western Islam" in works like Islam, the West, and the Challenge of Modernity.
Hadith
Qiyas
Tariq Ramadan
Leviticus 16 describes the rite in which this creature participated, which was part of the Day of Atonement, included an obscure demon named Azazel. For 10 points each:
Identify this creature that was supposed to take the community's sins with it into the wilderness.
This French thinker posited that Jesus filled the role of the scapegoat, but turned it around by being resurrected and shown to be innocent, thereby breaking the cycle of scapegoating. He wrote Violence and the Sacred and Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World.
The Book of Leviticus also includes several passages forbidding child sacrifice to this deity. However, modern theories suggest that his name does not denote a deity, but rather a type of sacrifice.
scapegoat
RenÃ© Girard
Moloch or Mulk or mlk or Molek
This book condemns those who claim that our sins give glory to God, and it was often used to support the Protestant doctrine of Sola Fide. For 10 points each:
Name this first of the Pauline Epistles, which follows the Book of Acts and contains a sixth chapter which features the claim that "the wages of sin is death."
This Pastoral Epistle addressed to a Bishop of Crete consists of only three chapters, the first of which claims that "the bishop must be blameless, as God's steward" and "not greedy of filthy lucre."
This epistle extols "the image of the invisible God" who reconciled man to God "by the blood of his cross." It is addressed to an Asia Minor congregation founded by Paul's colleague Epaphras.
Epistle to the Roman
Epistle to Titus 
Epistle to the Colossians 
These works traditionally concern the "five signs," which include the creation of the universe, the genealogies of the gods, and the history of the first humans. For 10 points each:
Name these collections of Hindu myth and legend which traditionally number eighteen.
One purpose of writing the Puranas was to commit the knowledge of these works to the masses. These ancient hymns include the "rig" and "atharva."
These prose commentaries on the Vedas were themselves expanded in the Aranyakas. The Aitareya and Kaushitaki ones more concretely explain the sacrificial rites necessitated by the Rigveda.
Puranas 
vedas 
Brahmanas 
This term is used to designate foods and actions which are permissible under Islamic law. For 10 points each:
Name this opposite of haraam
One requirement that must be met for meat to be halal is that the animal must be slaughtered in this way. It involves a single cut to the neck with a clean knife 
Most scholars agree that it is suggested but not required to utter this statement at the time of slaughter. This phrase reads "In the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful," and is printed at the start of all the suras but the ninth"
halal
Dhabibah [or Zabiha]
Bismillah
[missing]
Name these household gods which had "compitales," "praestites," and "familiares" varieties.
The Lares were closely related to these household gods, who were the guardians of a family's storeroom and the dedicatee of its meals.
A household's Lares often flanked a depiction of this hearth goddess, who was the namesake of some "Virgins" and the analog of the Greek goddess Hestia.
Lares
Penates
Vesta
Pope Paul VI's encyclical Mysterium fidei called for the usage of this term after it had been largely replaced by the terms transsignification and transfinalization. For 10 points each:
Name this doctrine key to the dogma of the Real Presence which holds that the bread and wine of communion literally becomes the body and blood of Christ.
When a priest conducting the Eucharist hands a practitioner bread, he says these four words. They are taken from Luke 22:19, where they are followed by "which is given for you; do this in remembrance of me."
This practice of spending some time of adulation in the presence of the Eucharist was practiced every day by Mother Teresa. It is traditionally practiced on Thursday evenings to commemorate Christ's ordeal at Gethsemane.
transubstantiation
This is my body [or Hoc est corpus meum]
Holy Hour 
Josephus claims that this woman married both the tetrarch Philip and Aristobulus. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who demanded the head of John the Baptist on a platter.
Tradition holds that Salome used this seductive dance to convince Herod Antipas. Richard Strauss included a scandalous version of it in his opera Salome.
John the Baptist had been imprisoned for criticizing Herod's impending marriage to this woman, as she had divorced Herod's still living brother.
Salome 
Dance of the Seven Veils 
Herodias 
The celebration of this holiday is based on the Qixi Festival and the story of "The Princess and the Cowherd." For 10 points each:
Name this "festival of the seventh," which celebrates the parting of the Milky Way to allow Orihime and Hikoboshi to meet for one day a year.
Tanabata is a festival in this religion native to Japan that celebrates holidays like "Greenery Day" and "Showa Day" as part of its "Golden Week."
Another Shinto festival is this celebration for which "nengajou" postcards are sent. This celebration begins with temple bells ringing 108 times, and it is considered good luck to dream of Mount Fuji, eggplant, or hawks during the hatsuyume of this holiday.
Tanabata 
Shinto
New Year 
[missing]
Name this preserver god from Hindu mythology who has ten avatars.
Vishnu is sometimes depicted reclining on Shesha, the king of these half-snake beings. Another was named Vasuki, and was used to stir the oceans.
This third avatar of Vishnu took the form of a boar and fought the demon Hiranyaksha for a thousand years to retrieve the earth from the bottom of the sea.
Vishnu
nagas
Varaha
[missing]
Name this thirteenth century Franciscan who believed that St. Francis had saved his life as a child and who was commissioned by the order to write the official legend of that saint's life.
In this work, Bonaventure argued that because the soul is made in the image of God, the best way to find Him is to follow a path from the external world through the internal thoughts and into the divine.
Bonaventure spent two years lecturing on the Four Books of Sentences written by this 12th century bishop of Paris.
Saint Bonaventure [San Bonaventura, Giovanni Di Fidanza]
The Soul's Journey into God [or The Journey of the Mind to God; or Itinerarium mentis in Deum]
Peter Lombard
[missing]
Name this religious law of Islam.
The period of history before the revelation of the Quran and the institution of Shari'ah is known by this Arabic term, which means "period of ignorance."
This Egyptian Islamic thinker postulated that the current era was a recurrence of Jahiliyyah because of a lack of Shari'ah law. He was a member of the Muslim Brotherhood who was executed by Nasser after being accused of plotting a coup.
Shari'ah
Jahiliyyah
Sayyid Qutb
[missing]
Name this Canaanite tribe which was led by King Og.
The Amorites invaded this other tribe, which worshipped Chemosh and descended from the union of Lot and his daughters. Naomi's faithful daughter-in-law Ruth is listed as a member of this tribe.
Chemosh was an analog of this Semitic god, who is bested by Yahweh in a fire lighting contest in the book of 1 Kings.
Amorites
Moabites
Baal
This book tells of the pious Nephite tribe, who were crushed by the heathen Lamanite tribe which evolved into Native Americans. For 10 points each:
Name this text which was translated from "golden plates" by Joseph Smith, a holy book of the Latter Day Saints movement.
The Book of Mormon joins the Bible, The Pearl of Great Price, and this book as the four scriptures of Mormonism. It consists of the revelations of Joseph Smith.
The Strangite faction of the Mormons uses the version of the Doctrine and Covenants that was published in this city. Brigham Young led the Mormons from this city to Utah after the death of Smith.
The Book of Mormon
Doctrine and Covenants 
Nauvoo, Illinois 
This holiday concludes the ten "Days of Awe" that fall after Rosh Hashanah. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday which is celebrated with the Kol Neidre prayer, the Jewish Day of Atonement.
This book is often read on Yom Kippur. Its title character is resting under a plant which rots when it is bitten by a worm.
Some Orthodox Jews wear this long white robe on Yom Kippur. It is also known as a sargenes.
Yom Kippur 
Book of Jonah
kittel
The book of Galatians relates an incident in which Paul's work of fusing the Jewish and gentile churches of this city was undone when Peter heeded James' suggestion of not eating with the gentiles. For 10 points each:
Name this city where Christians were first referred to by the name Christian.
Antioch is one of the strongholds of this minority Shi'ite sect, which treats the five pillars as mere symbols and reveres Ali as a deity.
Other parts of Syria are occupied by members of this religion, who call themselves muwahhidun. This close-knit religion of about 250,000 is mainly concentrated in Lebanon and forbids intermarriage and conversion.
Antioch
Alawites [or Nusayriyah, or Namiriyah]
Druze 
Some Muslim scholars hold that over forty believers must be present for this ritual, and it is mandatory for free, adult males. For 10 points each:
Name this Muslim ritual which is known as jum'ah in Arabic.
Jum'ah falls under the heading of this pillar of Islam, which calls for daily prayer.
Friday prayer replaces this second of the five daily prayers, which is generally said at noon.
Friday prayer [accept answers involving praying on Friday; prompt on "prayer"]
Salat [or Saleh]
dhuhr prayer
Among the core scriptural passages cited by this denomination is First Corinthians, 12-14, which refers to the gifts of the spirit. 
Identify this Christian sect, founded by William Seymour, which takes its name from an event described in the first two chapters of Acts of the Apostles.
In addition to exciting activities like snake handling, Pentecostal services might include this activity, which takes its inspiration from Acts 2:1-4, where the apostles were "filled with the Holy Spirit" and uttered certain syllables.
This sect of Pentacostalists took its name from a 1908 book by William Durham which claimed that conversion and sanctification were a single act of grace.
Pentecostalism [accept any word form which includes Pentecost]
glossolalia or speaking in tongues
Finished Work or Baptistic Pentacostalists
Identify the following about gods of the sun, for 10 points each. 
The eternal enemy of Fei Lian, this heavenly archer used his bow to destroy nine of the ten original suns and rule the last one. 
This son of Ningal and Sin, the Babylonian god of the sun, was assisted in his tasks by Girru, the god of fire, and Nusku, the god of light.
These people represent the sun as Eguzki and the moon as Illargi. Their supreme god and goddess are Sugaar and Mari, and mother Earth is represented as Ama Lur. 
Shen Yi
Shamash
Basque
He advocated a literal interpretation of the Revealed Text. For 10 points each:
Identify this Islamic theologian who founded and gave his name to the fourth of the four major schools of Sunni jurisprudence.
Ibn Hanbal was thus a key figure in the development of Islamic jurisprudence, an expansion of Sharia known as this.
Ibn Hanbal's greatest work was this encyclopedic collection of Hadith traditions.
Ahmad Ibn Hanbal 
fiqh
al-Musnad 
Identify the following about the writings of a minor Biblical prophet, for 10 points each. 
This book is usually considered a continuation of the Book of Ezra and discusses the rebuilding and dedication of the wall of Jerusalem as well as the ascension of the titular governor of Judah despite opposition from his enemies Sanballat and Tobiah. 
Nehemiah, along with Proverbs, Daniel, and others, belongs to this third and final division of the Old Testament. Its name comes from the Hebrew word for "Writings". 
This awesomely named governor of Judah is mentioned by Nehemiah as returning the first band of Jews back from the Babylonian Captivity, and he also laid the foundation for the Second Temple of Jerusalem. 
Book of Nehemiah 
Ketuvim or Hagiographa 
Zerubbabel or Zorobabel 
This sin is divided into Rububiyah, al-Asma was Sifat, al-Ibadah, and al-Ashgar varieties. For 10 points each: 
Name this Islamic sin which you commit when you associate Allah's powers or attributes with other beings, such as by being a Polytheist. 
Despite the Islamic prohibition on idol worship, which is seen as shirk, according to legend Mohammad originally included these much disputed verses in the Koran, which seemed to authorize the worship of pre-Islamic goddesses. 
For a final 10 points, name any of the three goddesses allegedly mentioned in the Satanic Verses, whose worship in modern Islam would be considered shirk. 
al-shirk [prompt on "sin of association"] 
Satanic Verses 
Allat or al-Uzza or Manat 
 Its namesake "priority" solves the synoptic problem by asserting that it was a source for the other two synoptic gospels. For 10 points each: 
Name this second and shortest gospel.
The two source hypothesis postulates that the Gospel of Mark and this document, which takes its one letter name from the German word for source, were the basis for the other two gospels. 
This hypothesis takes its name from a famous developer and disregards any non extant sources. It holds that Mark was derived from Matthew and that both were used as sources for Luke. 
Gospel of Mark 
Q Document 
Augustinian Hypothesis 
