The Festival of Santa Esterica, a fictional figure, was celebrated by individuals attempting to hide this trait, many of whom settled on Majorca as the Xueta (“shoo-ET-uh”) people. For 10 points each:
Name this religious identity that characterized the domestic life of Sabbatai Zevi’s (“SHAH-beh-tye ts’VEE’s”) Dönmeh community in the Ottoman Empire. A solitary community of these people in Belmonte (“bel-MON-tih”) embodied the idea of the “Crypto” type of them.
This Spanish term referred to people who continued to practice Judaism secretly, even after forced conversion to Christianity. While originally an insult, many Jews later adopted this term in honor, explaining its etymology via their dietary habits.
This term refers to the Jewish ethnic group originally from Spain and Portugal; they constitute the majority of European Jews along with the Ashkenazi.
they were Jews [accept Jewishness or word forms; accept believers in Judaism; accept Crypto-Jews; prompt on hiding one’s religion or hiding one’s faith by asking “which faith were they hiding?”; prompt on not actually being Christian or Muslim]
marranos [prompt on conversos]
Sephardic Jews [or Sephardim] &lt;Religion&gt;
Answer the following about the devout religious leader Guru Angad Dev, for 10 points each.
As the second guru, Angad served as the spiritual leader of this religion that originated in the Punjab. The khalsa, this religion’s community of believers, are expected to always carry a set of items known as the “Five K’s.”
Guru Angad is traditionally credited with inventing this writing style derived from earlier Sharada scripts. Printings of the Guru Granth Sahib (“grunt SAH-hib”) always use this script, whose name reflects its holy origins.
While Guru Nanak began the first of these institutions, Angad spread them across the lands. Sevadars provide free vegetarian meals to all visitors as part of these communal Sikh kitchens.
Sikhism [accept Sikkhī]
Gurmukhī (“gurr-MOO-kee”) [prompt on Punjabi script; do not accept or prompt on “Shahmukhi”] (The term is often translated as “from the mouth of the Guru.”)
langars [prompt on gurdwaras or Sikh temples] &lt;Religion&gt;
The elder brother of Ngô Đình Diệm (“naw din ZEE-im”), Archbishop Thục (“took”), was repeatedly excommunicated for espousing this religious position, whose holders consider Pope Francis to be a heretic. For 10 points each:
Name this viewpoint held by some Catholic traditionalists, which holds that as a result of counter-Catholic modern reforms, there hasn’t been a true pope since Pius XII’s (“the twelfth’s”) death in 1958.
The Latin term sede vacante, the basis for sedevacantism, refers to this saint’s chair being empty. This Apostle is typically thought of as the first Pope.
Sedevacantists hold that the Papacy’s heretical nature began with the reforms made at this 1960s ecumenical council by John XXIII (“the twenty-third”) and Paul VI (“the sixth”), which allowed non-Latin languages to be used in the Mass, among other things.
sedevacantism (“SAY-day-vuh-CON-tism”) [or word forms; do not accept or prompt on “sede vacante”]
Saint Peter [or Peter the Apostle; or Cephas; or Sham’un al-Safa; accept Simon Peter; prompt on Simon]
Second Vatican Council [or Vatican II (“two”); or Second Ecumenical Council of the Vatican; prompt on Vatican or Vatican Council if a number isn’t given] &lt;Religion&gt;
This phenomenon interrupts an event in which praise is given for the gods of “gold and silver, bronze and iron, wood and stone.” For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon. After many astrologers fail, one man’s success in interpreting this phenomenon results in him being clothed “in purple” and given a “chain of gold” by a man who would be slain that night.
The writing that interrupted Belshazzar’s feast portended an imminent invasion by a man of this name, known as “the Mede.” A real-life ruler of this name completed the restoration of the Second Temple that began under Cyrus the Great.
Belshazzar’s feast is recounted in the Book of Daniel, a prophet who would later survive an encounter in a den of these animals. Emphasizing his power, Revelation 5:5 (“five-five”) refers to Jesus as this animal “of Judah.”
the writing on the wall at Belshazzar’s feast [accept descriptive equivalents; accept “mene, mene, tekel, upharsin”; prompt on the appearance of a hand by asking “what does that hand produce?”]
Darius [accept Darius the Mede; or Darius the Great; or Darius I]
lions [accept lion of Judah or Aryeh Yehudah] &lt;Religion&gt;
A devotional poem by Süleyman Çelebi (“CHELL-eh-bee”) called the Mevlidi Sherif re-tells the story of this event from the perspective of Aminah, who hangs out with Asiyah and Maryam before a section known as the “Welcome.” For 10 points each:
Name this event that is central to most Mawlid (“MAO-leed”) celebrations. This event is typically considered to have occurred in the same year as an Abyssinian general’s siege that failed after his war elephants refused to enter a city.
Sunnis consider this figure’s namesake hadith to best provide a concise summary of Islamic beliefs. This figure is considered to have revealed the verses of the Quran to Muhammad within the Cave of Hira.
During the Night Journey, Jibrīl travelled with Muhammad to “the farthest mosque,” referring to this city’s Al-Aqsa Mosque. This city’s Dome of the Rock can be found atop the Temple Mount.
the birth of Muhammad [do not accept or prompt on “Muhammad’s conception,” which is considered an independent event in practice] (The city was Mecca, and that year is referred to as the Year of the Elephant.)
Jibrīl (“jee-BREEL”) [or Jibrā’īl; or Gabriel]
Jerusalem [or Al-Quds; or Bait al-Maqdis] &lt;Religion&gt;
This religion’s namesake founder was known as “The Painter” for creating the <em>Arzhang</em>, a Syriac picture book that would later heavily influence Middle Eastern miniature painting. For 10 points each:
Name this Persian religion that was based on the eternal conflict between the realms of light and darkness. Founded in the 3rd century AD, this religion was followed by Augustine of Hippo before his conversion to Christianity.
Centered on light and darkness, Manichaeist cosmology is characterized by this fundamental belief, which is also exhibited by the Zoroastrian faith via the struggle between the good Ahura Mazda and the evil Angra Mainyu.
In Zoroastrian eschatology (“ess-kuh-TOLOGY”), molten metal will flow across the Earth during Frashokereti, the Zoroastrian name for this type of event. According to Christianity, this general event will include the Rapture and the Last Judgement.
Manichaeism (“man-ih-KEE-ism”) [accept Religion of Mani; accept Ayīn-i Mānī; accept Móní Jiào; do not accept or prompt on “Mandaeism”]
dualism [accept dualistic religion or other word forms; accept moral dualism; prompt on answers regarding the existence of two fundamental concepts]
the end of the world [accept descriptive answers; accept apocalypse; accept armageddon] &lt;Religion&gt;
Answer the following about traditional African faiths, for 10 points each.
Describing many native African religions, this term was held by Edward Tylor to be the developmental phase for all religions. This term, from the Latin for “breath,” is the belief that all objects and phenomena possess a spirit or soul.
African faiths also often feature this practice, which babalawos perform by reading kola nuts on a wooden tray. In ancient China, “oracle bones” were used for this practice, which may be performed by reading tarot (“TAIR-oh”) cards.
The Bwa of Burkina Faso are known for making the tall nwantaytay type of these objects, which are often used in the ancestor venerating egungun festival. Dogon dance societies, or awa, are centered around these objects.
animism [or word forms, such as animistic religions; prompt on fetishism or totemism or pantheism]
divination [or word forms, such as divining; accept Ifá; accept descriptive answers such as prophecy, fortune-telling, or telling the future]
masks [prompt on costumes] &lt;Religion&gt;
The <em>Apophthegmata</em> (“APP-uh-theh-MAH-tuh”) <em>Patrum</em> is a collection of sayings attributed to this monastic tradition’s adherents, such as Moses the Black, who single-handedly overwhelmed a group of men robbing him and then dragged them to church to repent. For 10 points each:
Name this specific community of early Christian ascetics. These practitioners of hesychasm (“HESS-ih-KAZ-um”), a form of silent, internal prayer, were named for their place of residence in the Wadi El Natrun.
This Desert Father, the patron saint of skin diseases, successfully withstood numerous temptations during his journey into the desert.
Anthony’s biographer Athanasius served as the bishop of Alexandria in this modern country, which also serves as the headquarters of the Coptic Church.
Desert Fathers
Saint Anthony the Great [or Anthony the Abbot, Anthony of the Desert, Anthony the Anchorite, and Anthony of Thebes; accept “The Temptation of St. Anthony”; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, Anthony of Egypt; prompt on the Father of All Monks; do not accept or prompt on “Anthony of Padua” or “Anthony of Lisbon”]
Egypt [or the Arab Republic of Egypt] &lt;Religion&gt;
This man’s early enemy James Nayler eventually asked this man for forgiveness after being tortured and branded for his heretical choice to reenact Christ’s entry into Jerusalem by entering Bristol on a horse. For 10 points each:
Name this man who is often considered the first of the Valiant Sixty. Before marrying Margaret Fell, this man founded a tradition that witnessed a split between the Wilburite and the Gurneyite factions.
Fox is considered the founder of this Protestant denomination. Pennsylvania was originally founded as a haven for this group, which is characterized by a belief in God’s presence in everyone, known as “inner light.”
Most Quakers don’t celebrate this observance, as they consider it to be hypocritical to fast for part of the year and live in excess for the rest. This observance lasts 40 days, beginning on Ash Wednesday.
George Fox
Quakers [or Religious Society of Friends]
Lent [accept Quadragesima] &lt;Religion&gt;
The Three-Self Patriotic Movement remains one of five officially sanctioned exceptions to this policy, which originally manifested in the destruction of mosques and churches by the Red Guard. For 10 points each:
Name this policy that prevents about ninety million individuals from engaging in forms of “spiritual anesthesia.” Recently, this policy has resulted in the destruction of numerous steeple crosses in Henan (“huh-nahn”) province. A description is fine.
Chinese anti-religious campaigns have focused on followers of this religion, such as the Huízú (“hway-dzoo”). Most Uyghurs in Xīnjiāng (“shin-jong”) province are members of this religion’s Sunni denomination.
The traditional Chinese folk religion is often named for this Chinese term that is translated as “god” or “spirit.” This Chinese term refers to both the individual “human spirit,” and the “spirits” associated with the natural world.
atheism in China [accept descriptive answers indicating any sort of Chinese anti-religious campaigns; prompt on state-sponsored atheism by asking “in which country?”; prompt on Chinese religious policy]
Islam [or Sunni Islam]
shén (“shun”) [accept Shénism; accept shén-jiào] (The Chinese character is 神.) &lt;Religion&gt;
This deity’s nine manifestations are celebrated during a festival whose final day, Vijayadashami (“vee-juh-yuh-DUSH-mee”), culminates in the immersion of clay-and-straw <em>murti</em> statues into local rivers. For 10 points each:
Name this deity, whose victory over a buffalo demon is celebrated during Navaratri. During Ashwin, frenzied drummers known as dhaki perform as part of a similar, overlapping holiday, this deity’s namesake “puja.”
During Navaratri, local artisans produce festive displays full of golu, a type of these objects. In reality, Haiti has nothing to do with the “Voodoo” variety of these things, which can be stuck with pins to harm one’s enemies.
Two weeks following Durga Puja is this other Hindu festival. During this five-day festival, individuals create vibrant rangoli floor art, and light many oil lamps known as diyas.
Durgā [accept Durga Puja; accept Navadurgā; accept Durgotsava; prompt on Devi; prompt on Parvati;   prompt on Adi Parashakti; prompt on Gauri]
dolls [accept Voodoo dolls; accept figurines; prompt on poppets; prompt on effigies; prompt on idols; prompt on models]
Diwali [accept Divali, Deepawali, or Dipavali; prompt on Dhanteras; prompt on Festival of Lights] &lt;Religion&gt;
A triangular pastry eaten on this holiday is often filled with fruit preserves or other sweet goodies, and is named for its resemblance to the “ears of Haman.” For 10 points each:
Name this holiday on which costumes are often worn to emulate the disguised presence of God. In this holiday’s charitable mishloach manot (“meesh-LO-ahkh ma-NOTE”) ritual, baskets of food are sent to loved ones.
Purim memorializes the story of this woman, who teamed up with Mordecai in order to prevent all Jews in Achaemenid (“uh-KEE-muh-nid”) Persia from being massacred by the vizier (“vih-ZEER”) Haman.
The Book of Esther, along with four other scrolls, or megillot (“meg-ee-LOAT”), can be found in this third and last division of the Hebrew Bible, which accompanies the Torah and Nevi’im (“neh-vee-EEM”) in the traditional TaNaKH (“ta-NOCK”) acronym.
Purim [or Festival of Lots]
Esther
Ketuvim (“k’too-VEEM”) [or Writings] &lt;Religion&gt;
Prior to 2004, three stone pillars known as <em>jamarāt</em> were used to represent this figure in a ritual that involved the collection of pebbles at the Muzdalifah plain, but have since been replaced with walls for safety. For 10 points each:
Name this figure who is symbolically pelted with rocks by Ibrāhīm in a ritual inspired by his fruitless attempt to stop the sacrifice of Ismā‘īl. In the Quran, this figure was the only one who refused to bow to Adam.
The Stoning of the Devil is performed on this Islamic holiday that commemorates Ibrāhīm’s aforementioned resolve. This holiday includes massive animal sacrifices.
Eid al-Adha also marks the end of this Islamic ritual, whose performers typically circumambulate the Kaaba seven times. All able-bodied Muslims are mandated to perform this pilgrimage to Mecca at least once.
the Devil [or Satan; accept Stoning of the Devil; accept Shayṭān, Shayāṭīn, or Šayṭān; accept Iblīs]
Eid al-Adha [or Eid Qurban; or Eid al-Kabir; accept Bakr-Eid or Bakrid; prompt on Festival of the Sacrifice; prompt on Eid; do not accept or prompt on “Eid al-Fitr”]
Hajj &lt;Religion&gt;
This concept is exemplified by Sen no Rikyū’s decision to shake some leaves into a perfectly clean garden after sweeping it. For 10 points each:
Name this concept from Japanese aesthetics in which imperfections, such as a chip on the edge of a teacup, are considered to make an object more beautiful.
Valuing wabi-sabi as part of the transience of the world is derived from the general philosophy of this variant of Mahayana Buddhism popular in Japan, which teaches a type of sudden enlightenment called satori.
Another Japanese concept related to transience, mono no aware (“ah-wah-reh”), is often translated into English as having this concept with respect to things in the world. This word can also refer to an appeal to emotion.
wabi-sabi
Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]
pathos &lt;ML, Phil/Thought&gt;
This saint’s actions include taming a fierce wolf that had been eating the villagers of Gubbio. For 10 points each:
Name this 13th-century saint from Assisi who largely withdrew from public life after his namesake religious order was authorized by Pope Innocent III.
This order of nuns, a companion organization to the Franciscans, was also founded by a namesake saint from Assisi who was one of the first followers of Francis.
Historically, the Franciscans and Poor Clares were examples of religious orders described by this term, meaning that their members relied entirely on charity for their livelihood. This term comes from the Latin word for “to beg.”
Saint Francis of Assisi [or Francesco; or Giovanni di Pietro di Bernardone]
Poor Clares [or Order of Saint Clare; or Order of Poor Ladies; or Clarisses or Minoresses or Franciscan Clarist Order]
mendicant orders [or ordo mendicans] (The Latin verb is mendicare.) &lt;WA, Religion&gt;
The forger Mark Hofmann managed to sell a fake copy of a transcript of part of these documents, the Anthon Transcript, for 25,000 dollars. For 10 points each:
Name these documents that are believed to have been written in Reformed Egyptian, the language used by Nephi, son of Lehi the prophet. They were supposedly found near Manchester, New York, in 1822.
This prophet founded the Latter Day Saints church after finding those golden plates.
This Mormon leader received a vision from the “Plates of Laban,” after which he proclaimed himself King James I. He established a community at Beaver Island, Wisconsin, after losing a succession struggle following Joseph Smith’s death.
the golden plates [prompt on plates; do not accept or prompt on “golden tablets”]
Joseph Smith [or Joseph Smith Jr.]
James Jesse Strang &lt;JM, Religion&gt;
This religion was founded by Tonpa Shenrab, who ordered his followers to circumambulate Mount Kailash. For 10 points each:
Name this religion whose scriptures were revealed to visionaries called tertöns. Buddhists assert that one of this religion’s gods, Tangla (“tahng-lah”), was converted by Padmasambhava (“pud-muh-SUM-buh-vuh”) to a local variant of Vajrayana Buddhism.
Bön was more widely practiced in this region before the introduction of its variety of Buddhism, which is led by the Dalai Lama.
The name of Tonpa Shenrab is speculated to be a translation of the term for these figures into the Zhang-Zhung (“zhahng-zhoong”) language. These compassionate beings include Avalokitesvara (“uh-VAH-loh-kee-TESH-vuh-ruh”).
Bön [or Bönpo]
Tibet [or Xīzàng]
bodhisattvas [prompt on Buddhas or enlightened ones] &lt;JM, Religion&gt;
You are a young, devout Muslim man who is interested in marrying his equally devout Mormon girlfriend. For 10 points each:
One of the easier aspects of the marriage to negotiate will be what’s in the fridge, because both religions prohibit the consumption of this type of liquid.
It’s less clear whether your marriage is permissible at all, because Mormons are generally not considered to be part of this category of recognized monotheistic believers, whom Muslim men [emphasize] are allowed to marry. Zoroastrians, Jews, and Christians are considered to belong to this category.
If you can’t get a qadi or Islamic court judge to bless your marriage, you might get it approved by one of these clerics who can issue fatwas. A “grand” one of them is the leading Islamic jurist in many countries.
alcohol [or equivalents like booze; prompt on strong drink or hot beverage or intoxicating beverage]
People of the Book [or Ahl al-Kitab; do not accept or prompt on “dhimmi”]
muftis [accept Grand Mufti] &lt;WA, Religion&gt;
The universal principles of this religious tradition’s teachings were emphasized by S. N. Goenka (“go-EN-ka”), a teacher born in Burma, a country where it is dominant. For 10 points each:
Name this orthodox tradition of Buddhism that originated in Sri Lanka. It is contrasted with the Mahayana and Vajrayana traditions.
The name of this type of meditation practiced by Theravada Buddhists is the Pali word for the insight that it seeks to cultivate. Western teachers of this type of meditation, such as Sharon Salzberg, contributed to the mindfulness movement.
Members of this esoteric religious society founded by Helena Blavatsky started many lay Buddhist organizations in Sri Lanka that promoted vipassana.
Theravada Buddhism
vipassana meditation [or vipaśyanā meditation]
Theosophy [or Theosophical Society] &lt;WA, Religion&gt;
Christ’s quadruple role as savior, healer, baptizer, and coming king lends its name to the Foursquare Church founded by this woman. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who proselytized (“PROSS-lit-tized”) largely among migrants in her home state of California.
McPherson’s teachings exemplified this sort of Christianity, which is named for the act of spreading the message of Christ. This Christian movement is often referred to as “born-again” Christianity.
Aimee Semple McPherson was a founding figure in this evangelical Protestant denomination, whose spread began after a meeting organized by the black preacher George Seymour, the Azusa Street Revival. The Charismatic movement spreads practices similar to those of this church.
Aimee Semple McPherson
evangelical Christianity [or evangelism or evangelist Christianity]
Pentecostal Church &lt;JM, Religion&gt;
In the 2018 World Cup, Tunisia’s goalkeeper faked injuries so that his teammates could catch an evening snack break, as they were practicing this observance and were really hungry. For 10 points each:
Name this Muslim month of fasting that ends on Eid al-Fitr (“EED ull-FIT-urr”).
During Ramadan, this large meal usually breaks the fast during the evening. An apricot drink called Qamr ad-Din is traditionally consumed with this meal.
In much of the Islamic world, the role of traditional post-iftar storytellers have largely been replaced by examples of these things, which are called musalsalat. Adel Emam is one of the most famous creators of them.
Ramadan
iftar
Ramadan soap operas [or Ramadan TV shows or TV programs or TV serials] &lt;JM, Religion&gt;
This title was claimed in the 17th century by the Turkish rabbi Sabbatai Zevi (“SHAH-beh-tye ts’VEE”), who inspired the Polish Jew Jacob Frank (“YA-kub FRONK”) to also claim this title. For 10 points each:
Give this title with a Hebrew name that translates as “the anointed one.” Christians ascribe this title to Jesus.
This rabbi is said to have fallen ill and died due to his grief at the Frankists’ decision to leave Judaism. This Lemberg-based rabbi, whose birth name was Israel, formed a movement that emphasized simple expressions of faith over abstract reading of the Torah.
The Ba’al Shem Tov founded this orthodox religious tradition whose name translates as “piety.” This tradition’s followers are notable for their distinctive dress, which includes large fur hats and long black jackets.
messiah [or mashiach]
Ba’al Shem Tov (“BAH-all SHEM tove”) [or Israel ben Eliezer; or Besht; prompt on partial answers]
Hasidic Judaism [or Hasidism or Hasidut; prompt on Haredim or Haredi Jews or Ultra-Orthodox Jews or Orthodox Jews or frums; do not accept or prompt on “Conservative Judaism”] &lt;JM, Religion&gt;
A 2007 book by Christoph Luxenberg about this book drew criticism for its sweeping theological conclusions based on purported Syriac etymologies. For 10 points each:
Name this book that many Western scholars nonetheless believe draws heavily on Syriac liturgy. This book is divided into chapters called suras.
The Syriac liturgy that Luxenberg analyzes is written in a variant of this Semitic language, which is believed to have been the language that the historical Jesus spoke in everyday life.
Luxenberg’s book includes the oft-repeated argument that this belief regarding jannah relies on a mistranslation of the word houri (“hoo-ree”), which Luxenberg suggests means “grape” or “raisin.” A description is fine.
the Qur’an [or al-Qur’an; or the Holy Koran, etc.]
Aramaic [or aramit]
the belief that 72 virgins are awarded in heaven [accept equivalents mentioning 72 virgins; prompt on virgins] &lt;WA, Religion&gt;
A legend from medieval Europe claims that a number of “red” examples of these people in the steppes would one day invade Europe, and may be based on the real-life Khazars. For 10 points each:
Name these people. A legendary example of these people may have been a doorman to Pontius Pilate (“pilot”) and was cursed to be a nomad until the Second Coming.
Similar to the “Red Jews” are this pair from Abrahamic tradition, who were identified with Scythians by Josephus, and with the people of Meshech and Tubal by the Bible. Islamic myths hold that Alexander the Great built his namesake “gates” to keep these figures north of the Caucasus mountains.
The story of Gog and Magog appears in the namesake book of this Old Testament prophet, who experiences visions of God’s chariot and a valley of dry bones.
Jews [or Juden; accept Wandering Jew]
Gog AND Magog [or Yajuj AND Majuj]
Ezekiel &lt;WA, Myths/Legends&gt;
This sect’s most famous dance is meant to achieve a form of ecstasy known as <em>wajd</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this mystical Islamic sect whose Mevlevi Order emphasizes experiencing Allah through emotional experiences like whirling to the music of a ney, or Turkish flute. It was heavily promoted by Rumi.
In 1898, the Klickitat Native American Jake Hunt founded a religion based on spinning while holding a pair of these objects. In Lakota tradition, these objects are used to adorn sacred pipes as symbols of the Great Spirit.
The Yanvalou (“yon-vah-loo”) dance is used to invoke these spirits, who each have different types of dances associated with them, including some wild spinning motions. They include Damballah.
Sufism [or Taṣawwuf; prompt on dervishes]
eagle feathers [or plumage]
loas [or lwas] &lt;AA, Religion&gt;
Rabbinic literature contrasts this place with Gehenna, a similarly dark location intended as a place of punishment. For 10 points each:
Name this dreary netherworld inhabited by shades called rephaim (“re-fah-EEM”).
In the Bible, Saul asks the Witch of Endor to summon this prophet from Sheol in order to give him counsel. This prophet names the two books of the Bible that tell the stories of Saul and David.
This Jewish writer’s 13 Articles of Faith imply a belief in Sheol or another form of afterlife, as they include the resurrection of the dead. This rabbi, known as Rambam (“ROM-bom”), wrote the Mishneh Torah.
Sheol (“SHEE-ole”)
Samuel [or Shmuel]
Maimonides [or Moshe ben Maimon; prompt on Moshe; prompt on Rambam until read] &lt;WA, Religion&gt;
This author’s primary religious inspiration was the “Simple Contemplation” outlined by Ludolph of Saxony in the latter’s <em>De Vita Christi</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote a set of devotional prayers and meditations meant to be performed over a period of four weeks in his Spiritual Exercises.
Ignatius of Loyola founded this religious order whose members conducted extensive missionary and education work in Asia and the Americas. Pope Francis is the first Pope from this order.
This other 16th-century Spanish clergyman wrote the treatise Ascent of Mount Carmel, which instructs people how to achieve mystical union with Christ and begins with his poem “Dark Night of the Soul.”
Ignatius of Loyola [or Ignacio de Loyola or Ignazio Loiolakoa; prompt on Ignatius or Loyola]
Jesuits [or Iesuitae or Society of Jesus or Societas Iesu; prompt on SJ]
Saint John of the Cross [or San Juan de la Cruz; prompt on John] &lt;WA, Religion&gt;
Answer the following about the Iraqi scholar Ibn Hanbal, for 10 points each.
Ibn Hanbal’s namesake school of jurisprudence is one interpretation of how to apply this code of Islamic law, which is implemented in places such as northern Nigeria and Aceh (“AH-chay”) in Indonesia.
Ibn Hanbal and his later acolyte, Ibn Taymiyyah, were major inspirations of this ultra-conservative Islamic movement that is dominant in Saudi Arabia and sponsored by the country’s monarchy.
During a persecution called the mihna, Ibn Hanbal defended this position regarding the origins of the Qur’an against the rationalist Mu’tazili school. Kharijites and most Shi’a do not accept this position, but all Sunni theological schools do. A description is fine.
sharia law
Wahhabism [or Wahhabi Islam]
the Qur’an is uncreated [or the Qur’an is eternal; or it is coeternal with Allah; or it is the eternal word of God; or it does not have an origin; or that it has always existed, etc.] &lt;JM, Religion&gt;
Answer the following about Islamic wedding practices. For 10 points each:
Originally from the Indian subcontinent, this form of body art is also commonly used by Muslim brides from the Middle East and Southeast Asia. This form of art is typically made with henna paste.
Some Islamic scholars consider this first wife of Muhammad to be the ideal example for a Muslim bride.
In Islamic marriages, this payment to the groom’s parents is frequently made. In some Islamic countries, this payment is considered a mandatory part of Islamic law and must be paid by the bride’s family.
mehndi
Khadija bint Khuwaylid [accept Khadija al-Kubra or Khadija the Great]
dowry &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
You are a recently deceased Jew. For 10 points each:
Members of this organization will clean, ritually purify, and dress your body in a simple white robe. Some members of this organization will watch over you until your funeral to protect you from desecration.
On the anniversary of your death, your loved ones will likely recite the mourner’s variety of this prayer. The “Half” variety of this prayer is used to mark the sections of worship services.
In lieu of flowers, visitors to your grave will customarily leave these natural objects on your grave to represent permanence and to symbolically weigh down the soul. After one’s death in Western traditions, these sorts of objects are often inscribed with names and dates of birth and death.
Chevra Kadisha (HEV-ruh kuh-DEE-sha)
Kaddish [do NOT accept or prompt on “Kiddush”; ask players to spell if unsure]
stones [accept equivalents like rocks; or pebbles; accept tombstones or headstones] &lt; Nathan Fredman | Religion &gt;
After this man’s death, Abner proclaimed his son Ish-Bosheth as king for two years, after which he was deposed by his brother-in-law. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Kish who served as the first king of the Israelites and died with his three sons and armor-bearer at Mount Gilboa.
King Saul was the father-in-law of this other king of Israel, whom Saul made gather hundreds of foreskins in order to marry his daughter Michal. This man is more famous for slaying a giant soldier with a slingshot and stone.
This grandson of David was the last ruler of a united Israel and Judah. After his father Solomon died, this man tried to calm the Israelites down by proclaiming “Whereas my father chastised you with whips, so shall I chastise you with scorpions.”
Saul
David
Rehoboam &lt; Jonathan Lau / Brad McLain | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
This thinker argued that since Nirvana is in opposition to samsara, it doesn't exist. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian philosopher, the author of Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way.
Nagarjuna was a follower of this school of thought’s Mahayana sect. This philosophical religion was founded by Siddhartha Gautama after he achieved enlightenment under the Bodhi Tree.
Nagarjuna argued that everything, not just sentient beings, lack essence and thus possess this quality. Earlier Buddhist thinkers said that all people have no intrinsic nature, which gives them this property. You can give the Sanskrit or English term.
Nagarjuna
Buddhism
emptiness [accept Śūnyatā or voidness] &lt; Brad McLain | Philosophy &gt;
This substance is used in community meetings called groundations. For 10 points each:
Name this substance which is consumed through a device called a Chalice which is used to connect worshipers to Jah.
Marijuana is used in the groundations of Rastafari. The Rastafari movement is associated with this genre of music -- which helped popularize Rasta in the United States. Bob Marley used this genre of music to summarize Rastafari teachings.
This other form of Rastafarian music consists of chanting and drumming and is used to reach states of greater spirituality. This form of music shares its name with the oldest Rastafari mansion which does not believe in violence.
marijuana [accept cannabis, ganja, pot, weed, sticky-icky, etc; prompt on hemp]
Reggae
Nyabingi  &lt; Amy Paul | Religion &gt;
Answer the following about the religious ideas of Jōyō Daishi, better known as Dogen. For 10 points each:
Dogen founded the Soto school of this branch of Buddhism. This branch of Buddhism was founded by Bodhidharma and involves contemplating unanswerable questions called koans.
Dogen advocated for this type of meditation which he described as "Non-thinking.” Dogen criticized the Rinzai School for reciting koans while performing this style of meditation.
Dogen wrote a commentary on this text titled the Hokke Ten Hokke, whose title refers to turning the title object of this text. This text argues that the Buddha is an eternal being and teaches the doctrine of expedient means.
Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]
Zazen Meditation [prompt on Seated Meditation]
Lotus Sutra [accept Sutra of the White Lotus of the Sublime Dharma; accept Sanddharma Pundarika Sutra] &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
Name some things that will happen after the End of the World, according to John of Patmos. For 10 points each:
This city will come down from heaven. Inhabitants of this city made primarily of translucent gold won’t experience night or need the sun because God will give them light.
This plant will grow in the middle of the main street of New Jerusalem. This plant will be accessible to all who “wash their robes” unlike its last appearance way back in the beginning in the Garden of Eden, where it was protected by a flaming sword after Adam and Eve were expelled from the Garden.
New Jerusalem will have this many gates made of pearl, each of which has a name of one of the tribes of Israel inscribed. There will be this many foundations for its walls -- one for each of the apostles.
New Jerusalem [prompt on Jerusalem]
Tree of Life
twelve &lt; Nathan Fredman | Mythology, Stories and Legends &gt;
Answer the following about ancient religions and beans. For 10 points each:
During this festival, beans were thrown over celebrants shoulders in order to pacify ghosts. This festival was legendarily instituted by Romulus to pacify the spirit of Remus.
This empire celebrated Lemuria, as well as Farelia, which was another festival that used beans to pacify ancestor ghosts. This empire’s other religious rites included sacrifices performed by the Pontifex Maximus at the Temple of Jupiter.
The followers of this man were instructed not to consume beans because they believed it would cause them to fart and lose part of their soul. This man legendarily drowned one of his followers who discovered irrational numbers and also found the intervals of musical instruments.
Lemuria [accept Lemuralia]
Roman Empire [accept Imperium Romanum]
Pythagoras of Samos &lt; Bradley McLain | Religion &gt;
According to midrash, during this miracle, the seabed was dry and the newly created sea walls bore fruit. For 10 points each:
Nachshon ben Aminadav initiated this miracle after he walked up to his nostrils into a body of water.
During the Exodus, the Israelites crossed the Red Sea to escape from this country ruled by Pharaohs where they had been enslaved for 430 years.
During daytime, the fleeing Israelites were accompanied by a pillar of this substance. This substance enveloped Mount Sinai while Moses was being given the Torah.
parting of the Red Sea [or Sea of Reeds or Yom Soof] [Word forms acceptable]
Egypt [or Mitzrayim]
cloud &lt; Nathan Fredman | Mythology, Stories and Legends &gt;
This theologian broke with the Church of England after he gave preachers in America the ability to administer the sacraments. For 10 points each:
Name this English preacher, who espoused following scripture, tradition, reason, and experience for theological reflection.
John Wesley was the founder of this Protestant denomination, the largest mainline denomination in the United States. In 2019, the largest branch of this denomination voted to reaffirm its opposition to LGBT marriages and ordination.
John’s brother Charles Wesley is best known for writing these musical works which are often sung during church services and include “Amazing Grace” and “A Mighty Fortress is Our God”.
John Wesley [prompt on Wesley; do NOT accept or prompt on “Charles Wesley”]
Methodism [accept United Methodist Church]
hymns &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Religion &gt;
In a commentary on this practice, Vyasa equated it with the notion of <em>samādhi</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this group of practices closely related with meditation and physical exercise. The modern Western form of this practice is adapted from the Hatha variant which focuses on asanas or body postures.
This text refers to yogic paths of salvation that include Karma and Bhakti. This 700-verse scripture begins as a conversation between a Pandava prince and his charioteer.
Karma and Bhakti Yoga are two of the three paths to spiritual liberation mentioned in the Bhagavad Gita. This path of knowledge is the third.
yoga [accept Hatha yoga; accept Yoga sutras of Patanjali; do NOT accept or prompt on “sutras”]
the Bhagavad Gita [do NOT accept or prompt on “Mahabharata”]
jnana (gya-ni or gyan) yoga &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Religion &gt;
Answer some questions about concepts from Jainism. For 10 points each:
In Jainism, this concept is believed to be a physical contaminant that is attracted to the soul. In Buddhism, this concept is often equated to volitional action and is the force that sparks new life.
Jains believe that this concept is eternal and unending, although they divide it into units, called Aras.
According to Jainism, this thing survives death and goes through Samsara. It is similar to the western concept of soul and is sometimes combined with the Hindu concept of Atman.
karma
time
jiva &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
For 10 points each -- Answer some questions about prayer in Judaism:
This declaration is recited before the evening service on Yom Kippur. This declaration’s name translates to “all vows.”
When performing morning prayers, or any prayer on Yom Kippur, some Jews wear one of these garments around their heads. These woolen objects traditionally have knotted tassels on their corners called tzitzit (tseet-SEET)
After the weekly portion of this text is chanted, congregants rise and hold their pinky fingers up while this scroll is held aloft and exclaim that this text was given to Moses.
Kol Nidre
tallit [accept tallitot, tallis; accept prayer shawl; accept Tallit katan or Tallit gadol]
sefer Torah [accept Pentateuch] &lt; Nathan Fredman | Religion &gt;
This man is often compared to Elijah and John the Baptist for his role in foreshadowing a later religious leader. For 10 points each:
Name this man who claimed to be the Mahdi and wrote the Persian and Arabic Bayans.
The Bab was an important inspiration to the author of The Book of Certitude, Baha’u’llah. Baha’u’llah would go on to found this Abrahamic religion which holds that all major holy figures were manifestations of the same one god.
The Baha’i Universal House of Justice is located in this country’s city of Haifa. This country’s largest metro was the proposed location of a Raëlist “Extraterrestrial Embassy.” That plan was scrapped because Raelism uses one of this country’s sacred images inscribed with a Swastika.
The Bab [accept Siyyid Alí Muhammad Shírází; prompt on The Gate]
Baha’i Faith [accept Bahaism]
State of Israel &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
During this holiday, a namesake Zakat is given to the poor in order to give them the means to celebrate this holiday. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday that coincides with the first day of the month of Shawwal and the last day of a month of daytime fasting.
This month of daytime fasting precedes Eid al-Fitr. Participation in this month-long holiday is typically required for all able-bodied Muslims.
This general term for fasting in Islam is one of the Five Pillars. It is forbidden on most holidays and is usually not practiced on Fridays.
Eid al-Fitr [prompt on Lesser Eid; do NOT accept or prompt on “Eid al-Adha”]
Ramadan
Sawm [or Siyam] &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
In the first part of the Book of Enoch, angels known as Watchers are described as fathering beings with this quality, the Nephilim. For 10 points each:
Name this quality, which was also possessed by King Og of the Ammonites as well as several Anakites mentioned in the report of the 12 spies sent into Canaan.
The Book of Enoch is accepted as canonical by this country’s Orthodox Church which is headquartered in Addis Ababa.
The Book of Enoch is only fully extant in this liturgical language, used among Beta Israel. This Semitic language is also used by the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.
they were giants [accept logical equivalents of superhuman size]
(Federal Democratic Republic of) Ethiopia
Ge’ez [prompt on Ethiopic] &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
Max Freedom Long founded the Huna New Age Movement claiming that it was based on the practices of these people. It was not. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose actual practices include Luau (lu-ow) feasts and Hula dancing.
In Native Hawaiian beliefs, the spiritual energy mana grants authority to these high priests. More generally, this title can be granted to any master of any profession or to master surfers.
These rules governed Hawaiian religious practices as well as gender roles and rules protecting the mana of chiefs. These rules are contrasted with the noa, or common things.
Native Hawaiians [accept kānaka ʻōiwi, kānaka maoli; prompt on Polynesians or Pacific Islanders]
Kahuna
Kapus [or the Kapu system; do NOT accept or prompt on “tapu” or “taboo”] &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
This religion’s banner includes its main symbol, the Left Eye of God, along with a charity bowl, a feather duster, and a red book. For 10 points each:
Name this syncretic religion whose name translates to “highest power.” Popes, cardinals, and bishops are ranks  in its executive body, and its beliefs are generally a combination of Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism.
Cao Dai is a religion from this country. This country’s largest basilica was built in Saigon during its time as a French colony.
As in Buddhism, Hinduism, and other Indian religions, a major goal of adherents of Caodaism is freedom from the cyclical pattern of life, death, and suffering referred to by this Sanskrit term. Nirvana is the release from this cycle.
Caodaism [or Đức Cao Đài]
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
saṃsāra [or sansara]
This figure’s appearance at the beginning of the Book of Job is one of the few times he is mentioned in the Old Testament. For 10 points each:
Name this “accuser” who pressures God into testing Job’s faith. This “prince of darkness” is sometimes conflated with the talking serpent that tempted Eve in the Garden of Eden.
“Greater” and “lesser” forms of magic are practiced by the Church of Satan founded by this person. This author of the largely plagiarized Satanic Bible cultivated Satanism’s public image by shaving his head, wearing capes, and maintaining a black goatee.
This gnostic religion emphasized the struggle between good and evil, sometimes simplified to a struggle between God and Satan. St. Augustine followed this religion as a young man, but later denounced it as a heresy.
Satan [or the Devil]
Anton LaVey
Manichaeism
Wooden plaques called “ema” are hung and ritually burned at this religion’s shrines. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese religion whose shrines include the Ise [“EE-say”] Grand Shrine, which is dedicated to Amaterasu.
Statues of these animals are commonly found in Shinto shrines dedicated to Inari, the kami of these animals. Many East Asian countries depict these animals with nine tails.
Shrine maidens called miko engage in a tradition referred to as kagura, which consists of this activity. A form of this activity performed alongside boiling water rituals at Ise Shrine led to a form of this called Ise-ryu kagura.
Shintoism [or kami-no-michi]
foxes [or kitsune]
dancing [accept word forms]
The first practitioners of this religion were members of the Afro-Cuban Lucumí ethnic group. For 10 points each:
Name this syncretic Caribbean religion that worships orishas like Olodumare. The Supreme Court case Lukumi Babalu v. City of Hialeah concerned this religion’s practice of animal sacrifice.
This other syncretic Caribbean religion originates from Haiti. Namesake dolls, zombies, and other witchcraft- related practices are commonly associated with this religion, which worships spirits called loas.
Elekes, things that consist of these objects, are received in the first stage of the Santería initiation process. Practitioners of Islam use misbahas, which consist of these objects, during dhikr.
Santería [or Regla de Ocha]
Vodou [or Voodoo]
beads [or prayer beads]
During the Night Journey, Muhammad encountered one of these figures made of fire and ice. For 10 points each:
Name these figures that are known as malak in Islam. Two of these figures named Munkar and Nakir ask three questions during barzakh.
Munkar and Nakir’s questions can only be answered correctly if one truly believes in this Islamic creed, which is one of the Five Pillars of Islam. It states that there is no God but God, and that Muhammad is God’s prophet.
Reciting the shahada is one of the Five Pillars of Islam along with salat, which requires adherents to pray five times a day facing this holiest city of Islam.
angels [prompt on mala’ikah]
shahada [or aš-šahādah]
Mecca [or Makkah]
The Chrism Mass, in which various holy oils used for sacraments are blessed, is held on this holy day. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian holy day that derives its most common name from its commemoration of the foot washing of Jesus and his apostles.
Maundy Thursday occurs on the Thursday before this major Christian holiday whose date was historically set by the Computus. This holiday celebrates Jesus’ resurrection from the dead.
A large, white one of these objects is typically blessed and used every year at Easter. A cross, the letters alpha and omega, and the current year are typically displayed on that object of this kind.
Maundy Thursday [or Holy Thursday; or Covenant Thursday; or Great and Holy Thursday; or Sheer Thursday; or Thursday of Mysteries]
Easter [or Pascha; or Resurrection Sunday]
a candle
This man was the last survivor of the Nephites. For 10 points each:
Name this prophet who abridged the Book of Ether [EE-ther]. This prophet shares his name with a captain of the Nephites who raised a banner called the “title of liberty” to rally his people.
Moroni’s writings are found in this religious text that includes writings from Enos and Nephi. Moroni supposedly buried the first version of this religious text on Cumorah Hill in New York.
This founder of Mormonism used “seer stones” to translate the Book of Mormon into English. Brigham Young took over leadership of the Mormon Church after this man’s death.
Moroni [or Captain Moroni]
Book of Mormon
Joseph Smith Jr.
The recitation of this text is followed by a reading of Numbers 15:26, which states that “the whole community of the Children of Israel… shall be forgiven.” For 10 points each:
Name this Aramaic declaration recited before the beginning of one High Holy Day. Its name translates to “all vows.”
The Kol Nidre is recited before the beginning of this Jewish day of atonement that ends with Ne’ila, during which the gates of heaven are said to close. Adherents fast during this 25-hour holiday that falls on the 10th of Tishrei.
During the Ne’ila Amida prayer, this object is kept open. This object, which is where a synagogue’s Torah scrolls are kept, is traditionally placed on the wall of the sanctuary that faces Jerusalem.
Kol Nidre
Yom Kippur
the Torah ark [or the holy ark; or Aron kodesh]
The Hanafi school of this discipline was founded by the first scholar to use qiyas [“key-YAWSS”], a process of reasoning based around inductive analogies. For 10 points each:
Give the Arabic term for the discipline of interpreting sharia, whose four Sunni branches are Maliki, Shafi’i, Hanbali and Hanafi.
Part of fiqh involves interpreting the Sunnah, or the teachings and deeds of this central Islamic prophet who received the Quran from God.
Fiqh also involves interpreting these texts, which consist of compilations of the sayings and actions of Muhammad. These texts are authenticated by analysis of the chain of narrators who have transmitted them.
fiqh
Muḥammad ibn ʿAbdullāh
hadīths [or aḥādīth]
This man imprisoned a prophet in Machaerus to execute him. For 10 points each:
Name this man who fulfilled Salome’s [“SAL-oh-may’s”] request for a certain prophet’s head on a dish.
King Herod fulfilled Salome’s request by beheading this prophet who baptized Jesus after calling him “the lamb of God.” Gabriel told this man’s father Zachariah that this man’s mother, Elizabeth, would give birth to him in menopause.
The Gospels state that John survived in the wilderness by eating locusts and this food. This is the second food mentioned in a common Biblical quote that calls Israel “a land flowing with” two kinds of food.
Herod [or King Herod; or Herod the Tetrarch; or Herod Antipater; or Herod Antipas]
St. John the Baptist [or John the Forerunner; or John the Baptizer]
honey
Womanist theologians like Delores Williams have noted that Hagar is the first female in the Bible to experience one of these events. For 10 points each:
Give this term for an event in which God reveals himself to a human being. This term with a Greek origin is an alternate name for the feast of Epiphany.
This apostle converted to Christianity after Jesus spoke to him on the road to Damascus. His attempts to convert Gentiles are the primary subject of the book of Acts.
In Acts, the Holy Spirit descends upon the Apostles on this feast day, causing them to speak in tongues. This holy day occurs seven weeks after Easter.
theophany
Saint Paul of Tarsus [or Saul of Tarsus]
Pentecost [or White Sunday or Whitsunday]
This man’s namesake text includes a story in which Lickity and Split kill Wonton by adding orifices to his body. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese philosopher who wrote a text in which he asks a skull “how do you know it’s bad to be dead?” In that text, this man defended a supposedly useless tree by saying one could admire it or nap under it.
The Zhuangzi is an important text in this Chinese religion that emphasizes wu-wei, or “non-action.” This religion is typically represented by the yin-yang symbol.
Early Taoism was strongly influenced by this other Chinese text, whose 64 hexagrams can be used to perform divination.
Zhuangzi [“ZHUANG-zuh”] [or Zhuang Zhou; or Chuang Tzu]
Taoism [or Daoism]
I Ching [or Classic of Changes; or Book of Changes]
Women customarily use the ring finger when applying vermillion or sandalwood paste to this region of the body in a ritual known as <em>tilaka</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this region of the body where a colored dot known as a bindi is often worn by Hindu and Jain women, traditionally to represent concealed wisdom or the “third eye.”
Hindu women receive the sindoor, a streak of vermillion across the forehead and hair, following one of these events. During this event, Hindus traditionally take seven steps around a holy fire as part of the ritual of Saptapadi.
In preparation for weddings, Hindu women will often host gatherings to be adorned in an ornate form of body art known by this name, that utilizes a brown dye obtained from the dried leaves of a certain plant.
the forehead [prompt on the face or head]
marriage [or wedding]
mehndi [or mehendi; or henna]
Members of this community eat shoofly pie for breakfast and socialize at community gatherings called “frolics.” For 10 points each:
Name this community of American-based Mennonites who avoid using modern technology and wear 18th century clothing. Their largest settlement is in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.
Some Amish communities have begun using modern power tools to construct these buildings, which are sometimes built in under an hour by Amish during a communal ceremony known as their “raising.”
Most Amish teenagers experiment with modern technology as part of this Amish coming-of-age period, during which they are separated from their families and allowed to explore the outside world.
Amish [or Pennsylvania Dutch]
barns
rumpsringa
Answer the following about a common series of rituals in Hinduism, for 10 points each.
One of these rituals dedicated to Lakshmi occurs on the third day of Diwali. This class of general rituals are frequently performed in the household.
The Lakshmi puja occurs on the last day of this month of the Hindu calendar. This is also the name of a pair of twin brothers who represent the rising and setting sun.
After the Lakshmi puja, Hindu children often celebrate with sparklers, one of many reasons Diwali is known as the “festival of” this concept.
puja [or pooja]
Ashwin [or the Ashvins]
lights &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
The founder of this movement wrote a work whose name translates as the “tip of the writing brush.” For 10 points each:
Name this new religious movement, whose adherents promote giving to the community in order to achieve the “Joyous Life.”
Tenrikyo is a “new religion” popular in this country. The majority of Zen Buddhists hail from this country.
Other Japanese new religious movements include this cult, whose founder Shoko Asahara was executed by hanging for a 1995 crime committed by this cult’s devotees.
Tenrikyo [accept Tenriism]
Japan [accept Nippon or Nihon]
Aum Shinrikyo [or Aleph] &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
You want to become a Christian theologist when you grow up. Answer the following about some things you might study, for 10 points each.
As a budding hamartiology student, your primary area of focus would be this concept. The seven deadly examples of this concept include lust and gluttony.
Sin starts to bore you, so you instead settle on this subfield of Christian theology that is concerned with the end of the world.
You eventually take great interest in the writings of Luis del Alcázar. You therefore align yourself with this view that some of the apocalyptic events prophesied (“PROFF-uh-sighed”) in the Bible have already occured.
sin
eschatology
partial preterism &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
Ancient members of this group include the Atharvan, and their chief is known as a Dastur. For 10 points each:
Name this group of people, some of whom watch over substances like the Atash Behram inside of buildings that must be built next to a source of clean water.
Zoroastrian priests oversee the atar, a sacred variety of this substance, which is housed in namesake temples that serve as the central places of Zoroastrian worship.
Zoroastrians use this specific word to denote their worship services. This word also names the 72-chapter sacred text that is recited during the services.
Zoroastrian priests [accept equivalents like Zoroastrian clergy or specific answers such as Herbad or Mobed]
fire [accept flames]
Yasna &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
Answer the following about theological differences between the Eastern Orthodox and Catholic churches, for 10 points each.
Orthodox Christians use the word theotokos as a title for this Biblical woman, the wife of Joseph and Virgin mother of Christ.
Unlike Western churches, Orthodox churches usually use this oldest Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible as a basis for further translations. It takes its name from the number of scholars who originally ordered its translation.
The Catholic doctrine of this place is not recognized by Orthodox churches. Catholics often describe this place as full of cleansing fire.
the Virgin Mary, Mother of God
the Septuagint [or the Translation of the Seventy]
purgatory &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
Though Sikhs are not religiously bound to this doctrine, all food served at a Sikh gurdwara follows it in order to cater to members of all faiths. For 10 points each:
Name this sometimes-religious doctrine of not consuming meat.
This Sikh guru founded the Khalsa order, whose members are prohibited from eating meat from animals whose slaughter is perceived as inhumane. He was the final human guru.
Members of the Khalsa use this specific word to describe meat slaughtered in the style of the Jews and Muslims. Meat described by this adjective is forbidden, unlike jhatka meat.
vegetarianism [accept lacto vegetarian]
Guru Gobind Singh [prompt on partial answer]
kutha meat [or kuttha meat] &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
A portable one of these buildings carried around during festivals is known as a <em>mikoshi</em>, and they contain a central <em>honden</em> (“HOHN-den”) that is generally closed to the public. For 10 points each:
Name these religious buildings that harbor kami. One of these buildings in Ise (“ee-say”) is torn down and rebuilt anew every 20 years.
Shinto shrine maidens often perform kagura, a ritual form of this general action. That tradition originates with Ame-No-Uzume, who did this action to help lure Amaterasu out of her cave.
According to Shinto tradition, all of the gods gather at this oldest Shinto shrine every October. It is dedicated to the kami Ōkuninushi.
Shinto shrines [or jinja; accept English equivalents like Shinto temples]
dancing [accept word forms]
Izumo Shrine [accept Izumo-taisha or Izumo Ōyashiro] &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
The first person to translate this work into English was John Chalmers, and it was also translated by Ursula K. LeGuin. For 10 points each:
Name this famously difficult-to-translate work. The first of its 81 chapters opens with a declaration that “the name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name.”
Difficult-to-translate phrases in the Tao Te Ching include the words for this pivotal Taoist concept, which is often described as “action through inaction.”
The Tao is represented by this interlocking black-and-white symbol whose components represent opposing forces like light and darkness.
the Tao Te Ching [or the Dao De Jing]
wu wei (“woo way”)
yin and yang &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
On this holiday, some congregations will read the Martyrology, a description of how 10 great rabbis were tortured and killed by the Roman Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish “Day of Atonement” that takes place 10 days after Rosh Hashanah.
This Aramaic chant whose name means “All Vows” is sung on the night that begins Yom Kippur.
This poem is sung on both Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur while the Ark of the Torah is open. This poem’s second paragraph states “on Rosh Hashanah it is written, on Yom Kippur it is sealed,” and poses questions about who will live or die in the coming year.
Yom Kippur
Kol Nidrei
Unetaneh Tokef (“oon-tah-NEH TOH-keff”) &lt;RR, Beliefs - Religion&gt;
The temple that houses this relic also served as the royal quarters for the Kingdom of Kandy. For 10 points each:
Name this relic that was taken by Khema from a funeral pyre. It is currently enshrined in a namesake temple complex in Sri Lanka.
Other notable Buddhist buildings include these structures, which take the form of tiered towers. A so-called “Iron” one of these structures is located in Kaifeng (“kai-FUNG”).
This country’s Shwedagon Pagoda holds relics from four past Buddhas. Buddhists in this country have led the persecution of the mostly-Muslim Rohingya people.
the tooth of Gautama Buddha [prompt on tooth by asking “of whom?”]
pagodas
Myanmar [or Burma] &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
Answer the following about the myths and legends of the Yoruba (“YOH-roo-bah”) people, for 10 points each.
The Yoruba worship these deities, the human incarnations of divine spirits. Their ranks include the axe-wielding lightning deity Shango.
When the orisha Obatala got drunk off palm wine, his brother Oduduwa had to take his place and create this ancient Nigerian city, the holiest site of the Yoruba people.
Yoruba legends were brought to the Americas, where they formed the basis for traditions like Candomblé, by these types of people. People with this status were guided by the mythical Peg Leg Joe on the Underground Railroad.
orisha [or Orixá; or Orichá]
Ile-Ife (“ee-lay ee-FEH”)
slaves &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
A series of vandalism incidents against mosques in Malaysia were caused by a court decision that upheld a ban on the use of this word by Malaysia’s Christians. For 10 points each:
Give this Arabic word for the God of the Abrahamic religions. Evangelicals like to claim that the God referred to by this word is the same as the pagan lunar deity Hubal.
This Arab tribe worshipped a handful of pagan deities, including Hubal, until Muhammad, himself a member of this tribe, returned from Medina to convert them to Islam.
This is the most commonly used of the 99 names of God mentioned in the Quran. It also gives its name to the 55th sura of the Quran.
Allah [do not accept or prompt on any other answers]
Quraysh
Ar-Rahman [accept translations like “the most merciful” or other equivalents] &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
A text written as teachings from this figure to a group of sages is known as his namesake “Laws.” For 10 points each:
Name this figure, a son of Brahma who was warned of an impending flood by Vishnu in the form of the giant fish Matsya.
The Laws of Manu illustrate the Vedic caste system, in which this Sanskrit word is used to denote each class. Examples of groups denoted by this word include the priestly Brahmins and the laborer Shudras.
Manu served as this figure in Hindu mythology. Other examples of these figures include the Persian Gayomart and Adam.
Manu
varṇa
the first human [or first man] &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
So-called “hell bank notes” are burned in tribute to these people, who return to Earth during the seventh month of the year. For 10 points each:
Name these people who are housed in spirit tablets. Tributes to these people are offered on a holiday that follows the three-day Cold Food Festival.
This largest ethnic group in the world, and the majority ethnicity of Singapore and Taiwan, practices those rituals of ancestor worship.
Chinese people burn joss paper and visit the gravesites of their ancestors during this festival. Valuable varieties of green tea are labeled for being picked before the day of this event.
deceased ancestors [accept anything pertaining to dead family members]
Han Chinese [prompt on Chinese]
Qingming Festival [or Ching Ming Festival; or Tomb-Sweeping Day; accept pre-Qingming Longjing] &lt;DM, Religion&gt;
This term is sometimes translated as “mere breath,” or “vapor.” For 10 points each:
Give this Hebrew word from a text whose opening states that “all is” this word. The question “what do people gain from all their labors at which they toil under the sun?” comes immediately after that statement.
The term hevel is frequently used in this Old Testament book that follows Proverbs. The author of this book introduces himself as Qoheleth and states that “to everything there is a season.”
Qoheleth, the author of Ecclesiastes, is likely this biblical king, the son of David and builder of the First Temple.
hevel (“HEH-vell”) [or hebel]
Ecclesiastes
Solomon &lt;YFL, Religion&gt;
This figure declared himself “He whom God shall make manifest” in the Garden of Ridvan. For 10 points each:
Name this religious figure who had a vision of the beauty of God while imprisoned in Tehran. This man followed a figure who had a name translating to “the Gate” and eighteen disciples that were called the Letters of the Living.
Bahá’u’lláh [“buh-HA-oo-lah”] founded this religion that uses a calendar with 19 months of 19 days each. This religion is governed by the Universal House of Justice.
Bahá’u’lláh received a vision of one of these figures “of Heaven” while imprisoned in Tehran. Al-Bukhari collected one of the hadiths that describes these figures as having large eyes and skin so transparent that their bone marrow is visible.
Bahá’u’lláh [or Baha Allah; or Mirza Husayn Ali Nuri]
Bahá’í Faith [or Baha’iyyah]
heavenly maidens [or houris; or the Maid of Heaven; or virgins from paradise; or ḥūrīyah] &lt;YFL Religion&gt;
This man loses his seven sons, his three daughters, and all of his wealth because God allows Satan to test him. For 10 points each:
Name this man from the Land of Uz whose namesake book of the Bible includes his discussions with his friends Zophar, Eliphaz, and Bildad about his trials.
God appears to Job and his friends via one of these phenomena. God asks Job, “where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth?” from within one of these things.
Chapter 28 of Job is a poetic interlude about where this concept is found. It ends by saying that “the fear of the Lord is [this concept], and to turn away from evil is understanding.”
Job [or Iyov]
whirlwind [or equivalents such as a tempest, typhoon, winds, clouds, or storm]
wisdom &lt;YFL Religion&gt;
A Jack Chick tract popularized Robert Morey’s insane theory that Allah was originally a god of this object. For 10 points each:
Name this celestial object that appears with a star on the flags of Turkey and several other Muslim countries. The Islamic calendar is derived from the periods of this object.
In response to the Quraysh tribe’s request for him to perform a miracle, Muhammad is said to have caused the Moon to undergo this action.
A pre-Islam Arabic god sometimes associated with the Moon, Hubal, was worshipped at the location of this building. The Black Stone is located at the eastern corner of this building, which is circled seven times during a hajj.
the Moon [prompt on the crescent]
splitting in two [accept synonyms]
Kaaba &lt;JB Religion&gt;
The <em>abhisheka</em>, a bathing of the central object in substances such as ghee, water, and sesame oil, is one step of this ritual. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the Hindu ritual of worshipping a god, usually performed before an image at home or in a temple.
Food offered to a god during a puja is referred to by this Sanskrit term. It is typically eaten by the worshippers after the puja as a symbol of the divine blessing.
The burning of sticks of this stuff, called dhupa, is a common feature of pujas. These substances that produce a sweet smelling smoke when burned include myrrh resin.
puja
prasada
incense &lt;JB Religion&gt;
Some objects hung in these locations have genitalia inscribed on them for fertility prayers. For 10 points each:
Name these locations where small wooden plaques called ema [“eh-mah”] are hung and ritually burned at certain events to release wishes from their writer. Those objects replaced the practice of donating horses for good favor to these places.
Shinto shrines are found in this country where Shinto originates from. The Ise Grand Shrine in this country is dedicated to Amaterasu and destroyed and rebuilt every 20 years.
Kagura literally means “god-entertainment” and is the Shinto tradition of this activity which derives from the practice of kami-gakari and was originally performed by shrine maidens called miko.
Shinto shrines [accept kami shrines; prompt on just shrine without mention of Shinto; accept jinja; accept jingu; accept honden; accept haiden; accept shinsha]
Japan [or Nippon; or Nihon]
dancing [or dance] &lt;YFL Religion&gt;
The Haggadah credits this man with placing bitter herbs between two pieces of matzoh to create his namesake sandwich. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish sage of the second century A.D. whose debates with Shammai are a common subject of rabbinic literature. He is the namesake of a foundation that sponsors Jewish campus organizations.
Hillel legendarily explained this text while standing on one foot by stating the golden rule. This holy text of Judaism consists of the first five books of the Bible.
Hillel is credited with organizing these six sections of the Mishnah, which include the “Zeraim” and “Moed.”
Hillel
the Torah [prompt on the Pentateuch]
sedarim [or seder; prompt on orders] &lt;JB Religion&gt;
In a dialect sometimes called Livalect or Wordsound, this letter replaces the “c” in “creation” and the “u” in unity. For 10 points each:
Name this letter ubiquitous in a religious movement’s dialect, in which it is the first letter in the name of a system that forbids added salt and fish longer than 12 inches.
I-talk, or Iyaric, is a dialect used by some members of this Jamaican religion, whose members follow the I-tal diet, refer to their god Jah as “I &amp; I,” and smoke ganja.
Iyaric replaces the word “me” with “I” because the former is associated with this decadent and evil metaphorical kingdom synonymous with Western society. Rastas contrast this domain with “Zion.”
I
Rastafari movement [or Rastafarianism]
Babylon &lt;JB Religion&gt;
This religious official holds the highest position in the Gelug school of Buddhism. For 10 points each:
Name this religious title. The fifth holder of this title began the construction of the Potala Palace, where the rest of the holders of this title have resided.
The Potala Palace is located in this region, where the Dalai Lama normally resides and serves as a spiritual leader. Tenzin Gyatso, the current Dalai Lama, is currently living in India on exile from this region.
The Potala Palace takes its name from the mountain where this deity lives, Mount Potalaka. This earthly manifestation of Amitabha is the bodhisattva of infinite compassion and became the female figure Guanyin in Chinese Buddhism.
Dalai Lama [prompt on Lama]
Tibet [or Tibetan Plateau; or Bod; or Zangqu]
Avalokiteśvara [or Avalokiteshvara; or Lokesvara; or Lokanatha; or Kannon; or Kanzeon; be generous about pronunciation] &lt;YFL Religion&gt;
The Sassoon family are leaders of this country’s confusingly-named sect of Baghdadi Jews. For 10 points each:
Name this country also home to the Bene Israel. Its oldest Jewish community, which is centered on a southwestern city, is believed to descend from sailors of Solomon’s era.
The Bene Israel of the Bombay area claim to be one of the “lost” Israeli groups of this sort. The twelve groups of this sort in Ancient Israel claimed descent from the twelve sons of Jacob.
Traditions of the Cochin Jews have influenced those of an Indian Christian community named after this apostle, who is said to have brought Christianity to India.
India
tribes of Israel [accept shvatim or shivtei yisrael]
Saint Thomas &lt;JB Religion&gt;
The Nicene Creed rejects this view, declaring the Son to be “consubstantial” with the Father. For 10 points each:
Name this heresy attributed to a student of Lucian of Antioch. It asserts that the Son is distinct from and subordinate to the Father, and its variants include its Eunomian and Homoian types.
Arians reject this Catholic doctrine that holds that there is “one God in three Divine Persons.” This “Holy” term is used to refer to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
The entire Trinity is often considered to have manifested during this event, during which the words “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” were heard. This event is not directly depicted in the Gospel of John.
Arianism
Trinity
the baptism of Jesus [or Jesus being baptized; or John baptizing Jesus; prompt on incomplete answers like “a baptism” or “Jesus being covered in water”] &lt;JK Religion&gt;
A Christian anarchist tract by Leo Tolstoy takes its title from Jesus’s statement that this concept “is within you.” For 10 points each:
Name this metaphorical domain from the New Testament. Jesus states that “it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter” this place.
This gospel named for this apostle is the only one to use the term “kingdom of heaven” instead of “kingdom of God.” The gospel of this name is followed by Mark and Luke, the other two synoptic gospels.
A bizarre passage of this text states “For every woman who will make herself male will enter the kingdom of heaven.” The introduction to this Gnostic text found at Nag Hammadi states “These are the hidden words that the living Jesus spoke.”
kingdom of God [or kingdom of heaven; prompt on heaven]
Matthew
Gospel of Thomas [or Gospel According to Thomas; prompt on Thomas; do not accept or prompt on “The Infancy Gospel of Thomas”] &lt;JB Religion&gt;
Books by Raphael Patai and William Dever used archaeological evidence to argue for the existence of this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this role that Asherah had before it was removed from the Bible according to one theory. This figure is an infrequently-discussed part of official Mormon doctrine.
Books such as Merlin Stone’s When God Was a Woman have advanced the idea that monotheistic societies replaced goddess-worshipping societies of this sort. Women hold power in these societies, in contrast to patriarchies.
The theory of a transition away from Goddess worship was also discussed by this man on the PBS documentary series The Power of Myth. He also wrote The Hero with a Thousand Faces and The Masks of God.
God’s wife [or equivalents of God’s consort; or the Heavenly Mother; or the Mother in Heaven; accept Yahweh in place of “God”]
matriarchal societies [or matriarchies]
Joseph Campbell &lt;JB Religion&gt;
After Abbasid caliph al-Ma’mun adopted the Mu’tazila doctrine on this issue, he had ibn Hanbal executed for his traditionalist stance on it. For 10 points each:
Name this point of dispute in Islamic theology that concerns whether a certain entity is co-eternal with Allah or if it was brought into existence by Him.
The body that al-Ma’mun created to ensure adherence with the createdness doctrine, known as the mihna, is often considered the Islamic analogue of this European institution. In Spain, it condemned heretics to auto-da-fés.
The century after ibn Hanbal’s death, the Abbasid government had a member of this group, Al-Hallaj, executed for proclaiming “I am the Truth.” The Mevlevi sect of this group uses dance as a form of dhikr [“thicker”].
the (un)createdness of the Qur’an [accept any answers indicating the question of whether the Qur’an was (un)created]
the Inquisition
Sufis &lt;JB Religion&gt;
He Xian’gu [“huh sh’yen-goo”] ate powdered mica and became immortal because of one of these phenomena. For 10 points each:
Name these things, one of which Lü Dongbin experienced while cooking a yellow millet fish.
He Xian’gu and Lü Dongbin are members of this group of deities, along with Zhongli Quan [“jong-lee ch’wen”] and Iron-Crutch Li. Members of this group of deities possess people in a game played during the Mid-Autumn Festival.
The Eight Immortals are revered in this Chinese religion that emphasizes wu wei, holds the Three Jewels as virtues, and uses the yin-yang symbol.
dreams
Eight Immortals
Taoism [or Daoism] &lt;YFL Mythology&gt;
The description of this structure is broken down into “four homologous ideological maps” in Jonathan Z. Smith’s <em>To Take Place</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this imaginary structure whose measurements are scrupulously provided in cubits in a vision presented in chapters 40 through 48 of an Old Testament book.
The second religious structure discussed in To Take Place is the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, which is located in this city where the Second Temple and Solomon’s Temple stood.
The first map of Ezekiel’s Temple that Smith presents depicts a hierarchy of power based on this dichotomy. Mircea Eliade’s major work is titled for these two adjectives, which respectively describe the holy and the everyday.
Ezekiel’s Temple [or the Third Temple; or the Fourth Temple; prompt on the Jewish Temple]
Jerusalem
the sacred AND the profane &lt;JB Religion&gt;
Guy and Edna Ballard founded a religious movement named for these two words that believes in beings called “Ascended Masters.” For 10 points each:
Name these two words. They are the second and third words in the English translation of a Hebrew word used to respond to the divine in several places in the Old Testament, such as when Moses answers the call from the burning bush.
The “I Am” Movement takes its name from Soham, a Hindu phrase of this type that means “I am that.” The om syllable is a popular example of these sacred utterances that are repeated during meditation.
Shiva instructs Maitreya to pray with the thought “I am he” in the Maitreya one of these sacred Hindu texts. Another one of these texts repeats the refrain “tat tvam asi,” meaning “thou art that.”
I am [accept “here I am”; accept “I Am” Movement; prompt on hineni]
mantras
Upanishads &lt;JB Religion&gt;
Initiates in this religion are inducted through the Navjote ceremony, which is still practiced by Parsees. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient monotheistic religion that was the official religion of Persia from 600 BC to 650 AD. Practitioners of this religion traditionally kept their dead on Towers of Silence.
The Amesha Spenta are the six “divine sparks” of this creator deity in Zoroastrianism, who opposes the evil spirit Angra Mainyu and the devas.
Most Zoroastrian sacred texts are written in this liturgical language, an Indo-European language closely related to Old Persian. Today, this language is primarily typeset in the Gujarati script.
Zoroastrianism
Ahura Mazda
Avestan [or Zend]
Apples dipped in honey are usually served on this holiday, during which the shofar is blown around one hundred times. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday that occurs on the first month of Tishrei, known as the Jewish New Year.
This holiday, known as the Persian New Year, is preceded by observance of the Festival of Fire and spring cleaning of people’s houses. This holiday is celebrated on the vernal equinox and has Zoroastrian origins.
The Islamic New Year is celebrated on the day of the hijra, in which the prophet Muhammad traveled from this city to Medina. This city is the site of the Great Mosque.
Rosh Hashanah [or Yom Teruah]
Nowruz
Mecca
The “Dvaita” and “Advaita” forms of this school represent dualism and nondualism, respectively. For 10 points each:
Name this school of Hindu philosophy that emphasizes inquiry into the Atman and Brahman. It literally means “end of the Vedas” in Sanskrit.
Like many other schools of Hindu thought, Vedanta believes that this cycle of birth and death is caused by doing action, or karma. This cycle is known as samsara [sam-SA-ra] in Sanskrit.
A person who has mumukshutva [mu-MOO-kshu-tvaa] desires this process of freedom from bondage from the world and from samsara. According to Vedanta, this word, which means “liberation,” is the ultimate goal of life.
Vedanta
reincarnation [or transmigration of souls; or metempsychosis]
moksha [or nirvana; or mukti]
King Herod orders the Massacre of the Innocents after he sends these people to find a young boy. For 10 points each:
Name this group, whose members are known as Melchior, Caspar, and Balthazar. A visit by these people is celebrated on Epiphany.
The Magi came from the “East” to visit this infant. He was born in Bethlehem, and his birth is celebrated on Christmas.
The Magi were said to have been martyred and buried in a shrine in this building. This Gothic cathedral, located in Germany, is the largest twin-spired cathedral in the world.
biblical Magi [or the three Magi; or Three Wise Men; or Three Kings]
Jesus Christ [accept either]
Cologne Cathedral
This religion’s scripture claims that after Jesus was resurrected, he visited the Nephites, an Israelite people who had emigrated to the Americas. For 10 points each:
Name this religion, which was founded by Joseph Smith after he was visited by the angel Moroni.
Ahmadiyya Muslims believe that Jesus survived crucifixion and died at the age of 120 before his burial in the Roza Bal shrine in this country. This country is also home to the White Minaret in its city of Qadian (ka-DYE-en).
According to the Gospels, this man and Nicodemus buried the body of Jesus after his crucifixion. This man, who was from Arimathea, legendarily helped spread the Gospel in Britain.
Mormonism [or the Mormon Church; or the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints; or Church of the LDS]
India
Saint Joseph of Arimathea
This rabbi put forth 13 principles of faith to summarize Jewish theology. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher and polymath whose Guide for the Perplexed seeks to reconcile the Old Testament with Aristotelianism. He is also known as Rambam.
Maimonides wrote a commentary on this text, a collection of Jewish oral traditions. Commentary on this text is found in the Gemara, which, along with this text, makes up the Talmud.
Maimonides was born in Cordoba, a great center of learning in this country. Many Sephardic Jews who lived in this country on the Iberian Peninsula were expelled in 1492.
Moses Maimonides [or Moses ben Maimon]
Mishnah [do not accept or prompt on “Mishneh” or “Mishneh Torah”]
Spain
This statement is defined as a “declaration of faith” that is essential for someone who is converting to Islam. For 10 points each:
Name this first pillar of Islam that states, “There is no God but Allah and Muhammad is his messenger.”
Another pillar of Islam involves observing this practice, known as sawm. This practice is observed during times such as Ramadan and is broken before sunrise and after sunset.
The Five Pillars of Islam are based off a hadith named for this archangel, who revealed the Quran to Muhammad.
Shahada
fasting [or equivalents such as not eating]
Gabriel [or Jibril]
On this holiday, the youngest child is responsible for singing the Four Questions. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday that begins with a Seder and celebrates the Jews’ exodus from Egypt.
This action, often accompanied by the prayer netilat yadayim (ne-til-AT YA-da-yeem), is performed during the Passover Seder. Performing this action requires a special two-handled cup.
At the end of the Seder, children search for a hidden piece of this thing called the afikoman. When the preparation of this thing is specially supervised, it is known as “Shmurah.”
Passover [or Pesach]
ritual washing [or handwashing; or washing hands or equivalents]
matzo [or matzah; prompt on bread]
Constantine the Great called for this event, which was preceded over by Hosius of Cordoba. For 10 points each:
Name this ecumenical council that took place in 325 CE. This event names a creed that forms a notable part of the modern Christian liturgy.
The First Council of Nicaea notably set a uniform date for the observance of this holiday, instead of being linked to the date of Passover. This holiday, always on a Sunday, celebrates the resurrection of Jesus from the dead.
The First Council of Nicaea and the later First Council of Constantinople denounced this Christian heresy. Unlike Catholicism, this heresy claimed that Christ is distinct from, and subordinate to, the Holy Father.
First Council of Nicaea
Easter Sunday [or Pascha]
Arianism
Important texts in this religion include the <em>Book of Certitude</em> and <em>The Dawn-Breakers.</em> For 10 points each:
Identify this religion that believes in progressive revelation, and whose founder Bahá’u’lláh [BA-ha-U-la] claimed to be the most recent of divine messengers including the Buddha, Zoroaster, Jesus, and Muhammad.
The main governing body of the Bahá’í Faith is the Universal House of Justice, located in the city of Haifa in this Middle East country. This country contains the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel.
This man was appointed by `Abdu’l-Bahá to be the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith from 1921 until his death in 1957. He helped form many Spiritual Assemblies and increased worldwide Bahá’í membership to over 400,000.
Bahá’í Faith
Israel
Shoghi Effendi Rabbání [prompt on “Effendi”]
These entities can be called down by mambos or houngans, after which they possess people by “mounting the horse.” For 10 points each:
Name these figures. They include Damballa, who is embodied as a serpent, and Ogoun, the spirit of war and metals.
Loa are venerated in this syncretic religion that is popular in Louisiana and Haiti. Veves are drawn by practitioners of this religion, who don’t actually stick pins in this religion’s namesake dolls.
In Voodoo, the loa are considered subservient to this unapproachable supreme god. This figure’s name originally comes from the French words for “good” and “God.”
loas
Haitian Voodoo [or Vodoun]
Bondye
A “Church” of this figure, whose members describe themselves as “skeptical atheists,” was founded by Anton LaVey. For 10 points each:
Give this common name of the devil. According to Islam, a figure with this name is a fallen angel who refused to bow to Adam.
This other name can refer either to the Devil or one of the demons in Hell. It is literally translated as “Lord of the Flies.”
The origin of Beelzebub could be in 2 Kings, in which King Ahaziah consults the God Ba‘al Zebûb and is then condemned by this prophet. This prophet is taken to heaven in a whirlwind after the appearance of a chariot of fire.
Satan [or Shaitan]
Beelzebub
Elijah
This system of thought is one of the five religions legally recognized by the People’s Republic of China. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese religion and philosophical system, mythologically founded by the sage Lao Tzu. Its eponymous concept is sometimes translated as the “Way.”
This foundational text of Daoism discusses topics such as the “mysterious female” and the role of empty space in the function of a wheel, and is attributed to Lao Tzu.
Daoism contains many texts that describe the “internal” and “external” types of this practice, referred to as neidan and waidan. This practice commonly involves creating special elixirs.
Daoism [or Taoism; accept Tao or Dao]
Dao De Jing [or Tao Te Ching]
alchemy
This collection of texts is known as “three baskets,” as it contains the Vinaya [vin-AA-yah], Sutta [SOO-taa], and Abhidhamma [a-bhi-DHAM-ma] Pitakas [pi-ta-KAS]. For 10 points each:
Name this standard collection of traditional scriptures from Theravada Buddhism.
The Pali Canon is written in Pali, which is descended from this ancient language. This Indian language, which uses the Devanagari [deva-NA-giri] alphabet, was used to write down the Vedas and Upanishads in Hinduism.
The Pali Canon was written down in the Fourth Buddhist Council in this country. This country’s city of Khandy [cun-DEE], which contains the Temple of the Tooth, is known as Mahanuwara in Sinhalese.
Pali Canon [or Tripitaka; or Tipitaka]
Sanskrit
Sri Lanka
The first two members of this group abandoned their previous job after being told they would become “fishers of men.” For 10 points each:
Name this group of people who were the closest followers of Jesus. They dined with Jesus at the Last Supper.
This apostle is said to have written a gospel in which he claims to be the “disciple whom Jesus loved.” His namesake gospel begins, “In the beginning was the Word.”
The prologue of the Gospel of John identifies Jesus with the “Word,” which comes from this Greek term. This term is used to emphasize Christ’s divinity in formulations of the Trinity.
Twelve Apostles [prompt on the twelve Disciples]
John the Apostle
logos
This woman was instructed to shake the trunk of a palm tree while giving birth. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, given the title Mustafia or “She who was chosen,” who gave birth to Jesus despite being kept pure “from the touch of man.”
The aforementioned description of Mary is present in this religious text. This book also describes Mary as being the daughter of Imran in a chapter dedicated to her, called the “Surat Maryam.”
The Council of Ephesus rejected Nestorius’ claim that Mary could not be referred to by this title. This title common in Eastern Orthodox iconography roughly translates to “bearer of God.”
Mary [or Maryam; accept the Virgin Mary]
the Qur’an [or Koran]
Theotokos
In Islam, public adoption of this status is limited by the boundaries of the <em>awrah</em>, which describes an area of the body from the naval to the knees. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice that gymnosophists engaged in freely. Some Christian naturists observe this practice in emulation of Adam and Eve’s lifestyle in the Garden of Eden before the Fall.
In Jainism and this faith, the term “sky-clad” describes people practicing religious nudity. Adherents of this faith are instructed to “be naked in your rites” in the Charge of the Goddess.
In one story, this man goes out among his servant girls in a state of undress, and is reproached for this by his wife, Michal. He conquers a stronghold of the Jebusites and makes it his capital.
nudity [or equivalents involving being undressed]
Wicca [prompt on Neopaganism]
David &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
This religious movement was the subject of a study by anthropologist James Mooney. For 10 points each:
Name this religious movement begun by Wovoka after seeing a solar eclipse.
Ghost Dance believers thought that their shirts would make them impervious to bullets, drawing comparisons to this Chinese rebel group that the US joined an 1899 intervention against. They were given their common name in English from their symbol of fists.
Some reports indicate that members of this religious group adopted Ghost Dance practices. Eber Howe wrote a book criticizing this religious group that promoted theories about Solomon Spalding.
Ghost Dance movement
Boxers [prompt on Society of Harmonious Fists by asking for the common name]
Mormons [accept members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or members of the LDS Church; prompt on Christians] &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
Answer the following about the Social Gospel, for 10 points each.
Social Gospel writer Charles Weldon popularized this four-word question with the subtitle of his book In His Steps. It may be used to assess one’s behavior in comparison to that of Christ.
Social Gospel believers were considered “post-” this belief, meaning that they thought the Kingdom of God had to be established before the Second Coming. This term generally refers to belief that Jesus will establish the reign of God’s kingdom for a thousand years.
Social Gospel folks contributed to this movement, which called for rich and poor people to live together in interdependent urban communities. It was kicked off by vicar Samuel Augustus Barnett founding Toynbee Hall.
What would Jesus do? [or WWJD]
millenialism [or millenarianism]
settlement movement [or settlement house movement] &lt;WA, Rel&gt;
Any item that is not granted this status is labelled <em>treyf</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this code of Jewish dietary law or the adjective indicating foods acceptable under this code of law, which forbids eating things like pigs and shellfish.
Fish must have these two characteristics in order to be considered kosher. As a result, sharks and eels are not considered kosher.
Jews do not eat the gid hanasheh [GEED hah-nah-SHEH], or sciatic nerve, in any animal, and have not ever since this man was wounded on that part of his body in a fight with a mysterious stranger.
kosher [or kashrut]
fins AND scales [accept in either order]
Jacob [or Ya‘akov; or Israel; or Yisra’el] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
The puja dedicated to this specific Hindu goddess may include celebrants dancing with dhunuchi incense burners as part of aarti. For 10 points each:
Name this fierce, invincible aspect of Parvati whose namesake puja is sometimes called Dashain [dah-shah-een]. This goddess rides a tiger and carries weapons with her ten arms.
Another common aspect of puja is this sort of offering, in which some food is shared with the relevant god and then consumed by worshippers.
In the ritual of parikrama, people do this to a sacred relic or religious site. Muslims on hajj do this counter-clockwise seven times to the Kaaba in the ritual of tawaf. A description is acceptable.
Durga [prompt on Kali or Devi]
prasada [note: often pronounced pruh-SHAD]
walking around [or circumambulate; or circle it; accept equivalents] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
Ahmed Deedat was given the King Faisal Award in 1986 for his extensive work as one of these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people who attempt to spread religions to new regions.
This Arabic name is given to Muslim missionary activity and proselytizing, such as that of Deedat. It literally means “invitation,” as it refers to inviting people to do good in the name of Allah.
People who perform dawah often highlight the roles of early women in Islam, such as this last wife of Muhammad, and may deal with questions about her marriage to Muhammad at age six.
missionaries [or missionary; accept but DO NOT REVEAL da’i]
dawah
Aisha &lt;WA, Rel&gt;
A member of this group set to music a chant that begins with the words “govindam âdi purusham tam aham bhajami.” For 10 points each:
Name this modern religious movement that is popularly referred to by the first two words of the Maha Mantra. Its adherents included George Harrison.
A “great” pope is the namesake of this tradition of liturgical chant, which is the most prevalent in Western Christianity.
In some Chinese folk traditions, chanting the name of the Buddha is a way to appease these beings, which are a local version of pretas. They are particularly unhappy pretas, often because they haven’t been venerated by their family enough.
Hare Krishnas [or the International Society for Krishna Consciousness; or ISKCON]
Gregorian chant [accept Pope Gregory the Great]
hungry ghosts [or hungry ancestors; or èguǐ [uh-gway]; prompt on ghosts or guǐ or ancestors] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
This group’s version of the Pentateuch has about 6,000 differences from the Jewish one, though most of these are grammar changes. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient ethno-religious group from Israel. A “good” member of this faith cares for a wounded stranger.
This is the holiest site for members of the Samaritan religion. In Deuteronomy, Moses commands for his people to make a curse upon Mount Ebal and a blessing upon this landmark.
The best-known non-Biblical Samaritan, Baba Rabba, held this position in the Samaritan community. After the extinction of the line of Eleazer, Samaritans who hold this position have been from the descendants of Ithamar, the youngest son of Aaron.
Samaritans
Mount Gerizim
High Priest [or Kohen Gadol; prompt on priest] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
After his disciples asked him why he used these things, Jesus responded, “Though seeing, they do not see; though hearing, they do not hear or understand.” For 10 points each:
Name these teaching tools that include one about a Prodigal Son.
In his explanation, Jesus is apparently fulfilling this prophet’s similarly worded prophecy on using parables. This prophet may have also predicted John the Baptist in saying “A voice of one calling: ‘In the wilderness prepare the way for the LORD.’”
This term is believed to be used metonymically for Jesus in four “songs” in Isaiah. Kings and Princes will bow down to this person “who was despised and abhorred by the nations.”
Parables of Jesus [prompt on Stories or similar answers]
Isaiah
the suffering servant &lt;JL, Rel&gt;
Guru Gobind Singh founded this group, and required them to do things such as avoiding alcohol and haircuts. For 10 points each:
Give this term that refers to the community of all observant Sikhs, whose members observe the Five Ks.
People are admitted to the khalsa after undergoing this ceremony in which they are purified with water. Guru Gobind Singh invited people to the first one of these ceremonies where he pretended to behead the participants.
The Mul Mantar begins this holy text of Sikhism. After the death of Guru Gobind Singh, this book became accepted as the eternal leader of the Sikh community.
khalsa
Amrit Sanchar [or Khande di Pahul; prompt on partial answer]
Guru Granth Sahib [or Adi Granth] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
The narrative of a near-death experience affecting this character is known in Hebrew as the Akedah [ah-kay-DAH]. For 10 points each:
Name this man who, in Jewish and Christian traditions, was nearly sacrificed as a child by his father Abraham in order to obey God’s command.
In this book, Jephthah accidentally vows to offer his own daughter as a burnt sacrifice in return for defeating the Ammonites. God does not grant him mercy, and the girl is killed.
Until the reign of Josiah, sacrifice to Canaanite gods took place in the Tophet, a location in this valley. More generally, this name is applied to the posthumous destination of Jewish sinners.
Isaac [or Yitzhak]
Book of Judges [or Sefer Shoftim]
Gehenna [or Gehinnom; or the Valley of Hinnom; or Gei ben Hinnom] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
The term upvas is used to describe this practice in Jain tradition, and it may take place during the Paryushan festival. For 10 points each:
Identify this religious practice, which is called sawm in Islam.
In the Bahá’í Faith, the fast of ‘Ala lasts for this many days. Devout Bahá’ís are required to send this percentage of their wealth to the Universal House of Justice.
Some people observe a vegetarian fast named after this Old Testament character, who refused the royal food of Nebuchadnezzar. This man later survived being thrown to lions, who did not eat him.
fasting [accept Ramadan fasting]
nineteen [or 19]
Daniel &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
Answer the following about the retranslation of the English version of the Roman Catholic mass, which took effect in 2011. For 10 points each:
The relationship between God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost is now described with this adjective. It is not to be confused with a doctrine about the Eucharist that begins with the prefix “trans-.”
One of the most noted, and most mistaken changes, is the replacement of “and also with you” with this four word English phrase. It is the response to “The Lord be with you.”
Despite the new translation taking effect in 2011, Liturgiam Authenticam, the directive ordering it, was written by this Polish Pope who reigned from 1978 until his death in 2005 when Benedict XVI took the throne.
consubstantial
And with your spirit [do not accept or prompt on any other answer. Direct all protests to the Vatican]
Pope Saint John Paul II [or Iohannes Paulus II; accept JP2; accept Saint Karol Józef Wojtyła; prompt on John Paul or Iohannes Paulus] &lt;JL, Rel&gt;
Although this policy has roots among 19th-century thinkers such as Morteza Ansari, its absolute form has been cited by the government of Iran as justification for authoritarian theocracy. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial Shia doctrine that states that experts in Islamic law are supposed to act as custodians for the population.
Absolute Guardianship of the Jurist was advanced by this thinker, whose fatwas encouraged Muslims to oppose chemical weapons, treat transgender people fairly, and murder Salman Rushdie.
The title “Ayatollah” translates as “the sign of God.” Ayat is a word used to designate these things, one of which is known as “al-Kursi” and occurs in al-Baqarah.
Guardianship of the (Islamic) Jurist [or Wilayat al-Faqih; or Velayat-e-Faqih; accept word forms such as Governance of the Jurist]
Ruhollah Mūsavi Khomeini [prompt on Ayatollah]
verses of the Qur’an [prompt on verses; do not accept or prompt on “chapters” or “suras”] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
While undergoing this punishment, three men are joined by a figure “with an appearance like the son of the gods.” For 10 points each:
What lethal punishment is assigned to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego after they refuse to bow down to King Nebuchadnezzar’s golden statue? The trio survives this punishment, astonishing the king.
The story of the fiery furnace occurs in this Old Testament book. The title prophet is himself later thrown into a den of lions but survives.
Daniel and his three friends first come to the king’s attention after they refuse to perform this action. Instead of growing weak, they prove themselves “ten times better” than others in the king’s service.
thrown into the fiery furnace [accept anything that suggests they are thrown into fire]
Book of Daniel
eating the royal food [or eating royal food; or drinking royal wine; accept “forbidden” or other synonyms for “royal”]
The seven corporal “works” described by this concept were inspired by the Judgement of the Nations, and include feeding the hungry and giving drink to the thirsty. For 10 points each:
Name this quality of kindness and forgiveness, a quality of God accepted through the sacrament of Reconciliation. Pope Francis proclaimed an Extraordinary Jubilee focusing on this concept in 2016.
Pope Francis officially opened the Jubilee when he opened this entrance to St. Peter’s Basilica, normally sealed with cement. Pilgrims who use designated entrances of this type are granted a plenary indulgence.
As part of the Jubilee celebration, World Youth Day 2016 took place in Kraków, Poland, as a tribute to this former Archbishop of Kraków. As pope, this man presided over the two previous Jubilee years in 1987 and 2000.
mercy
Holy Doors [or Porta Sancta]
John Paul II [or Karol Józef Wojtyła; prompt on “John Paul”; do not accept or prompt on “John” or “Paul” by themselves]
This prayer is among the texts written on the scrolls in the tefillin, in accordance with the commandment to “bind [these words] on your arm.” For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish prayer that proclaims, “The LORD is our God, the LORD is one.” It should be recited first thing in the morning and right before going to bed, and is also traditionally recited as one’s last words.
The Shema is also written on mezuzot, which are pieces of parchment placed in these locations in a Jewish home.
The Shema can be found in this fifth and last book of the Torah, which contains Moses’ words to the Jewish people before his death and the conquest of the Holy Land.
Shema Yisrael [prompt on Hear, O Israel]
doorways
Deuteronomy [or Devarim]
A teacher of this tradition wrote in the One-Sheet Document that anyone can achieve enlightenment if they practice nembutsu. For 10 points each:
Name this branch of Buddhism whose practitioners aim to be reborn in the namesake location in the west, where they will receive instruction to gain full enlightenment. Hōnen developed it as an independent sect in Japan.
This figure presides over the Pure Land, helping all that are reborn there achieve enlightenment. As a bodhisattva, he made forty-eight vows, including one that reciting his name would help one be reborn in the Pure Land.
Reciting the name of Amitābha is an example of this type of practice of repeating a sacred utterance, typically performed during meditation. A simple example of this is the syllable Om.
Pure Land Buddhism [accept Jōdo-shū or Jōdo Buddhism]
Amitābha [or Amida Butsu; or Emituofo]
mantra
The final judgment according to this religion will be brought about by the Saoshyant, in an event called the Frashokereti. For 10 points each:
Name this religion that worships Ahura Mazda, who is engaged in a struggle with Angra Mainyu.
In his creation, Ahura Mazda primarily promotes this concept, represented by the second of the Amesha Spenta. Contrasted with druj, it can be roughly translated as “truth” or “righteousness.”
Zoroastrian places of worship are temples characterized by this phenomenon, called atar. This sacred phenomenon was symbolically believed to reveal asha through a trial by ordeal.
Zoroastrianism
asha [or Asha Veshishta]
fire [accept fire temples]
One of these people named Jimmy Swaggart gave a tearful speech on national television claiming “I have sinned” in response to his habit of visiting prostitutes; three years later, caught in the same position, he bluntly told his followers “The Lord told me it’s flat none of your business.” For 10 points each:
Name these people, which include Oral Roberts and Joel Osteen. These people use mass media to reach a large number of viewers with their religious sermons.
Televangelist Pat Robertson claimed that the devastation caused by a 2010 event of this type in Haiti was because Haiti was “cursed” because they had “sworn a pact with the devil” to gain independence.
Barry Goldwater once stated that “every good Christian ought to kick” this televangelist and founder of Liberty University “right in the ass.” This man founded Moral Majority, a fundamentalist Christian political organization.
televangelists [or televangelism; prompt on evangelists; prompt on preachers; prompt on ministers; do not accept or prompt on answers indicating “priests” or “ the clergy”]
earthquake [accept 2010 Haiti earthquake]
Jerry Lamon Falwell, Sr. [do not accept or prompt on Jerry Falwell, Jr.]
In the eleventh chapter of this work, Krishna reveals himself in the form of the many-headed and many-armed Vishvarupa. For 10 points each:
Name this dialogue from the Mahabharata in which Krishna presents many arguments to Arjuna about his duties as a warrior on the eve of the Battle of Kurukshetra.
The opening of the Bhagavad Gita identifies the battlefield as the “field of” this Hindu concept, which describes the duties of each individual in relation with the rest of the universe.
In the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna discusses these spiritual practices that lead to liberation and the union of Atman with Brahman. The three main paths of this are karma, bhakti and jnana.
Bhagavad Gita
dharma
yoga
After reaching miqat on their way to this city, pilgrims must put on ihram. For 10 points each:
Name this city where pilgrims perform tawaf, walking around the Kaaba counterclockwise seven times, during the hajj. It is the holiest city in Islam.
After tawaf, many pilgrims stop by this well to take a drink. Now located within the Masjid al-Haram surrounding the Kaaba, it was first created by Gabriel to allow Ishmael to take a drink.
Men shave their hair on the third day of the hajj, which coincides with this Muslim holiday. This second Muslim holiday commemorates Abraham’s sacrifice of Ishmael.
Mecca [or Makka]
Well of Zamzam [or Zamzam Well]
Eid al-Adha [prompt on Eid]
This figure’s appearance will be signalled by black standards appearing from Khorasan. For 10 point each:
Name this “rightly guided one” that will establish a final caliphate after defeating the enemies of the Prophet. Twelver Shia Muslims believe that the twelfth and last imam will reappear as this figure.
The coming of the Mahdi is part of a series of events that will eventually culminate in this event at the end of the world, during which the resurrected dead will be each sent either to paradise or to hell.
This figure will help the Mahdi defeat Al-Masih ad-Dajjal, the false messiah, and he will succeed the Mahdi after his death. This figure and Enoch were the only two prophets not to have died, instead being assumed into heaven.
Mahdi
Day of Judgment [or Yawmuddin; or Last Judgment]
Jesus Christ [or Isa ibn Maryam]
In the Qur’an, the terms jurum, junah, haraj, khati’ah, dhanb, and ithm refer to these actions. For 10 points each:
Name these actions that the scholar al-Dhahabi classified as either al-sagha’ir or al-kaba’ir; the latter category of them includes zina and shirk.
Shirk is the sin of denying this core tenet of Islam concerning the nature of Allah. It is codified in the basic statement of Muslim belief, the shahada, which states this belief followed by “Muhammad is Allah’s prophet.”
Repentance of sin titles the ninth sura of the Qur’an, the at-Tawbah, which is the only one that does not begin with this opening phrase that translates as “in the name of God.”
sins [accept word forms such as sinning or sinners; prompt on “evil deeds” or “transgressions against Allah” or similar answers]
monotheism [or tawhid; accept Allah is the one God or there is no god but Allah or similar answers mentioning one God or oneness]
basmala [or bismillah; or bismillahi r-rahmani r-rahim]
This practice is encouraged for some Hindus to avoid tamas. For 10 points each:
Name this dietary practice compulsory to all Jains as an extension of the principle of ahimsa, or nonviolence. It is also practiced by some Buddhists in accordance with the First Precept.
This religion’s “Word of Wisdom” discourages eating meat except in extreme cases, such as during winter or during famine. It also contains a prohibition against “hot drinks,” which has been interpreted to mean coffee or tea.
While eating meat is not prohibited in Judaism, it is prohibited to eat meat along with this other type of food. Some Jewish households keep two sets of dishes in order to keep the two separate.
vegetarianism [or anything mentioning not eating meat; or obvious equivalents]
Mormonism [or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; or LDS Church]
milk [or dairy]
The Catholic document that provides guidelines for this action was last revised in 1999. For 10 points each:
Name this action taken to rid people of demons or other spirits possessing them. A “minor” one of these actions is performed before anointing a child during baptism.
Jesus performed an exorcism in the country of the Gerasenes on one or two men possessed by a group of demons known by this name. Jesus sent these demons into a nearby herd of pigs, who then drowned themselves.
This woman was described as having had seven demons exorcised from her. In three of the four gospels, she was the first person to see the resurrected Jesus, who told her not to touch him according to John.
exorcism [or word forms]
Legion
Mary Magdalene [or Mary of Magdala; prompt on Mary]
A sister-wife named Awan gives birth to six children in this place. For 10 points each:
Name this place to which Cain was banished by God after murdering Abel.
The Land of Nod was said to be “east of” this lush biblical garden, from which Adam and Eve were banished after eating from the Tree of Knowledge.
Cain’s first child had this name, which inspired Cain to give this name to the first city in the Land of Nod. Another biblical man with this name was the father of Methuselah and lived for 365 years before he “walked with God, and he was no more; for God took him.”
Land of Nod [or Eretz-Nod]
Garden of Eden [or Gan Eden; accept “(on the) east of Eden” or qidmat-’Eden]
Enoch [or Hanokh; or Idris]
If a man can speak in tongues but does not have this attribute, he is said to be a “clanging cymbal.” For 10 points each:
Give the common English word used many times in most translations of 1 Corinthians 13, an attribute said to be patient, kind, always trusting, always hoping, and never failing.
1 Corinthians, like most of the New Testament epistles, is credited as being written by this man, a missionary converted on the road to Damascus.
In a controversial section of 1 Corinthians, Paul says that if a woman prays or prophesies in this specific manner, she is being dishonorable. Some churches today still take this section literally.
love [do not accept other answers]
Paul [or Saul of Tarsus]
uncovered head [accept anything about not wearing something on the head]
The first part of this two-part statement declares the concept of tawhid, or the oneness of God. For 10 points each:
Name this declaration of faith and first Pillar of Islam. After performing this “testimony,” a convert would be expected to adhere to the rest of the Pillars of Islam.
The importance of the Five Pillars, along with other major tenets of Islam, are summarized in a hadith named for this figure. That hadith describes this figure appearing to Muhammad and his companions in human form.
A version of the shahada is recited during the Tashahhud, a portion of this action performed while kneeling in the direction of Mecca. This action is performed five times a day as part of the Five Pillars.
shahada [or shahadatan]
Gabriel [or Jibril]
salat [or salah; accept prayer or word forms]
Different theologies regarding the nature of this rite include the doctrines of real presence, pneumatic presence, and memorialism. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian sacrament that commemorates the Last Supper, in which participants take bread and wine. The liturgy devoted to this sacrament is the second half of Catholic mass, following the Liturgy of the Word.
This is the term for the Catholic interpretation of the Eucharist, which teaches that the bread and the wine are transformed into the Body and Blood of Christ. How the transformation occurs is considered a mystery of faith.
This Protestant branch believes in the doctrine of sacramental union, which holds that the Body and Blood of Christ are united with and present alongside the bread and the wine, even for non-Christians who consume it.
Eucharist [or Lord’s Supper; or Holy Communion]
transubstantiation [do not prompt on or accept “consubstantiation”]
Lutheranism
The innermost section of these structures is called the Garbagriha [“gurba-gruha”] and is generally situated under a spire that represents Mount Meru. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that are generally built following the guidelines of the Vastu and Shipa Sastras. These structures house murtis, and visitors generally circum-ambulate them.
An important temple at Badrinath is dedicated to this four-armed deity. Kalki will arrive on Earth as the last of ten avatars of this deity, who is the Preserver god of the Hindu Trimurti.
A special puja, or prayer, to Lakshmi is performed during this holiday. This holiday also commemorates Rama’s defeat of the demon Ravana.
Hindu temples [or mandirs; accept Buddhist temples]
Vishnu
Diwali [or Deepawali]
This man died of the Asian flu while traveling in London. For 10 points each:
Name this man who translated The Book of Certitude and other texts from a certain religion written by people like the Bab and Baha'u'llah. He is the only person considered the Guardian of that faith.
Shoghi Effendi is a major figure in this monotheistic religion founded by Baha'u'llah, which believes in an unity of religion, God, and humanity. The seat of its governing institution is located in Haifa, Israel.
This is the aforementioned governing institution of Baha'i, which has nine members elected every five years. It legislates on religious matters and also publishes texts important to Baha'i.
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani [prompt on “Shoghi” or “Effendi” or “Rabbani”]
Baha'i Faith
Universal House of Justice [prompt on “House of Justice”] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This man tries to go to Tarshish. For 10 points each:
Name this prophet who is extremely reluctant to preach to the Assyrian capital of Nineveh, despite God's instructions.
While trying to flee, Jonah is swallowed by a great fish, although William Tyndale translated the Hebrew word for the animal as this creature, which is actually a mammal, not a fish.
The end of Jonah's book shows him extremely angry after God destroys one of these objects after earlier providing it to Jonah as a blessing. Jonah, like an emo teen, notes he is “so angry” that he wishes he were dead.
Jonah
whale
a plant [or ivy or a gourd vine or bush or tree; accept any other kind of specific plant] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This institution's current High Priest is Peter Gilmore. For 10 points each:
Name this religious group whose members carry embossed crimson cards. Anton LaVey founded this group, whose members are described as skeptical atheists who do not actually believe in the supernatural reality of the being in its name.
The Biblical Satan has one of his largest Old Testament appearances in this book, in which he receives God's permission to torture the hapless title character in an attempt to make him curse God. The poor soul at the center of this book gets really bad advice from his friends.
The Satanic Bible compiled by LaVey heavily quotes this 1890 text written by the pseudonymous author “Ragnar Redbeard”. It advocates amoral hedonism and insists that weakness should be hated and that, as the title suggests, strength is the only thing that matters.
Church of Satan [prompt on “Satanism” or “Satanic worship” or “Satan”]
Job
Might is Right [or The Survival of the Fittest] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Sukuk avoid this practice by giving partial ownership in a tangible asset to bondholders who then officially collect rent, not interest. For 10 points each:
Give the Arabic term for this practice, which refers to any sort of exploitative profit and is normally translated as “usury”. There is debate whether the prohibition on this practice applies to charging interest on loans.
Riba is an example of an action that is haram, or forbidden, in Islam. This term, which describes actions or objects that are permissible, is most commonly used to describe food that has been prepared in accordance with Islamic dietary laws.
This sura of the Qu'ran states that people who benefit from riba are like those who “have been driven to madness by the touch of the Devil”. This longest sura also praises God in its Throne Verse.
riba
halal
surat al-Baqara [or Cow Sura] &lt;Bailey&gt;
This opinion notes that the ordinance in question was “gerrymandered with care” to avoid application to hunters. For 10 points each:
“Name this 1993 Supreme Court case holding that a local ordinance forbidding the ritual slaughter of chickens evinced unconstitutional “religious animosity”.
Members of the Church of the Lukumi Babalu are adherents of this Afro-Caribbean religion, which is based on the worship of Orishas that are often syncretized with Catholic saints.
The Lukumi Babalu case was the Supreme Court's first significant religious ruling after Employment Division v. Smith, which held that Oregon could deny unemployment benefits to a person fired for consuming this psychoactive flowering cactus often used in Native American religious rituals.
Church of [the] Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah [prompt on “City of Hialeah”]
Santería [accept La Regla de Ochá or La Regla de Ifá]
peyote [or Lophophora williamsii or L. williamsii or peyotl] &lt;Hart&gt;
State some facts about “America's Rabbi”, Shmuley Boteach (boh-TAY-ek), for 10 points each:
In his book titles, Boteach is oddly fond of appending this adjective to nouns like “Sex”, “Adultery”, “Emotions”, and “Jesus”. More generally, it is applied to food that meets the dietary guidelines of Jews.
Boteach is part of this movement founded by Shneur Zalman and expanded greatly under Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson. This Crown Heights-based group reaches out non-practicing Jews with Mitzvah tanks.
Boteach is a fan of these communities, as he wrote in a column about his “spiritual night” in the ones surrounding Hebron, like Kiryat Arba. He compared people who boycott businesses in these communities to the Nazis.
kosher [or kashrut]
Chabad-Lubavitch [accept either underlined portion]
Israeli settlements in Palestine [or obvious equivalents; accept yeshuvim or hityashvut or hityashvuyot or hitnachlut or hitnachluyot] &lt;Kothari&gt;
The materials used in this action are usually gathered at the plains of Muzdalifah. For 10 points each:
Name this action performed on the tenth day of Dhu al-Hijah. This symbolic action is supposed to be on the same spot where Ibrahim performed the literal version.
Ibrahim threw stones at the Devil while he was being tempted to not perform this action.
Muslims perform the rami al-Jamarat while on this pilgrimage. Going on this pilgrimage, if one has the means to do so, is the fifth Pillar of Islam.
stoning of the Devil [or rami al-Jamarat or rajm; accept any answer conveying the idea of throwing rocks at the Devil]
sacrifice Ishmael [accept equivalents mentioning the killing of Ishmael; do not accept or prompt on answers mentioning “Isaac” instead of “Ishmael”]
Hajj [or Hagg] &lt;Bailey&gt;
The only two teachings that were officially proclaimed to fall under this doctrine were the Immaculate Conception and Assumption of Mary. For 10 points each:
Name this doctrine under which, in certain matters, the pope is free from error.
Papal infallibility was officially defined under Pius IX (“the ninth”) at this council. Nearly 100 years later, an ecumenical council at the same location as this council proclaimed support for religious liberty in the document Dignitatis humanae.
This liberal Catholic and editor the magazine The Rambler opposed the doctrine of papal infallibility. He wrote a letter to Mandell Creighton in which he argued that “power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely”.
papal infallibility [accept word forms such as infallible]
First Vatican Council [or Vatican I; do not accept or prompt on “Vatican II” or equivalents]
Lord Acton [or John Dalberg-Acton] &lt;Bailey&gt;
This book contains an incident in which a monk is told that he is enlightened after eating his meal and being asked to wash his bowl. For 10 points each:
Name this text compiled by Wumen Huikai consisting of 48 specific cases. Along with the Blue Cliff Record, it is a key text in the Rinzai School.
The Rinzai school is a sect of this school of Buddhism extremely popular in Japan that advocates rigorous meditation.
The Gateless Gate consists of 48 of these questions or statements, sometimes inaccurately called meaningless or unanswerable. A famous example of these questions is “what is the sound of one hand clapping?”
The Gateless Gate [or The Gateless Window]
Zen Buddhism [or chan]
koans &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A possibly apocryphal story describes how, during a heated debate, St. Nicholas of Myra punched this man in the face. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian presbyter whose teachings—according to which Jesus Christ was a creation of, and thus subordinate to, God the father—became a major bone of contention at the very first ecumenical council.
That first ecumenical council adopted this standardized profession of the Christian faith, which took its name from the city in which the council was held. It was later modified at the First Council of Constantinople.
Arius was inspired by the writings of this controversial early Christian theologian, who had argued that the Son, despite being “eternally generated”, was subordinate to the Father. This man's rather literal interpretation of Matthew 19:12 apparently led him to castrate himself.
Arius [accept Arianism]
Nicene Creed [or the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed; prompt on “Constantinopolitan Creed”]
Origen Adamantius &lt;Carson&gt;
State some facts about the odd intersection of Buddhism and Christianity, for 10 points each.
The Buddha's life was the basis of a medieval romance about this legendary Indian prince, who was brought to Christianity by the hermit Barlaam despite being imprisoned by his father. A Biblical man of this name was the fourth king of Judah, who allied with Jehoram to defeat a Moabite coalition.
Widespread syncretism between Buddhism and Christianity occurred in China under the Church of the East, which generally held this Christological doctrine, according to which Jesus had distinct divine and human natures.
A set of these texts named for Jesus dates from a mission by the Nestorian bishop Alopen. Prominent examples of these canonical scriptures in Buddhism include “Lotus”, “Heart”, and “Diamond” ones.
Josaphat [or Jehoshaphat; or Yehoshephat; or Yosaphat; or Iosaphatus]
Nestorianism
sutras [or suttas] &lt;Kothari&gt;
The <em>Shikshapatri</em> codified the principles of a sect centered on a man from this state, Swaminarayan <strong>(SWA-mee-NAH-ruh-yun)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Name this state of India where Mahatma Gandhi, as well as one of his main influences, the Jain thinker Shrimad Rajchandra (SHREE-mud RAHJ-chun-DRAH), were both raised. A clash between Hindus and Muslims broke out in this state in 2002.
Swaminarayan Hindus consider their namesake to be a form of this preserver god, whose avatars include Rama and Krishna.
More than a dozen of these philosophical commentaries on the Vedas are primarily associated with Vaishnavism. Schopenhauer borrowed the phrase “thou art that” from the “Chandogya” one.
Gujarat
Vishnu
Upanishads &lt;Kothari&gt;
The two ranks of this position are “asogwe” and “sur pwen”. For 10 points each:
Name this male religious title contrasted with the female mambo. A holder of this title may also have magical powers and be known as a bokor.
The houngan is a male priest in this syncretic religion. It is heavily practiced in Haiti, while goofy Americans tend to associate it with zombie movies.
Vodou practitioners believe that, because the supreme god Bondye (bohn-d'yay) is distant and unknowable and thus cannot be directly worshiped, offerings should be given to these beings, sometimes called Mystères or Invisibles, which are roughly equivalent to Catholic saints.
houngan [accept houngan asogwe or houngan sur pwen]
Voodoo [or Vodou or Vodoun or Vaudou]
Loa [or Lwa or L'wha] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about a religion that combines Biblical elements with pan-African beliefs. For 10 points each:
Adherents of this religion often follow a dietary code known as ital. Western society is labeled as “Babylon” in this religion, which has many followers in Jamaica.
Rastafarians venerate several historical figures, including Marcus Garvey and this Emperor of Ethiopia, whom they consider to be the Messiah.
Haile Selassie’s birthday is one of the several days where Rastafari adherents have a holy “grounation” day and perform this sacred action. Rastafarians often use “wisdom chalices” to assist in performing this action.
Rastafarianism
Haile Selassie I
smoking marijuana [or obvious equivalents]
The three core principles of this religion are Unity of God, Unity of Religion, and Unity of Humanity. For 10 points each:
Name this religion founded by Bahá'u'lláh [“ba-ha-OO-lah”], whose many scriptures include the Book of Certitude. This religion’s adherents believe that Jesus, Muhammad, and the Buddha were all prophets of the same God.
The Baha’i faith is governed by the Universal House of Justice, which is headquartered in this city in Israel.
Bahá'u'lláh was from this modern-day nation. Followers of another religion founded in what is now this nation worship at fire temples and use a holy text that consists of the Gathas and the Yasna.
Baha’i Faith [or Baha; or Bahaism; or Bahaiyyat]
Haifa
Iran
Statues of a “laughing” figure in Chinese religion are often mistaken to be depictions of this person. For 10 points each:
Name this prince. He gained a title meaning “enlightened one” after meditating for forty-nine days underneath a Bodhi tree.
Followers of this “Great Vehicle” sect of Buddhism employ the doctrine of expedient means. It is much more popular in East Asia than the Theravada school.
The Dalai Lama leads a sect of Tibetan Buddhism which is named after a “yellow” one of these articles of clothing. Three other sects are named after a red variety of one of these articles.
Siddhartha Gautama [or the Buddha]
Mahayana Buddhism
hats
Answer the following about an Afro-European syncretic religion, for 10 points each.
This religion, which originated in Cuba, combines elements of both Roman Catholicism and Yoruba faith. Its traditions have been passed down orally and controversially include animal sacrifice.
Catholic saints in Santería are connected with these spiritual figures of the Yoruba faith. Practitioners of Santería believe that different ones of these figures, which are manifestations of God, rule over different people.
The Yoruba people originate principally from this country, as well as parts of Benin and Togo. The largest city in this present-day country is Lagos.
Santería
orishas
Nigeria
Places of worship in this religion fly Nishan Sahib flags and contain kitchens called langar that give free food to adherents of all faiths. For 10 points each:
Name this monotheistic Indian religion. Adherents of this religion who are initiated into the Khalsa order must wear the “Five Ks” at all times, which include uncut hair and a special curved sword.
Sikhism was founded by this first guru who said “There is neither Hindu nor Muslim”, and whose body is said to have turned into flowers upon his death.
Any Sikh male who has been initiated into the Khalsa order is given this title, which is often used as a middle name or surname.
Sikhism
Guru Nanak
Singh
This structure includes a venerated “black stone” that pilgrims kiss. For 10 points each:
Name this cubic granite structure that is covered with a silk curtain. Pilgrims circum·ambulate this holiest site in Islam counterclockwise seven times.
The Kaaba is located in this city, from which Muhammad fled to Medina during the hijra. Muslims travel to this city during the hajj.
Muslims pray facing the direction of the Kaaba, which has this name. Mosques have niches called mihrab that indicate this direction.
Kaaba
Mecca [or Makkah]
qibla
Members of this religion usually refuse military service due to their pacifism. For 10 points each:
Name this Protestant group that was active in the abolition of slavery and believes that humans possess an “inner light” of God. A member of this sect founded the colony of Pennsylvania.
This man, considered a founder of the Quakers, traveled widely with his wife Margaret Fell spreading Quaker doctrines and campaigning against injustice, for which he was repeatedly imprisoned.
Quakers avoid hierarchies and believe that all adherents may be these people, in accordance with a Bible verse that encourages “proclaiming the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness.”
Quakers [or Religious Society of Friends]
George Fox
priests
St. Paul is one of the few people to have become more interesting after he became a Christian. For 10 points each, answer the following about his life as Saul.
In Philippians, Paul states that he was a member of this largest ancient Jewish sect. They believed in Fate and an afterlife, but, in the gospels, Jesus repeatedly gives them a rollicking for their perceived hypocrisy.
According to Acts, Paul was taught by this Pharisaic pedagogue. In the Mishnah, he is revered as one of the greatest Jewish teachers.
While he was persecuting Christians, Paul had a conversion experience when he saw Jesus while riding towards this city. This city is the capital of modern-day Syria.
Pharisees
Gamaliel [or Gamliel]
Damascus [or Dimashq]
A philosopher involved in this religion debated whether he could know if a fish is happy, and was named Zhuangzi. For 10 points each:
Name this religion that emphasizes wu wei, or non-action. It venerates Laozi and believes in the harmony of yin and yang.
Zhuangzi is perhaps best known for recording a dream in which he was one of these creatures, and upon waking up could not tell if he had dreamt it or if this creature was dreaming that it was him.
Tang scholar Du Guangting wrote a “biography” of this Daoist deity. She is most often depicted atop the mythical Mount Kunlun, from which Sun Wukong steals her peaches of immortality in Journey to the West.
Daoism [or Taoism]
a butterfly
Queen Mother of the West [or Xi Wangmu; or Yaochi Jinmu]
Answer the following about Islamic law, as interpreted by the House of Saud, for 10 points each.
In Saudi Arabia, religious police called mutaween can arrest people for engaging in acts described by this word, Arabic for “forbidden.” Food that is not halal is also described by this word.
The Saudi elections of 2015 were the first where these people could vote and run for office. These people, who often wear a hijab, are still prohibited from driving in Saudi Arabia.
This act, a “conscious abandonment” of Islam, can be punished by the death penalty in Saudi Arabia. Abu Bakr fought several wars named after this concept after the death of Muhammad.
haram
women [or obvious equivalents]
riddah [or apostasy; or word forms like apostate; or irtidad; do not accept “heresy”]
A 13th-century treatise recounts 24 ancient individuals who exemplified this ideal. For 10 points each:
Name this virtue in traditional Chinese belief that refers to good conduct toward one’s parents and elders.
This god in Chinese folklore oversees family conduct, is often depicted alongside his wife, and is traditionally burnt in effigy to make a report to the Jade Emperor.
Images of the Kitchen God are burned during this two-week long holiday in January or February that also involves cleaning the home, eating dumplings or sticky rice cakes, and dancing in lion costumes.
filial piety [or xiao shun; prompt on alternative translations like “family reverence”]
Kitchen God [or Zao Jun; or Zao Shen; accept words like stove, or hearth, or furnace in place of “Kitchen”]
Chinese New Year [or Spring Festival; or Chun Jie; prompt on “Lunar New Year”]
A Jewish prayer service features the “hatzi” variety of this prayer to delineate a new section of the service. For 10 points each:
Identify this prayer. Its best known form is a “mourner’s” variety recited to commemorate either the recently deceased or the anniversary of a death.
Like many Jewish prayers, reciting the Kaddish requires a minyan, which is a quorum of this many Jews gathered together. It is also the number of Commandments God gave to Moses on Mt. Sinai.
This word, which translates as “time of the year”, is used to mark the anniversary of a loved one’s death. It is observed with three sayings of the mourner’s Kaddish and the lighting of a commemorative candle.
Kaddish
ten
Yahrzeit
Answer the following about the monk Kūkai, for 10 points each.
Kūkai imported China’s Tangmi Buddhist tradition to this island nation as Shingon Buddhism. This country’s many “new religions” include Tenrikyo and the doomsday cult Aum Shinrikyo.
Kūkai fled China because of its persecution of Buddhism under emperor Tang Wuzong, who favored native religions, such as this one that venerates the Jade Emperor as one of the Three Pure Ones.
A Shingon mandala depicts the Womb realm and this other realm. A well-known sutra is named for “cutting” this tough substance, whose Sanskrit name gives an alternate name for the esoteric Tantric tradition.
Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon]
Daoism [or Taoism]
diamond [or vajra; or vajrayana; or kongoseki; or Diamond Sutra; or Vajracchedika Prajnaparamita Sutra; or Diamond Realm; or Kongokai]
The only female member of this book’s title group is Deborah, whose enemy is Jabin. For 10 points each:
Name this Old Testament book, which tells a series of stories in which the title leaders use their wisdom and knowledge of God to protect the Israelites from evil. It contains the story of Samson fighting the Philistines.
This judge liberates Israel from the Midianites and the Amalechites. An evangelical group named for him is known for putting Bibles in hotel rooms.
The Book of Judges ends with the story of the Battle of Gibeah, in which this Tribe of Israel is nearly wiped out due to one of their members raping a concubine of the Tribe of Levi. The later king Saul was a member of this tribe.
Book of Judges
Gideon
Tribe of Benjamin
This book divides the human mind into “analytical” and “reactive” parts, and it claims that traumas and negative memories are stored in the reactive mind as engrams. FTPE:
What book first published in 1950 was subtitled “The Modern Science of Mental Health” by author L. Ron Hubbard?
Dianetics is the founding text for this pseudo-religious cult which claims numerous duped celebrity adherents, including John Travolta and Tom Cruise.
Actress Leah Remini, a former Scientologist, filed a missing person report for the wife of this current leader of Scientology; reports suggest he is keeping her prisoner and is a total dick.
Dianetics
“Church of” Scientology
David Miscavige
A temple putatively dedicated to this figure from Christianity attempted to install a nine-foot tall, 1.5-ton statue of Baphomet in the Oklahoma state house. FTPE:
That temple fights for free speech and reproductive acts under the guise of worshiping this entity, referred to as the “Adversary” in the Book of Job.
Baphomet was important to the nutty philosophy of this crazy British occultist of the early 20th century who created a theology called Thelema.
Another Satanic Temple affiliate has displayed a tall pole made of Pabst beer cans in the Florida state house the last two years; that pole celebrates this fictional holiday made “for the rest of us” by George Costanza’s father on Seinfeld.
Satan (accept the Devil)
Aleister Crowley
Festivus
Children must be at least seven years old and profess their belief in “real presence” before participating in this rite. FTPE:
What is this rite in which Catholic children first accept the bread and wine that represent the body and blood of Christ?
Before taking First Communion, a child must take part in this action, formally known as the Sacrament of Reconciliation.
Peter Lombard is reputed to be the first to call this final Catholic sacrament “Last Rites,” which is a bit of misnomer, as it can be done more than once. It involves anointing a sick person to comfort them.
First Communion
Confession or Penance
Extreme Unction
Followers of this religion in India are known as Parsees. FTPE:
Followers of what religion revere Ahura-Mazda?
Zoroastrianism originated in what is now this modern country, where it is still practiced in small pockets, especially in the northeast.
The Zoroastrian text the Avesta includes the long section called the Yasna, which comprises these songs said to have been composed by Zoroaster himself.
Zoroastrianism
Iran
Gathas
The man who holds the baby at this ceremony is called the sandek. For 10 points each:
Name this ritual circumcision of Jewish boys.
According to Genesis 17, a bris occurs this number of days after birth. The holiday Shemini Atzeret [at-SER-es] is sometimes known as this numbered day of Sukkot.
This person performs the circumcision and may use his mouth to suck blood from the wound.
bris [or brit milah]
eight
mohel [or mohalim; or mohalot]
That a golden turtle called Kim Qui gave a sword to a 15th-century ruler is a folk myth from this country. FTPE:
Though officially atheist according to its communist government, what country has 6.2 million Catholics due to lingering effects of French colonial rule?
Joan of Arc and Victor Hugo are saints in this syncretistic Vietnamese religion named for its supreme deity.
By far the largest religion in Vietnam is this branch of Buddhism, a “greater vehicle” that comprises many different Buddhist traditions.
Vietnam
Cao Dai
Mahayana Buddhism
This religion is noted for some of the higher class adherents to pay for people to sweep the streets in front of them. This is because of a doctrine to not kill living things, one of the Five Vows.
Name this religion that includes figures such as the Mahavira and Rishaba
Most Jains live in this Asian country.  It includes states such Utter Pradesh and Gujarat
Sikhism, another minority religion in India, is found in this region of India. It was split between Pakistan and India in the Partition of 1947
Jainism (Jain Dharma)
India
Punjab
Name these items of clothing that observant Muslim women might wear FTPE:
This loose outer garment, most common in Afghanistan, covers the entire body and has a veiled opening for the eyes.
This term refers to a scarf worn by women as well as the traditional dress code for women.
Along with a hijab, this long and usually black robe is worn by women in Saudi Arabia.
burqa [or burka; or bourkha; or burkha; or burqu; or chadri; or paranja]
hijab
abaya [or aba; or abayah; or aba'ah; or abayat; or aba'at]
This biblical patriarch begat 12 sons who established the twelve tribes of Israel. FTPE:
What Old Testament figure was born holding onto the heel of his older twin brother, Esau?
The 11th of Jacob’s sons was this guy whose brothers sold him into slavery and smeared goat blood on his “coat of many colors” to fool Jacob into believing he was dead. PS—Ben Carson thinks he stored grain in the pyramids.
This daughter of Jacob was raped by a Canaanite named Shechem, leading Jacob’s sons to kill him and plunder his city.
Jacob or Israel
Joseph
Dinah
In some Jewish households, these objects are attached to a doorpost in a diagonal position. FTPE:
Name these objects that consist of a parchment scroll inside of a small case.
Mezuzahs are inscribed with passages from this fifth book of the Old Testament.
The fifth chapter of Deuteronomy includes these basic obligations of man, which were engraved on two stone tablets, and include "Thou shalt not kill."
mezuzahs [or mezuzoth; or mezuzot; or mezuzos]
Deuteronomy
Ten Commandments [or the Decalogue]
For Sunni Muslims, the “Six Books” are the canonical collection of these sayings. FTPE:
What Arabic term designates these directly reported statements made by Muhammad?
Much of this Islamic legal code was derived from interpretations of the hadiths.
The third Caliph, Uthman, is thought to have commended the recording of the sayings of the prophet. Uthman is one of the first four caliphs of Islam, collectively known by this term.
hadith
Sharia
Rightly Guided or Righteously Guided” or “Rashidun”
You have a new neighbor. Answer the following about him for 10 points each.
When he goes walking, he sweeps the ground ahead of him to avoid killing insects. This is because he believes in what principle of complete nonviolence that is central to a certain religion?
Ahimsa is the cornerstone of what Indian religion that reveres Mahavira as the most recent tirthankara?
Your neighbor doesn't like engaging in arguments with you because he believes in this Jain principle that supports multiple viewpoints and asserts no single point of view is the complete truth. The parable of blind men looking at an elephant illustrates this.
ahimsa
Jainism
Anekantavada
In <em>De Jesu Christo Servatore</em>, Faustus Socinus argued against this position on the grounds that it punishes the innocent instead of the guilty, and others argue that it divides the Trinity. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial Christian theory of the atonement in which God punishes Jesus in the place of sinners, thus satisfying the requirements of divine justice.
One justification for penal substitution is a verse beginning “All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” from this longest Pauline epistle, found after Acts. This book also says “The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life,” and Karl Barth wrote a commentary on it.
Substitutionary views of the atonement are popular in the Reformed tradition of this author of Institutes of the Christian Religion. He argued that God unconditionally elects some people for salvation, to whom he applies irresistible grace.
penal substitutionary atonement [or the forensic theory]
Epistle to the Romans
John Calvin
Miracles attributed to this man include his use of a handful of dust to blind enemies at the battle of Badr and his completion of the Isra and the Mi’raj, which make up the Night Journey. For 10 points each:
Name this prophet whose greatest miracle, according to Muslims, was when Allah, through the angel Jibril, revealed to him the text of the Qur’an.
Surah 54 of the Qur’an is the source of a miracle attributed to Muhammad in which he split this object so that Mount Nur became visible between its two halves. Surah 54’s name, “Al-Qamar”, is Arabic for this object.
In another of Muhammad’s miracles, he stopped one of these objects from crying, which it had begun doing when he started using a pulpit to deliver sermons. Touba is one of these objects that grows in Jannah, or heaven.
Muhammad [or Abu al-Qasim Muhammad ibn ‘Abd Allah ibn ‘Abd al-Muttalib ibn Hashim]
the moon [or Luna]
a date-palm tree [or a date-palm]
This book ends with a collection of testimonials called "Fruitage." For 10 points each:
Name this foundational text by Mary Baker Eddy published in 1875. It labels disease a "false belief" and asserts that prayer is the best way to fight illness.
The Christian Science Church takes as its main texts Science and Health, as well as this translation of the Bible named for an English king that was completed in 1611.
While the headquarters of the Christian Science Church is in Boston, the first of its churches was built in this state, where Wade Michael Page shot six people at a house of worship in 2012.
Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures
King James Bible [or KJV; or KJB; prompt on Authorized Version]
Wisconsin
The next instance of one version of this day will last from sunset on October 13, 2015 to sunset the next day. For 10 points each:
Identify this holiday that, in Islam, takes place on the first day of Muharram each year. In Judaism, this day is known as Rosh Hashanah.
The full name of the Islamic lunar New Year references this term for Muhammad’s 622 CE journey from Mecca to Medina.
This holiday takes place on the tenth of Muharram. On it, Sunni Muslims commemorate Musa’s fast after the freeing of the Israelites, while Shia Muslims mourn the martyrdom of Muhammad’s grandson Husayn.
Islamic New Year [accept but DO NOT REVEAL “Ras as-Sanah al-Hijriyah”]
the Hijra [or Hijrat; or Hegira; do not accept “Hajj”]
the Day of Ashura
An important rite in this celebration is the ritual washing and dressing of a plantain tree, and it often includes a <em>dhunuchi</em> dance during <em>aarti</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this celebration during the last five days of Navratri, perhaps the biggest yearly festival in eastern India, especially Bengal. Its namesake aspect of Parvati is the goddess of strength and victory of good over evil.
Along with Durga or Parvati, another member of the Hindu Tridevi is this consort of Brahma and goddess of knowledge and the arts. She is often portrayed playing a veena.
The final member of the Tridevi is Lakshmi, who is worshipped on this holiday during which people light small earthenware lamps. This “Festival of Lights” also celebrates the return of Rama from exile.
Durga Puja [or Durgotsava; or Sharadotsava]
Saraswati
Diwali [or Deepavali]
Tomoko Masuzawa has argued that 19th century European influences “invented” one of these religions through a series of misinterpretations through the lens of the other, including drawing false parallels with Martin Luther. For 10 points each:
Name these two distinct religions. Both Elaine Pagels and Will Durant argued that they commingled due to Ashoka’s ministers eventually influencing Gnostic beliefs.
The Majjhima Nikāya and three gospels recount the Buddha and Jesus, respectively, doing this unnatural action. Jesus called Peter “you of little faith” when the latter was unable to do this after jumping from a boat on the Sea of Galilee.
This scholar explored the similarities between Buddhism and Christianity in his seminal textbook The World’s Religions. This associate of Timothy Leary campaigned for the sacramental use of peyote by Native Americans.
Buddhism and Christianity
walking on water [accept word variants]
Huston Smith [or Huston Cummings Smith]
Every surah of the Qur’an except one begins with the phrase referred to by this term. For 10 points each:
Give either the common name or the first word of the oft-used Islamic phrase that translates as “In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful”.
Give either the ordinal number or the name of the surah that does not begin with the basmala. Its 30th verse mentions the mysterious Uzair, while its 37th documents the prohibition of Nasi. It also contains the “Sword Verse”.
The “Sword Verse” obliges Muslims to “fight and slay the pagans wherever ye find them”, and can thus be used as justification for the “sword” version of this concept. It directly translates as “struggle”, but is often interpreted by non-Muslims as meaning “holy war”.
basmala [or bismillah]
the ninth chapter/surah [or nine] or “at-Tawbah” [or the Repentance surah; or al-Bara’ah; or the Ultimatum surah]
jihad
This set of letters is known as the Tetragrammaton and is often pronounced “Jehovah”. For 10 points each:
Give this four letter combination or its common pronunciation that is one of the names of God in the Hebrew Bible.
This term is often said aloud in place of YHWH. It is the Aramaic term for “Lord”.
Some Orthodox and Ultra-Orthodox Jews eschew all of the above, preferring to refer to God by this term, which is Hebrew for “the name”.
YHWH [or Yahweh; or Yehowah]
Adonai
Hashem
Make like it’s 2008 and do your best on this Rob Carson bonus about Biblical apocrypha! For 10 points each:
A common subject of paintings is an apocryphal prologue to the Book of Daniel about this woman, who is accosted by a pair of elders who attempt to blackmail her for sex. Daniel proves that the elders can’t keep their stories straight.
Another sweet deleted scene from the Book of Daniel is this story in which Daniel shows the folly of idol worship by proving that hungry priests are faking one such idol and causing another one to explode.
Among the apocrypha included in the KJV are two books of this title that detail a revolt against the rule of Antiochus IV Epiphanes.
Susanna [or Shoshana]
The Idol Bel and the Dragon [or Bel and the Serpent]
Maccabees [accept 1 Maccabees or 2 Maccabees]
In mainstream Christianity, this trait is often explained as God being both transcendent and immanent, while another religion often represents this concept with the Ik Onkar symbol. For 10 points each:
Name this characteristic of God in Sikhism and the Abrahamic religions ,that essentially means God is always everywhere and in all things.
This is the most common term Sikhs use to refer to the one, omnipresent God. It means “venerable teacher”, and is often recited as part of the Naam Japo.
The “three pillars” of Sikhism include Naam Japo and Vand Chhako, or community generosity, the latter of which often involves supporting these institutions, kitchens sponsored by gurdwaras that provide free meals.
omnipresence [accept word forms like omnipresent]
Waheguru
langar
Wikipedia stresses this entity is "never a mere animal." For 10 points each:
Name this evil entity currently imprisoned on the mythical Mount Damavand. He will eventually break loose at the end of the world and ravage it. This fiendish serpent is described as having three heads in the texts of the Avesta.
Azi Dahaka is sometimes said to be the son of this other fiend. According to some traditions, he is the twin brother of his nemesis, the good Ahura Mazda.
Ahriman is a fiendish being in what monotheistic Persian religion that worships Ahura Mazda?
Zahhak [or Zohhak; or Azi Dahaka]
Angra Mainyu [or Ahriman]
Zoroastrianism [or Zarathustraism; prompt on Mazdaism]
One of these figures wears a top hat and smokes a cigar. For 10 points each:
Name these beings that serve as intermediaries between the world and the supreme god Bondye. Examples of them include Legba and Baron Samedi.
Loas are spirits that are part of this syncretic religion that is heavily practiced in Haiti and mixes aspects of African and Catholic traditions.
As opposed to traditional voodoo priests, or houngan, these voodoo practitioners are like sorcerers for hire who can utilize both dark and light magic. They use black magic to create zombies.
loas
Voodoo [or Vodoun]
Bokors
These ceremonies include a series of sixteen steps called shodasa upacara. For 10 points each: 
Give this term that simply means "worship," referring to type of ritual ceremony that involves  offering fruits and flowers to various deities. One of them is performed for Lakshmi during Diwali. 
Pujas are performed in this Indian religion. 
On the eve of this Hindu festival, people light up a bonfire to celebrate the burning of a demoness.  People apply colored powders to each other during this festival. 
pujas [or pooja] 
Hinduism 
Holi 
Arthur Waley translated this term as "power," and it names the second half of an eighty-one chapter  book that uses wheels, pots, and houses as examples of things made useful by their emptiness. For 10  points each: 
Give this Chinese term that means "virtue" in common usage. Chapter thirty-eight of one book says  that when this idea is lost, morality and ritual take its place. 
This belief system stresses non-action or wu wei and venerates the "three treasures" of compassion,  moderation, and humility. De appears in the foundational text of this spiritual belief system of ancient  China. 
This man is a manifestation of the Taiqing or "Grand Pure One." This 6th century BCE sage is held to  be the author of the Dao De Jing. 
de [or te] 
Daoism [or Taoism; prompt on "the Way"]
Laozi [or Lao Tzu] 
Identify some animals from the Bible, for 10 points each. 
One of these animals persuades Eve to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, leading  to her and Adam's expulsion from the Garden of Eden. 
When Abraham is about to follow God's command to sacrifice Isaac, God tells him to sacrifice one  of these animals instead. In Matthew 25, these animals serve as a metaphor for the nations who are  separated out to be saved.
The prodigal son lives among these animals after wasting his father's inheritance. Jesus exorcises a  man who is possessed by a "Legion" of demons, forcing the demons to enter a herd of these animals. 
serpents [or snakes; or nahash] 
rams [or sheep] 
pigs [or swine]
A story of this kind is about a man who postpones revenge on his father's killer to let him dig a tunnel through a mountain, and eventually finds that he cannot kill that man, as he now considers him his teacher. For ten points each: 
Name this genre of short parable-like texts, collected in books like The Blue Cliff Record. 
Koans are a part of this branch of Mahayana Buddhism. The three contemporary Japanese schools of this religion are Rinzai, Soto, and Obaku. 
Koan study may be used to help reach this state of "sudden enlightenment" in Zen Buddhism, referring to the awareness of one's kensho. 
 koans [or gong an; or kong an] 
Zen Buddhism [or chan; or seon] 
satori [or wu] 
Because her husband was blind, this queen blindfolded herself as well. For 10 points each: 
Name this queen, who gave birth to a lump of flesh, the hundred pieces of which developed into the hundred Kaurava brothers. 
Before the battle in the Mahabharata, Gandhari's eldest son Duryodhana chose to have the army of this blue-skinned avatar of Vishnu on his side, rather than this figure himself. 
As a result of Duryodhana's choice, Krishna became the charioteer of this Pandava brother. This archer killed the Kaurava warrior Karna because the Kauravas killed this man's son Abhimanyu. 
Gandhari 
Krishna 
Arjuna [or Arjun] 
This holiday begins on the 15th of Nisan, and preparation the night before involves the sacrifice of a goat. For 10 points each: 
Name this religious holiday that commemorates the liberation of the Israelites from slavery in Egypt. 
Passover includes this feast in which four cups of wine and plenty of matzah are consumed. 
Because the Israelites were in such a hurry to leave after being freed by the Pharaoh, they left before even their bread could leaven. Leavened foods are thus referred to by this Hebrew term, and are forbidden on Passover.
Passover [or Pesach] 
seder 
chametz 
 People observing this holiday may perform "long confession," called al chet, or "short confession,"  called vidui. For 10 points each: 
Name this Jewish Day of Atonement on which the Kol Nidre is recited. 
Yom Kippur concludes a period of repentance in Judaism that lasts this many days at the start of the  month of Tishrei. That period of this many days begins with Rosh Hashanah. 
In this other Jewish holiday in Tishrei, blessings are recited over the lulav and etrog. This holiday is  meant to commemorate the forty years the Jewish people spent in the desert, and the fragile tents in  which they slept. 
Yom Kippur [or Yom haKippurim] 
ten [or Ten Days of Repentance; or Aseret Yemei Teshuva]
Sukkot [or Sukkos; or the Feast of Booths; or the Feast of Tabernacles] 
Jonah performed this action once while in the belly of a fish and again after the people of Nineveh  repented. For 10 points each: 
Name this action that Jesus performed while Peter, John, and James slept the night before his  crucifixion. In Acts 12, Peter escapes prison and goes to a house where people had gathered to perform  this action. 
Members of this Christian denomination recite the Jesus Prayer. This denomination, led by the  Patriarch of Constantinople, split up from the Roman Catholic Church in the 11th-century Great Schism. 
Jesus prayed and his disciples slept in this location near the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem. Artists  often depicted Jesus' "agony in" this place, where he uttered the phrase "the spirit is willing, but the  flesh is weak." 
praying to God [or word forms like prayer; prompt on less specific answers like "worship" or  "talking to God"] 
Eastern Orthodox
the Garden of Gethsemane [or Gat-shmanim; prompt on just "the Garden"] 
Karl Barth gained fame by rejecting humanistic views of scripture in a 1916 commentary on a text that this man wrote with the help of his assistant Tertius. For 10 points each: 
Name this apostle from Tarsus who wrote many of the Epistles. 
Paul criticized this other apostle for an "incident at Antioch" in which this man refused to share a meal with Gentiles. This man was martyred on an upside-down cross, and shares a feast date with Paul. 
The incident at Antioch is recounted in this Pauline epistle addressing adherence to the Law of Moses. This epistle to a group in central Anatolia includes the line "There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free." 
Saint Paul the Apostle [or Saul of Tarsus] 
Peter [or Simon Peter] 
Epistle to the Galatians 
Note to Moderator: Do not read the alternate answers to the first part aloud  Rabbi Akiva condemned the public recitation of this text, but defended its inclusion in the scriptural canon as an allegory for the love between God and Israel. For 10 points each: 
[10]	Name this Biblical book in which two lovers express their passion with phrases like "I am a wall, and my breasts like towers" and "the joints of thy thighs are like jewels." 
The Song of Songs is attributed to this wise king of Israel who was the son of David. 
The Song of Songs is part of the Ketuvim, or "writings," that make up part of this canon of Hebrew scripture along with the Torah and the Prophets. This set of scriptures is also called the Masoretic Text, or the miqra. 
Song of Songs [or Canticles; or Shir haShirim; or Asma Asmaton; accept but do not reveal Song of Solomon] 
Solomon [or Shlomo; or Sulayman] 
the Tanakh 
After her husband fled at the sight of her rotting corpse, this goddess vowed to kill 1000 people each day. For 10 points each: 
Name this goddess who gave birth to the deformed Leech Child because she spoke first at her wedding. 
Izanami and her husband Izanagi created the islands of this country from the water droplets that fell from a spear they dipped into the ocean. The Shinto sun goddess, Amaterasu, is worshipped in this country's Ise Shrine. 
After a god of this object killed the food goddess Uke Mochi in disgust, Amaterasu permanently separated from him. That god of this object was washed out from Izanagi's right eye. 
Izanami-no-mikoto
Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon] 
the moon [or Tsukiyomi] 
This man died shortly after his "farewell pilgrimage," and his name often has the phrase "peace be upon him" appended to it. For 10 points each: 
Name this man, the final prophet of Islam. 
This term refers to Muhammad's escape from Mecca and travelling to the city of Yathrib, which was later renamed Medina. 
This first wife of Muhammad was a great merchant from the Quraysh tribe. She is believed to be the first person to convert to Islam. 
Muhammad
hijra [or hegira] 
Khadijah bint Khuwaylid 
This man died shortly after his "farewell pilgrimage," and his name often has the phrase "peace be upon him" appended to it. For 10 points each: 
Name this man, the final prophet of Islam. 
This term refers to Muhammad's escape from Mecca and travelling to the city of Yathrib, which was later renamed Medina. 
This first wife of Muhammad was a great merchant from the Quraysh tribe. She is believed to be the first person to convert to Islam. 
Muhammad
hijra [or hegira] 
Khadijah bint Khuwaylid 
This term comes from Tungusic languages, and Mircea Eliade wrote a book about this belief system as  an "archaic technique of ecstasy." For 10 points each: 
Give this term referring to the use of trances or other methods to communicate with spirits for  purposes like healing. Its practitioners include curanderos in Latin America and noaidi among the Sami. 
The religion of these peoples includes shamans called angakkuq. Their mythology includes creatures  like the qalupalik that steal away bad children, as well as gods like Anguta and Sedna. 
This people's religion includes black, white, and yellow forms of shamanism that are defined based  on their incorporation of Buddhist practices. They also worship numerous gods called tengri. 
shamanism [prompt on "medicine men" or similar answers] 
Inuit [or Inuk; or Eskimo] 
Mongols [or Mongolians]
With Tamar, Rahab, and "the wife of Uriah," this woman is one of only four women mentioned in the  genealogy of Jesus Christ. For 10 points each: 
Name this woman whose mother-in-law Naomi advises her to go lay at the feet of a man with whom  she would be joined in Levirate marriage. She meets that man, Boaz, while gleaning in his fields in her  namesake Biblical book. 
This grandson of Ruth is often depicted with Jesus' family tree growing out of him, as described in  the Book of Isaiah. The prophet Samuel considered each of this man's sons before anointing the  youngest one King of Israel. 
That son of Jesse was this king, who gained fame for killing Goliath. 
Ruth 
Jesse [or Yishai] 
David
This name of this kind of speech derives from a Greek word meaning "companionship," and one of  these speeches is given at the end of the Liturgy of the Word. For 10 points each: 
Give this term that in common usage refers to a short sermon or religious commentary. 
The Liturgy of the Word is part of this Catholic religious observance that observes the sacrament of  the Eucharist. They usually happen on Sundays. 
This text is recited during the breaking apart, or "fraction," of the Eucharistic bread. It asks "you  who take away the sins of the world, grant us peace." 
a homily [or homilies; or homilia] 
masses [or missa] 
the Agnus Dei [or Lamb of God] 
This religion holds that Ezekiel witnessed a flying "wheel" that was built in Japan and carries thousands  of bombs. For 10 points each: 
Name this religion whose leaders have included Louis Farrakhan and Elijah Muhammad. Its activities  include promoting black separatism and selling navy bean pies, a foodstuff its adherents believe was  prescribed by Allah. 
This man left the Nation of Islam to become a Sunni Muslim, and was assassinated as a result. He is  perhaps better known for his autobiography and for his work in the Civil Rights Movement. 
Members of the Nation of Islam believe that the white race was created by this black scientist 6,600  years ago on the island of Patmos. This man is identified with a similarly-named Biblical figure. 
Nation of Islam [prompt on "Islam" or "Muslim" or similar answers] 
Malcolm X [or Malcolm Little, or El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz] 
Dr. Yakub 
It is the first rite through which a Christian child passes, though some sects believe it should be withheld  until the person in question can profess their own faith. For 10 points each: 
Name this sacrament usually consisting of a blessing and the immersion of a person in water.
This practice was based on the premise that the church possessed a "treasury of merit" earned by  saints that could be applied to sinners. Martin Luther condemned the Catholic Church's granting of  these remissions. 
Unlike an indulgence, which is given by the Church, this act of moving a sinner from a state of sin to  a state of grace or righteousness is done solely by God.
baptism [accept word forms] 
indulgences 
justification [accept word forms] 
This text was compiled in the Gurmukhi script by Guru Arjan. For 10 points each: 
Name this book that is divided into numerous shabad, the first of which is a "chief verse" called the Mul Mantar. This text is regarded as the current and eternal Guru, after the ten human Gurus that preceded it. 
The Guru Granth Sahib is the central text of this South Asian religion that originated in the Punjab  region. Male followers of this religion must wear turbans and adopt the surname "Singh." 
Tradition holds that this man disappeared in the Bain River for three days before returning to his village and declaring that there is neither Hindu nor Muslim. The Mul Mantar was written by this first Guru of Sikhism. 
Guru Granth Sahib [or Adi Granth] 
Sikhism 
Guru Nanak 
These artworks usually depict a circle within a square with four "gates." For 10 points each: 
Name these artworks of Hinduism and Buddhism. As a form of meditation, Tibetan Buddhist monks create these out of sand over the course of many days or weeks, and then destroy them as soon as they are finished. 
This good luck symbol often shows up in Hindu and Buddhist art. Unfortunately, this symbol is more recognizable in reverse from its appearances as an emblem of Nazi Germany. 
This Indonesian island is the site of the enormous Hindu and Buddhist temples Prambanan and Borobudur, both of which are over a thousand years old. 
mandala
swastika [or manji; or wan] 
Java [or Jawa] 
This denomination adheres to a set of texts called the "Twenty-Five Articles". For 10 points each: 
Name this Christian denomination founded by John Wesley. It focuses on the personal relationship with God rather than a formal theology. 
Another influential early Methodist preacher was George Whitefield, who was a leader of the first of these widespread religious revivals in America. 
Wesley was influenced by this religious movement that emphasized the saving nature of grace for all humans. Its rise to prominence was condemned by the Dutch Reformed Church in the Synod of Dort. 
Methodism [or the Methodist Church] 
Great Awakenings [or First Great Awakening] 
Arminianism 
This person is born to his mother Sarah when Sarah is well over ninety years old. 
Name this Biblical patriarch, who sires the twins Jacob and Esau with his wife Rebecca.  
Jacob gets Isaac's blessing after he tricks Esau into trading this coveted status for a bowl of stew.
The near-sacrifice of Isaac takes place atop this mountain, where God traps a ram in a thicket to be sacrificed instead.
Isaac [or Yitzhak]
his birthright [or firstborn son status; or firstborn heir status]
Mount Moriah
This man rejected asceticism and indulgence in favor of a "Middle Way" and described the Noble Eightfold Path to ending personal suffering. 
Name this man, who founded a world religion that has Mahayana and Theravada branches.
In Mahayana Buddhism, this name is given to beings who have achieved enlightenment and work for the enlightenment of all beings. One such is Guanyin, an aspect of Avalokitesvara.
This is the name for the celestial realms inhabited by Buddhas and boddhisatvas. One of these realms named Shambhala is the inspiration for the Shangri-La myth.
Gautama Buddha [accept either underlined portion; or Siddhartha Gautama; or The Buddha; or Shakyamuni]
boddhisatvas
Pure lands [or buddha-kṣetra or Buddha fields; or jingtu]
Answer the following about pacifist trends in various religious traditions, 
Mahavira founded this monastic Indian faith, whose strict vow of ahimsa forbids doing harm to any living being. As a result, most of its adherents are vegetarians.
Members of this sect, founded by Charles Taze Russell, refuse to be drafted because they only fight for "God's kingdom." Its services occur in Kingdom Halls, and it publishes The Watchtower.
This heretical, dualistic sect of southern France preached pacifism and strict dietary codes. They were massacred at forts such as Montsegur as part of a 13th-century crusade.
Jainism [or Jain dharma]
Jehovah's Witnesses
Cathars [or Albigensians]
Marie Laveau popularized this faith among the Creole population of New Orleans. 
Name this syncretic faith begun by slaves and their descendants in Haiti. Contrary to popular belief, this faith largely rejects sorcerers who aim to create zombies.
In voodoo, these spirits are intermediaries between humans and the distant god Bondye. They include Erzulie and the top hat-wearing Baron Samedi.
This West African ethnicity held the beliefs which blended with Catholicism in New World religions such as Voodoo and Santeria. Their chief god is named Olurun or Oludumare.
voodoo [or vodoun]
loas [or lwa]
Yoruba people
Some forms of the Nicene Creed include the Latin word filioque, which means "and [this figure] too." 
Name this aspect of God that, along with the Father and the Holy Ghost, composes the Holy Trinity.
The Nicene Creed rejected this heresy, which held that the Son was subordinate to the Father. The bishop Ulfilas converted the Goths to a form of this heresy in the early fourth century.
This other heretical position holds that the Son represents only the pure divine nature of God. The Armenian Orthodox Church formally rejects this position but holds similar views to it.
The Son
Arianism
Monophysitism [or Monophysite Christology, etc.]
This religion has had eleven gurus, with the current and final one being the Granth Sahib. 
Name this religion whose initiated members form the Khalsa order.
Wearing this headgear, known as a dastar or pagri in Punjabi, is mandatory for all members of the Sikh Khalsa.
One of these items called a kirpan must be carried at all times by members of the Khalsa, which has sometimes caused legal problems for Sikhs in Europe and the United States.
Sikhism
turbans
dagger [or knife; or sword]
This speech is recorded in chapters 5 through 7 of the Gospel of Matthew. 
Name this long speech from Jesus's ministry, in which he tells the people below him to "turn the other cheek" if someone hits them.
This term describes the nine phrases, such as "blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven," which open the Sermon on the Mount.
Jesus cites these flowers, which neither "toil nor spin," in the Sermon on the Mount to show how God provides for every living thing.
Sermon on the Mount [or Sermo in monte]
Beatitudes
lilies of the fields
The ritualistic performance of this action is known as salat and is required as one of the Five Pillars of Islam. 
Name this action, which devout Muslims perform five times per day while facing Mecca.
This is the Arabic term for the direction that one must face while performing ritualistic prayer or salat.
While most instances of salat are done in private, Muslims frequently hold congregational prayers known as jumu'ah at noon on this day of the week.
prayer [accept word forms]
qibla
Friday [accept translations, except "jumu'ah" obviously]
Answer the following about the bar mitzvah ceremony, 
The 13-year-old undergoing a bar mitzvah reads a portion of this holy text from its namesake scroll. This text consists of the "Five Books of Moses," the first five of the Bible.
The Torah is read from this elevated stage-like area at the front of the synagogue. The aliyah is a call to stand on this platform.
In many synagogues, this official, who helps the rabbi by leading the tunes during prayer, sings the aliyah to bring the bar mitzvah up to the bimah.
Torah scroll [or Pentateuch]
bimah
cantor [or hazzan; or chazan]
This prophet and son of Elkanah and Hannah was promised to a priest at Shiloh before he was born. For 10 points each:
Name this last Judge of the Israelites, who anointed Saul the first King of Israel.
Samuel was dedicated to this other Judge, the High Priest who found Hannah praying for a child outside the temple. This man fell and died from a broken neck after hearing that the Philistines stole the Ark of the Covenant.
After Saul’s disappointing performance as king, Samuel sought the next monarch from the family of this man, the grandson of Ruth and Boaz. Samuel rejected this man’s seven oldests sons in favor of David.
Samuel [or Shmuel; or Shamoel]
Eli [or A’ali]
Jesse [or Eshai; or Yishai; or Yishay; or Yassa]
This is the most fundamental religious characteristic of both Judaism and Islam. For 10 points each:
Name this English term for tawhid - the belief in one, and only one, god.
This Arabic term denotes any sort of “turning away” from God, including egoism, idolatry, and polytheism. It is often divided into akbar and asghar, or greater and lesser, forms.
Egotistical people are doubly bad since they also emulate this figure, who defied God’s command that all angels worship Adam because he was “made of clay”, while this figure was made of fire.
monotheism [accept word forms]
shirk
Satan [or Iblis; or Shaytan; or the Devil]
Name some things related to devotional practices, or bhakti, in Buddhism, for 10 points each.
Devotion is a way to grow closer to the Three Jewels, or Refuges, one of which is this body of Buddha’s teachings about suffering and the ways to escape it.
This Buddha figure “of infinite light” is worshiped by many Mahayana sects, including Pure Land Buddhism. In a long ago past life, this figure was a bodhisattva named Dharmakara.
Many devotionals can be found in the Digha Nikaya part of this collection of Theravada scriptures, whose name means “three baskets”.
dharma [or dhamma]
Amitabha Buddha [or Amitayus Buddha]
Pali Canon [or Tripitaka]
Axel Michaels claims this faith can be divided into three distinct belief systems and four strains of religious behavior. For 10 points each.
Give this Western term for the collection of traditional religions often known as Sanatana Dharma.
Most scholars agree that all forms of Hinduism at least pay lip service to these very old Sanskrit scriptures that are considered shruti, or revealed. They include the Upanishads.
Many aspects of Hindu gods, including the Trimurti, are outlined in these scriptures that were compiled by Vyasa. These texts are often classified into types based on the three gunas.
Hinduism [or religions of the Indian subcontinent; reverse prompt on “religions of any Indian state”]
Vedas
Puranas
Nobody likes tossups on Church councils, so identify these bonus parts on them instead, for 10 points each.
In 325, this first ecumenical council settled the debate over the date of Easter and adopted a namesake creed of beliefs that was later modified at the 381 Council of Constantinople.
In addition to affirming the truth of the Nicene Creed, the Council of Trent rejected this Protestant doctrine as a “vain confidence”. Martin Luther used Romans 3:28 to argue that this principle was the “chief principle” of all Christian doctrine.
Trent also blasted the Utraquists by upholding the practice of withholding this from the lay participants in the Mass. Since Vatican II, this parts, or species, of the Eucharist has become virtually always offered along with the host.
First Council of Nicaea
sola fide [or justification (by grace) through faith alone; accept “salvation” instead of “justification”; PROMPT on “justification by grace through faith”]
wine [or blood of Christ; or cup; or chalice; I guess accept mustum from AA members]
Name some things about the difference between the Jewish and Christian Bibles, for 10 points each.
The Christian Old Testament is a rearrangement of this set of Hebrew Scriptures, whose name reflects its three sections - the Torah, the Prophets, and the Writings.
The Tanakh, like the Old Testament, begins with this book. This book opens with two different creation stories and contains the stories of Cain and Abel and Noah.
This term designates books, like the Odes of Solomon and the Gospel of Barnabas, not included in Christian canons that were purportedly written by important people. Confusingly, some Protestant scholars have conflated this term with “deuterocanonical” and “apocryphal”.
Tanakh [or Miqra]
Book of Genesis [or Bereshit]
pseudepigrapha
According to a 2000 CUNY survey, about 25% of Americans identify as this Christian denomination. For 10 points each:
Name this Protestant denomination that believes a certain sacrament should only be performed on believers who are fully immersed in water.
The first Baptist congregation in the US was founded by either John Clark or this man, who was banished from Salem in 1636 for preaching religious toleration.
Instead of sacraments, Baptists use this term to describe religious rituals like baptism and communion, since they believe them to be rituals of faith, not outward expressions of God’s grace.
Baptists
Roger Williams
ordinances [do not accept “ordination”]
This group displays their poetry skills during Hola Mohalla, and those who violate its code must undergo <em>pesh</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this group of believers who adhere to the 52 hukams and have undergone the amrit ceremony.
Sikhs believe that faith and meditation must be augmented with the tan, man, and dhan forms of this sort of behavior, exemplified by things like feeding and clothing the poor.
Members of the khalsa must adhere to the Panj Kakar, or Five Ks, the first of which prohibits this action. In other religions, this action is performed to create a tonsure.
khalsa
charity [or good works; or community service]
cutting one’s hair [accept shaving]
Kinnot and parts of Lamentations are read at temple on this day, which commemorates the fall of the first and second Temples of Jerusalem. For 10 points each:.
Name this Jewish day of fasting and mourning that falls on the namesake day of a certain Jewish month.
Tisha B’Av also commemorates the pessimism of most of the spies sent to the Promise Land by this man, who, with his brother Aaron, led the Hebrew slaves out of Egypt.
In addition to the five activities banned on Yom Kippur, Tisha B’Av also mostly prohibits engaging in this activity. This activity occurs during the weekly parasha at temple, and a boy does this publicly for the first time at his Bar Mitzvah.
Tisha B’Av [or the ninth of Av]
Moses [or Moshe; or Mousha; or Mousa]
reading the Bible [accept studying for “reading”; accept Torah, Tanakh, scriptures, Holy Book for “Bible”]
It is 1572, and you are a very rich Muslim ruler. Name some of the responsibilities you now have, for 10 points each.
You, like most Muslims you rule, are compelled by the Quran to pay this tithe on your excess income that helps those in need.
Since you belong to this sect of Islam, your zakat contribution is part of the khums, or “fifth” of your income you must give to charity. This sect of Islam also means you believe Ali and his descendents are the true successors of Muhammad.
You do rule over some people exempt from zakat, including this group of non-Muslims, who you protect as long as they pay the Jizya tax to make up for their infidelity.
zakat
Shi’a Islam [or Shi’as; or Shi’i]
dhimmi [or ahl al-dhimma]
The genealogy program FamilySearch helps people obtain information needed to perform this action. For 10 points each:
Name this type of temple ordinance which has been controversially performed on behalf of such people as George Washington, John Paul II, Adolf Hitler, and Jewish victims of the Holocaust.
The most common practitioners of baptism for the dead are members of what Utah based church founded by Joseph Smith?
Within the Mormon church, the two major orders of priesthoods are the Aaronic and this other one, which is named for a man who blesses Abram in Genesis 14.
baptism for the dead [accept equivalents; the point is that the people being baptized are dead]
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [or LDS Church; or Mormon Church]
Melchizedek priesthood
According to Wikipedia, Chinese folk religion is the fourth largest faith in the world. Name some things about it, for 10 points each.
Despite their differences, most varieties of Chinese folk religions incorporate Daoist traditions and believe in this universal life force that flows through every being.
This Daoist thinker argued that wind was nature’s qi. This skeptical relativist is best remembered in the West for wondering if he were a man dreaming he were a butterfly or vice versa.
Many religious sects incorporate principles from this traditional practice of ensuring harmony between nature and humans. The Compass school of this uses the luopan to help determine proper orientation.
qi [or ch’i]
Zhuangzi [or Zhuang Zhou; or Master Zhuang; or Chuang Tzu]
feng shui
Name some things related to the Israelites’ move to Egypt, for 10 points each.
The Israelites moved to Egypt after this son of Jacob became a powerful advisor to the Pharaoh. This man had predicted his rise to power in a series of dreams he told to his brothers.
Joseph was the son of this wife of Jacob, who died giving birth to his brother, Benjamin. This younger daughter of Laban gave her maid Bilhah to Jacob as a concubine.
The Israelites were granted settlement in this area near the Nile Delta. This land was the starting point for the Exodus.
Joseph [or Yosef; or Yusuf; or Yosep]
Rachel [or Rahel; or Rakhel]
Land of Goshen [or Gesem; or Eretz Gosen]
Name these cities holy to Islam. For 10 points each:
The prophet Muhammad was born in this holiest city of Islam, where he also received his first revelation of the Quran. The Hajj is an obligatory pilgrimage to this city.
Initially, Muslims prayed facing toward this city instead of Mecca. According to tradition, the Dome of the Rock in this city stands over the spot from which Muhammad ascended to heaven.
This city in Iraq is home to the Imam Hussein Shrine, and is the site of a battle where Hussein ibn Ali was martyred. Many Shi'a Muslims want to be buried here, as Hussein's tomb is considered a gate to paradise.
Mecca [or Makkah]
Jerusalem
Al-Karbala [Accept Karbala al-Muqaddasah.]
The Passover Plot by Hugh Schonfeild argued that this man conspired with Jesus to fake his death. For 10 points each:
Name this Apostle who betrayed Jesus with a kiss in the Garden of Gethsemane.
More commonly, it's accepted that Judas betrayed Jesus for this sum of money, which was then used to purchase Potter's Field.
This man was chosen as a replacement apostle by the other 11 apostles after Judas hanged himself. The patron saint of carpenters, he's never again mentioned in the New Testament after Acts 1.
Judas Iscariot
30 pieces of silver [Accept anything mentioning 30 things of silver.]
St. Matthias
He killed over a thousand Philistines with a donkey's jawbone. For 10 points each:
Name this man of incredible strength who brought down two pillars to kill many more Philistines. The lover of Delilah, he lost his strength after his hair was cut.
The story of Samson's betrayal is found in this book of the Bible. Other events in this book include Barak and Deborah, the only female member of the titular group, leading an attack against Jabin.
The Book of Judges also tells the story of this judge, who led an attack on the Midianites with only three hundred men who sipped water like dogs. This man's son Abimelech killed seventy of his half-brothers.
Samson
Book of Judges
Gideon
In Shia Islam, Ali was the first of these leaders, who are believed to have been appointed by God and therefore have infallibility, or ismah. for 10 points each:
Name these people, who, in the Sunni tradition, lead religious worship at mosques.
This group of Shi'ites believe that the Muhammad ibn al-Hassan was really the messianic Mahdi figure who would return to Earth with the help of Isa. They venerate the namesake number of imams.
Twelvers subscribe to ten "Ancillaries of Faith," including this practice, which translates into English as "to struggle." The Sword Verse of the Koran is thought to concern this, which a few Sunnis argue to be the sixth pillar.
imams
Twelver Shi'ism [prompt on "Twelve"]
jihad
Shamans conduct rituals called gut in Muism, a traditional religion from this nation. For 10 points each:
Name this East Asian nation which is home to the Unification Church, led by a man who calls himself the Messiah.
The founder of Korea's Unification Church is this man, who leads the so-called "True Family" and wrote the Divine Principle governing his church.
Moon is known for presiding over massive ceremonies of this type. In Judaism, these ceremonies take place under a canopy called a chupah and after presenting the ring, the groom breaks a piece of glass with his foot.
South Korea [or the Republic of Korea; prompt on "Korea"; do not accept "Democratic People's Republic of Korea"]
Sun Myung Moon
weddings [or marriages]
Answer the following about the Passion of the Christ, for 10 points each:
Joseph of Arimathea used this object to collect Jesus' blood on the cross. It was earlier used by Jesus to drink wine at the Last Supper.
After he was whipped, Jesus was sarcastically offered this object to wear on his head by Pontius Pilate's soldiers, causing blood to run down his face.
According to John 19, Pilate uttered this two-word Latin phrase when presenting Jesus to a jeering Jerusalem crowd. It literally means, "Behold the man."
the Holy Grail [or the Holy Chalice; or Sangreal]
crown of thorns
Ecce homo
One aspect of this deity set the sun and moon in motion, ruled over the wind, and was known as Ehecatl. For 10 points each:
Name this Aztec god of the morning star who stole bones from Mictlan and mixed in his own blood in order to recreate the human race. His name translates to "feathered serpent" and HernÃ¡n CortÃ©s was mistaken for him.
This twin brother of Quetzalcoatl had the head of a dog and was the Aztec god of thunder. He was also the god of death in the sense that he guided dead souls to the underworld.
This Aztec god of rain ruled over his namesake level of the afterlife, a paradise populated by people whose deaths were related to water. His wife Xochiquetzal was kidnapped by Tezcatlipoca.
Quetzalcoatl
Xolotl
Tlaloc
The term rebbe usually refers to leaders in this movement. For 10 points each:
Name this movement founded by Baal Shem Tov in the early 18th century. Chabad is a sub-denomination of this larger movement, whose name literally translates as "piety."
Hasidic Judaism is a branch of this sect of Judaism, which is more observant than the Reform and Conservative movements. 
One common tradition observed by Hasidic Jews is wearing these objects at all times. These objects are located at each corner of the Jewish prayer shawl, though a blue dye called tekhelet is no longer added to them.
Hasidism [or Chasidism; or  Hasidic Judaism]
Orthodox Judaism
tzitzit [or fringes]
One example of these ends with the Buddha stating, "A good horse runs even at the shadow of a whip." For 10 points each:
Name these anecdotes or parables which are designed to be reflected upon while meditating, which tend to present impossible or paradoxical situations. A famous one asks, "What is the sound of one hand clapping?"
Koans come from this religion, which split off from Mahayana Buddhism under Bodhidharma in the 6th century A.D. and is popular in China, Japan, Vietnam, and Korea.
Before Zen Buddhism was brought in during the 12th century, this sect was introduced to Japan in the 9th century by Saicho. It teaches mainly from the Lotus Sutra, and has a close relative in Shingon Buddhism.
koans
Zen Buddhism
Tendai Buddhism 
This author described one location as "true poverty and absolute nothingness." For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Seven Valleys, born Mirza Husayn 'Ali Nuri. He founded a religion whose calendar features nineteen months with nineteen days each and also wrote the Kitab-i-Aqdas, that religion's central book.
Baha'u'llah founded this monotheistic faith, which is governed from the Universal House of Justice in Haifa, Israel. Shoghi Effendi was one of its Guardians.
Baha'u'llah's last major work was titled "Epistle to the Son" of one of these animals. St. Francis befriended one of these animals at Gubbio.
Baha'u'llah
Baha'i
wolf [or wolves]
The Amesha Spentas, or "divine sparks," represent a code of right morals and good deeds in this religion. For 10 points each:
Name this dualistic faith, the official religion of the Parthian empire, which uses fire temples as a place of worship. The Avesta is a collection of its central texts.
The prophet Zoroaster described the conflict between this creator god and the "destructive spirit" Angra Mainyu. This chief god is assisted by the Amesha Spentas and is praised in the Yasna.
This collection of holy scriptures, which includes the "Best Beloved" and "Bounteous Spirit" hymns, is said to have been written by Zoroaster. These hymns are included in the Yasna.
Zoroastrianism [or Zarathustraism; or Mazdaism; or Magianism]
Ahura Mazda [or Hormuz; or Ohrmazd]
Gathas
When this object is raised in the air, the Israelites are able to defeat the Amalekites, but when it's lowered, they start losing the battle. For 10 points each:
Name this object that transforms into a snake at the burning bush.
More notably, Moses held his staff up over this body of water, causing the water to part and allowing the Israelites to escape from Egypt.
Aaron's rod, on the other hand, sprouted almonds during Korah's rebellion, caused when Moses insisted that this tribe of Israel would hold the priesthood. This tribe includes the kohanim and names a book of the Bible.
the Staff of Moses [prompt on partial answer; accept synonyms for "staff," like "rod"]
Red Sea [or the sea of reeds; or Yam Suph]
Levi [or Levites]
Answer the following about syncretism in Latin America, for 10 points each:
Mexicans construct altars and create icons of La Catrina in order to celebrate this holiday, which takes place on November 1 and 2. It involves the celebration of the spirits of those who have passed away.
Catholicism and Yoruban traditions blend in this Cuban religion also known as Lucumi, which has recently come under criticism for its permission of animal sacrifice.
Adherents to this other Yoruban religion congregate at open spots called terreiros. It's most popular today in Brazil. Like in Santeria, adherents believe in orishas and are called the "povo de santo."
Day of the Dead [or el DÃ­a de los Muertos]
Santeria
CandomblÃ© [or Macumba]
Answer the following about a period in the Christian calendar, for 10 points each:
This three-to-four week period directly leads up to Christmas. It is famous for its use of a candle-laden wreath, and the hymn "O Come, O Come, Emmanuel" is often sung during it.
This is the liturgical color of Advent for most Christian denominations. In addition to a rose candle, three candles of this color are used in the Advent wreath, and it's also commonly used in vestments for Lent.
Advent begins on the Sunday nearest November 30th, a day dedicated to this Saint. He names a kind of cross seen on the flag of Scotland.
Advent
purple [or violet]
Saint Andrew the Apostle
It originated at an ecumenical council that ruled in opposition to Arius, stating that the Son was of the same substance as the Father. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian creed spoken after the homily during the Catholic Mass. It begins, "We believe in one God, the Father Almighty, maker of Heaven and Earth."
The Nicene Creed was modified at a council named for this city, which is also the seat of the effective leader of the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Much controversy was caused by this Latin phrase in the Nicene Creed, meaning "and from the Son," that was accepted by the Western Church but not the East.
Nicene Creed
Constantinople [accept Istanbul]
Filioque clause
 This text's four principal nations include the Lamanites, who were cursed with dark skin. 
Name this sacred text that Joseph Smith translated from Reformed Egyptian engravings on golden plates.
This son of Mormon and final prophet of the Nephites appeared to Smith as an angel and gave him the plates. 
In Third Nephi, this figure goes on a three-hour destroying spree that takes out the cities of Moroni and Jerusalem. In Islam, he is known as Isa ibn Maryam.
The Book of Mormon
Moroni
Jesus Christ [accept either]
On this day, the kinnot are recited following a reading of the Book of Lamentations.
Name this "Black Fast" of Judaism, which commemorates such tragic events as the expulsion of the Jews from Spain.
Tisha B'av primarily commemorates the destruction of this place of worship, from which Jesus expelled some moneylenders.
The first and second temples were located in this holiest city of Judaism, the capital of modern-day Israel.
Tisha B'av [or the Ninth of Av]
temple [or Beit haMikDash; accept First Temple or Temple of Solomon]
Jerusalem [or Yerushalayim]
This book begins with a decree that all male Jewish babies be killed.
Name this second book of the Torah, which features the Ten Plagues and the parting of the Red Sea.
This brother of Miriam parts the Red Sea and receives the Ten Commandments in the Book of Exodus.
This object owned by Moses's brother turns into a serpent when cast to the ground.
Book of Exodus [or Sh'mot]
Moses [or Mosheh]
Aaron's rod [accept equivalents like Aaron's staff; prompt on Staff of Moses]
One journey from this city ended at Yathrib.
Name this holiest city in Islam, the destination of the hajj pilgrimage.
This cube-shaped building in Mecca contains the Black Stone and is the primary destination of Muslim pilgrims.
This is the Arabic term for the ritual counterclockwise circling of the Kaaba during a hajj.
Mecca
Kaaba [or Sacred House; or Baytu I-Hiram]
tawaf
This religion requires believers to only wear clothing that is red, black, gold, or green.
Name this religion founded by Leonard P. Howell, whose members eat Ital food and may belong to "Mansions."
Rastafarianism was founded in this Caribbean country where reggae music was developed.
This longtime emperor of Ethiopia wasn't a Rastafarian himself, but he is revered by Rastafarians as their savior.
Rastafarianism [or Rastafari Movement]
Jamaica
Haile Selassie I [prompt on partial answer; accept Ras Tafari Makonnen Woldmikael]
In this text, a man eats a book that tastes like honey in his mouth but makes his belly bitter.
Name this book of the Bible, which notes that the number of the beast is 666 and that 144,000 people will be saved before an epic sky-battle between Saint Michael and Satan.
Tradition holds that the Book of Revelation was written by this author of the fourth gospel.
John writes that he was on this island when Jesus appeared to him and showed him the events of Revelation.
Book of Revelation [do not accept "Revelations"]
John the Apostle [or Yohanna]
Patmos
Martin Luther derived the Sacramental union from this concept.
Name this transformation of consecrated food into the whole of Christ.
Transubstantiation occurs during this part of the Mass, during which the faithful take consecrated bread and wine.
During transubstatiation, consecrated wine turns into this holy substance that was "shed for you."
transubstantiation
communion [or Eucharist]
blood of Christ [accept equivalents]
Name the following about Jesus speaking to his followers,
At this meal, Jesus says that one of the Apostles will betray him and that Peter will thrice deny knowing him.
This speech, Jesus's longest in the Bible, includes rhetorical questions like "Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?" and "Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?"
The Sermon on the Mount begins with this series of blessings, which includes an invocation to the "meek," who "will inherit the earth."
Last Supper
Sermon on the Mount [or Sermo in monte]
Beatitudes
[missing]
 Name this religion that reveres nature spirits called kami. It is the most widely practiced religion in Japan.
 Many shinto shrines have these traditional gate structures at their entrances. Usually built with curved roof-like components, they symbolize the threshold between the sacred and the profane.
 The Misogi harai ritual in Shinto makes use of this substance, which is also used in a mikvah in Judaism.
 Shintoism
 torii
 water
[missing]
 Name this Christian holiday, which celebrates the day the Apostles gained the ability to speak many languages.
 The first Pentecost is described in this text, which is attributed to Saint Luke. Its first chapter records how Matthias was selected to be the Twelfth Apostle to replace the dead Judas.
 This man was the dedicatee of both Acts and the Gospel of Luke. His actual identity is unknown and his name simply means "friend of God."
 Pentecost [or Whitsunday]
 Acts of the Apostles
 Theophilus
[missing]
 Name this month during which Muslims practice sawm, the pillar of Islam that dictates fasting during this period.
 Ramadan ends on this holiday, which literally translates to "festival to break the fast". In India and Pakistan the eve of this holiday is also celebrated and called Chaand Raat due to its hailing of the new moon.
 This "Greater Eid" translates to "festival of sacrifice" and celebrates Ibrahim's willingness to sacrifice his son Isma'il. Its three-day celebration ends the Hajj.
 Ramadan [or Ramzan]
 Eid ul-Fitr
 Eid al-Adha
[missing]
 Name this holiday that takes place seven weeks after Passover, and commemorates how the Israelites received the Torah from God at Mount Sinai.
 Despite having oil enough to last a single day, the Jews in the Second Temple were able to keep their menorah lit for eight days. This is celebrated on this other Jewish holiday associated with dreidels.
 The miracle celebrated on Hanukkah took place during this Biblical conflict, in which the Jews rose up in rebellion against the Seleucid Empire and established the Hasmonean dynasty in Judea.
 Shavuot
 Hanukkah
 Revolt of the Maccabees [Accept anything relating to a rebellion by the Machabees or Maqabim]
[missing]
 Name this Hindu holiday known as the "Festival of Colors," during which people throw colored chalk on one another. It also involves a ritual bonfire.
 One story explaining the origin of Holi is that this destroyer god's wife Uma covered his eyes with her hands, so he grew a third eye that opened and returned light to the world.
 Another Hindu ritual involving fire is this one, which honors gods like Durga and Lakshmi by offering lighted lamps and sacred food to their images.
 Holi
 Shiva or Siva
 puja
[missing]
 Name this heresy opposed by Athanasius that held that the Son of God was a distinct entity from God himself.
 Another heresy, Nestorianism, rejected the title of Theotokos, or "bringer forth of God," for this woman who gave birth in a manger in Bethlehem.
 This dualistic heresy arose in the Languedoc region of southern France and advocated the pursuit of personal perfection through self-denial of things like sexual reproduction.
 Arianism
 Mary
 Catharism [or anything about Albigensians]
[missing]
 Foods that are within the guidelines of Jewish law are given this name. Pork is not considered this due to the cloven hooves of pigs, and shellfish and many insects are also prohibited.
 This text includes a list of non-kosher birds, among them the eagle, the vulture, and the buzzard. More importantly, it features three sermons given by Moses to the Israelites and is the fifth book of the Bible.
 According to this theory, the Song of Moses section of Deuteronomy was originally an independent poem. This theory, sometimes named for Wellhausen, states that the Torah came together from various parallel narratives.
 kosher [or kashrut]
 Deuteronomy
 documentary hypothesis
[missing]
 Name this book of the Old Testament named for a prophet who is cast into a lion's den by King Darius, but is found still alive the next morning.
 Daniel interprets a dream that contains one of these made of four different metals. Another one of these objects in the Old Testament is constructed out of gold earrings by Aaron, and the Kaaba used to hold these items.
 This idol sometimes mentioned in the Book of Daniel is often paired with "the dragon." Cyrus believes that this idol eats and drinks, but Daniel reveals that seventy priests eat the food sacrificed to it.
 Book of Daniel
 idols [Accept cult images; Prompt on "statue" or "golden calf"]
 Bel
[missing]
 This religion's lunar calendar alternates between 29 and 30-day months and has leap days eleven times every thirty years. Year one in its calendar began with a certain prophet's flight from Mecca to Medina.
 The calendar of this religion begins with the New Year festival of Nowruz and sets its first year during the reign of the last Sassanid emperor. It also includes six gahambar festivals celebrating the Amesha Spentas.
 The Jewish calendar has two months of this name seven years out of every nineteen to accommodate for the difference between a lunar and solar calendar. The festival of Purim occurs during this month.
  Islam [Prompt on any sects of Islam.]
 Zoroastrianism [Accept Mazdaism.]
 Adar
[missing]
 Name this 2nd and longest chapter of a holy book that contains the Ayat al-Kursi, or "Throne Verse."
 The Al-Baqara is a section of this holy book of Islam, which is divided into 114 total suras and was first compiled by Abu Bakr after Muhammad's death.
 One Hadith claims that reciting the Ayatul Kursi after performing this pillar of worship will grant protection from Allah until the next time it is performed. It consists of five daily prayers facing the direction of Mecca.
 Al-Baqara [or Cow Sura]
 Qur'an
 Salat [or Salah]
[missing]
 Name this martyr who survived being tied to a post and shot with many arrows, forcing the Romans to try again by beating him to death.
 This saint was sentenced by the Sanhedrin while serving as deacon in Jerusalem shortly after Christ's death, thus becoming the first Christian martyr.
 Saint Catherine rejected Emperor Maxentius' marriage proposal by stating that she had already dedicated her virginity to Christ; the first attempt on her life failed when God destroyed one of these torture instruments.
 Saint Sebastian
 Saint Stephen
 a breaking wheel [or a Catherine Wheel]
[missing]
 An angel freed St. Peter after a king by this name had imprisoned him and killed St. James. Another king by this name ordered the "massacre of the innocents" to dispose of the Christ child.
 As Jesus prophesied, St. Peter denied him three times after his capture and only recognized his sins after hearing the cry of one of these animals.
 Peter was told that "they who take the sword shall perish with the sword" after he did this to a soldier named Malchus.
 King Herod [or King Herod Agrippa; or Agrippa]
 a cock [or a rooster]
 cut off his ear
[missing]
 Name this sacrament begun by Jesus in the Upper Room, where he offered his body and blood to his disciples in the form of bread and wine.
 This is the Catholic doctrine according to which the bread and wine consumed in the Eucharist are literally, not figuratively, the body and blood of Christ.
 In the early years of Christianity, the Eucharist was connected to these communal meals among Christians. They are named after a Greek word for "love" that Christians distinguish from "eros" and "philia."
 Holy Communion [or Eucharist]
 transubstantiation
 agape
[missing]
 This former tax collector became one of the Twelve Disciples of Christ, and later preached in Judea before going to unknown foreign lands. He authored the first of the four Gospels.
 This Chinese philosopher was reportedly taught by the grandson of Confucius himself. His interpretation of Confucius's writings formed the basis for the later Neo-Confucian thinkers.
 This Syrian religious reformer claimed to be a messenger of God, an idea on which Bahaullah founded the Baha'i faith. His name means "Gate" and he was executed by the Persian government in 1850.
 Saint Matthew
 Mencius [Accept Meng Zi, Meng Tzu, or Meng Ke, or Meng Ko.]
 the Bab [Accept either underlined part of Siyyid Mirza Ali-Muhammad Shirazi.]
[missing]
 This deity is the embodiment of chaos, and has a name that literally means "destructive mentality." He provides the antithesis to the "bounteous spirit" with which Ahura Mazda conceived of creation.
 The Avesta, the primary collection of Zoroastrianism's sacred texts, takes its name from a language from the eastern part of this country. Emperors of this country, like Darius and Xerxes, were followers of Zoroastrianism.
 This father of Angra Mainyu and Ahura Mazda was the namesake of an extinct sect of Zoroastrianism. This figure represented the infinity of time and space.
 Angra Mainyu or Ahriman
 Persia [Accept Iran.]
 Zurvan
[missing]
 Name this religion founded to improve the welfare of African Americans by Wallace D. Fard Muhammad. It is currently led by Louis Farrakhan and once counted Malcolm X as one of its members.
 Nation of Islam teaches that these people were created on the island of Patmos by the deviant Dr. Yakub. This offers a pretty good explanation of why not too many members of this "race of devils" have joined the Nation of Islam.
 Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad identified the wheel from the Book of Ezekiel as this UFO, which was built in Japan for billions of dollars of gold. This aircraft contains 1,500 smaller versions of itself.
 Nation of Islam
 white people [Accept Caucasian or European people.]
 the Mother Plane or Mother Wheel
Amrit Sanchar is a baptism ceremony in this religion.
 Name this Indian religion founded by Guru Nanak, whose spiritual center is the Golden Temple in Amritsar. 
This Indian religion follows a principle of extreme nonviolence called ahimsa. Its two main sects are the Svetambara, whose monks wear white clothes, and the Digambara, whose monks wear no clothes. 
Worshipers of this Hindu god celebrate a holiday called his "great night," during which a phallic representation of him called a Lingam must be bathed. 
 Sikhism 
Jainism [or Jaina Dharma; or Jainamatam or Samanam] 
Shiva [or Siva] 
Every section but one in this book begins with the Bismillah. 
Name this religious text of Islam, which was revealed to Muhammad by the angel Gabriel. 
These passages are generally considered the chapters of the Qur'an and are further divided into various ayat. The second one is the longest and refers to the sacrifice of a cow. 
This is the name given to the collections of sayings of the Prophet Muhammad. One group of them, the qudsi, contains words that came originally from God. 
al-Qur'an [or the Koran] 
Sura [or Surat; or Suwar]
Hadith [or Hadiths; or ahadith] 
This man is credited with writing the Gathas, a set of hymns in Old Avestan. 
Name this man, the founder of a religion that worships fire as a sacred symbol of Ahura Mazda. 
Zoroastrianism was the primary religion of Persia, which is largely coterminous with this modern-day country. 
The predominant religion of modern-day Iran is this second-largest sect of Islam, which believes that only God can choose the successor to Muhammad. 
Zoroaster [or Zarathustra; accept Zoroastrianism] 
 Islamic Republic of Iran [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran]
Shia Islam [or Shi'ite Islam; or Shias; or Shi'ites; or Shiism] 
This group left Kirtland, Ohio, following the failure of their bank, the Kirtland Safety Society. For 10 points each:
Name this religious group whose largest denomination settled Utah under the leadership of Brigham Young.
Mormonism was founded by this man, who found a series of golden plates in "reformed Egyptian" after they were revealed to him by the angel Moroni in Palmyra, New York.
After the Mormons left Ohio and were expelled from Missouri, they settled in the city of Nauvoo in this state. This state's city of Carthage was where Smith and his brother Hyrum were killed by an anti-Mormon mob.
Mormons [accept Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints; or LDS Church]
Joseph Smith Jr.
Illinois
The Book of Genesis tells the story of this man who fled a burning city. For 10 points each:
Name this man, whose wife turned into a pillar of salt when she looked back at the city that they had fled.
Lot and his wife were fleeing this city, which along with Gomorrah, was burned when God could not find one righteous man.
This uncle of Lot impregnated his wife Sarah when he was 100 years old and also fathered Ishmael with Hagar.
Lot
Sodom
Abraham [or Abram; or Avram; or Avrohom; or Avraham]
This god was beheaded by his father after Parvati told him not to let anyone inside the house. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Parvati and Shiva, an elephant-headed god of wisdom.
Ganesha typically has between two and sixteen of these body parts, of which Vishnu typically has four.
In the Benne Alankara ritual, Hindus smear statues of Ganesha with this food item, which is called ghee in its clarified form.
Lord] Ganesha [or Ganapati; or Vinayaka; or Pillaiyar; or Vighnesha; or Vighneshvara]
arms
butter
An example of one of these logical constructs was formulated by Aristotle and states that there must be an unmoved mover. For 10 points each:
Name these types of demonstrations, one of which is the ontological argument.
This Catholic saint formulated five arguments for the existence of God in his Summa Theologica.
This evolutionary biologist and new atheist argued that all of the so-called proofs of God's existence are fallacious in his book The God Delusion.
logical proofs of God's existence [accept equivalents such as arguments for God, etc.]
St. Thomas Aquinas [or Thomas of Aquin; or Thomas Aquino; prompt on Thomas]
Clinton] Richard Dawkins
This school of Buddhism encourages meditation in positions such as the full- or half-lotus. 
Name this Buddhist school, founded by Bodhidharma, which teaches that anyone can achieve spiritual enlightenment with the aid of a master. 
This Buddhist doctrine is the belief in a system of cause and effect, where an individual's good or bad deeds affect their life later on as well as their cycle of rebirth, or samsara. 
 Central to Buddhism are four statements about dukkha, which typically are translated as "Four Noble" statements of this type. 
 Zen Buddhism
karma
Four Noble Truths 
Name some things about worship in Islam, 
These buildings are the center of Muslim worship. The Masjid al-Haram in Mecca is the largest in the world. 
Islamic mosques generally have one or more of these structures attached. They are tall, narrow towers from which the call to prayer is given. 
 When Muslims pray, they must face this direction, the direction of the Kaaba in Mecca denoted by the Mihrab. 
mosques 
 minarets 
the Qibla 
It's not a Buddha, but the Pure Land sect chants the name of Amitabha, one of these beings in order to achieve nirvana.
Name these enlightened beings who remain to help others become enlightened.
This popular bodhisattva has been reincarnated in both male and female forms, including Amitabha, and is known as Guanyin in China or as Chenrezig and Tara in Tibet. She is the bodhisattva of infinite mercy.
In Tibet, Avalokiteshvara presents himself in the form of one of these religious teachers, the head of which is the "Dalai" type of these teachers.
bodhisattva
Avalokiteshvara [accept Lokesvara, Lokanatha, Natha Deviyo, Kannon or  Kennon]
lama
This man once fell asleep with his feet pointed towards Mecca, angering some watchmen. For 10 points each:
Name this man who advocated selfless worship of God through sharing, honest living, and chanting God's name, or naam japna.
Guru Nanak founded this monotheistic religion that blended elements of Hinduism and Islam. Particularly devoted members of this religion form part of the khalsa.
One of the symbols of Sikhism, kachcha, is a special version of this item. Mormons are given a sacred version of this item at a ceremony and wear it for the remainder of their life.
Guru Nanak Dev Ji
Sikhism
underwear [accept equivalents like undergarments]
This school of Buddhism holds women as sacred and, because it is dangerous, is highly secret. For 10 points each:
Name this school of Buddhism that practices deity yoga and utilizes sex as a path to enlightenment.
Tantrism originated with followers of this Hindu destroyer god.
The principles of Tantric Buddhism influenced the ideals of Shingon Buddhism, a branch of Buddhism popular in this country. The religious group Aum, now called Aleph, is also based out of this country.
 Tantrayana [or Tantric; or Vajrayana; or Mantrayana]
Shiva
Japan
One of the oldest and most important of these claims, "Everything is loved not for its own sake, but because the Self lives in it." For 10 points each:
The Brihadaranyaka is part of this voluminous collection of Hindu commentaries whose name means "sitting nearby."
One concept that originated in the Upanishads is this Sanskrit word, meaning the reality that is perceived, rather than the ultimate reality. It can be translated as "fraud," "not that," or "illusion."
Each of the Upanishads is associated with one of the four of these oldest sacred Hindu texts, the best known of which is the collection of hymns known as the Rig one.
Upanishads
Maya
Vedas
These figures have lived anywhere from 72 to quintillions of years, and the first was named Rishaba. For 10 points each:
Name these figures whose collective name is Sanskrit for "ford maker," and who are particularly enlightened beings whose most recent member was named Mahavira.
Tirthankaras are central to this Indian religion whose practitioners follow the five Mahavrata, or "great vows," which include ahimsa, or "nonviolence."
This Jain sect's name translates to "sky-clad," an allusion to the fact that monks of the sect wear no clothes, as opposed to their "white-clad" brethren who wear white clothes.
Tirthankaras 
Jainism [or Jains]
Digambara
These figures have lived anywhere from 72 to quintillions of years, and the first was named Rishaba. For 10 points each:
Name these figures whose collective name is Sanskrit for "ford maker," and who are particularly enlightened beings whose most recent member was named Mahavira.
Tirthankaras are central to this Indian religion whose practitioners follow the five Mahavrata, or "great vows," which include ahimsa, or "nonviolence."
This Jain sect's name translates to "sky-clad," an allusion to the fact that monks of the sect wear no clothes, as opposed to their "white-clad" brethren who wear white clothes.
Tirthankaras 
Jainism [or Jains]
Digambara
[missing]
The five pillars are enumerated in one collection of these sayings or actions of Muhammad. Each consists of isnad and matn, which describe the chain of narrators who related the saying, as well as the content of the saying.
This pillar is the statement that there is no God but God and Muhammad is his prophet. An honest recitation of this phrase is all that is necessary to become a Muslim.
This pillar is the practice of giving 2.5% of one's income to the poor or needy. Some Saudi charities have been criticized for using these donations to fund Palestinian relief organizations, including Hamas.
hadiths
shahada
[missing]
It begins, "In the beginning was the word," and is the only gospel to describe the resurrection of Lazarus. For 10 points each:
Name this non-synoptic gospel, whose author is traditionally identified with the beloved disciple.
The beloved disciple outran Simon Peter on the way to the cave owned by this man, who donated it for the burial of Jesus' body. He is named for an otherwise unknown city in Judaea.
Absent from the Gospel of John is the post-resurrection appearance of Jesus to Cleopas on the road to this place. Cleopas does not recognize Jesus until their evening meal when they reach this destination.
Gospel of John
Joseph of Arimathea
Emmaus
In one story this figure exchanged a bowl of stew for the birthright of his brother Esau, and he later tricked his father Isaac into receiving his blessing. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish patriarch who dreamt of a ladder to heaven prior to his marriages to Leah and Rachel.
Jacob is also the name of the brother of this figure according to the Book of Mormon. He is the author of the first two books of the Book of Mormon, in which this son of Lehi retrieves some Brass Plates from Laban.
Dr. Yakub created white people through selective breeding on Patmos according to this religion founded by W. Fard Muhammad and currently led by Louis Farrakhan
Jacob
Nephi
Nation of Islam
It is preceded by the Three Weeks, a period in which no marriages or haircuts can occur. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday that follows the seventeenth of Tammuz, a period of mourning and fasting for Jews on which the Book of Lamentations is read.
Tisha B'Av commemorates the destruction of two temples, the first of which was built by this wise king, the son of David.
Also on the ninth of Av, the Israelites were barred from entering the Promised Land for a generation after Joshua and this man were the only two optimistic spies from the twelve who saw Canaan.
Tisha B'Av
Solomon
Caleb
Moksha is the release from this process, which is the tendency to keep creating worlds and moving into them. For 10 points each:
Name this cycle of birth, life, death, and reincarnation common to Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism.
This word denotes the nature of the actions a person performs in their life and is the law of moral causation that governs samsara.
This Buddhist term encompasses the state of nature as it is, the laws of nature, the duties that must be performed in accordance with the laws of nature, and the results that are derived from the fulfillment of said duties.
samsara
karma
dharma [or dhamma]
The Counting of the Omer is the counting of the forty-nine days between Passover and this holiday. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish holiday that corresponds with the end of the barley harvest. It is traditional to consume dairy foods on this day, which also sees the reading of the Book of Ruth.
Shavuot commemorates God's delivery of the Ten Commandments, as well as this text, to Moses atop Mount Sinai. This text consists of the first five books of the Bible.
This woman in the book of Ruth is the wife of Elimelech and mother-in-law of Ruth, with whom she travels to Bethlehem.
Shavuot
Torah [or Pentateuch]
Naomi
The villain's name is drowned out during a reading of the Megillah during this holiday, during which participants give gifts of food after fasting the day before. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish holiday on the 14th of Adar that celebrates victory over a ruler who sought to bring about the destruction of the Jewish people.
This Old Testament book is read on Purim. It tells the story of a woman whom Ahasuerus found beautiful and pleads on behalf of her people at the urging of her cousin Mordechai.
This is the aforementioned villain whose name is drowned out when it is read. This prime minister to Ahasuerus sought to kill all the Jews after Mordechai refused to bow to him.
Purim
Book of Esther
Haman
This annual event involves rituals like the stoning of the devil, circling the Kaaba, and kissing the Black Stone. For 10 points each:
Identify this pillar of Islam that involves a pilgrimage to Mecca and is required of each capable Muslim once in their lives.
During the Hajj, pilgrims circle the Kaaba, a black stone building built by this Islamic patriarch for his wife Hagar and their son Ishmael. His willingness to sacrifice his son Ishmael is commemorated on Eid al-Adha.
The Hajj also includes drinking from this water source that was miraculously revealed to Hagar by the angel Gabriel when he scraped his wing against the ground.
Hajj
Ibrahim [or Abraham]
Well of Zamzam
The shrines of this faith have gates called torii and inner sanctuaries known as honden. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese religion whose name means "way of the spirits".
This term refers to spirits or mystical elements in Shinto. Examples include Izanami and Izanagi.
This holiest Shinto shrine complex located in Mie province supposedly houses the sacred mirror. Its inner Naiku shrine is dedicated to the sun goddess while the outer shrine, Geku, is dedicated to an agriculture goddess.
Shintoism
kami
Grand Ise Shrine [or Ise Jingu]
This term literally means "enlightenment being" in Sanskrit. For 10 points each:
Name these beings who temporarily forsake nirvana in favor of leading others on the path to enlightenment
Bodhisattvas are an integral concept to this "Great Vehicle" sect of Buddhism, which includes Zen and Pure Land Buddhism. Along with Theravada, it is currently considered one of the two main branches of Buddhism.
In Tibetan Buddhism, this spiritual leader is considered to be the embodiment of the bodhisattva of compassion, Avalokitesvara. The fourteenth and current man to hold the position is Tenzin Gyatso.
bodhisattvas 
Mahayana
Dalai Lama [prompt on lama]
His many avatars include the fish Matsya and the dwarf Vamana. For 10 points each:
Name this deity whose avatars also include Rama and Krishna. He is seen as the preserver within the Hindu Trimurti
Vishnu, in the guise of Lord Krishna, serves as charioteer and adviser to Arjuna prior to the Battle of Kurukshetra in this Hindu scripture taken from the Mahabharata.
Arjuna, along with Bhima and his three other brothers, constitute this group of brothers who war with their cousins, the Kauravas, during the Mahabharata.
Vishnu
Bhavagad Gita
Pandavas 
New World examples of this type of faith include CandomblÃ©. For 10 points each:
 Name this process by which beliefs or practices from two separate religious traditions merge into a viable tradition
 The spirits called loa, worshiped by this syncretic faith, are often equated with Catholic saints. This religion emerged among African slaves in Haiti.
Africa's Yoruba people, from whom Voodoo and Santeria derived much influence, worship this supreme god who rules above accessible spirits called orishas.
SYNCRETISM
VOODOO
OLORUN
Three thousand people were supposedly baptized on this day after hearing a sermon by the Apostle Peter
Name this holiday, often called Whitsun or Whitsuntide, a feast day that commemorates the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles. 
Pentecost, which literally means "the fiftieth day," is related to this Jewish harvest festival that commemorates the receiving of the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai.
The story of the Pentecost is told in this New Testament book authored by Luke, which centers on the conversion of Paul and lies immediately after the four gospels.
Pentecost
Shavuot [or Shavuos]
Acts of the Apostles
Its "Four Affirmations" include love of nature, tradition and the family, physical cleanliness, and matsuri, or festivals. 
Identify this primary Japanese religion, whose adherents worship such kami as Izanami, Izanagi, and Raijin.
Common features of Shinto shrines include these gates, whose names may derive from the Japanese for "bird perch." They mark the boundary between the sacred temple and the profane outside world.
The most holy shrine in Shintoism, the Grand Shrine at Ise, is dedicated to this daughter of Izanagi, the Shinto sun goddess.
Shintoism
torii gates
Amaterasu-omikami [accept Ohiru-menomuchi-no-kami]
As a young boy, with a slingshot and some stones, he killed an armored Philistine Giant. 
Name the Biblical figure, who killed Goliath and succeeded Saul as king of Israel.
David married this woman after he sent her husband, Uriah the Hittite, to be killed in battle.
This third son of David was killed by Joab in the Wood of Ephraim after trying to conquer Jerusalem with a group of Hebrons. He had earlier sent his servants to murder Amnon to avenge the rape of his sister Tamar.
David [accept Dawid or Dawud]
Bathsheba
Absalom [accept Avsalom or Avshalom]
Answer some question about terms from Islam, 
The 19th of these is named for Maryam, the mother of Isa. Composed of ayat, or verses, the first of these chapters of the Koran is known as the al-Fatiha, while others include the Heifer and the Honey Bee.
This phrase begins every sura of the Koran except the ninth. Meaning "In the name of God," it is followed by "ar-rahmani ar-rahimi," which means "most gracious, most merciful."
Considered second in authority and importance to the Koran, these are accounts of the words and deeds of Mohammed.
suras [accept surahs or suwar, the Arabic plural]
bismi-llahi [accept bismillah or basmala]
ahadith [accept sunna]
In the Old Testament book named for this figure, Mordechai foils the assassination plot led by Bigthan and Teresh. 
Identify this second wife of King Ahasueras, the namesake of the book in which Haman attempts and fails to exterminate the Jews.
This holiday, also known as the Feast of Lots, occurs on the 14th of Adar and celebrates the deliverance of the Jews as told in the Book of Esther.
Ahasueras' first wife Vashti was the daughter of this king of Babylon who, according to the Book of Daniel, saw the writing on the wall at a notable feast he held.
Esther [accept the Book of Esther]
Purim
Belshazzar [accept Balthazar or Bel-sarra-usur]
He was accused by "false witnesses" of speaking "blasphemous words against [Â…] the law" and was tried by the Sanhedrin. For 10 points each: 
 St. Paul is said to have encouraged the stoning of this "Protomartyr," whose final speech was an accusation against the Jews of persecuting prophets who spoke out against their sins.
The trial of Saint Stephen is described in this book, the source of the quote "It is more blessed to give than to receive." It follows the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and describes those figures' doings.
The style of Paul's epistles implies that his readers were familiar with this Koine Greek version of the Hebrew bible, which was translated by either seventy or seventy-two scholars for Ptolemy II Philadelphus.
Saint Stephen the Protomartyr [accept Stephanos Protomartys]
Acts of the Apostles
the Septuagint [prompt on "LXX"]
