Parts of this city were destroyed by ISIL, but it will receive tourists again as early as this year. For 10 points each,
Name this Syrian city which grew to power under the rule of Odenathus and Zenobia.
Among the most famous landmarks at Palmyra is the temple of this god, who was worshipped with Aglibol and Yarhibol. This god was worshipped at Rome in the form of a black stone.
Despite Palmyra’s continued control by the Romans, it eschewed using this main language of the Roman empire in favor of Aramaic, Greek, and Arabic.
Palmyra
Bel [or Baal; accept El-Gabal]
Latina &lt;SPQR&gt;
The Gospels describe three different instances of Jesus raising people from the dead. Answer the following about them, for 10 points each.
Jesus’s resurrection of the son of the widow from Nain has often been compared to a story in which this Old Testament figure resurrects the son of the widow of Zarephath by stretching his body over the boy three times.
Jesus was forced to resurrect Jairus’s daughter when he failed to make it to her house in time in order to heal her. On the way, another miracle occurred when a bleeding woman was healed after touching this object.
The Gospel of John reports that Jesus did this action upon hearing of Lazarus’s death. The two-word phrase reporting that Jesus did this action is the shortest verse in the King James Bible.
Elijah
Jesus’s clothes [accept obvious equivalents or more specific answers referencing his cloak]
“Jesus wept” [or edakrusen ho Iesous; accept answers that indicate crying] &lt;MK&gt;
These people use palm or kola nuts, or a chain called Opele to perform <em>ifa</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these people who originated the worship of orishas.
Yoruba ifa is this kind of practice, which was performed on animal livers by haruspices in Ancient Rome. This magical practice of reading signs and omens was performed using the I Ching or with oracle bones in Early China.
Yoruba practices and deities have made their way into many Afro-Caribbean religions described by this adjective, which refers to the fusion of two older belief systems.
Yoruba
divination
syncretic &lt;JR&gt;
During this event, many Muslims fill bottles with water from the spring of Zamzam to bring home. For 10 points each,
Name this pillar of Islam, which consists of a pilgrimage to Mecca. During this event, pilgrims walk around the Kaaba seven times in the ritual of tawaf.
On the tenth day of the Hajj, this action is performed using objects found on Muzdalifa. This action is done following Ibrahim, who was told to do this action by Jibril.
This holiday marks the end of the Hajj and commemorates Ibrahim’s willingness to sacrifice Isma’il. It is sometimes called the Feast of Sacrifice.
Hajj
stoning the devil [or rami-al-jamarat or rajm; prompt on partial answer]
Eid-ul-Adha [accept Eid-al-Kabir; prompt on just Eid or Greater Eid] &lt;HK&gt;
The core of a Bar or Bat Mitzvah ceremony involves being called up to read from this text for the first time. For 10 points each:
Give this Hebrew name for the first five books of the Bible. This name also refers to the large scrolls on which those books are written.
Traditional chanting (or “cantillation”) of the Torah uses these melodic formulas, which are notated with accent-like marks called te’amim. Some of these formulas, such as etnachta, serve a kind of punctuation.
Before reading from the Torah, a blessing is recited which, like most Jewish blessings, begins with this Hebrew word. Shockingly, this word means “Blessed.”
Torah
tropes [accept niggun or neginot]
Baruch [accept Barechu] &lt;JR&gt;
Some historians have speculated that depictions of this figure may have derived from images of king Demetrius I. For 10 points each:
Name this figure who was depicted in the style of a Greek king in art of the first millenium A.D. from Gandhara.
Before the advent of Greco–Buddhist art, depictions of the Buddha had this property, which is required by the Second Commandment. Islamic art uses elaborate geometric patterns because of this prohibition; a description is fine.
Most surviving early Buddhist paintings were found in these locations. Prehistoric paintings of hunting scenes have been found in locations of this kind like Altamira and Lascaux [lah-SKOH].
Buddha Shakyamuni [accept either underlined part; accept Siddhartha Gautama]
they don’t depict people [or aniconic; accept reasonable equivalents; accept more specific answers about not depicting God, animals, Muhammad, etc.]
caves &lt;JR&gt;
The Athenians and Ionians conducted this practice using <em>pharmakoi</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this ritual, which Leviticus commands in order to propitiate Azazel.
Modern Jews rarely conduct the scapegoat ritual on Yom Kippur, but they do read out this Biblical book. This book’s namesake prophet is punished for trying to flee his mission to prophecy the destruction of Nineveh.
Yom Kippur falls ten days after this other Jewish holiday, which marks a new year despite coming at the beginning of the eighth month.
scapegoating [prompt on exiles or sacrifices]
Book of Jonah
Rosh Hashanah [or Yom T’ruah] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the family of Moses:
This sister of Moses watched over his basket in the Nile and later sang the Song of the Sea. She was struck with leprosy after voicing her disapproval of Moses’s wife Zipporah.
Moses forbid his brother Aaron to mourn his sons Nadab and Abihu, who died by this phenomenon after failing to heed proper sacrifice protocol. God called out to Moses from a bush exhibiting this phenomenon.
For 40 years, Moses worked as a shepherd for this father-in-law of his. This man is revered as the founder of the Druze religion.
Miriam
fire [accept reasonable synonyms like burning]
Jethro [accept Reuel] &lt;MK&gt;
This phenomenon makes its second Biblical appearance in First Corinthians, when Paul thanks God for his ability to exhibit it. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon whose widespread occurrence in the Book of Acts led people to believe that Peter and his fellow disciples were drunk.
Speaking in tongues is emphasized in this evangelical Christian movement, which began at the Azusa Street Revival. Assemblies of God is the largest denomination within this movement.
Speaking in tongues is considered a “gift” of this entity, which makes up the Trinity along with the Father and the Son.
speaking in tongues [or glossolalia]
Pentecostalism
Holy Spirit [or Holy Ghost] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about everyone’s favorite medieval monk, Bodhidharma:
Bodhidharma is best known for spreading Buddhism to this country. A religion originating in this country venerates the Eight Immortals.
Bodhidharma legendarily mutilated this part of his body after falling asleep seven years into a meditation session. Dogen’s primary collection of koans is named for a “True Dharma” one of these body parts.
When Bodhidharma’s eyelids hit the ground, they supposedly created the first of these plants. In a Japanese ceremony with roots in Zen Buddhism, one makes the caffeinated drink matcha from “green” leaves of these plants.
China [or Zhongguo] (The other religion is Daoism.)
eyelids
tea plants &lt;AF&gt;
This man left his Plum Village Monastery in November 2018 due to lingering complications of a 2014 stroke. For 10 points each:
Name this Vietnamese Zen Buddhist monk, who has written many books promoting mindfulness and politically engaged Buddhism.
Nhat Hanh has also produced several translations of these texts, which often begin “Thus have I heard.” A short one of these texts named for the heart is often memorized.
Mindfulness is often developed through this practice of focusing attention, which is often performed with eyes closed in the lotus position.
Thich Nhat Hanh [accept Thay]
sutras
meditation &lt;JR&gt;
Most followers of a Protestant movement named for this holiday trace their roots back to the Azusa Street Revival and emphasize the importance of spiritual gifts, including speaking in tongues. For 10 points each:
Name this day celebrated fifty days after Easter Sunday on which the Holy Spirit descended upon the Apostles. The movement named after this day is also sometimes known as the Apostolic or Full Gospel movement.
The coming of the Holy Spirit on Pentecost is recorded in this book of the New Testament.
The descending of the Holy Spirit on Pentecost took place in this first Christan church, which is traditionally considered to be the site of the Last Supper and the washing of the disciples’ feet.
Pentecost (accept Pentecostalism; prompt on Feast of Weeks)
Acts of the Apostles
Cenacle (or the Upper Room) &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
The “best” form of this practice is “the word of Justice in front of the oppressive sultan,” according to one prophet. For 10 points each:
Give this word that most literally means “struggle.” The “greater” form of this practice is self-directed, while its “lesser” counterpart can be done in two different ways.
The concept of jihad is discussed in the ninth surah of this holy book of Islam.
This controversial verse in the ninth surah of the Quran has been used by critics of Islam to suggest that the faith promotes violence against unbelievers.
jihad
Quran
Sword Verse (or answers indicating that it is the fifth verse) &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
This day is the tenth day of Muharram, which is the first month of the Islamic calendar. For 10 points each:
Name this day that commemorates the death of Husayn, the grandson of Muhammad, at the 680 Battle of Karbala. Unlike Ramadan, this remembrance does not involve obligatory fasting.
Sunni [“SOO-nee”] Islam equates the Day of Ashura with this Jewish high holiday that marks the end of the Ten Days of Repentance.
In Turkey, people eat this man’s namesake “pudding” on Ashura to commemorate this man’s Ark being set on dry land on Mount Ararat.
Day of Ashura
Yom Kippur
Noah &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
This religion’s cosmology measures the size of the universe using units called “Rajju,” though the religion’s schools differ on the exact size and shape of the universe. For 10 points each:
Identify this religion that divides the universe into three realms. In this religion, time is divided into six different epochs called aras of increasingly shorter timespans.
Description acceptable. The most important tenet of both Hinduism and Jainism is ahimsa, which can be translated as this concept.
The Jain vow of sallekhana involves the practitioner engaging in this practice to the point of death by lowering their food intake. After converting to Jainism, Chandragupta of the Mauryan Empire willingly died from doing this.
Jainism (or Jain Dharma)
nonviolence (accept descriptive answers like doing no harm or causing no injury; prompt on peace or no killing)
fasting (or starving; I guess also accept not eating) &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
In this book, Jesus assesses the state of the churches in Asia Minor, including Ephesus, Smyrna, and Philadelphia. For 10 points each:
Name this last book of the New Testament that describes the appearance of the Antichrist and the coming of the New Jerusalem.
In Revelation, Jesus addresses seven of these groups in Asia Minor, including ones at Sardis, Philadelphia, and Ephesus.
In Revelation 20, the Dragon is imprisoned for a thousand years in a place that has this specific characteristic.
Book of Revelation (or the Revelation to John or the Apocalypse of John; do NOT accept or prompt on “Book of Revelations”)
churches
a bottomless pit (accept reasonably equivalent descriptive answers; prompt on pit or abyss) &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
This practice is initiated by the <em>adhan</em>, and those performing it point their bodies towards the <em>qibla</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Arabic term denoting the mandatory five prayers a day as part of the Second Pillar of Islam.
Every movement in salah is accompanied by the takbir, which is the practice of saying that this figure is the greatest. Give the Arabic name.
Adherents to this branch of Islam usually offer salah with hands by their side. This branch of Islam generally believes that Muhammad appointed Ali as his sucessor, and its biggest school is the Twelvers.
salah (or salat)
Allah (prompt on God)
Shia Islam (accept Shiites) &lt;Omer/Suh, Religion&gt;
Prince Siddhartha Gautama left his palace for the first time when he was 29 years old. For 10 points each:
Gautama encountered an old man, a sick man, a dead man, and this fourth sight, which caused him to rethink his worldview and renounce his former life.
After achieving enlightenment, Gautama found insight into these four statements, which describe dukkha [“DOOK-kuh”], or suffering, and how to avoid it.
Gautama’s teachings of the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path form the foundation of this Asian religion, whose oldest branch is Theravada.
holy man (or monk or ascetic; prompt on religious man)
Four Noble Truths
Buddhism &lt;Duffy, Religion&gt;
Some of this religion’s religious practices involving animal sacrifice were upheld in a 1993 Supreme Court case. For 10 points each:
Name this non-voodoo religion, adherents of which practice animal sacrifice to spirits called orishas. Olodumare [“OH-loh-doo-MAH-ray”] is one of three manifestations of the Supreme God in this religion.
Initiates into Santería are required to wear clothing of this color for a full year to symbolize a process of complete purification.
Santería, along with Candomblé [“can-DOM-blay”] is a syncretic religion combining elements of Christianity, indigenous Native American beliefs, and the original folk religion of this African ethnic group.
Santería (or Regla de Ocha, La Regla de Ifá, or Lucumí)
white
Yoruba people &lt;Suh, Religion; Finals&gt;
This event is mentioned in Psalms 66, 74, 77, 78, among others. For 10 points each:
Identify this event that was immediately followed by Miriam’s song.
The crossing of the Red Sea is a major episode retold in this second book of the Torah detailing the Israelites’ journey out of Egypt.
Under the leadership of Joshua, the Israelites crossed this other body of water as they prepared to enter into the Promised Land. The territory of the tribe of Manasseh was bisected by this river.
crossing the Red Sea (or Kriat Yam Suph; accept reasonable equivalents of “crossing” like traversing; accept Sea of Reeds in place of “Red Sea”)
Book of Exodus
Jordan River &lt;Suh, Religion; Finals&gt;
The main hall of these places is called the Darbar Sahib. For 10 points each:
Name these places where anyone can receive a free meal in the langar hall. Five of the most special ones of these places are called the Panj Takht.
Gurdwaras are the places of worship in this religion, whose members adhere to the Five Ks.
One of the Five Ks, Kesh, is the rule that Sikhs must maintain this physical condition, which is partially to imitate the appearance of Guru Gobind Singh.
gurdwara (accept but do NOT REVEAL Sikh temples)
Sikhism (or Sikhi)
uncut hair (accept clear-knowledge equivalents; prompt on long hair) &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
The foundational text of this tradition is the <em>Zohar</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this esoteric school of thought in Judaism that teaches ten “emanations” of God called sephirot [“sfee-ROTE”].
Isaac Luria, considered to be the founder of contemporary Kabbalah, was one of these teachers who taught the Torah.
Adherents of Kabbalah believe in gilgul, a form of this commonly-held religious idea that every living being starts a new life in a different physical form after biological death.
Kabbalah (prompt on Jewish mysticism)
rabbi [“RAH-bye”]
reincarnation (or rebirth or transmigration) &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about Old Testament figures who either saw God or the “Angel of the Lord.”
This judge of the Israelites was beating wheat out of a wine press when he encountered the Angel of the Lord sitting under an oak tree. This judge later won a victory against the Midianites with only a force of 300 men.
Manoah and his wife saw the Angel of the Lord, who ordered their child to be dedicated as a Nazirite. That child was this judge who was blinded by the Philistines and died after collapsing the temple of Dagon.
Numbers 12 says that unlike others who saw God through dreams and visions, this man spoke with God face to face. This man also saw the Burning Bush and led the Israelites out of Egypt.
Gideon (or Jerubbaal; or Jerubbesheth)
Samson
Moses &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about prostitutes in the Bible.
According to Genesis, this son of Jacob sleeps with his daughter-in-law Tamar, who disguises herself as a prostitute. This man is also the namesake of the southern successor kingdom of Israel with its capital at Jerusalem.
The prostitute Rahab hid two Israelite spies sent to stake out this city. After this city’s walls came tumbling down, Joshua spared the lives of Rahab and her family in gratitude.
This prophet was ordered by God to take the prostitute Gomer as his wife in order to symbolize Israel’s unfaithful relationship to God.
Judah (or Yehuda; accept Kingdom of Judah)
Jericho
Hosea &lt;Suh, Religion&gt;
This five-day festival symbolizes the triumph of good over evil. For 10 points each:
Name this primarily Hindu autumn holiday known as the festival of lights.
On the third and most important day of Diwali, prayers called puja [“POO-jah”] are offered to this Hindu goddess of wealth and prosperity. This member of the Tridevi is the wife of Vishnu.
On the final day of Diwali, sisters may celebrate their bond with their brothers by marking three lines called a tilaka on the forehead. Some Hindus and Jains wear this different type of marking on their forehead, consisting of a red dot.
Diwali (or Deepavali; or Dipavali)
Lakshmi (or Laxmi; accept Sri or Thirumagal)
bindi &lt;Duffy, Religion&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about animal sacrifice in world religions:
In Islam, animal sacrifice must follow these laws that also forbid Muslims from eating pork and drinking alcohol.
In Hinduism, animal sacrifices are very rare. Instead, offerings of food are made to Agni, the Vedic god of this phenomenon, which is worshipped in namesake temples by Zoroastrians.
Bull sacrifices were central to the late Roman “Mysteries” centering on this Persian god.
halal
fire [accept fire temples]
Mithras [accept Mithraic Mysteries] &lt;JW&gt;
The term for this type of travel in Hindi is <em>yatra</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this general term for travel to holy sites. The Kumbh Mela is a widespread example of this practice that also includes going to Varanasi to celebrate the festival of Dev Deepavali.
The Kumbh Mela involves a pilgrimage to Varanasi and other cities to visit this kind of site, which is accessed through steps called ghats. Kumbh Mela also thus contributes to the massive pollution of these sites in India.
Varanasi is home to two temples dedicated to this Hindu deity. This goddess’s victory over the buffalo demon Mahishasura is celebrated on a festival named for her “Puja.”
pilgrimage [prompt on any answer describing a journey, expedition, etc.]
rivers [accept more specific answers like riverbanks or the Ganges]
Durga [accept Durga Puja] &lt;AF&gt;
This man’s brother Charles wrote hymns like “Hark! The Herald Angels Sing.” For 10 points each:
Name this English theologian, who is best known for founding Methodism.
Methodists were among the first Christians to permit these people to preach. Elizabeth Ann Seton was the first American one of these people to be made a saint.
John Wesley subscribed to this particular belief system, which shares similarities with Calvinism. It was condemned by the Synod of Dort.
John Wesley
women [accept obvious equivalents]
Arminianism &lt;MK&gt;
The possibility of this state is the third of the Four Noble Truths. For 10 points each:
Name this release from dukkha or worldly suffering. Its first stage is often labelled a form of “enlightenment.”
This is the term for a person who forgoes the second stage of nirvana. These people are often contrasted with arhats.
While Mahayana Buddhists aspire to become bodhisattvas, this kind of Buddhist instead emphasizes becoming an arhat. This term, which encompasses Theravada, is seen as slightly offensive, since it means “lesser vehicle.”
nirvana
bodhisattva
Hinayana &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Islamic prayer, or <em>salat</em>:
Salat is one of the five pillars of Islam, along with fasting during this month of the Islamic calendar.
The call to prayer for salat always begins with the takbir, which consists of these words.
How many times is the takbir repeated at the beginning of the call to prayer in most major branches of Islam?
Ramadan
allahu akbar [or God is great or God is the greatest]
four &lt;JW&gt;
In this religion’s <em>navjote</em> ceremony, a child receives a <em>sudreh</em> and a <em>kushti</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this dualistic religion of Persian origin, whose god of wisdom is known as Ahura Mazda.
These are the primary texts of Zoroastrianism. They include the Yasnas and the Afrinagans.
A key concept in Zoroastrianism is Asha, which is usually translated as this English word. This concept is opposed with druj.
Zoroastrianism
Avestas [or Zend Avesta]
truth [accept order; accept clear equivalents; prompt on knowledge, learning, or similar answers; prompt on genius or righteousness] &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
Surah al-Takvir explicitly bans this practice, noting that its victim will bear witness on the Day of Judgment against the perpetrators. For 10 points:
Name this sexist practice that was common in the Arabian peninsula before the advent of Islam. This practice is still widespread in China.
Married Muslim women also have the right to demand this action, which in the Qur’an is called either intifada or talaq depending on which party in the marriage chooses to request it.
The Qur’an enumerates a number of property rights for women, perhaps inspired by the success of this older business woman that Muhammad married when he was 25 and she was 40.
female infanticide [accept reasonable equivalents like “killing female infants”; prompt on partial answer]
divorce
Khadija bint Khuwaylid &lt;HK&gt;
This figure laughed upon overhearing that she would bear a child at her old age, but lied when God confronted her about it. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, who derived the name of her son Isaac from that incident.
Sarah expelled this woman from her camp upon seeing how her son Ishmael mistreated Isaac. An angel showed this woman a well of water in the wilderness of Beersheba.
In Judaism, the Binding of Sarah’s son Isaac is often referred to by this Hebrew name.
Sarah [or Sarai]
Hagar
Akedat &lt;MK&gt;
This term is contrasted with <em>treif</em>, meaning “torn.” For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish dietary regulation, which does not allow for consumption of pork and, perhaps more importantly, camel meat.
Some kosher foods must be prepared according to the process of shechita, which is a kind of this process.
Kosher packaged foods are marked with these symbols, which include the Orthodox Union’s “O-U” and OK Kosher’s “O-K.”
kosher laws [or kashrut]
slaughtering [accept killing animals]
hechsher &lt;SPQR&gt; Tiebreaker
In Hinduism, this ceremony is followed by the period known as <em>grihastha</em>, or being a householder. For 10 points each:
Name this ritual that, in Hinduism, includes the Kanyadaan and Saptapadi rituals. Many traditional forms of this ritual are preceded by the giving of a dowry.
The Saptapadi ritual in a Hindu wedding involves circling one of these objects seven times. These objects are traditionally built to commemorate the killing of the demoness Holika.
This term, encompassing both the Saptapadi and Holika Dahan, refers to any Hindu ritual done in the presence of a sacred fire.
Hindu weddings [accept marriages]
bonfires [accept pyres; accept reasonable equivalents like flames]
yajna &lt;AF&gt;
This man was the first of Jesus’ twelve disciples to be martyred. For 10 points each:
Name this disciple known as the “Greater” in order to distinguish himself from two other Biblical men with the same name. According to the Acts of the Apostles, Herod had him executed by the sword.
James is the patron saint of this country. In this country, pilgrims often visit St. James’s supposed remains after travelling a namesake “way.”
James the Greater’s brother had this name and wrote the Book of Revelation while exiled on the island of Patmos. A man with this name wrote the Gospel following Matthew, Mark, and Luke.
James the Greater [or James, son of Zebedee; do not accept or prompt on “James the Just” (Jesus’s brother) or “James, the son of Alphaeus”]
Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]
John the Apostle [or Ioannes; or Yohanan; accept John the Evangelist or John of Patmos] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about ideas of love in the New Testament:
In First Timothy, Paul declares that the love of this substance is “a root of all kinds of evil.” According to Jesus, it’s easier for a camel to enter the eye of a needle than for someone with a lot of this to enter heaven.
According to Paul, this type of love is selfless and unconditional. It was the namesake of feasts common among early Christians.
John 3:16 describes how God “so loved the world” that he did this action. A description is fine.
money [accept obvious equivalents like wealth and riches]
agape [AH-gah-pay]
gave his only begotten son [accept any answer indicating that he gave or sacrificed his son] &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Japanese Buddhism.
This school of Buddhism is among the most popular in Japan. It emphasizes meditation and contemplation of paradoxical-seeming statements called ko ans.
A popular collection of koans is titled for a barrier without one of these things. Shinto shrines are often identified by a type of these things called torii.
Every year, Japanese Buddhists celebrate this three-day festival, in which they clean their ancestors’ graves. In English transliteration, it shares its name with a Tibetan religion with many similarities to Buddhism.
Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]
gates [accept The Gateless Barrier or The Gateless Gate]
Obon [accept Bönpo] &lt;JR&gt;
This belief is expressed in the opening of the <em>shahada</em> with the words <em>la ilaha illa Allah</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this belief known in Islam as tawhid [tou-HEED], a belief about divine unity that is also expressed in the Jewish Shema.
In addition to the shahada, this other pillar of Islam is practiced five times a day, in which a Muslim prays while facing the Kaaba in Mecca.
Sawm [SOUM], or fasting, occurs in three different forms in the Quran—abstaining from food, words, and this other thing which is given away through the pillar of zakat [za-KAH].
monotheism [accept descriptions about belief in one God]
salah
money [or wealth or similar answers indicating one’s possessions] &lt;McMaken&gt;
The world’s 2.2 billion Christians are separated into many different denominations. For 10 points each:
Name this mainline Protestant Christian denomination, founded upon the teachings of John Wesley, Charles Wesley, and George Whitefield.
This largest Christian denomination maintains doctrines such as the “true presence” of Christ in the Eucharist, as well as a belief in the primacy of the “Successor of Peter.”
Catholicism and Orthodox Christianity are separated by the Catholic inclusion of the filioque [fil-ee-OH-kway], meaning “and the Son,” in this prayer.
Methodism
Catholic Church
Nicene Creed &lt;Stecko&gt;
The deuterocanonical book of Tobit gives the only mention in the Bible of this archangel. For 10 points each:
Name this archangel who in that book travels with Tobias to help him marry a demon-filled woman and to heal his father’s blindness with a fish’s gallbladder after birds have pooped on them.
Two other books included in the Catholic deuterocanon but rejected by Protestants are titled after this group of Jewish rebels from the second century B.C.E. The second of those books recounts how Judas restored the temple, an event commemorated during Hanukkah.
Other portions of the deuterocanon include a passage in the book of Daniel about this type of animal, which is revered by the Babylonians but bursts open and dies after Daniel feeds it a cake made from pitch, fat, and hair.
Raphael
Maccabees [or Hasmoneans]
dragon &lt;McMaken&gt;
According to preterists, this event occurred in 70 C.E. with the sacking of Jerusalem. For 10 points each:
Name this event described by the Greek word parousia, in which the Messiah returns “like a thief in the night.”
Dispensationalists believe that after the rapture and a period of tribulation, Jesus will reign on Earth for this many years before the final judgment and the establishment of the New Heaven and Earth.
The length of the tribulation is usually interpreted to be seven years by the “Seventy Weeks Prophecy” in this book of the Bible, in which Gabriel speaks to the title prophet while in exile in Babylon.
the Second Coming of Jesus [or the Second Advent; prompt on the day of the Lord]
1,000 [or millenium]
Book of Daniel &lt;McMaken&gt;
In a Buddhist parable about this practice, an Abess says that there will be no quibbling about the soup. For 10 points each:
Name this practice of which monks can take a vow, which in Buddhism can accompany meditation if the practitioner chooses not to chant.
In this religion founded by a Persian prophet, dead bodies are left to vultures on “towers of silence” known as dakhmas.
In the namesake rule of this Catholic order, a vow of monastic silence is often considered an essential practice. This order is named for a sixth century saint “of Nursia.”
silence
Zoroastrianism [or Mazdayasna]
Benedictine &lt;McMaken&gt;
Answer the following questions about Hinduism, for 10 points each:
This holiday includes bonfires on its eve to celebrate the burning of a demoness. People also apply colored powders to each other during this festival.
One legend surrounding the celebration of Holi concerns this god who became the avatar Narasimha to protect Prahlada by slaying Hiranyakashipu [hee-rahn-yah-KAH-shee-poo] in a “half-man, half-lion” form.
In the Sri Vaishnava lists, another one of Vishnu’s avatars is this brother of Krishna, who was born fair. However, he is generally thought to be an avatar of Seshat and also taught Pandava Bhima how to fight with a mace.
Holi
Vishnu
Balarama &lt;Kumar&gt;
The innermost building of these complexes is called a <em>honden</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these places of worship, the main religious sites in the indigenous animistic religion of Japan.
The entrance into sacred territory associated with a shrine is frequently demarcated using one of these things. These gates are often painted over in a vermillion red paint.
The holiest site in shinto is this shrine. It is rebuilt every 20 years in a ritualistic renewal process, and it currently exists in its 62nd iteration. Supposedly, this site houses the Sacred Mirror.
Shinto shrines (or Shinto temples; accept jinga; prompt on only temple or shrine)
torii [“TOH-ree”]
Ise Shrine (or Ise Grand Shrine; or Ise Jingu) &lt;Gioia&gt;
The Chinese proverb “Three laughs at Tiger Brook” illustrates the harmony between Buddhism, Confucianism, and this religion. For 10 points each:
Name this religion that emphasizes the importance of wu wei, or action through inaction. It also uses yin and yang to illustrate the importance of balance.
This sage and founder of Taoism is credited with writing the Tao Te Ching, which is considered to be one of the religion’s two fundamental texts.
This philosopher is the namesake of the other fundamental text of Daoism, in which he contemplates whether he is a man who dreamed of being a butterfly or a butterfly who dreamed of being a man.
Taoism (or Daoism)
Laozi (or Lao-Tzu; or Lao-Tze)
Zhuangzi (or Zhuang Zhou or Chuang Tzu) &lt;Duffy&gt;
Members of this religion are taught to defeat the Five Thieves, which are lust, rage, greed, attachment, and conceit. For 10 points each:
Name this monotheistic religion started by Guru Nanak in present-day India. Baptised members of this religion carry the Five K’s.
Unlike the ten previous human gurus of Sikhism, the current one, the Adi Granth, has this unique characteristic. This characteristic is the reason that the Adi Granth is the eternal living guru of Sikhism.
The Five K’s require the adherent to carry the kirpan sword, kangha comb, and the kara, which is one of these items.
Sikhism (or Sikhi)
the Adi Granth is a book (accept reasonable equivalents; prompt on immortality until “eternal”)
bracelet &lt;Suh&gt;
Before going in front of a king, this woman says, “If I perish, I perish.” For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish queen of the Persian king Ahasuerus and the cousin of Mordecai. Her story is told in her eponymous book in the Bible.
This Jewish holiday celebrates the deliverance of Jews by Esther and Mordecai. On this day, there is a public reading of the Book of Esther as well as a exchange of gifts known as mishloach manot.
A triangular pastry known as this man’s “ears” or “pockets” is eaten during Purim to symbolize the defeat of this adversary of Esther, who unsuccessfully tried to massacre all Jews in Persia.
Esther (or Hadassah; accept Book of Esther)
Purim
Haman &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about Biblical people who were raised from the dead.
On at least two separate occasions in the Bible, the son of one of this type of people was revived, once by Elisha and once by Jesus. These women had lost their husbands and lived alone with their sons.
This man resurrected Dorcas, who may have been a widow. He also once converted 3,000 people with a sermon, and he was once chided for being of little faith.
Jesus raised the daughter of this ruler of a Jewish synagogue. On his way to revive her, a sick woman in the crowd touched Jesus’ cloak and was healed of her sickness, after which Jesus asked, “Who touched me?”
widows (prompt on mothers)
Peter (or Simon; accept Cephas)
Jairus [“JYE-rus”] &lt;Suh&gt;
After this man’s first wife died, he married Keturah and had six sons. For 10 points each:
Name this man who almost sacrificed his son Isaac. He is the common patriarch of three religions of his name.
This first son of Abraham and his mother were expelled after this man made fun of his younger half-brother Isaac. Muslims believe that this man was the ancestor of the prophet Muhammad.
According to Muslim traditions, this mother of Ishmael desperately ran between two hills in search of water until an angel miraculously produced a well for her.
Abraham (or Abram; or Ibrahim; accept Abrahamic religions)
Ishmael (or Ismā‘īl)
Hagar (or Hajar) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points, answer the following about jewelry that come up in religion.
This religion’s three jewels include correct view, correct knowledge, and correct conduct. This religion reveres 24 teachers known as tirthankaras, the last of which was Mahavira.
Yu Di, the highest deity in Daoism, is also known as an “Emperor” named after this precious mineral.
In Matthew 13, Jesus compares the Kingdom of Heaven to a merchant who finds one of these precious objects “of great price” and sells everything he had to buy that object. One of these objects titles a collection of canonical Mormon works including the Book of Moses and Book of Abraham.
Jainism
jade (accept Jade Emperor)
pearl (accept Pearl of Great Price) &lt;Suh&gt;
Answer the following about the Armor of God, for 10 points each:
This man described the Armor of God in his Epistle to the Ephesians, years after converting to Christianity on the road to Damascus.
Paul asks the believer to put on the “breastplate” of this concept. In Romans, he also wrote of becoming “slaves” of this concept after being freed from sin.
Paul equates the sword of the Spirit with this concept. The beginning of the Gospel of John states that this concept “was with God” and that it “was God.”
Paul of Tarsus (accept Saul)
righteousness (accept word forms; accept dikaiosýnē; do NOT accept or prompt on perceived synonyms, like “justice”)
word of God (accept logos) &lt;Suh&gt;
Let’s talk about the enemies of the Israelites in the Old Testament, for 10 points each:
Name these persistent enemies of Israel who worshiped Dagon. Goliath and Delilah were a part of these people, and these people killed Saul and Jonathan in battle at Mount Gilboa.
Israel achieved its greatest territorial extent under this king, the son and successor of David. This man was known for his wisdom and his reign included a visit from Queen Sheba.
During a battle against Israel and Judah, the king of this nation sacrificed his own son in a desperate attempt to save his country from destruction. Miraculously, it worked as Israel and Judah withdrew in disgust.
Philistines
Solomon
Moab (accept Moabites) &lt;Suh&gt;
The Zamzam Well and the Al-Haram Mosque are located in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this holiest city in Islam, the destination of the annual Hajj pilgrimage. Sura 9:28 of the Quran forbids foreigners from accessing the Grand Mosque in this city.
Unlike the Hajj, this minor form of pilgrimage can be done at any time.
The second holiest site of Islam is the Prophet’s Mosque located in this city, where Muhammad is said to be buried.
Mecca
umrah
Medina &lt;Suh&gt;
Before miraculously producing this substance, a man told his mother that his “hour has not yet come.” For 10 points each:
Name this grape-based drink that is used to represent the blood of Christ during the Holy Communion.
Jesus’ first recorded miracle happened at one of these events in Cana, where he turned water into wine.
Because this young preacher had a lot of health issues, Paul advised him to “no longer drink only water, but use a little wine.” This first Bishop of Ephesus was stoned to death while trying to stop a procession honoring Diana.
wine
wedding (or marriage)
Timothy &lt;Suh&gt;
This book’s title most literally means “my messenger.” For 10 points each:
Name this last book of the twelve Prophets in the Hebrew Bible. It is also the last book of the Old Testament.
In Malachi, God asks people to test him by bringing a full one of this type of offering to see if he would not bless them abundantly in response. This practice involves giving 10% of one’s earnings.
Malachi was a prophet of these people, who were rescued out of slavery in Egypt by Moses.
Book of Malachi [“MAH-lah-kye”]
tithe (accept word forms)
Israelites (or Hebrews; accept Israel; accept Jews) &lt;Suh&gt;
This branch of Islam especially reveres the Battle of Karbala, in which Hussain and Abbas perished. For 10 points each:
Name this second-largest branch of Islam that believes that Muhammad appointed his son-in-law Ali as his rightful successor. This denomination is the dominant branch of Islam in Iran, Iraq, and Bahrain.
This largest branch of Shia Islam believes in the namesake number of divinely guided leaders, or imams, the last of whom is considered to be the Mahdi.
Twelvers believe in the “minor” and “major” instances of this event, during which the Mahdi disappeared after being born.
Shi’a Islam (or Shi’ite Islam; or Shi’ism)
Twelver (or Imamiyyah)
occultation (or Ghaybah; accept Minor Occultation or Major Occultation) &lt;Suh&gt;
A practitioner of this school of Buddhism promulgated the idea of <em>shikantaza</em>, meaning “silent illumination.” For 10 points each:
Name this school of Mahayana Buddhism. Some members of this school of Buddhism have pondered questions such as “What is the sound of one hand clapping?”
After spending five years in China in order to find a more authentic form of Buddhism, this Zen master broke from the Tendai school in the mid-13th century to found the Soto school.
Dogen often quoted this work in his writings. This text is named a flower that symbolizes purity, and this text offers the example of a father successfully rescuing his children from a fire by promising them toy carts.
Zen Buddhism
Dogen
Lotus Sutra &lt;Suh&gt;
David played the harp whenever Saul experienced this condition. For 10 points each:
Identify this condition during which a supernatural being takes control of a human body. This condition can be ended with an exorcism.
After Jesus exorcised a man in the Gospel of Matthew, the group of demons collectively known as Legion went into a herd of these animals, who then fell off a cliff and drowned.
During a drum-beating ceremony known as bembé in this religion, certain adherents experience possession, which is also known in this religion as “mounting the horse.”
spirit possession (or demonic possession; accept word forms like being possessed)
pigs
Santería (or Regla de Ocha; or La Regla de Ifá; or Lucumí) &lt;Suh&gt;
This religion was founded in Iran in the mid-1800s. For 10 points each:
Name this religion which teaches that there is one God, of which figures like the Buddha, Jesus Christ, and Muhammad are all manifestations.
Bahá’i was adapted from this other Persian religion, founded in 1844. This religion’s founder claimed to be the spokesman for the Twelfth Imam, and later claimed to be the Imam himself.
The governing institution of Bahá’i is the “Universal House of” this concept. According to Shoghi Effendi, this concept should be considered “the ruling principle in human society.”
Bahá’i
Bábism [accept Bábí Movement, accept Bayání Faith]
justice [accept Universal House of Justice] &lt;CO&gt;
For 10 points each, name these branches of Buddhism.
This branch of Buddhism is most prevalent in Japan. Colloquially, its name refers to extreme relaxation and/or focus.
Zen is contained within this larger branch of Buddhism, which has a name meaning “Great Vehicle.” It is often contrasted with Theravada Buddhism.
This branch of Buddhism, founded in the 14th century, merges Mahayana and tantric Buddhism. The Ganden Tripa is an important figure in this branch.
Zen Buddhism [accept Chan Buddhism or Seon Buddhism or Thien Buddhism or Dhyana Buddhism]
Mahayana Buddhism
Yellow Hat Buddhism [accept Gelug Buddhism; prompt on Ganden-Pa since it was partially mentioned in the question; prompt on Tibetan Buddhism] &lt;AJ&gt;
The continental variety of these legendary creatures is most commonly called the “fire-breathing” type. For 10 points each:
Identify these legendary creatures which are usually depicted as reptilian, flying monsters, related to serpents. A red one of these creatures appears on the Welsh flag, and in fiction, examples include Smaug.
In one legend, this figure in Christianity saves a princess from being sacrificed to a dragon by taming and killing it. This figure replaced Edward the Confessor as the main patron saint of England.
In England, the feast of Saint George is given this highest feast rank by Roman Catholics, shared by the Epiphany and Pentecost, among others.
European dragons
Saint George
solemnity [or solemnities] &lt;CL&gt;
A person who has memorized this text in its entirety is known as a hafiz. For 10 points each:
Name this central holy text of Islam.
The Qur’an is split into 114 of these chapters, which are then further divided into verses. Famous examples of these chapters include “The Cow” and “The Cave.”
The fourth surah in the Qur’an concerns this group of people. That surah titled for this group of people focuses on the unity of humanity, as well as the punishments for hypocrites.
Qur’an [accept Koran; accept al-Qur’an]
surahs [accept suras; accept suwar]
women [accept woman; begrudgingly accept females; do not accept or prompt on “girls”] &lt;CL&gt;
Though not a Biblical figure, this person is sometimes referred to as The Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah. For 10 points each:
Name this religious figure who is believed to be the reincarnation of Jah. This religious figure was also a twentieth century political leader, but he lost power after a famine in 1973.
Haile Selassie is revered in this religion popular in Jamaica. Many reggae singers are members of this religion.
Rastas use many alternative phrases including this term for the word “we” or “you and me.” It is used to indicate the oneness of all beings with each other and with God.
Haile Selassie I [accept Tafari Makonnen Woldemikael]
Rastafarianism [accept Rastafari]
I and I &lt;CO&gt;
For 10 points each, name these branches of Buddhism.
This branch of Buddhism is most prevalent in Japan. Colloquially, its name refers to extreme relaxation and/or focus.
Zen is contained within this larger branch of Buddhism, which has a name meaning “Great Vehicle.” It is often contrasted with Theravada Buddhism.
This branch of Buddhism, founded in the 14th century, merges Mahayana and tantric Buddhism. The Ganden Tripa is an important figure in this branch.
Zen Buddhism [accept Chan Buddhism or Seon Buddhism or Thien Buddhism or Dhyana Buddhism]
Mahayana Buddhism
Yellow Hat Buddhism [accept Gelug Buddhism; prompt on Ganden-Pa since it was partially mentioned in the question; prompt on Tibetan Buddhism] &lt;AJ&gt;
This religion was founded in Iran in the mid-1800s. For 10 points each:
Name this religion which teaches that there is one God, of which figures like the Buddha, Jesus Christ, and Muhammad are all manifestations.
Bahá’i was adapted from this other Persian religion, founded in 1844. This religion’s founder claimed to be the spokesman for the Twelfth Imam, and later claimed to be the Imam himself.
The governing institution of Bahá’i is the “Universal House of” this concept. According to Shoghi Effendi, this concept should be considered “the ruling principle in human society.”
Bahá’i
Bábism [accept Bábí Movement, accept Bayání Faith]
justice [accept Universal House of Justice] &lt;CO&gt;
Alternatives to using these objects include writing a certain name on the soles of one’s shoes and stomping. For 10 points each:
Identify these noise-makers used to drown out the name “Haman” on a certain holiday, except in Spain and Portugal where their use is considered impolite. The original or Yiddish word for these objects is acceptable.
Graggers are used on this spring holiday, which celebrates the failure of Haman’s plans due to the work of Mordecai and Esther. Traditions on this holiday include wearing costumes and getting extremely drunk.
Purim is a holiday in this Abrahamic religion. Hasidism is a sect within this religion, and comments reflecting prejudice against adherents to this religion are referred to as anti-Semitic.
graggers [accept ra’ashan; prompt on ratchets]
Purim [accept Seudat Purim; prompt on Seudat mitzvah]
Judaism [accept Jews or Jewish] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about holidays in Hinduism.
The spring festival of Holi celebrates the defeat of evil and is sometimes known as the “festival of [these things].” As such, on Holi, people often throw special powder at each other.
For some Hindus, Ugadi serves as this type of celebration. One type of this celebration in a different Asian tradition features mandarin oranges and taro cakes, and in the United States, it is marked by a ball drop.
Observance periods for Hindu festivals are usually marked by tithis, these specific units of time. These units of time correspond to an increase in the longitudinal angle between the Moon and the Sun by twelve degrees.
colors
new year celebration [accept equivalents; begrudgingly accept lunar new year or lunisolar new year]
lunar day [prompt on day] &lt;CL&gt;
A person who has memorized this text in its entirety is known as a hafiz. For 10 points each:
Name this central holy text of Islam.
The Qur’an is split into 114 of these chapters, which are then further divided into verses. Famous examples of these chapters include “The Cow” and “The Cave.”
The fourth surah in the Qur’an concerns this group of people. That surah titled for this group of people focuses on the unity of humanity, as well as the punishments for hypocrites.
Qur’an [accept Koran; accept al-Qur’an]
surahs [accept suras; accept suwar]
women [accept woman; begrudgingly accept females; do not accept or prompt on “girls”] &lt;CL&gt;
Though not a Biblical figure, this person is sometimes referred to as The Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah. For 10 points each:
Name this religious figure who is believed to be the reincarnation of Jah. This religious figure was also a twentieth century political leader, but he lost power after a famine in 1973.
Haile Selassie is revered in this religion popular in Jamaica. Many reggae singers are members of this religion.
Rastas use many alternative phrases including this term for the word “we” or “you and me.” It is used to indicate the oneness of all beings with each other and with God.
Haile Selassie I [accept Tafari Makonnen Woldemikael]
Rastafarianism [accept Rastafari]
I and I &lt;CO&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about Wiccan holidays.
Today, this holiday is celebrated in Wicca in honor of the rebirth of the Horned God. This winter solstice holiday names a special “log” burned in many European traditions on Christmas.
This natural event is celebrated in Wicca with the holiday Ostara. Early ancient Egyptians celebrated this event with Sham el-Nessim, and this event marks a national holiday in Japan each March, when people visit family graves.
Wicca also incorporates this holiday, a part of the Gaelic culture, during which the Aos Sí can more easily interact with humans. The Wiccan version of this holiday balances Beltane on the Wheel of the Year.
Yuletide [accept Yule log]
spring equinox [accept vernal equinox; prompt on partial; prompt on Northward equinox; prompt on the beginning of spring and equivalents]
Samhain [prompt on Halloween or All Hallows’ Eve or Allhallowtide] &lt;CL&gt;
Sometimes, two religious origins are better than one. For 10 points each, name some syncretic religions.
A syncretic version of this West African religion is prevalent in New Orleans. Contrary to popular belief, this religion has little to do with its namesake dolls; stereotypes forged that association in the 20th century.
This religion syncretizes Roman Catholicism with Yoruba culture. It was developed in Cuba, and its tradition of ritual slaughter was challenged in the case Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah in 1993.
This modern religion combines elements of the Abrahamic religions and Zoroastrianism. Its adherents believe that God entrusted the universe to a Heptad of Holy Beings, headed by Melek Taus, or the Peacock Angel.
Voodoo [accept Vodun; accept Vodon; accept Voudou; accept Vodoun; accept Vodou]
Santería [accept Regla de Ochá; accept La Regla de Ifá; accept Lucumí]
Yazidism [accept Yazidis or Yezedis; prompt on Yazdânism] &lt;CL&gt;
In 1931, Joseph Franklin Rutherford gave the name “Jehovah’s Witnesses” to a branch of the Bible Student Movement. For 10 points each:
Jehovah’s Witnesses consider Jesus to be the intercessor between humanity and God, breaking from this traditional Christian concept that posits God is three in one.
Along with its sister magazine, Awake!, Jehovah’s Witnesses distribute this magazine in their door-to-door ministry, published by its namesake society.
The Watchtower claimed that this event happened invisibly in October of 1914, coinciding with the beginning of the end times. This belief in this event is affirmed in the Nicene Creed.
the Trinity [accept Trinitarianism]
The Watchtower Announcing Jehovah’s Kingdom
The Second Coming of Jesus Christ [accept Second Advent and Parousia, prompt on “Armageddon” and “Rapture”]
Answer the following about the Judges of Israel. For 10 points each:
This judge was the last mentioned in the Book of Judges in the Hebrew Bible, and lost his miraculous strength when his lover Delilah cut his hair, before God granted it to him once more.
This judge was the first to lead Israel under a period of Midianite rule, and won a shocking victory after his 300 men rushed the enemy camp blowing trumpets to simulate a larger force.
The period of judges ended when Saul, who hailed from this tribe of Israel, ruled over the Kingdom of Israel and Judah. The judge Ehud came from this tribe, as did the apostle Paul.
Samson
Gideon
Tribe of Benjamin
Many of these texts are part of the Perfection of Wisdom. For 10 points each:
Name these texts. In one named Heart, Avalokiteshvara relays to Sariputra his discovery of the emptiness of the five Skandhas.
The Heart Sutra is a famous text from this major religion which espouses the Four Noble Truths, advocating the Eightfold Path as a method to reach nirvana.
This branch of Buddhism holds that becoming a bodhisattva is better than reaching nirvana. It is most prominent in East Asia, where its sects include Chan, Seon, and Zen.
sutras [accept Heart Sutra]
Buddhism
Mahayana
This man squanders his inheritance but is nevertheless welcomed back by his father, who throws a celebration in his honor. For 10 points each:
Name this man who appears in a namesake story in the Gospel of Luke.
In another biblical story, Jesus compares this object to the Kingdom of God, illustrating that the Kingdom of God grows from humble beginnings to eventually massive size.
Both the Prodigal Son and mustard seed are examples of this type of storytelling device. Jesus often used this device to compare abstract concepts of faith to relatable situations.
the Prodigal Son
mustard seed
parables
This sect is divided into the Twelvers, the Ismailis, and the Zaidis, for 10 points each:
This Islamic sect believes that Muhammad proclaimed his son-in-law Ali his successor by God’s command at Ghadir Khumm. Its Arabic name translates to “followers of Ali.”
In Shi’a, infallibles of the house of Muhammad are given this title. For other Muslims, this term generally refers to any leader of worship services.
This title, first given to Hasan Ali Shah, refers to the imam of Nizari Ismailis. Its current holder is Prince Shah Karim Al Husseini.
Shi’ism [accept Shi’a or Shi’ite Islam]
Imam
Agha Khan
Answer the following about the resurrection of Jesus Christ. For 10 points each:
In Matthew, Mark, and John, this woman and suspected prostitute is the first witness to the resurrection, and she is often composited as the same woman who anointed Jesus’ feet with perfume.
One of the earliest appearances of Jesus after the resurrection was when he met two of his disciples walking on the road to this town, before revealing himself at a subsequent supper.
When Jesus revealed himself in the upper room while breaking bread, this doubting apostle was not present and did not believe Jesus was alive until he could see and touch Jesus’ wounds.
Mary Magdalene [prompt on “Mary”; do not accept Mary of Bethany; do not accept the Virgin Mary, Mary of Nazareth, and any answer connected to Mary the mother of Christ]
Emmaus
St. Thomas [accept Doubting Thomas, Thomas the Apostle, or Didymus]
Successful businesspeople often donate these objects to Inari, the <em>kami</em> of business and industry. For 10 points each:
These Japanese objects denote the boundary between the mundane and the sacred. Their design usually features a rectangular beam on top of two posts, all painted bright red.
While present on certain mountains, Torii gates are most commonly found in these sacred Shinto structures, which house kami.
This Shinto shrine, which commemorates those who died in service of the Empire of Japan, is controversial for memorializing 1,068 war criminals.
Torii gates [accept either underlined portion]
shrines [accept jinja; or temples; or shinsha; or gongen; or gongu; or jingu; or mori; or myojin; or myosha; or taisha; or ubusuna; or yashiro]
Yasakuni Shrine
In the Great Race, this animal finished fifth because he stopped to help out some villagers. For 10 points each:
Name this only imaginary creature in the Chinese zodiac. A holiday on the fifth day of the fifth lunar month celebrates Qu Yuan by racing boats that look like one of these creatures.
During another Chinese holiday known as the Qingming Festival, people burn joss paper, eat green dumplings known as qingtuan, and sweep these locations.
A less traditional Chinese holiday that celebrates these specific people occurs on November 11th and is the world’s largest online shopping day. Its name translates to “bare sticks”.
dragons [do not accept “snake” or “serpent”]
tombs of ancestors [accept graves or obvious equivalents]
single people [accept Singles’ Day; accept Guanggun jie]
The angel Jibril relayed the word of God to the Last Prophet in 609 CE. For 10 points each:
Name this holy text of Islam, the revelation given to the prophet Muhammad. The text is divided into suras.
The Throne Verse is found in this second and longest surah of the Qur’an. With the exception of verse 281, this sura was revealed to Muhammad while he was in Medina.
Mufassirin are the authors of these interpretations of the Qur’an, which elucidate the meaning of God’s will. Muhammad al-Tabari established the Sunni tradition of these texts.
al-Qur’an
Sūrat al-Baqarah [accept Cow Sura]
tafsir
Moses told the Israelites to keep this day holy in the fourth of the Ten Commandments. For 10 points each:
This Jewish day of rest begins at sundown on Friday and lasts a whole day. Jews refrain from working during this day, as God did after the sixth day.
This holiday is celebrated with the consumption of unleavened bread. It commemorates the Tenth Plague, where the Angel of Death skipped households with blood-painted doorposts.
The book of Esther is read during this holiday that starts on the 14th of Adar. It celebrates the victory of the Jews over Haman, a Persian official.
Sabbath [accept Shabbat]
Passover [accept Pesach]
Purim
This branch performs the ten Ancillaries of the Faith. For 10 points each:
Name this religious branch, named for its belief in a certain number of religious figures. It’s larger than the Ismaili and Zaidi branches.
The Twelvers believe in twelve infallible ones of these figures. In Sunni Islam, this term more generally refers to the leaders of mosques or Islamic communities.
The first of the Twelve Imams was this man. Shia Islam is distinguished from Sunni Islam by its belief in this man as the designated successor of Muhammad.
Twelvers (accept Imamiyyah; do not accept or prompt on just “Shia” or “Islam”)
imams
Ali ibn Abi Talib &lt;Kuang&gt;
This man sold his birthright for some “red pottage,” or porridge. For 10 points each:
Name this Biblical figure. This man’s brother used goat skins to emulate this figure’s hairy hands, and he was patriarch of the Edomites, an ever-present enemy of the Israelites.
Esau was the brother of this man, who was born grabbing the heel of Esau. This man saw a vision of a namesake ladder.
This youngest son of Jacob shared the same mother with Joseph. In the Book of the Judges, the tribe named after this man suffered a devastating civil war against the rest of Israel.
Esau
Jacob (accept Israel)
Benjamin &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, name some gardens from Abrahamic religions:
This location contained the Tree of Life and Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. God expelled Adam and Eve from this location.
The night before his crucifixion, Jesus prayed in this location, doing so in such “agony” that his sweat turned into drops of blood. Judas gave the kiss that identified Jesus in this place.
During his 12-day stay in this location, Baha’u’llah declared to his followers that he was the figure whom “God will make manifest” and founded the Baha'i religion.
Garden of Eden
Garden of Gethsemane
Garden of Ridvan &lt;Suh&gt;
Many of us know about the first four gospels, so instead, answer these three questions about the other 23 books of the New Testament, for 10 points each:
This man wrote the majority of the New Testament after meeting Jesus in a conversion experience on the road to Damascus. Karl Barth wrote a commentary titled after this man’s Epistle to the Romans.
This book is the only one in the New Testament with no general agreement as to its authorship. Its eleventh chapter famously speaks about faith in God.
In the Epistle of Jude, a strange verse discusses how the Devil and the archangel Michael feuded over the body of this man. This man was buried on Mount Nebo, but no one can locate his tomb.
Paul (or Saul of Tarsus)
Epistle to the Hebrews
Moses &lt;Suh&gt;
William Rowe’s “friendly” form of this position concedes that its opponents might still be justified in their beliefs, even if wrong. For 10 points each:
Describe this position held by the “Four Horsemen” of it, which includes Sam Harris and Daniel Dennett.
This magazine cause a national controversy in 1966 when its cover asked, “Is God Dead?” in huge red letters. Theologist Karl Barth was on its cover in 1962, and the Pope was its 2013 Person of the Year.
This man’s existentialist theology was a precursor to the “Death of God” movement. This German published the popular books Dynamics of Faith and The Courage to Be.
atheism (accept word forms; do not accept or prompt on “agnosticism”)
Time
Paul Tillich &lt;Jin&gt;
There are ten recognized school of <em>qira’at</em>, or performing this action. For 10 points each:
Name this action, which is done by a qari according to the rules of tajwid. A hafiz can notably perform this act without a certain tool.
This Christian denomination maintains the upkeep of Reading Rooms for quiet study. It was founded by Mary Baker Eddy, and its Mother Church is in Boston.
Upon coming of age, a Jewish adherent attends one of these ceremonies and is called on to read from the Torah. You can give either the boy or girl equivalent.
reciting the Quran (or reading the Quran; accept any obvious equivalents; a hafiz can recite the Quran from memory)
Christian Science (or Church of Christ, Scientist)
bar mitzvah or bat mitzvah &lt;Kuang&gt;
On this holiday, noisemakers called Groggers are used to drown out the name of a man who plotted to kill all Jews. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish holiday often compared to Halloween. During it, Jews don costumes and retell the story of the Book of Esther.
During Purim, the story of Esther, Haman, and Mordecai is read from a document known by this term. This term is just Hebrew for “the Scroll.”
On Purim, Jews are instructed to perform this many mitzvot, or commandments. This is also the number of horsemen who are said to announce the apocalypse.
Purim
The Megillah
four &lt;Cohen&gt;
This event began with the posting of the 95 Theses on a church door. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which multiple denominations of Christianity began breaking off. Martin Luther began this event, the first major breaking off from the Catholic Church since the Great Schism.
This convention was called as part of the Counter-Reformation by the Catholic Church. It solidified church teachings on prayer to saints and produced a banned books list.
Luther claimed that verse 17 of this book caused him to start thinking about changing the church. That verse of this book says the “just shall live by faith.”
Protestant Reformation
Council of Trent
Romans 1 &lt;Horton&gt;
Jesus relates this parable after a lawyer tests him by asking, “Who is my neighbor?” For 10 points each:
Name this parable, in which a foreigner rescues a man who was assaulted on the road while a priest and a Levite ignore him.
The parable occurs on the road from Jerusalem to this city. Another city with the same name was the residence of the prostitute Rahab.
The Good Samaritan binds the victim and treats him with these two substances. Name either.
parable of the Good Samaritan
Jericho
oil and wine &lt;Suh&gt;
In one of these texts, Huineng totally schools a rival by noting that because Buddha-nature is always perfect, it cannot be compared to a mirror which may get dusty. For 10 points each:
Name these texts. A “Platform” one is central to Zen Buddhism, and a “Kama” one is famous for its treatment of sexual topics.
An influential Mahayana sutra is named for one of these plants. Statues of the Buddha often depict him in the yoga position named for this object in which the practitioner sits with their feet resting on the opposite thigh.
A famous illustration of the doctrine of expedient means in the Lotus Sutra describes how a man saves his children from a burning house by luring them out with the promise of playing with these objects.
sutras (accept Platform Sutra; accept Kama Sutra)
lotus flower (accept Lotus Sutra; accept lotus position)
toy carts (or yana; accept vehicles; accept goat-carts; accept deer-carts; accept ox-carts; prompt on toys) &lt;Chu&gt;
The liturgical language of this religion is called Lucumí. For 10 points:
Name this religion that draws heavily from Yoruba tradition. A 1993 Supreme Court case upheld this church’s right to conduct animal sacrifice ceremonies.
The court case against Santería originated in this state. A 145 million dollar building in this state was built to deliver a training course known as the Super Power Rundown to practitioners of Scientology.
Santería is this type of religion, which means that it combines beliefs and rituals from two pre existing traditions. Other religions of this type include Voudou.
Santería (or Regla de Ocha; or La Regla de Ifá)
Florida
syncretic (accept word forms like syncretism) &lt;Chu&gt;
In this book, a woman who is clothed with the sun gives birth to a son and then hides in a place in the desert for 1,260 days. For 10 points each:
Name this book attributed to John of Patmos. It contains a description of the Whore of Babylon, who represents the “mother of prostitutes and of earth's abominations.”
Most manuscripts of Revelation consider this three-digit number to be the Number of the Beast.
In Revelation 2, Jesus asks the church in this city in Central Asia to repent of having abandoned its “first love.” Another work addressed to the church in this city writes that people are saved “by grace through faith.”
Book of Revelation (accept Apocalypse of John; do not accept or prompt on “Revelations”)
666
Ephesus (accept Epistle to the Ephesians and other word forms) &lt;Suh&gt;
Celebrate the Church of Quizbowl by identifying some things in actual churches, for 10 points each:
This is hand gesture done after being blessed or immediately after receiving the Eucharist. It corresponds to “the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.”
This item is used to store consecrated hosts. The altar lamp is lit when consecrated hosts are present in it. The original one of them was used to house the Ark of the Covenant.
This item is worn by Catholic officials. There are three types depending on the service: the auriphrygiata, pretiosa, or simplex.
sign of the cross (writer’s note: accept the physical motion I guess)
tabernacle (or The Tabernacle)
mitre (accept miter, prompt on hat) &lt;Horton&gt;
Arguably the two most important holidays in Judaism are the High Holidays, also known as the Days of Awe. For ten points each:
Those two holidays are Yom Kippur and this other Jewish holiday. This holiday is traditionally celebrated by dipping apples in honey and commemorates the start of a new year.
On Rosh Hashanah, it’s also customary to use the Shofar, one of these items. The Shofar was used to signal the coming of other holidays in the Torah.
The High Holidays both occur during this first month of the Jewish calendar. According to some Talmudic opinions, Adam and Eve were created during this month.
Rosh Hashanah (accept Yom Teruah)
a ram’s horn
Tishrei (or Ethanim) &lt;Cohen&gt;
The nǚsì are Chinese mosques intended only for these people. For 10 points each:
Describe this group of people. In many Muslim societies, people of this sort are required to wear modest clothing such as the niqab or hijab.
This group of women are termed the “Mothers of the Believers,” and the first of them was the wealthy merchant Khadijah, who then had the daughter Fatimah.
This payment is made in Islam by the groom or his family to the bride upon marriage. It’s similar to, but different from a dowry.
women (accept obvious synonyms like females)
wives of Muhammed (accept obvious equivalents)
mahr &lt;Kuang&gt;
The Gathas and Vendidad are among the texts of this religion. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle Eastern religion that reveres the Avesta and believes in the struggle between Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu. It was propagated by its namesake prophet, and was one of the first dualistic religions in the world.
Frashokereti is the Zoroastrian term for this event. The Norse call it Ragnarok, and Christians believe it will be signalled by the return of Jesus.
People in Zoroastrianism are required to cross this bridge upon their death. If you’ve been naughty, then a massive demon will appear and drag you off this bridge into the House of Lies.
Zoroastrianism (accept word forms)
the apocalypse (accept any reasonable equivalent like the end times, the Rapture, the end of the world, etc.)
Chinvat Bridge (or Bridge of the Requiter) &lt;Chu&gt;
This figure went on a famous Night Journey to Jerusalem with the archangel Gabriel. For 10 points each:
Name this Prophet of Islam whom one is not supposed to draw.
This woman was the mother of the loser at the Battle of Karbala, Husayn ibn Ali, by her husband, Ali. She was also the namesake of a much later caliphate that was absorbed by Saladin in 1171.
The Battle of Karbala was part of the second of the conflicts described by this Arabic word. The first of these conflicts was a battle for control of the Islamic world that ended in the overthrow of the Rashidun Caliphate and establishment of the Umayyad Caliphate.
Muhammad
Fatimah bint Muhammad
Fitnas &lt;LT&gt;
The founder of this sect is sometimes referred to as the “Man from Onion Valley”. For 10 points each:
Name this sect of Buddhism that is often called the “Way of Virtue” or the Yellow Hat School. It was founded by Je Tsongkhapa in the 14th and 15th century, and is the newest school in its region.
The Gelug School is the most recent development in this region’s Buddhist practice. This region was annexed under the Seventeen Points Agreement by a neighboring power, and it contains Potala Palace.
The current holder of this office is the exiled Tenzin Gyatso. This official is the highest ranking person in the Gelug School, and served as Tibet’s head of state until China’s conquest of the region.
Gelug School [prompt on Tibetan Buddhism, but do not reveal if this is not mentioned]
Tibet
Dalai Lama &lt;LT&gt;
Name some food items that are traditionally eaten for certain Jewish holidays. For 10 points each:
This type of food receives the HaMotzi blessing after being covered with a dedicated cloth on Shabbat. This food is often salted in order to fulfill the tradition of consuming salt every meal.
On Rosh Hashanah, this food is consumed along with apples in order to assure a sweet new year. This food is also paired with milk in a biblical description of Israel.
During Passover, Jews traditionally eat Hillel’s sandwich, which consists of matzah, bitter herbs, and this apple-walnut paste.
bread [accept challah]
honey
charoset &lt;GA&gt;
Joseph was sold into slavery by his brothers and ended up becoming an important advisor in this place. For 10 points each:
Name this country out of which Moses led the Israelites. It was historically ruled by Pharaohs.
Although Moses was meant to lead the Israelites to this promised land, he died right before they entered it. This term describes a large part of the Ancient Near East.
This portable home of God features prominently in the Book of Exodus and throughout the conquest of Canaan. Yahweh revealed specific dimensions by which to build this tent-like structure to Moses on Mount Sinai.
Egypt
Canaan [prompt on Levant]
Tabernacle &lt;LT&gt;
The terms “bar” and “bat mitzvah” translate as “children of the commandments” in Hebrew. Answer some questions about how a person becomes one, for 10 points each:
In order to become a bat or bar mitzvah, Jews must first reach this many years of age, although that rule is lowered by a year for girls in the United States.
During the ceremony involved in becoming a bar or bat mitzvah, which takes place on Shabbat, a person with this role is responsible for leading the blessings. More generally, people with this title lead musical portions of services in both Christianity and Judaism.
After reading the week’s Torah portion, the bat or bar mitzvah accordingly reads one of these passages from the the books of Nevi’im. These passages are read in a chant using cantillation of medieval origin.
thirteen
cantor [do not accept or prompt on descriptions]
haftarah [or haftarot] &lt;GA&gt;
This religion promotes the Ital diet and its practitioners venerate Haile Selassie as a god. For 10 points each:
Name this monotheistic religion that was founded in Jamaica in the 1930s. Adherents of this religion often use cannabis ritualistically.
Rastafarians also honor this black Jamaican political leader and activist as a prophet. He founded the Black Star Line to help facilitate the return of Africans to Africa.
Name any of the three sacred texts of Rastafarianism. The authors of these texts include Leonard Howell, Fitz Balintine Pettersburg, and Robert Athlyi Rogers.
Rastafarianism
Marcus Mosiah Garvey, Jr.
Holy Piby or The Promise Key or the Royal Parchment Scroll of Black Supremacy [accept any underlined portion] &lt;LT&gt;
This belief was formally condemned at the Council of Nicea in 325. For 10 points each:
Name this early Christian heretical tradition that held that Christ is distinct and subordinate to the Father. It was widely practiced by various peoples such as the Vandals
Arius, the founder of Arianism, was born in this continent’s city of Alexandria. St. Augustine of Hippo was also a prominent early Christian figure from this continent.
Africa was also the site of the discovery of these early Christian texts in 1945. These Coptic texts are often called the “Gnostic Gospels” because they contain many non-canon Christian gospels, most famously the Gospel of Thomas.
Arianism
Africa
Nag Hammadi Library [accept Chenoboskion Manuscripts] &lt;LT&gt;
This saint worked at the monasteries of St. Peter and St. Paul, and was called the “Father of” his home nation’s history. For 10 points each:
Name this medieval saint and monk who wrote the Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
In addition to his Old Testament commentaries, Bede wrote commentaries on this general portion of the Bible. This second.half of the Bible includes the canonical Gospels and the Book of Revelation.
Bede was given this title, which honors important saints who are thought to have made significant contributions to theology or doctrine. Pope Francis gave St. Gregory of Narek this title in 2015, and Thomas Aquinas is one of these people.
Venerable Bede [accept Saint Bede or Bede the Venerable]
New Testament
Doctor of the Church &lt;RY/LT&gt;
This country contains many ancient Sumerian cities such as Ur. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle Eastern country that encompases much of ancient Mesopotamia. Its capital is Baghdad.
This ethno-religious group in northern Mesopotamia follows a syncretic religion described by the sacred texts Book of Revelation and Black Book. They hold the Sinjar mountains sacred, and were abducted en masse by ISIS, often to serve as sex slaves.
This alleged primary figure of worship in Yazidi religious practice is said to be the greatest of seven Holy entities to whom God has given authority over the world. Yazidi worship of this figure has caused many Muslims to accuse Yazidis of devil worship.
Iraq
Yazidi [accept Yezidi]
Melek Taus [accept Malik Tous; Peacock Angel; prompt on Angel] &lt;LT&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things related to religions with a heavy emphasis on the prophets that first founded them:
Joseph Smith founded this American religion after being told by the angel Moroni of a series of golden plates.
This Persian religion founded by its namesake prophet believes in a universal battle between Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu. Its themes of good and evil inspired many prominent later religions like Christianity.
This man claimed he was the Mahdi before founding a religion that would later inspire Baha’ullah to found Bahai. His real name was Ali Muhammad Shirazi.
Mormon Church (or Mormonism; or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints or LDS Church)
Zoroastrianism (accept Zoroaster; accept Zarathustra)
the Bab (accept Babism; prompt on Ali Muhammad Shirazi)
This figure insists on feeding her visitor a “fattened calf” and some bread before he leaves. For 10 points each:
Name this figure who raises a ghost at the insistence of a figure unable to hear God “by Urim, by prophets, or by dreams.” In Jewish tradition, this figure is the mother of Abner.
This king of Israel consults the Witch of Endor to see the ghost of the prophet Samuel, who berates this man and tells him he’ll die in battle with the Philistines. In 1 Samuel, this figure then commits suicide the next day.
Saul is then succeeded by this man as king. As a boy, this man slew the mighty Goliath.
Witch of Endor (accept Medium of Endor or basically anything mentioning Endor and a prophetic person)
Saul
David
The Book of Acts calls the place of this man’s death <em>Akeldama</em>, which is “field of blood” in Aramaic. For 10 points each:
Name this figure whose most famous action occurred after kissing someone in the Garden of Gethsemane. He later hung himself in shame.
Judas Iscariot’s betrayal had been predicted by Jesus during this “final” dinner with the Apostles. During this event, Judas asked, “It isn’t me, is it, Rabbi?” to which Jesus responded “You said it.”
According to the Book of Acts, the eleven remaining apostles elected this man to replace Judas after his death.
Judas Iscariot
Last Supper
St. Matthias
This religion celebrates April 21st as Grounation Day. For 10 points each:
Name this religion. Its followers adhere to a natural diet meant to enhance their “livity” called I-tal, and they believe that Jesus Christ was reincarnated as Haile Selassie I.
Rastafarianism is particularly popular on this Caribbean island nation. Its neighborhood of Trench Town was home to Rastafari elder Mortimer Planno, who mentored a young Bob Marley.
Some Rastafarians belong to these smaller sects whose name derives from John 14:2. Examples of these groups include the Niyabinghi, Bobo Ashanti, and one named for the Twelve Tribes of Israel.
Rastafarianism (or Rasta)
Jamaica
Mansions of Rastafari
Korban, or animal sacrifice, originally took place in this location, then ceased in 70 CE. For 10 points each:
Name this site of religious worship. It replaced the Tabernacle in function, and the Book of Ezekiel prophesizes a Third one of these places, succeeding two that had been previously destroyed.
The Jewish hope for “Next year in Jerusalem” is often spoken at the Seder during this holiday, expressing the wish for a rebuilt Temple. This spring holiday commemorates when Jews avoided the Angel of Death by painting on their doors.
This central Jewish prayer originally took place three times a day in the Temple. Its Hebrew name literally means “Standing Prayer,” and it currently includes nineteen blessings.
the Temple in Jerusalem (or the Holy Temple; accept First, Second, or Third Temple)
Passover (or Pesach)
Amidah (or Tefilat HaAmidah; prompt on Shmoneh Esreh or the Eighteen)
One of these buildings in Iran pioneered an architectural layout named for its four alcove-like spaces called <em>iwan</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these Muslim religious buildings where prayer is led by an imam.
A defining feature of mosques are these tall towers from which the muezzin announces the call to prayer.
Each mosque will also contain one of these special niches. They guide prayer by marking the qiblah, or direction to Mecca.
mosques (or al-masjid)
minarets
mihrab
This book mentions the miracle of catching 153 fish without the net being torn. For 10 points each:
Name this New Testament book. As Jesus is being crucified in this book, he entrusts his mother to the “disciple whom he loved.”
In John 16, Jesus says it is better that he departs so that this Helper, or Advocate can come. Its first appearance in Acts was marked by tongues of fire and speaking in tongues.
This last book of the New Testament is attributed to both John the Apostle and John of Patmos. It describes the endtimes in Christian theology.
Gospel According to John
Holy Spirit (or Holy Ghost)
Book of Revelation (or Apocalypse of John)
The 10th and current holder of this position is religiously agreed to be a book, the Adi Granth. For 10 points each:
Name this religious title. Its first holder famously proclaimed, “There is no Hindu; there is no Muslim,” and its ninth was Gobind Singh.
Guru Nanak founded this Indian religion, whose female followers have the surname Kaur. Followers of this religion practice the Five K’s, which includes not cutting their hair.
Another of the Five K’s mandates carrying this item symbolizing Sikhs’ responsibility to defend the oppressed. Carrying this ceremonial dagger sometimes lands Sikhs in trouble with airport security officers.
guru
Sikhism (or Sikhi)
kirpan
Verse 255 of this section is the “Throne Verse.” For 10 points each:
Name this section, the longest in the work it appears in. Its Arabic name is “al-Baqarah,” and its title comes from a passage in which the Israelites refuse to perform a sacrifice commanded by Moses.
“The Cow” is the longest of these chapters in the Quran. The Quran contains 114 of these chapters, and all of them except one begin with the Bismillah. Don’t confuse them with hadiths.
The 19th Surah is titled for this woman, and describes her giving birth to Jesus, who’s called “Isa” in the Quran.
“The Cow” (prompt on “al-Baqarah”; do not read this out loud if not given, but prompt on “second chapter (sura) of the Quran”)
Surahs (or Surat or Sura)
Maryam
Worship no false idols, except (maybe) a full 30 points on a bonus. For 10 points each:
Aaron led the Israelites in creating this animal-like object out of their melted jewelry and worshipping it.
Icons are treated much more respectfully in this Christian church largely based in Greece. It split from the Catholic Church following the Great Schism.
Idolatry and polytheism are known in Islam by this term. Mohammed classified it into “greater” and “lesser” categories, and it comes from the word for “share.”
the golden calf (prompt on just calf, I guess)
Eastern Orthodox Church (or Orthodox Catholic Church)
shirk (or sirk)
This concept literally translates as “quenching.” For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist state of enlightenment in which a person becomes freed from the cycle of rebirth, or samsara. The original Buddha reached this state while sitting under the bodhi tree.
Nirvana can be attained by following this numerically named guideline. It contains factors like “right speech” and “right action,” and shouldn’t be confused with the Four Noble Truths.
In Theravada Buddhism, the Noble Eightfold Path can lead to attaining this position in which a person is released from their “fetters.” Chinese Buddhism also believes in eighteen of these people.
nirvana
Noble Eightfold Path (accept Noble Eightfold Way)
arhat (or arahant)
This group quotes Ecclesiastes 7:1 to explain their practice of not celebrating birthdays. For 10 points each:
Name this American Christian sect which publishes a pamphlet called The Watchtower.
In addition to door-to-door preaching, Jehovah’s Witnesses are known for their refusal to receive transfusions of this substance. During Communion, practitioners drink wine that transubstantiates into this substance from Christ.
A key tenet of Witness eschatology is that this many people will go to heaven and rule the kingdom of God alongside Christ. Awkwardly, this number is way lower than the current population of Witnesses, 8.2 million.
Jehovah’s Witnesses (prompt on partial answer; prompt on JWs)
blood
144000
This man once caught three hundred foxes and placed torches in their tails to destroy the crops of his enemies. For 10 points each:
Name this Biblical judge who died after pulling down the columns of the temple of the pagan god Dagon.
This woman was Samson’s lover and ultimately caused his downfall by making Samson reveal the source of his prodigious strength, which was his uncut hair.
Delilah betrayed Samson for this frequent enemy of the Israelites. Goliath was a prominent warrior of these people whose name has become synonymous in modern times with being uncultured or anti-intellectual.
Samson
Delilah
Philistines
Show your knowledge of the sacred rites of Roman Catholicism. For 10 points each:
 At several points in special liturgies, a "thurible" on a chain is swung back and forth. Thuribles contain this substance, which is burned.
In this sacrament, congregants take the body and blood of Jesus Christ. It is a more or less symbolic reenactment of the Last Supper, and is thus sometimes called the "Lord's Supper."
This device is used to reverently display the consecrated and transfigured Eucharist to the congregation. It is often made of gold and ornately decorated.
incense
Holy Communion [or the Eucharist]
 monstrance [or ostensorium; or ostensory]
Answer some questions about the number five in Islam, for 10 points each.
Known as salat in Arabic, this action is done by Muslims five times a day and ritually involves bowing and rising in a cycle called rak'at. At mosques, people performing this act face the qibla niche after the mu'azzin's call.
Fivers, or Zaidis, are a sect of this branch of Islam. The Zaidis, along with the Isma'ilis, are outnumbered by the majority Twelvers in this denomination.
The Five Pillars of Islam require alms-giving, a munificent practice with this Arabic name, which is contrasted with voluntary sadaqah and the jizya imposed on non-Muslims.
prayer [or praying; accept equivalents]
Shi'as [or Shi'ites; or Shi'a Islam; or Shi'ism]
zakat [or zakah]
This religion's sacred text is The Divine Principle. For 10 points each:
Name this religion founded by Sun Myung Moon, which has a dualistic view of God. They own several businesses, including the Washington Times.
The Unification Church is based in this hyper-Christian East Asian country. Confucianism spread here after several invasions from neighboring China.
The Unification Church is most famous for performing these ceremonies en masse. At a Jewish one, a glass is broken underfoot, and in Christianity, they are often announced with "banns."
Unification Church [accept Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity, accept Moonies]
South Korea [or Republic of Korea; or ROK; or Daehan Minguk]
weddings [or Blessing ceremonies; accept marriages]
Tradition holds that this book was written by Saint Luke. For 10 points each:
Name this fifth book of the New Testament. It describes the events celebrated on Pentecost, as well as the most detailed account of the Ascension.
This woman, strangely, does not appear at all in Acts. Tradition holds that she repented of her sins and anointed the feet of Jesus, which she held during the deposition.
Acts includes a sermon delivered by Paul at this location, imploring Greeks to stop worshipping idols and the pagan gods.
The Acts of the Apostles [or Praxeis ton Apostolon; or Actus Apostolorum]
Mary Magdalene [or Mary of Magdala; prompt on just "Mary"]
the Areopagus [accept Areopagus sermon] 
Name some patron saints from Christianity, for 10 points each:
A children’s cancer research center in Memphis is named after this apostle, which might seem a bit strange considering that he is the patron saint of lost causes.
This man’s extensive writings earned him the title of patron saint of librarians. He is also the patron saint of translators, owing to his creation of the Latin version of the Bible known as the Vulgate.
This woman is often depicted carrying around a tiny tower. Her father Dioscorus was struck by lightning after killing this woman, leading her to become the patron saint of people working with explosives.
Saint Jude (or Saint Thaddeus)
Saint Jerome
Saint Barbara
This practice is usually preceded by a ritual washing known as <em><strong>wudu</strong></em>.For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name this pillar of Islam also called salat.People are required to perform this action with qiblain mind.
The call to prayer, or adhan,is usually delivered from one of these tall spires that form part of a mosque.
The aforementioned wuduis one example of an action that falls under this category in Islamic jurisprudence. Unlike halal,this Arabic word denotes duties that are obligatory, and is thus the polar opposite of haram.
prayer(accept word forms)
minarets
fard(or faridah;or wajib)
Adherents of this religion believe in an apocalyptic event whose name literally translates as “making excellent,” the <em>Frashokereti</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Persian religion, known for constructing Towers of Silence to place their dead. Its sacred texts are known as the Avesta and it worships the god Ahura Mazda.
This evil figure in Zoroastrianism is the leader of a group of demons known as daevas. An offshoot branch of Zoroastrianism known as Zurvanism considers this being as Ahura Mazda’s twin brother.
According to legend, this other figure in Zoroastrianism will spend the first 17 years of his life eating only vegetables. This messianic figure will then resurrect the dead after bringing about the Frashokereti.
Zoroastrianism (accept word forms; prompt on “Mazdaism”)
Ahriman (or Angra Mainyu)
Saoshyant
This angel guided Enoch to Heaven. For 10 points each:
Name this sometimes-fourth archangel who checked the doorways of households in Egypt for lamb’s blood during the Passover. He wielded a flaming sword at the gates of Eden.
This Messenger of the Lord didn’t need his horn to deliver the shocking news to Mary that she was pregnant with the son of God, Jesus.
In Kabbalah, this highest ranking angel serves as the Scribe of God. This angel also has a namesake cube that is a variant on the Flower of Life.
Uriel
Gabriel
Metatron
This sect’s core beliefs are known as the “foursquare gospel.” For 10 points each:
Name this fastest-growing Christian denomination. Prominent practices in this church include the laying on of hands and speaking in tongues.
A key tenet of Pentecostalism states that baptism with this entity is distinct from the ritual of water baptism. Along with the Father and the Son, this being comprises the Holy Trinity.
The origins of Pentecostalism lie in this early 20th-century movement led by William J. Seymour. It is named for the Los Angeles road where church meetings took place.
Pentecostalism (accept equivalents like the Pentecostal Church)
Holy Spirit (or Holy Ghost)
Azusa Street Revival
“In the beginning was the Word”--name these holy texts, for 10 points each:
One printing of this translation of the Bible infamously said “thou shalt commit adultery.” This translation was authorized in 1611 by its namesake English monarch.
Though not collected in a single text, these sayings of Muhammad are regarded as sacred. With the Quran, they form the basis of religious law.
The Kebra Negast is a major work in this Caribbean religion. The groups of this religion are called mansions, and adherents follow a diet called ital.
King James Version (or KJV)
hadith (accept ahadith)
Rastafarianism (accept word forms)
Name these things related to modern syncretic religions, for 10 points each:
The Unification Church was founded in Korea by Sun Myung Moon from the teachings of the Bible and is known for holding these mass ceremonies. In Judaism, these ceremonies are often concluded by stepping on a wineglass.
Wallace D. Fard founded this American religion whose later leaders included Elijah Muhammad and Louis Farrakhan. This primarily African-American movement teaches about a scientist named Yakub.
This Vietnamese religion incorporates Buddhist and Catholic concepts. Its supreme creator is symbolized by a left eye.
wedding (or marriage; accept word forms and obvious equivalents)
Nation of Islam (do not accept or prompt on just “Islam”)
Cao Dai (or Caodaism)
Old McAbraham had a farm--name these animals from the Abrahamic religions, for 10 points each:
One of Jesus’s parables describes a man who searches for a lost one of these animals despite having 99 others in his flock. Jesus is typically symbolized both as a man tending these animals and a young one of these animals.
One of these animals talks to Balaam after he beats it three times before he realizes it was trying to help him avoid being skewered by the Angel of the Lord. In Jewish tradition, the Messiah will arrive on one of these animals.
According to the longest surah of the Quran, the Israelites sacrifice a yellow one of these animals to please Allah.
sheep (accept shephard; accept lamb or lamb of god)
donkey (or ass)
cow (do not accept or prompt on “bull”)
He was put in a pit by his brothers and sold as a slave to Ishmaelite traders. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Jacob who interprets dreams and becomes an Egyptian official. His father makes him a notable coat of many colors.
This fourth son of Jacob and half-brother of Joseph suggested selling him into slavery. The word Jew and the name of a historical kingdom of Jews derive this figure’s name.
This third son of Jacob is the ancestor of his namesake priestly tribe. His descendents are granted that honor after refusing to worship the Golden Calf.
Joseph (or Yosef)
Judah (or Yehudah)
Levi
The third Noble Truth provides for the existence of this state. For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist term for enlightenment that results from liberation from samsara and the cycle of rebirth.
This Indian philosopher quipped that there is no distinction whatsoever between samsara and nirvana. He is also known for saying that “form is emptiness; emptiness is form” in the Heart Sutra.
Nagarjuna was an important figure in this school of Buddhism, which emphasizes the role of bodhisattvas. This movement’s name roughly translates to “Great Vehicle,” and it’s contrasted with Theravada.
nirvana
Nagarjuna
Mahayana Buddhism (anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on “Madhyamaka”)
Name some things related to the Christian aspects of the wonderful fig tree, for 10 points each:
This pair of figures cover their shame with the leaves of the fig tree after being cast from the Garden of Eden.
The parable of the barren fig tree is found in this Gospel, the third and longest of the Gospels. Other unique parables in this Gospel include the Good Samaritan and the Lost Son.
Jesus angrily curses a fig tree for not having any fruit shortly after leaving this village. The House of Martha and Mary is in this village, Jesus is anointed in this village, and Jesus heads to Jerusalem after leaving this village.
Adam and Eve (prompt on partial)
Gospel of Luke
Bethany
The book of Psalms is traditionally attributed to this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this great Hebrew king. Some of the darker chapters in this man’s life include his adultery with Bathsheba and the rebellion of his son Absalom.
After conquering a Jebushite fortress here, David made this city his capital and moved the Ark of the Covenant here. Solomon commissioned the first Temple in this city.
Under this king, the grandson of David, the ten northern tribes of Israel rebelled to form the Kingdom of Israel.
King David
Jerusalem
Rehoboam
The Vaisakhi harvest festival is the most sacred in this religion. For 10 points each:
Name this monotheistic religion that was founded by Nanak and which celebrates ten gurus.
Uncut hair and the carrying of a sword are among this number of “K”s in Sikhism. There are also this many Thieves, or vices, in Sikhism.
This eleventh and eternal “Guru of the Sikhs” is divided by ragas, or musical settings into 1430 pages of religious text.
Sikhism (accept word forms)
five
Adi Granth (or Guru Granth Sahib)
Ismail and Jacob both had this many sons. For 10 points each:
Give this number of tribes of Israel.
Twelve shepherds witness this event in Bethlehem, which was viewed by the Three Wise Men.
Revelation compares the church to a figure of this sort wearing a crown decorated with twelve stars. The song Lecha Dodi compares the Sabbath to one of these figures, who are the subject of the ketubah contract in Judaism.
twelve
the nativity of Jesus Christ [accept the birth of Jesus Christ or equivalents]
brides [or wives; prompt on “women”] &lt;AP Religion&gt;
This religion venerates texts such as the Kitab al-Hikma and the Rasa’il al-Hind. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle Eastern religious group that reveres Jethro of Midian as the ultimate prophet.
Druze is symbolized by a five-colored, five-pointed one of these objects. A six-pointed one of these shapes often symbolizes Judaism.
In this religion, the star Kolob is the geometrically nearest thing to God. The Golden Plates, the origin of this religion’s sacred texts, refer to the Angel Moroni and the patriarch Lehi.
Druze [accept Derzii, Durzii, Durooz, Druzi, or Druzim]
star [or pentagram]
Mormonism [or The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints; or LDS] &lt;AP Religion&gt;
Answer the following about religious uses of prayer beads. For 10 points each:
The Catholic Church espouses this form of devotion, which is named for the string of prayer beads used to count its fifteen “Mysteries.”
In Islam, a string of prayer beads called a misbaḥa is used in a prayer that ends with 34 repetitions of this specific Arabic language phrase, also known as the takbīr.
In Hinduism and Buddhism, a string of prayer beads called a māla, or “garland,” is used in japa, a form of this practice. This practice is usually defined as concentrated and sustained thought.
the Rosary [or rosarium]
Allāhu Akbar [prompt on “God is great”]
meditation [anti-prompt on “tapas” or “zazen”; do not accept “yoga”] &lt;AP Religion&gt;
In some areas, this festival is dedicated to one of Krishna’s wives, Satyabhama, who killed a demon after Krishna was felled by an arrow. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu “festival of lights” that is celebrated by the lighting of diya lamps.
A lamp called the ner tamid usually hangs above the ark, where the Torah is kept, in these houses of worship of Judaism.
Ancient Catholic methods of this process involved the extinguishing of twelve candles by throwing them to the ground. This method gave rise to the phrase “bell, book, and candle.”
Deepavali [or Diwali; or Deepabali]
synagogues [prompt on “temple”]
excommunication [or anathema; prompt on “disfellowship”] &lt;AP Religion&gt;
With a colleague, this saint founded the Poor Clares. For 10 points each:
Name this saint, who was told by the crucifix of the Church of San Damiano to “repair my house” before going on to found the Order of Friars Minor. The current Pope chose to honor this saint by adopting his name.
Saint Francis was the author of this religious poem written in Italian, which praises all of God’s creations, including such entities as Sister Moon, Mother Earth, and Sister Bodily Death.
While Saint Francis was by the road near Bevagna, he performed a miracle by giving a sermon to a group of these animals and chided himself for not having thought of doing so before.
Saint Francis of Assisi [or San Francesco d’Assisi or Giovanni di Pietro di Bernardone]
Canticle of the Sun [or Canticle of the Creatures]
birds [or avians; anti-prompt on specific types] &lt;WC Religion&gt;
Answer some things about early heresies in Christianity. For 10 points each:
In Monarchianism, the Father and the Son are regarded as different designations for this figure, as opposed to the doctrine of the Trinity, in which this figure comprises three different persons, the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
During the reign of Emperor Leo III, this heresy became an official government policy. This heresy rejected the creation and veneration of religious images, and its name literally translates into “image-breaking.”
This heresy rejected the divinity of Jesus Christ and affirmed his status as a created being. Saint Athanasius, the Bishop of Alexandria, argued against this heresy, and it was officially condemned at the Council of Nicaea.
God [or The Lord or Yahweh or Jehovah or Allah; do not accept “Jesus”]
iconoclasm [or iconoclastic]
Arianism &lt;WC Religion&gt;
This man’s mother promised God that if she were delivered a son, his hair would never be cut. For 10 points each:
Name this prophet who anoints Saul as the first King of Israel in a book of the Bible that is named after him.
Samuel secretly anointed this shepherd as successor to Saul. He came to prominence after he killed the Philistine warrior Goliath.
After Samuel’s death, Saul consulted this woman with supernatural powers in an attempt to conjure Samuel’s spirit. Samuel’s spirit was annoyed when this woman successfully raised him from the dead.
Samuel
David
Witch of Endor [or Medium of Endor] &lt;NC Religion&gt;
Answer some questions about Chinese religion. For 10 points each:
According to legend, Lǎozǐ wrote the Classic of the Way of Power, a text from this religious tradition, after Yǐnxǐ, the guardian of Hángǔ Pass, begged him to write a book. It emphasizes the balance of yin and yang.
This persecuted religious movement was founded by Lǐ Hóngzhì, a qìgōng practitioner. It advocates the cultivation of the xīnxìng, or “mind-nature,” by performing exercises called xiūliàn.
One school of this religion reveres the monk Dharmakara, who, upon attaining enlightenment, became Amitabha, the ruler of the Pure Land after which that school is named.
Daoism [or Taoism or Dàojiào or Dàojiā sīxiǎng]
Fǎlún Gōng [or Fǎlún Dàfǎ]
Mahayana Buddhism [or Fójiào] &lt;WC Religion&gt;
A religion from this nation venerates a prince who lived 18,000 years ago named Shenrab. For 10 points each:
Name this nation home to the Bön religion and the Gelug school, which separates the Red Hat and Yellow Hat sects. Tenzin Gyatso is an exiled leader from this nation.
Tenzin Gyatso, who fled Tibet nine years after its takeover by China, is the fourteenth and current holder of this position. Holders of this position effectively ruled Tibet for three centuries.
A Tibetan text about the process of reincarnation is often known in the West by this name, in reference to another text with this name that, like the Pyramid and Coffin Texts, is an Egyptian funerary document.
Tibet
Dalai Lama [prompt on “Lama”]
Tibetan Book of the Dead [or Bardo Thodol] &lt;JB Religion&gt;
The festival of Kumbh Mela is celebrated at this river, where devotees often go to conduct mourning rites that include <em>shraaddha</em> and <em>tarpana</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this holiest river of Hinduism.
This city in Uttar Pradesh on the banks of the Ganges is one of the most sacred Hindu cities besides Ayodhya and Brindavan. Pilgrims arrive at this city’s 87 ghats to bathe in the Ganges.
In Varanasi, there are two temples to this ten-armed warrior goddess who rides a tiger. On Dussehra, Bengalis celebrate this deity’s victory over the demon Mahishasura.
Ganges [or Ganga]
Varanasi [accept Banaras or Benares or Kashi]
Durga [or Mahishasura-Mardini] &lt;AP Religion&gt;
This action is one of the five pillars of Islam. For 10 points each:
Provide the Arabic name for the pilgrimage to Mecca that all observant Muslims are expected to complete at least once in their life.
In September 2015, over 700 people died at the Hajj in a stampede during the stoning of this figure, a ritual that involves throwing rocks at walls that represent this figure.
One of the central events of the Hajj is a visit to the Masjid al-Haram, which contains this black stone. All Muslims pray in the direction of this stone, which Muslims believe was placed by Abraham.
the Hajj
the Devil [or Shayṭān or Iblīs]
Ka‘aba &lt;NC Religion&gt;
Answer the following about the activities of religions in unexpected places. For 10 points each:
This apostle was buried in India, where he taught for several years before his death.
Uniquely, several Chinese Islamic communities allow women to serve as these leaders of Muslim prayer. In a branch of Shi‘a Islam, the Mahdi is considered the twelfth holder of this position.
One of these objects in Australia was created for the Great Stupa of Eternal Passion. A smaller one of these objects was found in archaeological excavations in Helgö, Sweden.
Saint Thomas
imams
statues of the Buddha &lt;AP Religion&gt;
The feast in this Christian holiday began as a celebration of the giving of the Law on Sinai, and is practiced in Judaism as Shavuot.  For 10 points each:
Name this holiday that commemorates the original descent of the Holy Spirit upon Jesus’ disciples, who upon receiving it, began to speak in different languages. Priests wear red garments to symbolize joy.
During Pentecost, this saint delivered an open-air sermon. The acts of this first Pope, who was originally a fisherman before becoming one of Jesus’ first apostles, are featured in the first half of the Acts of Apostles.
Scholars believe that Peter gave his sermon in this room in Jerusalem, which was also the site of the Last Supper. A structure identified as this room on Mount Zion is a popular site for pilgrimage.
Pentecost
Saint Peter [or Simon Peter]
The Cenacle (or Upper Room)
The presence of a new moon signifies that this occurrence has begun. For 10 points each:
Name this ninth month of the Islamic calendar, where Muslims must fast from dawn until sunset. Immoral activities such as swearing and procrastination are also prohibited.
The end of Ramadan is marked by this holiday, which is subsequently also the first day of Shawwal. During this holiday, Muslims engage in a large feast and donate food to the poor.
This night during Ramadan was supposedly the night on which the first verses of the Quran were revealed to Muhammad. During this night, Allah supposedly blesses everyone and angels descend to earth.
Ramadan
Eid al-Fitr (accept the Feast of Breaking, Sugar Feast, or Bayram)
Laylat al-Qadr (accept Night of Power, Night of Destiny, Night of Value, Night of Decree, or Night of Measures) &lt;GA&gt;
The three Sabbath meals are traditionally begun with this food item, and on Passover, it is replaced by matzah. For 10 points each:
Name this food item that represents the manna, which fell from the heavens and onto the Israelites during the Exodus.
On Rosh Hashanah, rounded challah bread is covered with this sweet additive to represent the “sweet new year.” When Moses spoke to the Burning Bush, God promised him a land flowing with milk and this substance.
This substance is needed for the blessing of challah bread during kiddush. The Torah states that this substance symbolizes the eternal covenant with God, and that without it, a meal cannot be considered a meal.
challah bread (prompt on bread)
honey
salt &lt;WX&gt;
These structures house spirit-containing items known as <em>shintai</em>, which include comma-shaped <em>megatama</em> stones and <em>gohei</em> wands. For 10 points each:
Name these Japanese religious structures. They are centered around honden, which contain mirrors or statues representing kami.
Shinto shrines are often guarded by stone kitsune statues, which depict these animals. Inari is the kami of these animals, and they may be represented with up to nine tails in Japanese mythology.
These gates that mark the transition into sacred territory can also be found near shinto shrines. They usually consist of a black horizontal lintel across two vermillion poles.
Shinto temples (or Shinto shrines, accept clear knowledge equivalents)
foxes
torii &lt;AT&gt;
Children drown out the name of Haman and participates wear costumes during this holiday celebrated on the 13th of Adar. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday that celebrates the heroism of Queen Esther and the deliverance of Persian Jews from the royal vizier’s plot to murder them.
Vows are annulled and participants fast for twenty-five hours during this Jewish day of atonement and repentance that follows Rosh Hashanah.
This eight day holiday commemorates the success of a revolt led by the Maccabees against Antiochus IV and is celebrated by lighting a menorah and eating fried foods, such as sufganiyots and latkes.
Purim
Yom Kippur
Hanukkah &lt;NW&gt;
Adherents of this religion, who are collectively known as the Khalsa, frequently go on pilgrimages to the Golden Temple in Amritsar. For 10 points each:
Name this Punjab-based religion founded by Guru Nanak. Practitioners of this religion wear the Five K’s at all times.
One of the five K’s is this ceremonial dagger, which is symbolic of the triumph of morality over injustice. The legality of possessing these objects in public spaces has been questioned.
This is the central religious text of Sikhism. It is considered to be the last of eleven gurus, and contains the writings of the previous ten gurus.
Sikhism
kirpan
Adi Granth [accept Guru Granth Sahib] &lt;PS&gt;
The poet Rumi founded the Mevlevi order of this religious sect, which practices “whirling” during the Sema ceremony. For 10 points each:
Name this mystical sect of Islam that maintains awareness of God by performing dhikr and whose adherents are known as dervishes.
This other sect of Islam believes that Muhammad’s successor in the Caliphate is his son-in-law, Ali. Behind Sunni, it is the second-largest denomination in Islam.
These members of Shia Islam believe in a namesake number of divinely ordained successors to the Prophet Muhammad. This group believes that the “hidden Imam,” the Mahdi, will rid the world of evil before Judgement Day.
Sufism
Shia (accept Shiites)
twelvers (accept Imamiyyah) &lt;NW&gt;
This religion is practiced in both New Orleans and Haiti, and has roots in West African traditions. For 10 points each:
Name this religion which was syncretized with Catholicism in America and is associated with its namesake dolls.
These deities receive the prayers of followers of voodoo, since the Supreme Creator, Bondye, is unreachable. They are subdivided into nations, and families, and can be summoned by a veve.
This loa is always the first one to be invoked in a summoning, and represents crossroads and communication. He is usually portrayed as an old man with a dog by his side.
voodoo [accept voodou, vodun, vodoun, or other clear equivalents]
loa
Papa Legba &lt;PS&gt;
Its calendar is divided into nineteen months of nineteen days each. For 10 points each:
Name this faith that believes that prominent religious figures throughout history, such as Jesus, Buddha, and Mohammed, are manifestations of God. It is currently governed by the House of Justice.
This man is the only one who holds the title of Guardian of the Baha’i faith. He lived during the twentieth century, and translated several Baha’i works into English.
One of the works Shoghi Effendi translated was this primary text of the Baha’i faith. Written by Baha’u’llah, it examines the interconnectedness of religions through the view of a Muslim and that of a Christian.
Ad­-Din al­-Baha'i
Shoghi Effendi​
The Book of Certitude ​[accept K​itab-­i-­Iqan] &lt;PS&gt;
Followers of this religion were known for their opposition to slavery. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian sect known for its pacifism. Its colloquial name comes from the command to "tremble at the word of the Lord."
This man founded the Quakers. He was arrested for blasphemy twice, once while preaching under a tree at Balby.
Quakers believe that all people have inside them this representation of God's presence. "Unprogrammed worship" involves any member of the congregation trying to lead the congregation towards this concept.
Quakers [accept Religious Society of Friends]
George Fox
inner light [accept inward light]
Answer some questions about women who have their own Old Testament books, for 10 points each.
This woman married the Persian king in order to stop a plot to kill the Jews. Her namesake book forms the basis for the holiday Purim.
This woman set the precedent for conversion and familial piety in her namesake book by telling her mother-in-law that "your people shall be my people, and your God shall be my God".
Ruth was formerly a resident of this land before marrying Boaz. Namesake residents of this region east of the Dead Sea and south of Ammon were rivals with the Israelites.
Esther [or Hadassah]
Ruth
Moab [accept Moabites]
Answer these questions about totems called Tjurungu ("chuh-ROON-guh"), for 10 points each:
Tjurunga are spiritual totems of indigenous people from this country. Those people are collectively known as "Aborigines."
The Tjurunga cannot be approached by people who have not undergone this rite. Women, foreigners, and children who have not come of age cannot undergo this. 
This ritual, performed on male Jewish babies, is an example of an initiation rite.
Australia
initiation rite [accept equivalents like initiation into the clan]
circumcision [or brit milah; or bris; prompt on first mitzvah] 
For 10 points each, name some things associated with pillars of Islam.
This pillar of Islam, which takes place during the last month of the Islamic calendar, is a ritual pilgrimage to Mecca.
This other pillar of Islam involves giving alms to the poor and needy. Its non-Muslim equivalent is the Jizyah tax.
 By not declaring that Allah is the only god, one would be failing to uphold the pillar Shahadah and committing this sin. This sin also encompasses idolatry and polytheism, in general.
hajj
zakat
shirk
Answer the following about significant numbers in religion, for 10 points each.
This Jewish numerological tradition assigns numbers to letters, words, and phrases. In this system, the letters of chai, meaning life, add to 18, which is therefore considered a lucky number.
This is the number of days of Creation in Genesis including resting, the number of holy virtues and deadly sins in Christianity, and the number of skies or heavens in a variety of religions including Islam.
The number five is important in this Indian religion as the number of virtues, thieves or sins to be avoided, men comprising the Panj Piare, and Articles of Faith that adherents must wear.
gematriya
seven
Sikhism
Answer some questions about bits of the Jewish prayer service for 10 points each.
This prayer, one kind of which is said by mourners, is used to split up sections of a prayer service. It needs 10 Jewish adults present to be said.
This prayer, traditionally said twice a day, is a restatement of three passages from the Bible, starting with "Hear O Israel, the LORD is God, the LORD is one." Along with the Amidah, it is one of the central prayers in Judaism.
The Kol Nidre prayer is said during this Jewish Day of Atonement, which occurs during the month of Tishrei.
Kaddish
Shma
Yom Kippur
Three Tenebrae services are held in the days before this religious observance, in which up to seven Old Testament readings precede an epistle and the “Alleluia Gospel.” For 10 points each:
Name this Catholic Mass in which baptisms and confirmations occur before the Eucharist. It includes the lighting of a candle with an alpha and an omega inscribed in it.
The Easter vigil, actually on the night before Easter, ends this solemn part of the Christian liturgical year which starts forty days prior to Easter on Ash Wednesday.
This holiday, fifty days after Easter, celebrates the descent of the Holy Spirit as tongues of fire on the Apostles.
Easter vigil [prompt “Holy Saturday;” DO NOT accept or prompt “Easter” alone]
Lent [or Lententide; or Lenten season]
Pentecost [or Whitsunday] &lt;MPG/MJ&gt;
The Caribbean <em>Ifa</em> ritual uses sixteen nuts from this plant for divination, and a part of it is torn off and cut into strips during the <em>kanzo</em> initiation ceremony as a man becomes a priest in Voodoo. For 10 points each:
Name this tropical tree whose leaves were set at Jesus’s path as he entered Jerusalem. It now names the Sunday before Easter.
This Caribbean religion uses palm nuts for the Ifa divination ceremony. This syncretic Cuban faith worships orishas and got sued for sacrificing live chickens.
In Santería, a set of these articles of clothing called ilekes shows initiation into a certain orisha’s care, as defined by their color.
palm tree [or palm nuts; or palm leaves; or palm fronds]
Santería [or Regla de Ocha; or La Regla Lukumi]
bead necklaces [or beads; or collars] &lt;MJ&gt;
This branch of Judaism derives its name from the Hebrew for “loving kindness,” and it values fervor and spirituality over strict adherence to the letter of Jewish law. For ten points each:
Name this branch of Judaism which is nonetheless ultra-Orthodox. Chabad is affiliated with this movement, which was founded in the 1600s by the Baal Shem Tov.
Hasidic Jews consider this day of rest to be the center of the week. Observant Jews refrain from flipping light switches to keep it sacred, and celebrate it every Saturday.
Because Hasidic Jews strictly observe Shabbat, this thick egg-based bread must be finished before Shabbat begins. It resembles a fat braid.
Hasidism [or Hasidic Jews; or Hasidism]
Shabbat [or the Sabbath day; or Shabbos]
challah [or ḥallah] &lt;DSt/MJ&gt;
Many hymns in this language are devoted to Agni, a god who accepts sacrifices by fire. For 10 points each:
Name this language of classical India, which was used to write the Rig Veda and three other Vedas. Many Hindus still use this language, rather than Hindi, while making offerings.
The Rig Veda contains hymns to this Indic storm god, who slew the serpent Vrtra while riding his many-headed white elephant Airavata. He is Arjuna’s father.
This other, closely-related language of the Prakrit family was used to write down the Tipitaka, or “Three Baskets,” of Buddhist scripture.
Sanskrit language [or Samskrta]
Indra
Pali language &lt;MJ&gt;
Answer these questions about changes in bodily appearance inspired by religious beliefs, for 10 points each.
Islamic males must often undergo the khitan form of this procedure, which occurs at a mandatory bris ceremony for eight-day-old Jewish boys and removes the foreskin.
Sikhs are forbidden from this practice by the Kesh article of faith. It was also forbidden for the biblical Nazirites, and was done to one of them by Delilah in an act of treachery.
This procedure of boring a hole in the skull appears in many French Neolithic and pre-Columbian fossils, perhaps due to a religious surgery that made divine inspiration easier.
circumcision [or being circumcised; accept word forms]
cutting one’s hair [or shaving]
trepanation [or trepanning; or trephination] &lt;MJ&gt;
Answer the following questions about Jewish religious law, for 10 points each.
This term refers to the 613 commandments given by God in the Torah which mature Jews must obey at thirteen years of age. In recent times, this Hebrew word refers more generally to good deeds.
Because this building in Jerusalem no longer exists, about half the mitzvot are unobservable and thereby not required. It contained a “holy of holies” until all but its Western Wall was destroyed in 70 CE.
On top of the Mitzvot, observant Jews adhere to this collection of rabbinic laws and debates, which is further divided into the Mishna and Gemara.
mitzvoth [or mitzvah, the singular form]
the Temple [or the Second Temple; or Beit ha-Mikdash]
Talmud &lt;MJ&gt;
This holiday falls annually on the first day of Tishrei. For 10 points each:
Name this holiday, the Jewish New Year, which is followed in ten days by the atonement-heavy Yom Kippur.
This instrument, traditionally made from a ram's horn, is blown by Biblical command on Rosh Hashanah.
This specialized prayer book is traditionally used in place of a normal siddur on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur.
Rosh Hashanah
shofar
machzor [or mahzor] &lt;DSt&gt;
This religion’s five principles include <em>satya,</em> or always speaking truth unless truth would lead to violence, and the tirthankara were the original preachers of this religion. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian religion founded by Mahavira, which preaches a principle of strict non-violence.
This core principle of Jainism, roughly translated “nonviolence,” requires adherents to do no harm. Some practicing Jains take care to avoid killing insects to uphold this principle.
A prominent symbol of Jainism is one of these objects with a wheel inside it. The hamsa amulet shows one of these inscribed with an eye.
Jainism [or Jain dharma]
ahimsa
a human hand [or palm of the hand] &lt;MPG&gt;
Answer these questions about dualistic religions, which posit a good principle or good god in a cosmic struggle against evil, for 10 points each.
In this endangered Persian religion, the good god Ahura Mazda and his allies fights the evil Ahriman. Some scholars argue that its namesake prophet inspired early Judaism.
This later Persian faith taught that souls from the “world of light” were trapped in our bodies in this “world of darkness.” Its hierarchy of “elect” served by “hearers” was critiqued by ex-member Saint Augustine.
This dualistic splinter sect of Christianity appointed so-called “Perfects” to live ascetic, vegetarian lives in medieval southern France. They were wiped out by Catholic armies.
Zoroastrianism [prompt “Mazdaism”]
Manichaeism [prompt “Gnosticism” even though that’s basically wrong]
Cathars [or Cathari; accept Albigensians or Albigenses] &lt;MJ&gt;
In Jewish communities, this action must be performed by a professional called the <em>shochet.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this practice which, in another religion, can be done by any sane People of the Book who say the name of Allah beforehand. Debates rage over whether pre-stunning violates the religious ethics of this process.
In this religion, the dhabihah form of ritual slaughter is required to ensure that food is halal. Its adherents use Arabic to pray in mosques.
This form of Islamic law, whose consideration is banned in Oklahoma courts, defines slaughter practices further. It is interpreted by a form of jurisprudence called fiqh.
ritual slaughter [or killing an animal for consumption]
Islam
shari’a &lt;MJ&gt;
The Catholic Church makes a distinction between these people and Religious Sisters such as Mother Teresa, even though the proper title for these people is “Sister.” For 10 points each:
Name these female Catholics who take religious orders and live together in convents.
Many nuns join this mendicant order, sometimes called the “Dogs of God” as a Latin pun or the “Blackfriars” for their black robes. Its namesake Spanish founder set it up similarly to the Franciscans.
This woman, a Dominican but not a nun, helped convince the papacy to return from Avignon to Rome in the 1370s. Her decision to eat nothing but the Eucharist is sometimes labeled “anorexia mirabilis.”
nuns
Dominican order [or O.P.; or Order of Preachers; or Ordo Praedicatorum]
Saint Catherine of Siena [prompt partial answer] &lt;MJ&gt;
This character was described after a lawyer in a crowd asked “Who is my neighbor?” in the Gospel of Luke, and he belonged to a splinter sect that drew revulsion from Roman-era Jews. For 10 points each:
Name this New Testament figure who helped a beaten and robbed Jewish man after that victim was ignored by a Levite and a Priest.
The good Samaritan is the subject of one of these short anecdotes related by Jesus to illustrate his teachings.
This other parable from the three synoptic Gospels likens the kingdom of Heaven to a tiny object which is hard to see at first but is destined to become massive in size.
the good Samaritan
parables
parable of the mustard seed [teams must have both halves to get points; prompt “seed” since there are other parables involving less specific seeds] &lt;SSp&gt;
[missing]
 This second largest branch of Islam believes that Muhammad's successor was his son-in-law, the first imam. The Alavis, Ismaili, and Zaidi are part of this branch.
 This sect of Shia Islam is represented by a five-point star, and is centered in Lebanon and Syria. They are divided into the uqqal and the jahhal. Unlike other sects, adherents are not required to observe most religious rituals.
 This largest branch of Shia Islam gets its name from the number of imams it believes existed. They have a strict order for the number of imams, starting with Ali and ending with the Mahdi, the savior of mankind.
 Shia Islam [or Shi'ites]
 Druze
 Twelvers
[missing]
 Commemorating Jesus' entry into Jerusalem, riding a donkey while others shouted "Hosanna!," it is celebrated by the distribution of its namesake branches to celebrators, although yew or willow are also used.
 This was final meal Jesus had with his apostles. Jesus foresaw a betrayal from one of his disciples, washed their feet, and predicted that St. Peter would deny knowing him at this event.
 The earliest mention of the Last Supper can be found in this book. Thought to be written by Paul, it contains the famous line "When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things."
 Palm Sunday [accept Passion Sunday]
 Last Supper
 First Epistle to the Corinthians [prompt on "Corinthians"]
[missing]
 Name this religion that teaches of divine messengers including Moses, the Buddha, and Mohammed, the most recent ones being the Bab and Baha'u'llah.
 This is the primary text of the Baha'i faith. It includes a passage known as the "Tablet of the True Seeker," and is also known as the Book of Iqan.
 The Baha'i mother temple of India, completed in 1986, takes its name from this flower that it resembles. This is also the name of one of the sutras of Mahayana Buddhism.
 Baha'i
 The Book of Certitude [prompt on "Kitab-i-Iqan"]
 lotus [or Lotus Temple; or Lotus Sutra]
[missing]
 Name this movement which believes in Sophia, an embodiment of wisdom who births an imperfect demiurge which then creates the universe. This religion derives its name from the Greek word for "knowledge".
 One prominent symbol of Gnosticism is the "sun" type of this symbol. A "Greek" type of this symbol has four equal-length arms and symbolizes the Eastern Orthodox church.
 This Gnostic text is a non-canonical gospel which details "the hidden words that the living Jesus spoke". It is named for the apostle who felt Christ's wounds, commenting "my Lord and my God".
 Gnosticism
 crosses
 Gospel of Thomas
[missing]
 This head covering is worn by Sikh men, in part to cover their uncut hair. In Kenya, the Akurinu wear these, and pink ones are worn in India for marriage ceremonies.
 Worn by Muslim women, it is a full-body covering meant to fulfill the requirements of hijab. Some say that the veil portion of this garment is unnecessary in the presence of blind or gay men.
 Jews wear these knotted fringes on each corner of their tallit, or prayer shawl.  Meaning "tassel," certain strands of this must be dyed the color tekhelet. They must be "created with intent."
 turban [accept pagri, bulle, or dastar]
 burqa
 tzitzit
[missing]
 Name this Indian religion emphasizing a strict view of ahimsa, or non-violence. Monks of this religion observe five vows or the Mahavrata, including ahimsa, satya, and aparigraha.
 This cycle of life, death, and reincarnation is a central concept in Indian religions such as Jainism, Buddhism, and Hinduism. It is ended by moksha.
 The central tenets of modern Jainism were established by this Indian sage in the 6th century BC. He organized his followers into four orders and was the last tirthankara.
 Jainism
 samsara
 Mahavira [or Vardhamana] 
[missing]
 This angel revealed the Qur'an to Muhammad over twenty-three years. In Mormonism, he and Noah are the same being. He is known for foretelling the birth of John the Baptist and Jesus Christ.
 This archangel and Gabriel are the only ones mentioned in the Qur'an. He is the patron saint of the military, police force, paramedics, and the city of Brussels. He leads God's army into battle against Satan in the Book of Revelation.
 This angel whose name translates to "God is my light" guards the gates of Eden with a sword of fire. He was the one who informed Noah of the upcoming flood. He also leads Enoch through the heavens and the underworld.
 Gabriel
 Michael
 Uriel
[missing]
 Name this surgical action which Jesus underwent when he was 8 days old, which resulted in the Holy Prepuce. Some Indigenous Australians have this procedure as well as subincision as part of rites of passage.
 This is the Jewish term for ritual circumcision, in which the kvatter carries the baby from the parents to the mohel. After this ceremony, participants are compelled to attend a seudat mitzvah.
 This prophet is a witness to all circumcisions and has a seat set aside for him at brit milah. He proves that Baal is a false god before leaving his mantle to his successor Elisha and ascending to heaven on a chariot of fire.
 circumcision
 brit milah or bris milah
 Elijah the Tishbite [or Eliyahu; or Elias]
[missing]
 This syncretic chief religion of Haiti believes in a supreme god called Bondye. A temple in this religion is called a Hounfour, and female priests are called Mambos.
 In voodoo, these beings are emissaries of Bondye, as he is too great to directly intervene in human lives. Nanchons of these include Ghede, Petro, Kongo, and Rada.  People "mounted" or possessed by these are called "horses."
 This loa of the dead is the head of the Ghede family and fond of alcohol and tobacco. His wife is Maman Brigitte.  He is usually depicted wearing a tuxedo, tinted glasses, and a top hat, representing the way Haitians bury their dead.
 voodoo [accept vodoun or vodon]
 loa [accept Lwa or L'wha; prompt on "Mysteres" or "Invisibles"]
 Baron Samedi [accept Baron Samdi, Bawon Samedi, or Bawon Sanmdi; prompt on partial]
[missing]
 Name this religion teaching that Ahura Mazda will eventually prevail over the evil Angra Mainyu, whose practitioners may expose corpses on a Tower of Silence before cremating them.
 This is the primary sacred text of Zoroastrianism, containing the Yasnas and the Gathas.
 In the Younger Avesta, these supernatural entities advance chaos. In the Gathas, they are false gods that still have a following, and in later texts, they are described as personifications of evil.
 Zoroastrianism [prompt on "Mazdaism" or "Magianism"]
 Avesta
 daevas
[missing]
 Abstinence from animal products was formerly daily during these forty days, but in modern times is generally observed on Fridays. Ash Wednesday, a day of fasting, marks the beginning of this holiday that ends before Easter.
 This month of fasting precedes Shawaal. Laylat al-Qadr occurred during this month, during which meals called suhoor and iftar are eaten before dawn and at sunset, respectively.
 Fasting for this holiday is in memory of the destruction of the temples of Jerusalem, both occurring on this day. In addition to fasting, observers abstain from washing, wearing leather shoes, and studying the Torah.
 Lent [accept Quadragesima]
 Ramadan [accept Ramazan or Ramzan]
 Tisha B'av [accept the Ninth of Av]
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about religion in India.
The Kumbh Mela is a Hindu pilgrimage to this sacred body of water, during which millions of people ritually bathe in it. Unfortunately, the practice has made this river one of the most polluted in the world.
This city, located on the banks of the Ganges in Uttar Pradesh, is a major holy site for Hindus. The Buddha is said to have given his first sermon here.
Another river-related festival, this god’s Chaturthi, involves immersing clay statues of him in water. This remover of obstacles won a race around the world against his brother to earn the fruit of the gods.
Ganges River [or Ganga]
Varanasi
Ganesha &lt;SSp&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about religion in Japan.
This sect of Buddhism is popular in Japan. Its practitioners aim for a temporary loss of self, using puzzling statements called koans and meditation.
The Japanese people once believed that their emperors all descended from this chief Shinto goddess, the kami of the sun. In one myth the other gods have to get her out after she hides in a cave.
These gates mark the beginning of sacred ground at a Shinto temple. They are usually made of wood with two horizontal cross-bars at their tops.
Zen Buddhism [or Ch’an Buddhism; prompt “Mahayana”]
Amaterasu-Omikami
torii &lt;SSp&gt;
In Jainism, this concept is believed to consist of tiny particles which literally accumulate on a person’s soul. For 10 points each:
Name this South Asian concept of causality by deed, which implies that an individual’s good deeds bear good fruit for that individual and the inverse. This principle affects reincarnation.
Hindus and Buddhists give the cycle of reincarnation this name. Breaking free of this cycle allows the soul to attain a state called moksha in Hinduism and nirvana in Buddhism.
One way to achieve moksha is to realize that the omnipresent universal soul is actually the same as the individual soul, manifested in a given living being as the jiva. Name either the universal or individual aspect.
karma
samsara
brahman [universal] OR atman [individual] &lt;MJ&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about a Protestant denomination.
Institutes of the Christian Religion is the magnum opus of this theologian who led a theocraticy at Geneva.
Calvin refused to accept that good works can earn salvation since he believed in this phenomenon, whereby an elect set of people is known by God to be the only future entrants into heaven.
Calvin’s Five Points also included this tenet, that each possible faculty of man is horrible and wicked, rendering his efforts to try and save himself utterly worthless..
John Calvin [or Jean Chauvin]
predestination
total depravity [or total inability; or total corruption; prompt “depravity,” “inability,” or “corruption” by itself] &lt;SSp&gt;
These books, often erroneously lumped in with apocryphal books, include the books of Tobit, Judith, Wisdom, and First Maccabees. For 10 points each:
Identify this group of books generally included in Catholic and Orthodox Old Testaments, but rejected from the Hebrew Bible as used by Jews and some Protestants.
This Hebrew Bible book often has a deuterocanonical substory, about Bel and the dragon, excised. Its title figure interprets the “writing on the wall” at Belshazzar’s feast after Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego are thrown in a fire.
One objection to deuterocanonical texts is that they’re written in Greek, not Hebrew, much like these New Testament narratives written by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
deuterocanonical books
Book of Daniel
the Four Gospels [or evangelion] &lt;MPG/MJ&gt;
This denomination believes their namesake Book was revealed to Joseph Smith in 1830 in the form of golden plates. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian offshoot centered in Salt Lake City, Utah, which officially banned polygamy in 1890.
It is the norm for nineteen-year-old Mormon males to undertake this task for two years after receiving the title of Elder in the Melchizedek priesthood and intensely studying another language.
In the Book of Mormon, this Christian people of the Americas is wiped out by the godless Lamanites. Their name reflects descent from a brother of Laman with four namesake books within the Book of Mormon.
Mormons [or Mormonism; or LDS Church; or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints]
go on mission abroad [or serve as a missionary or close equivalents; prompt “baptizing people” or answers like that]
Nephites [or sons of Nephi] &lt;MJ&gt;
Since they believe that the one god Bondye is distant, adherents of this religion worship intermediary spirits called <em>loa</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this religion derived from African traditions. It’s adhered to by some slaves’ descendants in Haiti and Louisiana, where it inspires confused people to make up exaggerated stories about magical dolls.
Voodoo is this type of religion which blends previous traditions – in this case, traditional African beliefs and Catholic saint veneration.
Voodoo, like Santería, descends largely from the beliefs of this people, who believe in the supreme god Oludumare and spirits called orishas.
voodoo [or vodoun]
syncretism [or syncretic faith]
Yoruba people &lt;MJ&gt;
This tradition believes in a principle of <em>wu wei,</em> or knowing when to act by way of inaction. For 10 points each:
Name this Eastern religion, whose revered founders include Laozi. It popularized the yin-yang symbol and its believers adhere to “The Way.”
Taoism does have spiritual beings and gods, like this group below the Jade Emperor and the Three Pure Ones. Each carries a directly-associated object such as Li’s iron crutch or the sword on Lu Dongbin’s back.
This other Chinese tradition includes a sense of relational compassion called ren among its cardinal moral concepts. Its namesake sage urged filial piety over spirituality in his Analects.
Taoism [or Daoism]
Eight Immortals [or Eight Genies; or Ba Xian; or Pa Hsien]
Confucianism &lt;MPG&gt;
Nichiren and Pure Land are two sects of this religion. For 10 points each:
Identify this religion, whose two major sects are Theravada and Mahayana, and which was founded in India by its namesake enlightened sage between the 4th and 6th centuries BC.
The phrase “the Buddha” usually refers to this founder of Buddhism, a prince who renounced his privilege to attain nirvana beneath the Bodhi tree and teach the Four Noble Truths. He is not the fat Buddha.
The first of the Four Noble truths equates all life with this Pali-language state often translated as “suffering”.
Buddhism
Siddhartha Gautama [or Shakyamuni]
dukkha &lt;MPG&gt;
When this child’s birth was promised by God, his ninety-year-old mother laughed, but sure enough she bore him. For 10 points each:
Name this second Jewish patriarch, the only son of Abraham and Sarah. As a boy, God almost forced Abraham to sacrifice him in order to test Abraham’s loyalty.
This hairy elder son of Isaac was the forefather of the Edomites, who destroyed the First Temple. He traded his birthright to his twin brother Jacob in exchange for lentil stew.
This brother of Rebecca was visited by Isaac’s steward Eliezer to obtain Rebecca as a wife for Isaac. Later, this man tricked Jacob into working for this man for fourteen years rather than seven to marry his intended wife Rachel.
Isaac [or Yitzchak]
Esau [or Esav]
Laban [or Lavan] &lt;MHH&gt;
Name these Catholic saints who still have an impact on today’s Catholics, for 10 points each. Common names are acceptable.
The Jesuit order was founded by this Spanish saint, who wrote the meditative Spiritual Exercises. He shares his name with an earlier saint from Antioch who got mauled by Roman lions.
This Spanish-born patron of astronomers is the founder and common-namesake of the Order of Preachers, who wear black cloaks over white habits. The Rosary is attributed to a revelation he got from Mary.
The Salesian order was named for St. Francis de Sales and founded by this 19th-century Italian saint, whose “preventive system” of youth education leads him to be the patron saint of editors and schoolchildren.
Saint Ignatius of Loyola [accept either underlined part]
Saint Dominic of Osma [or Dominic Felix de Guzmán; or Santo Domingo Félix de Guzmán]
Saint John Bosco, Father and Teacher of Youth [or Saint Don Bosco; prompt “Saint John”] &lt;MPG&gt;
This collection of writings is found on a double scroll in almost every synagogue, and consists of the books from Genesis to Deuteronomy. For 10 points each:
Give the collective name for the first five books of the Hebrew Bible, which Jews believe to have been revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai.
This other central Jewish text is separated into the Mishnah and the Gemara. It consists largely of rabbinic law and interpretations of the Torah.
These rabbinical stories, analyses, and popular mythologies based on the Hebrew Bible can be divided into halakhic and aggadic types. In a common one, Moses developed his stutter because he ate a hot coal as a baby.
Torah [or Pentateuch; prompt “Five Books of Moses;” prompt “chumash”]
Talmud [prompt “Shas” or “shisha sedarim”]
midrashim &lt;MHH&gt;
This book contains the Shema, a phrase recited in Jewish prayer services. For 10 points each:
Name this fifth book of the Torah, which contains speeches given before the entry of the Jews into the Promised Land. Its Hebrew name means "these are the words" and  it puts forth many of the Torah's laws.
] The speeches in Deuteronomy were given by this figure, who battled with the Amalekites along with Joshua and his brother Aaron. He led the Jews on the Exodus and received the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai.
] Joshua was one of these Hebrew leaders, along with figures like Gideon and Jephthah, who came up with the original shibboleth. Deborah was the only female one of these leaders.
Book of Deuteronomy [accept Devarim or Eleh ha-devarim]
Moses [accept Moshe]
Judges [or Shoftim]
Answer some questions about Islamic mysticism, for 10 points each:
Practitioners of this form of Islam often perform dhikr, the repeating of the name of God. Its many schools span  the entire Muslim world, and its followers are sometimes called dervishes.
The Mevlevi order of Sufism practices this as a form of Sama, or observance of dhikr. Sufis in the Western  world are often known for performing this action, which resembles the motion of a dreidel.
The Mevlevi order is most prominent in this country, where it was founded by the Sufi mystic Rumi. Along  with Syria, this country is also home to the Alevi sect, and its government is notably secular.
Sufism [accept tasawwuf]
whirling [accept spinning]
Republic of Turkey
This book contains the text of the Magnificat hymn. For 10 points each:
Name this Synoptic Gospel that shares much of its content with that of Mark, and which is the third of the  canonical gospels. It also contains the story of the Good Samaritan.
The Gospel of Luke contains this statement, that one should do unto others what he would have others do unto  him.
Biblical scholars believe that the Book of Luke shares its authorship with this book, which begins with the  Ascension and covers events like the Pentecost and the liberation of St. Peter.
Gospel According to Luke [accept Gospel of Luke]
the golden rule
The Acts of the Apostles
1. Answer these questions about vertical objects used to venerate divine beings in Eastern religions, for 10 points  each.
These multi-story, multi-roofed towers are commonly built to serve as Buddhist temples in China and Japan.
This Hindu destroyer god with a third eye can be worshipped by pouring perfume or honey onto a stone stump  called a linga.
In the Buddhist tradition, this Sanskrit term denotes tall stone mounds with a rounded top, which are used to  store relics or mark holy sites.
pagodas [or tǎ; or buttō; or tōba]
Shiva [or Shiv; prompt on "Neelakantha" or "Nataraja"]
stupas [there are a bunch of alternate names for these but they aren't the Sanskrit name]
1. Answer these questions about vertical objects used to venerate divine beings in Eastern religions, for 10 points  each.
These multi-story, multi-roofed towers are commonly built to serve as Buddhist temples in China and Japan.
This Hindu destroyer god with a third eye can be worshipped by pouring perfume or honey onto a stone stump  called a linga.
In the Buddhist tradition, this Sanskrit term denotes tall stone mounds with a rounded top, which are used to  store relics or mark holy sites.
pagodas [or tǎ; or buttō; or tōba]
Shiva [or Shiv; prompt on "Neelakantha" or "Nataraja"]
stupas [there are a bunch of alternate names for these but they aren't the Sanskrit name]
Many Japanese identify themselves as members of multiple religions. Answer some questions about those religions, for 10 points each.
This religion, native to Japan, is polytheistic, and incorporates the veneration of spirits known as kami. Holy places in this religion include shrines like Kizomizu, and feature tori gates. Deities venerated in this religion include Susanoo and Ame-no-Uzume.
Along with Shinto, this branch of Buddhism plays a major role in Japanese culture. Unlike its "smaller vehicle" counterpart, adherents of this branch venerate bodhisattvas.
Though Hirohito was forced to repudiate his belief in his own divinity as part of the ningen-sengen, prior Japanese emperors claimed divine descent by virtue of descent from this first emperor, who himself was believed to be a direct descendant of Amaterasu.
Shinto [or kami-no-michi]
Mahayana Buddhism
Emperor Jimmu [or Wakamikenu-no-Mikoto; or Sano-no-Mikoto; or Kamuyamato Iwarebiko]
Name some Biblical Judges, for 10 points each.
This Judge joined forces with the Israelite general Barak to take down the Canaanite general Sisera in battle. The writer of a namesake "song," she gave judgments under a palm tree and was female.
This Nazirite Judge told Delilah, a Philistine spy, that his hair was the source of his prodigious strength; she then subsequently betrayed him by shaving his head.
After the Israelites turned to idol worship following Deborah's victory, God picked this tribesman of Manasseh and son of Joash, to destroy the idols, free the Israelites from pagan worship, and conscript an army to fight the Midianites. After that victory, Israel experienced a 40-year peace.
Deborah
Samson
Gideon
Many Japanese identify themselves as members of multiple religions. Answer some questions about those religions, for 10 points each.
This religion, native to Japan, is polytheistic, and incorporates the veneration of spirits known as kami. Holy places in this religion include shrines like Kizomizu, and feature tori gates. Deities venerated in this religion include Susanoo and Ame-no-Uzume.
Along with Shinto, this branch of Buddhism plays a major role in Japanese culture. Unlike its "smaller vehicle" counterpart, adherents of this branch venerate bodhisattvas.
Though Hirohito was forced to repudiate his belief in his own divinity as part of the ningen-sengen, prior Japanese emperors claimed divine descent by virtue of descent from this first emperor, who himself was believed to be a direct descendant of Amaterasu.
Shinto [or kami-no-michi]
Mahayana Buddhism
Emperor Jimmu [or Wakamikenu-no-Mikoto; or Sano-no-Mikoto; or Kamuyamato Iwarebiko]
