A 19th-century figure with this name, who is depicted as a bearded man wearing a Sufi-style white robe and cap, delivered sermons on the nature of Malik, or the “Master,” in the town of Shirdi. For 10 points each:
Give this name. The Hard Rock Café took its motto “love all, serve all” from a maxim of a 20th-century figure of this name who founded an āshram in his hometown of Puttaparthi (“POO-tuh-par-thee”).
One of Sathya Sai Baba’s many purported miracles was the spontaneous generation of this substance. This substance is poured into bodies of water after the final samskāra, Antyesti (“unt-YAY-shtee”), in which it is generated through cremation.
For most of his adult life, Shirdi Sai Baba lived in one of these places. In 1992, one of these places in Uttar Pradesh was ransacked by kar sevaks (“kar SAY-vucks”) organized by the Vishva Hindu Parishad.
Sai Baba (“sye BAH-buh”) [or Shirdi Sai Baba; or Śrī Sathya Sai Baba; prompt on Sai; prompt on Baba]
ash [or ashes; or vibhūti; or bhasma; or udi; prompt on powder]
mosques [or masjid; accept Babri Masjid] &lt;AP, Religion: Hinduism&gt;
<em>Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully.</em> Prior to the church’s adoption of this term, it was used by the Sabellians to describe the belief that there are three distinct modes of God. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek term that Athanasius of Alexandria successfully argued should be part of the Nicene Creed to describe the fact that the Father and the Son are the same substance.
Athanasius of Alexandria petitioned for the inclusion of the term homoousios in the Nicene Creed because of his feud with this Libyan who preached that Christ was subordinate to God.
This Cappadocian Father, the brother of Saint Basil the Great, defended the homoousion from Aristotelian criticism in his book Against Eunomius. He argued in favor of universalism, the view that God will save all people.
homoousios (“ho-mo-OO-see-os”) [accept word forms like homoousion; do not accept or prompt on “homoiousios”]
Arius
Gregory of Nyssa [prompt on Gregory] &lt;CK, Religion: Christianity&gt;
The mantra <em>namu myōhō renge kyō</em> (“nahm MYO-ho REN-gay kyo”) has been popularized in the West due in part to the efforts of this group. For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist group of Japanese origin, an offshoot of Nichiren Buddhism. It is known for its practice of proselytization and its assertion of religious exclusivity.
Nichiren Buddhism is part of the Mahayana, but Theravada Buddhism has also reached the West through the vipassanā form of this practice. The “transcendental” form of this practice became popular in the West in the 1960s.
Transcendental Meditation was created by this Indian religious leader. The Beatles traveled to India in 1968 to study under this man.
Sōka Gakkai International [or SGI; prompt on Sōka]
meditation [or mindfulness]
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi [or Mahesh Prasad Varma] &lt;NC, Religion: Buddhism&gt;
This prayer consists of twenty <em>rakat</em> and can last two hours or longer, but many congregants leave after eight <em>rakat</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this optional prayer that is recited after the night-time isha prayer during the month of Ramadan.
Attendance at tarāwīh prayers jumps on odd-numbered nights in the last ten days of Ramadan, because any of those dates could be this particular night. Gabriel first revealed the Qur’an to Muhammad on this night.
Because it is customary to complete the whole Qur’an during tarawih prayers over the course of each Ramadan, congregations must hire a man with this title. Men with this title have memorized the Qur’an in its entirety.
salāt al-tarāwīh [or taravih; or tarabih]
Laylat al-Qadr [or Night of Power]
hāfiz [or huffāz] &lt;NC, Religion: Islam&gt;
These areas are often bounded by wires or ropes, and there has been persistent debate about the propriety of establishing them in New York City. For 10 points each:
Name these enclosed areas within which items may be carried on the Sabbath without violating the Talmud.
Arguments about whether to establish eruvin in Brooklyn frequently refer to this work, which sets out conditions for the creation of an eruv. This book by Joseph Karo, whose title literally means “Set Table,” is the most authoritative compilation of Jewish law.
The Shulchan Aruch reflects Sephardic practice, and so this Jewish group uses Moses Isserles’s (“ISS-er-liss’s”) gloss alongside it to reflect its own customs. Most American Jews are part of this group, which is made up of Jews of central and eastern European descent.
eruv (“AY-roov”) [or eruvin; or eruvim]
Shulchan Aruch (“shool-KHAN ah-ROOKH”) [or Shulhan Aruch]
Ashkenazi Jews [or Ashkenazim] &lt;NC, Religion: Judaism&gt;
<em>Description acceptable</em>. A hadith found in <em>Ṣaḥīḥ Muslim</em> narrates how Muhammad likened one of these specific practices to picking up a piece of burning coal. For 10 points each:
Name these two related practices. The mention of adornments in Sura 43, az-Zukhruf, is typically cited as the reason for forbidding these practices among men, as they are considered to be strictly feminine.
By not wearing gold and silk, men are following the set of customs labeled by this term. This term encompasses the life practices of Muhammad, including eating with the right hand and growing a beard. This term also denotes prayers that are optional.
Gender roles in Islam are significant as they relate to the concept of modesty. This Arabic term, which can denote the general concept of modesty, is also used in both Arabic and English to refer to a headscarf worn by women that covers the hair but usually not the face.
wearing gold AND silk [accept descriptions; prompt on wearing jewelry or wearing clothing or equivalents]
sunnah
hijāb &lt;NH, Religion: Islam&gt;
According to legend, this figure died after a rabbi erased a letter written on his forehead to change the word <em>emet</em> (“eh-MET”), meaning “truth,” to <em>met</em>, meaning death. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary clay figure whom the Maharal (“ma-ha-RALL”), Judah Loew (“layv”), created from the Vltava River to protect his congregation from Rudolf II.
According to legend, an angel stopped this man from creating a golem when he was a teenager. This Lithuanian rabbi led the Misnagdim (“meet-nog-DEEM”) who opposed the rise of Hasidism (“HOSS-id-ism”).
Supposedly, you can activate a golem by writing one of these words on a piece of paper and placing it in its mouth. In Jewish belief, seven of these words are so holy that they should never be erased, and one of these words is called the Tetragrammaton because it consists of four letters.
The Golem of Prague [or the golem of the Prague ghetto; prompt on golem by asking “what city did the golem inhabit?”]
the Vilna Gaon (“gah-OWN”) [or HaGra; or Elijah ben Solomon Zalman; prompt on partial answer]
names of God [prompt on partial answer] &lt;CK, Religion: Judaism&gt;
This phrase was adopted in 2011 for use in English-language services by the Roman Catholic Church. For 10 points each:
Give this four-word set response to “the Lord be with you.” It replaced the formerly used phrase “and also with you.” An exact answer is required.
This ancient Syriac-language translation of the Bible uses the normally feminine noun ruha for the Holy Spirit. This is the standard translation used by the Church of the East and its descendants.
Although contemporary English translations of the Bible generally use the term “Holy Spirit,” older translations often use this other name for the third person of the Trinity. This term has fallen out of favor because it suggests a dead person rather than a spirit.
“and with your spirit”
Peshitta (“p’sheet-TAW”)
Holy Ghost &lt;NC, Religion: Christianity&gt;
This enemy of Islam is directly mentioned in Sura 111, al-Masad. For 10 points each:
Name this uncle of Muhammad. The Qur’an states that he “shall enter a blazing fire” and that “upon [his wife’s] neck is a rope of palm fiber.”
Muhammad and Abu Lahab both belonged to this Mecca-based tribe, the namesake of Sura 106. According to hadith, the caliph must belong to this tribe.
Abu Lahab died after being hit over the head with a tentpole at this place, which is located between the hills of Safa and Marwah.
Abu Lahab
Quraysh
well of Zamzam &lt;NC, Religion: Islam&gt;
According to tradition, a saint based on this historical figure converted to Christianity despite the opposition of his father under the guidance of his teacher, Saint Barlaam. For 10 points each:
Name this historical figure who is venerated in many Christian denominations as Saint Josaphat.
Some Muslims argue that the Buddha was one of these people. According to one hadith, there are 124,000 of these people, the first of whom was Adam and the last of whom was Muhammad.
Writings by these two religious figures in praise of the Buddha are compiled in the collection “Buddha, Krishna, Zoroaster and Related Subjects.” These two men, the son and great-grandson of Bahá’u’lláh, were the last two Bahá’í leaders before the establishment of the Universal House of Justice.
Buddha [or Siddhartha Gautama]
prophets [or nabiyyūn or ’anbiyā’]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá AND Shoghi Effendi [accept in any order] &lt;NC, Religion: Other&gt;
These bills, which may carry images of the Jade Emperor, are often denominated in dollars even in countries where the dollar is not legal tender. For 10 points each:
Name this type of imitation money that is designed to be burned at East Asian funerals.
This fragrant substance is burned in religious ceremonies in many cultures. In East Asia, this substance is often burned in the form of joss sticks.
Joss sticks are common offerings at this Buddhist ceremony, which commemorates the birthday of the Buddha.
joss paper [or hell money or ghost money or spirit money; accept synonyms in place of “money”]
incense
Vesak (“vay-SAHK”) [or Vesākha or Vaiśākha or Buddha Jayanti or Buddha Purnima or Fodan or Hanamatsuri or Phật Đản; do not accept or prompt on “Vaisakhi”] &lt;NC, Religion: Buddhism&gt;
Mark Driscoll, who has received attention as a “postmodern” evangelical preacher, was raised outside this city. For 10 points each:
Name this US city. Driscoll led the Mars Hill megachurch based in this city until 2014, when he was forced to resign amid a series of scandals.
Driscoll is a prominent advocate of this theological position, which states that men and women are equivalent in value, but not equal because they have separate roles and duties.
This religious denomination embraces complementarianism to the extent of holding that God has a wife, called the Heavenly Mother. This American religious denomination believes in the doctrine of eternal marriage, and its weddings are held at temples and can be attended only by church members.
Seattle
complementarianism [or word forms]
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints [or LDS or Mormon Church or Mormonism] &lt;NC, Religion: Christianity&gt;
This text replaces the Angelus in the liturgy during the Easter season until Pentecost. For 10 points each:
Name this Marian antiphon whose fourth line was legendarily added by Pope Gregory the Great. It remarks “The Son you merited to bear, alleluia, / Has risen as he said, alleluia.”
Marian hymns in Eastern Christianity are named for this Greek title given to Mary at the Council of Ephesus. This title literally means “bearer of God,” but in the West it was generally translated to mean “mother of God.”
A more famous Marian hymn, Salve Regina, is said at the end of this set of prayers centered around sets of mysteries. People typically perform this prayer with a crucifix attached to a string of beads.
Regina Caeli (“ray-JEE-na CHEL-ee”)
theotokos
Holy Rosary [or rosarium] &lt;NH, Religion: Christianity&gt;
Much of our information on this group comes from Photios I, who likely just made stuff up. For 10 points each:
Name this shadowy dualist sect. A chapter of Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire claims that this doctrine’s spread to the Bogomils, then the Waldensians, and finally the Cathars, somehow ended up planting the seeds of the Reformation.
Gibbon points out that the Paulicians, like many Reformers, held an intense form of this belief, which was promoted by Leo IV, but briefly ended by his wife Irene. This belief stems from the commandment against graven images.
The Paulicians also seem to have subscribed to this heretical belief, which holds that Jesus was only divine and that his human form was an illusion.
Paulicianism
iconoclasm
docetism [accept word forms like docetist] &lt;Religion&gt;
This tradition’s Prabhākara [pruh-BAH-kuh-ruh] school held that only sentences, and not individual words, can have semantic meaning. For 10 points each:
Name this branch of Hindu philosophy founded by Jaimini. Unlike another brand of Hindu thought, it focused on the earlier Vedas and not the Upanishads.
The Upanishads were the focus of this school of Hindu thought, which is sometimes called Uttara-Mīmāmsā. The Brahma Sutras are a major text for this school.
Mimamsa was focused on the understanding of this core concept of Hinduism and Buddhism, which can be translated as both “cosmic/divine law” and “appropriate conduct.”
Pūrva-Mīmāmsā
Vedānta
dharma &lt;Religion&gt;
This man called upon all “Asiatic” peoples to unite, and claimed to have been recognized as divine by an Egyptian priest. For 10 points each:
Name this man who founded the Canaanite Temple in Newark, New Jersey. After moving to Chicago, he founded another institution preaching to the descendents of the Moabites.
Noble Drew founded this religious institution, considered by some to be the first Islamic organization in America. Its name derives in part from its belief that all black people in America were of Moroccan descent.
The mysterious Wallace Fard Muhammad eventually left Moorish Science to found this religious movement, which was later led by Elijah Muhammad.
Noble Drew Ali [or Timothy Drew]
Moorish Science Temple of America
Nation of Islam &lt;Religion&gt;
This text was revived thanks to a “royal” interpretation by Swami Vivekananda. For 10 points each:
Name this text attributed to Patanjali, which classifies eight “limbs” of the title practice. It is the foundational text of a school of thought that largely sprang from the Samkhya school.
This man, who died in 2014, adopted principles from the Yoga Sutras in his bestseller Light on Yoga. This man’s namesake style of yoga was popularized thanks to the support of violinist Yehudi Menuhin.
Iyengar yoga and other forms of hatha yoga emphasize pranayama, or controlling this bodily action. Rhythmical control of this bodily process is often used to promote mindfulness in meditation.
Yoga Sutras
B.K.S. Iyengar [or Bellur Krishnamachar Sundararaja Iyengar]
breathing [or respiration] &lt;Religion&gt;
These items are used in a namesake “Service” conducted after the betrothal is sealed by exchanging rings three times. For 10 points each:
Name these symbolic objects that sometimes name the wedding ceremony in Greek Orthodox churches.
While crowned, the betrothed process around a table three times in a ritual called this man’s “Dance.” This prophet relays the instruction of a “voice in the wilderness” to “make straight in the desert a highway for our God.”
As in many Christian traditions, the Gospel reading at an Orthodox wedding often retells the first miracle of Jesus, which occurred at a Wedding in this place.
wedding crowns [or stefana]
Dance of Isaiah
Wedding at Cana &lt;Religion&gt;
This set of prayers follows the Japji and the So Dar as the final part of the Adi Granth Sahib’s pre-<em>raga</em> introductory section. For 10 points each:
Name this set of hymns recited by Sikhs at bedtime, after the evening recitation of the Rehras.
Another bedtime prayer is this excerpt from Deuteronomy that observant Jews also recite upon waking up and as their last words.
Upon waking up and going to bed, Jains often recite the Namōkāra mantra, which consists of bowing to this number of groups of holy figures. Jain ethics centers on this number of “vows,” including ahimsa.
Kirtan Sohila
Kriat Sh’ma
five &lt;Religion&gt;
Most Shi’a Muslims attribute this quality to imams on the basis of the Verse of Purification. For 10 points each:
Name this status of infallibility that some Muslims attribute to prophets and angels.
The Verse of Purification more directly applies to this group, who, along with the Quran, are one of the “Two Weighty Things.” This group was even closer to Muhammad than the sahabah.
The Verse of Purification is taken from a sura that also decries the “confederates” at this battle, in which the early Muslims held off a siege of Medina using the namesake defensive structure.
‘ismah
Ahl al-Bayt [accept People of the House; accept Ahl al-Kisa’ or People of the Cloak or People of the Mantle; prompt on answers like Muhammad’s family by asking “What’s the specific term?”]
Battle of the Trench [or Ghazwat al-Khandaq] &lt;Religion&gt;
The first section of this sura declares “[It is as if] We had placed [iron] collars around their necks, right up to their chins so that their heads are forced up,” before giving a parable about three messengers. For 10 points each:
Name this “heart of the Quran,” a Meccan sura that emphasizes that the Quran is a divine revelation and not poetry written by Muhammad. The last third of this mysteriously-named sura defends the Resurrection of the body.
At the end of Ya-Sin’s parable, the third messenger is told to “Enter” one of these places. The Song of Solomon declares that one of these places “inclosed” is “my sister, my spouse.”
Sura Ya-Sin is one of the four suras that are named for their muqatta'at, which are composed of these things. In Judaism, gematria assigns a number to each of these things.
Sura Ya-Sin [or Sura 36]
gardens [prompt on Paradise; prompt on fountains by asking “Where is the fountain?”]
letters &lt;Religion&gt;
Although the numbering of these events is highly disputed, it’s usually deduced that the second or third of them resulted in a schism with the Sthavira nikāya. For 10 points each:
Name these events, the most recent one of which occured in the 1950s in Yangon. Maha Kashyapa convened the first of these events in Rajagrha around 400 BC.
The first Buddhist council is usually credited with codifying the Vinaya, which forms the first section of this massive set of texts. This set of texts includes the Dhammapada within its Khuddaka Nikaya subdivision.
For the vast majority of scholars, the standard modern edition of the Tripitaka is this Japanese edition begun in 1924. This edition also includes about 20 volumes of commentaries and other East Asian Buddhist literature.
Buddhist Councils [or sangiti; prompt on partial answer, but don’t accept synonyms]
Tripitaka [or Tipitaka; accept Pali Canon]
Taishō Tripitaka [accept any answer including the word Taishō, e.g. Taishō Canon]
This term is often compared to the Algonquin <em>Manitu</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this Lakota term used to refer to the sacred, supernatural, or holy, which is often applied to medicine men. This word is paired with “tanka” or “Great” in the Lakota name of the so-called “Great Spirit.”
This Oglala man, widely considered a wicasa wakan, converted to Catholicism in 1904 before describing traditional Lakota religious practices to John Neihardt, who turned those conversations into a book titled [This Man] Speaks.
In Black Elk’s vision, he saw a host of Beings named for this natural phenomenon. Many Native American cultures believe in an enormous bird that controls this phenomenon.
wakan [accept wakan tanka]
Black Elk [or Hehaka Sapa; accept Black Elk Speaks]
thunder [accept Thunderbird] &lt;Religion&gt;
In her book Adam, Eve, and the Serpent, this scholar traced how the equation of sex with sin and the belief in the inferiority of women shifted from fringe to mainstream views under the teachings of Augustine. For 10 points each:
Name this Princeton religious historian best known for her 1979 introduction to the manuscripts unearthed at the Nag Hammadi library, titled The Gnostic Gospels.
In The Gnostic Gospels, Pagels examines how Jesus says of Mary: “I myself shall lead her in order to make her male,” in a gospel attributed to this apostle, whom tradition holds sailed to India to spread the Christian faith.
The Nag Hammadi library also contains a poem spoken by a feminine power that declares: “I am war and peace” and “I am the whore and the holy one,” which is titled for this natural phenomenon, “perfect mind.”
Elaine Pagels
Thomas the Apostle [or Doubting Thomas; or Thoma Shila]
thunder
This festival includes processions with the Nishan Sahib flag. For 10 points each:
Name this New Year’s festival. The Khalsa was created on this day in 1699.
The Khalsa was created by this last human Sikh guru, who also instituted the Five Ks.
Gobind Singh also gave a Sikh spin to this other festival, keeping its use of gulal. Participants in this festival often shout obscenities and drink an intoxicating, marijuana-based drink called bhang.
Vaisakhi [or Baisakhi; do not accept or prompt on “Vesak”]
Guru Gobind Singh [do not accept or prompt on “Hargobind”]
Holi [accept Hola Mohalla] &lt;Religion&gt;
In July 2018, the head of this church was forced to publicly display its relic of the Spear of Longinus, in order to quash rumors that he had sold it. For 10 points each:
Name this church led from Ejmiadzin Cathedral, whose patron saints are the Apostles Bartholomew and Thaddeus.
The leader of the Armenian Church is given this title, which is added to “patriarch” in the titles of leaders of the Church of the East.
Western observers have often tried to brand the Armenian Church as following this christological doctrine, which was conclusively rejected at the Council of Chalcedon. Eutyches advocated for this doctrine by claiming that Christ’s human nature dissolved in his divine nature “like a drop of honey in the sea,” leaving only one nature behind.
Armenian Apostolic Church [accept Armenian Orthodox Church, prompt on Gregorian Church]
Catholicos of All Armenians [accept Catholicoi]
monophysitism [accept monophysite] &lt;Religion&gt;
This festival includes processions with the Nishan Sahib flag. For 10 points each:
Name this New Year’s festival. The Khalsa was created on this day in 1699.
The Khalsa was created by this last human Sikh guru, who also instituted the Five Ks.
Gobind Singh also gave a Sikh spin to this other festival, keeping its use of gulal. Participants in this festival often shout obscenities and drink an intoxicating, marijuana-based drink called bhang.
Vaisakhi [or Baisakhi; do not accept or prompt on “Vesak”]
Guru Gobind Singh [do not accept or prompt on “Hargobind”]
Holi [accept Hola Mohalla] &lt;Religion&gt;
In the King James Version, the first verse of the <em>Miserere</em>, or Psalm 51, asks God to have mercy according to <em>this</em> aspect of himself. For 10 points each:
Name this English word that was invented to translate the Hebrew word chesed [HESS-edd]. Luckily, nobody’s tried to translate the refrain “ki l’olam chasdo” [kee leh-oh-LOM hoss-DOH] from Psalm 136 using this word, instead usually translating chesed as “mercy.”
An even more blatant neologism is the transliteration “sabaoth” for the Hebrew tz’vaot [tzeh-vah-OAT], which refers to “hosts,” often of these beings. In the Jewish Kedushah [keh-doo-SHAH], translated as the Christian Sanctus, the congregation joins in with these beings to sing “Holy, Holy, Holy.”
We get the English “Jehovah” from a mispronounced Latin transliteration of “yod hey vav hey,” which is pronounced “Adonai” in liturgical contexts. Outside of prayer, Jews pronounce “yod hey vav hey,” using this other Hebrew word, which is often abbreviated by a single Hebrew letter followed by an apostrophe.
lovingkindness
angels [or archangels; accept seraphim or sephirot]
HaShem &lt;Religion&gt;
Russian Orthodox Christians weave pussy willow branches into crosses in preparation for this day. For 10 points each:
Identify this moveable feast day, historically celebrated in Russia by the Patriarch of Moscow riding on a horse with its rein held by the Tsar, in reenactment of Christ’s entry into Jerusalem.
Boys would follow the tsar and patriarch shouting this word, with which the crowds in Jerusalem honor “the son of David” in Matthew, Mark, and John. In the Mass, a sentence beginning with this word is said both before and after the Benedictus.
Eastern Orthodox Christians plait willow or palm crosses on the day before Palm Sunday, which is named for this man. In Greece and Cyprus, likenesses of him are made from sweet bread and eaten on that Saturday.
Palm Sunday
Hosanna [or Osanna]
Lazarus of Bethany [or Saint Lazarus; or Lazarus of the Four Days] &lt;Religion&gt;
The emblem of this organization features a gigantic swan representing the Supreme Self with a rising sun, indicating <em>jnana</em>, in the background. For 10 points each:
Name this Advaita Vedanta organization that carries out philanthropic and educational work across the world. Like a monastic order called the “Math,” it was founded by the mystic who taught Vivekananda.
The philanthropic activities of the Ramakrishna Mission are tied to this teaching of Ramakrishna’s, which declares that God can be found in every living being, even the poor and weak. Give either the original Sanskrit phrase or the rhyming English translation.
This honorific, which is derived from a Sanskrit word meaning “he who is one with the self” and is sometimes abbreviated “sw,” is bestowed upon Hindu monastic leaders such as Vivekananda.
Ramakrishna Mission [accept answers that drop the second “a” in “Ramakrishna,” such as Ramkrishna Mission]
jiva is Shiva [or jatra jiv tatra Shiv]
swami [accept swami Vivekananda] &lt;Religion&gt;
In <em>The New Testament and the People of God</em>, this scholar set forth a critical-realist epistemology that engages the Bible as both history and theology. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary Anglican theologian who depicted Jesus as just another first-century Apocalyptic Jewish prophet in Jesus and the Victory of God, the second volume of his massive Christian Origins and the Question of God.
N.T. Wright has been a particularly forceful advocate of the “New Perspective” on this first-century theologian, who preached salvation by faith in numerous New Testament Epistles.
Some conservatives have seen Wright’s reading of Paul as a denial of the “penal substitution” theory of this process. That theory stems from Anselm’s “satisfaction” theory of this process, which is his answer to the title question of Cur Deus Homo or Why God Became Man.
N.T. Wright [or Nicholas Thomas Wright]
Paul [accept Saul of Tarsus; accept New Perspective on Paul]
atonement [accept any answer that indicates forgiveness of sins or Christ dying for our sins; prompt on salvation by asking “What’s the process that makes salvation possible?”] &lt;Religion&gt;
In his book <em>Against the Valentinians</em>, Tertullian groups the first eight of these entities together as the Ogdoad. For 10 points each:
Identify these emanations of God in various Gnostic traditions, which the Valentinians believed came in male/female pairs known as syzygies.
In the Valentinian conception, the Old Testament God was born as a result of this fallen aeon trying to create an emanation without her male counterpart. This soul-like being takes her name from the Greek word for wisdom.
A being called Horos separates the fallen aeons, or Hysterema, from this combined set of emanations in Gnostic theology. In more sane Christian theology, this term from the New Testament denotes the “fullness” of Christ’s divinity.
aeons
Sophia
pleroma &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
This theologian dubbed the proto-Creeds of his time the “Rule of Truth” or “Rule of Faith.” For 10 points each:
Name this theologian who was the first to emphasize all four gospels as equal sources of scriptural authority. He claimed that Christ’s Incarnation “sums up” or “recapitulates” the rest of human Creation.
Irenaeus is best-known as an opponent of this movement, whose modern name he coined. Thinkers influenced by this movement typically distinguished between a transcendent, true God, and the actual creator of the universe
Irenaeus was much more forgiving toward the Quartodecimans, who insisted on celebrating this Christian holiday on the 14th of Nisan [nee-SAHN] to coincide with Passover.
Saint Irenaeus
Gnosticism
Easter [or Pascha] &lt;Religion&gt;
In <em>The New Testament and the People of God</em>, this scholar set forth a critical-realist epistemology that engages the Bible as both history and theology. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary Anglican theologian who depicted Jesus as just another first-century Apocalyptic Jewish prophet in Jesus and the Victory of God, the second volume of his massive Christian Origins and the Question of God.
N.T. Wright has been a particularly forceful advocate of the “New Perspective” on this first-century theologian, who preached salvation by faith in numerous New Testament Epistles.
Some conservatives have seen Wright’s reading of Paul as a denial of the “penal substitution” theory of this process. That theory stems from Anselm’s “satisfaction” theory of this process, which is his answer to the title question of Cur Deus Homo or Why God Became Man.
N.T. Wright [or Nicholas Thomas Wright]
Paul [accept Saul of Tarsus; accept New Perspective on Paul]
atonement [accept any answer that indicates forgiveness of sins or Christ dying for our sins; prompt on salvation by asking “What’s the process that makes salvation possible?”] &lt;Religion&gt;
In his book <em>Against the Valentinians</em>, Tertullian groups the first eight of these entities together as the Ogdoad. For 10 points each:
Identify these emanations of God in various Gnostic traditions, which the Valentinians believed came in male/female pairs known as syzygies.
In the Valentinian conception, the Old Testament God was born as a result of this fallen aeon trying to create an emanation without her male counterpart. This soul-like being takes her name from the Greek word for wisdom.
A being called Horos separates the fallen aeons, or Hysterema, from this combined set of emanations in Gnostic theology. In more sane Christian theology, this term from the New Testament denotes the “fullness” of Christ’s divinity.
aeons
Sophia
pleroma &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
This theologian dubbed the proto-Creeds of his time the “Rule of Truth” or “Rule of Faith.” For 10 points each:
Name this theologian who was the first to emphasize all four gospels as equal sources of scriptural authority. He claimed that Christ’s Incarnation “sums up” or “recapitulates” the rest of human Creation.
Irenaeus is best-known as an opponent of this movement, whose modern name he coined. Thinkers influenced by this movement typically distinguished between a transcendent, true God, and the actual creator of the universe
Irenaeus was much more forgiving toward the Quartodecimans, who insisted on celebrating this Christian holiday on the 14th of Nisan [nee-SAHN] to coincide with Passover.
Saint Irenaeus
Gnosticism
Easter [or Pascha] &lt;Religion&gt;
A defence of this practice takes up much of Book 5 of the <em>Denkart</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, called xwedodah in Zoroastrianism. In the 3rd century AD, it was promoted amongst the Sasanian royalty by high priests like Kartir.
Kartir was one of the staunchest proponents of Mazdaist Zoroastrianism, which was opposed to the brand of Zoroastrianism centering on this unitary god of infinite time.
Even within this man’s lifetime, Zurvan was syncretized with the “Father of Greatness” he described. Kartir was instrumental in the execution of this Persian in 274 AD.
next-of-kin marriage [accept incestuous marriage or endogamous marriage; accept more specific answers like mother-son marriage; prompt on partial answer]
Zurvan [accept Zurvanism]
Mani &lt;Religion&gt;
Answer the following about lost mythological cities, for 10 points each.
This Breton town ruled by King Gradlon was destroyed when his wicked daughter Dahut gave the key to the dike holding back the sea to a mysterious knight that may or may not have been the Devil.
The French occultist Alexandre Saint-Yves wrote about the secret world of Agartha, a crystal city accessible only to perfected Christians located in this place. Brinsley Le Poer Trench wrote about UFOs in this location in his 1974 book Secret of the Ages.
The Surat al-Fajr asks readers to remember how Allah dealt with this lost Arabian city. It is often identified with other “Atlantises of the Sand” like Ubar and Ma’rib, and its people may have rejected the prophet Hud.
Ys
core of the Earth [accept inside the Earth or equivalents]
’Iram of the Pillars [accept either underlined portion; also accept ’Iram Dhaat al-‘Imaad; accept any answer that gets across a city possessing, of, or otherwise characterized by pillars or tentpoles; also ‘Aad or al-’Ahqaaf]
According to ibn Arabi, the highest form of this quality, or <em>haqq</em>, allows one to understand the inner substance of the heart to communicate with the angelic world. For 10 points each:
Give this term that in Islamic theology is often translated as “certainty”. Ibn Alawa al-Haddad’s Book of Assistance analogizes this quality to a “power of faith so great” that it becomes a “towering mountain”.
Yaqin is a form of gnosis, or knowing, in this branch of mystical Islam. Its members, the whirling dervishes, often enter a trance-like state through spinning.
According to ibn Arabi, once one reaches the second level of yaqin, they truly understand this aspect of Allah, which is his “oneness” and “singularity”.
yaqin [or yaqeen]
Sufi Islam [or Sufism]
tawhid [or ahadiya or wadiya]
Kefken Island and Hadrianopolis are examples of these sees. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of holy see that only exist in name. This kind of holy see would sometimes see itself get conquered by a polity of infidels, as indicated with the phrase in partibus infidelium.
Every year the Vatican puts out this book, which contains information on every pope, bishopric, and diocese, including “titular” ones. It can be thought of as the directory of the Roman Catholic Church.
Non-titular bishops who retired used to be made into titular bishops, but a change in policy led to them being given this title. This Latin word is also often used in the titles of retired professors.
titular diocese [or titular see]
Annuario Pontificio
emeritus
This concept was championed by the Mu'tazila school of theology, holding that it was possible to discern the ways of God using reason. For 10 points each:
Give this term that literally means "speech" or "discourse" in Arabic. The Jewish philosopher Saadia Gaon's Beliefs and Convictions was an attempt of applying this method to Jewish philosophy.
This book by Maimonides incorporates many kalam methods in its analysis; for example, Maimonides uses a form of kalam to deduce that the world cannot have been eternal.
A method of kalam was used to answer the questions "What degrees of immortality exist?" and "How do the movers of heavenly bodies move them?" in this work written over a 12-year period by Levi Gersonides.
kalam
Guide for the Perplexed [or Moreh Nevukhim]
The Wars of the Lord [or Sefer Milhamot Ha-Shem]
In the text named for this man, this man has a conversation about whether the frame, seat, or draught pole constitute a chariot, leading this man to be told designations are "purely conceptional." For 10 points each:
Name this 2nd-century ruler, who converses with the wise sage Nagasena in a dialogue titled after "The Questions" that are posed to him.
The Questions of Milinda is a Theravada text designed to convert ancient Greeks to this religion. King Kanishka of the Kushans spread it from India to the west.
Give either the Pali or Sanskrit word used to describe those who spoke Greek within India. A king described by this term, Antiochus II, is mentioned in one of the edicts of Ashoka.
Milinda [accept Menander]
Ancient Buddhism [or Buddhist]
yona [or yavana]
Hannah and Andy are a semi-observant Jewish couple who have recently adopted a puppy. For 10 points each:
Their action may, in some ways, be considered a form of this concept of justice with a Hebrew name, commonly used to refer to charity. Hannah and Andy’s volunteer work for a literacy program for refugees at their local synagogue may also be considered a form of this practice.
Since Hannah and Andy are trendy, they will celebrate a Bark Mitzvah for the puppy when it turns this many months old. Traditionally, a Jewish boy celebrates a normal Bar Mitzvah after he turns this number of years old.
Bark Mitzvahs, like Hannah’s and Andy’s, are commonly held around Purim, which falls during this month of the liturgical calendar. Moses is traditionally held to have born and died during this month.
tzedakah
thirteen months/years
Adar
Mahmoud Mohammed Taha was executed in 1985 for teaching that these texts were part of a “second message” that was appropriate for the <em>ummah</em> at one time, but should no longer guide daily life. For 10 points each:
Identify these texts, which form the final division of the iconic Noldeke Chronology. The principle of naskh, or abrogation, has been used to reconcile why these texts are more aggressive and less focused on individual freedom than their counterparts.
The Medinan Suras were revealed after Muhammad had led the first Muslims in this mass exodus from Mecca.
Taha’s execution under Sudanese president Gaafar Nimeiri was likely influenced by Sudan’s membership in this school of Islamic jurisprudence, which particularly venerates the consensus of Medinan citizens. It predominates in Northern Africa.
Medinan Suras [accept anything about the part of the Qur’an revealed in Medina]
Hijra [or Hegira]
The Maliki School
This gathering derives its name from a term for a “pitcher fair.” For 10 points each:
Identify this largest religious gathering in the world, a gigantic Hindu pilgrimage in which hundreds of millions of people gather to bathe in one of several sacred rivers. It was held in Allahabad in 2013.
The most popular river to bathe in during Kumbh Mela is this one, along which the holy city Varanasi lies.
The sacred Ganga and Yamuna rivers supposedly join a mythical, sacred river with this name in Allahabad. A goddess of learning and wisdom with this name is the consort of Brahma.
Kumbh Mela
Ganges [or Ganga]
Saraswati [or Sarasvati]
Answer the following about ancient Celtic religion, for 10 points each.
Ancient Celtic religion was led by these priests, some of which conducted “wicker man” human sacrifices.
The word “druid” takes its name from an Indo-European word for these things, which were the center of Celtic nemeton sites of worship. These things were frequently sacred to Demeter, such as ones destroyed by Erysichthon.
The sacred groves on this island, a druidic stronghold, were destroyed during the invasion of Gaius Suetonius Paulinus before he had to go deal with Boudica’s revolt.
druids [or druits; or druides]
trees [accept thickets or groves; accept oak trees specifically]
Mona [or Anglesey]
The inner sanctuary of this building is referred to as the Holy of Holies. For 10 points each:
Identify this building, the construction of whose first incarnation is credited to Solomon.
The Temple Mount is partly surrounded by this structure, which visitors often slip prayer notes into. This structure’s nickname comes from the mourning of the Temple’s destruction.
This prayer originated as a congregational response when it was said at services at the Temple. Observant Jewish parents traditionally teach their children to say this prayer at night before they go to sleep.
The Temple in Jerusalem [or Bet haMikdash; or Beit al-Quds]
Western Wall [or Wailing Wall]
Shema Yisrael [or Sh’ma Yisrael]
This scholar used the term “hierophany” to describe manifestations of the divine. For 10 points each:
Identify this Romanian religious scholar who argued that even modern, secular man shares a religious desire to return to a mythical age, a concept he described with the borrowed term “eternal return.”
Eliade authored a study of these spiritualists who perform rituals to alter peoples’ states of consciousness to let them enter the spirit world. The common name for them is derived from Tungusic languages.
Traditional shamanism among these people uses altars called ovoo and venerates the earth god Natigai. These peoples’ language is the origin of the term lama used in Tibetan Buddhism, which is common among them.
Mircea Eliade
shamans
Mongols
Its name interchangeably refers to lightning bolts or diamond-like indestructibility. For 10 points each:
Identify this sect of Buddhism which became popular in China under the Tang, giving rise to the name Tangmi. It is the origin of most tantric practices, such as those that were incorporated into Tibetan Buddhism.
Vajrayana teachings generally don’t fall under the doctrine of the Three Turnings of one of these objects representing dharma. Idealized kings are often called chakravartin in reference to these objects on chariots.
In Vajrayana Buddhism, the Wisdom Queen Mahamayuri is generally represented by one of these animals. The greatest of the seven Yazidi holy beings, Melek Taus, is also represented as one of these animals.
Vajrayana Buddhism
wheels
peacocks
A bunch of things happened to make sure the meat you got at that food truck was halal. For 10 points each:
The butcher in charge of the meat made sure it didn’t come from this unclean animal, or it would be seriously haram. Sadly, that means no halal BLTs for you.
This phrase must be recited before the animal to be made into meat is slaughtered. This phrase also opens each sura of the Qur’an except for the ninth.
To find out if his seafood was halal or not, the cart owner checked which of these schools of fiqh he adheres to. For example, if he’s a Hanafi, then he shouldn’t be selling you any crab or lobster.
pigs [or swine]
basmala [or bismillah; accept “Bismillahi ar-Rahmani ar-Rahim” if they actually say the phrase]
madhhab [or mezhep] (just in case, the first word is pronounced “ma-THAHB” with “th” pronounced as in “that” but you should obviously be lenient)
Answer the following about Seventh-Day Adventists, for 10 points each.
Seventh-Day Adventists are named for observing this day of the week, roughly coinciding with the original Sabbath, as a day of rest; most other Christians rest on Sunday instead.
A couple with this surname were prominent early leaders of the Seventh-Day Adventists; Ellen wrote Conflict of the Ages and James started the publication The Present Truth, now the Adventist Review.
James White led the relocation of Seventh Day Adventists to this town, where fellow Adventist Sojourner Truth joined them in 1857.
Saturday
White
Battle Creek, Michigan
Commentaries on this text placed opposite Rashi’s notes are called tosafot. For 10 points each:
Identify this text, which contains thousands of pages of writing about halakhah, philosophy, and ethics.
The edition of the Talmud named for this city was compiled around 500 CE. This city, a long-time center of Jewish learning, was also where the Jews were held in captivity by Nebuchadnezzar II.
A city in this country names the edition of the Talmud that is most widely used in yeshiva schools today. This modern-day country was the historical center of the misnagdim who opposed the growth of Hasidism.
Talmud [accept Gemara or Mishnah, but don’t accept “Mishneh Torah”]
Babylon [or Babilu]
(Republic of) Lithuania [or Lietuva]
Angiras and this text’s other namesake rishi are named as its main compilers. For 10 points each:
Identify this text, which contains lots of weird black magic and other spells designed to assist in romance, statecraft, and longevity. It’s also the earliest Sanskrit text on medicine.
The rishi Atharvan, who lends his name to the Atharvaveda, is described as the first to create offerings to this classical element represented by the deity Agni.
The Atharvaveda also contains three of these texts. These Vedic commentaries were favorites of Arthur Schopenhauer and other German philosophers.
Atharvaveda [prompt on Vedas]
fire
Upanishads
All four maddhabs of jurisprudence are represented at this university, which disputes its status as the oldest institution of its kind with al-Karaouine in Morocco. For 10 points each:
Identify this university in Cairo, regarded as the most prestigious for scholars of Sunni Islam.
This generic Arabic word for any school is applied to institutions of Islamic education like al-Azhar.
al-Azhar University is tasked with appointing the Grand Mufti in Egypt, who issues legal edicts and interpretations like these ones. Another of these opinions called for the death of Salman Rushdie.
al-Azhar University [DO NOT reveal this answer, but accept “al-Azhar Madrasa”]
madrasas [or madāris]
fatwas [or fatāwa]
During services, members of the clergy sit in this area. For 10 points each:
Identify this part of a church. It shares its name with the ensemble of singers that sing liturgies and hymns during services.
The choir separates the sanctuary from this other area, which is the main body of the church where the congregation sits.
In Eastern Orthodox churches, this wall covered in religious imagery separates the nave from the sanctuary. It contains two sets of Deacon’s Doors and a Royal Door.
church choir
nave
iconostasis
This man was a cup-bearer, but to the King of Persia, not Kish. For 10 points each:
Identify this biblical man who took measures to divorce Jewish men from non-Jewish wives while working to restore the Jewish community in Jerusalem.
The book named for Nehemiah is often paired with the book named for this scribe, who led the Jews out of exile in Babylon. Many scholars credit him with the compilation of the Torah.
Sanballat the Horonite, a major opponent of Nehemiah, was a leader of this religious sect. In another biblical story, a man of this sect does what a priest and a Levite chose not to.
Nehemiah
Ezra [or Esdras]
Samaritans
According to legend, the Virgin Mary was shipwrecked on this mountain while traveling with John the Baptist to visit their friend Lazarus. For 10 points each:
Identify this holy mountain in Greece, home to twenty different Orthodox monasteries.
Mount Athos may have served as a refuge for Orthodox monks who venerated these small religious devotional pictures during periods in which emperors like Leo the Isaurian promoted their destruction.
Female presence on Athos was forbidden by a Byzantine decree of this type issued in 1046. Issuance of these decrees was adopted by the Holy Roman Empire, as exemplified by a 1356 one defining the Empire’s constitution.
Mount Athos
icons
golden bull [or chrysobull; prompt on bull]
Ifá divination is performed by babalawo priests in a religion popular in this country using cowrie shells and other implements. For 10 points each:
Identify this non-African country, where secret religious fraternities called abakuá became most popular.
A variety of this activity done by masked abakuá men called iremes helped give rise to a Cuban style of it called rumba. Some Native Americans perform this activity to summon rain.
Ñáñigos were members of abakuás believed to possess this power, which they were thought to use to track enemies. Naguals were people in Mesoamerican society who were believed to have this ability.
(Republic of) Cuba [or República de Cuba]
dance
turn into animals [accept clear equivalents; accept turning into any specific animal]
Name some things about religious chanting,
Members of this religion chant "Namu Myoho Renge Kyo," a name for the Lotus Sutra. 
Members of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness repeatedly chant the sixteen word Maha Mantra, which consists of these three names. 
This sacred syllable, which frequently opens and closes chapters of the Vedas, is chanted in Hinduism, Buddhism, and other religions
Nichiren Buddhism [prompt on: "Buddhism", "Mahayana"] 
Hare, Krishna, and Rama
Om
This prohibition caused the development of special partnership forms called "mudarabah" and "musharaka."
Name this practice which most Muslim scholars agree is referred to in the Qur'an by the Arabic word "riba."
Charging interest is among the activities encompassed by this Arabic word, which roughly translates to "sinful." It is the opposite of halal.
Muhammad explicitly addressed the prohibition on riba in this sermon, which was delivered from Mount Arafat and noted that Arabs and non-Arabs are equal since all are descended from Adam and Eve
 charging interest on loans [or: usury]
haram
Muhammad's Farewell Sermon [or: Last Sermon of Muhammad, Khutabal Wada] 
These structures are usually windowless and are often built over a three-day period with volunteer labor. 
Name these buildings which are never adorned with crosses and which are smaller than the Assembly Halls used for similar purposes.
Kingdom Halls are used by this nontrinitarian Christian sect which teaches its adherents to knock on doors and to hand out copies of its magazine The Watchtower.
One of the chief purposes of the Kingdom Hall is for this weekly ritual, in which adherents touch the "emblem" of bread and wine but only partake if they are sure they are among the 144,000.
Kingdom Halls
Jehovah's Witnesses
Lord's Evening Meal
The colors and patterns on these objects are representative of different orishas.
Name these objects, which are referred to by the Yoruban word "eleke," and which are worn by new initiates after a ceremony involving a cleansing ritual and animal sacrifice
Elekes are received by initiates into this religion, which was developed by Yoruban slaves in the Caribbean.
This other syncretic religion originated in Brazil in the Bahian city of Salvador. It combines Yoruban beliefs with Roman Catholicism and is named for the ritual music and dancing its adherents participate in.
beads [or: necklace]
Santeria
 Candomble
Name some drugs that are involved in religious ceremonies,
Members of the Rastafari movement often use a pipe called a Chalice to smoke this plant, which is used as a meditation aid. 
Ancient Hindus extracted the juice of an identified plant, filtered it through sheep's wool, and mixed it with water and milk to create this offering to the gods which was also imbibed as a hallucinogen. 
The FDA seized tens of thousands of doses of Dianazene, which contained large doses of this compound, from L. Ron Hubbard. The Scientologist "Purification Rundown" uses mainly large doses of this compound heal radiation sickness in adherents.
marijuana [or: cannabis indica, ganja, other street equivalents; if Nick Jensen is playing, require him to list every street name] 
soma
niacin [or: vitamin B3] 
This mystic famously declared "I am the Truth," prompting allegations that he claimed to be divine. 
Name this mystic who was crucified by the Abbasid Caliph Al-Muqtadir in 922.
Mansur al-Hallaj belonged to this tradition of Islamic mysticism that is manifested in the whirling of the Mevlevis and the poetry of Rumi.
One of the main ways that Sufis demonstrate their devotion is through this rhythmic repetition of the name of Allah.
Mansur al-Halla
 Sufi
dhikr
The traditional religion of these people included evil spirits called Ogbanje. 
Name this people whose religion, sometimes called Odinani, involved worship of a high god named Chukwu.
Another Nigerian ethnic group, the Hausa, primarily follows this religion. Mansa Musa I of Mali was an adherent of this faith.
In 2012, Tawadros II succeeded Shenouda III as leader of a religion headquartered in this African country.
Igbo
Sunni Islam
Egypt
One story relates that two men unsuccessfully wagered that they could make this man angry by insulting him. 
Name this rabbi who started out as a woodcutter and who frequently debated his great rival Shammai.
When a man said he would convert to Judaism only if Hillel taught this entire text while the man stood on one foot, Hillel simply stated "What is hateful to you, do not do to your neighbor." This first five books of the Tanakh forms the core of Jewish custom.
 Hillel's teachings are often distilled into this many rules. This is the number of days that close relatives sit in mourning for a dead person in Judaism.
Hillel the Elder
 Torah
seven
This church is led by the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. 
Name this second largest division of Christianity which has powerful branches in Greece and Russia. 
This mountain in northern Greece is the site of a semi-autonomous republic where monks inhabit 20 Greek Orthodox monasteries. 
This Greek Orthodox monastery at the foot of Mount Sinai was the site of the discovery of the rare handwritten Greek Bible called the Codex Sinaiticus. 
Eastern Orthodox Church 
Mount Athos
Saint Catherine's Monastery 
In Brooklyn, conflict has developed from the tendency of Hassidic communities to loudly broadcast this sound every Friday night. 
Name this sound which is broadcast throughout Israel every year at 10:00 AM on the 27th of Nisan, prompting Israelis to stop whatever they are doing and observe a two-minute moment of silence.
In addition to the moment of silence, many Jewish communities light six candles on the 27th of Nisan to commemorate the six million Jews who died in this event.
This official memorial to the victims of the Holocaust in Jerusalem contains a Hall of Names, which displays thousands of pictures of victims.
air raid siren
Holocaust [or: ha-Shoah]
Yad Vashem
This ritual includes a recital of the story of Adam and Eve and the making of a series of covenants. 
Name this "ordinance" which also includes ritual washing and anointing and which is often first undertaken before a two-year mission trip. 
The endowment is one of the temple ordinances of this religion which was founded by Joseph Smith. 
The first endowment occurred in the "Red Brick Store" in this Illinois city, where Joseph Smith was mayor at the time of his death. 
endowment
Mormonism [or: Latter Day Saints movement]
Nauvoo
Although this event is traditionally held to have occurred three to four hundred years after the Hijra, Wael Hallaq and other scholars argued that it never happened. F
Give this metaphorical term for the decline of analogical reasoning and personal judgment among Sunni scholars.
Ijtihad is one of the traditional Sunni sources of this religious law of Islam. Jurisprudence, or human understanding of this system, is called fiqh.
Another source of sharia law is ijma, or the consensus of Muhammad and this group of close followers whose name is Arabic for "companions."
closing of the gates of ijtihad [or: closing of the doors of ijtihad, answers which mention ijtihad, doors or gates, and the concept of closing or shutting]
sharia
sahaba
This substance makes its first appearance in the Bible when Noah makes some. 
Name this substance that Jesus turns water into. 
The issue of whether the wine consumed in the Eucharist is actually or symbolically the blood of Christ was the sticking point between Martin Luther and Ulrich Zwingli at this 1529 meeting. 
This company, which was purchased by Bain Capital in 2014, has an iron lock on the kosher wine market. Some Orthodox Jews refuse to purchase its sweet concord wine, which contains corn syrup. 
wine
Marburg Colloquy
Manischewitz
 The Gospel of Nicodemus gives this man the name Dismas and his companion the name Gestas. 
Name this man who in the Gospel of Luke is told "Today shalt thou be with me in paradise."
This New Testament book includes the line "Behold, I come as a thief." It is the last book of the New Testament. 
This epistle states "Let him that stole steal no more: but rather let him labor, working with his hands." Its line "For by grace are ye saved through faith" is a central justification for the doctrine of salvation by faith alone. 
 the Penitent Thief [or: the Good Thief, the Thief on the Cross; prompt on: "thief"]
Book of Revelation
Epistle to the Ephesians
In 1952, youthful adherents of this sect attacked a priest, tagging him with a placard reading "raccoon dog monk." For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese sect of Nichiren Buddhism, described as "the world's largest Buddhist lay group," that has over 12 million adherents and is sometimes considered a quasi-fascist organization or a cult.
Soka Gakkai reveres and chants the name of this Mahayana sutra, which is named for a flower.
The Lotus Sutra uses the parable of the burning house, in which a parent bribes a child to exit a burning building, to illustrate this Buddhist concept, which signifies a conscious choice of faith that is driven by incomplete but effective reasoning.
Soka Gakkai [International] [accept Soka Kyoiku Gakkai]
Lotus Sutra [or Saddharma Puṇḍarika Sutra]
upaya [accept expediency or expedient means or convenience or convenient means or word forms]
This prayer is constructed around three visions, two of which are of angels glorifying God enthroned and are drawn from Isaiah and Ezekiel. For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish prayer that comprises the third blessing of the Amidah.
All versions of the Kedushah contain a quote from Isaiah that thrice repeats the Hebrew word "kadosh," which translates to this English word. In Catholic mass, the Sanctus also quotes that passage, thrice repeating this word.
The Kedushah is expanded during two Amidah prayer services on Shabbat, the Mussaf service and this morning service that many synagogues combine with the Mussaf.
Kedushah
holy [or holy, holy, holy]
Shacharit
According to Talmudic tradition, this gentile prophet was uniquely able to sense when Yahweh was in a state of wrath, and his followers possessed an evil eye. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Beor who was hired by King Balak of Moab to curse the Israelites, but instead had words of praise literally forced into his mouth by Yahweh.
During Balaam's encounter with an angel, he is riding this type of animal, which is given the ability to speak after Balaam is cruel to it.
Balaam appears in the Book of Numbers, which contains the first of four biblical references to these flying creatures, which God sent among the Israelites; God then instructed Moses to set atop a pole to create the nehushtan as a method of curing people of bite wounds caused by them.
Balaam [or Bil'am]
donkey [or ass]
fiery serpents [accept fiery flying serpents; accent any answer indicating flaming snakes; prompt on "snakes" or "serpents"]
Possible methods of resolving this problem include a cycle called the latercus and the Alexandrian computus. For 10 points each:
Name this millennia-long problem in Christianity that was resolved in the kingdom of Northumbria at the Synod of Whitby.
The Synod of Whitby is a central event in this saint's Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
The First Council of Nicaea resolved an early Easter-date controversy by declaring that the holiday would no longer be calculated based on this Jewish month; the Quartodeciman controversy also concerned Christian practices aligned with this Jewish month.
calculating the date of Easter [accept equivalents such as when to celebrate Easter]
Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede; or Beda Venerabilis; or Baeda]
Nisan
Answer the following about Anabaptistism, for 10 points each.
Most Anabaptists adhere to a strict and literal interpretation of this collection of sayings by Jesus; it includes the command to "be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect," and includes the Beatitudes.
The earliest Anabaptist confession was written in Schleitheim in this modern-day country, where Felix Manz, Conrad Grebel, and George Blaurock started an early Anabaptist group of "brethren."
Most members of this Anabaptist sect live in Canada or the upper Great Plains in the U.S. Its members live in nearly self-sufficient "colonies" in which all property is owned collectively.
Sermon on the Mount [or sermo in monte]
Switzerland [or Schweiz; or Swiss Confederation; or Confederatio Helvetica; accept Swiss Brethren]
Hutterites [or Hutterer]
A religious group in this country is headed by the Catholicos of the East, Basileos Mar Thoma Paulose II. For 10 points each:
Name this country, home to the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, which is the easternmost church in communion with the Oriental Orthodox churches.
Members of the Indian Nasrani ethnic group claim spiritual descent from this apostle, who did his missionary work in India and is sometimes called Didymus.
Name any one of the three states, part of Eastern India's Seven Sisters, that were converted to Protestantism in the 19th century by American and British missionaries, and which are now the only Christian majority states in India.
[Republic of] India [or Bharat Ganrajya]
St. Thomas
Nagaland, Meghalaya, or Mizoram
A fish tries to eat this man's foot, but he pulls the fish onto land and eats most of it. For 10 points each:
Name this biblical character who travels with Azariah, secretly the angel Raphael, in order to get money that his father left in Media.
Tobiah's father, Tobit, was blinded when he slept in a courtyard and this kind of animal pooped into his eyes. In Jewish mythos, Ziz is a giant animal of this type.
Tobit became blinded after the death of this ruler; earlier, Tobit secretly buried Jews who were put to death by this ruler. In Second Kings, God kills this man's army after hearing Hezekiah's prayers.
Tobiah
bird [accept avians or other equivalents; accept sparrows]
Sennacherib [or Sin-ahhi-eriba]
Western Christians generally begin this practice by touching the left shoulder, while Orthodox Christians generally begin by touching the right shoulder. For 10 points each:
Name this ritual, often done while saying "in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit."
The five fingers used to make the sign of the cross in Catholic tradition represent these five marks that are often prominently depicted in scenes of the Incredulity of Thomas.
This Italian Capuchin monk, who died in 1968, displayed stigmata that mirrored the wounds of Christ. He was canonized in 2002 despite allegations that he faked the stigmata using carbolic acid.
making the sign of the cross [accept crossing oneself or making the cross or equivalents]
wounds of Christ [accept equivalents; accept Holy Wounds or Sacred Wounds; prompt on "wounds" or equivalent; prompt on "stigmata"]
Saint Pio of Pietrelcina [or Padre Pio; or Francesco Forgione]
Saul Lieberman took issue with Jacob Neusner's attempt at this undertaking, stating that it belonged in "the waste basket." For 10 points each:
Name this undertaking that resulted in the authoritative Steinsaltz edition, which is paired with color maps and commentary by Rashi in the Noe edition that is still being serially released.
The Talmud as people understand it was compiled by rabbis in, and is sometimes named for, this city, which in the Book of Revelation is the embodiment of all evil, ruled by a whore who rides a seven-headed beast.
The earlier Jerusalem Talmud, and not the Babylonian one, includes the tractates of Seder Zeraim, which deal with this domain of law that scholars surmise is more relevant to Jerusalem than it is to Babylon.
English translations of the Talmud [accept equivalents such as Talmud translations; prompt on "Talmud(s)" or "Talmud edition(s)" or similar answers]
Babylon [or Bavli]
agriculture [accept broad equivalents such as farming or land cultivation, etc.]
Answer the following about extremes in Russian Orthodox spirituality, for 10 points each.
On Great Saturday, the day before Easter, this extra-Biblical event is remembered with intense icons and a sudden change of the liturgical colors from somber dark purple to celebratory white. The righteous pagans were brought to God during this event, which preceded the Resurrection.
The Russian Orthodox Church has canonized 36 of these people, who feigned a bizarre or destructive persona while remaining internally serene and devoted. They included the Byzantine saint Simeon of Emesa and Saint Basil of cathedral fame.
The Orthodox Great Feast commemorating this occurrence on August 15 is preceded by a two-week fast, during which believers refrain from eating meat, dairy, oil, or wine.
Harrowing of Hell [accept Christ in Hell or Christ breaking the gates of Hell or equivalents; prompt on descriptive answers such as "Jesus conquering death;" do not accept or prompt on "the Resurrection"]
holy fools [or yurodivy; or fools for Christ]
Dormition of the Theotokos [or of the Virgin Mary; accept Dormition Fast (or Feast)]
The archetype of this religious figure is often thought to be the Ugaritic hero Kothar. For 10 points each:
Name this Islamic religious figure, whose name is translated as "The Green One" because of a false etymology. This righteous servant of God accompanies Dhul-Qarnayn on a quest and finds the water of life.
Al-Khidr is sometimes syncretized with Saint Sarkis the Warrior, an Armenian hero who held this position in the Roman army. Biblical holders of this position include the master of a servant Jesus heals at Capernaum, and Cornelius, the first gentile convert.
The miracle of the healing of the centurion's servant is found in both Matthew and this third and longest gospel, which, like Acts of the Apostles, is addressed to Theophilus.
al-Khidr [accept Khizr or Khyzer or Qeezr or Qhizyer or Xizir or Hizir]
centurion [accept hekatontarch or kentarch]
Gospel According to Luke [or Loukan]
This religion's founder was sent to an insane asylum, where he then converted the head doctor. For 10 points each:
Name this offshoot of Buddhism that is practiced mainly by farmers. It was founded by Huynh Phu So in 1939.
Hoa Hao is a Buddhist tradition in this country, which is also home to Cao Dai and the mother goddess religion Dao Mau.
Like Hoa Hao, this movement founded by Li Hongzhi is subject to Communist persecution. The Kilgour-Matas report concluded that the Chinese government forcibly detains this faith's practitioners and harvests their organs.
Dao Hoa Hao [or Phat Giao Hoa Hao; or Hoahaoism or word forms thereof]
[Socialist Republic of] Vietnam [or SRV; or Cong hoa Xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam]
Falun Gong [or Falun Dafa]
The Kandlikars grew up in a Marathi-speaking family in a Telugu-speaking land. Cultural conflict! For 10 points each:
Both the Kandlikars underwent this ceremony at age eight, in which they were invested with a thread representing the acquisition of knowledge. They also had their heads shaved save a small circular patch at the center, which led to incessant teasing. Answers in Sanskrit, Hindi, Marathi, Telugu, or Tamil are acceptable.
Many Telugu folks, unlike the Kandlikars, do the Upanayana shortly before this event, which culminates with several mantras ending in "Shubha-mangala-sava-dhan," exchange of garlands, and all- around throwing of rice.
With the Upanayana, Brahmans enter this phase of life in which they spend several years at an Ashram with a Guru, learning all the scriptures. Today this term is more commonly taken to mean the vow of celibacy that Brahmans take with the Upanayana, which doesn't amuse the promiscuous Telugu peoples.
Upanayana [or munj; or janeu; or Jandhyam; or Poonulu; or vadugu]
wedding [accept getting married or nuptials or equivalents]
Brahmachari [or Brahmacharya]
These people, who included the medieval traveler Eldad ha-Dani, ruled the Kingdom of Semien. For 10 points each:
Name these people, whose queen Yodit is traditionally considered the conqueror of the Kingdom of Axum.
The Beta Israel are an ancient Jewish community from this modern-day country. It was the supposed location of a mythical Christian kingdom ruled by Prester John, and one of its churches claims to hold the Ark of the Covenant.
This golden-voiced friend of Muhammad was born into slavery as the son of Ethiopian princess captured during the Abyssinian attempt to destroy the Kaaba during the Year of the Elephant. He was later freed and became the first muezzin.
Beta Israel [accept, but do not reveal, Ethiopian Jews or equivalents]
[Federal Democratic Republic of] Ethiopia [or Ityoppya]
Bilal ibn Rabah [or Bilal al-Habashi; or Bilal ibn Riyah; prompt on "ibn Rabah" or "al- Habashi" or "ibn Riyah"]
This man founded the Community of St. John with Adrienne von Speyr, a twice-married Protestant whose mystical experiences impressed this theologian. 
Name this Roman Catholic theologian from Switzerland who explored the resurrection of Christ in Mysterium Paschale and wrote the five-volume Theo-Drama.
Balthasar was a major expositor of this Neo-Orthodox theologian from Switzerland, best known for his thirteen-volume Church Dogmatics and the commentary The Epistle to the Romans.
Along with Dietrich Bonhoeffer and others, Barth became a leader in the Confessing Church, which fiercely opposed this regime. Ideologists of this regime, like Alfred Rosenberg, promoted Positive Christianity, which sought to deny Christ's Semitic origin.
Hans Urs von Balthasar
Karl Barth
Third Reich [accept answers like Nazi Germany]
Nine instruments are played during services in this religion and the Kagura Service is also performed during services
Name this religion that also teaches that people must perform daily selflessness called Hinokishin.
This is the central tenant of Tenrikyo. According to the Tenrikyo website, the key to realizing this is "gratitude to God the Parent" and this thing is normally seen as an elevated state of mind.
Tenrikyo was founded in this nation. Most of the people n this nation follow a religion that worships Kami.
Tenrikyo
Joyous Life [accept yoki yusan; accept yoki gurashi]
Japan [accept Nippon; accept Nihon]
This denomination includes the House for All Sinners and Saints founded by emerging church pastor Nadia Bolz-Weber, and in 2013, Guy Erwin was chosen as its first openly gay bishop.
Name this largest Lutheran denomination in the United States. This church is less conservative than both the Missouri Synod and the Wisconsin Synod.
e Evangelical Lutheran Church accepts the unaltered version of this document, which was written by Philipp Melanchthon after Martin Luther was banned from accepting Charles V's invitation. Its 28 articles include salvation by faith alone.
Of course, the Evangelical Lutheran Church accepts the sacramental union, the Lutheran version of this doctrine which states that Jesus Christ is actually in sacramental bread and wine, not just metaphorically.
Evangelical Lutheran Church in America [or ELCA]
Augsburg Confession [or Confessio Augustana]
 Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist
This item had forms such as Atet in the morning and Sektet in the evening. 
Identify this vessel which was routinely attacked by Apep.
Overnight, the solar barge passes from west to east through this Egyptian underworld ruled by Osiris.
These passages recovered from Middle Kingdom paintings are the source of much knowledge about Egyptian underworld beliefs. They are the oldest reference to the judgment of Osiris.
Ra's solar barge [or the ship of Ra, etc.]
Duat
Coffin Texts
Citizens in Renaissance Florence and Siena began their calendars on this holiday
Identify this holiday, usually held on March 25th. Maronites and other Eastern denominations celebrate this holiday as part of a season that also includes feasts honoring the birth of John the Baptist.
This angel related the news to Mary that she would give birth to Jesus. In the Book of Enoch he brings Enoch to God, and he's also the angel who will blow a trumpet to announce the Last Judgment.
The date of the Annunciation, as well as that of Easter, was set by this Scythian monk who came up with the system of Anno Domini. His system was adopted in England by the Synod of Whitby.
The Feast of Annunciation of Mary [or Solemnity of the Annunciation of Christ]
Gabriel
Dionysius Exiguus [or Denis the Little]
These groupings include the Bobo Ashanti and the Twelve Tribes of Israel. 
Give this term used in Rastafarianism for roughly the concept of "denominations.
The Bobo Ashanti hold that, while Haile Selaisse is the Rastafarian god, this founder of the White Star Line and back-to-Africa activist is the prophet.
Rastafarianism developed out of the "Constructive Gaathly" movement led by this author of the Holy Piby.
mansions
Marcus Garvey
Robert Athlyi Rogers
This day follows Shrove Tuesday and people receive the title substance on their foreheads.
Name this day that marks the beginning of Lent for Catholics.
Although Ash Wednesday is a day of fasting, but there are many days of feasting in the Catholic Church including one in March named for this aspect of the Virgin Mary who appeared to small children in Portugal.
Ash Wednesday is a movable feast on the Church's calendar, much like this day after Pentecost. It is also known as the Feast of the Holy Spirit.
Ash Wednesday
Our Lady of Fatima
Whit Monday
Dan learned a lot about a specific Jewish holiday starring the great Israeli actor Shuli Rand. Name some stuff about what he learned. 
In the film, Moshe Bellanga searches for a perfect type of this fruit from a citron tree. It makes up the Four Species with the lulav, hadass and aravah.
The Four Species are used to bless the booths during this holiday, which is coincidentally also known as the Festival of Booths. It is celebrated on the fifteenth day of Tishrei.
This film was named after this prayer that welcomes guests like Abraham and Moses to the booth.
Etrog
Sukkot [accept Sukkoth; accept Sukkos; accept Feast of Tabernacles]
Ushpizin
This man founded the Order of Interbeing and urged Martin Luther King, Jr. to condemn the Vietnam War, after which King nominated him for a Nobel Peace Prize.
Name this Zen Buddhist monk from Vietnam, the author of The Miracle of Mindfulness, who developed a socially conscious Emerging Buddhism in books like Vietnam: Lotus in a Sea of Fire.
Nhat Hanh is one of the most noted representatives of Buddhism today, along with this head of the Gelug school currently exiled in Dharamsala, India.
Both Nhat Hanh and the Dalai Lama conversed with this Trappist author of The Seven Storey Mountain, whose dialogues with D. T. Suzuki were included in works like this man's Zen and the Birds of Appetite.
Thich Nhat Hanh
Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama [accept either underlined portion]
Thomas Merton
This book was followd up by The Grammar of Assent and details the author's leadership of the Oxford Movement. 
Name this book that was written in response to attacks by Charles Kingsley.
The Apologia was written by this British guy who became a Roman Caotholic cardinal after converting from Anglicanism. Along with Edward Pusey, he contributed to Tracts For The Times.
 This man is referred to as "the writer who made a deeper impression on my mind than any other" in the Apologia. This influential British preacher wrote A Commentary on the Whole Bible and The Force of Truth
Apologia Pro Vita Sua
John Henry Newman [accept Cardinal Newman; accept Blessed John Henry Newman]
Reverend Thomas Scott
One of these deities gives the prologue in Plautus' play Aulularia. 
Identify these Roman deities, whose familiaris variety protected the household. Each city had a praestites version of these deities.
Outside of cities, the Lares were typically honored at these places. The Compitalia was a festival devoted to the gods of these places, where criminals and suicide victims were often buried in Christian Europe.
These deities, particularly worshipped at the marriage bed, guarded over a man's life and were analogous to Juno for women. They could personify man's creative power and were proclaimed sanctus et sanctissimus deus on a man's birthday.
Lares [accept Lar familiaris]
crossroads [or cross-ways]
Genius [or Genii]
One bishop of this church got bad publicity for kicking and slapping a statue of Our Lady Aparecida on this church's TV station, Rede Record.
Name this church founded in 1977 by Bishop Edir Macedo. It is affiliated with prosperity theology and in 2009 was charged, but not convicted, of fraud.
The Universal Church of the Kingdom of God is from this country, where Our Lady Aparecida is the patron saint. UCKG has been accused of hatred towards syncretic religions like CandomblÃ© and Umbanda from this country.
The UCKG is an offshoot of this Christian renewal movement that emerged out of the Holiness movement through events like the Azusa Street Revival. It argues that baptism with the Holy Spirit is a second work of grace.
Universal Church of the Kingdom of God [or Igreja Universal do Reino de Deus; or UCKG; or IURD]
Federative Republic of Brazil [or RepÃºblica Federativa do Brasil]
neo-Pentecostalism
One of the first of these religious buildings was built in Kirtland, Ohio and most of these buildings face east to hopefully catch the first glimpse of Christ's Second Coming.
Name these buildings that normally have a spire containing a statue of Moroni.
In a Mormon temple you would probably meet a member of this class of priests. This class, the lesser of the two Mormon priestly classes, mostly contains males before the age of 18.
If you're lucky, while visiting you may see one of these exciting ceremonies where Mormons receive their garments for the first time. During this ceremony, people walk around, knock on veils and give the Sign of the Nail.
Mormon Temples [accept LDS Temples; accept Temples of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints]
Aaronic Priesthood [accept Priesthood of Aaron; accept Leviitical Priesthood]
Endowment Ceremony
This branch places special emphasis on fitra, or intuitive recognition of God and virtue, and they try to activate the six latifa as part of their spiritual development. 
Name this mystical branch of Islam whose turuq, or schools, include the Mevlevi Order, whose sama ceremony involves whirling. Al-Ghazali defended it in The Revival of Religious Sciences.
This early 13th century author of The Meccan Openings and The Ringstones of the Wisdoms was called the "Great Master" of Sufism. In discussing the role of imagination, he used the concept of barzakh to describe how things simultaneously unite and divide.
Unlike other Sufi turuq, the Naqshbandi school traces its teachings back through this first Caliph, a father-in-law of Muhammad.
Sufism
Ibn Arabi [or Abu 'Abd Allah Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Muhammad ibn al-Arabi al-Hatimi at-Ta'i]
Abu Bakr [or Abdullah ibn Abi Qhuhafa]
Answer the following about theologies after Auschwitz, for 10 points each
Emil Fackenheim suggested adding a 614th one of these Jewish precepts, that one being to deny Hitler posthumous victories. This Hebrew term can also refer to an act of generosity or kindness
Pope Benedict XVI broached the subject after a visit to Auschwitz. Benedict's most famous theological work is this first encyclical he wrote as Pope, which distinguishes between eros, agape, and philia.
This German Christian theologian of the Reformed Church argues in The Crucified God, that the concept of a God detached from human suffering must be rethought and rejected in the wake of the Shoah. His analysis in other works like The Theology of Hope gave rise to liberation theology movements.
mitzvot [or mitzvah]
Deus Caritas Est [or God is Love; or De Christiano Amore]
Jurgen Moltmann
Answer these questions about Mormon customs, for 10 points each.
Monday nights are reserved for this homely Mormon practice, in which parents and children sit down, discuss Gospel lessons, and sing hymns to strengthen their familial bonds.
Mormons have taken flak for applying this rite en masse to dead people, including Anne Frank
During the dedication of a temple, Mormons perform this rite. It consists of waving white handkerchiefs while crying out a certain word in unison to celebrate the temple's completion.
Family Home Evening [or FHE]
posthumous baptism
the Hosanna Shout [or equivalents, like shouting Hosanna]
Very dubious examples of these entities note that one person heard a talking donkey tell them the information in question. For 10 points each:
Name these chains of narrators that muhadithin can use to verify the objects of their studies. These lists, which precede the matn, should be composed of authoritative people
An isnad is part of one of these reports of the actions and judgments of Muhammad, the most important basis for fiqh and tafsir after the Quran.
Sunni Orthodoxy acknowledges this many authentic collections of hadith,  the most trusted of which is the sahih al-Bukhari. Some Muslims earn extra credit after Ramadan by fasting on this many days during Shawwal. 
isnad [or sanad]
hadith
six 
Answer the following about religious chants, for 10 points each.
Yogis believe that reciting these sacred formulas while meditating can bring them in contact with the divine. They generally consist of two shlokas, but can be as short as the syllable "Om."
This short prayer, important in Hesychasm, simply consists of the Greek for "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, the sinner." Eastern Orthodox ascetics will often repeat it throughout the day.
Followers of Nichiren Buddhism chant this four-word phrase, meaning "Devotion to the Wonderful Dharma of the Lotus," to reveal their Buddha-nature.
mantras 
the "Jesus Prayer" [or "The Wish; or "he Euche"; prompt on "The Prayer]
Namu Myoho Renge Kyo" [or "Nam Myoho Renge Kyo"]
Answer the following about Hindu festivals, for 10 points each.
Hiranyakashipu's failure to have his nephew Prahalad killed is one of the myths behind this Hindu "Festival of Colors," whose participants throw occasionally asbestos-based colored powders at each other
The largest religious gathering in the world occurs at this city, where Hindus make a pilgrimage every 12 years for the Kumbh Mela festival
The Durga Puja of Bengal is a regional variant of this ten-day, nine night Hindu festival celebrated five times a year in honor of the nine manifestations of Durga.
Holi [or Phagwa; or Dolajatra; or Basantotsav]
Allahabad [or Prayag]
Navratri [prompt on "The Nine Nights"]
This religion's saying "a thing lent, a thing borrowed" teaches that the body is merely a vessel borrowed from God. For 10 points
Name this monotheistic religion founded by a peasant woman in the 19th century, which promotes the idea of salvation through a "Joyous Life." It is historically the largest religion founded by a woman.
enrikyo was once considered an offshoot of Shinto, whose adherents pass through these gates to get into their shrines
On this holiday, celebrated on November 15th proud Shintoist parents bring children of three namesake ages to the local shrine to thank the kami for granting them a healthy life.
Tenrikyo
torii
Shichi-Go-San [or Seven-Five-Three festival]
Identify some aspects of Mahavira's post-royal life, for 10 points each:
Identify some aspects of Mahavira's post-royal life, for 10 points each:
Mahavira meditated in a squatting position and starved himself for two and a half days before achieving this non-moksha analogue of nirvana. It is roughly translated as "supreme knowledge."
Some time after Mahavira's death, this "sky-clad" sect split off from the Svetambaras over questions such as whether monks should wear clothes.
Parshva [or Parshvanatha]
kevala jÃ±āna
Digambaras
This pantheistic religious sect was led by crazy people like the author of A Single Eye, Laurence Claxton. For 10 points each:
Name this fanatical sect of possibly-nudist Antinomians. If it existed at all, it was prominent during the English Commonwealth.
Ann Lee founded this communal sect, whose members dedicated themselves to celibacy. It was also known for producing a namesake kind of plain furniture.
George Fox's Quakers took inspiration from this heretical belief system promoted by Madame Guyon and Miguel de Molinos. According to this belief system, man could perfect himself by withdrawing from the world to contemplate the divine.
The Ranters
the Shakers
Quietism
This book consists of five long poems, the first four of which are acrostics. It was supposedly written in a grotto outside the Damascus Gate around 586 BCE. For 10 points each:
Name this book of the Ketuvim that is classically attributed to the Prophet Jeremiah. It is traditionally read on the Ninth of Av.
The father of all commentary on Lamentations, as with the Tanach as a whole, is this 11th and 12th Century French Rabbi.
The inside margin of a page of the Babylonian Talmud contains Rashi's commentary; the outside margin, on the other hand, contains these "additions" written by Rashi's students, family members, and successors.
The Book of Lamentations [or Eikhah]
Rashi [or Shlomo Yitzhaki; or Salomon Isaacides; prompt on partial answers]
Tosafot [or Tosaphoth]
This concept is closely related to and sometimes conflated with ta'wil, which is sometimes used to extract hidden knowledge from individual verses. For 10 points each:
Name this concept which can be translated as "to make clear" or "to lift the curtain," which deals with determining the true meaning of the Qur'an.
This term, meaning "effort," denotes a form of reasoning used in problems not directly covered in the Q'uran or Hadith. Sunnis hold that the "gates" of this practice are closed.
An often interpreted ayat from the Qur'an is the "Throne Verse," which is contained in this second sura of the Qur'an. This sura contains a story in which Moses and the Israelites sacrifice an animal.
tafsir 
itijihad 
Surat al-Baqarah [or the "Cow Sura"]
This theologian characterized the fundamental religious experience as awareness of what he called "the numinous," in his 1917 work, The Holy. For 10 points each:
Identify this German theologian who argued that religious experiences evoke two reactions, the mysterium fascinans and the mysterium tremendum.
This religious scholar was strongly influenced by Rudolf Otto to apply phenomenology to his own works on religion, the best known of which is his The Sacred and the Profane.
Eliade claimed that this ascetic practice of meditation in Hinduism and Buddhism is a locus of sacred power that provides the means of escape from a desacralized world.
Rudolf Otto
Mircea Eliade 
yoga 
Answer these questions about contemporary religious epistemology, for 10 points each.
Peter van Inwagen attacked this chapter of a larger work by reformulating its argument in terms of "contraventions." This chapter, which argues that no one could believe any reports of the title phenomena after weighing the evidence, is by David Hume
This contemporary adherent of Calvinist "reformed epistemology" argues that belief in God is a "properly basic belief." This apologist advanced the idea of "warrant," the property that makes a belief into knowledge, in Warranted Christian Belief.
This American argued for the epistemic circularity of sense-perception, which he dubbed "SP," and argued that people who trust their senses have no way to dismiss religious experience claims, in his book Perceiving God.
"Of Miracles" [prompt on An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding or answers specifying chapter 10 thereof]
Alvin Carl Plantinga
William Alston
These people include Vipassi, who was 120 feet tall, radiated light for fifty-six miles around, and lived for eighty to one hundred thousand years. For 10 points each:
Identify these non-tirthankara people who also include the medical patron Bhaisajyaguru and Kassapa, who was interred in a structure made of ten-million-rupee bricks.
The final Buddha will be this messianic figure, often claimed as the patron of Chinese rebellions.
In 1911, members of this religion established the Order of the Star in the East in the belief that Jiddu Krishnamurti was Maitreya. Krishnamurti later led the breakaway Ascended Master and I AM movements from this religion.
buddhas [do not accept or prompt on "boddhisatvas"]
Maitreya 
theosophy 
The three most important of these structures were Adur Burzen-Mihr, Adur Gushnasp, and Adur Farnbag, thought to be established by Ahura Mazda himself. For 10 points each
Name these places of worship in Zoroastrianism dedicated to the veneration of a phenomenon representing God's light.
These twin concepts in Zoroastrianism, roughly meaning "truth" and "lies," correspond to the respective domains of Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu. Name both
 Asha is also one of the six Amesha Spentas, who are worshipped in these six important seasonal festivals from Zoroastrianism. Their name means "proper time."
fire temples [or Agiaries]
asha and druj [or asa and druj]
the six gahambars
His founding of the work Tracts for the Times inspired the name "Tractarians" for the Oxford movement. For 10 points each:
Name this former Anglican priest who became a Cardinal and explained the reasoning for his conversion to Catholicism in his Apologia Pro Vita Sua.
This English convert to Catholicism wrote many popular statements of the faith, such as his work of Christian apologetics, Orthodoxy, and his response to the Outline of History, The Everlasting Man.
This early Christian apologist defended the Christian veneration of logos as analogous to the Platonic search for ultimate wisdom. This man also wrote a dialogue in which he tries to convert an old Jew named Tryphon.
Cardinal John Henry Newman CO [or Blessed John Henry Newman]
GK Chesterton
Saint Justin Martyr 
This faith stresses the cultivation of the Xinxing and teaches that space aliens that arrived on earth in 1900 control world leaders. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese spiritual movement, known as the Practice of the Wheel of Dharma, that has been persecuted as a cult by the Chinese government.
Part of the dharmashastra tradition is this Hindu text, consisting of the rules given by a namesake sage to the rishis after they survive a cataclysmic flood.
According to the Laws of Manu, the life of a twice-born Hindu should be divided into these four 27-year stages. They divide a Hindu's life into stages as student, householder, hermit, and sannyasi.
Falun Gong [or Falundafa]
the Laws of Manu [or the Manu Smrti]
ashrama
Answer the following about Christian feminist theology and its opponents, for 10 points each:
In this epistle, St. Paul argues that women should remain silent in church and be submissive. Another section of this epistle claims that we see "through a glass, darkly." It is addressed to a church in Greece.
This pope issued an encyclical which banned women from singing in Church choirs. He lends his name to a far-right society which rejects the Second Vatican Council.
Although she taught at Boston College, which was run by Jesuits, this self-described "radical lesbian feminist" theologian went so far as to forbid men from enrolling in her classes. Her books include The Church and the Second Sex and Beyond God the Father.
First Epistle to the Corinthians
St. Pius X
Mary Daly
One way some birds and lizards overcome the invisible fraction is by producing more offspring. This is the term given to the number of eggs produced at a single time. It is generally higher in organisms with shorter lifespans.
Name this mystical branch of Judaism.
Often used by Kabbalists, this Jewish system of assigned numbers to letters, words and phrases can be employed to ascertain the relationships between various phrases. 
Rabbi Isaac Luria added this doctrine to Kabbalah. According to this doctrine, God had to contract his light to leave space for creation, thereby also allowing for the existence of evil.
Kabbalah 
Gematria 
tzimtzum 
These events include Hina-matsuri, in which family heirloom dolls are dressed up, and Nagoshi-no-oharai, in which farmworkers purify themselves by walking through a circle of rope. For 10 points each:
 Identify this general group of observances that also includes the coming-of-age day Seijin-no-hi and the new year, Oshogatsu.
Each Shinto festival is divided into three parts, the "welcoming," the "procession," and this final part, which shares its name and procedure with a funeral service or the prayer said over a broken object.
The Dosojin festival is held in honor of this phenomenon, which was venerated at the three great sites of Farnbag, Gushnasp, and Burzen-Mihr in another religion.
Shinto festivals [or Matsuri; or Shinto holidays, etc.]
 sending the kami back [or equivalents; or Kami-Okuri]
fire
Texts from this corpus include the explanation of its aims by Manjusri and the questions of Suvikrantavikramin. For 10 points each:
Identify this group of sutras, also including the Diamond Cutter sutra, and constituting the sixth and final part of the Mahayana "six perfections."
This popular perfection of wisdom sutra describes the enlightenment of Avalokitesvara.
The Heart Sutra explains how this concept is the true nature of every component of Buddhist theology. This word, meaning "emptiness," is the theme of the perfection of wisdom genre.
the perfection of transcendental wisdom sutras [or prajnaparamita]
Heart Sutra
sunyata
This group was founded by Nanak's son Srichand and acquired tracts of land under Ranjit Singh. For 10 points each:
Name this monastic Hindu group which broke off from Sikhism and is centered at Haridwar.
Udasi wear their hair in dreadlocks, which is similar to this Sikh principle of not cutting the hair.
In the late nineteenth century, a "reform movement" named for these structures, which are Sikh temples, kicked the Udasi out of the positions of authority they had come to hold over these places.
Udasi
kesh
gurdwaras
This woman is the last martyr described in a sequence that begins with the death of the mothers who circumcise, and she throws herself from a roof after watching Antiochus's soldiers kill her children. For 10 points each:
Give the Jewish or general descriptive name of this martyr, who resisted Hasmonean attempts to suppress Judaism.
Each of Hannah's sons was killed for refusing to perform this action, which Antiochus ordered as a sign of nonconformity to Jewish law. Eleazar was also martyred for failing to do this.
The stories of Eleazar and Hannah are found in the second book named for these people, whose overthrow of Hasmonean rule is celebrated at Hannukah.
Hannah or [the woman with seven sons]
eating pork [or obvious equivalents; prompt on breaking kosher law, etc.]
Maccabees
This group is headquartered at Rabwah, and is accused of violating the principle of "Khatem-e-Nabowat" or the finality of Mohammed's prophethood. For 10 points each:
Name this group of up to five million people, who follow a nineteenth-century reformer that they believe substituted for the second coming of Jesus, and are dubbed non-Muslims by the government.
Ahmaddiyas live in this country, where increased blasphemy prosecutions under Zia ul-Haq were often targeted at them.
Ahmaddiya leaders often challenge Pakistani politicians to this practice to determine whose religious beliefs are correct. Mohammed engaged in this practice with the Christian leader Abd al-Masih.
Ahmaddiyas
Pakistan
mubahala [or prayer duel]
The Ja'fari is the leading school of thought within this topic for Shia. For 10 points each:
Identify this general code, whose Maliki school dominates in Africa.
Ibn Tamiyah brought this school of Sharia back to popularity in Arabia, and it is the guiding madhhab of the Wahhabi movement. The strictest of the major Sharia schools, it prohibits all use of ra'y and qiyas.
Named after the first three generations of Muslims, this movement within Wahhabism seeks to emulate practices from before the fourteenth century and discourage all religious innovations.
Sharia law
Hanbali [or Hanabilah]
Salafism
This hymn begins "it is truly right to bless thee" and is named for the icon at the Mount Athos katholikon. For 10 points each:
Identify this hymn in the form of a sticheron, which is chanted three times a day in monastic services, including at the end of the Divine Liturgy.
"Axion Estin" is an important hymn in this broad denomination of Christianity, which practices the Easter Vigil.
In "Axion Estin," Mary is addressed with this title, meaning "birth-giver of God," which was approved to much controversy at the Council of Ephesus.
Axion Estin" [or "It Is Truly Meet"]
Eastern Orthodoxy
"Theotokos"
This method was advocated by the TÃ¼bingen School and condemned by Leo XIII in Providentissimus Deus. For 10 points each:
 Identify this modernist method of interpreting the Bible in historical context, the ancestor of modern approaches such as source criticism and redaction criticism.
This TÃ¼bingen School member compared Frederick William IV to Julian the Apostate in A Romantic on the Throne of the Caesars. He wrote the seminal higher criticism text The Life of Jesus Critically Examined.
In 1974, this Protestant denomination's Missouri Synod underwent the Seminex controversy, when its Concordia Seminary was fractured over John Tietjen's use of higher criticism in theology classes.
higher criticism
David Strauss
Lutheranism
Eight of these animals were sacrificed in Temple times. For 10 points each:
Name this animal described in the book of Numbers as the only way to ritually purify a priest who has come into contact with a gravesite, which is subject to strange requirements such as having no bent hairs and being burnt and mixed with cedar wood and dyed wool.
This tanna was one of the two high priests who prepared two red heifer sacrifices. This man's term was the last time that the Tetragrammaton was pronounced, and other legends state that Alexander the Great bowed down to him and agreed not to place a statue of himself in the Temple.
The spot at which red heifer sacrifices were made was dedicated by this prophet, who led Jews back from Babylon and preached against intermarriage. His namesake book was once combined with Nehemiah.
red heifer [or red cow; or parah adumah]
Simeon the Just
Ezra
This event is often commemorated in paintings showing a small child climbing a long flight of stairs, and it was the start of a nine-year residence in the Temple. For 10 points each:
Identify this event from Biblical apocrypha, celebrated by feast days in both Catholicism and Orthodoxy, in which Joachim's daughter is dedicated to God in thanks for her birth.
This mother of Mary is said in Islamic legend to have decided to conceive in old age after seeing a bird feeding its young.
This book, which contains the Lament of Anna and places the birth of Jesus in a cave, is the source for the Presentation of Mary. It is also the source for the belief that Joseph had a previous marriage and children before meeting Mary.
 the Presentation of Mary to the Temple
St. Anne [or Hanna]
Infancy Narrative of James [or Gospel of James; or Protoevangelium of James; do not accept or prompt on "Book of James," "Epistle of James," or "James"]
This system was officially introduced in a speech titled, "On Eliminating Dogmatism and Formalism", and its official monument is a granite obelisk with a flaming torch on its top.  FTPE
Identify this belief system, whose adherents participate in an annual Arriang Festival of art and gymnastics.  Year One in this system is 1912
The Juche Idea was first promulgated under this ruler, whose son proclaimed him the "eternal president of the republic".  He once ordered an assassination attempt against Park Chung-hee
The Juche Idea was founded by this man, who would defect to South Korea in 1997.  His defection prompted Kim Jong Il to set up "927 camps" to make it harder for North Koreans to leave their villages without proper documentation
Juche Idea [or Chuche Idea or Self-Reliance; prompt on "North Korean Communism", "the ideology of Kim Il-Sung", or other clear knowledge equivalents]
Kim Il-Sung [or Kim Song-Ju
Hwang Jang-yop
This term literally means "inviting" or "summoning one to submit to Allah." FTPE:
Name this term which refers to the preaching of Islam
In the early history of Islam, dawah was often used interchangeably with this term, which refers to the religious law of Islam.
This term refers to legal scholars who are considered to represent the consensus of the Muslim community, and thus mediate disputes over the interpretation of sharia.
dawah
sharia 
ulama 
Answer these questions about the life of the Buddha, FTPE
The Buddha gained enlightenment while sitting under this type of tree
Buddha gave his first sermon at Sarnath, a deer park slightly northeast of this holy site on the Ganges. That act is commemorated by the Dhamek Stupa in this city. 
In one parable, Buddha told a woman grieving for her lost child to retrieve some of this stuff from a house that had not experienced death. When every house the woman went to had experienced death, the woman could not obtain this stuff, but nevertheless learned a valuable lesson.
a bodhi tree [or a fig tree]
Varanasi [or Benares]
mustard seed 
Answer these questions with Indian words that are important in rituals, FTPE.
This term refers to the fourth day of any lunar month in the Hindu calendar. During the month of Bhaadrapada, Hindus commemorate Ganesh on this day by dipping idols of Ganesh into water
In Buddhism or Hinduism, this term refers to an offering to a god or goddess, often done inside the home. During Diwali, this kind of ritual is done to honor Lakshmi by lighting oil lamps and offering fruits, nuts, and other foodstuffs.
This is any kind of Hindu fire offering, particularly one performed during one of the sixteen samskaras, or sacraments. It also refers to a sacred medical plant in Zoroastrianism, from which liquid can be extracted, as told in the Zend Avesta. 
chaturthi
puja [or pooja]
puja [or pooja]
In his Ecclesiastical History, Eusebius states that this man castrated himself, possibly because of a literal interpretation of Matthew 19:12, or so he could instruct female students without suspicion. FTPE:  
Name this thinker who compiled a six-fold version of the Bible in parallel rows known as the Hexapla. 
After a dispute with bishop Demetrius, Origen was forced to flee to this capital of the Judea province, where the aforementioned Eusebius served as bishop.   
Origen promoted this doctrine, which states that there will eventually be a "restoration of all" in God, citing the phrase "panta es pasin" from 1st Corinthians: 28. The term itself is from Acts 3:21 and comes from Greek for "restitution" or "restoration."
Origen of Alexandria 
Caesarea Maritima 
Apocatastasis 
This group's aims were outlined in an 1876 lecture in New York City that rejected the notion of a personal god and emphasized the importance of Kantian philosophy.  For 10 points each:
Identify this organization founded by Felix Adler. Its motto was "Deed not Creed".
The Society for Ethical Culture was dominated by relapsed members of this branch of a larger faith.  Many of its early tenets were laid out by Rabbi Samuel Holdheim, who rejected traditional laws on marriage and dietary restrictions.
Meanwhile, Reconstructionist Judaism was co-founded by Ira Eisenstein and a man with this first name who wrote Judaism Without Supernaturalism.  The Biblical figure with this name helped foil an assassination plot of Teresh and Bigtan.
The Society for Ethical Culture [or American Ethical Union or Ethical Culture Movement]
Reform Judaism [prompt on "Judaism"]
Mordecai [or Mordechai]
This group's ideology of government was called chosi nyitrel. FTPE
Name this Buddhist sect that gained power by overthrowing King Tsang, a patron of the rival Karmapa sect.
The Yellow Hat sect's three main monasteries established rule over this region, whose government was based at the Potala Palace. This region is the namesake of a type of Buddhism often referred to as Vajrayana. 
Tibetan Buddhism displaced this earlier religion, which practiced yak sacrifice at funerals. Its name has also been used for later non-Buddhist religious practices in Tibet symbolized by a counterclockwise swastika
Gelugpa [or Yellow Hat sect; or Dgelugspa]
Tibet
Bon [or Bonpo]
Name some loas of Haitian voodoo, FTPE
This loa of the dead is usually depicted wearing a top hat and tuxedo, and is married to Maman Brigitte.
Aspects of this female loa, who represents love and beauty, include Freda and Dantor, and she's often syncretized with aspects of the Virgin Mary, and other Christian figures, like St. Anne and Joan of Arc. She has a team of horses who cry tears of regret. 
Most voodoo rituals begin and end by invoking this deity of the crossroads, who can speak all languages and enables communication with other loas.
Baron Samedi [be lenient on pronunciation]
Erzulie [or Ezili
Papa Legba
This work established concepts put forth in its author's later popular work like The Courage to Be and Dynamics of Faith.  FTPE:
Name this three-volume tract in which the author advances his "method of correlation" for matching Christian theology to secular philosophy. 
Systematic Theology is the major work of this Christian existentialist, who was a professor of theology at Chicago in his last three years.
In the third volume of Systematic Theology, Tillich uses this Greek term to refer to the "moment of historical maturity" that leads to the manifestation of the "center of history," or the appearance of Jesus as Christ.  This Greek term for a specific indeterminate moment in time is contrasted with chronos, which refers to sequential time.
Systematic Theology 
Paul Johannes Tillich
kairos (accept kairoi)
Pilgrims who visited this sacred building would ascend it on a path around its outer walls while passing through the world of desire, the world of forms, and the world of formlessness. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Mahayana Buddhist monument in Indonesia. 
[10] The Buddha statues of Borobudur are all seated in the lotus cross-legged pose but differ subtly in that they make different versions of these symbolic hand gestures as one ascends the complex. 
[10] The Buddha statue at the top of the Borobudur Complex is in the Dharmachakra mudra, which means that he is turning this eight-spoked symbol that represents dharma. 
ANSWER: Borobudur Complex [or Barabudur Complex] 
ANSWER: mudras
ANSWER: the dharma wheel
The Zoroastrian version of this, called frashokereti, claims that a river of metal will flow down into hell and burn the evil and finally kill Angra Mainyu. For 10 points each:
Name this religious study of the end-times that often predicts a reunification with God and the rewarding of the righteous.
At the end of frashokereti, Ahura Mazda, the Amesha Spentas, and the good will all drink this substance. This substance is prepared during the Ab-Zohr that occurs during the reading of the Yasna.
The Yasht and the Denkart describe this savior-figure who will arise from Lake Kansava to initiate frashokereti. He then will resurrect the dead on Ahura Mazda's behalf.
eschatology
haoma [or parahaoma]
Sasoshyant [or Soshans]
Name some ways to get some extra credit with God, for 10 points each.
This Arabic term denotes actions that are recommended but not mandatory for a wajib ritual to be properly performed. Examples include Saddka charity and not wasting water during wudu.
While celebrating Mass is required for Catholics, many also engage in personal devotions such as this popular Marian ritual that commemorates religious mysteries and is performed with prayer beads.
Hindus performing voluntary rituals for their religious benefits practice this type of karma, derived from one's material and carnal desires.
mustahabb
Rosary
kamya karma [or kama karma]
One interpretation of this event is that it occurred because of incest. For 10 points each:
Identify this event in which the namesake son of a biblical figure is punished for looking at his father's nudity after his father gets drunk. This concept was frequently interpreted to justify the enslavement of black Africans.
Ham was a son of this biblical figure. He repopulated the world through his children Shem, Ham, and Japheth, shortly after a worldwide disaster detailed in Genesis 6-9.
This father of Noah shares his name with a more notorious biblical figure who kills a man for wounding him, then proclaims to his two wives that "if Cain shall be avenged sevenfold," then this man should be avenged seventy-sevenfold.
Curse of Ham [accept Curse of Canaan as technically he's the one who gets cursed]
Noah
amech
It is preceded by nine days of festivities dedicated to various forms of Devi or Shakti. For 10 points each:
Identify this festival held on the tenth day of Navratri, a commemoration of Rama's victory over Ravana.
When celebrated as part of the Sharada Navratri, Dussehra falls on the tenth day of this Hindu lunar month. It shares its name with the appellation often given to Nasatya and Dasra, the twin physician sons of Vivasvat and Saranya.
The deities worshipped during Navratri include Annapurna, the goddess of nourishment, who is actually a form of this consort of Shiva and mother of Ganesha and Skanda.
Dussehra [or Dasara; or Vijayadashami]
Ashvin [or the Ashvin twins]
Parvati
Identify the following about Ra, for 10 points each.
Ra's cult center was this appropriately-named Egyptian city, where he was syncretized with his fellow sun god Atum.
The dawning-sun aspect of Ra was associated with this scarab-headed god, who is sometimes thought to be fully responsible for rolling the sun through the sky during the day and the underworld at night.
The evening-sun aspect of Ra was often associated with this ram-headed god, who was worshipped at Esna and Elephantine. He was the protector of the Nile's source, and he also created humanity on his potter's wheel.
Heliopolis [accept Iunu or "The Place of Pillars"]
Khepri [or Khepera; or Kheper; or Chepri; or Khepra]
Khnum [or Chnum; or Khnemu]
Identify the following about a surprisingly-recurrent number in Mesoamerican mythology, for 10 points each.
This group of deities included Macuiltochtli, who was also a member of the Ahuiateteo, and the axe-wielding Tepoztecatl. They were associated with pulque, which makes sense, as they were the gods of inebriation.
The Centzon Huitznahua, or "Four Hundred Southerners", were, like their sister Coyolxauhqui, the children of this Aztec goddess.
In a different myth system, the Four Hundred Boys were patron deities of alcohol who were crushed to death when Zipacna destroyed their hut. They were avenged, though, when these two Mayan brothers enticed Zipacna with a fake crab and dropped a mountain on him.
the Centzon Totochtin [or the Four Hundred Rabbits; accept synonyms for "rabbit"]
Coatlicue [for the love of god, don't accept "Chalchiuhtlicue"]
the Hero Twins [or Huhahpu and Xbalanque]
This teaching can be collapsed into the Three Noble Disciplines of conduct, concentration, and wisdom. For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist construct that outlines the method to escape suffering in its namesake number of steps.
This is the Sanskrit term for the intense meditation dictated by the Eightfold Path. In this state, the mind passes through the rupa jhanas and the arupa jhanas and eventually reaches a state of non-consciousness.
The Platform Sutra contains the parable of the lamp, which illustrates the relationship between the Three Disciplines, an important image in this sect of Buddhism.
Noble Eightfold Pathway [or Eightfold Way]
samadhi [if someone answers with jhana before said, prompt them]
Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism or a million other things]
He is often equated with the "lord of the lance" Onuris, who had to retrieve his lion consort Mekhit. For 10 points each:
Name this god spawned by Atum alongside his sister Tefnut.
Mekhit is often associated with this goddess, who was beheaded by the falcon Nemty and was known as the Mistress of Dendera. She wore the menat necklace and was sometimes known as Mehturt.
Hathor serves as the wrathful "Eye of Ra" in this New Kingdom text, which is often accompanied by a depiction of the solar barque on the back of the title animal, who is supported by Shu and various other gods.
Shu
Hathor
The Book of the Heavenly Cow [or the Book of the Cow of Heaven]
This practice is often paired with mujahadah and Tabataba'i calls it the "constant attention" which allows an individual to perceive the lights of the creatures that dwell in barzakh. For 10 points each:
Name this Sufi variant of meditation that allows the spiritual wayfarer to ascend through the maqamat, or stations, and perceive higher planes of existence.
Muqarabah allows access to the four spiritual realms characterized by this term, often translated as unity. This term is used in more mainstream Islam to describe the oneness of Allah.
Perhaps the West's most distinguished scholar of Shi'ite Islam is Henry Corbin, who wrote of the visionary recital in connection with this Golden Age author of The Canon of Medicine.
Muqarabah
Tawhid [pronunciations vary greatly across regions, so be lenient]
Avicenna [or Abu Ali al-Hussain Ibn Abdallah Ibn Sina]
Non-secret Mormon stuff, for 10 points each.
On the first Sunday of the month, every Mormon is encouraged to do this in order to be mindful of the poor. Other religious events that call for this activity include Ash Wednesday and daytime during Ramadan.
LDS Mormons don't believe in this usual Christian doctrine that was rejected as illogical by modalism and subordinationism and dudes like William Ellery Channing.
Joseph F. Smith was the first to call for this weekly event that now happens on Mondays. During it, parents and children are encouraged to bond by praying and studying scripture and Mormon ethics.
fasting [prompt on abstinence]
trinitarianism [or believing in the trinity; accept things like "God is three persons in one; ]
FHE [or Family Home Evening; prompt on family night]
Alternatives to this term in the Adi Granth include Satnamm and Purusha, and it is twice said in the traditional Sikh greeting. For 10 points each:
Give this most-common Sikh term for God that literally means "Best Teacher."
Also mentioned in the aforementioned greeting is this baptized group of Sikhs who live by the rules outlined by Gobind Singh that include the five Ks.
Since it is considered better to not even try than to fail at being a Khalsa, some Sikhs are part of this group, whose name means "slow-adopting", who follow all other rules, including avoiding the four kurahits.
Waheguru [or Vahiguru]
Khalsa [prompt on Amritdhari]
Sahajdhari
This religious group has a New Jersey-centered "orthodox"offshoot counts Warren Tartaglia among its founders. For 10 points each:
Name this American religious organization founded by Timothy, "The Noble" Drew Ali, that believes a namesake group, descen ded from the Moabites, lived in New World before the introduction of slaves.
Moorish Science lost many of its members to this religious group based in Chicago that believes its founder, Wallace Fard Muhammad, to be the Mahdi.
Slightly less odd black religious figures include James Cone, who preaches a "radical black" form of this school of theology. Others in favor of this movement include Gustavo Gutierrez and the delightfully-named Paul Gauthier.
Moorish Science Temple of American
Nation of Islam
liberation theology 
Welcome to Minnesota Open 2011: Sukkot, Everyone Else! For 10 points each.
Sukkot occurs during this month of the Hebrew calendar. The end of the cycle of Torah readings ends on Simchat Torah during this month.
This holiday falls on the seventh and last day of Sukkot and is the day when the final judgments of the year are delivered. During this day's service, the four species are paraded around the synagogue seven times.
The final judgment is set on this last of the High Holy Days, also known as the Day of Atonement.
Tishrei [or Tishri; prompt on Ethanim]
Hoshana Rabba
Yom Kippur 
Sometimes, Muslims celebrate holidays. Answer the following about that FTPE.
This holiday, celebrated by Shi'ites, occurs on the 10th of Muharram and mourns the death of Ali's son Hussain at the Battle of Karbala.
This holiday celebrates Ibrahim's willingness to sacrifice his son for Allah. Rams are sacrificed.
This other Eid, which isn't Eid ul-Fitr, celebrates Mohammad's choosing of Ali as his true successor. Obviously it is only celebrated by Shi'ites.
Day of Ashura
Eid al-Adha
Eid al-Ghadeer
