Name these foods that one might consume in a sushi restaurant, for 10 points each.
This Japanese member of the horseradish family is often ground into a paste. This green condiment is often mixed with soy sauce to create a pungent flavoring for the sushi.
This clear soup made from dashi broth is often served before eating a meal of sushi. It is named for a type of fermented soybean that is mixed into the broth.
A common delicacy in sushi is uni, which is the meat from this echinoderm. In Italian cuisine, this meat is known as ricci ("REE-chee"), and is often used as an ingredient in pasta sauces.
wasabi [prompt on Japanese horseradish]
miso soup [accept misoshiru]
sea urchins [accept sea hedgehogs; prompt on Echinoidea]  &lt;Jose, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
The use of these diagrams allows sounds to be categorized into formants. For 10 points each:
Name these diagrams made practical by computers, which show the variation in the frequency of a sound over time.
MRIs are used instead of spectrograms to study voicing, a process which distinguishes the sounds [p] and [b]. Voicing occurs if the vocal folds, which are located in this "voice box," vibrate.
On a spectrogram, consonants made by passing airflow through this structure resemble vowels. The velum controls airflow into this organ's passages, which is used to help produce the "-ang" sound in "pangs."
spectrograms [accept sonographs or voiceprints or voicegrams]
larynx
nose [accept nasal consonants]  &lt;Smith, Social Science - Linguistics&gt;
For a linear N-atom molecule the number of rotational examples of these parameters is equal to 3N minus 5. For 10 points each:
Name these entities that for a mechanical system, are the independent parameters that define the system's configuration. Joints and hinges reduce the number of these things.
A degree of freedom is lost during gimbal lock, in which two of these entities in a gimbal are placed in parallel. This term refers to the line a body rotates around.
The average kinetic energy of an atom can be computed due to this statement which assumes that the energy of a system is shared equally among a system's degrees of freedom.
degrees of freedom [or degree of freedom; or DOF]
axis [accept axes or axis of rotation]
equipartition theorem  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Physics&gt;
This food is a byword for evidence planted at the scene of a crime by a corrupt cop. For 10 points each:
Name this food that judge Sol Wachtler claimed any prosecutor could get a grand jury to indict.
In mathematics, the ham sandwich theorem in three dimensions states that one can use these items to separate any two regions of contiguous space. These objects are often defined with a point and a normal vector.
In France, the jambon-beurre ("ja-bo bir") index uses ham sandwiches to measure purchasing power parity across these systems. Exchange rates dictate how much one of these monetary systems is worth relative to another.
ham sandwich [prompt on sandwich or ham]
planes [prompt on hyperplanes]
currency [or currencies; do not accept or prompt on “cash”]  &lt;Jose, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about theories suggesting that life did not come from Earth:
In 1996 NASA scientists studying ALH 84001, one of these objects from Mars, claimed that they found what might be fossilized microbes within it. The suffix “-oid” is usually used when they are still in outer space.
Fred Hoyle used this theory, which holds that life spread through the universe by so-called "seeds," to support his view that the universe did not have a beginning and has always existed. The chemist Svante Arrhenius ("suh-FAHN-tay uh-ray-NEE-uss") was the first to propose it.
This novel, written by Carl Sagan, depicts Eleanor Arroway and her four colleagues meeting aliens at the center of the Milky Way, where they learn the nature of the universe.
meteorites [accept meteor or meteoroids; prompt on space rocks]
panspermia
Contact  &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
SILVA is a database for storing sequences of these molecules, which are useful for establishing taxonomic relationships due to their presence in nearly every cell. For 10 points each:
Name these molecules which combine with proteins to form the SSU and LSU. Pol I synthesizes the 16S variant of these molecules.
The rRNA found in the large subunit of the ribosome is considered one of these specific types of RNA molecules which can catalyze reactions.
Much like mRNA transcripts, preribosomal RNA must undergo this process of intron removal before it is functional.
rRNA [or ribosomal RNA; accept ribonucleic acid in place of RNA; prompt on RNA]
ribozymes [prompt on enzymes]
splicing [accept word forms such as splice]  &lt;Wang, Science - Biology&gt;
The impedance of these circuit components is calculated by multiplying <em>i</em> by frequency times their namesake strength. For 10 points each:
Name these electrical coils whose strength equals induced voltage divided by the time derivative of current. Their strength is measured in henries.
Inductors can be made stronger by using a core that is high in this quantity equal to magnetic flux density divided by the strength of the magnetizing field.
Inductors referred to by this term are used to block an AC signal while allowing DC signals to pass in a circuit. Inductors used for this purpose do not necessarily have high Q factors unlike ones used in filters.
inductors
magnetic permeability
choke coil  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Physics&gt;
This condition may occur secondary to Lyme disease or psoriasis ("sore-EYE-uh-sis"). For 10 points each:
Name this general term for joint inflammation. The presence of rheumatoid factor causes an autoimmune disease with this primary symptom.
Rheumatoid arthritis may be treated with medications such as etanercept ("uh-TAN-ur-sept") or adalimumab ("ade-uh-LIM-yoo-mab") which inhibit this inflammatory cytokine.
This form of inflammatory arthritis occurs due to the buildup of uric acid. Attacks of this condition typically manifest at the big toe.
arthritis
TNF alpha [or tumor necrosis factor alpha; or cachectin]
gout [accept gouty arthritis]  &lt;Wang, Science - Biology&gt;
An "orphan" one of these objects is one whose "parent" has finished executing, and will be usually reclaimed by an "init" function. For 10 points each:
Name these units of execution. Threads are often said to be "subsets" of these units since they share the same memory pool.
This kind of program manages a computer's processes. This program is responsible for how a computer's hardware and software interact, and examples of them include Linux and macOS.
Controlling communication between processes might be accomplished by one of these structures that connects two processes, which can be made by a system call of the same name.
processes [accept orphan processes]
operating systems [prompt on OS]
pipes  &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
Compounds containing this group of elements are often used as fluorinating agents because they have very little risk of forming side products. For 10 points each:
Name this group of elements that mainly react with fluorine and oxygen, though the first compound including one was actually it in a salt with a hexachloroplatinate.
In xenon hexachloroplatinate salt, the xenon is expected to have this ionic charge. Oxygen acquires this formal charge when it forms three bonds.
Platinum is considered a noble metal since it's so unreactive. In fact, until May 2019, a bar composed of a mixture of it and iridium was used as the basis for what SI base unit of mass?
noble gases [accept inert gases or Group 18 elements]
+1 [accept plus one or positive one; prompt on one]
kilogram [accept kg; do not accept or prompt on "gram"]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
A proposed superphylum in this domain called Asgard has proposed phyla named for Loki, Thor, and Heimdall. For 10 points each:
Name this domain of microbes that lack peptidoglycan in their cell walls and have no organelles. Carl Woese and George Fox identified them as a separate domain using 16S rRNA sequencing.
Many archaea are described as these kinds of organisms that live in very harsh environments, like very hot or very salty places. Give the generic term applying to organisms in any harsh environment.
Coenzyme B and Coenzyme M, among others, are among the coenzymes found uniquely among archaea that produce this compound, usually under anaerobic conditions, as in many wetlands.
archaea [or archaebacteria; do not accept "bacteria"]
extremophiles [or extremophilic]
methane [or CH4]  &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about devices used to gather data in astronomy:
For many decades, astronomers relied on photographic plates to take pictures of the sky. This moon was discovered when James Christie noticed a "bulge" on a photographic plate of Pluto.
George Smith and Willard Boyle invented these devices that image an object by capturing electrons in potential wells, and "shifting" the contents of the wells to create a read-out.
This technique combines multiple beams of light to produce a pattern that provides data from an astronomical object. LIGO uses this technique to detect gravitational waves.
Charon
charge coupled device [accept CCD]
interferometry [accept interferometer; accept laser interferometry or laser interferometer]  &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
Coomassie blue, methanol, and phosphoric acid constitute a popular reagent used to measure the concentration of these molecules. For 10 points each:
Name these molecules whose concentration is measured using a Bradford assay or, more simply, a spectrophotometer set to 280 nanometers.
The cuvettes used in spectrophotometry often have this path length in order to simplify calculations. Molar absorptivity is often given dimensions of inverse molarity times the reciprocal of this length.
Though the Bradford assay measures absorbance in the visible spectrum, 280 nanometers falls in this part of the spectrum, which has slightly shorter wavelength and higher energy.
proteins [accept polypeptides; do not accept or prompt on "amino acids"]
one centimeter [or one cm]
ultraviolet [or UV]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
The ITER ("EE-tur") will be the world's largest device of this type, with testing scheduled to begin in 2025. For 10 points each:
Name these devices which use magnetic fields to trap plasma in the shape of a torus so it can be heated to super-high temperatures without destroying everything around it.
Tokamaks are one of the leading candidates to produce electrical power by this elusive process, which usually combines the deuterium and tritium isotopes of hydrogen to create helium.
Plasmas cannot be confined by purely electrostatic fields due to this theorem, which states that there is no way to arrange electric charges in a stable stationary equilibrium.
tokamaks [prompt on, but do not reveal, nuclear reactors; prompt on but DO NOT REVEAL fusion reactor]
nuclear fusion
Earnshaw's theorem  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
The binding of this protein to V2 receptors stimulates production of aquaporin-2 channels, which insert into the luminal membranes of the collecting duct. For ten points each:
Name this hormone that triggers reabsorption of water from the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts of the kidney.
Secretion of vasopressin into the kidneys increases the osmolarity of this substance, which is overproduced during diuresis. Supersaturation of this fluid leads to the formation of kidney stones.
The central and nephrogenic forms of this condition are respectively caused by a deficiency of and sensitivity to vasopressin.
vasopressin [or antidiuretic hormone; or ADH; accept arginine vasopressin; or AVP; or argipressin]
urine [accept obvious equivalents; do not accept or prompt on “urea”]
diabetes insipidus [prompt on diabetes; prompt on DI; do not accept or prompt on "diabetes mellitus", "type I diabetes", "type II diabetes" or "gestational diabetes"]  &lt;Narayan, Science - Biology&gt;
This class of techniques separates complex mixtures before they're put onto a mass spectrometer. For 10 points each:
Name this class of techniques that rely on a column to which analytes bind with differing affinity, causing them to migrate at different speeds.
Since mass spec can't resolve compounds that have this property, they must be first differentiated using chromatography. Pairs of compounds with this property form racemic ("ray-SEE-mic") mixtures.
In practice, the eluent ("ELL-you-went") from a chromatography column is not collected continuously, but rather, it is separated into these small aliquots, collected in vials, that are fed one-by-one into the mass spectrometer.
chromatography [accept specific forms of chromatography]
chirality [or word forms; or enantiomers or word forms; prompt on stereoisomers]
chromatography fractions [do not accept or prompt on synonyms]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the mathematical concept of cardinality.
Cardinality is often taught as the the number of elements in one of these unordered collections. The  empty "one" has a cardinality of zero.
This operation takes two sets and generates a new set by taking ordered pairs consisting of elements from each set. For sets that have cardinality A and B, this operation returns a set whose cardinality is A times B.
Both the natural numbers and the real numbers have an infinite cardinality, but the cardinality of the real numbers is often said to be greater since they have this property of not being able to be enumerated.
sets
Cartesian product [prompt on product]
uncountable [accept uncountably infinite]  &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
The speed of these entities increase as their energy decreases. For 10 points each:
Name these hypothetical particles which are contrasted with bradyons and luxons. They could be used to construct a hypothetical causality violating "anti-telephone."
Tachyons are named for travelling faster than this universal speed limit. It is approximately 300 million meters per second.
In the paper that coined the term "tachyon," Gerald Feinberg proposed that their mass has this property, which is implied by the energy-momentum relation.
tachyons
speed of light in a vacuum [prompt on c]
imaginary mass [accept complex mass]  &lt;Wang, Science - Physics&gt;
The Nagant M1895 is one of the only revolvers compatible with these devices because it uses a gas seal to reduce the report emitted from the cylinder gap. For 10 points each:
Name these devices, legal in most states following an ATF background check. One type of these objects is named for a comparison to a soda can.
Hiram Percy Maxim invented both silencers and these components of an engine's exhaust system that decrease noise by converting some of the sound energy to heat.
Resonators named for this man are used in mufflers to change the characteristic of the sound wave. This inventor of the ophthalmoscope ("op-THALM-oh-scope") also names a coil that produces a uniform magnetic field.
silencer [or sound suppressor; or sound moderator; or can silencer]
mufflers [generously prompt on silencers as they're called that in the UK]
Hermann von Helmholtz [accept Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand von Helmholtz]  &lt;Smart, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
In the cluster form of this technique, a population is divided into groups that are heterogeneous within a cluster. For 10 points each:
Name this process of choosing a portion of a population. It can be done "with replacement" or "without replacement."
The appropriate way to sample is often studied as part of this subfield of mathematics concerned with collecting and analyzing data. It is often paired with probability.
This discrete probability distribution models g successes when sampling n items from a group without replacement. It is commonly used to model drawing cards from a deck.
sampling [accept word forms such as sample; accept sampling without replacement or sampling with replacement]
statistics [accept stats]
hypergeometric distribution  &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
In traditional cladistics, members of groups with this property have shared derived characteristics called synapomorphies. For 10 points each:
Name this property possessed by a clade. It describes any taxonomic group that includes all descendents of a common ancestor.
Groups of organisms that are not monophyletic may be incorrectly joined together due to this process, in which evolutionary lineages separately evolve similar characteristics.
A famous example of a group that is not monophyletic is this taxonomic kingdom, which includes eukaryotes that are not animals, plants, or fungi. Diatoms and amoebas belong to this kingdom, which is paraphyletic.
monophyly [accept word forms like monophyletic]
convergent evolution [accept evolutionary convergence or homoplasy]
Protista [accept protists or Protoctista]  &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
This is the only known interaction capable of changing particle flavor. For 10 points each:
Name this fundamental force responsible for radioactive decay. It is carried by the W and Z bosons.
The weak force violates this symmetry, which is the invariance of the equations of physics under a change in one coordinate sign. Interactions that obey this symmetry behave the same way in left- and right-handed worlds.
This Chinese-American physicist verified parity violation experimentally by studying beta decay from cobalt. She did not share the Nobel with Lee and Yang for her work.
weak force [or weak nuclear force; accept "interaction" in place of "force"]
parity [prompt on P]
Chien-Shiung Wu  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
Like enthalpy and entropy, this quantity is defined to be zero for the formation of pure elements at their standard states. For 10 points each:
Name this form of free energy defined as enthalpy minus temperature times entropy.
The actual free energy change in a process is calculated by taking the difference in the standard free energies of formation, products minus reactants, and adding to it: RT, multiplied by what concentration-dependent term?
You can use that result to get to the Nernst equation in one step, dividing everything through by the negative product of these two variables, which form the denominator of the RT term in the Nernst equation. Symbols are fine.
Gibbs free energy [prompt on G]
natural logarithm of the reaction quotient [or log Q; or ln Q; prompt on natural logarithm or ln; do not accept or prompt on just "Q" or "reaction quotient"]
number of moles of electrons times Faraday's constant [accept nF; accept answers that indicate the number of moles of electrons transferred times Faraday's constant; prompt on answers containing electrons and Faraday’s constant but not “number” or “moles”]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Type IA and Type II supernovae have some major differences. For 10 points each:
Astronomers often distinguish between Type IA and Type II supernovae by examining these graphs, which plot absolute magnitude, or intensity, against time.
Type IA supernovae, but not Type II, are detected via different types of the "emission" and "absorption" kinds of these features. One indicating the presence of iron is prevalent in Type IA supernovae.
Type IA supernovae are caused by thermal runaway, while Type II result from this general process occurring in a large star. This process begins after the iron component of a star buckles under the weight of the star's gravity.
light curves
spectral lines [prompt on lines or spectra]
core collapse [prompt on collapse]  &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
Answer the following about protein glycosylation, for 10 points each:
In eukaryotes, it occurs mainly in the endoplasmic reticulum and this organelle, which is where proteins are packaged into vesicles for extracellular transport.
Because E. coli has no native glycosylation machinery, Chinese hamster ovary cells are instead typically used in industrial production of these heavily glycosylated proteins, which are called biologics in the pharmaceutical industry.
All human glycans begin with this sugar residue attached to an asparagine in the protein. This sugar alternates with N-acetylmuramic acid in peptidoglycan and is the monomer of chitin.
Golgi apparatus [or Golgi body; or Golgi complex]
monoclonal antibodies [or immunoglobulins; accept mabs; or Igs]
N-acetylglucosamine [or NAG; or GlcNAc]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
Consider a reaction in which some atom called A dimerizes into a new molecule called A2. For 10 points each:
If the reaction occurs in a single elementary step, then the reaction rate depends on what function of the molarity of A?
If the reaction is not elementary, then determining the rate law requires a mechanism, particularly, knowing the step of the mechanism that has this attribute, meaning that it is rate-determining. A description is fine.
Collision theory actually predicts that, for reactions with low activation energy, the rate constant increases with this function of temperature, since average molecular velocity scales with this function of temperature.
molarity of A squared [or raised to the second power; or equivalents]
it's the slowest step [or the slowest reaction; or the smallest rate; or other equivalents]
square root of temperature [or temperature to the one-half power]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
For a finite potential well, this operator is equivalent to scalar multiplication by a piecewise defined function. For 10 points each:
Name this operator. For a quantum harmonic oscillator this operator is proportional to the square of the position operator.
The Hamiltonian operator is equal to the potential energy operator plus the operator for this other form of energy, which in classical mechanics is equal to one half mv 2.
In this system, the potential energy operator is multiplication by a constant that is usually taken to be zero. The energy levels of this system are not quantized and can be any non-negative real number.
potential energy operator [do not accept "energy" operator]
kinetic energy [accept kinetic energy operator]
free particle [accept no potential or uniform potential]  &lt;French, Science - Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about various coding anti-patterns, or common bad designs in code:
An anti-pattern amusingly called "shooting the messenger" is the usage of these things in response to legitimate input. It is common to write blocks of code using the keywords "try" and "finally" to structure code to deal with them.
Another anti-pattern is to declare variables in this scope, which affects the entirety of a program. Declaring a same-named variable in a subroutine will collide with this kind of variable.
Global variables are often accompanied by these pieces of text which purport to explain what a program does; that's also an anti-pattern since code should be self-documenting.
exceptions [prompt on errors]
global scope [accept global variable]
comments  &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
Answer the following about discoveries made during solar eclipses, for 10 points each.
French astronomer Jules Janssen first detected this second-lightest element when he examined the Sun's chromosphere during a total solar eclipse in India.
This physicist's observations of the apparent positions of stars during a 1919 total solar eclipse was one of several tests that confirmed Einstein's theory of general relativity.
These accumulations of cold gas suspended in the Sun's atmosphere by its magnetic field were first described in the Russian Primary Chronicle following a medieval solar eclipse. Their dissolution may cause CMEs.
helium [or He]
Arthur Eddington [or Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington]
solar prominences  &lt;Raje, Science - Astronomy&gt;
Chinese customers really hate a smell named for new examples of these products which may derive from the "off-gasing" of volatile organic compounds. For 10 points each:
Name these products manufactured by Chinese companies such as FAW and Dongfeng. In 1952, German emigre Julius Sämann developed Little Trees to make these objects smell better.
The company AromaSys made a smell reminiscent of Northern Italy for the Bellagio, one of the hotels on this city's namesake strip.
Ernest Beaux used this valuable substance to create Coco Chanel's "No. 5" perfume. This substance is often found floating in the sea since it is expelled by sperm whales.
cars [or new cars; or automobiles; or trucks; or motor cars]
Las Vegas [accept Paradise, Nevada]
ambergris [or ambergrease; or gray amber]  &lt;Jose, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
Before the year 2012, these documents had the word "Material" prepended to their names. For 10 points each:
Name these documents that outline all of the risks associated with a particular chemical. The Right-to-Know Act requires all chemical laboratories to have them available to workers upon request.
In addition to the requirement for SDSs, OSHA requires pictograms set by the Globally Harmonized System to appear on all dangerous chemicals. For instance, the GHS pictogram for an irritant is what symbol?
Perhaps more self-evidently, a skull and crossbones pictogram represents that a compound has what property?
safety data sheets [or material safety data sheets; or SDSs; or MSDSs]
exclamation point [or exclamation mark]
lethality [or toxicity; or poisonous; or it causes death; or any other word forms or exact synonyms]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Some of these devices might have an outer layer made from spin-coated tantalum or titanium that reacts as an antireflection agent. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices which produce energy without a chemical reaction. Most of the thickness of these devices comes from the absorber layer.
Solar cells are manufactured in much the same way as these devices, which let current pass in primarily one direction.
Building on the work of Russell Ohl, Soviet scientist Vadim Lashkaryov discovered this type of interface while working with silver sulfide solar cells. A depletion region is found in these interfaces.
solar cells [or photovoltaic cells; or solar batteries]
diodes
p-n junctions  &lt;Bentley, Science - Physics&gt;
The ENCODE project sought to study the function of the large stretches of this molecule that does not code for proteins. For 10 points each:
Name this biological molecule that is used as a template during transcription.
This term denotes the amount of DNA contained within a cell, expressed either in mass or in base pairs. It is often used interchangeably with the more specific term C-value.
The C-value paradox asks why genome size does not correlate with organismal complexity. One potential resolution to the paradox is that much of that variation is driven by non-functional DNA, which is often described by this controversial four-letter term.
DNA [or deoxyribonucleic acid; prompt on nucleic acid; do not accept or prompt on "ribonucleic acid"]
genome size
junk DNA  &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
This kind of set is used to generate contour lines. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of set defined by choosing inputs to a function so that the function outputs a constant value. These sets are often taught when studying multivariate calculus, and give their name to namesake "surfaces" generated from them.
A theorem from calculus states that if a function is differentiable, this operation at any point will either be zero or perpendicular to the level set. This operation is represented with the nabla symbol.
Because it shows points where all inputs are equal, a level surface is sometimes described using this three letter prefix. It appears in the name of a type of triangle where two sides are of the same length.
level sets [accept level set or level surface]
gradient [prompt on del]
iso- [accept iso-surface or isosceles]  &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
Carnitine acyltransferase moves acyl to the mitochondria when this process begins in the peroxisome. For 10 points each:
Name this biochemical pathway which breaks down fatty acids. Thiolase is used in this pathway repeatedly to convert the fatty acids into acetyl-CoA.
One equivalent of this reduced cofactor is produced in an instance of the beta-oxidation cycle. Three equivalents of this electron carrier are produced in one turn of the Krebs cycle.
NADH later feeds into this set of complexes found in the inner mitochondrial membrane that carry out oxidative phosphorylation.
beta oxidation
NADH [or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide; do not accept or prompt on answers containing a "plus" such as "NAD+"]
electron transport chain [or ETC]  &lt;Jose, Science - Biology&gt;
Transitions due to this phenomenon can be distinguished from excited state pi transitions by observing solvatochromism. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon found in a namesake class of complexes that may be metal to ligand or ligand to metal. Transitions due to this phenomenon create extremely intense absorption bands.
Charge transfers can be analyzed using a form of Raman spectroscopy that induces this phenomenon with a tunable laser. A separate phenomenon with this name may describe molecules with various contributing structures.
Resonance structures are present in molecules that cannot be described by this chemist's namesake dot structures.
charge transfer
resonance
Gilbert Newton Lewis  &lt;Wang, Science - Chemistry&gt;
This problem arises from an erroneous treatment of changing reference frames. For 10 points each:
Name this conundrum that asks why a spacefaring traveler will end up younger than her earthbound counterpart when they each can claim that she is stationary while the other is moving.
The twin paradox is a classic problem in this theory developed by Einstein based on the fact that the speed of light is constant in all inertial frames. Unlike its general counterpart, it ignores gravity.
The ratios between the two times observed can be conveniently written using the Lorentz factor, which is equal to one over the square root of this function. The answer will be in terms of v and c.
twin paradox
special relativity [or SR; prompt on relativity]
1 - v2/c2 [or 1 - (v/c)2; accept one minus v squared over c squared; accept one minus quantity v over c squared or equivalents]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
Texas representative Pete Olson has proposed a bill that would require a financial investigation be done prior to this list being expanded. For 10 points each:
Give this list created by a namesake 1973 bill. Gray wolves in the Rockies were removed from this list in 2011 after their numbers recovered.
In 2018, one of these endangered species known as J35 went on a "tour of grief" in the waters near Seattle and Vancouver.
This other environmental legislation from the 1970s was strengthened by a 2015 Obama Administration ruling that expanded its scope to wetlands and ephemeral streams. Scott Pruitt's EPA rolled back the expansions to this law.
Endangered Species list
orca [or killer whale; or Orcinus orca; prompt on whale]
Clean Water Act [or Federal Water Pollution Control Act; or FWPCA; or CWA]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - U.S.&gt;
Contrary to common myth, the Coriolis force does not determine which way water spins down the drain. For 10 points each:
The Coriolis force is required when using rotating coordinate systems in order for this law to hold. It is typically stated as f equals ma.
The orientation of a rigid body, or a rotating coordinate system, with respect to a fixed system can be described by this set of three angles. Aircraft generally call them roll, pitch, and yaw.
For a body in a rotating reference frame, the Coriolis force equals negative 2 times mass times this composite quantity. Give your answer in terms of the reference frame's angular velocity, "omega," and the body's velocity, "v," relative to the reference frame.
Newton's 2nd law
Euler angles
omega cross v [do not accept "v cross omega"]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
This principle basically uses gravity and centrifugal forces to remove a particle with a different density from a medium. For 10 points each:
Name this principle, which is the use of vortices to remove particles from a gas or liquid. It is used in sawmills to remove sawdust from the air.
After observing cyclonic separation in sawmills, this British inventor made his fortune by using cyclonic separation in making bagless vacuum cleaners.
Cyclonic separation is also used to help filter out infectants from this material. After cyclonic separation, this material is treated with activated carbon before undergoing reclamation.
cyclonic separation [prompt on separation]
James Dyson
wastewater [accept sewage; prompt on water]  &lt;Jose, Science - Engineering and Miscellaneous&gt;
The unbound states of the Morse potential account for the breaking of these entities. For 10 points each:
Name these interactions which link together atoms which share their outer electrons.
Covalent bonds may break via this mechanism in which the resulting molecular fragments each obtain a single electron, forming a pair of radicals.
The vibrations of molecular bonds may be analyzed using this technique which measures their energies with light with wavenumbers typically between 400 and 4000 inverse centimeters.
covalent bonds [accept dative bonds]
homolytic cleavage [accept homolysis; accept radical fission]
IR spectroscopy [accept infrared spectroscopy]  &lt;Wang, Science - Chemistry&gt;
The cremaster muscle's role is to maintain the narrow temperature window in which this process can occur. For 10 points each:
Name or describe this specialized form of meiosis that occurs in the seminiferous tubules and produces cells that later migrate to the epididymis.
Follicle-stimulating hormone can induce spermatogenesis along with this more common male sex hormone, which also results in most male secondary sex characteristics.
In males, luteinizing hormone stimulates testosterone release by Leydig cells, but is itself activated by this other hormone, a decapeptide synthesized in the anterior pituitary.
sperm formation [or spermatogenesis; or any answers indicating formation of sperm cells or spermatogonia]
testosterone
gonadotropin-releasing hormone [or GnRH]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
One of the proposed "good" tipping points of Earth's climate is the large-scale greening of these regions. For 10 points each:
Name these regions which are characterized by relatively low amounts of rainfall. The Koppen system classifies these regions as "arid" and "semi-arid."
One proposal for desert greening calls for this method of inducing rainfall by adding nuclei to clouds. Its invention is credited to Bernard Vonnegut, the brother of the novelist Kurt.
Another proposal calls for the addition of these kinds of plants to deserts, such as switchgrass and lizard tail. As indicated by their name, these plants extract their nutrients from very saline water.
deserts
cloud seeding [accept cloud seeds or other word forms]
halophytes [do not accept or prompt on "halophile"]  &lt;Jose, Science - Earth&gt;
Contrary to popular opinion, water is a terrible solvent. For 10 points each:
Water cannot dissolve compounds just containing these two elements and no heteroatoms besides them. These two elements are the only ones found in alkanes.
If you are trying to dissolve hydrocarbons, you should try this liquid hydrocarbon, which is widely used as the nonpolar phase in chromatography. It's the straight-chain isomer of dimethyl-butane.
This solvent is popular for dissolving both polar and nonpolar compounds, though it has the nasty habit of also dissolving nitrile gloves. It's essentially acetone, but with a sulfur atom in place of the central carbon.
carbon AND hydrogen [or hydrocarbons; or C and H; any order is acceptable]
n-hexane
DMSO [or dimethyl sulfoxide]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Many anaerobic organisms generate energy via this pathway, which consists of glycolysis followed by extra steps to regenerate NAD+ for more rounds of glycolysis. For 10 points each:
Name this biochemical pathway, which produces lactic acid in humans and ethanol in yeast.
This term, contrasted with "facultative," describes anaerobic organisms which can only grow in the absence of oxygen.
In order for an organism to tolerate oxygen, it must possess several enzymes to degrade various radical-forming oxygen compounds, such as peroxides and superoxides. This three-word term collectively describes those free radicals, which can cause major oxidative damage.
fermentation
obligate anaerobes
reactive oxygen species or ROS  &lt;Busse, Science - Biology&gt;
A concave lens will produce an image of this type whose rays appear to diverge from the focal point on the far side. For 10 points each:
Name these images which, unlike their real counterparts, cannot be projected.
A real inverted image will have a negative value for this quantity, which is equal to the image distance divided by the object distance provided both image and object are in the same medium.
More complex lens assemblies are often analyzed using these 2-by-2 matrices. These matrices act on column vectors whose top component is the distance from the axis and whose bottom element is the angle.
virtual images
magnification
ray transfer matrices [or ABCD matrices]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
In the 1930s the geologist George Chadwick coined the term Phanerozoic to describe a long period of Earth's geological time. For 10 points each:
The Phanerozoic is one of these units of time divided into Cenozoic, Mesozoic, and Paleozoic eras. Geologists currently recognize four of them.
Chadwick distinguished the Phanerozoic from the Cryptozoic Eon because this entity is "visible" in the geologic record. Stromatolites are rocks that provide evidence of this concept, which many geologists agree began around 3 and a half billion years ago.
The earliest record of life in the Phanerozoic are the trace fossils of the animal Treptichnus. Those fossils were made when the Treptichnus animal performed this unusual action.
eons
life [accept biota]
burrowing [accept digging or going underground]  &lt;Jose, Science - Earth&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about integrating and differentiating functions whose outputs are either 0 or 1:
Differentiating this piecewise defined function will yield the sign function. For a positive number a, this function returns a, and for values of negative a, it also returns a.
A version of this type of "function" named for Oliver Heaviside is defined as the integral of the Dirac delta function. These functions consist of pairwise-disjoint intervals.
Riemann integrals do not exist for this rather bizarre function, which outputs 0 for irrational numbers, and 1 for rational ones. However, it is possible to Lebesgue (luh-BAYG) integrate it.
absolute value function [or modulus]
step functions [accept equivalents mentioning steps functions]
Dirichlet function  &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
Unlike enhancers, these sequences must be found just upstream of their target. For 10 points each:
Name these sequences, the binding targets of RNA polymerase enzymes.
This process's namesake "factors" are proteins that regulate the binding of RNA polymerase to a promoter. In this process, mRNA is synthesized from DNA.
This 12-letter adjective describes a gene which is always transcriptionally expressed, regardless of the presence or absence of a regulatory molecule. In a common example, mutants of the lac operon with a defective lacI or lacO gene will be expressed in this manner.
promoters
transcription [accept transcription factors]
constitutive expression [accept constitutively expressed]  &lt;Busse, Science - Biology&gt;
One strain of this virus is named for its discovery in Reston, Virginia. For 10 points each:
Name this extremely deadly virus that causes a namesake hemorrhagic fever. There was a large outbreak of this virus in West Africa in 2016, spawning fears of it spreading to the United States.
Ebola and Marburg viruses belong to this general class of viruses named for their U and 6 shaped particles.
Besides primates and bats, these animals of genus Sus are the only other carriers of filoviruses. Eating raw meat from these domesticated animals containing Trichinella larvae is the most common cause of trichinosis ("TRICK-in-OH-sis").
Ebolavirus
filoviruses [accept Filoviridae]
pigs [accept pork; accept hogs; accept swine]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Biology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the position of the Sun in the sky:
This is the name of the graph formed by plotting the Sun's position at the same time each day, from a fixed point for a year. It is typically shaped like a lemniscate, or a figure-eight.
One of the reasons why the analemma isn't just a single point is because of this feature of Earth's orbit. This phenomenon currently measures 23.5 degrees and is responsible for the seasons.
The points of middle height on an analemma correspond to these events throughout the year. These events occur when the ecliptic intersects with the celestial equator.
analemma
Earth's tilt [or obliquity]
equinoxes [accept vernal or autumnal equinox]  &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
Texas carbons are named because they form this many bonds, because everything is bigger in Texas. For 10 points each:
Give this number, which is one more than carbon's usual valence, as well as one more than the number of bonds it forms in most molecules.
Though Texas carbons are usually the result of chemistry students doing lazy counting, a similar structure forms in the transition state of an SN2 reaction, resulting in a central carbon possessing this molecular geometry.
A pentavalent carbonium atom would be one of these compounds, which donate protons even to H2SO4. A common example of these compounds is made by reacting HF with antimony pentafluoride.
five [or 5]
trigonal bipyramidal [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
superacids [prompt on acids]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
For a block and tackle, the ideal type of this quantity equals the number of sections of rope that support the moving block. For 10 points each:
Name this ratio of output force to input force for a simple machine.
The ratio of actual to ideal mechanical advantages is given this name. A quantity of this name has a maximum value of 1 minus the ratio of cold to hot reservoir temperatures according to Carnot's theorem.
The ideal mechanical advantage of a frictionless inclined plane is equal to this function of the angle of inclination.
mechanical advantage [accept ideal mechanical advantage; accept actual mechanical advantage]
efficiency
cosecant [or csc; do not accept or prompt on "secant" or "sec"]  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Physics&gt;
In an analog of the Q-cycle, this molecule binds to the p side of the cytochrome b<sub>6</sub>f complex. For 10 points each:
Name this molecule, which receives two electrons from the oxygen-evolving complex in photosystem II. It is functionally similar to a different mitochondrial electron carrier called coenzyme Q10.
Plastoquinone and photosystems I and II localize to the membranes of these sacs, which are connected by lamellae. Protons are passed to the lumina of these plastid structures prior to chemiosmosis.
Antenna complexes at the center of photosystems I and II are abundant in this green pigment, which absorbs light energy for the oxidation of water.
plastoquinone [or plastoquinol; or PQ]
thylakoids
chlorophyll [or chlorophyll A; or chlorophyll B]  &lt;Narayan, Science - Biology&gt;
Three of these values are extremely high in the oxytriquinane ion. For 10 points each:
Name this value which typically tends to be in the 100 to 200 picometer range. This value is equal to twice the covalent radius.
Due to electron delocalization, this simplest aromatic compound's six carbon-carbon bonds have lengths between that of single and double bonds.
Aromatic compounds such as benzene may dimerize through this interaction, which may manifest itself as "pancake bonding". It may occur in sandwich or t-shaped conformations.
bond length [accept bond distance]
benzene
pi stacking [accept pi-pi stacking]  &lt;Wang, Science - Chemistry&gt;
One consequence of this result is that the namesake structure can be treated as a point mass at its center when calculating gravity's effect on other objects. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem which states that all points inside a spherically symmetric ball will never be affected by the ball's gravitational field.
The shell theorem can be derived by using this law, which relates the surface integral over an object times little g to negative 4 pi times big G times its mass. In the case of point masses it is equivalent to Newton's law of universal gravitation
In general, a shell theorem exists for this kind of law, in which some quantity falls off at a rate of one over r2.
shell theorem
Gauss's law for gravity
inverse square law  &lt;Jose, Science - Physics&gt;
The one-dimensional case of the Brouwer fixed point theorem can be proven by applying this theorem to a continuous function minus the identity function. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem, which states that any continuous function on an interval attains all values between its maximum and minimum.
The intermediate value theorem follows from the fact that this topological property is preserved by continuous functions. A set has this property if no nontrivial subset is both closed and open.
The intermediate value theorem does not apply over this set of numbers since it is not completed. Often designated with a "Q" these numbers can be expressed as the ratio of two integers.
intermediate value theorem [or Bolzano's theorem; or IVT]
connectedness
rational numbers [or rationals]  &lt;Morrison, Science - Math&gt;
The circular form of this property requires the perpendicular components of the fields to be equal in magnitude and 90 degrees out of phase. For 10 points each:
Name this property of electromagnetic waves which describes the orientations of the electric and magnetic fields in space. It also comes in linear and elliptical types.
A linearly polarized wave can be converted to a circularly polarized one or vice versa using one of these devices, which induce a 90-degree phase difference to passing waves.
The anisotropic materials used in quarter-wave plates are said to have this property, meaning they refract light differently depending on the direction of the light.
polarization
quarter-wave plate [prompt on wave plate or retarder]
birefringent [or birefringence]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
This quantity over the gas constant is the slope of a van't Hoff-style plot whose y-axis is the log of the rate constant, not the equilibrium constant. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, the energy required to bring reactants to the transition state and initiate a reaction.
In reality, for exothermic reactions, the reaction rate increases super-exponentially due to this dangerous effect, in which the released heat increases temperature in a positive feedback loop.
One reason for thermal runaway is that the rate of this process also increases exponentially with temperature. This process caps how fast catalytically perfect reactions can occur.
activation energy
runaway reaction [accept thermal runaway]
diffusion [prompt on mass transport]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Positive and negative clonal selection steps occur during this process. For 10 points each:
Give the term commonly used for this process by which thymocytes begin to differentiate and express a T cell receptor, CD4, or CD8 on their surfaces. This same word is used to describe a process in which B cells produce stronger antibodies in response to an infection.
T cells are named for the fact that they mature in this organ, a small bilobed structure in the upper chest.
Affinity maturation is driven by the ability of B cells to rapidly accelerate the rate of this process by expressing cytidine deaminase. Alkylating agents typically increase the rate of this process in cells.
T cell maturation [or affinity maturation]
thymus
rate of mutation [or word forms]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
In April 2019, the <em>New York Times</em> reported that <em>Candida auris</em>, a highly drug-resistant and nearly ineradicable organism in this kingdom, had invaded several Chicago-area hospitals. For 10 points each:
Name this eukaryotic kingdom whose pathogens include the causative agents of thrush and Aspergillus infections.
Candida auris is so new, that this process has yet to be completely done to it, making targeted therapies difficult. This process involves finalizing a draft genome sequence by recombining the fragments read out during NGS.
What we do know is that C. auris is in this fungal phylum, which contains sac-like fungi. S. cerevisiae is in this most common fungal phylum.
Fungi [or fungus; or word forms]
genome assembly
Ascomycota [accept ascomycetes]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
The Langevin equation was initially developed to model this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this seemingly random motion of particles in a liquid. It was first observed by its namesake while viewing pollen in water.
According to Einstein's model of Brownian motion, the mean squared displacement equals 2 times the product of time and this quantity. The Einstein relation states this quantity equals the product of mobility, Boltzmann's constant, and the temperature.
Because at time zero the displacement of a particle must be zero, the initial condition of the probability distribution for Brownian motion is this impulse function.
Brownian motion [accept pedesis]
diffusion coefficient [accept diffusion constant or mass diffusivity]
Dirac delta function  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Physics&gt;
E.O. Wilson's claim in a 2012 book that humans demonstrate this behavior was widely panned. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of behavior defined by cooperative brood care, overlapping generations, and sexual division of labor. It is displayed by Hymenopterans such as bees and ants.
The existence of non-Hymenopteran eusocial species like the naked mole rat troubles a hypothesis that this genetic characteristic of ants and bees led to the evolution of eusociality.
Ants and bees compromise Hymenoptera along with these eusocial stinging insects with a namesake constricted waist. Their largest members are hornets.
eusociality
haplodiploidy
wasps [accept Apocrita]  &lt;Smith, Science - Biology&gt;
The extrusive equivalent of this igneous rock is rhyolite. For 10 points each.
Name this igneous rock. This intrusive rock comprises much of the Earth's continental crust.
Granite is often classified as a felsic rock, meaning that it contains 69% or more of this element's dioxide. Citrine and amethyst are varieties of a rock also made from this element's dioxide.
Decreasing the amount of silicon dioxide in granite will create this other rock, which has more silicon dioxide than gabbro. This rock's extreme hardness explains why so many artifacts, such as the Code of Hammurabi, are made from it.
granite
silicon [accept silicon dioxide]
diorite  &lt;Jose, Science - Earth&gt;
Met·hemoglobinemia is caused in infants exposed to this ion in drinking water at concentrations above 10 parts per million. For 10 points each:
Name this anion. Along with cations composed of alkali metals or ammonium, salts containing either this anion or chlorate are always water-soluble.
Because of its extremely high solubility, accurately preparing nitrate stocks down to 10 ppm requires this lab practice, in which a solution is made progressively less concentrated in log-fold decrements over multiple steps.
The concentration of less soluble salts than nitrates can be benchmarked by the point at which the solution has this property, meaning that no additional solute dissolves.
nitrate [or NO3-; do not accept or prompt on "nitrite"]
serial dilution [prompt on dilution]
saturated [or saturation; or other word forms]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
An event in which a gene's function on one chromosome disappears is known as the loss of this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this property of a locus containing two different alleles for a gene. It is typically notated with one uppercase and one lowercase letter for that gene.
Loss of heterozygosity is most frequently cited as a cause of this disease. Knudson's ("kuh-NOOD-son'z") hypothesis posits that this disease often occurs with loss of heterozygosity, followed by a point mutation in genes like Rb.
The two-hits in Knudson's hypothesis are mutations in these two classes of genes. When one of them mutates, cells stop undergoing apoptosis, while the other tends to promote apoptosis.
heterozygous [accept word forms like heterozygosity]
cancer [or any specific types of cancer; or retinoblastoma]
proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes [accept proto-oncogenes and antioncogenes; do not accept or prompt on just "oncogene"]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
This man, Ronald Graham, and Oren Patashnik wrote the textbook <em>Concrete Mathematics</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who wrote a multi-volume textbook that extensively uses the MIX language to present its algorithms, The Art of Computer Programming.
Knuth introduced this typesetting program, which is often used to author papers featuring mathematical equations. Leslie Lamport made a namesake extension to this program that is more user-friendly.
Donald Knuth, Vaughan Pratt, and James Morris name an algorithm that efficiently performs this task.
Donald Knuth
Tex (“tekk”) [accept answers that sound like “TEX”; accept LaTex (“Lay-tek”) or answers that sound like “latex”]
string searching [accept answers indicating searching within text or searching within strings or string matching or finding a substring]  &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
The principal axes of rotation are the unit eigenvectors of this construct. For 10 points each:
Name this construct. Multiplying the angular velocity vector by this construct transforms it to the angular momentum vector.
The inertia tensor is a matrix representation of the moment of inertia, which is the rotational analog of this quantity. Its SI unit is the kilogram.
The inertia tensor is a valid representation when considering the dynamics of bodies with this property, meaning that they are not deformed when subject to a force. Euler names a set of equations that describe the rotations of bodies with this property.
moment of inertia tensor [or moment of inertia matrix, prompt on moment of inertia]
mass
rigidity [accept rigid bodies]  &lt;French, Science - Physics&gt;
The first one of these procedures was run by the World War I psychologist W. H. R. Rivers, who was studying the effects of caffeine on patients. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of experiment in which both the researcher and the participant are unaware of certain parameters that govern it.
A double-blind experiment will often use a drug candidate and this kind of dummy drug, which has no biological effects. However, there may still be a psychological effect from taking one of these.
A researcher may run a double-blind experiment to eliminate bias and thus remove the "confounding" or "lurking" type of these things.
double-blind experiment [prompt on blind-experiment]
placebo [accept placebo effect]
variables [or independent variables or dependent variables or lurking variables or confounding variables]  &lt;Jose, Social Science - Psychology&gt;
Many objects move as a result of radiation pressure. For 10 points each:
The tails of these "dirty snowballs" are caused by the radiation pressure of starlight imparting kinetic energy to its icy surface.
This bizarre decrease in an object's velocity was caused by anisotropic radiation pressure as a certain spacecraft made it further and further away from the Solar System. It was called an anomaly since it could not originally be explained.
These theoretical objects would move via large mirrors collecting photons that exert a radiation pressure on the vehicle. In 1976 the Jet Propulsion Laboratory proposed building this kind of vehicle to rendezvous with Halley's Comet.
comets
Pioneer anomaly [or Pioneer effect]
solar sails [accept light sails or photon sails]  &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
One variety of these phenomena may create formations of thick, viscous, liquids known as "mud pots." For 10 points each:
Name these cracks in the Earth's crust that emit gases and vapors. They take their name from a diminutive Latin word for "smoke."
These springs which periodically eject pressurized water are often classified as a type of fumarole. One in Yellowstone National Park has been called "Old Faithful" due to its regular eruptions.
Another kind of fumarole, called white smoker chimneys, ejects the molten material that comprises this mineral, the principal ore of zinc. Several sources list "black jack" as an amusing alternate name for this ore.
fumaroles
geysers
sphalerite [prompt on zincblende]  &lt;Jose, Science - Earth&gt;
Apical constriction of bottle cells forms this structure during gastrulation. For 10 points each:
Name this opening to the archenteron. Whether it forms the mouth or anus determines if an organism is a protostome or deuterostome.
Developmental stages such as gastrulation are commonly studied in a model organism from this phylum. Sea urchins and starfish are members of this phylum who are oddly bilaterally symmetric.
This process of early cell division in the embryo may be radial or spiral depending on if the organism is a protostome or deuterostome. Depending on the organism, cell fates may be determined during this process which forms the blastula.
blastopore
echinoderms [or echinodermata]
cleavage  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
One category of these systems was first proposed by E.F. Codd in 1970. For 10 points each:
Name these storage systems. Programs such as Microsoft Access help manage them.
Business databases are often organized into one of these systems to allow for business queries to be generated using either OLTP or OLAP processing. In these systems, data is easily manipulated, much like how goods can be moved by things like a forklift in the physical buildings that provide these systems their name.
This language is used for managing a relational database. Developed by Donald Chamberlin and Ray Boyce, it retrieves data using SELECT statements and filters it with WHERE clauses.
databases
data warehouses [accept data mart]
SQL ("sequel" or "S-Q-L") [or Structured Query Language]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Engineering and Miscellaneous&gt;
These entities propagate via adiabatic compression and decompression. For 10 points each:
Name these longitudinal waves, which in air propagate at about roughly 343 meters per second.
In a liquid, the speed of sound is equal to the square root of this quantity divided by the density.
If two sounds with similar frequencies are played, the frequency of the beat heard as a result of their interference is this function of the frequencies of the initial sounds.
sound waves [accept acoustic waves]
bulk modulus
difference [accept answers involving subtraction]  &lt;Wang, Science - Physics&gt;
Chemical reactions are often run under this condition if the solvent is volatile but the reaction is rate-limited. For 10 points each:
Name this setup in which a liquid is continuously vaporized, then re-condensed by an overhead cold finger and recycled. It's a defining feature of industrial continuous distillation.
Refluxing is often necessary to separate components that have extremely close values for this value, the temperature at which they vaporize.
For a batch distillation in the lab, the reaction is often set to boil by placing it in a round-bottom flask nested in a sand bath on one of these flat-top heating elements. They often double as magnetic stirrers.
reflux [or word forms]
boiling point [or condensation point]
hot plates  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
The Euclidean algorithm is used to find this value for a pair of numbers. For 10 points each:
Give this value. For two numbers, it is equal to their product divided by their least common multiple.
The Euclidean algorithm has been used to prove this result, which states that for every integer there is a unique factorization. This result was first proved by Gauss.
This identity named for a Frenchman states that for two nonzero integers a and b, there exists two integers x and y such that ax+by equals the greatest common divisor of a and b.
greatest common divisor [or gcd or greatest common factor or gcf]
fundamental theorem of arithmetic [prompt on fundamental theorem]
Bezout's identity  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Math&gt;
Prefixing a quantity with the word "specific" makes it this type of quantity by normalizing against total mass. For 10 points each:
Name this type of quantity that does not depend on the amount of material, such as density or pressure.
Thus, a factor of total mass distinguishes the "specific," intensive form of this quantity, measured in Joules per Kelvin kilogram, from its extensive counterpart. This quantity is the energy required to raise an object's temperature by a degree.
Although solids have different specific heats, their molar heat capacity is often approximated by this common, exact value. This value is slightly less than 25 Joules per Kelvin mole.
intensive quantities [accept bulk property]
heat capacity [or specific heat capacity]
3R [or three times the ideal gas constant; or three times R; or obvious equivalents]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Unlike the more general loop technique, this method can only be applied to planar circuits which do not cross over themselves. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in circuit analysis in which the voltage drops are written in terms of the currents flowing around the namesake closed paths.
Mesh analysis is an application of this scientist's voltage rule, which states that the voltage drops around a loop must sum to zero.
On circuit diagrams, these points are indicated by three parallel horizontal lines of decreasing length. The electrical potential equals zero at these points, which are named because they are often connected to the Earth.
mesh current analysis
Gustav Kirchhoff
grounds  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
The reversed form of this interaction links together poly·pyrimidine stretches linked by a penta·thymidine in a PPRH. For 10 points each:
Name this alternative to Watson-Crick base pairing which can be produced by rotating the purine from its Watson-Crick position 180 degrees around a glycosidic bond. These typically unnatural bonds may form triple or quadruple helix structures.
The presence of Hoogsteen pairs allows the formation of G-quadruplexes by these repetitive DNA structures found at the ends of chromosomes.
G-quadruplexes are named after this nucleobase which binds to cytosine.
Hoogsteen base pairing [accept reverse Hoogsteen base pairing]
telomeres
guanine [do not accept or prompt on “guanidine” or “guanosine”]  &lt;Wang, Science - Biology&gt;
The novel <em>Alice in Wonderland</em> has influenced computer science. For 10 points each:
A Python library named after Beautiful Soup is often used to parse this language which uses tags delimited with angle brackets to create web pages.
Douglas Hofstadter asked if one could translate Carroll's poem "Jabberwocky" and have it retain this property in the minds of various readers. An open computer science problem asks whether two graphs have this property of being structurally identical to each other.
Alice is also the name of a programming language with this kind of interface, in which a user clicks and holds onto an icon, and releases the mouse after moving it around.
HTML [accept Hypertext Markup Language]
isomorphism [accept word forms such as isomorphic or graph isomorphism]
drag-and-drop interface [prompt on graphical user interface or GUI]  &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
Without oxygen, anaerobic bacteria are forced to use a range of unusual metals to do biochemistry. For 10 points each:
This heavy element substitutes in for molybdenum in some complexes in Clostridia. Its atomic symbol, oddly, is a W.
Acetogenic bacteria catabolize carbon monoxide with cobalt and this other metal, which biochemists use to purify His-tagged proteins. In water, this metal acquires a +2 charge and forms green coordination complexes.
Nickel and iron both are cofactors in enzymes that catalyze the oxidation of this chemical species, a reaction that electrochemists have assigned as having zero volts of standard reduction potential.
tungsten
nickel
hydrogen gas [accept H2; do not accept or prompt on “H”]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
A body's albedo is defined as the proportion of incident light that undergoes this process. For 10 points each:
Name this change in direction of light when it bounces off of a surface.
When this condition is met, waves reflecting off a crystal have constructive interference. This condition is expressed by the equation 2d sine theta equals n times lambda.
Wave diffracted by a crystal lattice may also be modeled by the Laue equations, named for Max von Laue. Laue also names the set of 11 crystallographic point groups with this property. Second harmonic generation cannot occur in crystals with this property.
reflection [accept reflecting; do not accept or prompt on "refracting"]
Wulff-Bragg's condition [accept Bragg's law]
centrosymmetric [accept word forms such as centrosymmetry; accept inversion symmetry; accept answers suggest they possess an inversion center]  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Physics&gt;
Combinatorial synthesis is often used to synthesize libraries of these compounds in drug screens. For 10 points each:
Give the two-word name for this type of drug that is distinguished from a biologic because it has a much lower molar mass.
One of the most common class of small molecule drugs act as this type of enzyme inhibitor, meaning they directly bind to the active site of an enzyme and prevent the actual substrate from binding.
Antimicrobial therapies typically rely on small molecules antibiotics like ampicillin, a derivative of this foundational antibiotic discovered on accident by Alexander Fleming.
small molecules [or small molecule drugs]
competitive inhibitors
penicillin G  &lt;Silverman, Science - Biology&gt;
Hydrogen bonds are classified as an especially strong form of these intermolecular forces. For 10 points each:
Name this class of attractive forces that occur between partially charged atoms, named for the simplest configuration of a positive and a negative charge.
Dipole moments are symbolized using an arrow from positive to negative charges, each of which are labelled plus or minus using this lowercase Greek letter.
Dipole moments of molecules are measured in Debyes, not Coulomb-meters, since the requisite scaling factor is ten raised to the power of this negative integer, then divided by the speed of light. The SI prefix zepto- is equivalent to ten raised to this power.
dipole-dipole forces [accept Debye interaction]
delta
-21  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
An engineer is building an underwater tunnel. For 10 points each:
He or she may choose to build an immersible tube, which involves placing prefabricated pipe pieces into a manmade example of these depressions. In geology, oceanic ones of these structures are made by subducting plates.
The components of the immersible tube are likely built with these interior walls, which increase the tunnel's structural integrity and may localize the spread of water in the event of a hull breach. They can also be found in airplane fuselages and ships.
Finally, the engineer may choose to cover the tunnel with rock armor to prevent the tube from undergoing this process, in which weathering degrades it.
trenches [accept Marianas trench; do not accept or prompt on “fault”]
bulkheads
erosion [accept word forms]  &lt;Jose, Science - Engineering and Miscellaneous&gt;
A more tightly packed form of this substance is called its hetero form. For 10 points each:
Name this DNA and protein complex found in eukaryotic cells, the supercoiled form of DNA found in a chromosome.
DNA winds itself around these proteins after which they coil into the 30 nm fiber. Five isoforms of these proteins exist and their H1/H5 variant is known as the "linker" variety.
A gene being silenced due to its position with respect to heterochromatin can result in position-effect variegation, which can result in this autosomal recessive condition which causes a loss of sense in the limbs and difficulty walking due to issues with the Frataxin protein.
chromatin
histones
Friedreich's ataxia [prompt on partial answer]  &lt;Wang, Science - Biology&gt;
The hacker group Nightscout used a security hole in a Medtronics device to treat people with this disease to create a DIY alternative that costs just $250. For 10 points each:
Name this disease. Several tech companies sell algorithms that look for spot signs of a retinopathy caused by this disease from scans of the retina.
The WHO ("W-H-O") has concluded that this company's Humulin and Humalog varieties of insulin aren't worth the expense compared to human insulin. This pharma company also sells Prozac.
Eli Lilly makes a version of Humalog with this adjective to sell without a rebate. Drugs described by this adjective must have the same active ingredients as the patented drug they derive from.
diabetes [or Type I diabetes; or Type II diabetes; or diabetes mellitus]
Eli Lilly and Company
generic drugs [or generics]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
The "in-place" form of this task does not build any additional structures to perform it and merely orders elements of a list. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which can be performed by so-called "bubble" and "insertion" algorithms.
This sorting algorithm developed by John von Neumann begins by splitting a list into two sublists and recursing on each of the sublists, then performing the namesake operation on the two sorted sublists.
Another recursive sort, radix sort, is this type of sort since it does not use any "less than" or other similar namesake operations to order the input. Selection, bubble, and mergesort are not this kind of sorting algorithm.
sorting [accept in-place sorting or bubble sort or selection sort]
mergesort
non-comparative sorting [accept non-comparison based sorting or any answer indicating it's an algorithm that does not compare the elements to sort the list]  &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
The vacuum solution to these equations gives the electromagnetic wave equation. For 10 points each:
Name this set of four equations governing the behavior of electric and magnetic fields.
Maxwell's equations may be solved numerically using a finite difference method named for this domain. An oscilloscope typically reports signals in this domain, which can be Fourier-transformed into the frequency domain.
When using FDTD to model a system with charged particles, a numerical form of this effect can arise. In the physical world, it occurs when particles move faster than the speed of light in a medium.
Maxwell's equations
time domain
Cherenkov radiation  &lt;Mitchell, Science - Physics&gt;
Like hydrogen peroxide, this compound is a commonly used oxidant in green chemistry reactions. For 10 points each:
Name this compound which many biology labs keep handy, since it's the active ingredient in bleach.
Reacting sodium hypochlorite with acids releases chlorine gas, which is why it's never a good idea to mix cleaning supplies, particularly coupling bleach with this common weak acid found in vinegar.
Reacting isopropanol with bleach isn't any better: the isopropanol gets oxidized to acetone, then undergoes a namesake reaction to form this hazardous, volatile liquid that biology labs still keep around as a co-solvent for purifying nucleic acids.
sodium hypochlorite [or NaOCl]
acetic acid [or CH3COOH; or C2H4O2]
chloroform [or CHCl3; or trichloromethane]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
A transdermal patch of this substance sometimes resolves the symptoms of ulcerative colitis. For 10 points each:
Name this alkaloid which stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system. Common ways of imbibing it are in the form of cigarette smoke or via Juul pod.
Nicotine functions by serving as a receptor agonist to receptors meant to respond to this neurotransmitter; those receptors for this neurotransmitter are typically found at neuromuscular junctions.
This other class of acetylcholine receptors forms GPCR complexes. They are named for a quaternary ammonium salt found from a toxic mushroom.
nicotine
acetylcholine [or ACh]
muscarinic acetylcholine receptors [or mAChRs; accept muscarine]  &lt;Wang, Science - Biology&gt;
This extremely symmetric crystal system is sometimes called the isometric group, and 36 space groups are found within it. For 10 points each:
Name this crystal system which contains three axes of identical length which are mutually orthogonal.
A crystal structure in which a lattice point is present at the center of each of these parts of the cubic lattice has a packing efficiency of roughly 0.74, which meets the limit set by the Kepler conjecture.
This crystal system has the lowest possible amount of symmetry, because all three axes of the unit cell are different lengths and none of them intersect at 90 degrees.
cubic crystal system
face [accept face-centered cubic]
triclinic  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
For 10 points each answer the following about crossmodal perception, or the many ways one perceives a stimulus:
This lobe of the brain is thought to integrate various stimuli into a single set of information, and is home to the "dorsal" stream of vision. It sits behind the frontal lobe.
The crossmodal connections within the parietal lobe have been shown to be stronger in people with this condition, exemplified by a person who associates colors with letters of the alphabet.
Research on crossmodal stimuli in synesthetes has been inspired by an effect named for these two nonsense words. In a classic experiment, these words refer to shapes that have jagged and smooth edges. Please give two answers.
parietal lobe
synesthesia [accept synesthetes]
kiki AND bouba [accept answers in either order]  &lt;Jose, Social Science - Psychology&gt;
For 10 points each, give the following types of matrices ("MAY-truh-seez"):
This type of square matrix has ones along the main diagonal and zeros everywhere else. Multiplying this matrix with another matrix will leave the other matrix unchanged.
These matrices named for a Russian mathematician are used to model stochastic processes. Those matrices model namesake "chains," which treats event probabilities as being dependent only on the state of the previous event.
The inverse of this type of matrix equals its conjugate transpose. These matrices can diagonalize normal matrices and are often used in quantum mechanics.
identity matrix
Markov matrices [or Markov chains; accept Andrei Markov]
unitary matrix [or unitary matrices]  &lt;Reinstein, Science - Math&gt;
This acid is typically used to adjust the pH of Tris solutions. For 10 points each:
Name this strong acid that reacts with sodium hydroxide to form table salt and water.
Hydrochloric acid is often used to adjust pH because it is relatively inert, whereas nitric acid also acts as one of these species in reactions. This type of species solubilizes ("SOL-yuh-buh-LIE-zus") metallic copper by converting it to Cu2+.
Oddly, this element actually dissolves better in non-oxidizing acids like HCl because its oxide is so prevalent and insoluble. This element breaks the octet rule by forming stable covalent compounds with four valence electrons.
hydrochloric acid [accept HCl]
oxidizing agent [accept oxidizer or oxidant]
beryllium [accept Be]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
In this experiment, electrons were accelerated from a hot filament to a nickel target. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment, whose results showed strong peaks in the scattered electron intensity as a function of the square root of accelerating voltage.
The Davisson-Germer experiment confirmed this Frenchman's hypothesis that matter has properties of both waves and particles. His namesake wavelength equals Planck's constant divided by a particle's momentum.
The Davisson-Germer experiment did for electrons what this earlier experiment did for light. The light and dark interference bands in this experiment provided evidence for the wave nature of light.
Davisson-Germer experiment
Louis de Broglie
Young's double-slit experiment [prompt on Young's experiment]  &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Physics&gt;
Many pathogenic genera ("JEN-er-uh") use the Type III system for this process to inject toxins directly from their cytoplasm into the host's cytoplasm. For 10 points each:
Name this process that allows bacteria to transport proteins or other effectors from the inside of their cells to the outside.
Many secretion systems are unique to clades that test either positive or negative when this staining procedure is applied. The crystal violet used in this stain binds to peptidoglycan.
Type IV secretion systems, like the VirB/D (“veer”-“B”-“D”) system in Agrobacterium, can be used to transfer both proteins and DNA due to its homology to this process in which bacteria use a pilus to exchange genetic material.
secretion [accept secreting or other word forms; accept secretion system; prompt on SS]
Gram staining [or Gram's method]
conjugation [accept word forms, such as conjugating]  &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
In the mean field approximation for this model, one quantity equals the hyperbolic tangent of an affine ("uh-FINE") transformation of itself. For 10 points each:
Name this model that expresses the Hamiltonian as the sum of the interactions between adjacent pairs of spins plus the sum of the interaction of each spin with an external field.
The Ising model describes materials with this property. The Barkhausen effect refers to discontinuous jumps in the B-H curve of materials with this property.
A ferromagnet becomes paramagnetic above the temperature named for this man. He won a Nobel Prize along with his wife for their research on radioactivity.
Ising model
ferromagnetism
Pierre Curie  &lt;French, Science - Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, give the following about a particularly pesky problem in geology known as the Suess effect:
The Suess effect interferes with the usage of this isotope, thus making geological dating more tricky. This isotope decays into its "13" counterpart.
The Suess effect is the release of carbon-13 into the atmosphere by the burning of these substances, such as natural gas, oil, or coal. They are formed by decomposing the remains of dead life.
The reason that fossil fuels don't release carbon-14 when they are burned is because carbon-14's half life is so short. Within 10%, what is the half-life of carbon 14? Please give your answer as an integer.
carbon-14 [prompt on carbon]
fossil fuels [prompt on nonrenewable energy or nonrenewable fuels]
5730 years [any number given between 5157 to 6303]  &lt;Jose, Science - Earth&gt;
Polarizable examples of these substances are known as dielectrics. For 10 points each:
Name these materials which contain few mobile charge carriers. They typically have large band gaps.
The two bands separated by the band gap are given these names. The energy of these bands is close to the Fermi level.
The critical electron density is the cutoff where the length scale of this effect prevents electrons from being bound in a Mott transition, in which a metal begins acting as a non-metal or vice versa. This effect refers to the weakening of Coulombic ("koo-LOME-bik") interactions due to the presence of mobile charge carriers.
electrical insulator [prompt on but do not reveal nonconductor]
valence and conduction bands
electric-field screening  &lt;Wang, Science - Physics&gt;
Answer some things about ions in gel electrophoresis. For 10 points each:
An electromotive force can move DNA through a gel because these ions in the DNA backbone impart a negative charge. Conversion of ATP to ADP releases one of these ions.
This chelating agent is often added to electrophoresis buffers to sequester metal cations and prevent degradation of DNA by nucleases. TAE buffer consists of Tris base, acetic acid, and this hexadentate ligand.
The anionic "head group" of the surfactant SDS allows it to break non-covalent bonds in a common variant of protein electrophoresis that uses this polymer as a medium.
phosphate [accept PO43-]
EDTA [or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid]
polyacrylamide [or polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; prompt on SDS-PAGE]  &lt;Narayan, Science - Biology&gt;
This type of reaction is used for elemental analysis of fuels since carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen stoichiometry can be calculated by the amount of CO2 and water formed. For 10 points each:
Name this oxidation reaction catalyzed by heat, such as a fire.
This element also combusts to form a dioxide. Chemoautotrophs that don't rely on carbon typically respire by oxidizing this element's reduced gaseous form, resulting in this solid element.
In thermal analysis, the heat of combustion is also measured by conducting the entire reaction inside one of these constant-volume devices, where the heat equals the change in internal energy.
combustion reaction
sulfur [or S]
bomb calorimeter [prompt on calorimeter]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
While working for this company in the 1910s, Carl Bosch industrialized ammonia synthesis and helped create its spinoff, IG Farben. For 10 points each:
Name this German titan of the chemical industry, the world's largest supplier of chemicals today.
Bosch is often considered the father of chemical engineering, since he industrialized nitrogen fixation whereas this man, his collaborator, figured out the chemistry.
BASF first came to prominence for commercializing the production of one of these compounds from aniline ("AN-uh-lin"). One of these compounds derived from euxanthone ("yook-ZAN-thun") was made by feeding mango leaves to cows.
BASF SE [or Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik; or Baden Aniline and Soda Factory]
Fritz Haber
pigments or dyes [prompt on coloring agents]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Engineering and Miscellaneous&gt;
This term was coined by J.P. Scott and Emil Fredericson while analyzing rodents. For 10 points each:
Give this umbrella term for social behavior related to fighting. Threat, aggression, and submission are considered examples of this sort of behavior
Agonistic behavior may occur as a result of this phenomenon which often occurs when a resource is limited. A law named for Georgy Gause states two species experiencing this phenomenon cannot coexist if they aim for the same resource.
Competitive exclusion often leads to one species changing to occupy a different one of these roles in its ecosystem.
agonistic behavior [accept agonistic interaction; do not accept or prompt on “antagonistic behavior” or “antagonism”]
competition
ecological niche  &lt;Wang, Science - Biology&gt;
The ALPHA experiment studies this specific system, which it produces by mixing particles contained within Penning traps. For 10 points each:
Name this neutral two-body system. ALPHA's 2016 measurements of this system's 1S-2S transition found its energy to be identical to the Lyman alpha transition.
Charles Anderson discovered this antimatter counterpart to the electron as a result of finding ion trails that exactly mirrored those of an electron in a cloud chamber.
Antimatter was originally conceived of as one of these entities found in the negative energy Dirac sea. In solid-state physics these entities are treated as quasiparticles representing the absence of an electron.
antihydrogen atom [do not accept or prompt on "hydrogen"]
positron
electron holes  &lt;Wang, Science - Physics&gt;
Control systems are easy to model as block diagrams using a package attached to this language called Simulink. For 10 points each:
Name this scripting language published by Mathworks, which is common in engineering due to its easy handling of data stored in matrices.
Simulink and MATLAB are used by electrical engineers processing this type of signal. This type of signal can be rendered in binary, unlike an analog signal.
Analog-to-digital converters work by sampling, which involves discretizing the time domain and making a measurement every finite time step. This undesirable phenomenon of a signal being distorted results from poor temporal or spatial sampling.
MATLAB [accept Matrix Laboratory]
digital signal processing
aliasing  &lt;Silverman, Science - Engineering and Miscellaneous&gt;
These molecules display an unusual form of aromaticity if their number of pi electrons can be expressed as “2<em>n</em> squared plus 4<em>n</em> plus 2”, for some integer <em>n</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these allotropes of carbon that take the shape of buckyballs or carbon nanotubes. They're named for an architect.
The original buckyballs discovered by Kroto and Smalley are non-aromatic since they have this many carbon atoms.
Unlike planar aromatic compounds, spherical aromatic compounds like fullerenes regularly undergo this type of reaction in the presence of nucleophiles. Conjugated alkenes characteristically react with electrophiles through substitution instead of one of these reactions.
fullerenes [accept buckminsterfullerenes]
sixty [or 60]
electrophilic additions [do not accept or prompt on "cycloadditions"]  &lt;Silverman, Science - Chemistry&gt;
This effect causes winds such as the Warm Braw in New Guinea and the Brookings Effect on the Pacific Coast. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which a desert-like region is formed on the side of a mountain. It occurs as a result of orographic lift.
The rain-shadow effect is caused by air undergoing this kind of compression. This term describes processes in which there is no heat exchanged with a thermodynamic system.
This nine-letter adjective describes the winds that decrease in elevation and create the rain-shadow. In cold environments, these winds create so-called "dry valleys," or regions that are free of snow.
rain shadow effect
adiabatic compression [or adiabatic process]
katabatic winds  &lt;Jose, Science - Earth&gt;
Pilot wave theory was the first example of these theories. For 10 points each:
Name this term for deterministic theories championed by physicists who believe the state of a system described by quantum mechanics does not hold all of its information.
This North Irish physicist names a theorem stating no local hidden variable theory can reproduce the predictions of quantum mechanics.
In the paper presenting Bell's theorem, Bell proposed a situation involving two particles with this property. Einstein described the implications of this property as "spooky action at a distance" due to particles with this property being able to transmit information faster than light.
hidden-variable theories
John Stewart Bell [accept Bell's theorem or Bell's inequality]
entanglement [accept word forms such as entangled]  &lt;Jang, Science - Physics&gt;
The allocation of these structures to store variables can be done using the Chaitin-Briggs algorithm. For 10 points each:
Name these structures found on a processor which hold information. In the x64 architecture, they hold 64 bits.
In the x86 architecture, the extended prefix allows registers to hold this many bits. It may help to know that this many bits is equivalent to four bytes.
Designing a good register allocation and fetch system is integral to performing this process efficiently, in which computer data is processed concurrently in a parallel or time-sliced fashion. Branch prediction is used to speed this technique up.
processor registers
32
pipelining [or instruction pipelining]  &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
An example of one of these things is H<sub>2</sub> becoming 2H<sup>+</sup> + 2e<sup>-</sup>. For 10 points each:
Name these reactions that make up a larger chemical reaction in which electrons are transferred between atoms.
Half reactions are halves of these reactions that involve movement of electrons and changes in oxidation states..
This redox process is used industrially to create metal sodium from table salt. It involves attracting sodium ions in molten salt to an iron cathode and letting them float to the surface of the molten salt.
half reaction
redox reactions [prompt on reduction-oxidation reactions]
Downs cell [accept other words in place of “cell”] &lt;DM&gt;
This is the longest wavelength of electromagnetic radiation. For 10 points each:
Name these waves used in namesake devices, often either using FM or AM techniques.
These rapidly rotating entities emit radio waves at regular intervals. They are prevented from collapsing further by degeneracy pressure of the baryon that composes them.
The first pulsars to be discovered were initially thought to perhaps be alien civilizations attempting to communicate and were hence given this name, referring to creatures that supposedly live on Mars.
radio waves
pulsars [prompt on neutron stars]
Little Green Men [accept either initials or full correct answer; do not prompt on partial] &lt;DM&gt;
No, it doesn’t cause autism. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which viruses are introduced into a system in order for the body to build immunity against them.
Prior to the invention of the smallpox vaccine, this process of using live smallpox virus to create immunity was first practiced in China. It is named for the genus that smallpox belongs to.
The word “vaccine” means “cow-related.” However, Louis Pasteur soon used these other large beasts of burden as agents for his vaccine, using their serum to produce diphtheria vaccine.
vaccination
variolation [also accept inoculation]
horses &lt;DM&gt;
<em>Moderator Note: Read third part slowly</em> ATP = AMP + PP<sub>i</sub> (“P-P-sub-i”). For 10 points each:
Name this inorganic ion, denoted PPi in biology, consisting of two linked phosphate groups following a condensation reaction from phosphoric acid. Its name comes from its traditional method of preparation by heating.
Pyrophosphate, like phosphate, consists of phosphorus bonded to this element. When pyrophosphate is formed from phosphoric acid, one atom of this element breaks off and forms water with hydrogen ions.
Pyrophosphate has one fewer oxygen than two separate phosphate groups do, since that oxygen molecule is lost in the condensation reaction. From this information, give the number of oxygen atoms in one pyrophosphate ion.
pyrophosphate
oxygen
7 &lt;DM&gt;
Name some protocols that allow the transfer of information over computer networks, for ten points each:
This protocol lays at the foundation of the World Wide Web, and its abbreviation is often followed by a colon-slash-slash in web addresses.
This protocol takes advantage of public key cryptography to offer encrypted remote command-line access from one computer (known as the “client”) to another (known as the “server”).
Many email clients use this protocol to send and retrieve messages. Unlike its predecessor called POP, this protocol supports access to an email box by multiple clients.
HTTP [or Hypertext Transfer Protocol; anti-prompt on HTTPS and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure]
SSH [accept Secure Shell]
IMAP (“I-map”) [or Internet Message Access Protocol; accept Interim Mail Access Protocol, Interactive Mail Access Protocol; anti-prompt on IMAP2, IMAP3, IMAP4] &lt;AM&gt;
Copper produces a green color during this procedure. For 10 points each,
Name this procedure that often consists of using a Bunsen Burner to heat up a sample before observing its color. It is a type of emission spectroscopy.
Often, the sample to be tested is placed on a platinum wire cleaned with this compound to remove any impurities. This compound, along with nitric acid, makes up aqua regia.
Since even a little bit of sodium can make it hard to see the result of a flame test due to its intense production of yellow light, to filter out the yellow, the flame can be viewed through a glass tinted blue with this element.
flame test
hydrochloric acid [accept HCl]
cobalt [accept Co] &lt;BC&gt;
This phenomenon occurs in spinning tops. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which a rotating object’s axis begins travelling in a circle instead of falling down. An external torque applied results in its gyroscopic variety.
Precession occurs due to the change of this quantity, denoted L, from torque. This quantity is equal to moment of inertia times angular velocity, and its linear analog is denoted p, equal to mass times velocity.
The rate of precession is commonly expressed in terms of either angular velocity or this equivalent ratio of two rotational quantities.
precession
angular momentum
torque over angular momentum [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;DM&gt;
How much do you know about the rock you’re standing on (or, if you aren’t at Hunter, the rock you would be standing on)? For 10 points each, answer some questions about the geology of New York City.
A redirection of the Harlem River moved a neighborhood named for this stone from Manhattan to the Bronx. This metamorphic rock was commonly used in Greco-Roman statuary.
Large boulders of this metamorphic rock flecked with mica can be found in Central Park, and this rock comprises much of Manhattan’s bedrock. Large, flat, scaly grains make up the majority of this foliated rock.
Manhattan’s bedrock was exposed by the movement of these things, which once covered much of the northern US in the Ice Age. Much of Queens is made up of their terminal moraines.
marble
Manhattan schist
glaciers &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about South African anthropologist Lee Berger.
As a paleoanthropologist, he studies the development and evolution of this species. Unless you are a computer reading this, you are a member of this species.
Berger’s first major South African dig, at Malapa, unearthed the first specimens of A. sediba, a member of this genus. Lucy was a member of this genus.
Berger’s most recent major dig was the one discovering this small species of the genus Homo in Rising Star Cave in Gauteng (“HOW-teng”) province. Prior to full dating, it was believed to have been a possible human ancestor.
Homo sapiens sapiens [prompt on human]
Australopithecus [do not accept or prompt on “Ardipithecus”]
Homo naledi &lt;DM&gt;
A principle named for this man illustrates how production becomes more efficient with division of labor. For 10 points each:
Name this British mathematician who broke the Vigenere and autokey ciphers during the Crimean War and invented the cowcatcher.
Charles Babbage designed the analytical engine, an early example of this technology, used to calculate the answers to math problems. Nowadays, this technology comes in desktop and laptop versions.
This woman, originally drafted by Babbage to translate his lectures into Italian, wrote what has often been called the first computer program, which uses the analytical engine to calculate Bernoulli numbers.
Charles Babbage
S: computer
Ada, Countess of Lovelace [accept Augusta Ada King or Ada Byron] &lt;AJ&gt;
This arthropod was imported into the US likely in wood packaging from China, and the first members in the Western Hemisphere were found in Brooklyn. For 10 points each:
Name this beetle, whose eggs are deposited in live trees, upon which larvae feed and in which they grow. As an invasive species, it prefers to settle on maple trees, hurting the maple syrup industry in the Northeast and Canada.
Another invasive tree disease is a fungal one named for the Netherlands that kills these trees. These trees’ leaves are fuzzy on one side as well as being asymmetrical, and the trees’ shape is vase-like from branching trunks.
South American leaf blight means that these latex-producing trees cannot be grown in plantations in South America. These trees led to a namesake boom in Brazil.
Asian longhorned beetle [accept Anoplophora glabripennis, starry sky, sky beetle, or ALB]
elm
Pará rubber trees [accept Hevea brasiliensis, sharinga tree, or seringueira] &lt;DM&gt;
Lye and milk of magnesia are examples of these substances. For 10 points each:
Name these substances that, in the Lewis definition, donate electron pairs. They are often contrasted with acids.
One way to determine if a substance is a base is if this quantity is smaller than the pH of the substance. This quantity plus pH equals 14.
This constant is equal to the concentration of the conjugate base times the concentration of hydronium ions divided by the concentration of the undissociated acid.
bases
pOH [accept power of hydroxide]
acid-dissociation constant [accept K-sub-a] &lt;BC&gt;
Malus’s law describes the effect of things that change this property of light. For 10 points each,
Name this property of light that comes in plane, circular, and linear forms for light. This property of light describes the orientation of the oscillations in space.
This angle is the angle of incidence at which polarized light can travel through surfaces without there being any reflection. Unpolarized light incident on a surface at this angle is polarized perfectly.
A wave can only be polarized if it is a transverse wave, which means that its oscillations form this angle relative to the propagation of the wave. This angle is equal to half of a straight angle.
polarization [accept word forms]
Brewster’s angle
right angle [accept perpendicular or 90 degrees or pi over 2 radians or other equivalents] &lt;BC&gt;
Can you know everything through the laws of mechanics? For 10 points each,
This was a deterministic thought experiment proposed by a French physicist that asked if you could predict the future by knowing the precise position and velocity of every particle in the universe.
Laplace’s Demon has been proven wrong in part by this German physicist’s principle that states that the standard deviation of position times the standard deviation in momentum is always at least h bar over 2.
Another thought experiment about uncertainty was this one, which involved an animal that can be both simultaneously alive and dead.
Laplace’s Demon
Werner Heisenberg
Schrodinger’s Cat &lt;BL&gt;
Phosphoenolpyruvate, or PEP, is a very important biological molecule. For 10 points each:
CO2 is added to PEP in C4 carbon fixation, which is part of this larger process that turns light energy, water and CO2 into sugar and oxygen in plants.
In this other process, PEP is the molecule that becomes G3P, the process’s final product. This process occurs before oxidative decarboxylation and splits 2 ATP to produce 4 ATP and 2 NADH, along with G3P.
In this process, OAA becomes PEP, which then goes through the steps of glycolysis backwards until becoming fructose 1,6-bisphosphate. This process occurs mainly in the liver, altering pyruvate.
photosynthesis
glycolysis
gluconeogenesis &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about orbital mechanics.
All closed orbits take the shape of this conic section with an eccentricity between zero and one. This conic section is defined as the locus of all points such that the sum of the distances from the two foci is constant.
To transfer between two coplanar circular orbits with different radii, this transfer orbit is used. This transfer consists of using an elliptical transfer orbit and only requires two burns.
To change the inclination of an orbit, the spacecraft must apply delta-v at this place in the orbit where the desired and original orbit intersect. This point shares a name with a point on a wave with minimum amplitude.
ellipse
Hohmann transfer orbit
orbital node &lt;BC&gt;
This constant equals Boltzmann’s constant times the Avogadro constant. For 10 points each:
Name this constant, denoted by R, that appears in its namesake law multiplied by n and T.
A real gas will act like an ideal gas at this temperature at which the second virial coefficient is zero.
This law states that the pressure of a gas is proportional to its temperature, given mass and volume remain constant. This law is also known as Amontons’ law.
ideal gas constant [accept molar gas constant or universal gas constant]
Boyle temperature
Gay-Lussac’s law &lt;BC&gt;
In Zoroastrianism, this thing is known as atar. For 10 points each:
Name this substance, holy in Zoroastrianism, that is venerated at namesake temples. Veils are worn in those temples in order to prevent contaminating braziers of this substance with breath or saliva.
Along with fire, water, earth and air are seen as holy and cannot be contaminated. As a result, Zoroastrian dead are disposed of by placing them on top of Towers of Silence, where this thing happens to them.
Due to a decline in vulture populations in India, bodies are piling up, necessitating the installation of a machine which produces this chemical in order to slow decay. This irritant often forms from nitric oxide and peroxy-radicals in smog.
fire [accept word forms]
they are eaten by vultures [accept word forms]
ozone &lt;AJ&gt;
Name the following about the letters “PK” related to molecules. For 10 points each:
Solutions with values of pKa between -2 and 12 are considered this type of substance.
PKU, or phenylketonuria, is a genetic disorder resulting in the inability to break down phenylalanine, an amino acid with this compound in its side chain. This ring-shaped compound has formula C6H6 and alternating single and double bonds.
Amino acids P and K, or proline and lysine, are both abundant in this protein that is formed by a triple helix. This protein gives skin its elasticity.
weak acid [prompt on partial answer]
benzene
collagen &lt;DM&gt;
These entities are denoted by squiggly lines on a circuit diagram. For 10 points each:
Name these circuit components that decrease voltage and often follow Ohm’s law.
This quantity for a circuit is defined as the resistance that a single resistor would need to decrease the current as much as all of the resistors in the circuit combined.
Pencil and paper pready. Given a circuit with resistors of 2 ohms and 8 ohms in parallel, followed by a 3 ohm resistor in series, calculate the equivalent resistance of the circuit. You have 10 seconds.
resistors
equivalent resistance [accept Req; prompt on partial answer]
23/5 or 4.6 ohms &lt;DM&gt;
There are trillions of bacteria living inside of you! For 10 points each:
Two of this genus’ more benign members, its faecalis and faecium species, are found in the human digestive tract. Vancomycin-resistant members of this genus have been a problematic superbug.
Also found in the human digestive tract are certain bacteria named for this sugar that are cultured in milk to produce yogurt and kefir.
According to endosymbiotic theory, these eukaryotic organelles that produce energy, either from sunlight or glucose, are descended from bacterial cells that began living inside larger cells. Name either of these organelles.
Enterococcus
lactose
mitochondria or chloroplasts [accept mitochondrion in place of “mitochondria”] &lt;DM&gt;
Over time, computers have gotten smaller and smaller, and some can even fit in your palm. For ten points each:
This small, green, exposed PCB functions as a general-purpose computer, unlike a similar device, the Arduino, which only has a motherboard. It also runs Python out-of-the-box, making it ideal for Internet of Things projects.
The Raspberry Pi, and most computers today contain billions of these three-pinned semiconductors that produce, amplify, or control electric power. One measure of a computer circuit’s complexity is the “count” of these objects.
This “law” states that in dense circuits, the ratio of transistors to area doubles each year, but was revised to every other year instead; however it began to fail in 2015 as transistors can’t be made significantly smaller anymore.
Raspberry Pi
transistors
Moore’s Law &lt;AM&gt;
. The materials used in this process must be disposed of in sharps containers. For 10 points each:
Name this process by which chemicals are inserted into something using a needle.
Injections given to the abdomen are known by this name. These types of injections are common in scientific research on mice or rats.
Experimental control groups will often be injected with this fluid, a mixture of salt and water meant to imitate blood’s natural salinity, in order to increase their blood volume.
injection
intraperitoneal [accept IP]
saline &lt;AJ&gt;
The Weyl type of this class of particle was predicted by solving the Dirac equation. For 10 points each,
Protons and neutrons are the composite type of this class of particle since they are made up of an odd number of smaller versions of these particles. Quarks are a type of this class of particle.
This principle states that two identical fermions cannot occupy the same quantum state at the same time. Bosons are not subject to this principle since they have integer spin.
If two of these leptons are in the same orbital, they must have opposite values of spin according to the Pauli exclusion principle. One of these particles makes up a hydrogen atom along with a proton.
fermions
Pauli exclusion principle
electron &lt;BC&gt;
<em>Moderator Note: Emphasize “greater” in the first part</em> It’s World War II, and the Manhattan Project needs your help in building an atomic bomb. For 10 points each:
You must collect this much fissile material such that the effective neutron emission factor is greater than one. With this quantity of fissile material, the number of fission reactions will increase exponentially.
Next, you must enrich this element by separating out its fissile 235 isotope from its more common, non-fissile 238 isotope. This element is the heaviest naturally occurring element and has symbol U.
You’ve made your bomb and have lots of uranium-238 left over. It will undergo this kind of decay to become thorium-234.
supercritical mass [do not accept or prompt on “critical mass”]
uranium
alpha decay &lt;BC&gt;
<em>Moderator Note: Do NOT reveal potential prompts to the first part.</em> Molecular clouds are often these places. For 10 points each:
Name these places that form certain astronomical bodies through cloud collapse. The “Pillars of Creation” are one example of them.
Stellar nurseries are examples of these objects, clouds of gas in space. The Eagle one of them contains the Pillars of Creation.
This adjective describes molecular clouds between 1000 and 10,000,000 solar masses. One group of stars is located in the “asymptotic [this adjective] branch.”
stellar nursery [prompt on nursery or nebulae]
nebulae
giant &lt;DM&gt;
Examples of these organisms can grow in boiling water. For 10 points each:
Give this term for any organism that can withstand severe conditions in its environment. Thermophiles and halophiles are examples of them.
This domain of single-celled organisms is known for including most thermophiles. It is contrasted with Eukarya and Bacteria.
Archaea have linkages of this functional group between the glycerol and side chains in their cell membranes, contrasting with all other forms of life.
extremophile
Archaea
ether &lt;DM&gt;
The decreasing ionic radii of these elements is their namesake contraction. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of elements of the periodic table. They have a partially filled 4f sublevel and are found above the actinides.
This alloy of several lanthanides is composed of cerium, with smaller proportions of lanthanum, neodymium, and other rare earths. It can be prepared from monazite and can be used to create sparks.
This lanthanide, with atomic number 61, is, along with technetium, one of only two elements with less mass than bismuth with no stable isotopes. It is a decay product of europium-151.
lanthanides [accept lanthanoids; prompt on rare earth]
mischmetal
promethium [accept Pm] &lt;BC&gt;
This tool can be used with Visual Basic for Applications programming and became more popular than Lotus 1-2-3 in the 1980s. For 10 points each:
Name this tool which uses features like PivotTables to help users organize data. It uses the .xls file type.
Microsoft Excel is one of these applications which use cells to analyze and store data.
Excel uses this symbol to indicate absolute cell references, meaning that a cell name in an Excel formula including this symbol refers to the original cell even if it is moved.
Microsoft Excel
spreadsheets
dollar sign &lt;CO&gt;
This Dutch lecturer was part of the first research team to view neutron stars and was a pioneering X-ray astronomer. For 10 points each:
Name this former MIT professor whose Lectures on Physics, featuring his courses 8.01, 8.02, and 8.03, are watched by millions annually. These were removed from MITx in 2014 following a sexual harassment case.
One of Professor Lewin’s most famous demonstrations shows how scattering leads to the sky being blue. That scattering process is named for this scientist, who also names a now-outdated law of blackbody radiation with Jeans.
Rayleigh scattering makes the sky blue in particular because blue light has a smaller value for this quantity than other visible light, such as red. This quantity is defined as the distance between crests of adjacent waves.
Walter Lewin
John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh [prompt on John William Strutt]
wavelength [do not accept or prompt on “frequency”] &lt;DM&gt;
. Name some things about combining colored lights, for 10 points each:
If one combines the colors of the visible spectrum, light of this color results. Alternatively, one can mix the primary colors of light together to get this color.
If one additively combines red and green light, this color light results.
Name any of the other secondary colors of light. You may also know them as the colors of paint in the CMYK color model.
white
yellow
magenta or cyan &lt;DM&gt;
This quantity can be defined as the mean of the first ionization energy and electron affinity. For 10 points each,
Name this quantity that measures how much an atom attracts electrons to itself. Fluorine has the highest value of this quantity.
This scientist’s namesake scale is used to measure electronegativity. He is the only person to have won two unshared Nobel prizes and mistakenly believed that DNA was a triple helix.
This scientist’s namesake rules can be used to calculate effective nuclear charge, which is multiplied by 3590 and put over covalent radius squared, then added to 0.744, to find Allred-Rochow electronegativity.
electronegativity
Linus Pauling
John C. Slater &lt;BC&gt;
This condition is often diagnosed in rodents by using a swim test. For 10 points each:
Name this psychiatric disorder characterized by a lack of energy and an increase in sadness. Its opposite is mania.
Depression is often treated using these drugs, which are thought to increase extracellular levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin.
Another common treatment of depression is this psychological technique, developed by Aaron Beck and Albert Ellis, which involves gradual exposure to uncomfortable situations to change patterns of thought.
depression [accept general depressive disorder]
SSRIs [or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors]
CBT [or cognitive behavioral therapy, prompt on partial] &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following doubly-ionized elements in space.
“Forbidden” green spectral lines initially thought to be emitted by a new element, “nebulium,” were instead due to a doubly ionized version of this element that could only exist in low-density space. This element's unionized (“UN-i-on-ized”) form has 8 total electrons.
Variable stars change brightness due to the kappa-mechanism, changes between this element’s singly and doubly ionized forms, which have different opacity, at their outer portion.
Regions of the doubly ionized form of this element tend to be giant molecular clouds and hotspots of star formation. This element is the lightest and most abundant one in the universe.
oxygen
helium
hydrogen &lt;DM&gt;
The person after whom this quantity is named was also the first to decipher cartouches of Egyptian hieroglyphics. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity equal to force times original length over the quantity “area times change in length.”
Young’s modulus measures stiffness, or the proportion between force per unit area and this other quantity, often called deformation.
Strain is a unitless quantity, but stress isn’t! Given that stress is equal to force over area, give the name for its SI derived unit, the same as the SI unit for pressure.
Young’s modulus [do not prompt on partial answer]
strain
pascal [prompt on Pa] &lt;DM&gt;
Name the following about RC circuits. For 10 points each:
The C in RC stands for this circuit element, which stores charge, often between parallel plates.
The quantity R times C is known as this constant. It may help to do a dimensional analysis, knowing that V equals I times R and C equals q over V.
The RC circuit equation equates this quantity across the capacitor’s plates to the initial value for it times e to the quantity negative t over RC. Capacitance equals charge over this quantity.
capacitor
time constant
voltage [prompt on V] &lt;DM&gt;
Name some things about the chemistry of hardening materials that feature prominently in Beverly Cleary’s literature. For 10 points each:
When Ramona Quimby accidentally breaks a raw egg over her head, its contents are still liquid due to these molecules in the egg made of amino acids not having denatured.
Henry Huggins gets trapped in his clubhouse and rages that the floor is made of cement, which has hardened since its molecules have formed into this type of crystal with water in its crystal structure.
Daisy Kidd’s attic has a floor made of plaster, which Ramona promptly falls through. That plaster was likely made from this material, either calcium hydroxide or calcium oxide, known as its “slaked” and “quick” types.
proteins
hydrate
lime &lt;DM&gt;
Fish and reptiles are not considered true biological groups because they are not these things. For 10 points each:
Name these groups of species descended from a single common ancestor, or a single node on the tree of life.
Clades are a method of organizing species in this field, which sorts and categorizes species into groups.
This Swedish “father of taxonomy” published Systema Naturae. His remains are the type species for humans.
clade
taxonomy
Carl Linnaeus [accept Carl von Linné or Carolus Linnaeus] &lt;AJ&gt;
This point is the isogonal conjugate of the circumcenter. For 10 points each,
Name this point where all three altitudes of a triangle concur. In an obtuse triangle, this point is found outside the triangle.
The orthocenter lies on this line that also passes through the circumcenter and centroid. The center of the nine-point circle lies on this line between the orthocenter and circumcenter.
One point that does not necessarily lie on the Euler line is the incenter, which is the intersection of these lines from the vertices. These lines cut angles in half.
orthocenter [do not accept anything else]
Euler (“OIL-er”) line
angle bisectors &lt;BC&gt;
Let’s rub some things together! For 10 points each:
If you rub a coarse object against another coarse object, heat is generated due to this force that opposes the objects’ motion. This force also causes a box skidding across a table to eventually stop.
Frictional force is equal to the coefficient of friction times the magnitude of this force.
Pencil and paper ready. A mass with weight 1 newton is placed on a tabletop with coefficient of kinetic friction 0.5 and is connected by a pulley to a dangling mass with weight 1 newton. Find the acceleration of the moving masses, assuming that the pulley and string are frictionless and massless and that air resistance is negligible. You have 10 seconds.
friction
normal force
g/4 [generously accept anything between 2.4 and 2.5 m/s2 as an exact value; prompt on unitless values by asking “in what unit?”] &lt;DM&gt;
These structures can be divided by septa, which may allow movement of mitochondria, ribosomes, and nuclei. For 10 points each:
The spitzenkörper (“SPIT-sen-ker-per”) organelle is associated with growth in the tips of these filament-like structures. The meeting of two of these haploid structures produces a diploid fruiting body.
Hyphae are common in members of this kingdom, which includes mushrooms, molds, and yeast, and whose members have cells walls made of chitin (“KAI-tin”).
The specific association between hyphae and plant roots is known by this name.
hyphae (“HIGH-fay”)
fungi
mycorrhizae &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following about convection:
Convection is one method of transferring this entity, symbolized Q. This entity, contrasted with temperature, moves from high to low temperature and can be measured in joules; its namesake “engine” makes motion from it.
Convection occurs in these clouds smaller than hurricanes, which are characterized by a large, constantly rotating updraft and tend to produce the most severe storms, including tornadoes.
Convection caused by subduction and seafloor spreading occurs within this layer of the earth.
heat
supercells [prompt on cumulonimbus]
asthenosphere [prompt on mantle] &lt;DM&gt;
Nickel and a metal salt with this anion are used in batteries that have greater capacity than nickel-cadmium batteries. For 10 points each:
Name this ion, whose metal salts have also been proposed as ways to make fuel cells smaller. This ion is a stronger base than hydroxide, leading to its metal salts also being used in acid-base chemistry.
This is the first group on the periodic table from the left that does not form hydrides either ionically or covalently. Its members include sulfur, selenium, and tellurium.
While hydrogen doesn’t act as an anion with the chalcogens, it does form compounds as a cation, including in this strong acid containing the two lowest-mass chalcogens.
hydride
chalcogens [accept Group 16, Group VI (“six”), Group VI A, Group VI B, or Oxygen Group; accept answers containing the word family in place of group]
sulfuric acid [prompt on H2SO4; accept oil of vitriol] &lt;DM&gt;
. Let’s dissolve some salts in solution. For 10 points each:
Salts will undergo this process in polar solutions, in which the individual ions disconnect from one another and float freely in the solution.
Another property of ionic solutions is this colligative property which is often exploited to keep streets clear in the winter by salting them.
Dissolving ions in solution often increases this property of the solution. This property of allowing electron flow can be considered infinite in plasma and is in general very high in metals.
dissociation
freezing point depression [accept word forms like lowering the freezing point]
electrical conductivity &lt;AJ&gt;
Early examples of these chemicals were refined from poppies. For 10 points each:
Name these psychoactive chemicals which are currently the focus of a drug epidemic. Examples of these chemicals include heroin, fentanyl, and oxycontin.
An opioid overdose can lead to this condition, in which blood oxygen levels are too low to sustain life.
Hypoxia can be averted by using this opioid antagonist which can be administered nasally to treat opioid overdoses.
opioids [do not accept opiates]
hypoxia
naloxone [accept narcan or evzio] &lt;AJ&gt;
Name some things that end in -tion that happen to be organic reactions, for 10 points each:
In this process, hydrocarbons react with oxygen to form carbon dioxide and water, as well as releasing a lot of heat. Engines driven by this process are used in cars.
This process produces molecules with the general formula R-C-O-O-R prime and a famous example of it is named for Fischer; in that process, a carboxylic acid is treated with alcohol in the presence of a catalyst such as sulfuric acid.
The ester bonds found in fatty acids are cleaved in this reaction, which involves mixing an oil or fat with a base, often lye, to produce glycerin and soap.
combustion
esterification
saponification &lt;BC&gt;
Simple or multivariate? For 10 points each,
Name this statistical technique that commonly uses least squares methods to guess the parameters of its equations and assumes a constant relationship between its variables.
This type of statistic can either be used to determine independence or goodness of fit. It’s taken by summing up the square of the difference between expected and observed values divided by expected values.
This statistic determines whether or not to reject the null hypothesis; it is the probability that the null hypothesis could produce the observed result or something more extreme.
linear regression
chi-square
p-value &lt;BL&gt;
This law first appeared in a chapter called “Axiomata sive Leges Motus.” For 10 points each:
Name this law that states that an object’s acceleration is zero unless the object is acted on by a net external force.
Newton’s first law is often called the law of this property. This property is the tendency for an object to resist changes in its velocity.
Einstein showed in general relativity that gravity arises through curvatures in space-time. He hence showed that in an inertial reference frame, required for Newton’s First Law to hold, gravity has this property.
Newton’s 1st Law of Motion [prompt on partial]
inertia
fictitious &lt;DM&gt;
Vera Rubin’s study of the rotation rates of galaxies provided early evidence for this entity. For 10 points each:
MACHOs explain the presence of this entity, which is theorized to make up 23% of the universe and 95% of the universe’s mass. It is not dark energy.
One particle thought to make up dark matter is the WIMP, which only interacts with gravity and this force. W and Z bosons propagate this force.
The dark matter described by this adjective moves slowly compared to the speed of light.
dark matter
weak nuclear force
cold dark matter &lt;BC&gt;
The Kola Institute attempted to reach this boundary before quitting in 1989. For 10 points each:
Name this boundary that separates the crust from the layer directly below it. It is named for a Croatian seismologist.
The Moho discontinuity separates the crust from this layer below it. This layer is the largest layer of the earth.
The Moho discontinuity lies in this region of the mantle above the asthenosphere.
Mohorovičić (“mo-ho-ro-VEE-cheech”) discontinuity
mantle
lithosphere &lt;BC&gt;
In general, moving 100km upwards is the same as moving 80km polewards regarding temperature. For 10 points each:
Name this frigid biome that can occur in alpine or arctic types.
These organisms are critical in tundra biomes in general, including alpine tundra. They consist of a mutualistic relationship between an alga and fungus and can break down rock.
This term refers to the stunted trees growing at the tree line just below the start of the alpine tundra, which occurs due to freezing, harsh winds. One type of this vegetation is the flag tree.
alpine/arctic tundra
lichen
krummholz [accept knieholz or tuckamore] &lt;DM&gt;
The coefficient in this law can either be written in terms of k or epsilon-naught. For 10 points each:
Name this law which states that the strength of the electrostatic force between two charges is proportional to the product of the charges over their distance squared.
The proportionality constant in Coulomb's Law, k, is equal to 1 over the quantity 4 pi times the reciprocal of this value denoted epsilon-naught.
In this system of units, k has the numerical value of 1, as do c and big G.
Coulomb's Law
vacuum permittivity [accept permittivity of free space; prompt on partial answer; do not accept anything with “permeability”]
Planck units &lt;DM&gt;
Wake Island is a US possession in the western Pacific. Time to answer some science questions about events that happened on it! For 10 points each:
The Wake Island Rail gained this status sometime between 1942 and 1945 due to starving, besieged Japanese defenders overhunting it. A species gains this status when its last member dies.
When Pan American Airlines established PAA-ville on Wake Island for workers, it used this technique to grow terrestrial vegetables with water instead of with soil, due to the island’s lack of significant natural soil.
When the first Japanese were found on Wake Island following American control, the American vessel present helped treat a man with beriberi, caused by the lack of this vitamin.
extinct
hydroponics [accept hydroculture; do not accept “aquaculture”]
Vitamin B1 [accept thiamine; prompt on Vitamin B] &lt;DM&gt;
Cloud seeding involves putting nucleation sites into the air when it has this property. For 10 points each:
Name this property. In solutions with this property, the solvent has dissolved more solute than it can hold stably.
Normally when extra solute is introduced into a saturated solution, it will settle out in this process. In this process, a solid is created out of a solution. When this process occurs in clouds, it rains.
To supersaturate a solution, not only can you increase the temperature, but you can also increase this quantity. In a fluid, this quantity decreases as speed increases.
supersaturation [accept word forms; do not accept or prompt “saturation”]
precipitation [accept word forms]
pressure &lt;BC&gt;
We hope you know your calculus! For 10 points each:
Name this operation defined as the difference between the antiderivatives calculated at its boundaries in the fundamental theorem of calculus. It is commonly known as the area under a curve.
This man invented and names one method of approximating the integral, where the area under the curve is divided into rectangles and individually computed for each one.
While it isn’t a Riemann summation, this function’s improper integral can be approximated with the sum from k = 0 to infinity of 1 over k factorial, plus a constant.
integral [accept integration; accept definite integral]
Riemann [accept Riemann sum or Riemann method]
ex (“e to the x”) [prompt on exponential] &lt;EC&gt;
Answer some questions about arrows in mathematics, for 10 points each:
A “realization problem” is named for these types of graphs, which include arrows placed on edges. Each vertex of one of these types of graphs has both an indegree and an outdegree.
A “chained arrow notation” was created by this mathematician to represent very large integers. This British mathematician also created the surreal numbers and a namesake zero-player game.
Similarly, this man used an up-arrow notation to describe repeated exponentiation in very large integers. This man also created the TeX (“tek”) typesetting system.
directed graph or digraph (“die-graph”)
John Horton Conway
Donald Knuth &lt;Hao&gt;
The Lennard-Jones potential predicts that the potential energy of these interactions is proportional to the negative sixth power of distance. For 10 points each:
Name these weak intermolecular forces that exist between induced dipoles, named for a German scientist.
Another intermolecular force, a hydrogen bond, can create this system of two water molecules bound by a hydrogen bond. It is the simplest water cluster.
Two glucose molecules can react to form this dimer and water. This reducing sugar is a disaccharide with eight free hydroxyl groups.
London dispersion forces
water dimer
cellobiose &lt;Hao&gt;
This protein helps to arrest the cell at the G1 to S checkpoint. For 10 points each:
Name this “guardian angel of the genome.” Elephants notably have 20 copies of the gene that encodes for this protein, making them highly unlikely to get cancer.
This virus creates a protein called E6 which suppresses p53. Gardasil can help prevent infection by this virus. A non-cancerous strain of this virus can cause plantar warts.
The gene that encodes for p53 is located on this chromosome. The gene that encodes for gamma-actin is also located on this chromosome.
p53
Human PapillomaVirus
chromosome seventeen (17) &lt;Hao&gt;
According to Paschen's Law, this quantity is proportional to gas pressure times the distance between electrodes. For 10 points each:
Name this value, which is about three times ten to the sixth volts per meter for air.
The “avalanche” type of these devices operates in the reserve direction if the reverse bias voltage is greater than the breakdown voltage. These devices conduct current in only one direction.
This type of diode is different from an avalanche diode because it will stop conducting if the reverse bias voltage drops below the breakdown voltage.
breakdown voltage
diode
Zener diode &lt;Hao&gt;
The product of the standard deviations of these two quantities must be greater than the reduced Planck constant over 2. For 10 points each:
Name these two commutator variables in the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, often symbolized x and p.
A thought experiment proposed by Heisenberg to explain his Uncertainty Principle involves one of these devices resolving the position of an electron.
A demon named for this man can predict the future of the universe given the position and momentum of all particles. He also names a partial differential equation with Young that describes the capillary pressure at an interface.
position and linear momentum (need both)
Heisenberg’s microscope
Pierre-Simon Laplace &lt;Hao&gt;
One function named for this letter is defined for all complex numbers, except zero and the negative integers. For 10 points each:
Name this letter, which names an extension of the factorial function.
Gamma also names a constant approximately equal to 0.577, named for this man and Mascheroni.
Euler was a mathematician from this country. A problem he solved, asking for the sum of the reciprocals of all positive squares, is named for a city in this country.
gamma
Leonhard Euler
Switzerland &lt;Hao&gt;
The three structural genes in this structure are usually named Z, Y, and A. This structure also contains a promoter and a terminator. For 10 points each:
Name this structure which is responsible for the metabolism and transport of its namesake sugar. It was first observed in E.coli.
E.coli is an example of these types of organisms, which are used to study the biology of a wider range of organisms. Other types of these organisms include Drosophila melanogaster and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Another operon discovered in E.coli encodes for the production of this amino acid. This aromatic amino acid, which is encoded by the codon UGG, is the starting reactant for the biosynthesis of melatonin.
lac operon
model organisms
tryptophan &lt;Hao&gt;
Red blood cells cannot pass through this structure into the sinusoids in patients with hereditary spherocytosis. For 10 points each:
Name this structure that contains about half of the body's monocytes. It is named after an Australian surgeon.
The Cords of Billroth are found in the red pulp of this organ, where red blood cells are destroyed. This organ is the largest member of the lymphatic system.
These other tissues of the lymphatic system are the body’s first line of defense against ingested pathogens. These tissues may be removed in a common surgical procedure.
Cords of Billroth
spleen
tonsils &lt;Hao&gt;
This man famously created a logarithmic scale in which Newton was ranked at 0, and Einstein at 0.5. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian scientist, whose namesake pole is the value where the coupling constant of a quantum field theory becomes infinite.
Ginzburg and Landau name a theory of this phenomenon, where there is zero electrical resistance in an object.
Landau theory attempts to describe the second-order version of this process. The martensitic or diffusionless transformation is one type of this process.
Lev Landau
superconductivity (accept word forms)
phase transition &lt;Hao&gt;
The CIP rules name compounds with this property, and meso compounds do not exhibit this property. For 10 points each:
Name this property, which comes from the Greek for “handedness.” Molecules with this property cannot be superimposed on their mirror images.
Louis Pasteur first studied chirality in this organic molecule, which can be found in plants such as grapes. The formula for the compound is C4H6O6.
In an SN2 reaction, a Walden inversion can occur in chiral molecules with this geometry. Examples of molecules with this geometry include nickel carbonyl and methane.
chirality
tartaric acid
tetrahedral &lt;Hao&gt;
The functionality of this molecule is decreased in acidic conditions in the Bohr effect. For 10 points each:
Name this protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen.
This allosteric effector molecule promotes the release of oxygen molecules from hemoglobin, since it binds with greater affinity to deoxygenated hemoglobin.
If position six on the hemoglobin molecule is changed from this amino acid to valine, sickle-cell anemia occurs. This alpha-amino acid can be abbreviated by the letter E and the DNA codons GAA and GAG code for this amino acid.
hemoglobin
2, 3 Bisphosphoglycerate or 2, 3 BPG
Glutamic acid or Glu &lt;Hao&gt;
Hauser bases are created if an alkyl group in these compounds are replaced with amido groups. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds, whose chemical equilibriums are named for Schlenk. Dissolving these compounds in water yields alkanes.
Grignard reagents always include halides of this element, whose sulfate is found in Epsom salt.
Grignard reagents must be stored in one of these two compounds, since it decomposes in the presence of protons. Name either compound.
Grignard reagents
magnesium
diethyl ether or THF (or tetrahydrofuran) &lt;Hao&gt;
This man's “collapse” occurs when the three-body binding energy is infinite. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who also names a statistical distribution with Fermi which can be used to approximate the distribution of electrons in an atom. That theory laid the foundations for modern density functional theory.
Thomas also names a type of this effect which accounts for special relativity. This process occurs in torque-free and torque-induced forms and explains the motion of gyroscopes.
Precession is defined as change in the first Euler angle, but if the second Euler angle changes, then this effect occurs. This effect is physically manifested as a wobble or a swaying motion in the axis of rotation.
Llewellyn Thomas
precession
nutation &lt;Hao&gt;
Long-period types of these objects originate in the Oort Cloud. For 10 points each:
Name these balls of ice and dust from the outer solar system.
The tail of a comet has two parts: the dust tail and this other component, which always points away from the Sun.
This man calculated the 3.3-year orbit of the second discovered periodic comet, which is named for him. He also names the largest gap in Saturn’s A ring.
comets
ion tail
Johann Franz Encke &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Call-by-value and call-by-reference are strategies for performing this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process which involves plugging a call into a function and simplifying the ensuing expression.
This evaluation strategy is set to default in the languages Miranda and Haskell. In this strategy, an expression is not evaluated until it is needed in a later expression. It is the opposite of eager evaluation.
Lazy evaluation is often combined with this other technique. In this technique, function calls are cached, and the cached result is returned if the same function call is inputted later.
evaluation
lazy evaluation or call-by-need
memoization (do not accept “memorization”-there is no “r” in the correct answer) &lt;Hao&gt;
The densimetric form of this quantity uses the reduced gravity in the numerator instead of the actual gravitational acceleration. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which can be alternatively calculated as the Grashof number over the square of the Reynolds number.
The Richardson number can determine if this property is free or forced. This process can also be observed in Bénard cells.
A similar quantity to the Richardson number, defined as the Richardson number times the square of the Reynolds number, is named after this man. This man is said to have designed a giant claw and a heat ray of death to defend Syracuse.
Richardson number
convection
Archimedes &lt;Hao&gt;
The Keeling curve is one way to measure the concentration of this compound. For 10 points each:
Name this compound, whose supercritical fluid state is commonly used to decaffeinate coffee.
Carbon dioxide is often found in this gas, whose main components are hydrogen and carbon monoxide. This gas is often produced by the steam reforming reaction.
Felice Fontana discovered this reaction, in which hydrogen gas and carbon dioxide are products. This reaction is named for its two reactants.
carbon dioxide
syngas
water-gas shift reaction &lt;Hao&gt;
None of the organisms in this phylum have a brain, but they can regenerate lost limbs. For 10 points each:
Name this phylum of “spiny-skinned organisms” whose members exhibit five-fold radial symmetry.
Echinoderms are the simplest organisms in this super-phylum, which also includes chordates. Organisms in this super-phylum are characterized by the blastopore developing into an anus instead of a mouth.
In echinoderms, water enters the water vascular system through this opening, inside of which is the stone canal.
Echinodermata
deuterostomes
madreporite &lt;Hao&gt;
Answer the following questions about the color blue in chemistry. For 10 points each:
Seven atoms of iron and eighteen of these ions bind to form the pigment Prussian Blue. The Nazis used the hydrogen compound of this ion in concentration camps.
Copper (II) Sulfate, another bright blue compound, is often a hydrate consisting of this many water molecules. Pyridine also has this many carbon molecules.
This vital blue dye is derived from toluene, and its name refers to the fact that this compound can kill parasites that cause sleeping sickness. This dye was used to discover the blood-brain barrier.
cyanide
five
trypan blue &lt;Hao&gt;
This compound, known as <em>qinghao su</em> in Chinese, is often used against <em>Plasmodium falciparum</em> malaria. For 10 points each:
Name this compound which Tu Youyou (“yo-yo”) isolated to win the 2015 Nobel Prize in Medicine.
The action of artemisinin is thought to be due to an unusual bridge in the compound consisting of this functional group. This functional group is famously present in a rocket propellant along with hydrogen in H2O2.
Artemisinin has effectively replaced this compound as the main treatment for malaria. Stork names a “total synthesis” of this compound, which was originally isolated from the bark of a cinchona tree.
artemisinin
peroxide
quinine &lt;Hao&gt;
In this model, if the value “J sub i j” equals zero, then two spins are noninteracting. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical model that assigns a spin of plus one or minus one to each site in a lattice. The Potts model is a generalization of this model.
The Ising model describes materials with this property, the strongest type of magnetism. Iron has this property.
The noise associated with this effect can be used in non-destructive evaluation of some magnetic materials. In this effect, ferromagnetic materials become magnetized not continuously, but in small, discrete steps.
Ising model
ferromagnetism (accept word forms)
Barkhausen effect &lt;Hao&gt;
This technique is often used to show a closed formula for the sum of the first n positive integers. For 10 points each:
Name this proof technique that involves a base case and a namesake hypothesis.
Induction is equivalent to this statement, which states that every non-empty subset of the positive integers contains a least element.
Induction is closely related to infinite descent, which was used by this mathematician to prove the n=4 case of his namesake Last Theorem.
induction
Well-Ordering Principle (or WOP, do not accept or prompt on “Well-Ordering Theorem”)
Pierre de Fermat &lt;Hao&gt;
A Dean-Stark trap might be used to separate these substances. For 10 points each:
Name these substances which can be classified as either positive or negative. They are deviations from Raoult's Law.
Ethanol famously forms an azeotrope when its volume is this percentage of the total volume of a solution with water. Answers will be accepted to within 3 percent on both sides.
N-butanol and water form one of these types of azeotropes at 93.5 degrees Celsius. These types of azeotropes have a vapor phase coexisting with two liquid phases.
azeotrope
95% (so accept anything between 92% and 98%)
heteroazeotropes &lt;Hao&gt;
A discovery of this mineral on Mars is often presented as proof that water once flowed on the planet. For 10 points each:
Name this mineral, whose variants include selenite and alabaster.
This is the only mineral lower than gypsum on the Mohs hardness scale. It is often used in baby powder and is composed of hydrated magnesium silicate.
Talc comprises most of this metamorphic rock, which is also known as steatite. This acid-resistant rock is often used in countertops and floor tiles.
gypsum
talc
soapstone &lt;Hao&gt;
This physicist apocryphally stated that “it is not even wrong!” when confronted with an unfalsifiable theory. An “effect” named after this man referred to the likelihood of lab equipment breaking while he was in the vicinity. For 10 points each:
Name this physicist who also names a procedure used to isolate divergent terms from loop integrals with Villars. He also names 2 by 2 matrices that can be used to describe the spin of a particle.
Pauli theorized the existence of these particles, which are fermions that interact only via the weak force and gravity.
In 1940, Pauli re-derived this theorem, which states that the wavefunction of a system stays the same if two identical bosons are swapped, but it changes sign if two identical fermions are swapped.
Wolfgang Pauli
neutrinos
spin-statistics theorem &lt;Hao&gt;
Von Lindemann first proved that pi is this type of number, and Charles Hermite showed that <em>e</em> is also this type of number. For 10 points each:
Name this type of number, which cannot be the root of any polynomial with rational coefficients.
This French mathematician gave the first example of a transcendental number, which was 0.110001…, where a digit in the nth place after the decimal point was one if it was a factorial of another integer, and zero otherwise. He also names a theory with Sturm about second-order linear differential equations.
The fixed point of this function, which is also known as the Dottie point, is a transcendental number. In Euler’s formula, this function describes the real part of “e to the i x power.”
transcendental number
Joseph Liouville
cosine &lt;Hao&gt;
This man developed a safety lamp which used an iron mesh to prevent explosions in mines. He also hired Michael Faraday as an assistant after a lab accident. For 10 points each:
Name this English scientist who discovered many alkali and alkaline earth metals by using electrolysis.
Davy also disproved this man's theory that all acids contained oxygen. This man also published the first modern chemistry textbook, Elementary Treatise on Chemistry.
Lavoisier worked with Laplace to write this memoir, in which he detailed their finding that respiration was in fact an extremely slow combustion.
Humphry Davy
Antoine Lavoisier
On Heat &lt;Hao&gt;
These hormones trigger the degradation of DELLA proteins, and ent-kaurene is a precursor to this class of proteins. For 10 points each:
Name this class of proteins, which stimulates stem elongation in plants.
Eiichi Kurosawa first researched gibberellins in the fungus Gibberella fujikoroi, which caused this “foolish seedling” disease in rice crops in Asia.
All known gibberellins can be classified as diterpenoid types of these chemical compounds. In the Lewis definition of these compounds, they accept electron pairs.
gibberellins
Bakanae
acid &lt;Hao&gt;
The OGLE experiment uses a “micro” version of this effect to discover extrasolar planets. For 10 points each:
Name this effect, which was first found in the QSO 0957+561 double quasar.
Gravitational lensing results in the creation of a ring named for this person, who wrote four papers in his Annus Mirabilis year of 1905.
In gravitational lensing, the angle of deflection is equal to this number times mass times big G divided by the quantity distance times the speed of light. There are also this many gauge bosons, and Lorentz transformations apply to vectors with this many dimensions.
gravitational lensing
Albert Einstein
four &lt;Hao&gt;
Compass and straightedge ready. Pierre Wantzel proved that this construction is impossible since it involves solving an irreducible cubic equation. For 10 points each:
Name this classic impossible construction from the ancient Greeks that involved dividing an angle into a namesake number of parts.
Angle trisection can be done using a trisectrix named for this Scottish mathematician. He also names a special case of a Taylor series centered at x=0.
Another example of a trisectrix is the Tschirnhausen cubic, which was studied by its namesake, L'Hôpital, and this man. This man's namesake numbers are described by the formula “one over the quantity n plus one close quantity times the quantity two n choose n” and begin 1, 1, 2, 5, 14.
trisecting the angle
Colin MacLaurin
Eugène Catalan &lt;Hao&gt;
Viscose can be created from this compound, which can then be later turned into rayon. For 10 points each:
Name this most abundant organic compound on Earth, which makes up most of a plant's cell wall.
This other compound makes up most of bacterial cell walls. Penicillin inhibits the formation of this compound, thereby acting as an antibiotic.
This antimicrobial enzyme, which is naturally found in human tears and sweat, catalyzes the cleavage of bonds within peptidoglycan in bacterial cell walls, thus weakening them.
cellulose
peptidoglycan or murein
lysozyme &lt;Hao&gt;
Five third-order types of this phenomenon can be described by Seidel coefficients. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon caused by imperfect lenses, where optical images are distorted. One type of this phenomenon is called “chromatic.”
This type of aberration occurs when light at the edge of a lens refracts more strongly than light near the center. This adjective also describes a type of three-dimensional coordinate system using rho, phi, and theta.
Aberrations can be described by these polynomials that are orthogonal on the unit circle. These polynomials can be applied in ENZ theory.
aberration
spherical aberration
Zernike polynomials   &lt;Hao&gt;
Seelig's ribozymes can catalyze this reaction, and one version of this reaction uses 1,1 diarylethylene and is named for Wagner and Juaregg. For 10 points each:
Name this 4+2 cycloaddition of a diene and a dienophile.
The Diels-Alder reaction forms a cyclic version of this molecule, with formula C6H10.
Cyclohexene can be cleaved to form adipic acid using hydrogen peroxide and this element as a catalyst. This metal is found along with oxygen and calcium in scheelite.
Diels-Alder reaction
cyclohexene (do not accept hexane or hexyne)
tungsten &lt;Hao&gt;
A watery diarrhea stool is a characteristic of this disease. For 10 points each:
Name this disease, which was studied by John Snow during an epidemic in London.
Heterozygous carriers of mutation Delta F508, which can cause this disorder, are more resistant to cholera. People with this disorder may have difficulty absorbing and maintaining reserves of Vitamin K.
In young patients with cystic fibrosis, this bacterium is often the most common in the respiratory tract. This Gram-positive bacterium secretes the TSST-1 superantigen, which can cause toxic shock syndrome.
cholera
cystic fibrosis or CF
Staphylococcus aureus &lt;Hao&gt;
The strength of this phenomenon is multiplied by the two-thirds power of volume in the Eötvös rule. For 10 points each:
Name this property of liquids caused by cohesive forces. This property can be lowered by surfactants.
The De Noüy method, which is used to calculate the surface tension in a liquid, uses a ring made of this metal. Adam’s catalyst contains this element along with oxygen and hydrate.
A long chain of platinum atoms are bound to either ammonia groups or chlorides in this person's “green salt.” This man also discovered a famous physical effect important in sports such as soccer and table tennis involving bending caused by rotation of the ball.
surface tension
platinum
Heinrich Gustav Magnus &lt;Hao&gt;
Peter Barlow formulated an incorrect version of this law by setting current proportional to the inverse square root of length. For 10 points each:
Name this law, which in its simplest form states that voltage equals current times resistance.
This other law, which states that the magnetomotive force equals the magnetic flux times the magnetic reluctance, is the magnetic analogue of Ohm’s law.
This man generalized Ohm's Law to the equation “J equals sigma times E.” This man was also the first to use the term “blackbody radiation,” and he is also the namesake of a diffraction formula and integral theorem.
Ohm’s Law
Hopkinson’s Law
Gustav Kirchhoff &lt;Hao&gt;
Light and dark bands on these objects are called ogives. For 10 points each:
Name these large, slow-moving masses of ice that may leave behind moraines.
When glaciers retreat, these types of shallow lakes may be formed. Walden Pond is a famous example of these types of lakes.
This term describes any large glacial outburst flood from a subglacial or proglacial lake. This term is derived from the name of the largest glacier in Iceland.
glaciers
kettle lake
jökulhlaup &lt;Hao&gt;
The Boolean type of these objects require that x squared equal x for all x in these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic structures which combine an abelian group of a generalized addition operation with a monoid of a generalized multiplication operation, with multiplication distributing over addition. The set of integers is an example of these algebraic structures.
Fields are distinguished from rings because fields have one of these objects corresponding to every other element in them. In rings, elements that have these objects are called units.
Rings do not have to be commutative over multiplication. This ring, created by William Rowan Hamilton, is the most famous example of a ring that does not commute over multiplication. This ring is an extension of the complex numbers into four dimensions.
rings
multiplicative inverse
quaternions &lt;Hao&gt;
August Kekulé reportedly dreamed of an Ouroboros while discovering the structure of this molecule. For 10 points each:
Name this carcinogenic, cyclic, molecule which can undergo the Friedel-Crafts acylation or alkylation.
When atoms are substituted in the 1 and 3 positions on the benzene ring, it is called this type of substitution. These four letters also appear at the beginning of an alternative term for a double-displacement reaction.
Replacing a single carbon-hydrogen group in benzene with an isopropyl group gives this compound. This compound’s namesake process is mainly used to create acetone, with phenol as a side product.
benzene
meta (the alternative term is metathesis)
cumene &lt;Hao&gt;
These structures contain large amounts of the protein calsequestrin. For 10 points each:
Name these structures found in muscle cells that are a modified form of another organelle that comes in rough and smooth varieties.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum is responsible for storing this element. This element is also found in milk and stored in bones.
This hormone is released in response to low calcium levels in the blood. This hormone also increases the activity of 1-alpha-hydroxylase enzyme, which converts inactive Vitamin D to active Vitamin D.
sarcoplasmic reticulum or SR
calcium or Ca
parathyroid hormone or PTH &lt;Hao&gt;
A one-dimensional variation of these substances is a Tonks-Girardeau gas. For 10 points each:
Name this doubly-eponymous state of matter where certain particles are all brought near absolute zero, so that they are all at the same quantum state.
Steven Chu, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji, and William Phillips won the 1997 Nobel Prize in Physics for cooling a clump of atoms of this element to create the first Bose-Einstein condensate.
This Danish physicist used a Bose-Einstein condensate to completely stop a beam of light in 2001. She later laser-cooled a group of rubidium atoms to a fraction above absolute zero.
Bose-Einstein condensate or BEC
rubidium
Lene Hau &lt;Hao&gt;
In one work, Herbert Dreyfus described <em>What (these things) Can’t Do</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these things that Dreyfus argued will always rely on symbols rather than unconscious instincts.
In the paper “Minds, Brains, and Programming,” John Searle made this thought experiment to argue that computers will never have consciousness, no matter how human looking they appear.
This computer scientist helped crack the enigma machine during World War II and names a test for determining if a computer has achieved strong A.I. that is based on its ability to pass for a human in conversation.
computers (prompt on robots, artificial intelligence, or machines)
Chinese room argument
Alan Turing &lt;McLain&gt;
Kundt's tube can be used to measure this quantity in a gas or a solid rod. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is equal to the square root of Young’s modulus divided by density in a solid.
At Mach 1, the Prandtl-Glauert transformation fails, since it predicts an object would experience an infinite amount of this quantity, which is the force per unit area.
This effect occurs when the speed of sound in a liquid decreases if a powder is mixed in with the liquid. It is alternatively known as the allasonic effect.
speed of sound
pressure
hot chocolate effect &lt;Hao&gt;
In a triangle, the sum of any two sides must be greater than the third. Answer some questions about other inequalities. For 10 points each:
According to the trivial inequality, the square of every real number is greater than or equal to this number.
This other inequality states that for any two sequences u sub i and v sub i, then the square of the sum of the products between the corresponding terms in each product is less than or equal to the product of the sums of the squares of the terms in each sequence. Another version of this inequality takes the inner product and dot product of vectors.
An inequality named for this person states that the quantity one plus x raised to the nth power is always greater than or equal to one plus x times n for all n greater or equal to negative one. Another man with the same last name as this man developed the idea of expected utility to resolve the St. Petersburg paradox.
zero
Cauchy-Schwarz inequality
Jacob Bernoulli &lt;Hao&gt;
The GCM models this statistic, which is usually measured over a 30-year period. For 10 points each:
Name this statistic, which differs from weather in that this statistic is long-term, not short-term.
This system of climate classification is the most widely used. In this system, climates are classified into five groups labeled A through E, with extra letters added for more specificity.
The letters Cs in the Köppen climate classification for a location indicates specific type of temperate climate. Notable cities with this type of climate include Santiago and San Francisco.
climate
Köppen classification system
Mediterranean climate &lt;Hao&gt;
This element is almost always in the +1 oxidation state, and it is the best electrical conductor out of all the elements, even when tarnished. For 10 points each:
Name this transition metal. A positive result in Tollens' test is indicated by a precipitate of this element, which forms a namesake “mirror.”
In this experiment, silver particles were fired at an inhomogeneous magnetic field. This experiment proved the quantization of intrinsic angular momentum.
The Ag+ ion has this property. The Langevin theory applies to materials with this property, and levitating magnets use this property.
silver
Stern-Gerlach experiment
diamagnetism (accept word forms) &lt;Hao&gt;
The Boolean type of these objects require that x squared equal x for all x in these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic structures which combine an abelian group of a generalized addition operation with a monoid of a generalized multiplication operation, with multiplication distributing over addition. The set of integers is an example of these algebraic structures.
Fields are distinguished from rings because fields have one of these objects corresponding to every other element in them. In rings, elements that have these objects are called units.
Rings do not have to be commutative over multiplication. This ring, created by William Rowan Hamilton, is the most famous example of a ring that does not commute over multiplication. This ring is an extension of the complex numbers into four dimensions.
rings
multiplicative inverse
quaternions &lt;Hao&gt;
August Kekulé reportedly dreamed of an Ouroboros while discovering the structure of this molecule. For 10 points each:
Name this carcinogenic, cyclic, molecule which can undergo the Friedel-Crafts acylation or alkylation.
When atoms are substituted in the 1 and 3 positions on the benzene ring, it is called this type of substitution. These four letters also appear at the beginning of an alternative term for a double-displacement reaction.
Replacing a single carbon-hydrogen group in benzene with an isopropyl group gives this compound. This compound’s namesake process is mainly used to create acetone, with phenol as a side product.
benzene
meta (the alternative term is metathesis)
cumene &lt;Hao&gt;
These structures contain large amounts of the protein calsequestrin. For 10 points each:
Name these structures found in muscle cells that are a modified form of another organelle that comes in rough and smooth varieties.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum is responsible for storing this element. This element is also found in milk and stored in bones.
This hormone is released in response to low calcium levels in the blood. This hormone also increases the activity of 1-alpha-hydroxylase enzyme, which converts inactive Vitamin D to active Vitamin D.
sarcoplasmic reticulum or SR
calcium or Ca
parathyroid hormone or PTH &lt;Hao&gt;
Francis Perrin discovered that this process naturally occurred in Oklo, Gabon around two million years ago. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which energy is released by the splitting of a large nucleus.
This scientist was the first to explain the theory of nuclear fission. Notably, she never received the Nobel Prize for her work, the award was instead given to her collaborator Otto Hahn.
This formula can be used to determine the outcome of nuclear fission in an infinite medium. This formula does not contain the fast non-leakage probability and the thermal non-leakage probability, both of which occurs in a similar formula for non-infinite media.
nuclear fission
Lise Meitner
four-factor formula &lt;Hao&gt;
This constant describes the frequency of molecular collisions, and whether those molecules are properly oriented when they collide. For 10 points each:
Name this constant, which is multiplied by “e to the quantity negative e sub a over r t” (say slowly) in a certain equation.
That previous equation calculates the rate constant and is named for this Swedish scientist.
An Arrhenius plot can be used to find the activation energy and pre-exponential factor by graphing these two quantities on the axes. As determined by the Arrhenius equation, these two quantities have a linear relationship.
pre-exponential factor (prompt on A)
Svante Arrhenius
one over Temperature (or reciprocal of Temperature) and ln(k) (or natural logarithm of k, k=rate constant) MUST GIVE BOTH ANSWERS TO BE CORRECT &lt;Hao&gt;
Extra copies of this structure may result in Klinefelter's syndrome, and hemophilia is a recessive trait on this chromosome. For 10 points each:
Name this human sex chromosome, which most females have two copies of.
Lyonization of X chromosomes can inactivate them and form these structures. These structures are responsible for the fur color of calico cats.
This RNA gene on the long arm of the X chromosome plays a major role in inactivating it. It forms the X chromosome inactivation center along with Jpx, Ftx, Tsx, and Cnbp2.
X chromosome
Barr bodies
XIST or X-inactive specific transcript &lt;Hao&gt;
These systems can be classified as visual, spectroscopic, or astrometric depending on how they are detected. For 10 points each:
Name these systems in which two stars orbit around a common center of mass.
In this type of binary system, both stars have orbital planes very close to our line of sight, causing one star to pass in front of the other.
This star names a class of variable eclipsing binaries composed of a main sequence star and a cooler and less massive companion. Located in the constellation Perseus, it is known as the “Demon Star” for its variability.
Binary stars
Eclipsing binary (do not accept nor prompt on word forms)
Algol &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Specific types of these algorithms include bubble and heap. For 10 points each:
Name these algorithms, which put the elements in an array in order.
Tony Hoare developed this divide-and-conquer sorting algorithm in 1959. This algorithm recursively chooses a pivot in an array and partitions it to arrange the array in order.
In the worst-case scenario, quicksort has this runtime. Selection sort always has this runtime, no matter what the list is.
sorting
quicksort
O(n2) (“O n squared” or similar answers) &lt;Hao&gt;
Water, ethanol, and hydrogen fluoride are all notable exceptions to this rule. A common application of this role is to calculate the enthalpy of vaporization for a liquid with known boiling point. For 10 points each:
Name this rule which states that a certain quantity for the boiling of a liquid is almost always between 85 and 88 Joules per Kelvin per Mole.
That aforementioned quantity is the this of vaporization. This quantity is equal to 0 in a perfect crystal, and this quantity will increase over time for an isolated system by the 2nd Law of Thermodynamics.
This man, who first formulated the idea of entropy, referred to it as the “transformation content.” He also attached his own name to a now-obsolete unit of entropy.
Trouton's Rule
entropy
Rudolf Clausius &lt;Hao&gt;
Wien's law sets this quantity as inversely proportional to temperature for blackbody radiation. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is equal to about 400 to 700 nanometers for visible light.
De Broglie’s wavelength can be expressed as this quantity over momentum. This quantity is also equal to two times the elementary charge divided by the Josephson constant.
If the energy level a is less than the energy level b, then the Rydberg formula sets the inverse of wavelength proportional to this two-term expression of a and b.
wavelength
Planck’s constant (prompt on “h”)
the difference of the reciprocals of their squares or one over a squared minus one over b squared (1/a2-1/b2) &lt;Hao&gt;
Coats' disease is often diagnosed in this structure, and Miller glial cells are found in this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this structure, which is separated from the sclera by the choroid.
A “cherry red spot” develops in the retina in this disease, which is notoriously common in Ashkenazi Jews.
Among other structures, the retina, fovea, macula, and optic disk make up this area in the back of the eye, opposite the lens. This area also names a type of photography used to capture sections of the eye.
retina
Tay-Sachs disease
fundus &lt;Hao&gt;
Ziegler-Natta catalysts can synthesize these molecules from 1-alkenes. For 10 points each:
Name these molecules such as Kevlar and nylon composed of a chain of repeating monomer units.
This theory of polymer solutions includes a chi factor for energy created between interactions of polymer and solvent molecules. It is a modification of the G=H-TS equation for Gibbs Free Energy.
This polymer, which has repeating unit C5O2H8, can be used as a matrix in the gain medium of solid-state dye lasers. It is more commonly known as acrylic glass or Plexiglas.
polymer
Flory-Huggins theory
PMMA or Polymethyl methacrylate &lt;Hao&gt;
Gluing three of these objects together might create a fidget spinner. For 10 points each:
Name this surface, which generated by revolving a circle around a coplanar axis in 3D space.
Tori are homeomorphic to a product operation named for this man performed on two circles. This man also names a theorem about four mutually tangent circles and a “plane” which can be used to plot ordered pairs.
Coloring tori requires at most this many colors, as opposed the four which are sufficient on a plane. There are this many Millennium Problems, one of which has been solved by Grigori Perelman.
torus
René Descartes
seven &lt;Hao&gt;
People with Marfan syndrome may develop aneurysms in this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this artery that carries blood from the left ventricle. It is the largest blood vessel in the body.
Blood from both ventricles may enter the aorta in the “overriding aorta” syndrome of this disease. Cyanosis may develop in patients with this syndrome.
The aorta eventually splits up into these two arteries near the abdomen. These two arteries then later split up into “internal” and “external” arteries of the same name.
Aorta
Tetralogy of Fallot
common iliac arteries &lt;Hao&gt;
Amdahl's Law is used to calculate the theoretical improvement of computational speed granted by this technique. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which more than one computational process is carried out simultaneously. Pipelining is one way this technique can be achieved at the instruction level.
Parallel programming is often implemented using these units of execution. Several of them can work concurrently as a part of one computational process.
Parallel computing is made much easier with the use of processors that have multiple independent processing units, which are each known by this word.
parallel computing [or concurrent computing; accept parallel processing or programming]
threads
cores [accept multi-core processors] &lt;Minarik, Science - Computer Science&gt;
This form of isomerism is easily visualized on Fischer projections by swapping the left and right sides at a single carbon. For 10 points each:
Identify this term referring to diastereomers (die-uh-stereo-murrs) that differ at only one stereocenter, often seen in sugar molecules. Anomers are a special kind of them, and glucose and galactose share this form of isomerism.
Molecules with this property, classified as either dextrorotatory (DEX-tro-RO-tuh-tory) or levorotatory, cannot be superimposed on their mirror image.
Chiral centers are denoted either R or S in this system of rules used to name compounds with multiple stereoisomers.
epimerism [or epimers]
chiral (KYE-rull) [or chirality; prompt on stereoisomerism; prompt on enantiomerism]
Cahn–Ingold–Prelog priority rules [or CIP priority rules; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
One step in the derivation of this equation assumes that the product of the differential change in mass times the differential change in velocity is vanishingly small compared to the other terms. For 10 points each:
Name this equation whose right-hand side term is proportional to the natural log of the mass ratio.
The ideal rocket equation shows that while the efficiency of rocket propulsion is logarithmically proportional to the amount of fuel, it's linearly proportional to this quantity.
The ideal rocket equation is derived from the conservation of this quantity. It equals mass times velocity.
ideal rocket equation [accept Tsiolkovsky rocket equation]
exhaust velocity [accept answers indicating the velocity of the fuel or velocity of the propellant; accept specific impulse; prompt on velocity; do not accept or prompt on "impulse"]
linear momentum [prompt on p; do not accept or prompt on "angular momentum"] &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
Answer the following about optical aberrations, for 10 points each:
Chromatic aberrations arise when this value is dependent on the incident wavelength, causing different colors to focus to different points. This quantity multiplies a sine function in Snell's law.
Some cameras minimize aberration using a doublet of compound lenses named for this scientist, who also names the cgs (C-G-S) unit for magnetic field.
This kind of aberration arises when using a lens to view an object far away from the optical axis; the resulting distortion makes it appear as though the object has a tail.
index of refraction [or refractive index; prompt on n]
Carl Friedrich Gauss [accept Double Gauss lens]
coma aberration [accept comatic aberration; do not accept or prompt on "chromatic aberration"] &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
In 1997, Fred Hoyle won the Crafoord Prize for his theoretical work on this process. For 10 points each:
Hoyle theorized the existence of a resonance state in carbon-12 that had been formed as a result of this reaction. It takes three helium nuclei as inputs.
Hoyle surmised that life could not exist without that resonance; thus, it is argued that Hoyle's prediction was a "successful" use of this principle, which holds that the universe must be consistent with the fact that human life exists within it.
According to Hoyle, most of the Earth's carbon was formed in the interiors of these structures, the site of the triple alpha process. The CNO cycle and proton–proton chain both generate energy in these objects.
triple alpha process
anthropic principle [accept cosmological anthropic principle; accept the weak or strong anthropic principle; prompt on fine-tuned universe]
stars [or stellar interiors; accept specific types of stars] &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
An analysis by Preston Marx concluded that this virus has been infecting monkeys in the island of Bioko for at least 20,000 years. For 10 points each:
Name this virus that was first isolated from rhesus macaques in 1985. This virus causes immunodeficiency symptoms resembling AIDS.
Just like HIV, SIV compromises the immune system by affecting the "helper" type of these cells. These white blood cells also include the "cytotoxic" type.
SIV can affect many cells in the immune system by triggering pyroptosis (pie-ROP-toe-sis). Pyroptosis is a special case of this general process of programmed cell death, which involves a proteolytic cascade of caspases.
SIV [or simian immunodeficiency viruses]
helper T cells [or CD4+ T cells; or cytotoxic T cells; or CD8+ T cells]
apoptosis &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
The Court Jester hypothesis, which considered abiotic interactions, was formed in response to this theory. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis named for a Lewis Carroll character. It states that species must continuously evolve as they are locked in a coevolutionary arms race.
The Red Queen hypothesis explains how this mode of reproduction is advantageous because it allows for faster evolution than offspring produced from a single organism. This type of reproduction involves the fusion of gametes to form zygotes in fertilization.
The Red Queen hypothesis was proposed by this man, who defined the ecological species concept. This American biologist names a "Law of Extinction."
Red Queen hypothesis
sexual reproduction
Leigh Van Valen &lt;Grames, Science - Biology&gt;
A 2018 biography of this mathematician by Massimo Mazzotti discusses how she eventually renounced mathematics and devoted herself to God. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematician who names a curve formed by tracing the secant line as a circle is rotated.
Maria Agnesi discussed the witch of Agnesi in one of the first textbooks on this discipline, which has "differential" and "integral" forms.
The witch of Agnesi was first constructed by Luigi Grandi, whose namesake series consists of "one minus one plus one minus one" and so on. That series is notable since it only has the "conditional" form of this property of tending towards a finite value.
Maria Agnesi (ahn-YAY-zee) [accept witch of Agnesi]
calculus
convergence [or convergent] &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
One of these substances, cyalamate, was banned by the FDA in 1969 after its use was linked to bladder cancer in trials with rats. For 10 points each:
Name these food additives. They include aspartame (ASS-par-tame) and saccharin (SACK-uh-rin) and are sold under brand names such as Stevia.
The artificial sweetener aspartame can be dangerous for individuals with PKU, as they cannot metabolize this amino acid that makes up part of the aspartame molecule. This essential amino acid has a benzyl side chain.
This molecule, the most common artificial sweetener used in food products, is formed by the chlorination of another disaccharide. It is sold under the brand name Splenda.
artificial sweeteners [or sugar substitutes; do not accept or prompt on "sugar"]
phenylalanine [prompt on Phe or F]
sucralose [prompt on Splenda] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
An event at this facility created the "Red Forest," whose name references the color of a group of dead pine trees. For 10 points each:
Name this nuclear power station in Ukraine. In 1986, it caused a nuclear accident that devastated the town of Pripyat (PRIP-yott).
Scientists have observed high rates of this phenomenon in the birds of Chernobyl. It's not blindness, but people with this condition in Tanzania have been murdered for their body parts.
A one-gigawatt facility of this type at Chernobyl will go online in 2018. The largest one of these operations in the world in 2017 is the "Kurnool Ultra Mega" in Andhra Pradesh.
Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant [or Chernobyl Nuclear Power Station; or V. I. Lenin Nuclear Power Station]
albinism [accept albino]
solar farm [or solar power plant; or solar panels; or solar park; or solar ranch; or photovoltaic power station; prompt on things like power plant] &lt;Jose, Geography - Europe&gt;
A conductivity meter is often used to provide an estimate of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this measure of all the soluble substances in a sample of groundwater. Abbreviated TDS, it is often used as a measure of the amount of contaminants.
In this kind of water, the total dissolved solids is less than 1,000 milligrams per liter. This kind of water becomes brackish when it is mixed with its more saline counterpart.
If there are over 35,000 milligrams of total dissolved solids per liter in a sample of water, then it is classified as this kind of water. Namesake, saline-loving "shrimp" dwell in "pools" of this kind of water.
total dissolved solids [accept answers indicating dissolved solids count; prompt on TDS]
freshwater [accept sweet water]
brine water [or briny water; accept brine shrimp] &lt;Jose, Science - Earth Science&gt;
Measurements of this phenomenon were used in the Michelson–Morley experiment to suggest the non-existence of the luminiferous aether. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which two light waves with the same frequency add together in a "constructive" or "destructive" fashion.
Michelson's interferometer consists of two perpendicular arms and one of these optical devices, which take one input wave and produce two output waves.
This scientist performed two experiments involving rotating capacitors and resistors, respectively, to test for the luminiferous aether. He carried out the former of those experiments alongside H. R. Noble.
interference [accept constructive interference or destructive interference]
beam splitter [prompt on splitter; prompt on BS]
Frederick Thomas Trouton &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
Accumulation of one type of these molecules can lead to Sandhoff disease or an "AB variant" version of another disease. For 10 points each:
Name these fatty acid derivatives found on cell surfaces. These molecules, which are made of a glyco-sphingo-lipid with a sialic acid, include GM1 and GM2.
The buildup of GM2 gangliosides due to a mutation in the HEXA gene leads to this disease. Sufferers of this autosomal recessive disease have a characteristic red spot on the retina.
The mutation in Tay–Sachs disease causes the enzyme hexosaminidase A (hexose-uh-MIN-ih-dace AY) to malfunction. Hexosaminidase A is found with other hydrolytic enzymes in this eukaryotic organelle, which breaks down unneeded molecules in the cell.
gangliosides (GANG-lee-oh-sides) [accept GM1 gangliosides or GM2 gangliosides; prompt on lipids]
Tay–Sachs disease
lysosomes &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
These four letters were selected from the line shapes observed in emission spectra of alkali elements. For 10 points each:
Identify these four letters used for writing out electron configuration. They name four blocks of elements on the periodic table.
This quantum number determines whether one, three, five or seven orbitals are available in a subshell, and thus can vary between negative-three and three for f-orbitals.
When filling in orbitals, electrons are added to the lowest energy orbitals first according to this rule. Chromium violates this rule, since it has only one s-electron and five half-filled d-orbitals.
s, p, d, AND f [or sharp, principal, diffuse, AND fundamental; accept answers in any order; do not accept or prompt on incomplete answers]
magnetic quantum number [or m-sub-l; accept third quantum number]
aufbau (OWFF-bow) principle [prompt on building-up principle] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
According to the NHLBI, this condition affects Puerto Rican children 2.4 times more frequently than white children in the United States. For 10 points each:
Identify this chronic disorder. This condition can be treated with leukotriene (LUKE-oh-TRY-een) receptor antagonists that disrupt the signals that cause the inflammation and airway constriction characteristic of it.
A common way to relieve asthma symptoms during asthma attacks is to deliver a puff of bronchodilator or corticosteroid via one of these handheld devices.
Samter's triad describes asthma that is induced when patients take this drug. One effect of this drug is to reduce clotting by its targeting of prostaglandins.
asthma
inhaler [or metered-dose inhaler; or MDI]
aspirin [or acetylsalicylate; or acetylsalicylic acid; prompt on ASA] &lt;Bentley, Science - Biology&gt;
The very first "commit message" made with this program calls this software the "information manager from hell." For 10 points each:
Name this distributed version control system. This program is often used to "push" code to a social coding website known as its "Hub."
Linus Torvalds developed Git to manage this large program. Fedora and Ubuntu are two commonly-used "distributions" of the operating system named after this "kernel."
This operation is done to join branches in Git. Git automatically performs this process using a "three-way" algorithm, but manual intervention is required when namesake "conflicts" result.
Git [accept GitHub]
Linux kernel [prompt on the kernel]
merges [accept merging; accept merge conflicts; accept three-way merge] &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
The rotational type of these devices places a fluid between two concentric cylinders, measuring the forces on the fluid when one of the cylinders is rotated. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that measure the shearing properties of materials. Unlike viscometers, they work for fluids that don't have a constant viscosity.
Fluids that have a constant viscosity are named for this scientist, who also stated that an applied force on an object is equalized by an opposite-direction reaction force.
Viscosity is defined as the ratio of the shear form of this quantity to the shear rate. This quantity, which has units of pressure, induces strain in a material.
rheometers [do not accept "rheostats"]
Isaac Newton
shear stress &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
Scintillators are alternatives to these devices. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that produce audible clicking noises in response to radioactivity.
Specifically, Geiger counters detect the presence of this type of radiation, which has sufficient energy to strip electrons off of a material.
Hans Geiger also co-discovered an empirical law describing the time-scale of this process. Later, George Gamow (GAM-off) rigorously proved that law by assuming that this process occurs via quantum tunneling.
Geiger counter
ionizing radiation
alpha decay [prompt on decay] &lt;Prieto, Science - Physics&gt;
In some kinds of rocks, large phenocrysts are embedded in this material. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the finer-grained minerals into which larger-grained crystals are embedded.
In this class of rocks, which have a volcanic origin, phenocrysts often come suspended in the matrix. Basalt and andesite (AN-deez-ite) are examples of these rocks, which are classified as either extrusive or intrusive.
This coarse-grained rock occasionally has phenocrysts embedded in its matrix. This intrusive equivalent of basalt forms beneath Earth's surface and makes up much of the oceanic crust.
matrix [or groundmass]
igneous rocks
gabbro &lt;Jose, Science - Earth Science&gt;
The Late phase of this period saw a greater use of gumming and hafting techniques to join wood to its namesake material. For 10 points each:
Identify this age during which agriculture first developed. It was followed by the Bronze Age.
One of the most important composite tools developed during the Late Stone Age was this one. Stone wrist guards from the Beaker Culture may have been used as bracers to protect one's wrist when using these tools.
This "Iceman" who died around 3400 BC carried with him some 14 arrows and was probably killed by an arrow wound to his shoulder. He was found in the Alps in 1991.
Stone Age [or Lithic Age]
bow and arrow [or bow and arrow]
Ötzi (URT-see) [or Similaun Man; or the Man from Hauslabjoch; or the Tyrolean Iceman; or the Hauslabjoch mummy] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
This archipelago is home to a namesake penguin, which is the only penguin species found north of the equator in the wild. For 10 points each:
Name this island archipelago, home to animals such as the blue-footed booby and birds known as "Darwin's finches."
In the 1980s, Peter and Rosemary Grant studied how the Galápagos finch Geospiza fortis showed rapid evolution of beak size due to this type of natural event, which reduced the availability of small seeds.
The increase in beak size of Geospiza fortis was an example of this type of natural selection, in which an extreme phenotype is favored over others. Giraffes get their long necks due to this type of natural selection.
Galápagos Islands
drought
directional selection &lt;Grames, Science - Biology&gt;
The 2015 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded for observations on how these particles mix between different eigenstates. For 10 points each:
Name these uncharged leptons.
There are this many different neutrino eigenstates. This is the number of generations of quark, with each generation containing two quarks.
The 2002 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded for neutrino oscillation observations made by a physicist from this facility. Work done at this facility has led to seven Nobel Prizes, including as the discovery of the J/psi (JAY-sigh or gypsy) meson, which was independently discovered by scientists at SLAC.
neutrinos
three [or 3]
Brookhaven National Laboratory &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
<em>Pachycereus pringlei</em> (packy-serious PRING-lee) is the world's tallest species of these plants, which have bumps known as areoles and can have bristles called glochids (GLOW-kids). For 10 points each:
Name these plants that include the monotypic genus Carnegiea (CAR-nuh-JEE-uh). Acanthochronology studies the modified leaves of these plants.
Cacti are commonly found in these arid biomes with little precipitation, which can be home to xerophytes (ZERO-phytes) such as the Joshua tree and the rose of Jericho. Antarctica is the largest of these biomes on Earth.
Cacti are a member of this group of plants, which are thickened and fleshy to retain water in arid climates. These plants, which commonly undergo CAM photosynthesis, include stonecrops and Aloe vera.
cacti [or cactus]
deserts
succulent plants &lt;Grames, Science - Biology&gt;
This protein and Hunchback localize to the anterior section of an embryo during development, opposite to the Nanos and Caudal proteins. For 10 points each:
Name this protein. Mutants of this protein lack a head and thorax; instead, they have posterior appendages on both ends of their body.
The gene encoding the Bicoid protein is thought to have evolved from the Hox3 gene. Hox genes are a subset of these genes, which encode transcription factors that direct cells to form different parts of the body.
Many morphogens, including Bicoid, were discovered in these model organisms, leading to the genesis of the field of evo-devo. Thomas Hunt Morgan pioneered the study of these organisms.
Bicoid
homeotic genes
Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit fly] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
The creator of this device built a room coated in metal and showed the absence of electric charge on its walls after striking the room with high-voltage discharges. For 10 points each:
Name this device used to block electromagnetic fields, typically made by using a mesh of conductive materials.
Michael Faraday devised a law describing this phenomenon, in which a changing magnetic field generates a voltage difference.
Written in differential form using vector calculus, Faraday's law states that one operation applied to the electric field equals the negative of another operation applied to the magnetic field. Give both operations in order, starting with the one applied to the electric field.
Faraday cage [or Faraday shield]
electromagnetic induction
the curl of the electric field AND the partial time derivative of the magnetic field [accept del cross in place of "curl"; prompt on "partial derivative" in place of "time derivative"; do not accept or prompt on "del" or "gradient"] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
In 1963, Arno Penzias (PEN-zee-us) and Robert Wilson thought that the background noise generated by this phenomenon was just an error resulting from pigeons dropping a "white dielectric substance" within their horn antenna. For 10 points each:
Name this faint signal that originates from the surface of last scattering.
The CMBR is thought to be a remnant of this event, which resulted in the formation of the universe from a single point over 13.7 billion years ago.
The CMBR was experimentally shown to have a black-body power spectrum until the launching of this satellite. The DIRBE telescope attached to this project, and surveyed the infrared regime.
cosmic microwave background radiation [or CMBR; prompt on partial answers or relic radiation]
Big Bang
COBE [or Cosmic Background Explorer] &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
David Phillips proposed a mechanism for how this enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of linkages between NAG and NAM in peptidoglycan. For 10 points each:
Name this enzyme, a glycosyl hydrolase in human saliva that destroys the cell walls of infectious bacteria. It was first discovered in egg whites.
This Scottish physician first discovered lysozyme in 1923. This scientist also shared the 1945 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discovery of penicillin when working with molds.
Fleming's discovery of penicillin was the first discovery of these drugs, which kill or inhibit the growth of bacteria. The beta-lactam type of these drugs includes cephalosporins (cephalo-SPORE-ins) and carbapenems (carba-PEN-ums).
lysozyme [or muramidase; or N-acetylmuramide glycanhydrolase]
Alexander Fleming
antibiotics [prompt on antibacterials] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
This mathematician co-names an asymptotic formula with G. H. Hardy that finds the number of partitions for a positive integer. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematician who, despite little formal training, discovered numerous identities and studied tau and mock theta functions.
Partitioning a mathematical set S into distinct classes forms this kind of binary relation between the classes and S. These relations obey the properties of reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity.
Dedekind cuts construct the real numbers by partitioning this other infinite set, often denoted Q. Numbers in this set can be represented as a fraction of two integers.
Srinivasa Ramanujan [accept Hardy–Ramanujan formula]
equivalence relation
rationals [prompt on quotients] &lt;Damisch, Science - Math&gt;
The oxygen evolving complex of photosystem II contains one atom of calcium and four atoms of this metal. For 10 points each:
Identify this metal that adopts a plus seven oxidation state in an ion with four oxygen atoms.
Manganese is a member of this class of metals found in the d-block on the periodic table, between the alkaline earth metals and the metalloids.
Manganese is at the center of the anti-knock agent MMT, which has a cyclopentadienyl (cyclo-penta-die-ee-nil) ring coordinated to manganese, making it a classic example of the "half" one of this class of compounds. Metallocenes are a subset of these compounds.
manganese [or Mn]
transition metals
half-sandwich compound [prompt on piano stool compound] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
The mnemonic "I GET SMASHED" is often used to remember the causes of this organ's inflammation. For 10 points each:
Name this organ with both digestive and endocrine roles. This organ's islets of Langerhans (EYE-lits of LONG-er-hons) contain alpha cells that produce glucagon and beta cells that produce insulin.
The G in "I GET SMASHED" refers to these hardened accumulations of bile, which can cause a biliary colic attack. The accumulation of these things, which can appear yellow when made of cholesterol, may block the pancreatic duct.
The I in "I GET SMASHED" refers to this kind of disorder, which arises spontaneously. The causes of this kind of disease are not known.
pancreas [accept pancreatitis]
gallstones [accept cholelithiasis]
idiopathic disease &lt;Jose, Science - Biology&gt;
If the difference in this quantity between two atoms is between 0.4 and 1.6, then a bond between them is considered polar covalent. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity that Pauling set on a scale from zero to four. It describes the ability of an atom to attract electrons to itself.
The Allred–Rochow scale calculates electronegativity by taking this quantity over atomic radius squared. This quantity is the pull experienced by an electron from the nucleus after accounting for the shielding effect.
Effective nuclear charge can be approximated using rules named for this scientist, where electrons in s and p orbitals contribute 0.35, and electrons in d and f orbitals contribute 0.85.
electronegativity
effective nuclear charge [or Z-effective, or Z-eff; prompt on Z]
John Clarke Slater [or Slater's rules] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about a problem that vexed the ancient Greeks for centuries, for 10 points each.
This problem involving a certain Platonic solid's volume is impossible to solve with a compass and a straightedge due to the need to draw a line segment of inconstructible length.
Even the ancient Greeks knew that doubling the cube was possible using this construction technique with a Greek name. It makes use of a marked ruler that can rotate around a fixed point on its body.
The author of this treatise denounced use of the neusis, and therefore all of the constructions in this work can be performed with a compass and straightedge. Its first book introduces a set of five postulates.
doubling the cube [accept equivalents like constructing a cube with double the volume of another]
neusis (NOO-siss) construction
Euclid's Elements &lt;Minarik, Science - Math&gt;
In the "brane-world" scenario, closed versions of these constructs propagate through space to give rise to gravitational forces. For 10 points each:
Name these one-dimensional constructs. They name a theory that attempts to reconcile general relativity and the Standard Model.
String theory is a candidate "theory of everything," which could be constructed by unifying gravity with one of these theories that combine the electromagnetic, weak, and strong gauge interactions into one force.
This primary competitor to string theory as a theory of everything proposes that spacetime itself is quantized, forming spin networks, which can evolve over time into spin foams.
strings [accept string theory]
GUT [or Grand Unified Theory]
loop quantum gravity [or LQG; prompt on quantum gravity] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
This organelle is made of a 20S core particle and a 19S regulatory particle, and its two alpha-rings flank its barrel-shaped core. For 10 points each:
Name this organelle that is essential for breaking up unneeded proteins. Proteins with a polyubiquitin (poly-yoo-BIK-wit-in) chain are usually targeted to this complex for degradation.
The "S" in the "19S" and "20S" components of the proteasome refers to this unit of measure, named for a Swedish chemist. It measures the sedimentation rate of particles during centrifugation.
Svedberg units are also commonly used to characterize the subunits of ribosomes. Ribosomes are commonly found on the "rough" type of this organelle, unlike its "smooth" type.
proteasomes
Svedberg units
endoplasmic reticulum [or ER; accept rough ER or smooth ER] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
Linus Pauling chose to append this scientist's name to a radius slightly larger than the covalent radius. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist whose equation of state contains a value symbolized b that accounts for the volume that gas molecules occupy.
The weakest of the van der Waals forces is this intermolecular force between instantaneous dipoles.
Using the van der Waals equation calculates this value to be equal to three-eighths for a gas at its critical point. This quantity is equal to one plus a power series of volume, according to the virial expansion.
Johannes Diderik van der Waals [or van der Waals equation; or van der Waals radius]
London dispersion forces [accept either underlined portion]
compressibility factor [or Z; do not accept or prompt on "compressibility"] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
One of these events that lasted for a second came from SGR 1806-20 and released as much energy as the Sun releases in 150,000 years. For 10 points each:
Name these events in which the strain on the crust of a stellar body causes it to deform, releasing a large amount of energy in the process.
Starquakes have only been observed in this kind of ultra-dense star, which are formed from their namesake uncharged particles. The first discovered pulsar is one of these stars.
Starquakes typically output their energy in this high-energy portion of the EM spectrum, which is observed by NASA's Chandra telescope as well as a "Timing Explorer" named for Bruno Rossi.
starquakes [prompt on quakes]
neutron stars
X-rays &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
This measure can be computed at the site level, signified alpha, or at the community level, signified gamma. For 10 points each:
Name this property of a community that measures the variety of life that is found in an ecosystem. It can be measured with Shannon's index.
These biomes are extremely biodiverse, containing around 40 to 75 percent of all species in the world. The largest of these biomes covers the Amazon Basin and spans over 2 million square miles.
Shannon's index of diversity prioritizes this property of the system over just the number of species found. This property is a measure of how close in numbers the size of each species is.
biodiversity [or biological diversity; or species diversity; prompt on diversity]
tropical rainforests [prompt on forests or jungles]
species evenness &lt;Grames, Science - Biology&gt;
The electrolysis of brine produces this compound along with chlorine and hydrogen gas. For 10 points each:
Identify this compound produced in the chloralkali (klor-AL-kuh-lye) process. Combining this compound with hydrochloric acid produces table salt and water.
Dissolving sodium hydroxide into water produces hydroxide ions, which have this charge. All halides have this charge.
Sodium hydroxide has a high value for this property, defined as affinity for atmospheric water vapor. Therefore, exposing sodium hydroxide solid to air will immediately cause water to begin condensing.
sodium hydroxide [or NaOH; prompt on lye]
negative one [or –1; prompt on negative; do not accept or prompt on "one"]
hygroscopic [or hygroscopy; or deliquescence; do not accept or prompt on "hydroscopic"] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
This regime is defined as when the square of the aperture size divided by the product of the wavelength and the distance from the aperture is much less than one. For 10 points each:
Name this approximation useful in describing parallel and monochromatic light approaching an object set at a large distance away from the image plane.
Diffraction can be modeled by viewing each point on a wavefront as a source of a spherical wave, as stated by this principle named for a Dutch physicist.
Christiaan Huygens (HIGH-guns or HOY-guns) created a telescope with two of these curved objects, which use refraction to focus light to a point.
Fraunhofer diffraction regime [accept far-field diffraction regime]
Huygens–Fresnel principle
lenses [accept convex lenses; accept concave lenses] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
This algorithm is used to minimize a cost function in many machine learning techniques. For 10 points each:
Name this common optimization algorithm that finds the steepest negative slope at each step and proceeds in that direction until reaching a local minimum.
A gradient is calculated using "partial" forms of this operation. In single-variable calculus, this operation, the opposite of integration, can be found using the chain rule.
Gradients are also used in optimizing functions subject to a constraint, along with "multipliers" symbolized lambda that are named for this man. He discovered, and is the namesake of, a formula for calculating the error of a function's Taylor approximation.
gradient descent [prompt on steepest descent; prompt on gradient algorithm]
differentiation [or derivative; accept word forms; accept partial derivative]
Joseph-Louis Lagrange [accept Lagrange multipliers or Lagrange error/remainder formula] &lt;Rosenberg, Science - Math&gt;
The Casparian strip splits this space in half and blocks diffusion of water and solutes through it. For 10 points each:
Name this plant structure, the intercellular space outside the plasma membranes of neighboring cells. This structure names a type of transport contrasted with symplastic transport.
A common example of apoplastic transport involves these channels that connect plant cells, which can contain flattened pieces of endoplasmic reticulum called desmotubules. These channels are analogous to gap junctions in animal cells.
Plasmodesmata cut through these structures of adjacent plant cells. Plants generally have primary and secondary forms of this structure, which is mostly made of cellulose.
apoplast [accept apoplastic transport]
plasmodesmata
cell walls &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
In the Eyring (EYE-ring) equation, this quantity is replaced by Boltzmann's constant times temperature times a constant for dependence on concentration, all divided by Planck's constant. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity that imparts a collision frequency dependence in a certain equation.
The pre-exponential factor multiplies the exponential of negative activation energy divided by RT in this equation, which calculates the temperature dependence of kinetic rate constants.
The Eyring equation originates out of the theory of these entities, which are located at saddle points on a reaction's potential energy surface.
pre-exponential factor [or A; prompt on frequency factor]
Arrhenius equation
transition states [or activated complexes] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Unusually, the Kerr metric allows for a ring-shaped example of these things. For 10 points each:
Name these points at which the strength of gravity diverges to infinity. It is theorized that there might exist "naked" examples of them, which lack an event horizon.
A gravitational singularity is found at the center of these objects, which light cannot escape.
This statement, put forth by Roger Penrose, states that no naked singularities exist, with the exception of the original singularity present prior to the Big Bang.
gravitational singularity [accept naked singularities; do not accept or prompt on "black hole"]
black hole
weak cosmic censorship hypothesis [or cosmic censorship conjecture] &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
Ronald Fisher posited a "runaway" form of this phenomenon, which was first postulated by Darwin in <em>The Descent of Man</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this form of natural selection that involves mate choice and competition for mates.
Runaway sexual selection can lead to the long tails of male peacocks, an example of this type of feature. This term refers to a physical characteristic that serves a decorative function, used to attract mates during courtship displays.
According to the Bright Male hypothesis, ornamentation helps females judge males' resistance to these organisms, such as tapeworms and fleas. These organisms engage in a symbiotic relationship that benefits them but harms their hosts.
sexual selection
biological ornamentation
parasites [or parasitism] &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
The chaperone-mediated version of this process involves the participation of the hsc70 complex. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which cell components and organelles are disassembled and recycled. Yoshinori Ohsumi (OH-sue-me) won a Nobel Prize for the study of this process in yeast.
Autophagy depends on the action of the protein Atg1, which is a serine/threonine (ser-een THREE-oh-neen) type of these enzymes. These enzymes catalyze the transfer of phosphate groups to their substrate.
The kinase PINK1 phosphorylates (foss-FOR-ih-lates) parkin to initiate autophagy of this organelle. Oxidative phosphorylation (foss-FOR-ih-LAY-shun) takes place in the inner membrane of this organelle, the powerhouse of the cell.
autophagy (aw-TOFF-uh-jee) [or autophagocytosis]
serine/threonine kinases [prompt on phosphorylases or phosphotransferases]
mitochondrion [accept mitochondria] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
An AVL chip made by Atmel is often at the center of the products made by this company. For 10 points each:
Name this electronics company that produces microcontrollers that can be programmed and configured to control various devices. It takes its name from an Italian bar.
Arduino's codebase has this property, meaning that anyone can view and redistribute the source code. Mozilla Firefox is a popular web browser that has this property.
Arduino components are most often controlled using a dialect of features taken from this low-level programming language and its object-oriented successor. The malloc (MAL-uck) function is used to allocate memory in this language.
Arduino (AR-doo-EE-no)
open source software [or OSS; accept free and open source or FOSS; accept free libre open source or FLOSS]
C [do not accept or prompt on "C-sharp" or "C-plus-plus" or "Objective-C"] &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
Answer some questions about measurement in quantum mechanics, for 10 points each.
This principle places a bound on the precision to which position and momentum can be measured simultaneously.
The position and momentum wavefunctions are related by this operation. This operation named for a French mathematician is used to convert a function of time into a function of frequency.
Observables are compatible, and thus can be simultaneously measured, when the expectation value of this operator is equal to zero. For operators A and B, it equals AB minus BA.
Heisenberg uncertainty principle [accept either underlined portion]
Fourier transform [do not accept or prompt on "Fourier series," "discrete Fourier transform," or "fast Fourier transform"]
commutator &lt;Mitchell, Science - Physics&gt;
The Nyquist frequency determines the necessary sampling rate for one of these devices. For 10 points each:
Identify this device that produces a continuous time signal from a discrete time signal.
If an ADC does not sample at twice the Nyquist frequency, this phenomenon can occur. This phenomenon is the creation of false signals during data reconstruction.
Signals input into an ADC are often passed through these devices first to ensure that they meet a particular frequency. These devices can be divided into high-pass and low-pass.
analog-to-digital converter [or ADC; prompt on partial answer; do not accept or prompt on "digital-to-analog converter" or "DAC"]
aliasing
filters
This chemical has B and Y types, both which are derivatives of fluorescein (flor-ESS-ee-in), and it is the most common chemical used to stain the cytoplasm. For 10 points each:
Name this dye that generally stains pink. It is commonly used with hematoxylin (hee-ma-TOX-ilin) in the H&amp;E stain for medical diagnosis.
Eosinophils, which get their name for their strong affinity to staining with eosin, are one subtype of these cells. These blood cells are crucial to the immune system by protecting the body from foreign invaders.
This category of white blood cells is named for only staining weakly on the H&amp;E stain. These cells make up the majority of pus that is formed during acute inflammation.
eosin (EE-oh-sin)
white blood cells [or WBCs; or leukocytes; accept granulocytes; accept myeloid cells]
neutrophils [or neutrocytes] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
These equations are "ordinary" when they have only one independent variable. For 10 points each:
Name these equations that include functions and their derivatives. Several theorems exist concerning the existence and uniqueness of their solutions.
A theorem that shows the local existence, but not uniqueness, of solutions to an ODE is named after this Italian mathematician. His nine axioms are used to define the natural numbers.
The stronger Picard–Lindelöf theorem shows existence and uniqueness, but requires that the function possesses a stronger form of this property named after Lipschitz. A function is smooth if all of its derivatives have this property.
differential equations [or ordinary differential equations; or partial differential equations]
Giuseppe Peano [or the Peano axioms]
continuity [accept word forms like continuous] &lt;Minarik, Science - Math&gt;
This body part titles a book by Paul Ehrlich (AIR-lick) and Sandra Kahn, which argues that breathing issues can be caused by shrinkage in this body part in hominids over evolutionary time. For 10 points each:
Name this body part, which is especially large in Paranthropus boisei, lending a nickname to a specimen called OH 5. A high sagittal (SAJ-ih-tul) crest indicates strong muscles used by this body part.
The shrinking of jaws in human ancestors was caused in part by the rise of this behavior, which reduced strain on the jaws. This behavior "made us human," according to Richard Wrangham's Catching Fire.
The occurrence of this kind of phenomenon in remains of human teeth is sharply correlated with consumption of sugars and carbohydrates due to the rise of agriculture.
jaws [prompt on head or face] (OH 5 is called "Nutcracker Man.")
cooking [or cookery; prompt on vaguer answers like food preparation or equivalents]
dental cavities [or dental caries; or tooth decay; prompt on periodontitis] &lt;Kothari, Social Science - Anthropology&gt;
Answer some questions about the term "conjugate" in chemistry, for 10 points each.
According to Huckel's rule, a molecule is aromatic if it is conjugated, cyclic and has this property. Many rings deviate from this property by adopting a puckered conformation.
Hyperconjugation can provide additional stabilization by donating electrons into this type of molecular orbital, denoted with a star. These molecular orbitals are found on the upper half of an MO (M-O) diagram.
Mixing a weak acid and its conjugate base or a weak base and its conjugate acid produces one of these solutions, which resists a change in pH.
planarity [accept descriptive answers suggesting the molecule is flat]
antibonding molecular orbital [prompt on molecular orbital, do not prompt "bonding molecular orbital"]
buffer solutions [or buffer systems] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
A follow-up to this experiment involved a pet hamster named Tisha, who was made an official co-author in a paper written by the scientist who conducted it. For 10 points each:
Name this unusual demonstration conducted by Andre Geim (GUY’m) and Michael Berry, who won an Ig Nobel Prize for their efforts. It relies on the diamagnetic properties of water.
It's easy to levitate a frog inside one of these cylindrical coils of wire.
The main practical use of magnetic levitation is to make super-fast examples of this form of transportation.
levitating a frog [accept descriptive answers indicating making a frog float using magnets; prompt on levitation]
solenoids
trains [accept maglev trains or bullet trains] &lt;Wang, Science - Physics&gt;
A test named for this statistic and Student's <em>t</em>-test are often used to determine if a collection of data points is drawn from some distribution. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is calculated by taking a data point, subtracting the mean, and dividing the result by the standard deviation.
The central limit theorem implies that a distribution of z-scores will converge to this other distribution. This bell-shaped distribution has a strong central peak.
In a normal distribution, this decimal is the percentage of values that lie within three standard deviations from the mean. It is the third number in a "rule" for finding those percentages, following 68 and 95.
z-score [or standard score; accept but DO NOT REVEAL normal score]
normal distribution [or Gaussian distribution]
99.7 [or the 68–95–99.7 rule] &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
The relativistic form of this effect is given by a factor of square root of one plus beta over one minus beta. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which relative motion between the observer and the source changes the measured frequency of a wave.
When a laser aimed at a collection of atoms is tuned slightly below the transition frequency, the Doppler effect will cause this process to occur. This process occurs when a gas expands adiabatically.
Doppler cooling is frequently combined with a "slower" named for this effect, which produces a difference in energy levels equal to the product of the Bohr magneton, the g-factor, the z-component of total angular momentum, and the external B-field.
Doppler effect
cooling [accept Doppler cooling or adiabatic cooling; accept answers indicating a decrease in temperature]
Zeeman effect &lt;Mitchell, Science - Physics&gt;
In an interview, this scientist mentioned that the "most immediate benefit" from his Nobel Prize-winning work is "doing experiments that teach us things." For 10 points each:
Name this scientist at Stanford University. He shared that Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2006 with Craig Mello for his work on RNA interference.
The RNA interference pathway begins with one of these enzymes named Dicer. These enzymes cleave the backbone of DNA or RNA from the middle of the nucleotide chain, unlike exonucleases.
Dicer can cleave RNA to form a type of RNA with this many strands. The most common biological conformation of DNA is a helix made of this number of strands.
Andrew Zachary Fire
endonucleases [or endoribonucleases; do not accept or prompt on "exonuclease"]
two [or 2; accept double-stranded] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
The Ras superfamily is a subset of these proteins, and these proteins can be activated by GAP proteins. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins, which hydrolyze a gamma phosphate from their substrate. The G-alpha subunit of a G protein is an example of the "small" type of these proteins.
A GTPase known as Ran works with importins and exportins to control transport into and out of this organelle. During prophase, a Ran gradient helps chromosomes to form the spindle apparatus in this organelle.
The large GTPase dynamin is important for this process in eukaryotic cells. The receptor-mediated form of this process involves budding of the plasma membrane to form clathrin-coated vesicles.
GTPases (G-T-P-aces)
cell nucleus [or nuclei]
endocytosis [accept phagocytosis; accept pinocytosis] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
In 2009, Sir Anthony Hoare claimed that his invention of this concept was a "billion dollar mistake" that has "led to innumerable errors, vulnerabilities, and system crashes." For 10 points each:
Name this kind of reference that does not refer to any valid data, but is not necessarily uninitialized. Dereferencing one of these things often leads to segmentation faults.
In some languages, dereferencing a null pointer will lead to one of these things being thrown. In general, code that can produce these things is often surrounded by "try–catch" blocks.
To dereference a pointer in many languages, this symbol is used. In the language BASIC, this symbol is used to multiply two numbers.
null pointers [or null references]
exceptions [accept null pointer exception or NullPointerException; prompt on error]
asterisk [or star] &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
This scientist names a "ripening" process where large precipitates in a colloid draw material from smaller precipitates. For 10 points each:
Identify this scientist who developed a process that oxidizes the product of the Haber process.
The Ostwald process oxidizes ammonia to produce this strong mineral acid. Aqua regia is comprised of hydrochloric acid and this acid with formula HNO3 (H-N-O-three).
A mixture of red fuming nitric acid and nitrogen tetroxide is an example of a hypergolic one of these mixtures, since they spontaneously react with each other without a source of ignition. The first one of these systems using only liquids had gasoline as the fuel and liquid oxygen as the oxidizer.
Wilhelm Ostwald [or Ostwald process]
nitric acid [prompt on HNO3]
liquid-propellant [prompt on rocket fuel] (The propellant described is Goddard’s first liquid-propelled rocket.) &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
One book on this subject was allegedly composed over a year in prison and entirely typed up by the author's student, leading to the quip that it contained "not a word of Landau and not a thought of Lifshitz." For 10 points each:
Name this subject, whose textbooks include one based on the lectures of Richard Feynman.
Many example problems in physics textbooks feature characters with these two names. The use of these names first arose in cryptography since names are easier to follow than the letters A and B.
This former Reed College professor's Introduction to Electrodynamics and Introduction to Quantum Mechanics are considered quintessential undergraduate physics textbooks. His quantum mechanics textbook has a picture of a cat on the cover.
physics [prompt on science]
Alice AND Bob
David Jeffrey Griffiths &lt;Wang, Science - Physics&gt;
Birutė (bee-roo-TAY) Galdikas performed pioneering studies on these animals, of which a third species, Tapanuli, was discovered in 2017. For 10 points each:
Name these great apes that are classified in the genus Pongo. The other two species of these animals are the Bornean and Sumatran ones.
All three orangutan species have this designation by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. This designation is more severe than endangered species but less severe than "extinct in the wild."
Orangutans belong to this order of mammals, characterized by such features as opposable thumbs and stereoscopic vision. This order includes tarsiers (TAR-seers), gibbons, and hominids.
orangutans
critically endangered [prompt on endangered]
Primates &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
With a subscript 0, this letter denotes the basic reproductive number of a disease, the expected number of people that a single diseased person infects when the disease is rare. For 10 points each:
Name this letter that represents the rate of population growth. It names a type of selection contrasted with K-selection.
R-nought can be used to calculate the threshold proportion of the population that needs to be vaccinated to cause this effect. In this effect, the fact that most individuals in a population are immune to a disease protects the remaining individuals.
The critical threshold proportion of the population needed to achieve herd immunity is equal to one minus R-nought raised to this power.
r [accept R0 or R-nought or R-zero]
herd immunity
negative one [or –1; accept equivalents such as or one over r-nought, or reciprocal of r-nought, or inverse of r-nought] &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
In the infinite square well model, this quantity equals zero inside of the well and is infinite at the barrier. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity in electromagnetism. It equals the voltage at a given point times the charge at that point.
In this effect, a quantum particle stuck in a potential well has a non-zero probability of spontaneously escaping the well.
For a particle tunneling out of a finite square well, the particle's wavefunction takes on this mathematical form outside the well.
electric potential energy [prompt on energy]
quantum tunneling
exponential decay [or decreasing exponential or negative exponential; or e to the negative x; accept evanescent wave; prompt on exponential or e to the x; prompt on decay; do not accept or prompt on "wave"] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
Answer the following about very large numbers, for 10 points each.
This number, which is 10 to the 100th power, is a large number. It is roughly equivalent to 70 factorial, and its name was coined by Edward Kasner's young nephew.
Large numbers can be expressed in Knuth notation, which uses these symbols to compactly signify them.
Knuth up-arrow notation is often used to express the output of this function, which takes in pairs of values, and outputs large numbers for relatively small inputs. Computer scientists often study this function because it is recursive, but not primitive recursive.
googol
up arrows [prompt on arrows; prompt on carets]
Ackermann function &lt;Jose, Science - Math&gt;
This compound can cleave alkenes to produce either ketones or aldehydes depending on the reaction conditions. For 10 points each:
Identify this compound whose concentration in the atmosphere is measured in Dobson units.
These compounds, used as refrigerants, contribute to depletion of ozone in the atmosphere by producing radicals upon being hit by UV rays. They are partly named for their incorporation of two halogens.
Via the ozonolysis reaction, rubber can be degraded in a process given this name. A different process by this name produces naphtha and LPG from high-molecular-weight alkanes with a zeolite catalyst.
ozone [or O3; do not accept or prompt on "oxygen" or "oxygen gas"]
CFCs [or chlorofluorocarbonss; or Freon]
fluid catalytic cracking [or ozone cracking] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Schmitt triggers are usually constructed from these circuit elements. For 10 points each:
Name these devices which take as input the difference between two voltages and output a voltage much greater than the inputs, thus amplifying a signal. An ideal one of these devices has infinite open-loop gain.
Like other integrated circuits, op-amps are manufactured on a single piece of one of these materials, which have conductivities between those of insulators and conductors.
In p-type semiconductors, the majority of charge carriers are these positively charged quasiparticles.
operational amplifiers [or op-amps; prompt on "differential amplifier"]
semiconductors
electron holes &lt;Mitchell, Science - Physics&gt;
Engineers often used the USCS, which is a "unified" way of classifying this material. For 10 points each:
Name this substance, a mixture of organic material and dirt that is often a source of nutrients for plants.
On the USCS scale, a letter of g indicates that a soil consists of these pieces of rock. On the Krumbein phi scale, the grain size of these rocks is larger than sand, but smaller than that of boulders and cobbles.
A letter of h on the USCS scale indicates that a soil has this property. Materials with this property have their shape permanently altered after a deformation.
soil
gravel
plasticity [or plastic deformation] &lt;Jose, Science - Earth Science&gt;
These gastropods, which lack shells as an adult, are divided into dorids and aeolids (EE-uh-lids). For 10 points each:
Name this group of gastropods whose name means "naked gills." Known for their very diverse coloration, these animals include species such as the blue dragon and the Spanish dancer.
Nudibranchs, and other gastropods, have this chitinous (KITE-in-us) ribbon of teeth used for scraping up food. This structure is supported by a cartilaginous (kar-til-LADGE-in-us) mass known as an odontophore.
A radula is a characteristic feature of most animals in this largest marine phylum. Malacology is the study of this phylum, which includes gastropods, cephalopods, and bivalves.
nudibranchs (NOO-dih-branks) [or Nudibranchia]
radula [or radulae; or radulas]
mollusks [or Mollusca] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
An ion changing oxidation number from plus 2 to plus 1 during a reaction has undergone this process. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of reaction that results in a gain of electrons. It is paired with oxidation in redox reactions.
When writing out equations in redox chemistry, these two reactions explicitly show electrons with one specific species, one for reduction and one for oxidation. Combining them forms the net ionic equation.
In many catalytic cycles, a two-electron oxidation of a transition metal occurs when two ligands are attached. Later on, the metal is reduced to its original oxidation state when two ligands form their own molecule and leave. Name either of those reaction steps.
reduction [or reduction-oxidation]
half-reactions
oxidative addition or reductive elimination [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
A specific form of this technique named for Boris Delaunay (duh-loh-NAY) ensures that no individual point in a set of discrete points is contained in a circumcircle. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which a vertex is picked, and lines are connected to every nonadjacent vertex, subdividing the entire surface into 2-simplexes.
The Delaunay triangulation is the dual graph of one of these diagrams, which are created by partitioning a plane based on its seed points.
After triangulation is performed, the remaining side lengths of the triangle are calculated using a law named for this trigonometric function, whose reciprocal is the cosecant.
triangulation [accept Delaunay triangulation; prompt on tessellation]
Voronoi diagrams [or Voronoi tessellations; or Voronoi decompositions]
sine [or sin] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Math&gt;
Answer the following about the thermodynamic square, for 10 points each.
The thermodynamic square was introduced by this German scientist, who won a Nobel Prize for his interpretation of the wavefunction as a probability amplitude.
The four corners of the square are entropy, pressure, temperature, and this quantity. In Boyle's law, this quantity is multiplied on both sides by pressure.
Variables on two adjacent corners are these kinds of variables for the potential in between, since knowing the value for the potential and these variables allows one to quickly calculate the other two thermodynamic variables. For example, pressure and temperature are these variables for Gibbs free energy.
Max Born [accept Born interpretation]
volume [prompt on V]
natural variables &lt;Prieto, Science - Physics&gt;
The Nigerian saxophonist Femi Kuti used this technique to sustain an E-flat for over 45 minutes. For 10 points each:
Name this type of breathing used to continuously play a musical instrument. It involves inhaling air through the nose while exhaling through the mouth.
Circular breathing is used to continuously play this musical instrument, referred to by the Warray people as a bambu. This Australian instrument is placed on the ground before the player blows into it.
Pungi players often use circular breathing while engaging in this activity. People who made their living in this activity staged a protest at the Charkhi Dadri Temple after being targeted by a 1972 Indian Wildlife Protection Act.
circular breathing
didgeridoo [or didjeridu; or yidaki; or mandapul; prompt on dronepipe]
snake charming [or word forms; or cobra charming; prompt on snake handling or snake dancing] &lt;Jose, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
This algorithm underlies the OpenSSL library, which allows securely transmitting data. For 10 points each:
Name this encryption algorithm whose name is an abbreviation for its three inventors. The Coppersmith method can be used in attempts to attack this algorithm.
RSA relies on the difficulty of being able to quickly compute these kinds of factors. These kinds of numbers have no factors other than one and themselves.
The encryption function in RSA is this general kind of function, which is easy to compute in one direction, but nearly impossible to invert. This kind of function is also used in the Diffie–Hellman key exchange.
RSA algorithm [or Rivest–Shamir–Adleman algorithm]
prime numbers
trapdoor functions [accept one-way functions; anti-prompt on cryptographic hash functions] &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
These structures, which can come in stacked or unstacked types, are broken down by a namesake resolvase. For 10 points each:
Name these cross-shaped junctions of DNA. Base pairs are exchanged during branch migration in these structures.
Holliday junctions are important to genetic recombination, which commonly happens during this process. In this process, which occurs during prophase I (one), homologous (huh-MAH-luh-guss) chromosomes that have paired up to form a synapsis exchange genetic information.
Crossing-over occurs during prophase I, the first stage of this process. In this process, which is the first stage of oogenesis (OH-oh-genesis) and spermatogenesis, a diploid somatic cell divides to form four haploid gametes.
Holliday junctions
chromosomal crossing over [or chromosomal crossover]
meiosis [do not accept "mitosis"] &lt;Kothari, Science - Biology&gt;
These substances often form during liquid–liquid extractions, but can be removed by adding lots of sodium chloride. For 10 points each:
Identify these substances that contain a dispersed phase and a continuous phase, which include emulsions and sols.
Particles of this element form a sol used to study thiol-based self-assembled monolayers. This metal commonly has an oxidation number of plus 1 or plus 3.
The continuous phase of a suspension can be identified with a rule named for this scientist. He also names the temperature at which the vapor pressure for both components of an azeotrope (AY-zee-oh-trope) are equal, making it impossible to separate by distillation.
colloids [prompt on suspensions]
gold [or Au]
Wilder Dwight Bancroft [or Bancroft rule; or Bancroft temperature; or Bancroft point] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Eye folds and microcephaly are among signs of this syndrome, which is also known as 5p-minus syndrome due to a deletion on chromosome 5. For 10 points each:
Name this genetic disorder. Its French name refers to the high-pitched cry often heard from affected children.
Cri du chat syndrome causes the absence of TERT, which is the catalytic subunit of this enzyme. This enzyme adds a repeat sequence to the 3-prime end of eukaryotic chromosomes to prevent their shortening.
The subunit TERT in telomerase is this type of enzyme. This type of enzyme, which is found in retroviruses and retrotransposons, produces complementary DNA from RNA.
Cri du chat (KREE doo SHAH) syndrome
telomerase [or terminal transferase]
reverse transcriptase [do not accept or prompt on "transcriptase"] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
This scientist discovered that one body gravitationally bound to a larger body will orbit in an ellipse whose radius vector sweeps out equal areas in equal times. For 10 points each:
Name this astronomer who developed three laws of planetary motion.
Kepler's third law relates these two quantities for an orbiting body.
Kepler also developed an equation relating the "mean" and "eccentric" forms of these quantities for an elliptic orbit. These quantities define the angular position of a body in an orbit.
Johannes Kepler
the period AND the semi-major axis [prompt on answers indicating half of the major axis]
anomalies [accept mean anomaly or eccentric anomaly] &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
Answer the following about politicians who dabbled in mathematics, for 10 points each:
This European leader is often credited with originating the theorem that, given three equilateral triangles constructed on the sides of another triangle, their midpoints form another equilateral triangle.
US President James Garfield published a proof of this result using a trapezoid. This theorem relates the length of a right triangle's hypotenuse to that of its legs.
While best known as a mathematician, Émile Borel also served in the French legislature. Borel made an early statement of this theorem, which claims that the namesake group of animals will eventually produce the complete works of Shakespeare.
Napoleon I Bonaparte [accept Napoleon's theorem]
Pythagorean theorem [or Pythagoras' theorem]
infinite monkey theorem [accept descriptive answers involving an infinite amount of monkeys] &lt;Minarik, Science - Math&gt;
Answer the following about waves, for 10 points each:
Waves are characterized by phase and by this quantity denoted A. It gives the magnitude of the oscillation.
Light is an example of this type of wave, with oscillations perpendicular to the direction of energy transfer.
Suppose (read slowly) x is position, t is time, k is the wavenumber, and omega is the angular frequency. The equation describing a transverse wave evolving forward in the positive x and positive t directions contains the sine of what function of those four variables?
amplitude
transverse wave
kx minus omega t [accept answers using the word "times" such as k times x minus omega times t; accept answers that invert the order of the two terms but have a minus sign in front of exactly one of them, such as omega t minus kx or minus omega t plus kx; accept answers that invert the order of multiplication, such as xk minus t omega] &lt;Busse, Science - Physics&gt;
The first one of these regions between the Earth and the Sun is occupied by the SOHO explorer. For 10 points each:
Name these regions between two gravitational bodies, where the influence of gravity from each body cancels out each other body's gravitational pull. Three of them are always collinear.
Lagrange points appear as part of the solution to this difficult problem, which has only been solved in the "restricted" case. The Earth–Sun–Moon system is an instance of this problem.
The L4 and L5 Lagrange points accumulate a variety of this substance in structures named for Polish astronomer Kazimierz Kordylewski (ka-ZHEEM-yesh kor-dill-EF-skee). The gegenschein (GAY-gun-shine) is caused by this substance interacting with starlight.
Lagrange points [or Lagrangian points or L-points or libration points]
three-body problem [prompt on n-body problem]
interplanetary dust [or cosmic dust; prompt on Kordylewski clouds] &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
This substance can be modeled implicitly using the accessible surface area of a molecule. For 10 points each:
Identify these substances that the polarizable continuum model seeks to simulate in computational chemistry. Organic reactions can sometimes be run without these substances to save money or to be more environmentally friendly.
Water is often called the universal solvent because it is strong in this property, where molecules have a net dipole moment. The "like dissolves like" principle explains why ionic salts, strong in this property, dissolve easily in water.
This compound, which is similar to chloroform but has one fewer chlorine atom, is often used as a solvent in reactions.
solvents [or implicit solvent model]
polarity [do not accept "polarizability" or "nonpolar"]
dichloromethane [or methylene chloride; or methylene dichloride; or CH2Cl2; or DCM] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about discoveries at Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest. For 10 points each:
Studies at Hubbard Brook were the first to establish whole-ecosystem nutrient budgets for one of these systems, which includes the area of land where water drains into a single outlet.
Part of developing a nutrient budget involved measuring rates of this process, which is often done with mesh bags. Saprotrophic fungi accelerate this process, which is inhibited by anoxia in peat bogs.
Long-term data from Hubbard Brook proved that sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions could cause this phenomenon, which can deplete calcium in the soil and weather metal and stone structures.
watersheds [or catchment areas; prompt on drainage basins]
organic matter decomposition [or organic matter decay]
acid rain [prompt on rain] &lt;Kothari, Science - Earth Science&gt;
Gottfried Leibniz wrote a dissertation on this field of mathematics, which has "enumerative" and "existential" branches. For 10 points each:
Name this branch of discrete math, primarily concerned with counting and finite structures. Problems in this field often use the binomial coefficients.
Many problems from this general gambling card game, such as the number of ways to be dealt a royal flush, can be modeled using combinatorics.
If you want to determine the number of ways to partition your poker chips, you can model them using the diagrams named for this British mathematician. When those diagrams are marked with numbers, they become his namesake "tableaux" (tab-LOH), which are used in representation theory.
combinatorics
poker [accept more specific forms of poker]
Alfred Young [accept Young diagrams or Young tableaux] &lt;Minarik, Science - Math&gt;
These structures can be classified into prototunicate (PROTO-tunic-it) and bitunicate (BI-tunic-it) based on the structure of their walls. For 10 points each:
Name these sac-like reproductive structures that usually contain eight spores named after them. A fruiting body can contain these structures or basidia.
Members of Ascomycota, a division of this kingdom, have asci. Other divisions of this kingdom include Basidiomycota (buh-SID-ee-oh-my-KO-ta) and Zygomycota, which include mushrooms and molds, respectively.
A particularly famous member of Ascomycota is this species of red bread mold. Experiments with this model organism led Beadle and Tatum to propose the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis.
ascus [or asci]
fungi [or fungus]
Neurospora crassa [prompt on Neurospora] &lt;Grames, Science - Biology&gt;
Elmer A. Sperry incorporated one of these devices in the first airplane autopilot system. For 10 points each:
Name these devices, common examples of which consist of a large rotor suspended inside of three gimbals.
The gyroscope was invented by this French physicist, who installed one of his namesake pendulums inside the dome of the Paris Panthéon. This man's pendulums can show the Earth's rotation.
Gravity Probe B used four gyroscopes to test general relativity's predictions of the geodetic and frame-dragging effects, which are both forms of this phenomenon.
gyroscope [or mechanical gyroscope]
Jean Foucault (foo-KOH) [or Jean-Bernard-Léon Foucault]
precession [accept de Sitter precession or Lense–Thirring precession] &lt;Bentley, Science - Physics&gt;
A hyphal network known as the Hartig net is formed in the "ecto" type of these relationships, which are not exhibited by <em>Arabidopsis thaliana</em> and other members of the mustard family. For 10 points each:
Name these mutualisms between plants and fungi. Orchids need to have these mutualisms in order to germinate.
In mycorrhizae, fungi are symbiotic with this part of the plant that originates from the radicle. These plant organs absorb nutrients and anchor a plant in the soil.
In this type of mycorrhizae, the fungi send hyphae into the cortical cells of roots, forming namesake branch-like structures. This most common type of mycorrhizae is formed by fungi of the division Glomeromycota (glomero-my-KOH-tah).
mycorrhizae (my-KOR-ih-zay) [or mycorrhizas]
roots
arbuscular mycorrhizae [accept arbuscules; prompt on endomycorrhizae] &lt;Grames, Science - Biology&gt;
An equation in this subfield of physics uses a constant that equals one over the quantity 4 pi times the vacuum permittivity. For 10 points each:
Name this subfield that studies charged objects at rest, often using Coulomb's law.
The triboelectric effect, studied in electrostatics, deals with how this force can impart charge onto objects. Its "kinetic" type opposes the direction of motion and occurs when two objects rub together.
This equation from electrostatics sets the Laplacian (la-PLAHSS-ee-in) of the electric potential equal to negative charge density divided by permittivity.
electrostatics
frictional force
Poisson's equation &lt;Minarik, Science - Physics&gt;
<em>Note to moderator: Do not reveal answerline instructions for part one.</em> MTBE (M-T-B-E), which contains this functional group, is added to gasoline to prevent engine knocking. For 10 points each:
Name this functional group that undergoes the autoxidation (awt-oxidation) reaction to form explosive peroxides, making them dangerous to leave open to air for long periods of time.
Ethers can be prepared by deprotonating (dee-PRO-tuh-NATE-ing) one of these compounds and adding an alkyl halide. They contain hydroxyl (hi-DROX-ill) groups, and the simplest one is methanol.
This functional group is a cyclic ether with three atoms: two carbon and one oxygen. Some chemistry lab benchtops are made of a resin consisting of a very tough polymer of this functional group.
ethers [do not prompt on "epoxides"]
alcohols
epoxides &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Fermat names a theorem stating that if an odd prime number <em>p</em> equals 1 modulo 4, then <em>p</em> equals the sum of two of these types of numbers. For 10 points each:
Name these numbers, which are also the sums of two consecutive triangular numbers. All of these numbers equal the product of some integer with itself.
The "ordinary least squares" form of this statistical technique minimizes the sums of squared residuals to model the relationship between two quantitative variables.
Leonhard Euler solved this problem, named for a Swiss city, that asked for an exact sum of one over n-squared from one to infinity. Its solution is pi squared divided by 6.
squares [or squared integers; or perfect squares]
linear regression [or OLS regression; prompt on OLS; prompt on fitting or line of best fit]
Basel problem &lt;Damisch, Science - Math&gt;
The documentary "The Scientist" traces the life of Raphael Mechoulam (meh-shoo-LOM), who performed the first total synthesis of this compound. For 10 points each:
Name this molecule that competes with the neurotransmitter anandamide to activate the CB1 and CB2 receptors in the brain.
THC is the principal psychoactive component of this drug. Although it is illegal in most places in the world, Washington became the first US state to legalize this drug in 2012.
THC is the primary active ingredient in nabiximols (na-BIX-ih-malls), drugs that specifically treat this autoimmune disease. This disease causes symptoms such as neuropathic pain and spasticity by destroying the myelin sheath.
THC [or tetrahydrocannabinol]
cannabis [or pot; or weed; or marijuana; or hashish; or dope]
multiple sclerosis [accept MS] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
The Canadian company D-Wave Systems purports to sell these devices. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices that use qubits (Q-bits) to implement algorithms. One of these devices running Shor's algorithm could break classical encryption.
Theoretically, all quantum computers can be simulated as a modified form of one of these devices, which consist of a "head" that manipulates symbols on an infinite tape. Hopcroft and Ullman gave a definition of them as a specific 7-tuple.
In 2017, this company released the language Q# (Q-sharp), which allows for the simulation of quantum algorithms. This company created the web server IIS (eye-eye-S) and the .NET (dot-net) framework.
quantum computers [prompt on computers]
Turing machines
Microsoft &lt;Jose, Science - Computer Science&gt;
The carbocation intermediate in SN1 reactions has this molecular geometry before reacquiring a tetrahedral geometry. For 10 points each:
Identify this molecular geometry present in boron halides but not aluminum halides, because boron is unable to support an additional lone pair due to an octet rule exception.
BF3 is predicted to have trigonal planar geometry by this theory, which counts the number of ligands and lone pairs surrounding a central atom.
Two answers required. Molecules with a steric number of five can have four possible molecular geometries: trigonal bipyramidal, see-saw, and these two geometries. It may help to know that they contain two and three lone pairs, respectively.
trigonal planar [prompt on partial answer]
VSEPR (vesper) theory [or valence shell electron pair repulsion theory; prompt on partial answer]
T-shaped AND linear molecular geometries [accept answers in either order; do not accept or prompt on incomplete answers] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Deposits of this mineral in tendons can result in calcific tendinitis, which can lead to the development of a frozen shoulder. For 10 points each:
Name this mineral that contains calcium, phosphate groups, and hydroxyl groups. This mineral is the primary component of dentin and dental enamel.
Hydroxyapatite is the major constituent of this type of tissue, which comprises the skeletal system. Osteoblasts and osteoclasts are responsible for the formation and resorption of this tissue.
Type I collagen comprises nearly 90 percent of a part of the bone named for this word, which surrounds individual bone cells. This word also refers to the space within the inner membrane of a mitochondrion.
hydroxyapatite [or hydroxylapatite; prompt on bone mineral; prompt on apatite]
human bone tissue [or osseous tissue]
bone (extracellular) matrix [or mitochondrial matrix] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
Graphing the heat capacity of this substance versus temperature produces a discontinuity at the lambda point. For 10 points each:
Name this substance, which, at atmospheric pressure, vaporizes at around 4 kelvin.
Sufficiently cold liquid helium can exhibit this property, in which a fluid loses all viscosity.
In superfluid helium, this process can occur via wavelike motion whose resemblance to longitudinal pressure waves led to its name of "second sound." A coefficient named for this phenomenon is sometimes called the film coefficient.
liquid helium [prompt on helium; do not accept or prompt on "superfluid helium"]
superfluids [accept superfluidity]
heat transfer [accept descriptive equivalents indicating that heat is moving down a temperature gradient from one point to another; anti-prompt on convection by asking "can you be less specific?"; do not accept or prompt on "conduction" or "radiation"] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
Answer some questions about Rochelle salt, for 10 points each.
Rochelle salt is a double salt containing tartrate and cations (CAT-ions) of these two elements, an alloy of which can be used as a coolant in fast neutron reactors.
Rochelle salt is a component of Fehling's (FELL-ing’s) reagent, which will turn from blue to this color in the presence of aldehydes. Dipping litmus paper into an acidic solution turns it into a dark shade of this color.
Pierre and Jacques Curie discovered that this phenomenon was as strong in Rochelle salt as it was in quartz. They used the latter to construct an electrometer by taking advantage of this phenomenon.
sodium AND potassium [or Na AND K; or NaK; accept answers in either order; do not accept or prompt on incomplete answers]
red [accept any shade of red like crimson; do not accept "purple" or "orange"]
piezoelectricity [or word forms] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about the Bernoulli equation, for 10 points each:
The Bernoulli equation implies that if potential energy is held constant, an increase in this other value will result in decreased flow velocity.
The Bernoulli equation applies when the fluid is in this idealized, layered flow regime contrasted with turbulent flow.
While Bernoulli's equation ignores viscous effects, this equation for modeling laminar flow for incompressible fluids inside a cylindrical pipe takes viscosity into account.
pressure
laminar flow
Hagen–Poiseuille (pwah-ZUH-ee) equation [or Hagen–Poiseuille law] &lt;Raje, Science - Physics&gt;
This formula does not account for metallicity. For 10 points each:
Name this relation stating that the logarithm of one of the namesake quantities is linearly proportional to the logarithm of the other namesake quantity. It was first given by Henrietta Swan Leavitt (LEV-it) after she examined a type of variable star.
The period–luminosity relation was first derived by examining this kind of radially-pulsating variable star, which is named for the constellation in which they were first discovered.
This scientist used the period–luminosity relation to calibrate the cosmic distance ladder. His namesake "tuning fork diagram" classifies galaxies based on their shape.
period–luminosity relation [accept in either order]
Cepheids [or Cepheid variable stars]
Edwin Hubble [accept Hubble's tuning fork diagram] &lt;Jose, Science - Astronomy&gt;
The production of this molecule involves the polymerization of eight UDP-glucose molecules and their final reaction with a glycosyl-transferase. For 10 points each:
Name this branched polysaccharide. This molecule is the main storage form of glucose in the human body.
Glycogen is an example of the complex type of these macromolecules, which generally have a 2-to-1 ratio of hydrogens to oxygens. These macromolecules include monosaccharides and polysaccharides.
In this biochemical cycle, glycogen in the muscles is broken down into glucose and used for fermentation, and the lactate produced is generated back to glucose in the liver. This cycle was discovered by a pair of Czech-American scientists.
glycogen
carbohydrates [or sugars; prompt on saccharides]
Cori cycle [prompt on lactic acid cycle] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
These particles were measured in the Frisch–Smith and Rossi–Hall experiments. For 10 points each:
Name these particles whose long mean lifetime of around 2.2 microseconds makes them useful for testing time dilation.
Time dilation occurs in this theory that unifies space and time and maintains the constancy of the speed of light.
Special relativity explains this phenomenon central to the "pole in a barn" paradox, in which objects moving close to the speed of light appear to be shorter.
muons [or mu mesons]
special relativity [or SR; prompt on relativity]
length contraction [or Lorentz contraction; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Kalathiveetil, Science - Physics&gt;
You have put on a pair of safety glasses and a lab coat to perform an experiment in a chemistry lab. For 10 points each:
Since you are working with volatile chemicals, you are working in one of these spaces with constant ventilation and a closeable sash. If the airflow is too low, alarms will go off.
Your experiment requires a vacuum, so you connect tubing to the outlet on the side of the hood. The outlet for vacuum is typically this color, which represents chemical reactivity on the NFPA diamond.
Your experiment also requires very cold temperatures, so you prepare a liquid nitrogen bath in one of these flasks that contains two walls with a vacuum in between, named for the scientist that invented it.
fume hood [or fumehood]
yellow [do not accept or prompt on "orange"]
Dewar (DEW-er) flask [prompt on vacuum flask; prompt on Thermos] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
Answer some questions about mass spectrometry, for 10 points each.
Molecules analyzed with mass spec often have multiple peaks separated by only one integer because of these atoms, which have different numbers of neutrons. For chlorine, these atoms include chlorine-35 and chlorine-37.
Prior to entering the analyzer, the sample undergoes this process, which is divided into "soft" and "hard" methods for mass spec. MALDI (MALL-dee) induces this process using lasers with minimal sample fragmentation.
This operation is applied to the signal generated in ion cyclotron resonance MS. An NMR spectrum with peaks at distinct frequencies is produced from a free induction decay via this operation.
isotopes
ionization [or soft ionization; or hard ionization; or matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization; prompt on vaporization]
forward Fourier transform [prompt on FT; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Prieto, Science - Chemistry&gt;
This phenomenon's namesake drip is a source of moisture that accumulates on the surfaces of leaves and grass. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of low-hanging cloud that often obscures human vision. When it is particularly thick, it is likened to "pea soup."
Fog named after this phenomenon is formed as a result of hot air moving horizontally above cooler air, causing the cooler air to decrease in temperature. In general, this term refers to the process of movement in a fluid via bulk motion.
In advective fog, the air reaches this temperature point, causing the air to become saturated with its own water vapor. If it is below zero, this point is called the frost point.
fog
advection [accept advection fog; accept advects or advective or other word forms]
dew point &lt;Jose, Science - Earth Science&gt;
The biosynthesis of this molecule requires the action of ACC synthase and ACC oxidase, which are both components of the Yang cycle. For 10 points each:
Name this plant hormone that can trigger a "triple response" in seedlings and plays an important role in stimulating fruit ripening. This alkene was originally known as olefiant gas upon discovery.
A precursor of ethylene is the S-adenosyl form of this amino acid. This amino acid, which is found in an N-formyl version in bacteria, is encoded by the start codon AUG.
Ethylene works along with these other plant hormones to control senescence (suh-NESS-ence). These hormones, which are produced by the octadecanoid (OK-ta-DEK-uh-noid) pathway, are named for a certain type of flower.
ethylene [or ethene]
methionine [prompt on M or Met]
jasmonates [or jasmonic acid; or methyl jasmonates] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
Mutations in this structure can affect its binding affinity with TBP and TBP-associated factors. For 10 points each:
Name this sequence of DNA found in the promoter region of genes in eukaryotic cells. It is named for the two repeating base pairs that make up its consensus sequence.
The TATA box recruits the protein TFIID (T-F-two-D), which is one of the "general" types of these proteins. These proteins regulate the conversion of DNA to mRNA by RNA polymerase.
TFIID is just one part of this multiprotein complex that includes around 70 proteins such as the mediator protein and other general transcription factors. This complex helps to position RNA polymerase II before it can begin transcription.
TATA box
transcription factors [or TFs]
preinitiation complex [or PIC] &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
This term first appeared in the paper <em>On Physical Lines of Force</em> and was later used to derive the electromagnetic wave equation. For 10 points each:
Name this term that James Maxwell added to Ampère's law to account for how time-varying electric fields in the absence of a current still generate magnetic fields.
Maxwell envisioned the displacement current as a physical current caused by this property, which shares its name with another property that comes in "linear" and "circular" types and describes the orientation of a light wave.
The net charge due to polarization at the surface of a material is described by this adjective. This kind of charge is microscopically localized, preventing it from moving anywhere within the material.
displacement current density [prompt on J; do not accept or prompt on "current"]
polarization density [prompt on p]
bound charge &lt;Rangaraju, Science - Physics&gt;
Millions of vaccines that treat this disease were found to have been contaminated with SV40 virus in the 1960s. For 10 points each:
Name this viral disease that can cause paralysis. A global eradication program of this disease is underway, but it is still endemic in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The first effective vaccine against polio was developed by this scientist at the University of Pittsburgh, although his treatment was later supplanted by Albert Sabin's oral polio vaccine.
The polio virus is a member of this genus. This genus of positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses, named for its members' prevalence in the intestine, also includes the coxsackie (cook-SACK-ee) and echo viruses.
polio [or poliomyelitis]
Jonas Salk
enteroviruses &lt;Ramaswami, Science - Biology&gt;
Name these things you might find in a cave, for 10 points each.
These speleothems protrude from the ground and may create a column if they fuse with their counterparts that hang from a cave ceiling.
"Rafts" of this mineral often form on top of subterranean lakes in limestone caves. This carbonate is also the main constituent of stalagmites and stalactites.
Very fine crystals comprise this gooey, white substance in caves. It is formed by the precipitation of dripwater and is believed to be created with the help of bacteria.
stalagmites
calcite
moonmilk [or mondmilch] &lt;Jose&gt;
Flow batteries composed of hydrogen and bromine are attractive alternatives to these devices, which can produce a potential of 1.23 volts at standard conditions. For 10 points each:
Name these devices which generate electrical energy by the reaction of hydrogen and oxygen gas to make water.
At the heart of a fuel cell is a membrane that is selectively permeable to this species. Two of these species are reduced by two electrons to make one mole of gas in the redox reaction conventionally assigned zero volts.
Since the hydrogen eventually does get oxidized into protons in the fuel cell, it enters the device at this electrode, which is where the oxidation occurs. In a galvanic cell, a salt bridge connects this electrode to the cathode.
fuel cells [prompt on galvanic cells; prompt on voltaic cells]
protons [or H-plus; or hydrogen ion; or hydrogen cation; prompt on hydrogen or H; do not accept or prompt on "hydrogen atom"]
anode &lt;Silverman&gt;
This component of the Earth is divided into four layers, the top level of which is deep-sea sediment, and the bottom of which is gabbro. For 10 points each:
Name this structure, which contains more magnesium and iron than its "continental" counterpart. It moves through seafloor spreading.
The Vine–Matthews–Morley Hypothesis tested seafloor spreading by assuming that "reversals" of this vector field alter the striping of the seafloor. This field causes compasses to point towards "true north".
Oceanic crust is formed by the solidification of this rock in the mantle, which has a greenish color. This rock is comprised of olivine and pyroxene minerals, and it was named for a semiprecious gem made from olivine.
oceanic crust [prompt on benthos or ocean floor; prompt on crust]
Earth's magnetic field [or geomagnetic field]
peridotite [do not accept or prompt on "peridot"] &lt;Jose&gt;
The father of an Indian girl who is dying of this disease has sued Johnson &amp; Johnson to release a new drug to treat it. For 10 points each:
Identify this disease. The multi-drug-resistant version of this disease can be treated by Johnson &amp; Johnson's drug bedaquiline.
Bedaquiline is this type of drug, as is penicillin. Fear of resistance to these types of drugs led the FDA to ban 19 types of them in soaps and body washes in 2016.
India is the largest global producer of these types of drugs, which became much easier to sell in the United States following the passage of the 1984 Hatch-Waxman Act. These drugs are typically less complex to make than biosimilars.
tuberculosis [or TB]
antibiotic [or antibacterial; prompt on antimicrobial]
generic drugs &lt;Bentley&gt;
It used to be common for physics teachers to create an analyzer from a type of dichoric photographic material developed by Edwin Land to demonstrate the plane of this property. For 10 points each:
Identify this property that comes in linear, circular, and plane forms for light.
Polarization can only exist for these types of waves since longitudinal waves do not oscillate in a fashion that allow them to be polarized. Pond ripples are examples of these types of waves.
Some of these devices are made up of twisted-nematic cells, which eliminate the twist between bottom and top polarizers when an electric field is applied, rendering the cell opaque. That twisted-nematic effect allowed these devices to work with small voltages from batteries.
polarization [or polarized light]
transverse waves
LCDs [or liquid crystal displays; prompt on liquid crystals] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The namesake protein of this signaling pathway is glycosylated by three isoforms of the Fringe protein; namely <em>manic</em> fringe, <em>lunatic</em> fringe, and <em>radical</em> fringe. For 10 points each:
Name this unusual signaling pathway which is activated when a transmembrane receptor is proteolytically cleaved by the Delta protein on another cell.
Traditionally, signaling pathways rely less on proteolysis and more on the targeted proteasomal destruction of proteins that are tagged with this small protein. This protein is named for the fact that it's found in nearly all eukaryotes.
For instance, ubiquitination is key to the Wnt ("went") pathway, which, like Notch, was first characterized in this model organism, an insect whose species name is melanogaster.
Notch pathway
ubiquitin [or ubiquitination; or Ub]
Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit fly; prompt on fly] &lt;Silverman&gt;
I scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream! For 10 points each:
Agnes Marshall's book Fancy Ices introduced the use of the liquid form of this element in ice cream production. Its gaseous form makes up about 78 percent of Earth's atmosphere.
Many newspaper articles credited this politician, who had an Oxford chemistry degree, with inventing soft-serve ice cream by devising a method to inject air into the cream. This politician's other dairy-related exploits include slashing public spending such that some schoolchildren no longer received free milk.
Ice cream often contains this family of polysaccharide compounds as a stabilizing agent. This class of compounds is extracted from red algae, like Irish moss, and is frequently used in toothpaste.
nitrogen [or N]
Margaret Hilda Thatcher
carrageenans (CARE-uh-JEE-nins) &lt;Jose&gt;
Conrad Waddington coined the name of this field and described its landscape as analogous to a marble rolling down a hill. For 10 points each:
Name this field of genetics that considers all heritable traits that cannot be explained simply by changes to DNA sequence.
At the top of Waddington's epigenetic landscape would be a totipotent one of these cells, which is capable of differentiating into all other cell types. By contrast, embryonic ones are only pluripotent.
Reprogramming a differentiated adult cell into a stem cell, which is analogous to rolling the marble back up the hill, can be accomplished by transfecting cells with Oct4, Sox2, c-Myc (C-mick), and Klf4. Those proteins are collectively named for this Japanese biologist, who won a Nobel Prize in 2012 for discovering induced pluripotency.
epigenetics [or epigenetic landscape]
totipotent stem cells
Shinya Yamanaka [or Yamanaka factors] &lt;Grames&gt;
A decrease in the rate of these events actually diminishes the population of black-backed woodpeckers. For 10 points each:
Name these events that stimulate the release of seeds from lodgepole pine trees. These ecosystem-destroying events are especially common in dry chaparral areas like the Sierra Nevadas in California.
After a fire, this specific recovery process takes place, as pioneer species move in and vegetation begins to grow back. In this specific process, however, soil does not need to be regenerated.
Joseph Connell hypothesized that this quantity is maximized for medium frequencies of disturbances in an ecosystem. Mosaic patch burning is used to deliberately increase this quantity, which can be measured by the Simpson index or by a version of the Shannon entropy.
wildfires
secondary succession [prompt on succession]
biodiversity [or species diversity; or the number of different species; or obvious equivalents] &lt;Grames&gt;
Answer some questions about methods for solving differential equations, for 10 points each.
In an ordinary differential equation with two variables, this method ensures that those variables are both integrable by being moved to different sides of the equals sign and then being integrated over.
The ability to integrate both sides in a "separation of variables" problem relies on this theorem relating the infinitely many antiderivatives of a function on a closed interval to the definite integral over the bounds of that interval. Another part of this theorem establishes differentiation as the inverse process of integration.
An ordinary differential equation that needs to be made integrable can be multiplied through by one of these functions. These functions are especially useful for rendering first-order ODEs tractable.
separation of variables [prompt on separation or word forms like separable]
fundamental theorem of calculus [or FTC; accept first fundamental theorem of calculus; accept second fundamental theorem of calculus]
integrating factors &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
Name some things about electron counting, for 10 points each.
The simplest principle for counting electrons is that all atoms are most stable when they have eight total valence electrons, a rule given this appropriate name.
The octet rule gets thrown in the trash when dealing with coordination complexes, which prefer to have this many valence electrons instead, since they follow the octet rule and have a full d subshell, too.
The mno electron-counting rules are helpful for predicting the structure of compounds of this element, which forms skeletal polyhedra in compounds where it is bonded only to hydrogen.
octet rule
eighteen [or 18; accept the eighteen-electron rule]
boron [or B] &lt;Silverman&gt;
One common application of these devices is to determine the molecular weight of proteins by observing how fast the boundary between the solvent and the sedimenting molecules reach the periphery. For 10 points each:
Identify these types of devices whose drum may be powered by an air turbine.
Most ultracentrifuges, which rotate at over 20,000 rpm, place the drum in one of these environments to avoid the heat caused by air resistance. These environments can be created by namesake pumps that remove gas molecules.
One hypothetical use of a centrifuge is to simulate this thing in order to prevent problems such as bone decalcification. Centrifuges are also used to simulate the effects of environments with a high degree of this force.
centrifuges [or ultracentrifuges]
vacuum [or partial vacuum]
gravity [or artificial gravity; or g-force; or gravitational force] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Quasars and blazars are some of the entities that compose the "active nuclei" at the center of these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these large collections of stars. They come in "elliptical" and "spiral" morphologies.
Some active galactic nuclei contain these features, which are ejections of plasma at relativistic speeds along the rotation axis of the nucleus. The pointing of these structures toward Earth is thought to be a defining feature of blazars.
In active galactic nuclei, material forms a disc through this process of accumulating mass. Protogalaxies become galaxies after they have acquired enough mass through this process.
galaxies [accept galaxy; accept spiral galaxies or elliptical galaxies]
relativistic jets
accretion [or accrete; or accreting] &lt;Jose&gt;
The C allele in this organism epistatically regulates the expression of color from the Bz <strong>(B-Z)</strong> locus, which has a purple dominant phenotype and a brown recessive phenotype. For 10 points each:
Name this model organism. Its Ac ("ack") gene regulates the expression of Ds (D-S), a gene that can temporarily dissociate from this organism's chromosomes.
Barbara McClintock's studies in corn led her to hypothesize the existence of these so-called "jumping genes," which are capable of cut-and-paste or copy-and-paste moves.
The majority of transposons in corn encode a version of this enzyme. RNA sequencing relies on a form of this enzyme to generate a library of cDNAs.
corn [or Zea mays; or maize]
transposons [or transposable elements; or TEs]
reverse transcriptase [or RT] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Doping phosphorus into silicon increases the concentration of these species in the silicon. For 10 points each:
Name these charge carriers that are more common in n-type semiconductors than intrinsic and p-type semiconductors. The energy of these species is described by semiconductor band theory.
The band gap in these materials is so large that there is essentially no probability that an electron added to the system will be in the conduction band. As a result, these materials don't conduct electricity.
This quantity is defined as the energy level, usually between the two bands of a semiconductor, that an electron added to the semiconductor has exactly a 50 percent probability of occupying.
free electrons
insulators
Fermi level &lt;Silverman&gt;
This prefix is commonly used to describe cyclic compounds like pyrrole and furan, or the specific nitrogen and oxygen atoms that those cyclic compounds contain. For 10 points each:
Identify this six-letter prefix used in organic chemistry to refer to any element that isn't carbon or hydrogen.
Since the heteroatoms in furan and pyrrole can supply pi electrons from their lone pairs, those compounds have this stabilizing property, which only occurs in planar, cyclic, conjugated compounds with the right number of pi electrons, such as benzene.
However, because it's aromatic, pyrrole won't donate its lone pairs, making it a poor one of these compounds, even though it's an amine. According to the Brønsted–Lowry definition, these compounds accept protons.
hetero-
aromatic [or aromaticity]
bases [or Brønsted–Lowry bases; or Lewis bases] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Answer the following about the physics of loudspeakers, for 10 points each.
The efficiency of a loudspeaker is the ratio of the sound form of this quantity as output and the electric form of this quantity as input. The SI unit for this rate of work is the watt.
One goal when designing a speaker is for the cone to have a strong form of this characteristic so that the frequency response is consistent across different sounds. The critical coefficient of this name is equal to 2 times the square root of the spring constant and mass in a harmonic oscillator.
One of the difficulties of designing a good speaker is the inherently subjective nature of this property, which is based on factors such as the attack and delay, vibrato and harmonic content. This property measures the overall perceived quality of a sound.
power
damping
timbre [or tone quality; or tone quality] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This only species in the genus <em>Birgus</em> breathes using an organ called the branchiostegal lung, rather than its vestigial gills. For 10 points each:
Name this apparently-delicious animal, the largest terrestrial arthropod. Their most common names come from a feeding behavior in which they climb trees to access a certain food, which they then strip, drop to the ground, and crack into.
Coconut crabs may have eaten the remains, and then hidden the bones, of this pioneering female aviator, who disappeared over the Pacific during an attempted circumnavigation of the Earth in 1937.
Coconut crabs can be found on the Aldabra atoll, the second largest coral atoll in the world, which is a part of the Outer Islands of this archipelagic country. Its capital Victoria is located on its largest island, Mahé.
coconut crabs [or robber crab; or palm thief; or Birgus latro; prompt on crabs]
Amelia Mary Earhart
Republic of Seychelles [or République des Seychelles; or Repiblik Sesel] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about Raymond Davis, the father of "neutrino astrophysics," for 10 points each.
Davis ran the Homestake Experiment to see how many neutrinos this body emitted; the problem of this body emitting significantly fewer neutrinos than expected was finally resolved with the proposal that neutrinos undergo "flavor oscillations."
Davis was also the first to confirm that the Sun fused hydrogen atoms to create this element. Pierre Jansen named this element after the Greek word for "sun" after he observed this element during an eclipse.
Davis's Homestake Experiment was located underground in South Dakota to reduce the background noise from these particles. Greisen, Zatsepin, and Kuzmin proposed a theoretical upper limit of the energy of these particles.
the Sun [or Sol]
helium [or He]
cosmic rays &lt;Jose&gt;
Cholesterol and its derivatives form nematic liquid crystals described by this adjective, which is also used to describe the angle between unit vectors in a single-walled carbon nanotube. For 10 points each:
Name this adjective that, in organic chemistry, describes compounds that are different from their mirror images.
Chirality leads to the "stereo" form of this chemical property, in which two compounds have the same chemical formula, but the atoms are attached differently.
A basic example of constitutional isomerism is the fact that all saturated alcohols with two or more carbons have an isomer with this functional group. Exactly one of these compounds has the chemical formula C2H6O.
chiral
isomerism [or word forms; or stereoisomerism]
ethers &lt;Silverman&gt;
Phenylketonuria is a common example of this phenomenon, since it results in decreased production of melanin but also mental retardation. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which a single genotype is responsible for multiple different phenotypes, as opposed to epistasis. It's also demonstrated by Marfan syndrome.
Pleiotropy and epistasis go beyond the traditional views of genetics named for this Austrian monk, who did some thrilling experiments with peas.
This other commonly cited pleiotropic disease can lead to vaso-occlusive crises but also inflammation of the fingers. Linus Pauling figured out the molecular basis of this disease, an E6V point mutation, and called it the first "molecular disease."
pleiotropy [or word forms]
Gregor Mendel
sickle cell disease [or sickle cell anemia; or SCD] &lt;Silverman&gt;
PACE NSC 2017 - Round 05 - Bonuses 1.Answer the following questions about Diophantine equations, for 10 points each.
Diophantine equations only have solutions in this set of numbers. Taking the quotient of each pair of this set of numbers produces the rational numbers.
Many Diophantine equations can be solved through the application of this theorem. This theorem states that if a and b are relatively prime integers, and if x and y are any integers, then there exists an integer n such that n is congruent to x modulo a and n is congruent to y modulo b.
The 10th problem posed by this German mathematician in 1900 is the question of whether there is a universal algorithm for solving Diophantine equations.
integers [accept Z]
Chinese remainder theorem [or Chinese theorem; or Chinese hypothesis]
David Hilbert &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
This quantity can be calculated for nonuniform objects by integrating the mass density times the radius squared over each differential volume element. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that generally equals an object's mass, times a characteristic dimension squared, times a fraction between zero and one.
For instance, the moment of inertia of a uniform rod about a perpendicular axis through its middle equals the rod's length squared, times its mass, times this fraction.
The moment of inertia will always be minimized about an axis that passes through this point. On Earth's surface, the gravitational force is usually placed at this location.
moment of inertia [or rotational inertia]
one-twelfth [or 1/12]
center of mass &lt;Silverman&gt;
The two approaches to this field are classified as either top-down or bottom-up, depending on if enzymatic degradation occurs before mass spectrometry. For 10 points each:
Name this field of chemical biology that aims to characterize all the proteins in an organism.
The first "-omics" (OH-mix) field was genomics, which was spurred on by technological improvements to this process in the 1990s that enabled the HGP. In this process, a DNA molecule is read to determine the order of its nucleotides.
Transcriptomics, a more recent -omics field, aims to characterize all of these other molecules produced in a cell via next-gen sequencing. In eukaryotes, these molecules are capped at the 5-prime end.
proteomics [or proteome]
DNA sequencing
mRNAs [or messenger RNAs; or messenger ribonucleic acids; prompt on RNAs or ribonucleic acids] &lt;Silverman&gt;
This mathematical function solves the general population growth model "d<em>P</em> d<em>t</em>", such that the population growth rate, is proportional to <em>P</em>, the current population size. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical function used to model unlimited population growth.
In pure exponential growth, the proportionality constant is usually represented by this lowercase letter. As a result, this letter names "strategist" species that have lots of offspring with very little parental investment, as opposed to K-selecting species.
Logistic models are more appropriate to describe limited population growth. According to the Verhulst logistic model, dP dt equals r P times what dimensionless function of P and the carrying capacity K?
exponential growth [or e to the x; or e to the t]
r-selecting species
one minus quantity P-over-K [or mathematical equivalents] &lt;Grames&gt;
The branch of math named after these constructs is also called metamathematics since it analyzes the logical form of many mathematical theories. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs that can be classified as "formal" or "informal" depending on whether they are rigorously grounded in axioms and rules of inference.
Proofs are typically introduced to mathematics students in this field. Students in this field use techniques like the SAS postulate and compass-straightedge construction to prove theorems.
Possibly the most important result in proof theory is this theorem asserting that in a formal system meeting certain requirements, there exist statements that cannot be proven or disproven in that system's language. An extension of this theorem states that a consistent formal system with the aforementioned requirements cannot prove its own consistency.
proofs
geometry
Gödel's incompleteness theorem [accept Gödel's first incompleteness theorem; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
In Knudson's two-hit hypothesis, both copies of these genes are inactivated. For 10 points each:
Name these genes in which loss-of-function causes cancer, as contrasted with a proto-oncogene, in which gain-of-function leads to cancer.
The most common class of tumor suppressor genes, including p53, p27, and p16, are named for their molecular weights measured in these specific units. These units are used to quantify the ladder on an SDS-PAGE gel.
The first tumor suppressor gene to be characterized was a protein named for the fact that it causes cancer of this organ in children. This tissue at the back of the eye contains photoreceptors called rods and cones.
tumor suppressor gene [or TSGs; or tumor suppressors]
kilodaltons [or kD; or kDa; or kilograms per mole; do not accept or prompt on "daltons" or "D"]
retina &lt;Silverman&gt;
This force arises from the increasing magnitude of pressure forces acting on a body as depth increases. For 10 points each:
Identify this force that is opposed to gravity. The Plimsoll Mark is used to identify when this force is not enough to compensate for overloading.
This Greek mathematician's namesake principle states that a submerged object is subject to an upwards buoyant force equal to the weight of the displaced fluid. This man supposedly used the principle to prove that a king's crown wasn't made of solid gold.
A higher value for the Brunt–Väisälä frequency, also known as the buoyancy frequency, corresponds to a greater ambient form of this property in a system. A vertical piece of equipment on an airplane governs the yaw or directional form of this property for the plane.
buoyant force [or buoyancy]
Archimedes of Syracuse
stability &lt;Bentley&gt;
Dennis Gabor won a Nobel Prize for his invention of these things while working on an improvement to the electron microscope. For 10 points each:
Identify these three-dimensional images created by the interference pattern between the object and reference beams.
Gabor's ideas didn't have much practical use until the 1960s with the development of these devices, which produce light of both high coherence and high intensity. The continuous-wave type of these devices are particularly useful in holography.
One application of pulsed-laser holography is in these devices, in which it can be easier to use to measure changes in air density than optical interferometers. Extremely hot air is required for these devices that operate at hypervelocity speeds, and digital CFD modeling has reduced some of the need for using them.
hologram [or holography]
lasers
wind tunnels &lt;Bentley&gt;
The most common compound at this site is a quaternary amine called choline <strong>(COAL-een)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Give this common name for the hydrophilic part of the phospholipids that constitute the cell membrane. This polar moiety is linked to a diglyceride by a phosphate group.
Phospholipids in the cell membrane spontaneously organize themselves to form one of these geometric structures, which is composed two sheets of amphiphiles that align tail-on, with the head groups pointing outwards.
This noun is used to refer to the two individual "outer" and "inner" sheets of the lipid bilayer. Flippases (FLIP-aces) move phospholipids between these two structures.
polar head group
phospholipid bilayer [or lipid bilayer]
leaflets &lt;Silverman&gt;
A 2016 paper in <em>Science</em> reported that a nanotextured form of this material fifteen nanometers thick could absorb 99 percent of incoming light. For 10 points each:
Name this extremely conductive material, a two-dimensional sheet of carbon atoms that can be obtained by peeling off graphite with a piece of Scotch tape.
Graphene and graphite are examples of these substances for carbon. This term refers to the different physical forms that a pure element can exist in.
Graphene oxide is being investigated for its potential use in this industrial process because of its very high specific surface area. Metal-organic frameworks are another attractive option for making up the beds of molecular sieves where this industrial process takes place.
graphene
allotropes [or allotropy]
gas adsorption [or gas storage; wastewater adsorption; or sorption; or adsorbents; prompt on gas purification; do not accept or prompt on "absorption"] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Pebbles of this rock are sometimes called "Apache tears". For 10 points each:
Name this igneous rock, which is formed by the rapid cooling of felsic lava. It has a glassy luster and is frequently used to make scalpel blades.
Obsidian is an example of this kind of igneous rock, which is formed after the source lava has left the interior of the Earth. Basalt and rhyolite are other examples of this kind of igneous rock.
Because obsidian forms when lava cools relatively rapidly, significant crystal growth does not occur, making it this kind of rock in which the crystal structure is nonexistent or invisible to the naked eye.
obsidian
extrusive [prompt on volcanic rocks]
aphanitic &lt;Jose&gt;
The radiation force on a charged particle unusually depends on the time derivative of this quantity, since the power radiated depends on this quantity squared. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which, for a particle moving in a magnetic field, equals charge times velocity times magnetic field, all divided by the particle's mass.
The fact that accelerating charges radiate energy was a key failure of this Danish physicist's atomic model, which proposed electrons go around in fixed orbits and was used as the basis of the Rydberg formula.
Still, the Rydberg equation does a decent job predicting hydrogen's spectral lines. For instance, for an electron excited from the n-equals-one state to the n-equals-two state, it accurately predicts a line at wavenumber equal to the Rydberg constant times this fraction.
acceleration [or a]
Niels Bohr [or Bohr model]
three-quarters [or 3/4; or 0.75] &lt;Silverman&gt;
December 21 and June 21 are said to be the "winter" and "summer" version of these events respectively. For 10 points each:
Name these events in which the Sun is at an extremum of the celestial equator. They are contrasted with equinoxes.
The solstices are also the extreme points on this circular construct, the Sun's apparent path on the celestial sphere. Members of the zodiac lie on it.
Astronomers often report measurements of time using this kind of year, whose name is from the Latin word for "star," and which is defined as the amount of time it takes for the Sun to travel along the ecliptic. It is approximately 20 minutes longer than the tropical year.
solstices [accept winter solstice or summer solstice]
ecliptic plane
sidereal year &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about the enzyme aromatase <strong>(uh-ROME-uh-taze)</strong>, for 10 points each:
It converts testosterone into the most important example of this class of sex hormones, which are responsible for the development of secondary sex characteristics in females.
The temperature response of aromatase is thought to be a contributing factor for temperature-dependent sex determination, a phenomenon most commonly observed in this animal class. Parthenogenesis has been extensively studied in the Cnemidophorus (nuh-MEED-oh-FOR-us) genus from this class, some species of which have no extant males.
Aromatase requires this reducing agent and oxygen as cofactors. Oxidizing a mole of water in the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis makes two moles of this electron carrier.
estrogens [or estradiol]
reptiles [or Reptilia] [The parthenogenetic animals are whiptail lizards.]
NADPH [or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate; or NADP+; do not accept or prompt on “NADH” or “NAD+”] &lt;Grames&gt;
The gas phase mass transfer coefficient is converted to the liquid phase mass transfer coefficient by dividing by this factor. For 10 points each:
Name this constant that is used to calculate the fugacity of very dilute solutions of gases in liquids. It equals around 40,000 atmospheres for oxygen in water at room temperature, since oxygen is very insoluble in water.
Dissolved oxygen can be measured chemically using the Winkler test, a form of this analytical technique in which a known concentration of liquid is added to an unknown sample through a burette.
What little oxygen that does dissolve in water is completely used up during algal blooms, which are caused when either nitrate or this other polyatomic ion is dumped into a pond, resulting in eutrophication.
Henry's constant [or Henry's law constant]
titration [or word forms]
phosphate [or PO4 3-minus] &lt;Silverman&gt;
A chunk of sodium is dropped into a beaker of water, and it catches fire. For 10 points each:
Name the two products that form in that reaction. You may neglect the solvation of soluble ionic compounds.
Sodium is extremely reactive because it has a very low value for this quantity, the energy required to remove an electron from an atom.
Substances like sodium that are extremely reactive with water are labelled on their NFPA diamonds with this symbol in the white "special notice" field. A description of the symbol is acceptable.
hydrogen gas AND sodium hydroxide [or H2 AND NaOH]
ionization energy [or ionization enthalpy]
a W with a line drawn through it [or ₩; or a W with two lines drawn through it; accept answers involving a strikethrough or stroke or bar through the W; prompt on W alone] &lt;Silverman&gt;
In 1989, Stanley Fleischmann and Martin Pons claimed to have successfully initiated this process, though their work has been repeatedly debunked. For 10 points each:
Name this theoretical process of combining atomic nuclei at relatively low temperatures.
The original cold fusion announcement by Fleischmann and Pons claimed that electrodes of this element would absorb deuterium nuclei and force them to fuse. Both the Heck reaction and the Suzuki coupling are catalyzed by a complex of this element.
The U.S. Patent Office rejects all patent applications for only two specific types of ideas without a working model: one is cold fusion, and the other is this kind of device, an example of which is the Brownian ratchet.
cold fusion [prompt on fusion]
palladium [or Pd]
perpetual motion machines &lt;Jose&gt;
One way to formulate the hierarchy problem is to ask why this quantity is so small compared to the Planck scale for it. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is roughly equal to the vacuum expectation value for a field that is unusually finite at the origin and allows the breaking of electroweak symmetry. It equals around 126 giga-electron volts.
You can convert the mass of the Higgs boson in energy units to standard SI kilograms by dividing by what specific constant? It is also the ratio of a nucleus's binding energy to its mass defect.
The result of that calculation is that the Higgs boson is roughly 100 times as massive as this hadron, which is found with neutrons in atomic nuclei.
mass of the Higgs boson [or mass of the Higgs particle; or Higgs mass; or mass-energy of the Higgs boson; prompt on partial answer; prompt on energy of the Higgs boson]
c-squared [or the speed of light squared; do not accept or prompt on just "c" or "speed of light"]
proton &lt;Silverman&gt;
The Antarctic icefish has lost these cells in an attempt to save energy, since these cells are responsible for making blood a non-Newtonian fluid. For 10 points each:
Name these cells that are full of hemoglobin to transport oxygen in the blood.
In mammals, mature red blood cells, or reticulocytes, possess this unusual structural feature, an evolutionary consequence of trying to fit as much hemoglobin in a cell as possible. It prevents red blood cells from making proteins.
Immature red blood cells do have nuclei, since they derive from this class of progenitor cells. Hematopoietic stem cells will differentiate down either this lineage, which also includes platelets and neutrophils, or the lymphoid lineage.
red blood cells [or RBCs; or erythrocytes; or reticulocytes]
anucleate [or they have no nucleus; or they have no DNA; or similar answers]
myeloid progenitor cells [or myeloid lineage] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Harald Helfgott proved the weak version of this statement in 2013. For 10 points each:
Name this conjecture that states that every integer greater than two is expressible as the sum of two primes. Unlike the weak version, which states that every odd number greater than five is expressible as the sum of three primes, this conjecture remains unsolved.
Another conjecture about prime numbers concerns the supposition that there are an infinite number of these sorts of primes, which are a distance of exactly two away from another prime. The first Hardy–Littlewood conjecture generalizes the conjecture named after these primes.
Serious progress was made on the twin prime conjecture in 2013 when this previously obscure mathematician published a paper proving that there are an infinite number of pairs of prime numbers that are separated by some number less than 70 million.
Goldbach's conjecture [or the Goldbach conjecture]
twin primes [or prime twin; or prime pair]
Yitang Zhang (EE-tong JONG) [or Tom Zhang] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
This man conducted a series of experiments that allowed to him explain in what circumstances a scalpel touched to an exposed frog nerve would cause the frog to twitch. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian scientist who discovered animal electricity. The electric contraction of muscles is now named for him.
The current for some of Galvani's experiments was produced through these devices, a primitive type of capacitor consisting of a metal foil surrounded by glass. These devices are named for the city in which Pieter van Musschenbroek (MUSH-uh-bruke) worked.
Leyden jars store this type of electricity. For safety, one should wear a conductive strap to prevent discharge of this type of electricity when working with electronics.
Luigi Galvani [or Luigi Aloisio Galvani; or Aloysius Galvanus]
Leyden jar [or Leiden jar]
static electricity &lt;Bentley&gt;
The surface area of this structure is indented by sulci <strong>(SULL-kye)</strong> and gyri <strong>(JYE-rye)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Name this major part of the brain, divided into two hemispheres and four lobes. Its cortex is responsible for cognition.
During embryonic development, the cerebrum forms from this most rostral part of the forebrain. This structure lies above the diencephalon, which instead develops into the thalamus and hypothalamus.
The telencephalon also develops into subcortical structures, such as this group of structures that includes the amygdala, hippocampus, and olfactory bulb. This system is responsible for memory and emotion.
cerebrum [or cerebral cortex]
telencephalon
limbic system &lt;Silverman&gt;
This quantity, which has units of energy times volume, varies with temperature to the five-halves in the Redlich–Kwong equation. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that, in another equation, is divided by the molar volume squared to give a correction term to the pressure that arises from intermolecular attractive forces.
The a term in the van der Waals equation is exactly equal to three, times the squared volume at this point, times the pressure at this point. At this point on a phase diagram, a vapor can no longer be condensed.
The van der Waals equation's b term, on the other hand, accounts for this property of the gas particles, which the ideal gas law also assumes to be zero.
the a term in the van der Waals equation
critical point
their volume [or their size; or obvious equivalents; do not accept or prompt on "mass"] &lt;Silverman&gt;
<em>Bacillus subtilis</em> <strong>(buh-SILL-us suh-TILL-us)</strong> is the namesake of the world's most important industrial enzyme, subtilisin <strong>(suh-till-EYE-sin)</strong> , which is one of these proteins that is used in laundry detergent. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins that use a catalytic triad of histidine, aspartate, and a namesake polar amino acid to hydrolyze peptide bonds. Examples of them include pepsin and trypsin.
Serine proteases auto-activate zymogens like pepsinogen in this body organ, which receives a bolus of food after peristalsis pushes it through the esophagus.
A combination of serine proteases and acid convert the food bolus in the stomach into this acidic lumpy fluid that leaves the stomach and enters the small intestines.
serine proteases [or serine proteinase; prompt on proteases or proteinases; prompt on hydrolases]
stomach
chyme &lt;Grames&gt;
The sediment directly deposited by these things is called till. For 10 points each:
Name these slowly advancing masses of ice. Erosion caused by them turns angular V-shaped valleys into smoother U-shaped valleys.
The most widespread sediment produced by glaciers are these ridges of till. The "lateral" type of them are formed when a glacier melts away, while the "medial" type of them form as glaciers merge.
Till is contrasted with stratified sediment, the latter of which is deposited by the melted water of a glacier instead of by the glacier itself. Unlike till, stratified settlement usually has this property, in which the grain sizes of the sediment are relatively similar.
glaciers
moraines
sorted [or sorting] &lt;Jose&gt;
The gyromagnetic ratio is the ratio between this quantity and the magnetic dipole moment. For 10 points each:
Name this classical quantity that, in quantum mechanics, is usually considered to have a "total" value symbolized J equal to the sum of two operators symbolized L and S.
The Stern–Gerlach experiment proved electrons don't have just orbital angular momentum, but also this form of intrinsic, quantized angular momentum, which is often labelled for electrons as pointing either "up" or "down".
Another key result of the Stern–Gerlach experiment was that if you select only for electrons with positive spin along the z-axis, then perform this action, and then measure their spin along the z-axis again, half the electrons now have a negative spin. A description is fine.
angular momentum [do not accept or prompt on "momentum"]
spin angular momentum
measure their spins along the x-axis [or measure their spins along the y-axis; or measure their spins in a different direction; or rotate 90 degrees; or any obvious equivalents] &lt;Silverman&gt;
The "anomic" form of this condition, which is also known as dysnomia, causes an impairment in word retrieval. For 10 points each:
Name this disorder, the inability to correctly process or produce speech.
In contrast to Wernicke's (VAIR-nick-uh's) aphasia, in which a patient produces nonsense words, the type of aphasia named for this Frenchman causes patients to be unable to produce any words. It is caused by damage to this man's namesake region of the brain.
Broca's area can be found in the cerebral cortex as part of the "frontal" one of these structures. The other instances of these structures in the cerebral cortex are the parietal, occipital, and temporal.
aphasia
Paul Broca [accept Broca's aphasia]
frontal lobe [or parietal lobe; or occipital lobe; or temporal lobe] &lt;Jose&gt;
The term symbol for these elements is always one-S-zero. For 10 points each:
Name these elements whose atomic symbols are placed in brackets in a shorthand often used when writing electron configurations.
Other than helium, noble gases have full valence shells comprising a single s orbital and three of these orbitals, which are shaped like dumbbells and are oriented along the coordinate axes.
The one in the term symbol one-S-zero is the spin multiplicity and corresponds to a total spin of zero, since all the electrons in a noble gas are paired. In general, for total spin S, the spin multiplicity is what function of S?
noble gases [or inert gases; or Group 18; or Group 8]
p orbitals
2S plus 1 [or two times S plus one; or mathematical equivalents] &lt;Silverman&gt;
In 2004, Merck was forced to pull a blockbuster inhibitor of one of these enzymes from the market. For 10 points each:
Name these enzymes crucial to prostaglandin synthesis which come in two isoforms, labelled 1 and 2. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like aspirin and ibuprofen target these enzymes.
Merck's failed drug Vioxx selectively inhibited only COX-2, and as a result, limited this common side effect of NSAIDs. In this condition, a small break forms in the mucosa of the stomach.
Unfortunately, the decrease in ulcers was countered by a sharp increase in the prevalence of this other condition, in which blood flow to the heart suddenly stops. It is often accompanied by chest pain.
cyclooxygenases [or COX; COX-1; or COX-2; or prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase; or PTGS; do not accept or prompt on "oxygenases"]
gastric ulcer [or peptic ulcer]
heart attack [or acute myocardial infarction] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Nod factors are composed of fatty acids attached to this compound. For 10 points each:
Name this polymer that is structurally identical to cellulose, except a hydroxyl group is replaced by an N-acetyl group. The septa separating hyphae are usually made of it.
In fungi, this cellular structure is uniquely made out of chitin. It is composed of peptidoglycan in bacteria and cellulose in plants.
Largely because they have chitinous cell walls, chytrids are definitively classified as fungi, even though they belong to this unusual taxonomic grouping of mostly animals that move using a single posterior flagellum.
chitin
cell wall
opisthokonts [or Opisthokonta] &lt;Silverman&gt;
In Hermann–Maguin <strong>(moh-GANN)</strong> notation, this geometry is represented by a capital I. For 10 points each:
Name this Bravais (bra-VAY) lattice in which the lattice constants are equal and the axes are perpendicular to each other, but there are two total atoms per unit cell. Its included atoms are often described as "one-eighth times eight, plus one."
This element's alpha form crystallizes as body-centered cubic, but its gamma form does so as face-centered cubic. This transition metal mixes with small amounts of carbon to form a strong alloy whose phases include martensite and cementite.
The softest form of carbon steel is named for this 3D shape that forms in the steel's microstructure when it is heated for long times. In crystal lattices, atoms are drawn with this 3D shape.
body-centered cubic [or bcc; prompt on cubic]
iron [or Fe]
spheres [or spherical] &lt;Silverman&gt;
For a car on a banked curve, this force is just the friction between the wheels and the road. For 10 points each:
Name this force that is directed inward to keep an object in uniform circular motion. Unlike the fictitious centrifugal force, this one is real.
If the car has mass m, velocity v, and is going around a curve of radius r, then what is the magnitude of the centripetal force, in terms of m, v, and r?
If the car slows down as it goes over the curve, then this other fictitious force is nonzero. This force's namesake also lends his name to an equation that gives the torque on a rotating rigid body when observed in a rotating reference frame.
centripetal force
m times v-squared over r [or mv²/r; or mathematical equivalents]
Euler force [or Euler equations; or Leonhard Euler] &lt;Silverman&gt;
This condition is satisfied for a linear transformation if and only if the kernel of that linear transformation is zero. For 10 points each:
Name this type of function f that, for elements x and y in the domain of f, implies that x equals y whenever f-of-x equals f-of-y. This condition, when combined with the condition of being onto, defines a bijection.
On a Cartesian coordinate system in which a function is graphed, a test named for one of these constructs can evaluate whether that function is one-to-one. A test named for a different one can evaluate whether a graph represents a function.
When doing an action of this name to a function that fails the horizontal line test, a multivalued function can result. Applying an action of this name to a matrix can be accomplished using methods like Gauss–Jordan elimination and LU decomposition.
one-to-one function [or injective function; or injection; accept "map" or "mapping" in place of function]
lines [accept horizontal line (test) or vertical line (test)]
inverting [or inversion; accept answers like taking the inverse] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
This quantity equals the Poynting vector's average magnitude divided by the speed of light, and, if the field is totally uniform, just equals one-third of the energy density in 3D. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity whose nonzero value is demonstrated in a classroom experiment where a vane placed inside a vacuum-tight light bulb rotates when the light is turned on.
The Crookes radiometer rotates because a side of the vane painted with this color absorbs the most light. This color identifies a type of "body" that is a perfect absorber of radiation.
The radiation pressure exerted on an emitter can be calculated using this other equation, which sets the power radiated from a blackbody to be proportional to the fourth power of temperature.
radiation pressure [prompt on partial answer]
black [or blackbody]
Stefan–Boltzmann law [or Stefan's law] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Cyanide is toxic because it inactivates an oxidoreductase named for this compound, which serves as complex IV <strong>(four)</strong> in the electron transport chain. For 10 points each:
Name this small protein which can escape from the mitochondria and bind to Apaf-1 (A-paff one) to form a seven-spoked wheel that in turn cleaves and activates caspase-9.
Cytochrome c oxidase catalyzes the last redox step of aerobic respiration, the formation of water from oxygen gas, a step that requires this many total electrons, on the basis of one mole of oxygen gas.
Bcl-2 desperately tries to keep cytochrome c inside the mitochondria, because once it escapes, the protein rapidly activates this pathway of programmed cell death, which is defective in cancer.
cytochrome c [or cyt c; prompt on cytochrome]
four [or 4]
apoptosis &lt;Silverman&gt;
Banded mongooses synchronize their breeding due to the hidden threat of this action. For 10 points each:
Name this action that male Hanuman langurs perform to induce oestrus (ESS-truss) in females. When they take over a new pride, male lions will perform this action to bring the females into heat.
John Hoogland has shown that the rate at which black-tailed prairie dogs kill infants often increases with genetic relatedness. That finding appears to contradict Hamilton's rule, which states that kin selection is the driving force for this type of selfless behavior.
The Bruce effect describes this response of female mice to threatened infanticide. Female rodents will perform this action when exposed to the scent of unfamiliar males, which can make breeding them in the lab a challenge.
infanticide [or descriptive equivalents, like killing babies or killing another male's offspring]
altruism [or altruistic behavior]
spontaneous termination of pregnancy [or obvious equivalents like spontaneous abortion] &lt;Grames&gt;
Answer some questions about the intricacies of box-and-whisker plots, for 10 points each.
The value of the distance between the ends of the box represents this measure of the "middle 50 percent" of a data set.
Data points beyond the whiskers are frequently given this name, indicating that they are distant from the more "normal" values closer to the median of the data set.
The commonly used Tukey box-and-whisker plot deems outliers as values that are outside the interval whose respective endpoints are (read slowly) "quartile-one minus quantity this constant times the interquartile range close quantity" and "quartile-three plus quantity this constant times the interquartile range close quantity."
the interquartile range [or IQR; or midspread; or H-spread]
outliers
three-halves [accept equivalents like 3/2 or 1.5] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
Answer the following about the thrilling world of doubled haploid plant breeding, for 10 points each.
Doubled haploid breeding speeds up breeding times by creating plants with this property at every locus within two generations. At Hardy–Weinberg equilibrium, the number of individuals with this property is given by "p-squared plus q-squared."
Industrially, doubled haploidy is often induced by treating haploid cells with this compound, which keeps chromosomes from segregating by inhibiting tubulin polymerization. This compound is also used to treat gout.
In angiosperms, the cell that is doubled is usually a pollen cell, which represents this haploid phase of the plant's life cycle. During alternation of generations, this phase alternates with the sporophyte.
homozygosity [or word forms like homozygous]
colchicine
gametophyte &lt;Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about beta decay, for 10 points each.
If a nuclide with a mass of 50 amu (A-M-U) undergoes beta-minus decay, then what will be its mass in amu after the decay?
The mass is the same because along with the daughter nuclide, two massless particles are released:an electron and one of these particles. The electron-form of these leptons have a positive charge and are right-handed.
Beta decay does result in an increase in one for this number. It is traditionally symbolized Z, which stands for the German word for "number".
50 amu
antineutrinos [or electron antineutrinos; do not accept or prompt on "neutrinos"]
atomic number &lt;Silverman&gt;
Contact burns with this compound are treated by reacting it with a calcium gluconate gel, because otherwise it starts dissolving your bones. For 10 points each:
Name this extremely toxic compound, which is nevertheless widely used in the semiconductors industry to etch silicon.
Because of the low energy of the hydrogen–fluorine bond, hydrofluoric acid is the only hydrohalic acid that does not have this attribute in water. This type of acid completely dissociates in water to give hydronium ions.
Since it reacts with glass, HF is usually kept in containers made of this polymer. This polymer is a carbon backbone completely saturated by fluorine atoms.
hydrofluoric acid [or HF; or hydrogen fluoride; do not accept or prompt on "hydrochloric acid"]
strong acid [or word forms]
PTFE [or Teflon; or polytetrafluoroethylene] &lt;Silverman&gt;
These two numbers are the range and integral of the Dirac delta function, respectively. For 10 points each:
Name the two values used as digits in the binary number system.
This other delta function, which is named after a German mathematician, takes two numbers as inputs and returns one if they are equal and zero if they are not. The entries of the identity matrix are equal to this function's output when the indices of the matrix are the inputs.
Dummy variables take the values zero and one in this form of statistical analysis that estimates the relationship between a set of input variables and a response variable. Its most common form is ordinary least squares.
zero AND one [accept in either order; accept unity in place of one]
Kronecker delta function
linear regression analysis [or word forms like running regressions] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
Laguerre's method is very effective for this goal because it can yield an answer from virtually any starting position. For 10 points each:
Name this task that can also be accomplished by recursive application of Newton's method. A "rational" theorem constrains the values that need to be found for this task, and the Abel–Ruffini theorem states that finding a general formula for this task is impossible when the degree is five or greater.
Newton's method repeatedly takes the first few terms of this power series that expands about a point a such that f-of-x equals "f-of-a, plus f-prime-of-a times the quantity x-minus-a, et cetera." When a equals zero, it becomes the Maclaurin series.
Laguerre's method uses this function and its derivatives during root-finding applications. The Mercator series is the Taylor series expansion of this function.
root-finding [or finding the roots of a polynomial; or obvious equivalents like "finding a solution to a polynomial"; accept zeroes in place of "roots"]
Taylor series
natural logarithm [or ln; prompt on logarithm; prompt on log] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
Answer the following about the chemistry of the destruction of the ozone layer, for 10 points each:
Chlorofluorocarbons are a big problem because they quickly decompose to form chlorine atoms, which are examples of these species that have unpaired electrons and, as a result, are extremely reactive.
Normally in the Chapman cycle, ozone decomposition into radicals can be catalyzed by UV light, since the oxygen–oxygen bond in ozone is fairly weak, and has this unusual bond order.
The chlorine radicals, however, react with ozone to form chlorine monoxide, in this step of the radical mechanism. In this step of a radical chain mechanism, which happens many times, one radical is turned into another.
free radicals
three-halves [accept equivalents like 3/2 or 1.5]
chain propagation step &lt;Silverman&gt;
Drugs administered in this way typically show response curves that are sharply peaked with little range in the therapeutic window. For 10 points each:
Name this method of drug delivery in which a therapeutic is injected directly into a blood vessel that is flowing towards central circulation. It is often used to drip electrolytes into the bloodstream.
Oral drug delivery has its own problems: for instance, the first-pass effect, in which the drug molecule gets metabolized by this organ before it can reach circulation. Cytochrome P450s oxidize xenobiotics in this organ.
On the bright side, sort of, rapid metabolism by the liver increases this crucial value, the concentration of a drug that would kill half of all patients. Ideally, this quantity is larger than the effective dose.
intravenous [or word forms; or IV]
liver
LD50 [or lethal dose 50 percent; prompt on lethal dose] &lt;Silverman&gt;
The work done by this type of force is independent of the path taken since the potential energy is a well-defined state function. For 10 points each:
Name this type of force that can be written as the negative gradient of some potential function.
The elastic spring force is conservative, since the potential energy is held to be strictly a function of position, according to this law, which gives the restoring force on a spring to just be negative kx.
In reality, the spring force is not conservative, since its equation of motion also has a term equal to this quantity times the natural angular frequency times the velocity. This dimensionless quantity is the reciprocal of the Q factor.
conservative force
Hooke's law
damping ratio [or zeta; or twice the damping ratio; or two zeta; prompt on damping; the two is sometimes included into the value of zeta, but sometimes not] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Cloning vectors are often named according to their origin of replication, their copy number, and the form of this trait that they impart. For 10 points each:
Name this trait that is used as a selection pressure when doing bacterial culture. This trait is granted by enzymes like chloramphenicol acetyltransferase or beta-lactamase.
When growing E. coli in liquid culture, the appropriate antibiotic must be added to the culture medium, which is often this pungent yellow liquid composed of a 2-to-2-to-1 ratio of salt, tryptone, and yeast extract.
If you just want to grow individual colonies, you'd use solid agar as the growth substrate, immobilized in one of these dishes. These shallow dishes are often just called "plates".
antibiotic resistance [or drug resistance; or obvious equivalents like being insensitive to antibiotics
Luria broth [or lysogeny broth; or LB; or Lewis broth; or Luria–Bertani medium]
Petri dishes &lt;Silverman&gt;
Answer the following about main-sequence stars, for 10 points each.
Main-sequence stars occupy a boomerang-shaped region of an HR diagram, which plots a star's spectral type against its visual magnitude, a measure of this value of a star. This quantity is proportional to luminosity, the amount of energy emitted by a star.
After a star consumes all of its hydrogen in the triple-alpha process, it will become a red giant and emit ions in the form of this structure. William Huggins found one of these structures called the Cat's Eye.
The final phase of a main-sequence star's life is to eventually become one of these objects. These theoretical objects are stellar remnants that do not emit any light or energy, hence their color.
brightness [accept word forms]
planetary nebula[prompt on nebula; prompt on emission nebula; do not accept or prompt on "protoplanetary nebula" or "protoplanetary disc"]
black dwarf[prompt on dwarf] &lt;Jose&gt;
Structural analysis of these entities is often carried out using an equation named for Euler and Bernoulli. For 10 points each:
Give this term for a structural element that can bear a load applied laterally to its axis based on its ability to resist bending. A common example of them increases its second moment of area, and thus its stiffness, by using an I-shaped cross section.
The Euler–Bernoulli beam equation includes a term for the elastic modulus, which is equal to the ratio of these two forces on a material. One of these forces represents the force applied to a material, and the other represents the resulting deformation.
One can minimize bending of a horizontal beam by placing supports at the points named for this English physicist and astronomer, who also lends his name to the bright region in the center of the diffraction pattern produced by light passing through a circular aperture.
beams
stressAND strain[accept answers in either order]
George Biddell Airy[accept Airypoints or the Airydisk] &lt;Carson&gt;
Peter and Rosemary Grant observed the evolution of this body part over a single generation in response to a drought in the 1980s. For 10 points each:
Name these body parts. In the textbook example of adaptive radiation, these features changed in size and shape in response to the available food supply, leading to the evolution of Geospiza fortis and Geospiza conirostris.
Peter and Rosemary Grant conducted their studies on Daphne Major, an island in this archipelago. Adaptations of finch beaks between different islands in this archipelago helped Darwin formulate natural selection.
The woodpecker finch, another Galapagos bird, engages in this specialized foraging behavior. New Caledonian crows engage in this behavior to feed on grubs and spread it through social learning. A description is fine.
finch beaks [or bills; or rostrums; or rostra]
GalapagosIslands
tooluse [or specific examples of tools, like using a twigor using a cactus spineto stab or prod food] &lt;Grames&gt;
The output of this technique is analyzed by looking at the relative heights of the base peak, symbolized <em>M</em>, and all the peaks around it, which are labelled <em>M</em>-plus-one, <em>M</em>-minus-one, and so on. For 10 points each:
Name this technique. Its output is a histogram where m-over-z is on the x-axis and percent abundance is on the y-axis.
The base peak on the mass spectrum corresponds to the molecular ion, which has this net charge, since it has lost an electron. In solution, alkali metals like sodium acquire this net charge.
When determining an unknown organic molecule's structure, this useful piece of information roughly equals the abundance of the M-plus-one peak divided by 1.1. This number is multiplied by two when calculating a molecule's index of hydrogen deficiency. A description is fine.
mass spectrometry[or mass spec; or mass spectroscopy; or MS]
plus-one[or one-plus; prompt on one]
numberof carbonatoms in the molecule [or number of carbons; or obvious equivalents] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Answer the following about John von Neumann's <strong>(NOY-mahn's)</strong> work as it relates to computer science, for 10 points each.
He developed an algorithm that performs this task by recursively merging two lists. The naive algorithm for performing this task of organizing data "bubbles" elements through a list repeatedly until no swaps have been made.
He developed a computer architecture in which this operation of retrieving an instruction to put into a pipeline causes a bottleneck, since it uses the same bus as many other operations. This operation is usually followed by a "decode" step.
John von Neumann and Stanislaw Ulam created cellular automata, in which entries in a grid can be in "on" or "off" states. One such automaton is this so-called "game" created by John Conway.
sorting [accept mergesortor bubblesort]
fetchoperation [or instruction fetching]
Game of Life&lt;Jose&gt;
The biopharmaceutical industry uses a variety of unconventional purification techniques. For 10 points each:
Drug formulation often involves adding an effector of this process, the aggregation of particles in a colloid into solid clumps. Clarifying agents like aluminum are used to induce this process.
The last step in many polishing operations for vaccines is this process, in which water is sublimated away from a sample at very low temperatures and pressures, leaving just a purified solid product.
You definitely won't see pharma companies using this technique, since proteins don't respond well to being repeatedly boiled and condensed. This separations process is more often used to fractionate gasoline or purify ethanol.
flocculation [or word forms; or coagulation; or word forms]
lyophilization [or freeze-drying; or cryo-desiccation; prompt on drying; prompt on desiccation or word forms]
distillation [or fractional distillation] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Answer the following about the illustrious career of mathematician Ernst Zermelo, for 10 points each.
Zermelo's well-ordering theorem allows for the use of the transfinite form of this technique in set theory proofs. The regular form of this technique, which applies to finite ordinal numbers, seeks to prove that some property that is true for n in a base case is also true for n-plus-one in a namesake step.
According to this controversial statement in set theory, a transversal set, which contains exactly one element of each member of a collection of mutually disjoint nonempty sets, can always be constructed. It is often attached to Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory.
An equivalent formulation of the axiom of choice is Zorn's lemma, which states that if every chain of a nonempty partially ordered set has this property, then that set has a maximal element. For finite sets, the supremum (soo-PREE-mum) is defined as the smallest value that has this relation to the set.
mathematical induction [or inductive proof]
the axiom of choice [or AC]
upper bound [accept answers like the set being bounded above; do NOT accept "maximal" element or "maximum", as the supremum does not need to be a member of the set and the maximum does] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
Under certain initial conditions, the "swinging" variant of this setup can experience unusual periodic or collision orbits. For 10 points each:
Name this device consisting of two weights, usually of unequal mass, connected by an ideal massless string hung over an ideal massless pulley.
One can derive a system of equations for the acceleration of an Atwood machine by using this basic law of classical mechanics, which in its simplest form states that mass is equal to force times acceleration.
The acceleration equation can be substituted back into one of the force equations to determine the tension in the system, which is equal to little g times this function of the two masses.
Atwood's machine
Newton's second law of motion [prompt on partial answer]
harmonic mean [prompt on mean] &lt;Carson&gt;
These laws of propositional logic can be used to establish the equivalence of search criteria using NOT, AND, and OR. For 10 points each:
Name these rules of inference that can be stated set-theoretically as "the complement of the union of A and B is equal to the intersection of A-complement and B-complement," and "the complement of the intersection of A and B is equal to the union of A-complement and B-complement."
De Morgan's laws feature prominently in mathematical logic and the branch of algebra described by this adjective. This adjective, based on the name of an English mathematician, also names a data type in many programming languages that evaluates only to true or false.
The Boolean Satisfiability problem is [this complexity class]-complete. A famous unsolved problem in complexity theory asks whether every problem in this complexity class can be proven in polynomial time.
De Morgan's laws
boolean
NP [or NP-complete; or nondeterministic polynomial time; do NOT accept or prompt on "polynomial" or "non-polynomial" or "P"] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
In one apocryphal story, a follower of Pythagoras who revealed this result to the general public was forcibly drowned at sea. For 10 points each:
Name this result that puzzled the Pythagoreans after observing the hypotenuse of a right triangle with legs of length one because they believed that all numbers could be expressed in terms of whole numbers and their ratios. One of the most common methods of proving this result by contradiction is to set the ratio of two coprime integers p and q equal to a certain value.
Because pi is transcendental, this ancient Greek conundrum was proven to actually be impossible. It involves constructing a shape that is equal in area to a given circle using only a straightedge and compass.
Underwood Dudley wrote a book about the cranks who mailed him letters asserting that another impossible ancient Greek problem, which involves doing this action to an arbitrary angle with only compass and straightedge, was in fact possible.
square root of 2 is irrational [or obvious equivalents; prompt on the existence of irrationality or similar answers thereof]
squaring the circle [or circle squaring]
trisecting an angle [accept equivalents like trisectors] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
This process can be used to infer the size of particles in solution by measuring the photon autocorrelation time when light is shined through the solution. For 10 points each:
Name this process that generally refers to any deflection of light when it collides with matter. Types of this process are named for Raleigh, Compton, and Raman.
In this general type of scattering process, the incoming photon's wavelength is smaller than the wavelength of the scattered photon, since some energy is lost. The wavelength difference is called a Stokes shift.
The Klein–Nishina formula sets the Stokes shift equal to the Compton wavelength times this function of the scattering angle theta. A version of the small-angle approximation estimates this two-term expression as theta-squared over two.
scattering [or word forms]
inelastic light scattering
1 minus cosine theta [or 1 minus cos theta; or mathematical equivalents] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Thin slices of carbonized Japanese bamboo were the secret ingredient in one of the first popular devices of this kind. For 10 points each:
Identify this invention, less famously attributed to Britain's Joseph Swan. It improved on the intense "arc" varieties and eventually drove many gas companies out of business.
This man conducted an exhaustive search for the best filament for the incandescent light bulb. This "Wizard of Menlo Park" also pioneered recording sounds and motion pictures.
The Edison Botanic Research Corp. conducted thousands of experiments to find an alternative to this product. Waldo Semon came up with a synthetic form of this material called Ameripol during World War II. It's not syrup, but the natural form of this material is obtained via tapping.
incandescent light bulb
Thomas Alva Edison
natural rubber [or India rubber; or caoutchouc] &lt;Bentley&gt;
An example of this type of mechanism is the activation of fruit ripening in response to ethene gas, a process that in turn produces more ethene. For 10 points each:
Name this common biological mechanism in which disturbances are amplified. It can be diagrammed as "A activates B, which in turn activates A".
Negative feedback loops, on the other hand, are crucial to maintaining this property, which is the human body's ability to maintain relatively constant operation despite changes in external factors like temperature or diet.
In systems biology, networks diagrams represent positive regulation or activation with an arrow, but use this symbol to represent repression or inhibition. A description is acceptable.
positive feedback loop [or positive feedback; prompt on feedback]
homeostasis [or word forms]
bar-headed line [or bar-headed arrow; or other descriptions of the symbol ⊣ in any orientation; accept anything suggesting a T-shape or two perpendicular lines] &lt;Silverman&gt;
The Clausius–Clapeyron equation is essentially the van 't Hoff equation, but the log of equilibrium constant is replaced by the log of the normalized form of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this property which, for water at room temperature, equals about 24 torr.
Traditionally, the vapor pressure in the Clausius–Clapeyron equation is normalized either to one bar or one of these units. At this pressure, a liquid boils at its normal boiling point. You are currently experiencing roughly this much pressure.
The Clausius–Clapeyron equation is derived using a Maxwell relation relating "dP dT" to a derivative involving these two other quantities. The differentials of these two extensive quantities appear in the definition of internal energy.
vapor pressure [or saturation pressure; or P-sat; or P-star; prompt on partial answer; prompt on P]
one atmosphere [or atmospheric pressure; or one atm; or P-atm]
entropy AND volume [or S AND V; or molar entropy AND molar volume] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Danny Cohen's paper "On the Holy Wars and a Plea for Peace" introduced this computing term, which is an allusion to the wars over the proper way to crack an egg in <em>Gulliver's Travels</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, the order of the representation of bytes in the memory of a computer.
This company's x86 processors use the little-endian format, which is why the "convention" named for this company is synonymous with little-endianness. This corporation is the largest manufacturer of microprocessors.
To change endianness, a program often applies a bitwise shift operation. In the C programming language, that operation is written using two of these symbols, and these symbols are also used to write the insertion and extraction operators when sending data to cout (C-out).
endianness [accept big-endianness or little-endianness]
Intel Corporation [or Intel Convention]
greater than [or less than; or angle brackets; accept answers of both greater than and less than operators] &lt;Jose&gt;
The distance travelled by an object undergoing this type of motion varies with the square root of time. For 10 points each:
Name this type of motion in which an object's path is completely stochastic. Diffusion and Brownian motion are often modelled as this sort of motion if there is no chemical gradient.
If no energy is input, the driving force for random walk is this law of thermodynamics, which states that entropy will always increase in an isolated system.
The probability that a random walker is at any given coordinate at a given time has this functional form. The wavefunction of a free particle also has this functional form, which can be represented mathematically as the exponential of a negative variable squared.
random walk [prompt on partial answer; prompt on random process; prompt on Wiener process]
Second Law of Thermodynamics
Gaussian function [or Gaussian distribution] &lt;Silverman&gt;
In a design inspired by biology, most industrial heat exchangers operate in this configuration. For 10 points each:
Name this configuration in which heat and mass transfer between two streams is maximized by having the streams flow in opposite directions. A classic example of it is how the driving force for osmosis is multiplied in the two branches of the loop of Henle (HEN-lee).
The countercurrent multiplier in the loop of Henle relies on the fact that cells in the ascending limb do not express the class I type of these membrane proteins, which are overexpressed in the tubules upon stimulation by vasopressin.
Countercurrent exchange is also used in these organs in fish, where blood flows opposite the direction of motion. As a result, gas exchange in these organs' lamellae (luh-MELL-ay) is optimized.
countercurrent configuration [or countercurrent mechanism; or countercurrent multiplication]
aquaporins [or AQP-1; prompt on water channels]
gills &lt;Silverman&gt;
Dorothy Hodgkin used this technique to obtain atomic-level resolution of protein structure. For 10 points each:
Name this analytical technique that determines the distance between atomic planes in an ordered sample by observing the spacing of interference fringes according to Bragg's law.
Bragg's law relates the spacing of the interference maxima to this distance symbolized lambda, which is usually around a nanometer for an X-ray.
Nowadays, crystallography is being replaced as a method of determining protein structures by this technique, which doesn't require any finicky crystallization techniques. Instead, it relies on measuring the number of particles that pass through a thin sample slice at the temperature of liquid ethane.
X-ray crystallography [or X-ray diffraction; or XRD; or protein crystallography]
wavelength
cryoelectron microscopy [or cryo-EM; or cryogenic electron microscopy; or cryogenic EM; or cryogenic transmission electron microscopy; or cryogenic TEM; or cryo-transmission electron microscopy; or cryo-TEM; prompt on electron microscopy; prompt on transmission electron microscopy; prompt on EM or TEM or microscopy] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Anadromous fish like salmon live most of their lives in this type of water, but won't breed in it; eels do the opposite. For 10 points each:
Name this type of water which makes up the majority of water on Earth.
Although mangrove trees can't survive in pure salt water, they do form forests in this type of water, which is found in estuaries and is slightly less saline than seawater.
Sharks survive in very saline water by achieving a very high blood osmolarity due to a high concentration of this compound. In mammals, this one-carbon compound is formed when arginase hydrolyzes arginine's side chain. It is also often used to denature proteins.
saltwater [or saline water]
brackish water
urea [do not accept or prompt on "urine"] &lt;Grames&gt;
The Young–Laplace equation balances the pressure force with this other force to maintain the integrity of a soap bubble. For 10 points each:
Name this force that arises because molecules at an interface experience unbalanced cohesive intermolecular attractions since they are no longer surrounded by other molecules.
Surface tension therefore explains the formation of this curved structure at the surface of a liquid.
The height to which a column of liquid rises in a capillary equals the pressure across the meniscus, which is given by the Young–Laplace equation, divided by the product of what two variables?
surface tension [or tension force; prompt on surface forces]
meniscus [or menisci]
fluid density AND gravitational acceleration [or rho AND g; or density AND little g; or density AND acceleration due to gravity; do not accept or prompt on answers involving "big G" or "gravitational constant"] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Richard Feynman famously remarked upon generations of scientists failing to point out an error in this experiment by discarding real data points that were too far from the original value. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment conducted by Robert Millikan that still got pretty close to the true value of the elementary charge by suspending the namesake objects in an electric field.
Millikan's error was a severe misestimation of the magnitude of this force, which, according to Stokes's law, is proportional to but oriented opposite a sphere's velocity.
Applying Stokes's law to the Einstein–Smoluchowski (small-oo-KOFF-ski) relationship yields the result that this quantity depends inversely on particle radius. This quantity is the proportionality constant between the gradient of concentration and the mass flux J.
Millikan oil drop experiment
drag [or air resistance; or air friction; prompt on friction]
mass diffusivity [or diffusion coefficient; do not accept or prompt on "diffusion"] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Packaging labels for transition metal salts like copper sulfate and cobalt chloride include the number of molecules of this compound that co-crystallized with the salt, separated from the formula by a single dot. For 10 points each:
Name this compound that is removed from a reaction using desiccants, also known as drying agents.
The simplest way to determine the water of crystallization for a given hydrate is to heat it up, measure the change in mass, then divide the difference by this integer, which is very close to the molecular weight of water in daltons.
However, if the water is covalently bonded to the transition metal, it forms this type of coordination complex, not a hydrate. These compounds are often Lewis acids.
water [or H2O]
18 [or eighteen]
metal aquo complexes &lt;Silverman&gt;
Name some ways of introducing mutations into DNA, for 10 points each.
One easy way is to just shine light from this part of the spectrum onto DNA. Melanomas are caused by overexposure to this energetic form of radiation.
Site-directed mutagenesis can be accomplished using PCR with one of these sequences that has been mutated. In general, this term refers to a short oligonucleotide that gets laid down at the initiation point for replication; replication of the lagging strand of DNA uses them too.
Genetic recombineering takes advantage of this process, in which a cell will spontaneously swap out parts of its genome for foreign DNA, provided that the swap site is flanked by regions of identical sequence. The efficiency of CRISPR gene editing usually depends on how efficient this step is.
ultraviolet light [or UV light]
primers
homologous recombination [or HR; or homology-directed recombination; or HDR; prompt on chromosomal crossover] &lt;Silverman&gt;
The maximum velocity change in ideal versions of these things can be found by multiplying the exhaust velocity by the natural log of the initial mass over the dry mass. For 10 points each:
Identify these things, the motion of which are governed by an equation named for Konstantin Tsiolkovsky (tsull-KOFF-ski).
Due to Earth's gravity, the energy cost of getting a rocket from Earth to this place is much greater than from getting a rocket from this place to the moon. Every non-Apollo human spaceflight has been in the low-earth form of this place.
This is the term for the measure of the total mass of a rocket that is used to launch the rocket versus what actually ends up in space. This fraction was 4.33 percent for the Saturn V (five) rocket.
rockets
orbit around the Earth
payload fraction &lt;Bentley&gt;
Information within the "relational" variety of these systems may be organized into tables with columns and rows. For 10 points each:
Name these programs that are often used to to store usernames and hashed passwords.
This language is often used to manipulate the contents of a relational database. It uses keywords such as "select," "from," "where," and "order" to display and modify data.
The NoSQL database MongoDB stores documents formatted in this language's "object notation" and allows queries written in this language. The recent ES6 specification of this language added the "const" and "let" keywords, "for-of" loops, and support for arrow functions.
databases [accept relational databases]
SQL (S-Q-L or "sequel") [or Structured Query Language]
JavaScript [or ECMAScript; prompt on JSON; do not accept or prompt on "Java"] &lt;Jose&gt;
Computer science is often defined as the study of these things. For 10 points each:
Name these step-by-step sets of instructions that output some result. Euclid's one is used to calculate prime factors, and a "binary search" one of these procedures rather efficiently finds an element from a list.
Algorithms are often expressed in this high-level description language, which resembles a programming language but uses a natural language to express its steps.
This man advocates for a natural-language approach to programming languages in his book A New Kind of Science. This developer of Mathematica also names an online "computational-knowledge" engine that can "integrate" functions through symbolic manipulation.
algorithms
pseudocode
Stephen Wolfram &lt;Jose&gt;
There's more than one way to write an equilibrium constant. For 10 points each:
The law of mass action equates the equilibrium constant to a ratio of component concentrations assessed by this metric. This common metric for concentration equals moles of solute over liters of the solution.
Technically, to keep units consistent, concentration should be replaced by this value, a dimensionless effective concentration symbolized lowercase a. Its namesake coefficient gamma measures intermolecular attractions in a liquid.
Transition state theory relies heavily on a prediction from the grand canonical ensemble that this quantity for each molecule can be substituted instead of molarity. In TST, it is usually symbolized Q and comes in translational, rotational, vibrational, and electronic components.
molarity [or molar concentration; do not accept or prompt on "molality" or "molal" concentration]
activity [or activity coefficient]
molecular partition function &lt;Silverman&gt;
A common method of determining the optical density of a cell culture involves measuring this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is measured by placing a layer of liquid between two pieces of glass and multiplying the sine of the critical angle at which light still transmits by 1.5, which is approximately glass's value for it.
The index of refraction equals the speed of light over this quantity for light in the liquid. Unlike a related value, this specific quantity is defined as just the wavenumber over the angular frequency.
If the angular frequency is independent of wavenumber, then the namesake relation for this process is that the group and phase velocities are equal. This process is the spreading of a ray of light into a rainbow when it passes through a prism.
index of refraction [or refractive index; or n]
phase velocity [prompt on velocity; prompt on speed of light]
dispersion [or dispersion relation] &lt;Silverman&gt;
According to the "swipe-card" model, this sense is actually based on the vibrational frequency of ligand binding, not the ligand's shape, so it could actually distinguish deuterated ligands. For 10 points each:
Name this sense that is regulated by the olfactory nerve.
If true, the swipe-card model would invalidate the more canonical mechanism for how these proteins work. Olfactory receptors and rhodopsin fall into this class of proteins which all have seven transmembrane helices and can act as guanine exchange factors.
Upon sensing an odor, receptor neurons in the olfactory mucosa pass the signal to a globular structure of this name in the olfactory bulb. More commonly, this term refers to the bundle of capillaries surrounded by Bowman's capsule.
sense of smell [or word forms; or scent; or word forms; prompt on olfaction]
G-protein coupled receptors [or GPCRs; do not accept or prompt on "G proteins"; prompt on membrane proteins; prompt on receptors]
glomerulus [or glomerular layer] &lt;Silverman&gt;
The so-called "warm" theory of this process posits that the era of radiation took place alongside this process to resolve the "graceful exit problem." For 10 points each:
Name this process proposed by Alan Guth (gooth), in which the space between particles of the universe increased at a rate that was faster than the speed of light.
Cosmic inflation is theorized to have occurred less than a microsecond after this event, in which the universe was born from a singularity. Fred Hoyle coined the two-word name for this event.
The Big Bang theory is an alternative to this theory of the universe's origin, which holds that matter is continuously added to it. Hoyle later proposed a "quasi-" form of this theory suggesting that the universe evolves through "mini-bangs."
cosmic inflation [accept warm inflation]
Big Bang
steady-state theory &lt;Jose&gt;
<em>Deinococcus radiodurans</em> has been engineered to reduce this element in wastewater treatment plants and at nuclear dump sites. For 10 points each:
Name this element, whose methyl- and dimethyl- compounds are the principal contributors to the bio·magnification effect, in which this toxic element concentrates in the upper levels of a food chain.
Bacterial bioremediation was coupled with generous helpings of the dispersant chemical Corexit in the aftermath of this 2010 event, which caused the death of hundreds of dolphins and pelicans in the Gulf of Mexico.
Many current bioremediation schemes focus on this bacterial genus, whose species putida (pyoo-TEE-dah) was the first organism to be patented since it degrades petroleum. The aeruginosa (ah-ROO-jin-oh-suh) species in this genus is an antibiotic-resistant pathogen.
mercury [or Hg]
2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill [or the BP oil spill; or the British Petroleum oil spill; or obvious equivalents]
Pseudomonas [or Pseudomonas putida; or Pseudomonas aeruginosa] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Consider a program that calculates the Fibonacci sequence by evaluating <em>f</em>-of-<em>x</em> equals <em>f</em>-of-<em>x</em>-minus-one plus <em>f</em>-of-<em>x</em>-minus-two, and setting <em>f</em>-of-one and <em>f</em>-of-two both equal to one. For 10 points each:
That program calculates the Fibonacci sequence using this technique in which a program calls itself.
Because the return address and arguments are stored in memory after each recursive call, the program may crash for large values of x since it will cause this structure to overflow.
A compiler might be able to optimize the program if it used this form of recursion, in which the recursive call is made after all other logic. Unfortunately, since the Fibonacci addition occurs after the recursion, the program does not have this property.
recursion [accept recursive program]
the call stack
tail recursion [or tail-recursive; or any answer with the word tail] &lt;Jose&gt;
Ampère's law reduces an equation governing these materials to just "del-squared <em>B</em> equals <em>B</em> over lambda-squared", where lambda is the London penetration depth. For 10 points each:
Name these materials that obey the Meissner effect and have zero resistance at low temperatures.
The Meissner effect is somewhat analogous to this classical law which states that currents are generated in a conductor to offset any sudden change in magnetic flux, except that it applies to any magnetic field.
In type II superconductors above the critical field strength, the Meissner effect breaks down, and the magnetic type of these systems form. In fluid mechanics, these systems lend their name to a quantity symbolized omega that is equal to the curl of the velocity field.
superconductors [or word forms]
Lenz's law [prompt on Faraday's Law of Induction]
vortices [or vortexes; or Abrikosov vortices] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Potassium oxalate is added to cell-free protein synthesis reactions to stimulate the formation of these bonds, which are normally formed in <em>E. coli</em> by Dsb <strong>(D-S-B)</strong> proteins. For 10 points each:
Name these covalent bonds that can be reduced in vitro by beta-mercaptoethanol and DTT, causing denaturation of most proteins.
Molecular crowding agents like PEG are often added to cell-free reactions to simulate the high viscosity of this substance, the gel-like substance in which enzymatic reactions normally take place inside a cell.
To sustain transcription and translation, cell-free reactions must be supplied with an energy source, such as this derivative of arginine, which serves as a reservoir for high-energy phosphates in the muscles and brain by interconverting with ATP.
disulfide bonds
cytoplasm [or cytosol]
creatine phosphate [do not accept or prompt on "creatinine"] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Answer some questions about sustainability, for 10 points each.
A common way of quantifying a person's environmental impact is this measure, often expressed as the amount of land it would take to sustain resource use. This term can be used to describe the carbon emissions caused by a person's activities.
The environmental impact of producing a good or service can be quantified by this technique, which measures all impacts from extracting raw materials, to processing and distribution, to disposal.
Many life-cycle analyses attempt to determine impacts caused by release of these gases, which include methane and carbon dioxide. Because these gases absorb and emit thermal infrared radiation, they trap heat and cause climate change.
ecological footprint [or environmental footprint; accept answers like carbon footprint or water footprint]
life-cycle analysis [or life-cycle assessment; or LCA]
greenhouse gases &lt;Kothari&gt;
This substance is produced through pedogenesis. For 10 points each:
Name this mixture of dirt, organic matter, and water that is used to grow plants. Specific examples of this substance include loam and brunizem.
Soil is considered to be the portion of this material that can support life. This term refers to any form of dust that is produced by the weathering of pre-existing material, and it is often used to describe the dust on the Moon.
Soil science is often divided into two disciplines: pedology, which is the study of soil as a natural system, and this other branch, in which soil is studied in its ecological context.
soil
regolith [accept lunar regolith]
edaphology &lt;Jose&gt;
Because this post-translational modification must be done to monoclonal antibodies for them to show activity, they cannot be made recombinantly in bacteria. For 10 points each:
Name this protein modification that takes place on oxygen residues in the Golgi apparatus and nitrogen residues in the rough ER.
Partially glycosylated proteins are transported between the Golgi and rough ER encapsulated in one of these small liposomal structures that bud off from membranes and transport molecules around cells.
George Emil Palade (JOR-jay ay-MEEL pah-LAH-day) figured out the mechanism of the secretory system using a pulse-chase experiment, in which amino acids modified in this way are first incorporated into a cell, then washed out. Melvin Calvin discovered the mechanism of photosynthesis using CO2 modified in this way.
glycosylation [prompt on addition of sugars or similar answers]
vesicles
radiolabelled [or radioactively labelled; or isotopically labelled; or they are radioactive; or C-14 labelled; or H-3 labelled; or tritium labelled; or obvious equivalents] &lt;Silverman&gt;
This dimensionless quantity is higher for fuels with more straight chains, and thus longer ignition delay times. For 10 points each:
Name this property, which is a measure of a fuel's resistance to an uncontrolled release of energy or combustion.
Toluene, alcohol and ferrocene are typically used as agents that are added to gasoline to prevent this phenomenon, the tendency to pre-ignite or combust before a spark.
This plant is often used to make ethanol that is added to create gasohol. You can also distill this crop to make bourbon whiskey.
octane number
knocking
corn [or maize] &lt;Jose&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about generating a photorealistic scene in computer graphics:
After building a model, an image may be produced using this technique, in which the namesake objects are cast from the image plane to determine what physical phenomena affect the scene.
Ray tracing is one method of performing this task of converting scene data into an image. In another context, this is the process of converting code in a markup language, such as HTML, into a visual format.
Lens flare is often artificially created as an example of these kind of "effects" whose production is valued in the digital film industry. Rhythm Hues and Studios produced them for Life of Pi and The Golden Compass.
ray tracing [accept word forms such as ray trace; prompt on tracing or word forms thereof; prompt on ray casting]
rendering
special effects [accept visual effects] &lt;Jose&gt;
One of these proteins labeled "G" is named for the fact that it is activated by cyclic GMP. For 10 points each:
Name these enzymes which activate most downstream signaling cascades by phosphorylating a wide array of target proteins.
In the MAP kinase signal transduction pathway, KSR acts as one of these protein complexes, which greatly speed up the response to a signal by attaching themselves to many of the downstream effectors.
Although protein hormones require complex signal transduction pathways, these lipid hormones don't, since they can bypass the cell membrane. These compounds contain four fused rings, and examples of them include testosterone and estrogen.
protein kinases
scaffold proteins [or scaffolds]
steroids [or steroid hormones] &lt;Jose&gt;
The "one-over-f" or "flicker" form of this phenomenon is sometimes called its "pink" version, because its power spectral density is greater at the pink end of the visible spectrum than at the blue end of the visible spectrum. For 10 points each;
Name this phenomenon that can be caused by thermal fluctuations or quantization of charge. This phenomenon is a random fluctuation in an electronic signal.
Noise is said to be "white" when its power spectrum is independent of this quantity. The speed of a light wave equals this quantity times wavelength.
When averaging several electronic measurements, the signal-to-noise ratio increases with this function of the number of measurements.
noise
frequency
square root or one-half power &lt;Busse&gt;
Hugh Huxley proposed that the prevailing theory for how this process works should be called the "swinging bridge" model. For 10 points each:
Name this process. During this process, a flexible protein "head" crosslinks the target filament, then slides past it in a "power stroke" driven by ATP hydrolysis.
Motor neurons begin the pathway for muscle contraction upon stimulation by this secondary messenger, which enters cells through special voltage-gated channels after an action potential reaches its terminus.
Muscle contraction is involuntary in this non-striated muscle tissue, which makes up internal organs and the walls of blood vessels. It often has less myosin than cardiac or skeletal muscle.
muscle contraction [or muscle relaxation; or muscle movement; or obvious equivalents; however, prompt on partial answers that don't mention muscles]
calcium [or Ca2+]
smooth muscle tissue &lt;Jose&gt;
G.S. Hartley wrote about the formation of these structures in his thrilling treatise <em>Paraffin Chain Salts</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these systems which only form when they are both above a namesake critical concentration and the Krafft temperature. These elliptical or spherical collections of lipids form in water, with their hydrophobic tails pointing inwards.
In solvents with this property, a "reverse micelle," in which the hydrophilic head aggregates toward a center, while the hydrophobic tails point outward, may form. This kind of solvent is exemplified by oil, but not water.
Some non-polar drugs are delivered to the body in this kind of structure, a kind of micelle-like vesicle with a lipid bilayer.
micelles
non-polar solvent [accept word forms of non-polar]
liposome &lt;Jose&gt;
This function is constructed by integrating the probability mass or density function. For 10 points each:
Name this probability function, which gives the likelihood that an event occurs with a value less than or equal to the input.
The cumulative distribution function will have discontinuities in it if the underlying random variable is of this type. This opposite of "continuous" describes certain branches of mathematics, such as number theory.
A random variable is a function that assigns a probability to this set of all possible outcomes. This set is often denoted with a capital omega, and for flipping a coin twice, it consists of "heads, heads;" "tails, tails;" "heads, tails;" and "tails, heads."
cumulative distribution function [accept cdf]
discrete [accept word forms]
sample space &lt;Jose&gt;
The principle named for these objects states that the information in a volume of space can be encoded on the surface of the space. For 10 points each:
Name these two dimensional objects that contain images which appear three dimensional.
Holograms were originally created and viewed using light with this property, though rainbow holograms can be viewed in regular white light. Light with the temporal and spatial types of this property comes from a common source with a common wavelength.
Holograms are created using a split beam of coherent light. This name is given to the beam of light that does not bounce off the object being imaged.
holographs [or holograms]
coherence [or coherent]
reference beam &lt;Reinstein&gt;
For a zeroth order reaction, one of these laws states that <em>r</em> is equal to <em>k</em>, where <em>k</em> is a namesake constant. For 10 points each:
Name these kinds of laws, which usually express the desired quantity as a function of species concentration raised to an empirically determined exponent.
Though it is common to express the rate law as a function of the time derivative of the concentration of the species, it can also be expressed in this form, such that the time t is a function of the concentration. For a first-order equation, the half-life is expressed in this form.
This method helps evaluate second order kinetics by adding a ton of reactant A and treating it as a constant, although it is necessary to create a new rate constant typically labeled k prime.
rate laws
integrated rate law [accept word forms indicating integration or integral form]
pseudo first order kinetics &lt;Jose&gt;
One of the purposes of Super-Kamiokande in Japan is to determine whether or not protons decay. For 10 points each:
Super-Kamiokande was built to detect these leptons whose flavors are electron, muon, and tau. Takaaki Kajita shared the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work showing they oscillate between flavors, which means that these particles have mass.
The detectors at Super-Kamiokande use detectors named for this effect in which particles travel faster than the speed of light in the medium they are in.
The discovery of proton decay could support one of these classes of theories that are a step towards a theory of everything. These theories differ from a theory of everything because they do not involve gravity.
neutrinos
Cherenkov
Grand Unified Theory [or GUT] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
During osmoregulation, aldosterone promotes retention of this element. For 10 points each:
Name this element, three atoms of which are transported out of a cell by an ATPase pump that exchanges it with potassium.
After glomerular filtration, sodium ions are first reabsorbed in this part of the nephron. This part of the nephron is followed by the descending loop of Henle, which does not allow any water to pass through.
Aldosterone is synthesized from this molecule, whose own biosynthetic pathway contains mevalonate and squalene intermediates.
sodium [or Na/S+/S]
proximal tubule [prompt on tubule]
cholesterol &lt;Zhang&gt;
The shunting yard algorithm converts formulas written in infix notation to this other format. For 10 points each:
Identify this system in which every operand in a mathematical expression is inputted first, and every operator is inputted second.
Some of Hewlett-Packard's devices of this kind use reverse Polish notation. There are "scientific" and "graphing" types of these tools.
Reverse polish notation does not require the use of these symbols if the arity of each operator is fixed. In another context, these symbols are used to express intervals that are open.
reverse Polish notation [accept RPN; accept postfix notation; do not accept or prompt on "Polish notation"]
calculators
parenthesis [or parentheses] &lt;Jose&gt;
Some stars take the Hayashi track to join the main sequence, which is visually depicted on one of these diagrams. For 10 points each:
Name these scatterplots, which are used to classify stars. They are named for a Danish and an American astronomer.
On an H–R diagram, this quantity is plotted on the vertical axis. The graph uses the apparent, and not the bolometric form of this quantity.
RR Lyrae, Cepheid Variables and ZZ Ceti stars all lie on this vertical component of an H–R diagram, whose name indicates that it is filled with pulsating stars.
Hertzsprung–Russell diagrams [or H–R diagram]
luminosity [prompt on magnitude]
instability strip &lt;Jose&gt;
This quantity is equal to m v squared over r. For 10 points each:
Name the acceleration that causes uniform circular motion. This acceleration is normal, or perpendicular, to the motion.
If an object in circular motion changes its speed, this name is given to the acceleration associated with that change. In general, this adjective describes any acceleration that changes the speed of an object without changing its direction.
For a system in a rotating reference frame, the magnitude of the force is equal to the magnitude of the cross product of the angular velocity and linear velocity, times mass, times this constant.
centripetal acceleration
tangential acceleration
2 [accept negative 2]&lt;Reinstein&gt;
Though not tears, this substance contains activate hydrolases like lysozyme, which kills bacteria. For 10 points each:
Name this watery substance produced by the parotid, sublingual, and submandibular glands, which helps in the digestion of food.
This hydrolase found in saliva is critical for breaking down starches into glucose. It was the first enzyme to be characterized.
Metabolism of lipids, on the other hand, is trickier, and requires both lipases and these compounds, most of which are derivatives of cholic acid. These compounds, which are formed by oxidizing cholesterol, allow fatty acids to aggregate into micelles.
saliva
alpha-amylase
bile acids [or bile salts; prompt on bile; prompt on emulsifiers or surfactants] &lt;Jose&gt;
Sodium ethoxide reacts with ethyl chloride to form diethyl ether in an SN2 Williamson synthesis. For 10 points each:
In the reaction, sodium ethoxide uncharacteristically acts as a nucleophile, rather than this type of compound. These compounds accept protons from solution in the Bronsted-Lowry definition.
The Williamson synthesis usually doesn't involve a Walden inversion because the substrate has this property. Molecules with this property are optically inactive.
In the reaction, the electrons on the ethoxide attack this kind of orbital for the carbon-chlorine bond. On a molecular orbital bonding diagram, they are the orbitals highest in energy.
bases [or Bronsted-Lowry bases]
achiral [or not chiral]
antibonding orbitals [or antibonding sigma orbital; prompt on sigma star orbital] &lt;Silverman&gt;
In her book <em>This Changes Everything</em>, Naomi Klein argues capitalist solutions are incapable of addressing this problem. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon of rising average temperatures as a result of man-made carbon emissions.
One debate in climate change economics concerns the proper value for this quantity, the rate at which future payoffs are reduced in present value. It is often set equal to the interest rate.
A proposed solution for limiting carbon is this system of giving producers a fixed amount of carbon allowances, which they can exchange. By changing the number of allowances, the government can raise the private cost of emission to match the social cost.
global climate change [or global warming]
discount rate
cap and trade [prompt on emission trading] &lt;Bailey&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about computational complexity:
This class contains all problems whose solutions are verifiable in polynomial time on a deterministic Turing machine. It is an open question as to whether or not it is equal to its non-deterministic counterpart, NP.
The computational complexity class BPP contains problems, such as polynomial identity testing, which are solvable by one of these algorithms in polynomial time. These algorithms, such as the Metropolis Hastings method, sample from an unknown distribution.
The first problem shown to be NP-complete asks whether or not one of these formulas can be satisfied. In these formulas, variables can be assigned a value of one or zero.
P
Monte Carlo algorithm [or Monte Carlo method]
Boolean formula [or Boolean function] &lt;Jose&gt;
Mercury, the element extracted from cinnabar, is often added to a metal to create one of these mixtures called an amalgam. For 10 points each:
Name these solid solutions, exemplified by bronze or brass, which are mixtures of metals with another chemical element.
Some alloys have this desirable property of being easily deformed under tension, such as when they are pulled. This property allows a metal or alloy to be easily drawn out into wires.
After creating an alloy, this process cools it rapidly to achieve the ideal material properties, such as during the production of steel to retain hardness. This term also means the deactivation of leftover reactants in chemical reactions.
alloys
ductility [accept word forms such as ductile]
quenching &lt;Jose&gt;
Stephen Carpenter has conducted a number of whole-lake experiments on this phenomenon to demonstrate that it exhibits alternative stable states. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which excess nutrient inputs into aquatic systems cause algal blooms, which in turn result in hypoxia.
The main culprits in eutrophication are phosphorus and this element, which is fixed into ammonia or ammonium compounds by legume-associated rhizobia.
Eutrophication causes an initial increase in this ecosystem property, which equals the standing crop divided by the turnover rate. Its net value equals its gross value minus respiration.
eutrophication [or word forms]
nitrogen [or N]
primary productivity [or word forms; or net primary productivity or gross primary productivity; or NPP or GPP; prompt on productivity] &lt;Kothari&gt;
The Banach-Tarski paradox is fundamentally a paradox about this quantity, since the axiom of choice seems to allow one to repeatedly duplicate it. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is finite for Gabriel's Horn, even though it has an infinite surface area. For a pyramid, this property is equal to basal area times height divided by three.
This is the volume of the Gabriel's Horn on the standard Cartesian coordinate system. The solution of the Basel problem is this value squared divided by 6.
The function at the heart of the Basel problem is a special case of this function when s = 2. According to a certain hypothesis, all of the zeros of this function lie along a "critical line."
volume
pi
Riemann zeta function [prompt on Riemann function] &lt;Jose&gt;
In one equation, the reciprocal of this quantity is set equal to the refractive index minus one times the difference between the reciprocals of the radii of curvature. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. The power of an optical element is defined as the reciprocal of this quantity, which represents an object distance where the optical element will converge parallel input light beams to one point.
A convex one of these optical elements will focus light to a point behind it. These objects are contrasted with mirrors.
The power of a lens is often measured in these units. A lens with a value of N for power in these units brings light to the focus at 1 over N meters.
focal length [accept descriptive answers indicating this is the distance from an optical element to the focus or focal point]
lenses
diopters &lt;Busse&gt;
Identify the following about some well-preserved ancient humans, for 10 points each.
Scientists extracted two red blood cells from the arrow wound of this "iceman," making them the oldest intact blood cells ever recovered from a human. This man bore a pure copper axe, and was discovered in the Tyrolean Alps in 1991.
Ötzi is considered a "natural" object of this type. Artificial examples of these objects were produced after dehydrating the body, removing the organs, and performing other rituals by the Ancient Egyptians.
The Tollund Man and Koelbjerg Woman were natural mummies whose bodies were preserved by the anaerobic conditions of these wetlands.
Ötzi (URT-see) the Iceman [or Similaun Man; or the Man from Hauslabjoch; or Hauslabjoch mummy]
mummy
peat bogs &lt;Bentley&gt;
The blockbuster drug Humira was developed to combat this disease. For 10 points each:
Name this chronic autoimmune disorder, in which the body's immune system attacks joints, especially in the hands.
Specifically, rheumatoid arthritis leads to the inflammation of the membrane in this most common class of joint, in which a layer of cartilage separates the bones' articular surfaces and is bathed by a namesake fluid.
This class of synovial joint has the greatest free range of motion, since one bone's rounded surface articulates perfectly into the rounded depression of another bone. The shoulder and hip are the only two examples of these joints in the human body.
rheumatoid arthritis [or RA; prompt on arthritis]
synovial joints [or synovial membrane; or synovial fluid]
ball-and-socket joints &lt;Jose&gt;
IUPAC defines this quantity as the chemical potential of electrons in a solid. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that also equals the energy level that has a fifty percent chance of being occupied by an electron. At absolute zero, this quantity equals the highest electron energy level.
The Fermi level is in a narrow band gap in these materials that include germanium and gallium arsenide.
The Fermi level is in the middle of the band gap in these pure semiconductors that are undoped.
Fermi level
semiconductors
intrinsic semiconductor [or i-type] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about mathematical series:
A series is defined as the sum of the terms of one of these other lists. An example of them is the "Fibonacci" one.
The comparison test is used to show that a series whose partial sums are smaller than another series with this property will have this property as well. A series with this property has partial sums that tend towards a fixed number.
The sum of the series [read slowly] "1 over n [pause] minus 1 over n plus 1" is the simplest example of this type of series with a fixed number of terms for each partial sum. That's because the negative term of the nth term cancels with the positive term of the nth plus one term.
sequences [accept arithmetic sequences]
convergent series [accept convergence]
telescoping series [or telescoping sum] &lt;Jose&gt;
A water trap used in this experiment gradually turned pink, then dark red, over the course of a week. For 10 points each:
Name this 1952 experiment, devised as a test of a hypothesis developed by Alexander Oparin. It used electrodes to simulate lightning strikes in a gaseous mixture of water, methane, ammonia, and hydrogen.
Another theory of the origin of life is the "world" named for this macromolecule, which serves as an intermediate in the central dogma from DNA to protein, and may have existed first.
In March 2016, this biologist made headlines by announcing the creation of a synthetic microbe with fewer than 500 total genes. He founded Celera Genomics during the race for genome sequencing.
Urey–Miller experiment [or Miller–Urey experiment; or Urey experiment; or Miller experiment]
RNA [or ribonucleic acid]
John Craig Venter &lt;Jose&gt;
In 1999, this company successfully sued Vernon Hugh Bowman, an Indiana farmer who planted genetically modified seeds instead of using them for feed. For 10 points each:
Name this massive chemical company that also manufactures the herbicide Roundup.
A myth about Monsanto was that they once marketed seeds containing these kinds of genes, which makes it so that second generation offspring are always infertile. This kind of technology is generally illegal.
Many of the factories formerly run by Monsanto are now these kinds of sites, which are defined by the EPA as having a high amount of toxic pollutants. These locations were first defined by a 1980 act.
Monsanto
terminator genes [accept suicide seeds]
Superfund sites &lt;Jose&gt;
Fluoroquinolone drugs like ciprofloxacin inhibit the activity of these enzymes in bacteria. For 10 points each:
Name these enzymes which relieve the torsional strain of DNA caused by helicase during replication. Gyrase is a member of this family of enzymes.
At the replication fork, double-stranded DNA is separated by this enzyme into a leading strand and a lagging strand. It is often described as "unwinding" DNA.
After synthesis of the lagging strand, the RNA primers must be converted back into DNA. Besides the deoxygenated sugar backbone, the main difference between RNA and DNA is the replacement of uracil with this nucleic acid.
DNA topoisomerases
helicase
thymine [prompt on T] &lt;Zhang&gt;
The horizon problem asks how two different parts of this entity can be isotropic if its opposite parts couldn't have been near each other in the past. For 10 points each:
Name this large object, which originated from a single point according to the Big Bang model.
The universe, for the most part has this shape, since its critical density is almost equal to its energy density.
The so-called "fine-tuning" problem that asks why the universe is so flat was possibly solved by this physicist, who proposed the theory of cosmic inflation.
universe
flatness
Alan Guth &lt;Jose&gt;
The pre-Bötzinger complex governs this process in the reticular formation. For 10 points each:
Name this behavior which is controlled by the autonomic nervous system by two centers in the medulla and two centers in the pons.
Both the medulla and pons are found in this part of the brain, which connects the midbrain to the spinal cord. Ten of the cranial nerves begin in this structure.
The pre-Bötzinger complex is composed of these neurons, which are normally inhibitory in the CNS. In the PNS, these neurons are found in the middle of polysynaptic reflex arcs.
breathing [or word forms; or respiration; or word forms; or ventilation; or word forms; prompt on gas exchange]
brainstem
interneurons [prompt on relay neurons; prompt on connector neurons; prompt on local neurons] &lt;Jose&gt;
This quantity is higher for harmonics than it is for the fundamental tone. For 10 points each:
Name this rate of periodic motion measured in cycles per unit of time. If the time unit is seconds, then this quantity is measured in Hertz.
Analysis of overtones uses the transforms named for this Frenchman. The short-time version of those transforms is often the most useful one for that purpose.
When doing Fourier analysis, it is easy to combine sine and cosine functions because they have this property, due to the fact that the integral of sine x times cosine x equals zero.
frequency
Joseph Fourier
orthogonality &lt;Reinstein&gt;
The position of this highest-energy reaction coordinate is multiplied by the enthalpy of reaction in the Bell-Evans-Polanyi principle. For 10 points each:
Name this entity that roughly corresponds to the activation energy of a chemical reaction. On a potential energy surface, it corresponds to a saddle point.
If the structure of a transition state resembles these things, then the reaction will be predicted to be rapid and exothermic. The reaction equilibrium constant is equal to the product over this thing.
This equation, similar to the Arrhenius equation, is derived from transition state theory and gives the kinetics of a reaction. The derivation for it assumes that activated complexes are in a state of quasi-equilibrium with the reactants.
transition states
reactants [or starting materials; or obvious equivalents]
Eyring equation [accept Eyring–Polanyi equation] &lt;Jose&gt;
The conversion of succinate to fumarate in the Krebs cycle by succinate dehydrogenase is an example of one of these reactions accomplished using FAD. For 10 points each:
Name these reactions that dominate catabolism. In this sort of reaction, a compound loses electrons.
Succinate dehydrogenase spans the inner mitochondrial membrane but also has a catalytic domain in this part of the mitochondria, which is inside the inner membrane. It's where the Krebs cycle occurs.
Oddly, succinate dehydrogenase is strongly inhibited by this Krebs cycle intermediate, a four-carbon compound that condenses with acetyl-CoA in the first step to make citrate. Transamination of this compound forms aspartate.
oxidations [prompt on redox reactions]
mitochondrial matrix
oxaloacetate [or oxaloacetic acid] &lt;Gupta&gt;
The DSM-IV (D-S-M-four) stated that seasonal affective disorder was one of these disorders, but the DSM-V (D-S-M-five) reclassified it as major depressive episode with a seasonal pattern. For 10 points each:
Name these types of disorders, such as depression, which alters one's emotions.
Bursts of mania followed by bursts of melancholy or depression characterize this mood disorder, which is often treated with lithium compounds.
Theodule-Armand Ribot likely coined the name for this symptom of mood disorders, the inability to take pleasure in activities. Its name comes from the Greek for "without pleasure."
mood disorder
bipolar disorder [or bipolar affective disorder; prompt on manic-depressive disorder; do not accept or prompt on "depression."]
anhedonia &lt;Jose&gt;
This mathematician provided a negative solution to the Bridges of Königsberg problem, which asks if there is a way to cross all seven bridges of the namesake city once and end up at one's starting point. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss mathematician, whose namesake type of path visits every edge once.
In contrast to an Eulerian path, this type of path of a graph visits each vertex once and only once, with the possible exception of the start vertex.
Euler also proved this lemma which states that an even number of vertices will have an odd degree in an undirected graph. It is used in proofs of the mountain climbing problem.
Leonhard Euler (OY-ler)
Hamiltonian path [accept Hamiltonian cycle]
handshaking lemma [accept handshake lemma] &lt;Jose&gt;
In these organisms' life-cycles, an allantois surrounds an embryo that allows for the exchange of gases and nutrients. For 10 points each:
Name these organisms, which are named for the water-filled sacs that surround their young. They include reptiles, birds, and mammals.
These non-therian mammals, which include platypi and echidnas, have an amniotic egg rather than an amniotic membrane that surrounds the developing fetus.
On an evolutionary tree, amniotes are this kind of group, meaning that it contains both the most recent common ancestor to all species in the group and all of the ancestor's descendants.
amniotes
monotremes [or Monotremata]
monophyletic group [or word forms; or clades] &lt;Jose&gt;
A blackbody is a theoretical object that absorbs all radiant energy and emits energy ideally at all frequencies.
The law describing blackbody radiation is named for this German scientist who ushered in quantum mechanics when he developed the law by setting the ratio of energy to frequency to a constant that is now named for him. The constant is represented by a lower-case h.
When the Stefan–Boltzmann law is used to find the power of an actual object rather than an ideal object, it contains a constant for this quantity equal to the ratio of the radiation given off by the object divided by the radiation given off by an ideal blackbody.
When stated in terms of frequency, the coefficient in Planck's law states that the radiance of a blackbody is proportional to 2h over c squared times this power of the frequency, times a one over exponential term.
Max Planck [or Planck's law]
emissivity
third [or cubed] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
Answer the following about the medical geography of Africa, for 10 points each:
Peter Gould's book The Slow Plague discusses the spread of this disease in Subsaharan Africa. In Swaziland, more than a quarter of the population is affected with HIV, the virus that causes this syndrome.
The Ebola virus was named for one of these geographic features in the Congo, where it was first described. Yambuku, the village where the first outbreak of Ebola occurred in 1976, is nearby this kind of feature.
The vector for schistosomiasis (SHISS-toh-suh-MY-uh-sis) is a freshwater variety of these animals, and transfers bilharzia (bill-HART-see-uh) to humans when they swim in water. In antiquity, the saltwater Murex genus of these animals were harvested for Tekhelet (tuh-HELL-et) and similar products.
AIDS or Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
river [accept Ebola River]
snail [prompt on gastropods or other more general answers] &lt;Jose&gt;
This principle describing the speed of incompressible fluid flows can be derived from the conservation of energy. For 10 points:
Name this principle relating changes in speed to changes in pressure that is named for a Swiss scientist.
In one form of the equation of Bernoulli's principle, pressure is divided by this quantity. In another form, one of the terms is pressure, and the other terms have this quantity multiplied by one-half speed squared and by gravitational acceleration times height.
The quantity one-half density times speed squared is known as this type of pressure, the difference between stagnation pressure and static pressure.
Bernoulli's principle [or Bernoulli's equation]
density
dynamic pressure &lt;Reinstein&gt;
This idealized type of process can be represented as a rectangle on a <em>T</em>–<em>S</em> diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this thermodynamic cycle comprised of two isothermal and two adiabatic steps where a gas expands and contracts. It has the highest efficiency of any possible heat engine.
An adiabatic process has no change in this quantity, which is symbolized Q. The first law of thermodynamics gives the change in internal energy as the sum of changes in this quantity and work.
Let C denote the temperature of the cold reservoir and H denote the temperature of the hot reservoir. What is the formula for the efficiency of a Carnot engine?
Carnot cycle
heat
one minus C over H [or one minus C divided by H] &lt;Busse&gt;
In the U.S., these typically last for twenty years and are issued for "new" methods. For 10 points each:
Name this form of intellectual property. It would protect a company that has just devised a new form of manufacturing drugs, or an inventor who has just made a new device.
One of the requirements for a patent to be issued is that the invention has this property, meaning that "a person having ordinary skill in the art to which the claimed invention pertains" cannot easily reproduce the invention.
Once a patent expires, it enters into this "area," meaning that anyone can use or improve it without worry. Once copyrights expire, works enter into this "space."
patents
non-obviousness [prompt on inventive step]
public domain &lt;Jose&gt;
In molecular biology buffers, this compound is often added to sequester cations, preventing metal-dependent enzymes from functioning. For 10 points each:
Identify this molecule that chelates metal ions with its acetate groups and an amine backbone.
This molecule, whose oxygen atom has two lone pairs, is a bidentate ligand. This molecule has a bent geometry and is often called the universal solvent.
EDTA and water coordination complexes have this coordination number, also the number of fluorines bonded to uranium during isotope purification via gaseous diffusion.
EDTA [or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; or ethylenediaminetetraacetate]
water [or dihydrogen monoxide; or H2O]
six &lt;Jose&gt;
This structure contains hyaluronidase, which helps disperse cells in the corona radiata. For 10 points each:
Name this specialized vesicle, whose contents degrade the jelly coating that surrounds an egg cell.
The acrosome is found in the head of these cells. These cells are stored in the epididymis after being produced in the testes.
The fertilization process is often studied with the eggs and sperm of these animals, whose mouthparts were said by Aristotle to resemble a lantern. Declining sea otter populations have led these animals to wreak havoc on kelp forest ecosystems.
acrosome
sperm cell [or spermatozoa]
sea urchins [or Echinoidea] &lt;Zhang&gt;
Determining if a complex-free grammar is ambiguous is a problem in this class. For 10 points each:
Name this type of decision problem, in which it is impossible to construct an algorithm that will output an answer of "yes" or "no" for all inputs.
One of the most frequently cited undecidable problems, the halting problem, asks if a model named for this British computer scientist will terminate on a given input. A tape, a head, a state register, and a table comprise that model, this man's namesake "machine."
Yuri Matiyasevich showed that there is no Turing Machine that exists that could solve this problem universally. This problem asked if there existed an algorithm that could find solutions to all Diophantine equations.
undecidable problem [accept word forms of "undecidable"]
Alan Mathison Turing [accept Turing machine]
Hilbert's tenth problem &lt;Jose&gt;
These devices are important components of AC adapters, which are also known as AC/DC converters. For 10 points each:
Name these devices, often made from diodes, that convert alternating current into direct current.
AC adapters often also contain these devices with two coils of wire that can convert a low current with high voltage into a high current with low voltage.
Transformers often have iron cores because iron has a high value for this quantity, the reciprocal of reluctance, which measures the ability of a material to contain a magnetic field relative to an external magnetic field.
rectifiers
transformers
magnetic permeability &lt;Reinstein&gt;
Smalltalk is a language that is considered to be "purely" in this style. For 10 points each:
Name this programming paradigm, whose namesake structures are instantiations of classes. This paradigm emphasizes the encapsulation of data and polymorphism.
Object-oriented programming often allows for this feature, in which a new class is derived from a base class. Virtual functions can be overridden as part of this feature.
In C++, this keyword is often used on variables to indicate that in the base class, the variable may be public, but it must be private in all derived classes.
object-oriented programming [or OOP]
inheritance
protected [do not accept or prompt on any other answer, including word forms.] &lt;Jose&gt;
One example of these mixtures consists of lidocaine and prilocaine, which is often marketed as EMLA and used as an anesthetic. For 10 points each:
Name these mixtures of two more substances, in which the substances are combined in a ratio such that the melting point has been minimized.
The eutectic point of a system is often illustrated on one of these diagrams. The point at which solid, liquid, and gas states meet on one of these diagrams is called the triple point.
For a non-reactive mixture, the degrees of freedom of a mixture is equal to the number of components, minus the number of phases, plus two, according to the scientist's phase rule.
eutectic systems [or eutectic mixtures]
phase diagrams
Josiah Gibbs [accept the Gibbs phase rule] &lt;Jose&gt;
Name some ways to fully repress protein expression, for 10 points each:
Capecchi, Evans, and Smithies won a Nobel for showing how to fully knock out a gene in this common laboratory rodent, which has the scientific name Mus musculus.
In this pathway to reduce expression of a gene, miRNAs and siRNAs interfere with specific mRNAs in the cytoplasm and either cause translational inhibition or direct cleavage. It is mediated by the RISC complex.
Another knockdown method uses the "hammerhead" type of these molecules, which cleaves phosphodiester bonds, including those within its own sequence. These macromolecules were discovered by Tom Cech and Sidney Altman.
laboratory mouse [do not accept or prompt on "rat"]
RNA interference [or RNAi]
ribozymes &lt;Silverman&gt;
Most proteins destined for this organelle unusually have a localization signal near the C-terminus. For 10 points each:
Name this organelle, which oxidizes long-chain fatty acids and has high concentrations of catalase to break down reactive oxygen species.
Another cellular mechanism to break down hydrogen peroxide involves redox coupling between glutathione and this compound. This reducing agent is required for hydroxylating lysine during collagen synthesis.
Cells in this organ have a particularly high concentration of peroxisomal catalase due to its role in detoxifying alcohol and other substances in the body. Excessive alcohol consumption can lead to cirrhosis and scarring of this organ.
peroxisomes
ascorbate [or ascorbic acid; or Vitamin C]
liver &lt;Zhang&gt;
This model's inability to model blackbody radiation led to the ultraviolet catastrophe. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem stating that molecules in thermal equilibrium have equal amounts of energy in each degree of freedom.
The equipartition theorem explains why this number is multiplied by Boltzmann's constant times absolute temperature to calculate the average kinetic energy of molecules.
In 1907, Albert Einstein claimed that his theory explaining this motion of a particle suspended in a fluid could be used to test the equipartition theorem. The experiment Einstein proposed was successfully carried out by Mark Raizen in 2010.
equipartition theorem
3/2 [or 1 ½; or 1.5]
Brownian motion &lt;Reinstein&gt;
Answer the following about fork bombs, for 10 points each.
In a fork bomb, these entities are duplicated until an operating system slows to a halt. These things are more resource intensive than threads, and they utilize their own memory pools.
Hackers and other computer intruders may create a fork bomb to initiate one of these attacks, in which a computer or computer network's resources are made useless to its users. A "distributed" one involves numerous IP addresses.
Fork bombs are often written by putting the fork system call inside of the "while" type of these structures. They are often unrolled during compilation.
processes
denial of service attack [accept distributed denial of service attack; prompt on DOS; prompt on DDOS]
loops &lt;Jose&gt;
A "runaway" form of this effect on the planet Venus is an example of a positive feedback loop in the atmospheric sciences. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which namesake gases cause thermal radiation to be re-emitted in all directions. It is named for a structure used to control the climate of plants.
This is the most abundant greenhouse gas in Earth's atmosphere, although both methane and carbon dioxide are stronger contributors to the greenhouse effect.
To calculate the effects of the greenhouse effect, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change proposed this quantity, which is defined as the difference between outgoing and incoming radiation at the tropopause.
greenhouse effect [or greenhouse gas]
water vapor [or aqueous vapor or H2O]
radiative forcing [do not accept or prompt on word forms, such as "force"] &lt;Jose&gt;
Patients with xeroderma pigmentosum cannot hydrolyze cyclobutanes formed by the dimerization of these compounds. For 10 points each:
Name these heterocyclic, monocyclic compounds which include uracil and cytosine, but doesn't include guanine.
Thymine dimerization disrupts the hydrogen bonds between thymine and this other base pair, which forms a Watson-Crick base pair with thymine.
This form of DNA repair, which is damaged in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum, can reverse pyrimidine dimers. Unlike base excision repair, this type of repair works on large mutations that disrupt the helix, such as those caused by intercalating agents.
pyrimidines [do not accept or prompt on "nitrogenous bases" or "nucleotides"]
adenine
nucleotide excision repair [or NER] &lt;Jose&gt;
The fast marching method can be thought of as a "continuous" variation of this procedure. For 10 points each:
Name this algorithm which finds the shortest path for any starting point to any collection of endpoints. It is named for a Dutch computer scientist.
Dijkstra's algorithm is typically used on adjacency matrices or adjacency lists, which are data structures that represent these mathematical structures consisting of vertices and edges.
In terms of the number of edges 'E,' and the number of vertices 'V,' Dijkstra's algorithm will have a "big O of E plus V log V" runtime if it is implemented with a priority queue that uses this underlying data structure.
Dijkstra's algorithm
graphs
Fibonnaci heap [do not accept or prompt on "heap"] &lt;Jose&gt;
The "genuine" type of this action involves using both the zygomatic major muscle and the orbicularis oculi muscle, while the "fake" or "botox" type of this action only uses the zygomatic major muscle. For 10 points each:
Name this facial expression that may or may not require fewer muscles than frowning.
The muscles used in the aforementioned genuine smile were first identified by this Frenchman, who is better known for naming a degenerative disease caused by a mutation in dystrophin.
So-called smiling mask syndrome, in which subjects become depressed after unnaturally smiling for too long, may afflict this country's population. An ecological therapy using seclusion and gradual resocialization has been developed to treat anxiety disorders in this country.
smile [or smiling]
Guillaume-Benjamin-Amand Duchenne [accept Duchenne muscular dystrophy]
Japan &lt;Jose&gt;
Because this ion has the unusual electron configuration of 4s0 3d9, its preferred geometry in coordination complexes is unusually square planar. For 10 points each:
Name this hard cation which typically forms blue complexes in solution, such as its sulfate pentahydrate.
By contrast, copper (I) complexes have no ligand field stabilization energy, so they normally adopt this molecular geometry with six ligands, two of which are axial and four equatorial.
The ligand field stabilization energy is partially derived from this rule, which states that electrons will fill each orbital in a subshell before beginning to double up, and they all have the same spin.
copper (II) [or copper two plus; or cupric ion; or Cu 2+; prompt on just copper or Cu]
octahedral molecular geometry
Hund's rule of maximum multiplicity &lt;Silverman&gt;
A collision is labeled as completely <em>this</em> if the objects remain together afterwards. For 10 points each:
Name these collisions in which kinetic energy is not conserved.
These pendulums use a completely inelastic collision to measure the initial momentum of an object such as a bullet.
When modelling a collision, this quantity is equal to the ratio of the difference in final velocities and initial velocities of the objects.
inelastic [do not accept "elastic"]
ballistic pendulum
coefficient of restitution [or CoR] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about high-altitude clouds:
The three basic cloud types are stratus, cumulus, and this kind of thin and wispy cloud that take its name from a Latin word meaning "a lock of hair." The castellanus type of this cloud appears to be "turrets" arising from a central fort cloud.
Cirrus clouds often accompany these phenomena, which are very cold, fast-moving currents in Earth's tropopause. They are generally stronger when the difference in temperature between the tropics and polar regions is higher.
These usually "silver blue" clouds seem to glow during twilight. They form in the mesosphere and were only first observed two years after Mt. Krakatoa's eruption.
cirrus clouds
jet streams
noctilucent clouds &lt;Jose&gt;
Cardiac output is measured by multiplying the heart rate by this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity equal to the difference between the end-systolic volume and the end-diastolic volume. This quantity measures how much blood exits the left ventricle per beat.
The mitral valve controls blood flow from this chamber of the heart into the left ventricle. This chamber receives oxygenated blood from the lungs.
Disorganized pacemaker signals cause the atria or ventricles of the heart to quiver instead of contract in this condition, which can be reversed by the application of a sudden electric current.
stroke volume
left atrium [prompt on atrium]
atrial or ventricular fibrillation [or cardiac arrhythmia] &lt;Zhang&gt;
In the first few steps of gluconeogenesis, two enzymes are needed to convert this molecule back into its precursor, PEP. For 10 points each:
Name this three-carbon keto-acid which gets converted to acetyl-CoA and a molecule of carbon dioxide during the entry to the citric acid cycle.
During this biochemical process, pyruvate gets reduced to lactate, regenerating NAD+ for glycolysis. This anaerobic process makes ethanol in yeast.
Both pyruvate dehydrogenase and yeast pyruvate decarboxylase require this compound's pyrophosphate derivative as a cofactor. Lack of this compound in the diet causes Wernicke's encephalopathy.
pyruvate [or pyruvic acid]
fermentation [or word forms]
thiamine [or thiamine pyrophosphate; or vitamin B1; prompt on vitamin B] &lt;Golimlim&gt;
This quantity is used to explain the motion of a gyroscope. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that, like energy and momentum, is always conserved.
The conservation of angular momentum explains the creation of these rotating regions in a fluid when the fluid goes through a drain. The quantity named for these regions is the del operator crossed with flow velocity.
Vortices are explained by this set of equations in fluid mechanics derivable from Newton's Second Law. One term in these equations multiplies density times the sum of the time derivative of fluid velocity plus the dot product of velocity with the gradient of velocity.
angular momentum [do not accept "momentum"]
vortex [or vorticity]
Navier-Stokes equations &lt;Reinstein&gt;
In 2000, Douglas Hanahan and Robert Weinberg published a classic paper in <em>Cell</em> titled "The Hallmarks of Cancer." For 10 points each:
One listed hallmark was that cancer cells evade this process in response to DNA damage. It is often considered programmed cell death, as opposed to necrosis.
The paper also mentions that cancer cells are capable of infinite cell division, likely due to their over-expression of this enzyme, which adds sequences to the end of chromosomes to prevent them from shortening.
The authors also noted that cancer cells stimulate this process due to lack of available nutrients deep inside a tumor. This process is normally activated by VEGF in hypoxic tissues.
apoptosis
telomerase
angiogenesis [or vasculogenesis; prompt on forming blood vessels or similar answers] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Muirhead's inequality generalizes this mathematical statement to vectors and is often called the "bunching method." For 10 points each:
Name this statement which for two numbers x and y states that x plus y divided by two is always greater than or equal to the square root of x times y.
One proof of the AM-GM inequality makes use of Jensen's inequality, which concerns the integral of a function of this type. Any line segment connecting two vertices of this type of polygon does not leave it.
A proof of the AM-GM inequality using both backwards and forwards induction was given by this French mathematician, who also co-names another inequality about the inner product operation with Hermann Schwarz.
arithmetic mean-geometric mean inequality [or geometric mean-arithmetic mean inequality; or AMGM or GMAM inequality; accept answers indicating the arithmetic mean is greater than or equal to the geometric mean]
convex function [or convex polygon]
Augustin-Louis Cauchy &lt;Jose&gt;
Routh's rule states that this quantity will be unchanged if an object is "stretched" in a direction that is parallel to the axis of rotation. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, often symbolized with an uppercase I, that is often considered to be the angular analogue of mass.
Give your answer in terms of d and m. For a second parallel axis that is a distance d away from the initial axis, the moment of inertia for an object of mass m, around the second axis will be equal to the moment of inertia around the first axis plus this function.
The parallel axis theorem applies to only these ideal physics objects, in which the distance between any two points on them remain constant.
moment of inertia [do not accept or prompt on inertia]
md squared
rigid body &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about spectophotometry, for 10 points each:
Spectophotometers can be used alongside this law to determine the concentration of a sample. This law is written "A equals epsilon b c," where epsilon is the molar absorptivity constant.
The most common form of spectophotometry analyzes the sample using light in the visible range and in this region of the spectrum, typically at light wavelengths between 100 and 400 nanometers.
The purity of this substance can be tested by using spectophotometry to measure the A260/280 ratio. Treating this substance with bisulfite is used to determine where methyl groups have been added to it.
Beer's law
ultraviolet [or UV light]
DNA [or deoxyribonucleic acid] &lt;Busse&gt;
While machine efficiency is the ratio of output work to input work, this quantity is the ratio of output force to input force. For 10 points each:
Name this measure of machines which is large for a lever when the input force is much further from the fulcrum than the output force.
This simple machine is used to separate objects. Like an inclined plane, its mechanical advantage equals its length divided by its width.
Griffiths and Tufillaro showed that this variant of a device containing a massless pulley and a massless string exhibits chaotic behavior.
mechanical advantage [or MA, prompt on advantage]
wedge
Swinging Attwood's machine [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
This function, which always outputs a single digit number, will only output zero if the input is also zero. For 10 points each:
Name this function, which for 789 equals 6, since 7 + 8 + 9 equals 24, and 2 + 4 equals 6.
The digital root is often used to test for this property. For example, the number 288 has this property with respect to 9, since the digital root of 288 is 9.
The digital root of any even number with this property, with the exception of 6, always equals one. These numbers, which are neither abundant nor deficient, have a one-to-one correspondence with the Mersenne primes.
digital root [exact answer required, prompt on recursive sum of digits; do not accept or prompt on "root"]
divisibility [accept word forms; accept divisibility rules]
perfect number &lt;Jose&gt;
NASA's <em>Stardust</em> uses blocks of these materials to accumulate cosmic dust. For 10 points each:
Name this substance, also called "solid smoke" or "frozen smoke." Despite being incredibly brittle, it can support over a thousand times its weight.
Since aerogel is a kind of gel, it is technically one of these chemical solutions consisting of particles dispersed within another substance. Examples of these include milk and fog.
Liquid crystals are introduced into aerogels through this process, in which a liquid flows, sometimes against gravity, due to the adhesion of the liquid to the walls of the namesake structure, often a hollow tube.
aerogels
colloids
capillary action &lt;Jose&gt;
Fifteen-year-old Jack Andraka developed a test for cancers of this organ that measures mesothelin levels. For 10 points each:
Name this organ that regulates the body's blood sugar by producing insulin and glucagon.
The pancreas produces trypsinogen and chymotrysinogen, which are examples of these inactive enzyme precursors. These proteins usually require cleavage by a protease before they are activated.
Pepsinogen, another zymogen, is activated by this compound, which is produced along with intrinsic factor by parietal cells. Proton pump inhibitors limit the secretion of this compound.
pancreas
zymogens [or proenzymes]
hydrochloric acid [or HCl; prompt on stomach acid or gastric acid] &lt;Zhang&gt;
This process is governed by a namesake long non-coding RNA that recruits Polycomb proteins. For 10 points each:
Name this method of dosage compensation that forms structures called Barr bodies.
Barr bodies were named for the researcher who discovered X inactivation in these mammals. Tortoiseshell patterns in these animals' fur is the classic example of dosage compensation.
The DNA in an inactivated X chromosome is wound into this form of chromatin, in which the histones are usually deacetylated and DNA is methylated. It is more tightly wound than euchromatin.
X chromosome inactivation [or lyonization]
cats [or calico cats; or tortoiseshell cats]
facultative heterochromatin &lt;Zhang&gt;
Examples of this kind of chemically produced rock include anhydrite, which is often found with deposits of gypsum. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of rock, which is formed in a basin that has become saturated with seawater. Salt deposition begins and creates these rocks during a phase change.
Evaporite is sometimes considered to be a "chemical" type of this class of rock, which is often produced by depositing a namesake material onto the Earth's surface. This type of rock includes conglomerate and sandstone.
Calcium, magnesium, and carbonate comprise this evaporite, which was first found in a portion of the Alps named for it. Grains of this mineral and calcite are found in marble.
evaporite(s) [do not accept or prompt on "evaporates"]
sedimentary rock
dolomite &lt;Jose&gt;
A two-level system cannot be used to create one of these devices, as a two-level system cannot achieve population inversion. For 10 points each:
Name these devices, which use stimulated emission to produce a collimated beam of light at one specific wavelength. The name of these devices is actually an acronym.
In general, a laser consists of two parts: an optical cavity resonator, and this component, which is placed inside the cavity. A mixture of helium and neon gas can be used in this part of a laser, which is where the light is amplified.
The rates of spontaneous emission, stimulated emission, and photon absorption in a laser can be related using these quantities.
lasers [accept light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation]
gain medium
Einstein (A and B) coefficients &lt;Busse&gt;
Identify some things in chemistry that fit inside other things, for 10 points each.
Many researchers have reported trapping atoms inside buckyballs, which are comprised of only this element. Diamond and graphene are allotropes of this element.
Crown ethers coordinate cations using partial negative charges on this element. The triplet state of this element's diatomic molecule contains two unpaired electrons, and is thus paramagnetic.
This term describes crystals which have guest molecules trapped within lattice cages. A common example is methane trapped within water ice at the ocean floor.
carbon [or C]
oxygen [or O]
methane clathrate hydrate &lt;Prieto&gt;
These electric circuit components consist of a coil of wire and often contain a magnetic core. For 10 points each:
Name these objects measured in henries.
Circuits attain resonance when their frequency is the reciprocal of the square root of this quantity times inductance. This quantity is measured in farads.
In terms of current and inductance, give the expression for the total amount of energy stored in an inductor.
inductors
capacitance
one-half L I squared [or one half times inductance times current squared, accept equivalents] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
The shape of members of this phylum is maintained by the mesohyl, an endoskeleton surrounded by choanocytes, as well as by needle-like spicules. For 10 points each:
Name this phylum which is oddly not classified as part of Eumetazoa, mainly because animals in this phylum have no symmetry.
Eumetazoa is usually said to encompass bilaterally symmetric organisms, ctenophores, and this other invertebrate phylum, which is radially symmetric. Its members include jellyfish and corals.
Three of the four classes of sponges are distinguished by having spicules made of this compound. This inorganic compound is biomineralized to form complex, bilaterally symmetric structures called frustules.
Porifera [prompt on sponges]
Cnidaria [or cnidarians]
silica [or silicon dioxide; or SiO2] &lt;Jose&gt;
This theorem is a special case of the mean value theorem. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem which basically states that if a function f is continuous on an interval from a to b and f(a) = f(b) ["f of a equals f of b"], then there exists at least one point c in the interval where f'(c) ["f prime of c"] equals zero.
Rolle's theorem can be equivalently stated as "there exists a line that has this property to the function that has a slope of zero." Lines with this property "barely touch" a shape or curve at one point.
The interval on a to b has this property for Rolle's theorem. Intervals with this property include their limit points.
Rolle's theorem
tangent line
closed interval [accept close and word forms of "closed"] &lt;Jose&gt;
Magnetocrystalline anisotropies in ferromagnetic materials are caused by this interaction. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which the magnetic moment arising from the intrinsic angular moment of a particle and the magnetic field of the particle causes a shift in the system's energy levels.
The magnetic moment of these elements is altered due to the strength of spin-orbit coupling. These elements, which correspond to numbers 57-71 on the periodic table, lie above the actinides and are named for a rare-earth element.
Another spin interaction is Kugel–Khomskii coupling, in which spin and the number of these quantities are linked. A linear molecule has 2 of these, while possessing "3N minus 5 vibrational" ones.
spin-orbit coupling
lanthanides
degrees of freedom &lt;Jose&gt;
Some discoveries made with this invention were initially named after Cosimo II Medici and his brothers. For 10 points each:
Name this invention which built upon the work of Zacharias Janssen and Jacob Metius. Tycho Brahe did not have one of these devices available when making his studies.
This Italian astronomer used his refractive telescope to discover his namesake moons of Jupiter. This author of Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems was targeted by the Inquisition for his Copernican views.
Galileo dedicated the Two Chief World Systems to the eighth pope of this name, who had just been elected. That same pope of this name excommunicated Odoardo I of Parma during the War of Castro.
refractive telescopes
Galileo Galilei
Urban VIII &lt;Bentley&gt;
This quantity is represented as the "hump" on a reaction coordinate diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this energy barrier for a reaction to occur.
The catalyst normally reduces the activation energy just by stabilizing this species, the highest-energy species formed during the course of the reaction. In equations, it's usually symbolized by a double dagger.
A transition state analog named CA1P tightly binds to this enzyme and inhibits its function. This enzyme produces two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate from a five carbon molecule and a one carbon molecule.
activation energy [or free energy of activation]
transition state [or TS]
RuBisCO [or ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase] &lt;Silverman&gt;
Fisher's fundamental theorem states that the rate of increase in this quantity exactly equals its genetic variance for a given organism at a specific time. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which Sewall Wright plotted on its namesake landscapes to show how it can be optimized in several dimensions.
For a 1-D fitness landscape, this form of selection would be represented by a bell curve. In this type of selection, exemplified by human birth weight, intermediate traits are best.
Stabilizing selection, like all natural selection, only operates at the level of this property, which is the set of observable characteristics in an organism, as contrasted with the actual alleles that it possesses.
biological fitness [or fitness landscapes]
stabilizing selection [or word forms]
phenotype &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following regarding rectangular blocks on flat surfaces, for 10 points each:
If you push the block to the right, this force will point left, opposing the motion. This force opposes motion when two solids are in direct contact.
The magnitude of the force of friction on the block is proportional to this other force, which is exerted on the block by the surface and is a consequence of Newton's third law.
Two answers required. For a horizontal force applied to a rectangular block on a flat surface, the magnitude and location of the vectors for the applied force, the frictional force, and the normal force determine which of these two types of motion occurs.
frictional force
normal force
slipping along the surface or tipping over [accept "sliding" in place of "slipping"] &lt;Busse&gt;
A high concentration of these compounds can cause a patient to have a fruity-smelling breath. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds like aceto-acetate and beta-hydroxy-butyrate which are produced by the liver during fasting or starvation.
Patients with this disease accumulate ketone bodies and suffer from ketoacidosis, which also explains why sufferers of this disease often have breath that smells like acetone. This disease is treated with drugs like glargine and lispro.
The brain requires ketone bodies for synthesis of long-chain fatty acids, since those lipids cannot pass this barrier. This structure prevents large molecules from getting into the brain.
ketone bodies [prompt on partial answer]
diabetes [or diabetes mellitus; or type I diabetes; or type II diabetes; do not accept "diabetes insipidus"]
blood-brain barrier [or BBB] &lt;Golimlim&gt;
A class of these scientific objects called a mold is formed when a shell or another biological component is buried in sediment before it is subsequently dissolved. For 10 points each:
Name these archaeological objects studied by paleontologists.
This type of fossil is useful for dating since it is limited to a narrow geological period of time even though it is geographically widespread. It is often used to correlate layers of rock in different regions.
This kind of trace fossil is the petrified remains of dung. Like urolite fossils, this kind of fossil is useful in analyzing the diet of extinct species, such as dinosaurs.
fossils
index fossils [accept guide fossils or indicator fossils or zone fossils]
coprolites &lt;Jose&gt;
These transformations were originally developed to defend the existence of the luminiferous ether. For 10 points each:
Name these transformations whose factor is represented by a gamma and which are used in special relativity theory.
Lorentz transformations are used to calculate time dilation and the contraction of this quantity.
A common representation of the Lorentz group uses the "bi" form of these mathematical entities, which transform to their negatives when the space is rotated 360 degrees.
Lorentz transformations
length [or distance]
bispinor &lt;Reinstein&gt;
This relation was discredited with the discovery of Eris and Pluto, since they were much father than this formula predicted. For 10 points each:
Name this empirical "law" named for two astronomers, that roughly predicts the spacing of planets in the Solar System.
The mathematical formulation of the Titius-Bode law lead Johann Bode to predict the existence of a planet between these two other planets. As it turns out, an asteroid belt exists between this gas giant and this red planet.
The Titius-Bode law states that this value for a planet's orbit is equal to "4 plus n" where n is 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, and so on. Kepler's third law states that the square of a planet's period is equal to the cube of this quantity.
Titius-Bode Law [accept Titius Law]
Mars and Jupiter [accept in either order]
semi-major axis [prompt on axis] &lt;Jose&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about inquiline species, organisms which use other organisms for housing.
It is usually classified as this kind of symbiotic relationship, in which one party benefits but the other is unharmed.
On the other hand, this inquiline species is no longer commensalistic, but instead acts as brood parasites. These birds lay their eggs in the nests of reed warblers, and then their newborn chicks push rival eggs out of the nest.
A chapter on inquilinism in ants is discussed in the EO Wilson book of this name subtitled "The New Synthesis." That book gave its name to this study of the relationship between evolution and behavior.
commensalism [or word forms]
European cuckoo birds
sociobiology [or Sociobiology: The New Synthesis] &lt;Jose&gt;
This device was first demonstrated in 1851, the same year that Charles Wheatstone demonstrated another device demonstrating the rotation of the Earth. For 10 points each:
Name this pendulum named for the French scientist who built the first one.
Give the measure in degrees of the latitude north or south of the Equator at which a Foucault pendulum takes exactly two days to return to its original position.
Leon Foucault also used to be the namesake of these electric currents which he studied by rotating a copper disc in a magnetic field. This term was originally used to describe the motion of water.
Foucault pendulum
30 degrees
eddy currents &lt;Reinstein&gt;
A methylene bridge links an atom of this metal to an atom of titanium in Tebbe's reagent. For 10 points each:
Name this element which is predominantly used in the manufacture of soda cans.
This process, named for the American and French chemists who discovered it independently, is the main industrial process for producing aluminum. About five percent of the U.S.'s electric energy is spent on this process.
This molten ore is used as a solvent for alumina in the Hall–Héroult process. Historically mined in Greenland, this ore was once used to make lye.
aluminum [accept aluminium or Al]
Hall–Héroult (ay-ROO) process
cryolite &lt;Jose&gt;
The first type of antenna built to detect this phenomenon is the Weber Bar, which is an aluminum cylinder that starts pulsating when it is hit by this type of radiation. For 10 points each:
Name this type of radiation which is thought to be caused by ripples in the curvature of spacetime.
This theory first developed by Albert Einstein, which is governed by a set of equations relating the curvature of spacetime to matter and energy, predicts the existence of gravitational radiation. It is more complex than its "special" counterpart.
Gravitational radiation is thought to have been emitted by the Hulse-Taylor one of these systems. The barycenter is the center of mass of these kinds of systems.
gravitational radiation [accept gravitational waves; accept gravity radiation; do not accept or prompt on "gravity waves"]
general relativity [accept GR; prompt on relativity]
binary star system &lt;Jose&gt;
The Beavis effect describes the tendency to overestimate the phenotypic variance associated with these things. For 10 points each:
Name these DNA loci that covary with continuous, polygenic traits. They are often mapped using recombinant inbred lines.
Polygenic traits do not follow the patterns of inheritance of this cleric-scientist, who discovered the Laws of Segregation and Independent Assortment while working with pea plants.
In crops, QTL mapping is often used in tandem with marker-assisted selection, which is based on this lab technique. Master mixes for this technique usually include a forward and reverse primer, dNTPs, and a heat-resistant DNA polymerase.
quantitative trait loci [or QTLs]
Gregor Johann Mendel [or Řehoř Jan Mendel]
polymerase chain reaction [or PCR] &lt;Kothari&gt;
In 2013, scientists found zircons on Mauritius, suggesting that a third one of these landmasses may exist off its shores. For 10 points each:
Name this type of landmass. The only two examples of this type of landmass officially recognized by geographers are the Kerguelen (KURR-guh-lin) Plateau and Zealandia.
In antiquity, many geographers believed in the existence of a submerged continent of this name, which was described in Plato's dialogue Timaeus.
Pseudo-geographers used the sunken Yonaguni Monument as evidence that these islands are fragments of a now submerged continent. The largest of these islands is Okinawa.
submerged continent [do not accept or prompt on "continent"; accept continental fragment; accept microcontinent; accept anything indicating that a continent is now underwater]
Atlantis
Ryūkyū Islands &lt;Jose&gt;
In infants, lack of production of this substance can lead to IRDS, a form of respiratory distress. For 10 points each:
Name this substance mostly composed of DPPC, which is secreted by type II alveolar cells to prevent alveoli from collapsing when the gas pressure in the lungs changes.
The bronchioles that lead to alveoli are constricted in this lung disease, leading to symptoms like wheezing. Medication for this disease is often delivered with inhalers.
The diffusion of gases between alveoli and capillaries is inhibited by this condition, which results from a buildup of interstitial fluid in the lungs. Congestive heart failure often results in this condition.
pulmonary surfactant
asthma
pulmonary edema &lt;Zhang&gt;
This is the only interaction of its kind which does not have a well-defined propagator in the Standard Model. For 10 points each:
Name this interaction, whose coupling constant is on the order of 10 to the minus 39 power; attempts to explain why its coupling constant is so small constitute the hierarchy problem.
Physics has yet to come up with a model which unifies a relativistic theory of gravity with this field of physics, which explains why Schrodinger's cat is both alive and dead until someone opens the box.
A relativistic theory of gravity was put forth by Einstein, who rejected the probabilistic results of quantum mechanics by stating that "God does not play with" these objects.
gravity [or gravitational force]
quantum mechanics [accept QM]
dice &lt;Busse&gt;
Useful heterologous DNA elements called "morons" are expressed during this process. For 10 points each:
Name this reproductive cycle in which an infectious agent incorporates itself into the host's DNA and remains quiescent, allowing the host to divide normally, rather than bursting.
The lysogenic and lytic cycles are the two modes of reproduction for these viruses that infect bacteria.
The sopE and sieA morons are expressed by this bacterial genus, which is grouped into serotypes by the Kauffman-White system. Its species like enterica and typhimirium causes diseases like typhoid fever.
lysogenic cycle [or lysogeny]
bacteriophages [or phages]
Salmonella [or Salmonella enterica; or Salmonella typhimirium] &lt;Jose&gt;
Many scenery generators, such as SpeedTree, a program that generates foliage for video games and movies, procedurally create shapes using these other shapes. For 10 points each:
Name these self-similar curves, exemplified by the Menger (MENG-er) sponge. Their name comes from the Latin word for "broken."
The "set" named for this mathematician is an example of a fractal. His paper asking "How long is the coastline of Great Britain?" first proposed the concept of fractals.
This quantity is often used to measure the "amount of space" a fractal occupies, and is generally greater than its topological dimension. For the Koch curve, this quantity is approximately 1.26.
fractals
Benoit Mandelbrot [accept Mandelbrot set]
Hausdorff dimension [do not accept or prompt on dimension alone] &lt;Jose&gt;
This type of mutation is useful for mapping evolutionary history in a molecular clock. For 10 points each:
Name this type of mutation which is defined to have neither a positive nor a negative impact on a species' fitness.
Neutral theory proposes that most genetic variation is caused by this phenomenon, the change in allele frequencies due to random apportionment of alleles in a finite population. The founder and bottleneck effects are examples of it.
In a finite population, genetic drift eventually leads to this phenomenon, in which an allele achieves 100% frequency. The number of generations it takes for this event to occur equals four times the population size, assuming a large population.
neutral mutation
genetic drift [or allelic drift]
allele fixation [or word forms] &lt;Jose&gt;
Like elliptical geometry, this non-Euclidean geometry features triangles whose interior angles sum to greater than 180 degrees. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of geometry, in which all lines meet at two antipodes.
The postulate named for this kind of line does not hold in non-Euclidean geometry. For a line q and a point p not on the line, only one line with this property with respect to q can be drawn through that point p according to the postulate.
In the spherical geometry, this familiar statement reduces down to the statement that "cosine of a equals the cosine of b times the cosine of c." Similar to its Euclidean counterpart, it is a special case of the spherical law of cosines.
spherical geometry
parallel lines [accept parallel line postulate]
Pythagorean theorem &lt;Jose&gt;
The Reynolds number is defined as the ratio of inertial forces to this other type of forces. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is a measure of a fluid's resistance to flowing. It is almost zero for superfluids, such as liquid helium.
This general class of fluids has a viscosity that is dependent on the shear rate. Examples of these materials includes thixotropic substances such as ketchup, as well as oobleck, a mixture of corn starch and water.
Mayonnaise and mustard are this type of non-Newtonian fluid, which is similar to a Newtonian fluid in that the relationship between shearing stress and rate is linear, but this kind of substance will not flow until the yield stress is met.
viscosity [accept word forms such as viscous]
non-Newtonian fluid [do not accept or prompt on "Newtonian fluid"]
Bingham plastic [prompt on plastic] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer some questions about unusual uses of nickel, for 10 points each.
Nickel tanks are used to transport this element because it forms a passivation layer on the tank's inside lining. It is the most electronegative element of the periodic table.
Nickel-63 is used to detect molecules in this type of chromatography, which vaporizes the sample before separation. It is typically coupled with mass spectrometry.
This nickel-dependent enzyme was crystallized by James Sumner to demonstrate that enzymatic function was performed by proteins. This enzyme hydrolyzes its namesake molecule into carbon dioxide and ammonia.
fluorine [or F]
gas chromatography [or GC]
urease &lt;Prieto&gt;
The limit superior of a sequence is defined as this function of the set of limit points of the sequence. For 10 points each:
Name this lowest upper bound of a set of numbers. The completeness of the real numbers R states that every bounded subset of R has this bound, which is typically larger than the set's infimum.
The supremum is used to define the Lebesgue (luh-BEG) type of this operation. Its Riemann (REE-mon) form intuitively measures the area under a curve.
These formulas are useful when performing the Weierstrass (VYE-er-stross) substitution to find an integral. One of these trigonometric identities states that the sine of a namesake function of x is equal to "plus or minus the square root of one minus cosine of x all over two."
supremum [prompt on least upper bound or LUB]
integration [or taking the integral; or equivalents; prompt on antiderivative]
half-angle formulas [accept answers indicating half-angle functions] &lt;Hothem&gt;
In a modified formulation of Raoult's Law, this quantity times the liquid phase mole fraction times the vapor pressure equals the fugacity. For 10 points each:
Name this dimensionless quantity which represents the non-ideal interactions between two components in a liquid solution.
If the activity coefficients are not unity, then activities and not molarities should be used in this equation, which sets the equilibrium constant equal to the product of each species' concentration raised to its stoichiometric coefficient.
A common example of an activity coefficient less than one is observed in the mixture of chloroform with this simplest ketone, the major component of nail polish remover.
activity coefficient [do not accept or prompt on "activity"]
law of mass action [or mass action expression]
acetone [or dimethyl ketone] &lt;Silverman&gt;
This type of inversion is comparable to taking the mirror image of an object. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that was found to not be conserved in the beta decay of cobalt-60.
Though parity conservation sometimes does not exist, the laws of physics are symmetric with a combination of parity inversion, time reversal, and the conjugation of this quantity.
Parity is not conserved in this fundamental force whose carrier particles are the W and Z bosons and which allows quarks to change flavors. In 1979, the Nobel Prize in Physics was given for the unification of this force with electromagnetism.
parity [prompt on p]
charge [prompt on c]
weak interaction [or weak nuclear force; prompt on electroweak interaction] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
A subclass of these organisms contains only one living member, the ginkgo. For 10 points each:
Name this group of plants which produce "naked seeds," in contrast to the flowering plant angiosperms. Conifers and cycads are examples of them.
Cycads also produce cones called strobili that contain hundreds of these structures. These structures are the site of meiosis in plants, forming namesake haploid cells, and four of them are located in each anther of an angiosperm.
During alternation of generations, a spore eventually develops into this multicellular organism by mitosis. In vascular plants, it is haploid, unlike its larger counterpart.
gymnosperms
sporangia [or microsporangia; or megasporangia]
gametophyte &lt;Jose&gt;
The bidirectional variant of this algorithm is sometimes named cocktail shaker sort. For 10 points each:
Name this simple sorting algorithm that checks to see if two elements of a list are in order and swaps them if they are not. It proceeds down the list and repeats until no swaps have been made on a single pass.
Bubble sort has this worst case asymptotic runtime. Please express your answer with a tight bound using either big O or big Theta notation.
John von Neumann developed this divide-and-conquer sorting algorithm in which a list of unsorted numbers is split recursively, sorted, and then recombined using the namesake operation.
bubble sort [or sinking sort]
n squared [or big O of n squared or big Theta of n squared; do not accept or prompt on "n"]
mergesort &lt;Jose&gt;
The color charge was introduced to explain why three of these particles with otherwise identical quantum numbers could coexist. For 10 points each:
Name these particles that have six possible flavors. One of these particles combine with its antiparticle to form a meson.
This is the lightest flavor of quark. A proton contains two of these quarks, whereas a neutron contains one.
This quantity was introduced to differentiate between two particles, like the proton and neutron, that behave identically under the strong nuclear force but differently under the electromagnetic force.
quarks
up quark
isospin [or isotopic spin or isobaric spin] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
During saponification, this reaction breaks ester bonds in triglycerides to form a soap. For 10 points each:
Identify this cleavage of a carbon-oxygen bond by the addition of a water molecule. Phosphates are usually removed by this reaction.
During saponification, fat droplets are removed from soap by this technique, where a volatile substance is constantly boiling and condensing back into the reaction vessel.
The most common ingredient in soap is the sodium salt of stearic acid, which contains this many carbons. Stable metal complexes are predicted by using a rule named for this many electrons.
hydrolysis
refluxing
eighteen electron rule &lt;Jose&gt;
Measurements of this value are a key part of the psychology research program called behavioral genetics. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that measures the extent to which differences between individuals in a population can be attributed to differences in genes.
Many studies of heritability use sets of these people to partition the effects of genetic and environmental variation. Sets of these people can be dizygotic or monozygotic, and have identical genetic codes in the latter case.
Name both the lower bound and the upper bound on measurements of heritability. Elsewhere in social science, these are the lower and upper bounds on R^2 ("R squared") in simple linear regression.
heritability [or word forms]
twins [or monozygotic twins; or dizygotic twins; or identical twins; or fraternal twins; or n-tuplets]
0.0 and 1.0, inclusive &lt;Jackson&gt;
Because they are jagged, substances such as copper exhibit the "hackly" form of this mineral property. For 10 points each:
Give this term that refers to the pattern of breakage of a mineral. Unlike the related cleavage, this term refers to the breaking that does not occur along the cleavage planes.
Flint, opal and other glassy minerals tend to exhibit this type of fracture, which is so-named because the breakage resembles a mussel shell.
This glassy rock exhibits a conchoidal fracture. Rhyolitic lava flows are named after this black vitreous rock, which forms when there has not been enough time for crystal growth to fully occur.
fracture
conchoidal fracture
obsidian &lt;Jose&gt;
The vector type of this concept is often used to model action-at-a-distance by assigning a vector quantity to each point in space. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that can be represented by lines showing the direction that a force would move a particle in.
This adjective is used to describe a vector field that equals the gradient of a potential function. The work done by such a field is path-independent.
This operation gives the zero vector in any conservative vector field. This operation is equivalent to the del operator crossed with the field.
vector field
conservative vector field
curl &lt;Reinstein&gt;
This process occurs radially in deuterostomes like vertebrates and echinoderms. For 10 points each:
Name this embryonic developmental process of several rapid cell divisions in the absence of cell growth. During it, the zygote turns into the morula, then the blastula.
In humans, embryonic cleavage partitions the blastula into two poles: one yolk-rich and one yolk-poor, the latter eventually forming the germ layers. Name both poles.
Human embryos undergo holoblastic cleavage, in which very little yolk is left in the egg. That's because human embryos are nourished by this organ, which connects the developing fetus to the mother's uterus.
embryonic cleavage
vegetal pole and the animal pole [prompt on partial answer; either order acceptable]
placenta &lt;Silverman&gt;
The so-called "Trojans" can be found on the L4 and L5 components of these systems that exist between the Earth and the Sun. For 10 points each:
Name these locations, where a small object can stay between two orbiting bodies.
The L3 Earth-Sun Lagrange point is an ideal place to put a spacecraft to detect these large bodies that may cause catastrophic damage if they hit Earth. Vesta and Ceres are two of the largest ones.
Lagrange points define this hypothetical "superhighway," which provides a low energy-cost method for objects to move about the Solar System, even though its transport would take a long time.
Lagrange points [or Lagrangian points or libration points; prompt on L points]
asteroids
Interplanetary Transport Network &lt;Jose&gt;
Sufferers of PKU lack the enzyme that hydroxylates phenylalanine to form this other amino acid. For 10 points each:
Name this aromatic amino acid whose side chain consists of a phenol group.
Oxidative polymerization of tyrosine by an enzyme called tyrosinase forms this pigment, which is produced in the skin in response to UV radiation.
The substantia nigra in the midbrain is named because it has many melanin-containing neurons that produce this compound. This compound is biosynthesized by decarboxylating a derivative of tyrosine.
tyrosine [or Y; or Tyr]
melanin [or eumelanin; or pheomelanin]
dopamine &lt;Zhang&gt;
Henri Becquerel recognized that salts of this element emitted radiation, discovering radioactivity. For 10 points each:
Identify this element whose 235 isotope is used for fuel in nuclear reactors.
Uranium isotopes are purified by gaseous diffusion when uranium is bonded to this many fluorines. This number is also the oxidation state of chromium in the chromate polyatomic ion, which has an overall charge of negative two.
Uranium may also be found in the compound uranocene, which is one of these compounds that has a central metal atom in the space between two aromatic rings. Metallocenes are special examples of these kinds of compounds.
uranium [or U]
positive six [or uranium hexafluoride]
sandwich compounds &lt;Prieto&gt; Save for next year, this bonus has a lot of overlap with stuff.
Activated macrophages produce cytokines like interleukin-1 and TNF-alpha to promote this process. For 10 points each:
Name this immune process in which mast cells release histamine to increase blood flow to an injured region, which then gets red and swells.
Inflammation is an example of innate or nonspecific immunity, as contrasted with this form of immunity. This type of immunity is acquired after exposure to an antigen through, for example, a vaccination.
Cells produce this class of cytokines in response to viral infections. They come in alpha, beta, and gamma types, and their name refers to their inhibition of viral growth.
inflammation [or word forms]
adaptive immunity [prompt on acquired immunity]
interferons [or IFNs] &lt;Yu&gt;
This material became more useful in the 15th century when the process of corning was developed. For 10 points each:
Name this material. William of Rubruck may have brought Eastern knowledge of this substance back to Europe, where a recipe for it was recorded in the 13th century by Roger Bacon.
This industrialist's smokeless powder Ballistite largely replaced gunpowder as a propellant for small firearms. This Swede also invented dynamite and established a set of annual prizes.
This scientist improved his country's supply of gunpowder after being appointed to the Gunpowder Commission in 1775. Guillotined during the Reign of Terror, this scientist weighed closed vessels of gas to disprove Phlogiston theory.
gunpowder [or black powder; or blasting powder]
Alfred Nobel [or Alfred Bernhard Nobel]
Antoine Lavoisier [or Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Consider two propositions denoted <em>p</em> and <em>q</em>. For 10 points each:
The situations in which "p implies q" is a correct statement may be illustrated on one of these "tables," in which the output of all combinations of p and q being assigned "T" and "F" values are shown.
Two answers required. For two properties p and q, the statement "p is true, if and only if q is true" is valid if one can show the existence of these two conditions.
For the statement "p implies q," this statement is denoted "not q implies not p." Assuming that "p implies q" is true, then this statement will always be true.
truth tables
necessary and sufficient conditions [prompt on one answer; accept necessity in place of necessary; accept sufficiency in place of sufficient]
contrapositive &lt;Jose&gt;
This quantity is added to the product of permittivity and electric field to produce the electric displacement field. For 10 points each:
Name this vector equal to the dipole moment per unit volume in a solid. In linear materials, the electric susceptibility describes how this quantity appears in response to an electric field.
The negative divergence of the polarization vector gives the "bound" version of the density of this quantity. The SI unit for this quantity is the Coulomb.
The charges in these highly polarizable materials align to reduce the electric field in their interior. Inserting this type of insulator between the parallel plates of a capacitor increases the capacitance.
 electric polarization density [do not accept "polarizability"]
charge density
dielectrics
This point for water defines the Kelvin temperature scale. For 10 points each:
Name this point where three phases coexist.
According to this rule, the number of degrees of freedom at the triple point for a one-component mixture is zero. Named for an American, it's usually rendered as F equals C minus P plus 2.
The eutectic point is a special triple point where a liquid and two of these species are in equilibrium. In these mixtures, one solute crystallizes inside another lattice substitutionally or interstitially.
triple point
Gibbs phase rule [or Gibbs phase rule]
solid solutions [or alloys; prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following about inequalities in mathematics, for 10 points each:
One of the simplest inequalities states that, for a real number r, this function of r is greater than or equal to zero. The graph of this function of x is a parabola with vertex at (0,0) ("0 comma 0").
Another famous inequality states that the arithmetic mean of real numbers is always greater than or equal to this type of mean, which for n numbers is the nth root of their product.
This inequality, named for a Russian mathematician, says that for a nonnegative random variable X, X can be at least n times its expected value no more than 1 over n of the time.
squaring [accept x-squared or any other word forms]
geometric mean
Markov's inequality
In their inner tubes, these devices have a thin tungsten wire that carries a positive voltage. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that detect ionizing radiation by making a "clicking" noise.
A Geiger counter can be used to estimate this quantity, which is the average amount of radiative energy absorbed by a sample per unit mass. Its common SI unit is the gray.
This other detector responds to ionizing radiation by emitting photons according to the photoelectric effect at low energies. These devices use a photomultiplier to then amplify the signal.
Geiger counter
radiative dose [or absorbed dose]
scintillation counters [or scintillators]
The K type of these devices is composed of mainly chromium and aluminum. For 10 points each:
Name these sensitive temperature monitors that work according to the Seebeck effect. They register a voltage when the temperature is changed, due to an internal junction of two different conductors.
The Seebeck effect is a result of a difference in this quantity for the two conductors. This quantity is the amount of energy required to excite an electron from the surface of a metal in the photoelectric effect.
The photoelectric effect was first identified by this German physicist, who placed a spark gap in a box and applied UV radiation. The SI unit of frequency is named for him.
thermocouples
work function [prompt on phi]
Heinrich Hertz
In probability theory, an event is defined as a subset of this space. For 10 points each:
Name this space, which consists of all possible outcomes. For flipping a coin twice, there are four entries in this space.
Since the set of outcomes for flipping a coin twice has this property, one defines a probability mass function over it, and not a density function. This word is often considered to be the opposite of continuous.
This quantity is defined as the sum over all elements of the probability that an event occurs times the event's value. The square of this quantity and a squared random variable's value for this quantity appears in the definition for variance.
sample space
discreteness [accept word forms]
 expected value [accepted word forms, such as expectation value; do not accept or prompt on the "mean"]
This equation could be used to estimate the extent of ionization of ferrous ions to ferric ions in solution. For 10 points each:
Name this equation which can be used to calculate very dilute concentrations of ions, which is why it is applied by glucose sensors and sensitive pH meters. A constant factor of 0.059 is included in this equation at standard conditions.
The concentrations are included in this term of the Nernst equation. When this quantity is larger than the equilibrium constant, Le Chatelier's principle predicts the equilibrium will shift towards the reactants.
The shift occurs to minimize this quantity at equilibrium. This form of free energy is symbolized G.
Nernst equation
reaction quotient [or Q]
Gibbs free energy
This equation relates the Hamiltonian operator to the energy operator, the latter of which is given by i times hbar times d over d-t. For 10 points each:
Name this equation whose Austrian creator also names a thought experiment involving a cat.
The Schroedinger equation is an example of this general class of equations, which involves the derivatives of functions of more than one variable. Other examples from physics include the heat equation and the general wave equation.
One can solve the Schroedinger equation using this semiclassical method, in which the wavefunction is described by an exponential with slowly changing amplitude and phase.
Schroedinger wave equation
partial differential equation [or PDE; prompt on partial answer]
WKB approximation [or Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin approximation; or LG method; or LiouvilleGreen method]
Dextrose, a form of glucose, gets its name because it does this. For 10 points each:
Name this behavior demonstrated by compounds prefixed with the letters D and L. Polarimetry, a method of quantifying this behavior, can be used to assess the purity of compounds.
The purity of these compounds can be measured using a polarimeter. These compounds must have a tetrahedral carbon with four different substituents, and mixtures of them are called racemates.
Separation of enantiomers often requires the chiral form of this technique. The various forms of this process separate components based on how quickly they move through a stationary phase.
optical rotation [or optical activity; or rotating the plane of polarization of plane-polarized light; or rotating light; or obvious equivalents]
enantiomers [or chiral molecules; prompt on isomers; prompt on stereoisomers]
chiral chromatography
Rete ridges are extensions of this region, which lacks blood vessels and is derived from the ectoderm, like enamel and the nervous system. For 10 points each:
Name this region affected by superficial, or first-degree burns. It is composed of keratinocytes and pigmentproducing melanocytes.
The epidermis is the outer layer of this largest mammalian organ, which provides insulation and protection from the environment.
The fourth one of these transforming growth factor beta proteins is needed to differentiate the epidermis from the ectoderm, and its function in dorso-ventral patterning is inhibited by noggin and chordin. This protein family is named for its role in forming cartilage and the namesake tissue.
epidermis [or cornified layer; or stratum corneum; or clear layer; or translucent layer; or stratum lucidum; or granular layer; or stratum granulosum; or spinous layer; or stratum spinosum; or basal layer; or germinal layer; or stratum basale; or stratum germinativum; or Malphigian layer; or stratum malphigi; prompt on skin]
skin
bone morphogenetic proteins [or BMPs; or BMP4] 
This phenomenon occurs because the index of refraction depends on the wavelength. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which white light passing through a prism can be separated into the visible spectrum.
Specifically, dispersion may occur because the phase and group velocities are not equal, and therefore, the light appears to propagate in these small linear combinations of individual travelling waves. Their overall shape is called an envelope.
The variation of index of refraction with wavelength also leads to this undesirable effect, in which there are fringes of color around the image focused by a lens.
dispersion
wave packets
chromatic aberration [prompt on partial answers]
The dedicated shader units of varieties of these computer parts have been used to solve physics problems. For 10 points each:
Identify these computer parts whose memory may be used to store triangle meshes and texture maps; in laptops they are often integrated with the CPU.
Suites such as ocl-Hashcat Plus use GPUs to quickly crack these things, which are often salted and put through a secure hashing function. These things tend to be more secure when they're comprised of longer sets of characters.
Secure hash functions are designed to minimize the number of these events where different inputs produce the same hashed output. In a regular hash table, chaining is a way to resolve these conflicts.
GPU [or graphics cards; or video cards; or Graphics Processing Unit; or Graphical Processing Unit; or VPU; or Visual Processing Unit]
passwords
collisions
Population I and Population II stars differ in this quantity, while a hypothesized Population III star would almost completely lack it. For 10 points each:
Name this property of a star, which is the ratio of hydrogen and helium to all other elements that comprise the star.
In stars, higher mass elements are formed through this process, in which atoms are combined in a fusion reaction. This terms denotes the production of new elements from existing elements.
Nucleosynthesis first began a few minutes following this event, which is generally considered the beginning of the universe.
metallicity [or Z]
nucleosynthesis
Big Bang
Low K-sub-m values indicate high affinity of the substrate for these molecules. For 10 points each:
Name these biological catalysts that serve to lower the activation energy of a reaction.
In this classic doubly-eponymous equation in enzyme kinetics, the namesake constant K-sub-m is the substrate concentration when the reaction rate is half-maximal.
This phenomenon is mathematically modeled by a constant symbolized alpha that multiplies the Michaelis constant. This phenomenon causes a change in slope on a Lineweaver-Burke plot, and it usually involves a small molecule that resembles the substrate.
enzymes
Michaelis-Menten equation
competitive inhibition [or word forms; prompt on inhibition or word forms]
Bromodomains are likely to bind at sites that have undergone this process, which is carried out by enzymes in the GNAT and MYST families. For 10 points each:
Name this posttranslational modification that removes the positive charge of histones at lysine residues.
Histone acetylation relaxes DNA packaged in the form of chromatin in this central organelle whose presence gives eukaryotes their name.
The binding protein of the binding protein of this compound's response elements can catalyze the acetylation of histones. This secondary messenger is synthesized by the action of adenylate cyclase upon ATP.
histone acetylation
nucleus
cAMP [or cyclic AMP; or cyclic adenosine monophosphate; do not accept "AMP" or "adenosine monophosphate"]
Identify the following properties of quantum wavefunctions, for 10 points each.
Wavefunctions represent one half of a "duality" in which the objects they describe can be seen as either waves or these things.
To conserve the total probability of observing a particle anywhere, wavefunctions must be normalized, meaning that the integral of their square over all space equals this value.
If the sums of the projection operators onto a basis set of wavefunctions equals one, then the set has this property. This condition means that any wavefunction can be decomposed into a linear combination of basis elements.
particles
one
completeness [or completeness relation]
Answer the following about thin films, for 10 points each.
Light incident on a thin film will either be transmitted or undergo this process at the interface. The angle of incidence equals the angle of this phenomenon.
In anti-reflection coatings, the transmitted light eventually undergoes this process with the reflected light. For this process to occur, the phase difference for two waves must be exactly pi, and the path difference is a half-integer multiple of wavelength.
The amount of light reflected versus transmitted can be obtained from this equation for s-polarized light, which gives the reflectance as a function of the two indices of refraction and the angles of transmission and reflection.
reflection [or word forms]
destructive interference [prompt on partial answers]
Fresnel (FRUH-nel) equations
One of the first of these algorithms was designed in the 1960s by John McCarthy and is known as the mark and sweep method. For 10 points each:
Identify these types of algorithms that don't require programmers to explicitly free allocated memory. An approach to doing this finds all non-reachable memory and deletes it.
This object-oriented language used in many AP CS classes includes a garbage collector. Dalvik runs programs written in this language on Android devices.
McCarthy's garbage collector was written for Lisp, which is an example of this type of language. Haskell is an example of the "pure" form of this type of language, as its namesake constructs do not cause side effects.
garbage collection algorithms [or word forms]
Java [do not accept "Javascript"]
functional programming language
This quantity is equal to RT over the molar volume, times the sum of the log of activity coefficient times mole fraction. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which is estimated as molarity times RT by the Morse equation. It is equivalent to the height difference between two halves of dialysis tubing separated by a semipermeable membrane.
In this process, the pressure driving force must be greater than the osmotic pressure. In this most-common method of industrial desalination, water is transported against its concentration gradient.
The "back" form of this process complicates reverse osmosis due to a concentration polarization. Osmosis is a type of this form of mass transport which freely occurs along a concentration gradient.
osmotic pressure [or pi; prompt on pressure]
reverse osmosis [or RO; do not accept or prompt on "osmosis"]
diffusion [or diffusive flux; or back diffusion]
A control system has this property if the amplitude ratio is less than one when the frequency is at negative 180 degrees on a Bode plot. For 10 points each:
Name this property that is possessed by an equilibrium if the second derivative of the potential energy is positive.
Any shift to an object in stable equilibrium will cause this point to increase in elevation. This point is equivalent to the centroid for uniform geometric objects in a uniform gravitational field.
Using the center of gravity and barycentric coordinates makes problems involving this many bodies much easier. The attractive force between this many bodies is described by Newton's law of universal gravitation.
stability [or word forms]
center of gravity [or CG; or center of mass]
two [or obvious equivalents]
For 10 points each, answer some questions about tissue culture.
Many tissue cultures grow inside a liquid media containing 10% FBS, which consists of serum collected from the hearts of these animals.
Changing the media typically involves aspiration using a vacuum system connected to a glass pipet named after this scientist, who is better known for disproving spontaneous generation, and for developing a namesake method of sterilizing milk.
Cells may be cultured on a liquid medium or on a bed of solid agar inside this piece of lab equipment, a shallow cylindrical container named for a bacteriologist.
cows [or bovines; or fetal bovine serum; or fetal calf serum; or calves; or Bos taurus]
Louis Pasteur [or pasteurization]
Petri dish [prompt on cell-culture dish]
The only protein that contains the unusual amino acid hypusine is an initiation factor for this process, which is inhibited by streptomycin and erythromycin. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which ribosomes synthesize proteins by reading codons on mRNA and bringing the appropriate amino acid corresponding to its anticodon.
Translation happens on three sites along the ribosome: one where the aminoacyl tRNA enters, one where the growing polypeptide chain is being formed, and one where the unloaded tRNA leaves. Name any of the three letters of these sites.
The secondary structure of a tRNA molecule -- with its D loop, T loop, acceptor stem, variable loop, and anticodon loop -- is often compared to this shape.
translation
A site, P site, or E site [just one is needed]
cloverleaf [prompt on leaf]
The interaction between two forms of this quantity splits energy levels in spin-orbit coupling. For 10 points each:
Name this physical quantity equal to the cross product of displacement and linear momentum and typically symbolized with a capital L.
Quantum mechanical calculations involving angular momentum are complicated because the commutator of Lx with L-y equals this constant times h-bar times L-z.
The commutation relation between this quantity and momentum is equal to i h-bar.
angular momentum [do not accept "momentum"]
i [or the square root of negative one]
position
The Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution gives the probability of a gas molecule having a given speed as a function of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which scales directly with internal energy of an ideal gas. It's measured in Kelvins.
The Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution is the basis for this theory of ideal gases. It assumes random particle motion and completely elastic collisions that result in gas pressure.
The root-mean square velocity according to the Maxwell distribution equals the square root of this quantity, times the most probable speed. The internal energy of a monoatomic ideal gas equals this value times RT.
absolute temperature
kinetic theory of gases
3/2 [or 1.5; or 1 1/2]
Many cases of situs inversus, an exceedingly rare condition where visceral organs develop mirrored, or reversed, from where they should be, are due to a condition that immobilizes these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these small, hair-like projections that work in concert with structurally-similar flagella to move cells.
A specialized, non-motile cilium connects the outer segment and cell body of these photoreceptor cells, which are concentrated on the outer edges of the retina and detect light of low intensity.
Ciliogenesis requires outward intraflagellar transport, driven by this family of molecular motors that uses ATP to "walk" to the positive end of microtubules. Dyneins (DIE-neens) go the other way.
cilia [or cilium; or motile cilia; or primary cilia; or non-motile cilia]
rod cells [or rods]
kinesins
The strength of these events is usually measured by a namesake explosivity index. For 10 points each:
Name these events that produce lava and ash.
Pelean eruptions can result in these deadly events, in which a hot mixture of ash, gas, and rocks moves at very high speeds.
The eruption of Paricutin near Mexico City is a classic example of this type of eruption. These eruptions are less passive than Hawaiian eruptions because bursting gas bubbles throws lava several hundred meters into the air.
volcanic eruption [or obvious equivalent]
pyroclastic flow [or nuee ardente]
Strombolian eruption
A mathematician with this surname first studied almost periodic functions, and a physicist with this surname won a Nobel with James Rainwater for combining the shell and liquid-drop models of the nucleus. For 10 points each:
Give this surname. The physical constant a-sub-nought, which represents the average distance between an electron and proton in a hydrogen atom, is named for a physicist with this last name.
Niels Bohr arrived at his namesake radius by proposing that electron motion is confined to these fixed circular paths around the nucleus, analogous to astronomical motion.
The Bohr model only accurately reproduces spectral lines for simple atoms, like hydrogen, or this ion which has a plus-two nuclear charge.
Bohr [or Aage Bohr; or Harald Bohr; or Niels Bohr]
electronic orbits
helium-plus [or He+; prompt on helium]
The green-beard hypothesis explains this phenomenon as the result of an allele encoding a perceptible trait that others recognize and look favorably upon. For 10 points each:
Name these behaviors in which an individual decreases its own fitness to raise the fitness of another individual.
The idea of a green beard allele originates from a 1964 article by this evolutionary biologist, who devised a rule stating that organisms perform kin selection, a form of altruism, when the reproductive benefit they gain by doing the act multiplied by the relatedness between the two organisms outweighs the reproductive cost.
The "carpenter" type of these insects engages in a suicidal form of altruism by self-destructing and leaving behind a sticky secretion to warn its colonies about predators. These insects form colonies in namesake "hills" and leave trails of formic acid.
altruism [accept word forms]
W. D. Hamilton [or William Donald Hamilton; or Bill Hamilton]
ants
Organic forms of these devices can be deposited on flexible substrates and utilize passive-matrix or activematrix addressing. For 10 points each:
Name these semiconductor devices that produce photons via spontaneous emission. Development of a blue example of these devices won Akasaki, Amano, and Nakamura the 2014 Nobel in Physics.
Some OLEDs (OH-lehds) use a thin-film form of these devices to serve as switches and amplifiers. However, you're more likely to encounter the field-effect type of these devices in your daily life.
At what connection point on a MOSFET is voltage applied to create a channel, so that electrons can flow between the drain and source?
LEDs [or light-emitting-diodes]
transistors
gate [or G]
After observing Mars, this man helped popularize the idea that canals existed on the red planet. For 10 points each:
Name this American astronomer who built an observatory in Flagstaff, Arizona that is now named after him.
Lowell is best known for his search for what turned out to be this object, which was ultimately discovered by Clyde Tombaugh. In 2006, it was demoted to a dwarf planet.
In July of 2015, Pluto will be visited by this spacecraft, which will also observe Charon and other Kuiper (KIE-per) Belt objects.
Percival Lowell
Pluto
New Horizons
In the endoplasmic reticulum, the invariant chain blocks the peptide-binding cleft of this set of proteins, which is targeted by the toxic shock syndrome toxin. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins expressed only on the surface of antigen-presenting cells, which interact with CD4 molecules and present exogenously-synthesized proteins to some "helper" cells.
MHC class I and II proteins respectively interact with the "cytotoxic" and "helper" types of these immune cells, whose name indicates their production in the thymus.
 Loading of MHC Class II molecules is accomplished through this process, which is performed by dendritic cells and macrophages. In this process, cells engulf debris, particulate matter, and microorganisms up to 0.75 microns in size.
MHC II [or major histocompatibility complex II; or MHC class II; or major histocompatibility complex class III]
T cells [or T lymphocytes]
phagocytosis [or word forms; prompt on endocytosis]
Intoxicating quantities of ethanol are produced in the gut by these organisms in people suffering from autobrewery syndrome. For 10 points each:
Name this group of fungal organisms that includes the carbohydrate-fermenting Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is important in alcohol production and baking.
Haploid S. cerevisiae exist as either the "a" mating type, or a type represented with this Greek letter. This letter prefixes a common, winding secondary structure in proteins.
The Ste fungal pheromone mating factor receptors of "a" and alpha cells constitute a class of this large family of receptors composed of seven transmembrane alpha helices. They activate a namesake heterotrimeric protein, exchanging its bound GDP for GTP.
yeasts
alpha [or alpha cells; or alpha factor; or alpha helices]
GPCRs [or G protein-coupled receptors; or G protein-linked receptors; or GPLRs; prompt on seven-transmembrane domain receptors; prompt on 7TM receptors; prompt on heptahelical receptors; prompt on serpentine receptors; do not accept or prompt on "G proteins"]
One of these devices is often drawn over agar plates to sterilize them before bacteria are cultured. For 10 points each:
Name these devices which provide a convenient open flame. Flame tests are often done by passing metals over these burners, which are named for a German chemist.
Further sterilization of liquid media is often done in one of these devices, which use steam at high pressure and temperature. They can also be used to clean glassware.
You can also use this type of filtration to remove particulates from a liquid. This process usually uses a BÃ¼chner funnel and a special thick-walled flask which tolerates low pressures.
Bunsen burners
autoclaves
vacuum filtration [or suction filtration]
They were first introduced by William Rowan Hamilton and they are sometimes represented using a 2 by 2 matrix. For 10 points each:
Name this extension of the complex numbers which often uses i, j, and k, as components of its values.
Since you get a different result when you multiple quaternion A and quaternion B than if you multiplied quaternion B with quaternion A, the multiplication operator over the quaternions does not have this property.
After figuring out the defining multiplication relations of the quaternions, Hamilton was so excited he performed what action on a nearby landmark?
quaternions
commutative [accept word forms]
he carved the formulas into Broom/Brougham bridge [accept any answer that accurately describes what he did and mentions a bridge]
This organelle consists of an amorphous mass made up of ninein and the calmodulin-binding protein PCMT, as well as two cartwheel-shaped structures containing tektin, cenexin, and centrin. For 10 points each:
Name this organelle that serves as the main microtubule-organizing center of the animal cell. It is composed of two orthogonally-arranged centrioles.
Two centrosomes form during this cell division process which produces two identical, diploid cells.
The aforementioned amorphous mass, the pericentriolar material, contains the gamma isoform of this protein, whose alpha and beta forms are the building blocks of microtubules.
centrosome
mitosis
tubulin
The cI and cro proteins determine whether this virus stays in a predominantly lysogenic or lytic state. For 10 points each:
Name this model double-stranded DNA bacteriophage discovered by Esther Lederberg and frequently used as a vector for cloning recombinant DNA. It is named after a Greek letter.
The lytic cycle can be induced in the lambda phage by exposing it to light from this region in the electromagnetic spectrum, which causes DNA damage and is blocked by sunscreens.
DNA damage in the lambda prophage ultimately results in self-cleavage of LexA, which is this type of protein that can prevent either transcription or translation by binding to a silencer, operator, or promoter sequence on DNA or RNA.
lambda phage
ultraviolet [or UV]
repressors
In MO theory, the atom with a smaller value for this quantity will have the greater coefficient in the antibonding orbitals. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which describes the polarization of chemical bonds. It is high for atoms that "attract" electrons the most, like fluorine.
Mulliken's proposed electronegativity is the average of these two quantities. They are the amount of energy absorbed or released when an atom loses or gains an electron, respectively.
The Allred-Rochow scale gives electronegativity as a function of this quantity divided by atomic radius squared. This quantity equals atomic number minus a screening constant according to Slater's rules.
electronegativity
first ionization energy and first electron affinity [accept in either order; prompt on partial answers]
effective nuclear charge [or Z-effective]
A porphyritic igneous texture is formed instead of this texture when nearly-crystallized magma is suddenly ejected, creating a groundmass of smaller mineral crystals around phenocrysts. For 10 points each:
Name this igneous texture belonging to intrusive igneous rocks, such as granite, in which crystals are visible to the naked eye. In contrast, extrusive igneous rocks tend to have an aphanatic texture.
Aside from crystal size, igneous rocks can be classified into mafic or felsic based on color. Felsic rocks have a high concentration of what two most common elements in the crust? Name both.
Though it is a felsic rock, this igneous rock appears dark. This igneous rock has a glassy texture and is extremely brittle.
phaneritic texture
silicon and oxygen [or Si and O; accept in either order]
obsidian
General relativity proposes that gravity is effectively the curvature of this continuum. For 10 points each:
Name this four-dimensional construct that is represented in two dimensions on a Minkowski diagram. The distance between two events in it is called a namesake "interval."
Objects in this physical situation have motion that traces out the geodesics of spacetime. This situation occurs when an object is moving only under the influence of gravity.
According to the equivalence principle, it is impossible to determine if an object is in gravitational free fall or if it is in one of these things. An elevator is usually used as the example of one of these things.
spacetime
free fall [prompt on partial answers]
noninertial reference frame [or an accelerating reference frame; prompt on partial answers]
The cI and cro proteins determine whether this virus stays in a predominantly lysogenic or lytic state. For 10 points each:
Name this model double-stranded DNA bacteriophage discovered by Esther Lederberg and frequently used as a vector for cloning recombinant DNA. It is named after a Greek letter.
The lytic cycle can be induced in the lambda phage by exposing it to light from this region in the electromagnetic spectrum, which causes DNA damage and is blocked by sunscreens.
DNA damage in the lambda prophage ultimately results in self-cleavage of LexA, which is this type of protein that can prevent either transcription or translation by binding to a silencer, operator, or promoter sequence on DNA or RNA.
lambda phage
ultraviolet [or UV]
repressors
In MO theory, the atom with a smaller value for this quantity will have the greater coefficient in the antibonding orbitals. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which describes the polarization of chemical bonds. It is high for atoms that "attract" electrons the most, like fluorine.
Mulliken's proposed electronegativity is the average of these two quantities. They are the amount of energy absorbed or released when an atom loses or gains an electron, respectively.
The Allred-Rochow scale gives electronegativity as a function of this quantity divided by atomic radius squared. This quantity equals atomic number minus a screening constant according to Slater's rules.
electronegativity
first ionization energy and first electron affinity [accept in either order; prompt on partial answers]
effective nuclear charge [or Z-effective]
A porphyritic igneous texture is formed instead of this texture when nearly-crystallized magma is suddenly ejected, creating a groundmass of smaller mineral crystals around phenocrysts. For 10 points each:
Name this igneous texture belonging to intrusive igneous rocks, such as granite, in which crystals are visible to the naked eye. In contrast, extrusive igneous rocks tend to have an aphanatic texture.
Aside from crystal size, igneous rocks can be classified into mafic or felsic based on color. Felsic rocks have a high concentration of what two most common elements in the crust? Name both.
Though it is a felsic rock, this igneous rock appears dark. This igneous rock has a glassy texture and is extremely brittle.
phaneritic texture
silicon and oxygen [or Si and O; accept in either order]
obsidian
General relativity proposes that gravity is effectively the curvature of this continuum. For 10 points each:
Name this four-dimensional construct that is represented in two dimensions on a Minkowski diagram. The distance between two events in it is called a namesake "interval."
Objects in this physical situation have motion that traces out the geodesics of spacetime. This situation occurs when an object is moving only under the influence of gravity.
According to the equivalence principle, it is impossible to determine if an object is in gravitational free fall or if it is in one of these things. An elevator is usually used as the example of one of these things.
spacetime
free fall [prompt on partial answers]
noninertial reference frame [or an accelerating reference frame; prompt on partial answers]
The British patient Clive Wearing was rare in that he had both the retrograde and anterograde forms of this disorder at the same time, leading him to feel that he had just awakened about once every 20 seconds. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the inability to form or retain memories.
Anterograde amnesia often results from a failure of this process, by which new perceptions enter short-term memory. It comes before storage and retrieval in 3-stage models of memory.
This number range was posited as the maximum number of "chunks" of information an average person's shortterm memory could encode in a highly-cited paper subtitled "Some Limits on Our Capacity for Processing Information" by George Miller. 
amnesia
encoding [accept word forms such as encode; do not accept "coding"]
the magical number seven, plus or minus two [accept five to nine; prompt on seven]
This disease is responsible for trachoma (track-oma) infection, which can cause blindness due to chronic inflammation and ulceration of the cornea from eyelid scarring and inturned eyelashes. For 10 points each:
Name this curable disease transmitted by the trachomatis species of a namesake genus. This disease, gonorrhea, and syphilis are the most common sexually-transmitted bacterial diseases in the US.
Chlamydia and gonorrhea put women at a high risk for developing this disorder, which can cause pain and infertility due to permanent damage to the uterus, ovaries, and other structures in a namesake abdominal region.
The mucopurulent type of inflammation of this structure can be caused by Chlamydia infection. HPV infection accounts for more than 90% of cases of the cancer arising from this structure.
Chlamydia [or Chlamydia trachomatis; prompt on C. trachomatis]
pelvic inflammatory disease [or PID; prompt on partial answer]
cervix uteri [or uterine cervix; or word forms, like cervical; prompt on uterus]
In the presence of sodium hydroxide, glucose gets oxidized, turning the solution this color, in a common classroom experiment. For 10 points each:
Name this color. Litmus paper turns this color in basic solutions.
A blue sphere represents this element in CPK models. In modelling kits, this element is usually only allowed to form three bonds, since it gets a positive charge if its entire octet is used for bonding.
Prussian blue pigment is composed of iron linked to several of these ions. This ion is used industrially to leach gold and silver out of the soil, and it is isoelectronic to nitrogen gas.
blue [or specific shades of blue]
nitrogen [or N]
cyanide [or CN-]
Answer the following about cyclic quadrilaterals, for 10 points each:
Cyclic quadrilaterals are cool because, unlike most quadrilaterals, they can be inscribed in one of these geometric shapes. These shapes are conic sections with eccentricity zero.
The easiest way to check if a quadrilateral is cyclic is to check if this condition is true of its angles. This fact is the case because an inscribed angle equals half the measure of the arc it subtends.
Brahmagupta's formula for the area of a cyclic quadrilateral makes use of this quantity, denoted s, equal to half the sum of the side lengths of a polygon. For a triangle, area equals this quantity times inradius.
circles
 the opposite angles of the quadrilateral add up to 180 degrees [accept opposite angles add up to pi radians or any equivalent phrasings such as opposite angles are supplementary]
semiperimeter
Identify the following about some properties of algorithms, for 10 points each.
Problems in this computational complexity class can be solved by an efficient algorithm. A difficult unsolved problem in computational complexity theory is whether this class is equal, or not equal, to NP.
An in-place algorithms does not perform more than a constant amount of this type of operation, which can be performed in C using malloc (M AHL-ock). A specific type of this operation can be performed in Java using the "new" keyword.
This adjective describes algorithms that do not change the relative order of the input set. For instance, a card sorting algorithm with this property would preserve the order of suits between cards of the same face value.
P [or PTIME; or polynomial time]
memory allocation [or allocating new memory; prompt on creating an object; prompt on obvious equivalents]
stable [or stability]
The Clay Mathematics Institute awards one million dollars for the correct solution to any of these problems. For 10 points each:
Name this set of seven problems that includes the Hodge Conjecture. The Poincare conjecture is the only one of these problems to have been solved.
One of the Millennium Prize Problems is to prove or disprove that the nontrivial zeroes of this function have a real part of one-half. Over ten trillion zeroes of this function have been verified to have that property, but the problem remains unsolved.
Evaluating the Riemann zeta function at this value yields ApÃ©ry's constant. Almost all numbers can be written as a sum of at most this many squares.
Millennium prize problems
Riemann zeta function [prompt on Riemann hypothesis]
three
The normalization of a Slater determinant equals one over the square root of this function of the number of electrons. For 10 points each:
Name this function. To avert the Gibbs paradox, this function of the number of indistinguishable gas particles must be included in the partition function as a normalization factor.
The factorial term is necessary because the number of these things decreases if the particles are indistinguishable. Boltzmann's formula for entropy takes the natural log of the number of these things.
Defects in these objects also have factorial-dependent entropy. The entropy of these perfectly-ordered, periodic systems is zero at absolute zero.
factorial
microstates
crystals [or lattices; or word forms]
Psittacosis and hantavirus are characterized as this type of infectious disease, the opposite of anthroponotic diseases. For 10 points each:
Name this class of diseases in which a pathogen infecting an animal reservoir can be transmitted to humans, with or without vectors, but is not dependent on humans to complete its life cycle.
People living in close proximity to animals are often exposed to neglected zoonoses described with this term. This adjective denotes diseases that are naturally maintained at a steady state within a population, unlike epidemics.
This zoonotic disease is endemic among rodents in the rural southwest, although human infection with its Yersinia pestis pathogen is very rare in the US. Lymph nodes swell in its bubonic form.
zoonotic disease [or zoonosis; or zoonoses]
endemic
plague [or bubonic plague; or pneumonic plague]
This adjective describes the work along a hypothetical path over which the action is minimized. For 10 points each:
Name this adjective that also describes the type of image that a convex mirror will always form.
The principle of stationary action is used in this branch of mechanics, a reformulation of Newtonian physics. It first introduced generalized coordinates and predicts a particle's motion using variational calculus.
The Lagrangian itself is defined as the difference between these two forms of energy, which are symbolized T and U. One of them is a result of moving objects, and the other is caused by an external force field.
virtual
Lagrangian mechanics
kinetic and potential energy [prompt on partial answers]
Osteolathyrism is caused by the chelation of the copper ion in an enzyme that oxidizes this amino acid, which is methylated three times in residue 115 of calmodulin. For 10 points each:
Name this basic amino acid that forms a Schiff base with retinaldehyde and contains a side chain consisting of four carbon atoms and a terminal NH3 group.
Hydroxylated derivatives of lysine and proline appear in this abundant structural protein, which consists of three left-handed helices twisted together into a single right-handed triple helix. It is the most abundant protein in mammals.
The hydroxylation of lysine in collagen requires this vitamin as a cofactor. Its deficiency, which causes scurvy, has long been combated with citrus fruits.
lysine [or Lys; or K]
collagen
Vitamin C [or ascorbic acid; or ascorbate]
I-cells in this organ release cholecystokinin, which targets the pancreas and gallbladder to secrete substances important for amino acid and fat digestion. For 10 points each:
Name this digestive organ that receives pancreatic juices through the sphincter of Oddi, which connects with its duodenum region.
The small intestine's Paneth cells belong to this type of major tissue that lines the surfaces and cavities of organs. Mucus-releasing goblet cells belong to the simple columnar subtype of this tissue.
Paneth cells contain large refractile granules that stain with this acidic dye, which is coupled with hematoxylin in a namesake stain. A granulocyte named for its affinity for this dye is important in defense against parasites.
small intestine [or small bowel; prompt on partial answer; prompt on bowel; prompt on entrails]
epithelial tissue [or epithelium; or columnar epithelium]
eosin [or eosin Y; or eosinophilic; prompt on H &amp; E]
For the number zero, this function outputs one. For 10 points each:
Name this function, often represented with an exclamation mark, which for a number n, is the product of all numbers from one to n.
In his Methodus Differentialis, this 17th century mathematician introduced his namesake approximation for the factorial function, which states that for large n, n-factorial is a constant multiple of n over e, all to the n.
Stirling's approximation was first proposed by this other mathematician, who names an equation stating "cosine of x plus i times sine of x all to the nth power equals cosine of n times x plus i times the sin of n times x"
factorial function
James Stirling [accept Stirling's approximation]
Abraham De Moivre [do not prompt or accept on "Moivre"]
The vacuum permeability is divided by this constant in the Biot-Savart Law. For 10 points each:
Name this constant that is multiplied by ten to the negative seventh power to give the exact value of the vacuum permeability.
The Biot-Savart law can be used to calculate the field inside one of these devices, which consist of a wire wrapped around a metallic core to give a strong electromagnet.
According to Coulomb's Law, this quantity equals the product of two charges, divided by four pi times the vacuum permittivity, divided by the distance between the charges squared.
four pi [or approximately 12.57; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
solenoids
electrostatic force [or F]
Using observations on the star RW Draconis, Sergey Blazhko found variations in this quantity and amplitude for RR Lyrae Stars. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is a measure of how frequently a star pulsates. Henrietta Swan Leavitt derived a relation between luminosity and this quantity for Cepheid (SEH-fee-id) variable stars.
Cepheid variables are an essential part of the cosmic ladder for this quantity, which is often measured in parsecs and astronomical units.
Because these events all have the same maximum absolute magnitude on their light curve, one can measure the peak light output and use the inverse square law to calculate the distance at which these events occurred.
period
distance [or obvious equivalents]
type Ia (one a) supernovae [prompt on supernovae] 
Ponceau S staining can be used to check the effectiveness and uniformity of transfer during this technique. For 10 points each:
Identify this technique in which proteins can be detected in a tissue extract by subjecting them to gel electrophoresis, transferring them to a membrane, and staining them with target antibodies. It is named after a cardinal direction, not a person.
Western blot membranes are often made from a nitric-acid treated derivative of this polysaccharide found in plant cell walls 
In Western blotting, antibody recognition can be aided with a c-myc-derived type of these short peptide sequences tacked onto proteins for various purposes. Polyhistidine is a common "affinity" type of this sequence useful in purifying proteins.
Western blot [or protein immunoblot]
cellulose
protein tags [or epitope tags; accept word forms, like tagging]
A common rule of thumb for evaluating contributions from resonance structures is that this quantity should be minimized for each atom. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which is similar to an oxidation state, but does not take electronegativity into account. For the carbon atom in carbon monoxide, this quantity is positive one.
In a carbene, an electron-deficient carbon atom which forms exactly two bonds and has a lone pair will have this formal charge. The nitrogen atom in nitric oxide has this formal charge.
To assign either formal charge or oxidation state, it's critical to draw one of these diagrams, which represent lone pairs using two dots and bonds using lines. They're named for an American chemist.
formal charge [or FC; prompt on charge]
zero [or neutral charge]
Lewis dot structure [or a Lewis diagram]
After leaving this region, impulses travel along namesake left and right branches running along the interventricular septum. For 10 points each:
Identify this set of cardiac muscle cells that transmits electrical impulses to the Purkinje fibers.
 Impulses traveling to the bundle of His, and across the left and right bundle branches, correspond to the PR interval observed in the readout of this medical technique, which places ten electrodes on the chest and limbs of a patient to monitor their heart's electrical activity.
The conduction system of the heart originates at the sinoatrial node, which is given this nickname for its ability to generate rhythmic impulses by contracting. A medical device with this name is implanted into the heart and generates those impulses artificially.
bundle of His [prompt on partial answer]
electrocardiogram [or EKG; or ECG]
pacemaker [accept word forms]
A bacterium with this shape uses the siderophore proteins IsdX1 and IsdX2 to scavenge heme from hemoglobin, and can unusually synthesize a polyglutamate protein capsule. For 10 points each:
Identify this shape of the causative agents of "fried rice syndrome," and anthrax, and other members of the genus Bacillus. The three most common bacterial morphologies are twisted, spherical, and this shape.
Like all Gram-positive bacteria, species of genus Bacillus have a thick layer of peptidoglycan in this outermost protective structure which surrounds the cell membrane and is absent in animals.
This other genus of Gram-positive bacteria includes species sordelii, which can cause a rare fatal infection after abortions, species tetani, which causes tetanus, and the causative agent of botulism, botulinum.
rod-shaped
cell wall [prompt on wall]
Clostridium 
The solubility of complexes with this ligand are pH-dependent. For 10 points each:
Name this anion which bonds to alkali and alkaline earth metals in many strong bases.
Many metallic hydroxides also demonstrate this property, in which they will both accept and donate electron pairs in solution. Zinc oxide also has this property.
Oddly, this element's hydroxide salt is only an acid, and not a base. A bridging hydrogen atom can link two atoms of this element together using only two total electrons in a complex similar to many carbocations.
hydroxide [or OH-]
amphoteric [or amphoterism; prompt on amphiprotic or word forms] 
boron [or B]
The genes KAPP and WUS regulate the complex CLV signaling pathway maintaining a balance between four cell groups in one type of this tissue. For 10 points each:
Name these tissues consisting of undifferentiated cells in plants. The "apical" variety can be found at the tips of roots and shoots.
Primary meristems may differentiate into this form of thin-walled ground tissue, which remains meristematic after differentiation and forms the mesophyll in leaves.
Meristematic cells are often compared to these undifferentiated animal cells, which have different levels of potency, such as totipotent and pluripotent, and broadly come in "adult" and "embryonic" forms.
meristems
parenchyma [or parenchymal tissue]
stem cells
Intravenously-administered arginine stimulates the secretion of this hormone, whose receptor is antagonized by pegvisomant and is unresponsive in Laron syndrome. For 10 points each:
Name this oft-abused hormone produced in the anterior pituitary whose secretion is inhibited by somatostatin. As the name might suggest, it is underproduced in many kinds of dwarfism, and overproduced in gigantism.
Growth hormone is also released during times of stress, much like this catecholamine that controls the fight-orflight response with norepinephrine.
The hypothalamus regulates growth hormone production by secreting GHRH, which then travels through the "hypophyseal" type of this kind of blood vessel system, in which a capillary bed pools to another capillary bed through veins without going through the heart. Another one supplies the liver.
human growth hormone [or HGH; or somatotropin; or somatropin]
epinephrine [or adrenaline; or beta-3,4-trihydroxy-N-methylphenethylamine]
portal venous system
The worst assumption of the McCabe-Thiele method is that this quantity is constant and identical for each component. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which is divided by the gas constant in the most common formulation of the ClausiusClapeyron equation. This latent heat is low for volatile compounds.
 At this point, the heat of vaporization goes to zero, because it is no longer possible to distinguish between liquids and vapors.
By the Clapeyron equation, the derivative of vapor pressure with respect to temperature equals this quantity over the change in volume. This quantity equals the heat of vaporization divided by the boiling point.
heat of vaporization [or enthalpy of vaporization; or heat of evaporation; or delta H vap; prompt on enthalpy or heat]
 critical point
entropy of vaporization [or delta S vap]
 Answer the following about directions in the atmospheric and earth sciences, for 10 points each.
In the Northern Hemisphere, the winds around a low pressure area flow in this direction, forming a cyclone.
When a fault's slip is approximately horizontal, it is parallel to this property of the fault surface. This property of a fault thus names a type of "slip" fault.
The Kuroshio and Agulhas Currents are classified as this type of boundary current, denoting their place in the ocean gyres of which they are a member. This term is also applied to the "intensification" those boundary currents exhibit.
counter-clockwise [or anti-clockwise; or CCW; do not accept "clockwise" or "CW"]
fault strike
western [or obvious equivalents]
At small angles of displacement, pendulums closely approximate this type of system. For 10 points each:
Name this type of physical system, exemplified by a mass on a spring, in which the restoring force is directly proportional to displacement.
The effect of this force on an oscillator's magnitude is determined by the discriminant of the characteristic equation for the system. An oscillator approaches zero amplitude fastest when the coefficient of this force is equal to the oscillator's resonant frequency.
Pencil and paper ready. An oscillator is described by the second-order differential equation m times d-squared-x over d-t-squared, plus c times d-x over d-t, plus k times x, equals 0. What is the discriminant of the characteristic equation for this oscillator?
simple harmonic oscillator [or HO; or SHO]
damping force [or word forms, such as damped]
c squared minus 4 times m times k [or mathematical equivalents; do not prompt on partial answers]
For 10 points each, answer the following about proof techniques.
This common proof technique involves assuming that a statement is true, and then showing that it would lead to a known falsehood, meaning the original statement cannot be true.
This mathematician used a proof by contradiction to demonstrate the infinitude of the primes. He also wrote The Elements
Abbreviated w.l.o.g., this four-word phrase is sometimes invoked to show that certain assumptions can be made without invalidating the proof. 
proof by contradiction
Euclid
without loss of generality
You can prevent a book from falling by pressing on it against a wall, even though you're only applying a horizontal force. For 10 points each:
The horizontal force you apply on the book is exactly equal in magnitude to this force, which is proportional to the frictional force, and is perpendicular to the surface of contact.
If the book does not move, then this quantity equals the weight of the book divided by your applied force. For a stationary object on a ramp, this quantity equals the tangent of the angle of repose.
If friction can be neglected, and the book is in free fall, then its velocity at any given point will be a function only of the height H it has fallen, and gravitational acceleration g. In terms of g and H, what is its velocity?
normal force [or N]
coefficient of static friction [or static friction coefficient; or mu-sub-s]
the square root of two times g times H [or square root 2 g H; or mathematical equivalents]
Adding a term for the work done by the surroundings and a term for the viscous dissipation to this equation gives its "engineering" form. For 10 points each:
Name this equation which states that an increase in fluid velocity results in a decrease in pressure.
Bernoulli's equation is a statement of this principle for fluids. Another statement of this principle is the first law of thermodynamics.
Bernoulli's equation is derived by integrating the Euler equation of motion along one of these constructs. These constructs are parallel to the local velocity vector at all points. A closed loop of them forms a similarly-named "tube".
Bernoulli's equation
conservation of energy [or word forms; prompt on conservation law]
streamlines
Interferon-gamma activates the "induced" form of the enzyme that produces this compound, which can be measured in a breath test for asthma. For 10 points each:
Name this compound which binds to guanylate cyclase receptors, stimulating the production of cGMP and then protein kinase G, in a pathway that is promoted by Viagra.
Nitric oxide acts as a vasodilator, relaxing this tissue, which is found in the uterus, bladder, and the endothelial walls of blood vessels. It lacks striations and exists as a syncytium, or a multinucleated mass of unseparated cytoplasm.
By acting as a vasodilator, nitric oxide regulates this property of blood, which is reported as two values for the systole and diastole, and is typically 120 over 80 millimeters mercury.
nitric oxide [or NO; or nitrogen oxide; or nitrogen monoxide]
smooth muscle [prompt on muscle]
blood pressure
These proteins, whose prefix changes to "cryo" when they become insoluble at low temperatures, circulate in the bloodstream and target red blood cells in cold agglutinin disease. For 10 points each:
Name these Y-shaped immune proteins made of two heavy and two light chains, which are produced by plasma B cells and recognize antigens.
The anti-IgG antibodies in mixed cryoglobulinemia are versions of namesake factors elevated in this autoimmune disease, which is characterized by nodules on joints and inflamed synovial membranes. It is named for its resemblance to an acute fever.
These antibodies, which are produced from B cells with identical lineages, are responsible for type I cryoglobulinemia. Synthetic ones are often administered as drugs whose names end with the suffix "mab."
antibodies [or immunoglobulins]
rheumatoid arthritis [prompt on arthritis; accept RA]
monoclonal antibodies
This compound comes in "high-density" and "low-density" forms depending on its level of branching. For 10 points each:
Name this substance formed by the radical addition of two-carbon alkenes. It is usually represented as a C2H4 group inside brackets, subscripted with an n.
Increasing chain length increases the melting point of polyethylene due to an increase in the strength of these forces caused by induced dipoles. They're a class of van der Waals forces.
Polyethylene polymerization continues until a termination step, such as this one, in which two radicals react to form an alkane and an alkene. The conversion of superoxide into a peroxide and oxygen gas is this type of reaction.
polyethylene [prompt on ethylene]
London dispersion forces [or London dispersion forces]
disproportionation [or radical disproportionation; prompt on redox; prompt on reduction; prompt on oxidation]
Chapters in this book are titled "The Gee-Whiz Graph" and "The Semiattached Figure." For 10 points each:
Name this 1954 book by Darrell Huff, which teaches readers about how people misuse the results of a field of mathematical inquiry.
In How to Lie With Statistics, misleading studies with low values for this number are discussed. It is usually represented by a lower-case n, and is the number of data points being considered in a statistical observation.
How to Lie With Statistics also examines the post hoc fallacy, which is similar to this short phrase often given as a warning to intro social sciences students. This phrase reminds people that two variables might have linked rates of incidence without either being responsible for the other.
How to Lie With Statistics
sample size
Correlation does not imply causation [or Correlation is not causation; or Correlation doesn't imply causation; accept any answer negating the idea that correlation could be equated to or used as valid evidence of causation]
Moderator note: do not read the alternate answers to the first part. During its "regeneration" phase, an enzyme unique to this pathway cleaves a phosphate ion from sedoheptulose- 1,7-bisphosphate. For 10 points each:
Name this set of photosynthetic reactions that fixes carbon, reduces NADPH, and regenerates RuBP. It is named for a Berkeley chemist, and is mistakenly called the light-independent reactions.
The Calvin cycle takes place in the stroma, a fluid-filled part of the chloroplast surrounding these membranebound compartments that stack up to form grana.
The Calvin cycle shares enzymes like transketolase and intermediates, such as xylulose 5-phosphate, with this other pathway, which parallels glycolysis, reduces NADP+, and produces five-carbon sugars.
Calvin cycle [or CalvinÂ–BensonÂ–Bassham cycle; or CBB cycle; or reductive pentose phosphate cycle; prompt on dark reactions; do not accept or prompt on "pentose phosphate" alone]
thylakoids
pentose phosphate pathway [or phosphogluconate pathway; or hexose monophosphate shunt; or HMP shunt]
Name some things related to the most recent edition of the American Psychological Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the DSM-5, for 10 points each.
The DSM-5 controversially eliminated the bereavement clause from the diagnostic criteria for this disorder, which is often characterized by melancholy, a lack of motivation, and anhedonia.
The DSM-5 introduced dubious Disruptive Mood Dysregulation Disorder, which can only be diagnosed in this specific group of people. It also incorporated the DSM-IV's chapter devoted to disorders often found in this group of people.
Some psychologists posit that DMDD was introduced in response to a huge spike in diagnoses of this disorder in children, which is often treated with a combination of antipsychotics and mood stabilizers like Zyprexa, Depakote (DEH-puh-kote) and Lamictal.
depression [or major depressive disorder; or MDD; or dysthymia; or chronic depression; do not accept "manic depression"]
children [or infants; or toddlers; or adolescents; or teenagers; or kids; or equivalents]
bipolar disorder [or bipolar I disorder; or bipolar II disorder; or bipolar not otherwise specified; or bipolar not elsewhere defined; or bipolar disorder rapid cycling]
You're on a boat! Answer some questions about the physics going on around you, for 10 points each.
When you want to figure out the speed and direction of the true wind, you can subtract your boat's velocity from the apparent wind's velocity since velocity is this kind of construct with both magnitude and direction.
To determine the stability of your boat, you'd want to draw one of these diagrams that depict the relative magnitudes and directions of all the forces on an object.
If you were on a space boat, you might be able to use solar sails as a low-propulsion method of navigating the Solar System. Solar sails are driven by this quantity, the force per unit area that electromagnetic waves exert on a surface.
vectors
free body diagram [or FBD]
radiation pressure
Staphylococci and Micrococci are "positive" in a test for this enzyme, which was crystallized from beef liver in 1937 by Alexander Dounce and James B. Sumner. For 10 points each:
Name this extremely-fast enzyme that helps convert hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen. It is rather generically named for the general purpose that all enzymes serve.
Catalase also contributes to the hangover-producing metabolism of this compound to acetaldehyde, though the majority of that process is carried out by a namesake dehydrogenase in the liver.
Catalase, glutathione, and superoxide dismutase act as these types of molecules that scavenge reactive oxygen species and other free radicals to protect cells and tissues from injury.
catalase
ethanol [or ethyl alcohol; or drinking alcohol]
antioxidants
Enrico Fermi's Nobel Prize came for discovering new elements by bombarding uranium with these particlesÂ— except, actually, the new elements were really isotopes of lighter elements. For 10 points each:
Name these neutral particles that are fired at uranium to induce nuclear fission.
In beta decay, a neutron decays into an electron, a proton, and an antineutrino with the help of this intermediate particle, which has a negative charge and a mass of 80 GeV. It forms when a down quark turns into an up quark.
The existence of the W and Z bosons was supported by the discovery of weak neutral currents in one of these devices at CERN named for Gargamelle. These devices detect charged particles moving through a superheated liquid.
neutrons
W minus boson [prompt on partial answers]
bubble chambers
Answering the following about "clock arithmetic," for 10 points each:
For two numbers a and b, this operation returns the remainder when a is divided by b. In "clock arithmetic", we work [this word] 12, so 7+7 is equivalent to 2.
When dividing an equivalence relation in some modulus, one must divide the number you're modding by by this function of the modulus and the number you divide by. For two numbers m and n, this number is the largest number which divides both m and n.
This other result from number theory is often used in secret sharing protocols and relates systems of linear congruences whose moduli are co-prime to a single congruence.
modulo [or modulus]
gcd [accept greatest common divisor, greatest common factor,greatest common measure, highest common divisor, highest common factor, highest common measure or any abbreviations thereof]
Chinese remainder theorem
Sewall Wright's F-statistics were originally devised as a way to quantify this phenomenon in a cattle population. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which organisms that are genetically closely-related produce offspring. It reduces fitness by making homozygous recessive traits more likely in offspring.
The likelihood of inbreeding dramatically increases after one of these events, in which the size of a population sharply falls due to an environmental catastrophe like a fire or an earthquake. The founder effect is sometimes considered a special case of this phenomenon.
In angiosperms, pollen germination, pollen tube growth, ovule fertilization, or embryo development are halted if a pollen grain produced by a plant attaches to the stigma of a genetically similar plant, preventing inbreeding via a mechanism described by this term.
inbreeding [or word forms such as inbred]
bottleneck effect [or population bottleneck]
self-incompatibility [or SI; or word forms, like self-incompatible]
Lungfishes, amphibians, and reptiles have "hearts" that pump this substance, which in the human body is squeezed out of the popliteal fossa during walking. For 10 points each:
Name this liquid composed of a mixture of plasma and interstitial cells, which passes through namesake "nodes" before mixing with blood.
The lymph that forms in the digestive system is rich in these lipid esters, which are derived from glycerol and a certain number of free fatty acids. Elevated levels of these compounds raise the risk of cardiovascular disease, even in the absence of high cholesterol.
These regions of lymphoid tissue in the back of the throat can obstruct the airways if they become inflamed, so they are often surgically removed.
lymph
triglycerides [or triacylglycerol; or triacylglycerides; or TG; or TAG]
tonsils [or Waldeyer's tonsillar ring; or adenoid tonsils; or tubal tonsils; or palatine tonsils; or lingual tonsils; or adenoid]
A "fleshy" structure of this kind called the galbulus is produced by junipers and cypresses. For 10 points each:
Name these geometrically-elegant reproductive structures consisting of scales arranged spirally in accordance to the Fibonacci ratio, that are produced by the most abundant group of gymnosperms.
Conifer cones produce these structures, consisting of an embryonic plant and surrounding stored food, encapsulated in a coat. Flowering plants use fruits to disseminate these objects.
This living fossil, a unique species of tree in its own order within the gymnosperms, is native to China and has unusually fan-shaped leaves growing on erratic branches.
cones
seeds
Ginkgo biloba [or gingko; or maidenhair tree]
A function has this property when "f of a equals f of b" if and only if a equals b. For 10 points each:
Name this property of functions, which means that they do not output to the same value more than once.
This is the set of values that a function outputs, in contrast to its inputs, or the domain.
Given the graph of a function, one can tell if it is injective using a test named for one of these things. The arctangent function has two different asymptotes of this type.
injectivity [accept word forms, accept one-to-one, but do not accept "one to one correspondence"]
range [or image]
horizontal lines/asymptotes
A way to optimize this algorithm when facing the "Dutch national flag problem" is to take a "fat pivot" that includes items equal to the pivot. For 10 points each:
Identify this speedy divide-and-conquer sorting algorithm developed by Tony Hoare. In the ordinary variant of this algorithm, items less than or greater than the pivot are placed into two sub-arrays.
In order to avoid this worst case runtime of quicksort, the input data is often randomized before starting the sort. It is infamously the average case runtime for bubble sort. Express your answer in big O notation.
Randomization is used in these types of algorithms, which have deterministic runtimes but aren't guaranteed to produce correct results. These methods were first developed by Stanislaw Ulam and implemented by John von Neumann on the ENIAC.
quicksort
big O of n squared [or quadratic; or obvious equivalents; prompt on polynomial or algebraic]
Monte Carlo algorithms [or Monte Carlo methods]
The exponential in its equation is equal to this law's namesake constant times the speed of light, times beta, over wavelength. For 10 points each:
Name this law, which proposes that the amount of energy radiated is maximized at a single wavelength, unlike classical predictions, which suggested the intensity diverged as wavelength decreases.
According to Wien's Law, the wavelength of maximum intensity times this quantity is a constant. As a result, this quantity is a good indicator of the color any radiative emitter, such as a star, or a flame.
Integrated over all wavelengths, the total intensity radiated from a non-ideal absorber is proportional to temperature to the fourth times this other quantity, which is between 0 and 1 for so-called "gray" bodies.
Planck's law of blackbody radiation [or Planck's radiation law]
absolute temperature [or T]
emissivity [or epsilon]
According to the breeder's equation, the response to selection is equal to the selection strength times the narrow-sense version of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this term that refers to the genetic component of observed differences in a trait.
Human trait heritability is typically estimated by studying people bearing this relationship to one another. The University of Minnesota is the site of an ongoing longitudinal study of these people, who share roughly 50% of their genetic material if they are dizygotic.
Ronald Fisher proved that the rate of increase in this quantity is proportional to its additive genetic variance. Natural selection is often summed up as the "survival" of the people with the most of this attribute, the ability for an organism to reproduce in a given environment.
heritability [or h-squared; accept word forms]
twins [prompt on siblings; prompt on brothers; prompt on sisters]
fitness [accept fittest and other word forms]
This phenomenon occurs in the resting frame in Bell's spaceship paradox, explaining why the string breaks. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that explains how a pole traveling near the speed of light can fit in a barn that is normally too small to completely contain it.
 Length contraction and time dilation are two consequences of this theory proposed by Albert Einstein, which rests on the assumptions of a constant speed of light and no preferred reference frame.
With Alexander Rankine, this physicist showed that length contraction does not occur in the rest reference frame. Between 1901 and 1903, he and H.R. Noble found that Earth did not move relative to the ether.
length contraction [or Lorentz contraction]
special relativity [or SR; prompt on relativity]
Frederick Thomas Trouton
This statement can be used to prove Fick's Second Law, given Fick's First Law and no reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this principle demonstrated by Lavoisier when he burned a piece of wood and showed that the total weight remained constant. It's the basis of stoichiometry.
In stoichiometry, the limiting reactant is the one where the concentration, divided by this parameter, is the smallest. The stoichiometric ratio is the ratio of two of these values.
For any species, the stoichiometric coefficient is guaranteed to be the same as this quantity if the reaction is elementary. This quantity is empirically determined using the method of initial rates.
law of conservation of mass [or a mass balance]
stoichiometric coefficients
reaction order with respect to each species
Cramer's theorem can be used to find the value of a variable in one of these problems. For 10 points each:
Identify these collections of constraints where every variable has degree one. There is a unique solution if there are exactly as many independent constraints as there are variables.
Cramer's rule gives each variable to be the quotient of two of these functions. This function of the 2 by 2 matrix a b c d is equal to a times d minus b times c.
Systems where the zero vector is a solution are referred to by this word. A function is said to be [this word] of degree k if scaling all the inputs by lambda scales the function's value by lambda to the kth power.
system of linear equations [or linear system]
determinant
homogeneous functions/systems
The anti-alpha 1 adrenergic receptor drugs tamsulosin and siludosin treat benign enlargments of this organ, which is homologous to Skene's glands in women. For 10 points each:
Name this reproductive gland that adds alkalinity to semen. It is affected by a cancer very common among older men that can be assessed with a rectal examination.
The ejaculatory duct that passes through the prostate forms from the union between the seminal vessel duct and this structure, which transports sperm away from the epididymis and is cut in a method of male contraception.
Prostatic secretions also contain trace amounts of this metal, which appears in the active sites of the enzymes carboxypeptidase, carbonic anhydrase, and alcohol dehydrogenase. Two cysteines and two histidines coordinate to it in a common structural motif.
prostate gland
vas deferens [or vasa deferentia; or ductus deferens; or ductus deferentes]
zinc [or Zn2+]
Answer the following about Newton's law of universal gravitation, for 10 points each.
 In SI units, the proportionality constant, big G, for Newton's law of universal gravitation is equal to 6.67 times 10 to what power?
In the Principia, Newton derived this equation in the case that universal gravitation is the centripetal force. This law sets the orbital radius cubed proportional to the orbital period squared.
Inside the radius of the Earth, the gravitational force is proportional to this other power of the radius. Inside a uniformly charged, spherical, insulating material, the electric field is proportional to this power of the radius.
minus eleven [or obvious equivalents, such as negative eleven]
Kepler's third law [prompt on partial answers]
one [or first power; or linear dependence]
Answer the following about female mathematicians, for 10 points each:
In 2014, Stanford mathematician Maryam Mirzakhani became the first woman to win this "Nobel Prize of Mathematics", given to the top mathematicians under the age of 40.
This German mathematician did groundbreaking work in ring theory, but you might know her better for her namesake physics theorem, which basically states that symmetries have associated conservation laws.
This French mathematician worked primarily in number theory, proving Fermat's Last Theorem for small odd prime exponents. She corresponded often with Gauss.
Fields Medal
Emmy Noether
Sophie Germain
The central carbon atom of an allene has this hybridization. For 10 points each:
Name this hybridization which is possessed by the carbon atoms in acetylene and carbon dioxide.
sp-hybridized atoms often form this type of rigid covalent bond, which is composed of one sigma and two pi bonds. Acetylene, the simplest alkyne, forms this type of bond.
A lone pair would be placed in one of these molecular orbitals in MO theory. These orbitals lie on the mid-line in a Frost circle, and do not contribute to the bond order.
sp [do not accept or prompt on "sp2" or "sp3"]
triple bond
non-bonding molecular orbitals [or NBMOs]
Unlike processes, these things share a common virtual address space, and a program may wait for one of these things to finish executing by calling the join method. For 10 points each:
Identify these constructs often used in parallel programming. A common way to pause a program in Java is to call the sleep method on one of these things.
Processes and threads are managed by a scheduler, which is part of this type of software that manages the interactions between the hardware and software on a computer. Examples include Windows and Linux.
One way to trigger this type of condition is to have logic that depends on the specific order of threads being fired. Not to be confused with a deadlock, this unpredictable condition can happen when two threads read and write to the same variable at the same time.
threads
operating systems [or OSes]
race condition [or race hazard]
Raymond Lindeman discovered a principle concerning these diagrams in which 10% of the energy in each level is transferred to the next. For 10 points each:
Name these triangular diagrams used to illustrate the amount of biomass or energy in each level of an ecosystem.
At the base of trophic pyramids are these organisms that, unlike consumers, are capable of making their own food through photosynthesis or chemosynthesis.
Ecosystems with very high turnover in primary producers, such as many aquatic ecosystems, may take on a shape described by this adjective. Such pyramids have more biomass in consumers than producers.
trophic pyramids [or ecological pyramids; prompt on pyramid]
primary producers [or autotrophs]
inverted pyramids
This value is multiplied by the rate of voltage change to give the displacement current. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity measured in farads.
This value is equal to the product of R and C for an RC circuit. This value is symbolized tau and is the point at which the capacitor has reached or lost roughly 63% of its maximum charge.
Finding the capacitance of a coaxial cable involves finding the electric field between the cable's inner and outer layers using this one of Maxwell's equations. It relates electric flux through a closed surface to charge enclosed by the surface.
capacitance
RC time constant
Gauss's law
The ecliptic is the path of the sun on this construct. For 10 points each:
Name this sphere of arbitrarily large size, centered on the earth. The stars in the sky are often imagined to be projected onto the inner side of this construct.
The right ascension used to define the celestial sphere uses the "vernal" one of these days as a reference point. These days are contrasted with solstices and mark the beginning of spring and autumn.
The tilt that causes the ecliptic and the seasons are one component of these "cycles" named for a Serbian scientist, which help describe the periodic variation in the Earth's climate.
celestial sphere
equinox [accept word forms]
Milutin Milankovic
Steam is superheated in the Rankine cycle to avoid completely destroying these devices with excess liquid. For 10 points each:
Name these devices which convert high-pressure steam to electrical energy in power plants, and are used inside of windmills to generate power.
A gas turbine engine following the Brayton cycle will undergo this process at constant pressure. This heatproducing process occurs at constant volume in an Otto engine, but at constant pressure in a Diesel engine.
This type of engine uses a modified Brayton cycle inside a closed system, which contains its own oxidants, rather than air. These engines increase in performance as their velocity increases in the Oberth effect.
turbines
combustion of fuel [or burning fuel; or obvious equivalents]
rocket engine
On a T-xy diagram, these systems form when the two curves intersect between the pure species, forming a pinch point. For 10 points each:
Name these non-ideal systems in which the vapor phase mole fraction is identical to the liquid phase mole fraction.
For instance, water forms an azeotrope with this two-carbon alcohol at 4% water, which can be broken by adding an entrainer like benzene.
Another way to remove the last bit of water from an azeotropic mixture is to add one of these materials, which often include cobalt chloride as an indicator. These hygroscopic compounds include silica.
azeotropes [or binary azeotropes]
ethanol [or ethyl alcohol]
desiccants [or drying agents]
Answer the following about scales used to assess damage during natural disasters, for 10 points each.
This scale, named for an Italian scientist, quantifies the extent to which an earthquake causes damage. Unlike the Richter scale, it doesn't quantify the energy released by an earthquake.
Less than one in a thousand tornadoes reach this highest value on the Fujita Scale, in which trees are uprooted and giant objects, such as cars, are tossed over a hundred meters.
The KeetchÂ–Byram scale quantifies the extent to which this phenomenon occurs, though it is sometimes used to assess the probability of wildfires. The Palmer index assesses this condition by examining soil.
Mercalli scale
F5
drought [or obvious equivalents]
In macrolecithal species, the large amount of this substance results in formation of a blastodisc on top of it that undergoes meroblastic cleavage. For 10 points each:
Identify this substance enveloped by a namesake sac connecting it to the embryo. This yellowish-orange substance is surrounded by a clear liquid called albumen.
Unlike lecithotrophy, adelphophagy and placental nutrition occur in forms of this reproductive method characterized by live birth and dependence on the mother for food during gestation.
In these fish, nutrients can be siphoned off from embryos to feed the father, who undergoes pregnancy and gives birth. These fish belong to the genus Hippocampus, which reflects their resemblance to a namesake land mammal.
yolk
viviparity [or vivipary; or viviparous]
seahorses
Identify the following about ARPANET, for 10 points each.
The earliest e-mail systems in ARPANET relied on FTP to send mail, but modern e-mail clients use this protocol instead. Unlike the POP3 or IMAP protocols, which are used for receiving, this protocol is used only for sending e-mail and uses port 25.
ARPANET grouped data to be sent into blocks of data known by this term, which allowed for better sharing of the network. These units of data are forwarded to the appropriate location by routers, and the non-metadata part of them is called the payload.
After working on ARPANET, Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn created a transmission protocol that paired the reliability protocol, TCP, with this other protocol. Computers have namesake addresses based on this protocol's version 4 or version 6.
SMTP [or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol]
network packets [or datagrams]
IP [or Internet Protocol]
This machine began to be reactivated in April, 2015. For 10 points each:
Name this world's highest energy particle accelerator, which was built by CERN.
The LHC employs beam-steering magnets and beam-focusing magnets; the latter magnets are named for having this many poles.
The Higgs can decay into pairs of this second heaviest quark and its antiparticle. This quark can be "tagged" through the identification of a primary and a nearby secondary vertex.
Large Hadron Collider [or LHC]
4 [or quadrupole]
bottom quark [or b quark; or beauty quark]
Answer the following about calorimetry, for 10 points each:
It can be used to compute this quantity, which, for water, is 4.18 Joules per gram degree Celsius. Heat added equals mass, times change in temperature, times this quantity.
In a bomb calorimeter, the heat added is equal to the change in this quantity, because volume is constant, so the work is zero.
Differential scanning calorimetry can be used to detect the phase transitions of these materials, which can change between nematic and smectic phases as the temperature changes. They have short-range, but not long-range, order.
heat capacity [or specific heat; or Cp]
internal energy [or U]
liquid crystals [or LCs]
Moderator note: Do not read alternate answers to the first part if missed. With the rima glottidis, these structures comprise the glottis. For 10 points each:
Name these membranous infoldings attached to the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages. Viscoelasticity in Reinke's space is important to oscillation of these structures during phonation.
The vocal folds stretch across this sound-generating structure that bridges the pharynx and trachea. This structure protrudes to form the Adam's apple, and inflammation of it can cause hoarseness or inability to vocalize.
This phenomenon is lateralized in order Passeriformes when it is produced through only one side of the syrinx, a simpler analogue of the larynx. LMAN and Area X mediate learning this phenomenon, which is often studied in a species named for its zebra coloration.
vocal cords [or vocal folds; or voice reeds; prompt on larynx and voice box]
larynx [or voice box]
birdsongs [accept word forms]
This sorting algorithm was developed by John von Neumann. For 10 points each:
Name this algorithm that builds a sorted list by combining elements from two previously sorted lists.
Mergesort is an algorithm that splits a list into two components then calls itself on those two lists. Algorithms that call themselves are described by this term.
Mergesort is an algorithm that makes use of this strategy, in which an algorithm recursively breaks a problem into a smaller problem of the same type, which is then solved.
mergesort
recursive [or word forms, such as recursion]
divide and conquer [or D&amp;C;]
This function of two vectors is their magnitude times the cosine of the angle between them. For 10 points each:
Name this function, which sums the product of the corresponding components. For example, this function of vectors a,b,c and d,e,f is a times d, plus b times e, plus c times f.
This is the value returned when two perpendicular vectors are dotted together. Because inner products are positive-definite, v dot v is always greater than or equal to this value.
For the function defined by dotting a vector with a given v, the set of all vectors perpendicular to v is this set for the function. Generally, this term denotes the set of vectors mapped to zero by a given linear transformation.
dot product [accept scalar product or inner product]
zero
kernel
Millipedes and birds partake in phoresy, a subtype of this relationship in which one animal uses another exclusively for transport. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of relationship between two organisms, in which one organism benefits while the other is unharmed.
These plants, such as orchids or Spanish moss, engage in a form of commensal relationship by growing on another plant and deriving their nutrients from the air and rain. Some minimally parasitic plants, like mistletoe, are also grouped into this category.
This crustacean engages in a form of commensalism known as metabiosis by living in the empty shell of a gastropod. Like the related porcelain, king, and horseshoe species, these animals are not true members of infraorder Brachyura.
commensalism [accept word forms]
epiphytes
hermit crabs [or Paguroidea; prompt on crabs]
The nappe cone above the hypersurface of simultaneity represents this entity. For 10 points each:
Name this entity, which is represented by the direction of outgoing arrows on a Feynman diagram. The Feynman-Steuckelberg interpretation of antimatter proposes that it is matter originating from this entity.
The "arrow of time", or time-reversal asymmetry, is easily shown by this law, which maintains that the entropy in the universe must always increase in any process. It prohibits perpetual motion.
A namesake theorem proposes that violations in time symmetry must be accompanied by violations in these two other variables' symmetry in order maintain Lorentz invariance. Kaon conjugation famously does not maintain these two symmetries.
the future [or equivalents]
Second Law of Thermodynamics
CP symmetry [or charge and parity symmetry]
Answer the following about triangles in chemistry, for 10 points each:
A triangle over an arrow in a chemical reaction indicates that this stimulus must be supplied for the reaction to proceed.
The fire triangle proposes that for a fire to occur, you need an ignition source, fuel, and one of these compounds. Examples of these compounds include hydrogen peroxide and ozone.
A triangular phase diagram is used in this procedure, which takes advantage of a high partition coefficient for a desired component into a new solvent. This process is often done in a separatory funnel.
heating [or equivalents]
oxidizing agents [or oxidizers]
liquid-liquid extraction
Nodes of these waves form the lines on a Chladni plate. For 10 points each:
Name these waves which appear to not propagate at all. They can be formed by tying one end of a rope to a doorknob, then driving oscillation.
These values correspond to the integer multiples of the fundamental frequency, other than the fundamental itself. The first of these things is identical to the second harmonic.
For a tube open at one end, the fundamental frequency equals the velocity over this number times the length of the tube. This numbered harmonic would have wavelength equal one-half the length of the tube.
standing waves [or stationary waves]
overtones
four
In the fetus, this chamber of the heart can fail if the ductus arteriosus closes in vivo. For 10 points each:
Name this chamber of the heart that receives deoxygenated blood through the tricuspid valve from the right atrium, and then passes it to the pulmonary artery. 
This kind of valve connects the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery, as well as the left ventricle and the aorta. They lack the chordae tendinae and produce the second heart sound when closed.
The "moderator band" enables physicians to identify the right ventricle in this imaging technique, which uses pressure waves with frequency higher than that of the normal hearing range. It is often used to determine the sex of unborn babies.
right ventricle [or RV; do not prompt on or accept partial answers]
semilunar valves
ultrasound [or ultrasonography]
Answer the following about a non-renewable resource, for 10 points each.
This fossil fuel is a colorless, odorless substance and provides about 20% of the world's energy. Its primary component is methane.
The "oil" variety of this rock contains a lot of kerogen, a waxy mixture of hydrocarbons that can be turned into oil or natural gas. This sedimentary rock breaks along thin parallel layers called laminae.
High grade metamorphism of shale forms this rock, whose index mineral for shale is sillimanite. Medium grade metamorphism of shale forms schist.
natural gas [prompt on gas]
shales
gneiss
A leading explanation for the observed radiation pattern of these objects is the lighthouse model, in which a beam of radiation sweeps past earth periodically. For 10 points each:
Name these rotating neutron stars.
This term refers to sudden increases in pulsar rotation rate. In the Vela Pulsar, these sudden increases result in about one extra rotation per day.
In 1989, this observatory in Puerto Rico used a millisecond pulsar to detect two exoplanets. In 1974, it broadcast a radio message to M13 in the hopes that extra-terrestrial life will pick it up.
pulsars
pulsar glitches
Arecibo Observatory
The Kepler conjecture states that the most efficient way to pack these shapes in three dimensions is either the hexagonal or cubic close packing. For 10 points each:
Name these shapes, whose surface area is given by the formula "4 pi times the radius squared."
This "paradox," which follows from the axiom of choice, shows that a sphere can be decomposed and reassembled into two spheres of the same size.
This conformal mapping takes a sphere to a plane, by mapping a point to where a ray emanating from the north pole and going through the point intersects a given plane. It sends the north pole to the "point at infinity."
2-spheres [or 2-balls]
Banach-Tarski paradox
stereographic projection
A common volcano curve explains that the rate of catalysis requires an intermediate enthalpy for this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process by which gas molecules stick to a catalytic surface. Catalytic hydrogenation requires hydrogen to do this in the first step.
Gerhard Ertl proposed a mechanism involving adsorption for this industrial process, in which hydrogen and nitrogen come together on a solid surface to make ammonia.
Adsorption occurs on these minerals in a common method of purifying air. These objects, made of aluminum and silicon, have catalyst beads inserted inside of them for petrochemical cracking.
adsorption [or word forms; do not accept or prompt on "absorption"]
Haber-Bosch process
zeolites
Answer the following about the Atwood machine, for 10 points each.
The downward force of gravity on each block is balanced by this force, which is exerted upward and provides the torque on the pulley. This force is opposite a compression force.
If the pulley is considered a solid disk with an axis through its center, then its rotational inertia equals the mass times radius squared times this constant factor.
If one mass is twice as heavy as the other mass, and the pulley is assumed to have no inertia, then the overall acceleration of the system equals gravitational acceleration times this numerical factor.
tension force [or T]
one-half [or 0.5]
one-third [or equivalents]
In humans, this enzyme consists of dyskerin, an RNA component, and a reverse transcriptase. For 10 points each:
Name this enzyme that adds a repeated pattern of six nucleotides to the 3 prime end of DNA to compensate for the shortening of that end of chromosomes.
Telomeres resist the activity of telomerase by forming "quadruplexes" of this nucleobase, a purine that forms three hydrogen bonds with cytosine, or C.
Telomerase expression in cancer cell lines sometimes gives them this property, allowing them to undergo cell division indefinitely. Famous cell lines with this property include Jurkat and HeLa.
telomerase [or telomere terminal transferase]
guanine [or G]
immortalized [accept word forms]
Autoantibodies form against a set of these proteins known as desmogleins in the skin disease pemphigus vulgaris. For 10 points each:
Name these transmembrane proteins that come in E, P, and N varieties, and complex with p120, as well as alpha, beta, and gamma catenin, in adherens junctions.
Cadherins require this ion, which is crucial for a whole host of biological functions, including synaptic vesicle release and muscle contraction.
The cytoplasmic face of adherens junctions is linked to this cytoskeletal protein which makes up microfilaments. Troponin prevents the binding of this protein, which makes up the thin filaments in muscle.
cadherins
calcium ion [or Ca2+]
actin
Identify the following about variables in computer science, for 10 points each.
Unlike floats, these types of variables generally do not store decimals. These signed variables are often stored using 32 bits and can contain more data than a byte or short but less than a long.
Variables should not be confused with these things, which have their value set at declaration and are immutable. E in Java's Math library is an example of one of these things.
If a variable is defined at the block level, this property of the variable is limited to the block, making it invisible to other blocks in a function. This property defines a variable's visibility to different parts of a program and comes in function and global varieties.
ints [or integers; or Int32; or words; or doubleword; or longword; or halfword]
constants [or constant variables; or literals; do not accept or prompt on "final"]
scope [or visibility]
Any process of this sort will require the least amount of input work and will produce the largest amount of output work. For 10 points each:
Name this type of thermodynamic process in which steady state is reached at each infinitesimal time point. It is often visualized as removing sand grain-by-grain from an expanding piston.
The law of microscopic reversibility states that no elementary reaction may produce more than this many products. This is the largest number of reactants that will collide with proper orientation in collision theory.
If a reaction is reversible, then it's represented by double-headed arrows, since it will eventually reach this state. In this state, the rate of the forward reaction is the same as the reverse reaction.
reversible processes
two
chemical equilibrium
This quantity is in the denominator of the Biot number. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, symbolized k, that multiplies the temperature gradient to give the rate of heat transfer in the Fourier equation.
At an interface, this law sets the rate of heat transfer equal to a convective heat transfer coefficient times the area of the interface times the difference in temperature between the surface and the surrounding medium.
The convective heat transfer coefficient is greater if the flow has this property. Flows with this property have high Reynolds number, are difficult to model mathematically, and sometimes present trouble for airplanes.
thermal conductivity
Newton's law of cooling [prompt on partial answers]
turbulent [or word forms]
Answer the following about the Harvard classification system, for 10 points each.
The Harvard classification system groups these astronomical objects by their spectral class. Their spectral class versus their absolute magnitude is plotted on an H-R diagram.
The hottest and most luminous stars belong to this spectral class in the Harvard classification system. Stars in this class are often found in associations with B stars.
One of the better mnemonics to remember the extended Harvard classification system is "When Obstreperous Beasts Approach, Fragrant Geraniums Knowingly May Receive Night's Stigmata." What unusual stars with extremely strong solar winds does the "W" stand for in this mnemonic?
stars
O
Wolf-Rayet stars
The Needleman-Wunsch algorithm is a dynamic programming algorithm for the pairwise version of this task, and Clustal is a software package for this task. For 10 points each:
Name this task that identifies regions of similarity among proteins or nucleic acids. The BLAST algorithm uses this kind of procedure to search gene databases.
Sequence alignments for proteins often use substitution matrices like PAM matrices or BLOSUM62, which track the rates of change in these building blocks of proteins.
The combinatorial extension method in sequence alignment takes this property of amino acids into account. The centers of proteins are packed with residues that have this property, as do the tails of molecules that aggregate to form a micelle.
sequence alignment [accept answers like aligning sequences; prompt on string matching]
amino acids
hydrophobicity [or word forms; or lipophilicity; prompt on nonpolarity]
Answer the following about physical and chemical weathering, for 10 points each.
The most common byproduct of chemical weathering of feldspars and micas is this group of minerals.
The classic example of physical weathering is the "wedging" of rocks due to this phase transition in water.
This ion and calcium two plus are the result of calcite being chemically weathered by carbonic acid.
clay minerals
freezing [or obvious equivalents; do not accept "melting"]
bicarbonate [or HCO3 minus]
Positive LOD scores indicate the occurrence of this phenomenon, which was first diagrammed by Alfred Sturtevant. For 10 points each:
Name this tendency of genes whose loci are close by to be inherited together.
Linkage is a product of chromosomal recombination during this form of cell division, which produces four haploid cells and is undergone by gametes.
This base unit of measurement represents the distance between two genes for which the recombination frequency between them is 1%.
genetic linkage
meiosis
centimorgan [or genetic map unit]
Answer the following about the geometry of conic sections, for 10 points each:
This conic section is formed by cutting the cone with a plane parallel to one of the surface lines. It is also the shape formed by the graph of a quadratic equation.
This line is perpendicular to the axis of symmetry of a parabola. The distance from the vertex to this line is equal to the distance from the vertex to the focus.
This general term is given to the set of all points which satisfy a given relation, like the focus-directrix ratio of conic sections.
parabola
directrix
locus
The Rydberg formula gives energy as proportional to negative one over this quantity squared. For 10 points each:
Name this value, an integer that appears in the radial solution of the hydrogen atom's wavefunction. In the Bohr model, this number multiplying h-bar quantizes angular momentum.
The principal quantum number equals one, plus the azimuthal quantum number, plus the total number of these things. The number of angular ones is equal to the azimuthal number.
In the s-block, the principal quantum number for valence electrons is simply defined by which of these things the element belongs to. This term refers to the rows on the Periodic Table, as opposed to groups or families.
principal quantum number [or n]
nodes [or angular nodes]
periods
Because this quantity is a vector, it is often symbolized using Xs to represent it going into the plane of the page, or dots to indicate it coming out of the page. For 10 points each:
Name this vector quantity that is mutually perpendicular to the velocity of a charged particle and the resulting acceleration of that particle, according to a common right-hand rule.
When talking about the strength of the magnetic field, one would either use the unit gauss or this unit, named for the Serbian-American inventor who supported alternating current.
The unit gauss is used to measure the magnetic field when using this system of measurement that is much less widely used than SI units. It's also called the Gaussian system.
magnetic field [or B-field; or H-field]
tesla [Nikola Tesla]
cgs units [or centimeter-gram-seconds units] 
The Weber and Rinne tests evaluate this sense, whose inputs are integrated in the inferior colliculus. For 10 points each:
Name this sense that depends upon the vibration of sound waves inside the fluid within the cochlea.
On the way to the auditory cortex from the inferior colliculus, the auditory nerve passes through the medial geniculate nucleus in this midline relay structure within the brain. The other three structures that develop from the embryonic diencephalon are named relative to this structure.
Wernicke's area, which is located near the primary auditory cortex, controls this human ability, along with Broca's area. Aphasias are defects in this ability caused by brain damage.
hearing [or audition]
thalamus
speech [or language]
[missing]
Name this result from calculus which states that f prime of c equals f of b minus f of a divided by b minus a for a continuous function f on the closed interval a,b with c in the open interval a,b.
This French mathematician extended the mean value theorem to two functions, f and g. He also names an inequality with Hermann Schwarz which generalizes the triangle inequality to inner product spaces.
Along with Ã‰douard Goursat, Cauchy names a theorem which states that the contour integral along a path of a function f of z equals this value when f of z maps a simply connected open subset of C to C. Rules governing the use of this number were developed by the Indian mathematician Brahmagupta.
mean value theorem
Augustin-Louis Cauchy
zero [or el zilcho; or zip; or nada; or obvious equivalents]
[missing]
The valence bond model fails to predict that this diatomic gas is paramagnetic because it has unpaired electrons in antibonding pi orbitals. This gas is a reactant in most combustion reactions.
The model cannot explain why water has this bond angle, rather than 109.5 degrees. Give your answer in degrees, rounded to the nearest tenth.
Valence bond theory can't explain why ions like tetra-ammine copper II have sp2d hybridization and, therefore, have this molecular geometry, rather than tetrahedral. Cisplatin and xenon tetrafluoride have this geometry.
oxygen gas [or O2; or diatomic oxygen]
104.5 degrees
square planar [prompt on partial answer]
[missing]
Name this quantity, usually measured in arcseconds per year, which is defined as the change in position of a star over time when observed from either side of earth's orbit.
This scientist's namesake star has the highest proper motion of any known star. His namesake loop is found within Orion.
Barnard's loop is an example of these interstellar dust clouds that contain large amounts of hydrogen and helium. They are often the site of star formation and examples include the Eagle, which is the subject of the famous "Pillars of Creation" photograph.
proper motion
Edward Emerson Barnard
nebulae
[missing]
Name this protein which is activated in the first step of the MAP kinase signaling pathway. Defects in this protein are responsible for more than 25% of all cancers.
In its active form, Ras is bound to this molecule. Signal transduction pathways often require G proteins, which bind this molecule. It is a molecular "switch" that alternates between phosphorylated and dephosphorylated states.
G-protein coupled receptors normally localize to this structure. The fluid mosaic model describes this structure, which is a selectively permeable lipid bilayer on the outside of cells.
Ras
GTP [or guanosine triphosphate]
cell membrane [or plasma membrane; or PM]
[missing]
Name these transformations observed when one state of matter becomes another state by the transfer of heat.
An example of a second-order phase transition is the transition from ferromagnetism to paramagnetism at this temperature. This temperature's namesake discovered piezoelectricity with his brother, Jacques.
The magnetic susceptibility above the Curie temperature is described by a law named for Pierre Curie and this scientist. The concept of domains in magnets was developed by this person, which is why they are sometimes named for him.
phase transitions [or phase changes]
Curie temperature [or Pierre Curie]
Pierre Weiss
[missing]
Name this class of macromolecules which are nonpolar, in contrast with carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids.
Triglycerides have this compound as their backbone. This three-carbon triol is very soluble in water and is used as a cryoprotectant as well.
Another class of lipids has this 18-carbon compound as a backbone. Lipids containing this compound, called ceramides, form amide linkages to fatty acids, and are especially prevalent in myelin.
lipids
glycerol
sphingosine [prompt on sphingolipids]
[missing]
Name this model from quantum mechanics in which a particle is constrained to move along a free space that is bounded by impenetrable barriers.
The particle cannot leave the box since that would mean the particle would have an infinite value for this quantity. In classical mechanics, the gravitational form of this quantity is given by mass times height times little g.
For a particle in a box, this quantity is h-bar squared times pi-squared divided by quantity eight times mass times the length of the box squared. This quantity is the lowest possible energy state a quantum system may have.
particle in a box [or infinite square well]
potential energy
zero point energy [or ground state energy; or E-sub-1; do not accept "E-sub-0"]
[missing]
Name these cells which can be formed by reprogramming adult cells, or can be extracted from the inner cell mass of the embryo. They can differentiate into many other different cell types.
Specifically, embryonic stem cells are extracted from this structure's inner cell mass. It develops from the morula and has around 100 to 200 cells.
Another way to make stem cells is by injecting the nucleus of one of these cells into an ovum which has its own nucleus removed. This term refers to pretty much any body cell that's not a germ cell.
stem cells [or induced pluripotent stem cells; or embryonic stem cells; or other types of stem cells]
blastula [or blastocyst]
somatic cell
[missing]
Name this signaling molecule, whose levels in bacteria fluctuate based on whether glucose or lactose is being metabolized. This second messenger is synthesized by adenylyl cyclase.
In a situation of low glucose levels but high lactose levels, cyclic AMP will bind to this protein, forming a complex which will bind to a site on the lac operon to increase transcription
Cyclic AMP in humans can help increase the activity of channels that transport an ion of this element, which is necessary for muscle contraction and makes up a large part of bones.
cAMP [or cyclic AMP; or cyclic adenosine monophosphate]
catabolite activator protein [or CAP; or cyclic AMP receptor protein; or CAP]
calcium [or Ca; or calcium 2+ ion; or Ca2+]
[missing]
Name this quantity, which is equal to mass times the radius squared of for a point mass.
For two axes of rotation with this property, the moment of inertia around the second axis of rotation is equal to the moment of inertia around the first axis plus the mass times the distance squared around the second axis, by Steiner's theorem.
An object's associated inertia tensor contains nine entries; the three diagonal entries are the moments of inertia, the other six off-diagonal entries are these quantities, which are notably zero if the object possesses rotational symmetry for the plane defined by the associated principal axes for each entry.
moment of inertia
parallel [or word forms]
product of inertia
[missing]
Name this value. Newton's first law states the sum of all forces on a body in equilibrium is equal to this value.
Newton's first law of motion was extended by Euler to describe these idealized solids, which are not deformable and cannot be altered by physical transformations that change the relative position of the points that comprise one.
Newton's first law does not hold for these kinds of reference frames, one example of which is a reference frame attached to a merry-go-around. The equivalence principle basically states that a pseudo-force in a reference frame that has this property is indistinguishable from an actual force in a reference frame that does not have it.
zero
rigid bodies
non-inertial reference frame [or accelerating reference frame; prompt on rotating reference frame]
[missing]
The most arid of climates are defined as this type of climate. Antarctica is a very cold example of them.
This type of dry climate is considered to be semi-arid. They are often found in Middle Asia and feature some amount of grass but no trees.
Since the lee side of a mountain does not receive as much moisture as the windward side, one of these types of deserts can be created, which are so-named for the lack of precipitation the region receives.
desert
steppes
rain shadow desert
[missing]
Paramecium is one of the many organisms that belong to a class of protists that have many of these cellular structures, which they use to move and feed. They are generally shorter than flagella.
These protists have frustules made out of silica, which leads to beautiful patterns when viewed under a microscope.
This genus of green algae forms spherical colonies, with each cell containing two flagella. This genus is used as a model organism because it can reproduce both sexually and asexually.
cilia [or ciliates; or Ciliophora]
diatoms [or Bacillariophyta]
Volvox
[missing]
Name this phenomenon in which material has different indices of refraction for different wavelengths of light.
Dispersion relations give the frequency in terms of the wavenumber, which is usually represented by this letter. It also represents the proportionality constant in Hooke's law.
This optical equation, used for thin lenses, sets the sum of the reciprocals of the object distance and image distance equal to the quantity n minus one times the difference of the reciprocals of the two radii of curvature of the lens.
dispersion
k
lens-maker's equation
[missing]
Name this quantity, which is the horizontal asymptote on a sigmoid graph plotting reaction rate against substrate concentration. It's in the numerator of the Michaelis-Menten equation.
Enzymes work by reducing this quantity for a reaction. This quantity is the energy barrier to reach the transition state.
Enzymes under this form of regulation often show cooperative, non-Michaelis-Menten binding. This phenomenon occurs when a small molecule binds, but not at the enzyme's active site, and causes the enzyme to change conformation.
Vmax [or maximum velocity; or maximal velocity]
activation energy [or free energy of activation]
allosteric regulation [or word forms]
[missing]
The term helminth refers to parasitic types of what kinds of animals, phyla of which include Annelida and Platyhelminthes?
These white blood cells target parasites like helminths. These granulocytes get their name from the red dye used to stain them.
The lack of helminth infections in the developed world helps give rise to this type of disease according to the hygiene hypothesis. Diseases of this type include lupus and multiple sclerosis.
worms
eosinophils
autoimmune diseases
[missing]
This vector quantity is given by the velocity squared divided by the radius of the circle.
This term is given to the force that constrains the ball to move in a circular path. It is always pointing toward the radius and is sometimes contrasted with the fictitious centrifugal force.
If a particle travels with a non-constant velocity, then this component of the acceleration vector becomes non-zero, making the system much harder to solve analytically.
inward acceleration [or centripetal acceleration; do not accept "centripetal force"]
centripetal force [do not accept "centripetal acceleration"]
tangential acceleration [or obvious equivalents, such as the portion of the acceleration tangent to the path]
[missing]
Name this neurotransmitter, which crosses the neuromuscular junction to catalyze muscle contraction.
In this disease, antibodies attack acetylcholine receptors, causing periods of muscle weakness.
There is some evidence that myasthenia gravis occurs from abnormalities in this organ, in which T cells mature.
acetylcholine [or Ach]
myasthenia gravis
thymus
[missing]
Give this general term for the moving of rock, soil, sand, or some other earthy substance downhill due to the influence of gravity.
This form of mass wasting occurs when soil is saturated with water. The resulting mixture is able to move up to a few inches a day.
solifluction [or word forms]
mass wasting
solifluction [or word forms]
permafrost soil [or cryotic soil]
[missing]
Name this quantity, the energy released when the constituent atoms of a molecule come together. It is usually measured at 25 degrees Celsius and 1 bar, and is zero for elements in their standard states.
In order to determine the enthalpy of a state not at 25 degrees Celsius, you can add on the integral of this quantity with respect to temperature. This quantity is the amount of energy required to increase temperature by one degree.
For liquids and solids, enthalpy is usually pressure-independent, because those phases are usually assumed to approximate this condition, which requires that volume is independent of pressure.
enthalpy of formation [or standard heat of formation]
specific heat [or heat capacity; or Cp]
incompressibility [or word forms]
[missing]
If a ball is in freefall, then the position of the ball after a time t is given by the initial position plus the initial velocity of the ball times t, plus one-half the acceleration due to gravity times this function of t.
Of course, since there is air on Earth, the ball will reach a terminal velocity. The force that opposes the weight of the ball is this non-conservative one.
For regimes with very small Reynolds numbers, this law states that the drag force on a sphere in a fluid is equal to six pi times the viscosity times the velocity of the object times the radius of the object.
t squared [or two]
drag [or air resistance; or fluid resistance; prompt on viscosity; prompt on friction]
Stokes's law
[missing]
Name these substances, which inhibit the growth of bacteria or kill them altogether. They include the aforementioned penicillin and sulfonamides.
Penicillin is this type of antibiotic, which are named for their contained namesake functional group, a cyclic amide. These antibiotics inhibit cell wall synthesis in Gram-positive bacteria.
This other class of beta-lactam antibiotics has a six-member thiazine ring. They're prized for being more efficient and causing less side effects than penicillins, and the fifth generation of these drugs can kill methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus.
antibiotics [or antibacterials]
beta-lactam antibiotics
cephalosporins
[missing]
Runge developed a method with Kutta for approximating the solutions to the "ordinary" variety of these equations, which relate a function and its derivatives.
With Laplace and Lenz, Runge gives his name to the LRL vector, which is conserved in all orbital problems involving this many bodies, which is an unsolved problem if another body is added. A common application is a binary star system.
Runge's theorem creates a sequence of rational functions which converge to a function of this type. These complex-valued functions are complex-differentiable at every point in their domain.
ordinary differential equations
two bodies
holomorphic functions [or analytic functions]
[missing]
Name this element which has one of the highest reduction potentials. Unless bonded to itself as a diatomic gas, it always exists in a minus-one oxidation state.
Fluorine also has the highest value on the Periodic Table for this quantity. The difference in this quantity between two atoms determines a bond's polarity.
According to Pearson's HSAB theory, a fluoride ion would be expected to be this kind of base, because it has a small atomic radius, high charge density, and low polarizability. A proton is an example of this kind of acid.
fluorine [or F]
electronegativity
hard base [or word forms]
[missing]
Name these semiconductor devices that underlie most modern electronics, coming in BJT and - more commonly - MOSFET varieties.
The first working transistor was made from this polycrystalline semiconductor found below silicon on the periodic table.
Schottky diodes consist of a junction between this type of material and a semiconductor. Matching the work function of this material to the underlying semiconductor forms an ohmic contact.
transistors
germanium [or Ge]
metal [prompt on conductor]
[missing]
Name this legendary Indian mathematician who earned his Ph.D. at Cambridge despite little formal training in mathematics.
Ramanjuan independently came across an identity named for this Swiss mathematician, which states that e raised to the power of i times pi equals minus one.
While riding in a taxicab with Hardy, Ramanujan noted that the number 1729 is the smallest number that can be written as the sum of two of this type of number in two different ways. The smallest case of Fermat's last theorem occurs when the sum of two different examples of this type of number does not equal a third.
Srinivasa Ramanujan
Leonard Euler
cube integers [or cubic integers]
An equation giving this quantity named for Van Slyke includes the natural logarithm of 10 and the sum of the concentrations of acid and base. 
Name this quantity, often symbolized beta, equal to the derivative of moles of strong acid with respect to pH.
The pH of a buffer is given by the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, which sets pH equal to this quantity minus the log of the concentration of the acid over its conjugate base. This quantity increases as acidity decreases.
In the acid-base form of this technique, the halfway point occurs where the pH is equal to the pKa of the solution. This technique uses a buret to determine concentrations of unknown compounds.
buffer capacity [or buffering capacity]
pKa [or the logarithmic constant; do not accept or prompt on "Ka"]
acid-base titration
The fringe separation in a certain experiment is equal to the order times wavelength times screen distance divided by this value.
Identify this value multiplied by the sine of the angle and set equal to the order times wavelength as the condition for the existence of a bright fringe.
The double slit experiment was performed by this English scientist.
Claus JÃ¶nsson was the first physicist to perform the double-slit experiment with these particles instead of photons, a now-common setup. A thought experiment due to Feynman illustrates wave-particle duality by considering passing individual ones of these particles through the double-slit, which will create a diffraction pattern because each one passes through both slits, despite the fact that, classically, each one can only pass through one slit.
double slit separation [or obvious equivalents, such as the distance between the two slits; prompt on small d]
Thomas Young
electrons
Identify the following about the computer science behind videogame engines
Some game engines come with tools for performing this operation on video, which reduces the size of the video. This operation can come in lossy and lossless forms, and is exemplified by formats like MP3 and ZIP.
Real time strategy game engines might make use of the A* ("A-star") algorithm to heuristically perform this operation. Dijkstra's algorithm can also be used when performing this operation.
Many game engines support scripting languages, which are not compiled but instead undergo this operation. This operation is combined with compilation in intermediate representation, and is used to execute commands in languages like Ruby and Java.
compression
pathfinding [or pathing; or finding the shortest path; or obvious equivalents]
interpretation [or interpreted languages]
Answer the following about freezing point depression,
Freezing point depression is an example of one of these properties, which depend on the concentration of a dissolved solute rather than its actual nature. Osmotic pressure is another example.
To determine the freezing point depression of an ideal solution of calcium chloride, you multiply the freezing point depression constant by the molality and this integer, which would be the van't Hoff factor for calcium chloride.
Freezing point depression is no longer effective below this temperature, because the system separates into two distinct solid solutions of different concentrations. For salt water, this temperature is -21.2 degrees Celsius.
colligative properties
3
eutectic point [or eutectic temperature]
When the universe dropped to a temperature below ten to the ten Kelvin these particles froze out, and their rate of creation suddenly decreased.
Name these particles that Raymond Davis and John Bahcall found while performing the Homestake experiment.
The Homestake experiment was, partially, conducted to figure out why this object didn't emit as many neutrinos as expected. During an eclipse, this object's corona is visible.
The Super Kamiokande detects stellar neutrinos by immersing photomultiplier tubes in water and looking for this phenomenon when a neutrino strikes an electron.
neutrinos
the Sun
Vavilov-Cherenkov radiation
The WKB approximation is useful for solving Schrodinger equation so that the rate of this process can be calculated.
Name this quantum phenomenon in which a particle passes through a classically-forbidden barrier.
The Esaki type of this device relies on quantum tunneling. These devices are semiconductors with two terminals and allow for current to flow in one direction under normal operation.
This scientist applied the WKB approximation to quantum tunneling to mathematically explain alpha decay. He also wrote the Mr. Tompkins book series.
quantum tunneling
diodes
George Gamow
Some species of these animals have host-specific mutualism with fig trees. 
Name these animals which, together with bees and ants, form the suborder Apocrita. They include hornets and yellow jackets, and many make nests out of a paper-like material.
Wasps and ants belong to this order of haplodiploid insects, in which eusociality evolved at least eleven separate times.
Polydnaviruses are carried by wasps with this kind of life history strategy. These organisms are different from parasites because they kill or sterilize the hosts that they live on.
wasps
Hymenoptera
parasitoid
This vector operation is used to calculate torque and magnetic force.
Name this form of vector multiplication that gives a result perpendicular to the two original vectors.
This type of derivative on multivariable functions assumes that all of the independent variables, but one, are constant. Differential equations using this type of derivative are often contrasted with ordinary differential equations.
The cross product of the del operator, which takes partial derivatives, and a vector field is this operation, whose surface integral is related to a line integral by Stokes's theorem.
cross product
partial derivative [or partial differential equation]
curl
An example of this simple machine with a slope of 70.9 degrees was built after the Johnstown Flood to allow quick access between Johnstown and Westmont.
What simple machine is a tilted surface and is commonly called a ramp?
This value for a frictionless inclined plane is the length of its slope over its height. In general, it's the ratio of the output force using a machine to the input force.
Given a box of mass m, experiencing only acceleration due to gravity, g, on a frictionless inclined plane with slope theta, what is the acceleration of the box?
inclined plane
mechanical advantage [or MA]
g times sine of theta [do not accept partial answers]
A polylinker on these structures allows them to be used as cloning vectors.
Name these circular pieces of DNA in bacteria that are replicated independently of the chromosomal DNA.
This term refers to cells that can uptake plasmid DNA during transformation. Calcium chloride can be used to induce bacteria to have this property.
Another method of making bacteria transform plasmid DNA is this one, in which the cell is rapidly shocked, which increases the membrane's permeability for a short duration.
plasmids
competent cells [or competence; or word forms]
electroporation [or word forms]
In quantum mechanics, every observable is associated with a self-adjoint linear one of these quantities.
Name these quantities that include the kinetic energy and the Lagrangian. They are defined as functions over a system's physical states.
One application of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is that this operator and momentum cannot be fully specified in tandem. More generally, taking the time-derivative of a vector quantity named for this term yields the velocity.
This other operator is defined as the sum of kinetic and potential energies. In classical mechanics, this quantity allows one to recast Newton's laws through the use of generalized coordinates.
operators
position [or x; or r; or s]
Hamiltonian
Answer the following about the U.S. space program in the years just after the first moon landing,
This program, which launched three astronauts at a time atop Saturn V rockets, included all successful moon landings. Its dramatic mission numbered 13 was termed "a successful failure."
This pilot of Freedom 7, the first manned Mercury mission, later became the oldest man on the moon as commander of Apollo 14. He used a scoop to hit golf balls on the lunar surface.
This last set of manned Soviet missions teamed up with the Apollo program for a 1975 Test Project illustrating detente. The APAS docking mechanism was designed for the nineteenth mission of this name, letting Tom Stafford and Alexey Leonov shake hands.
Apollo Program [or Project Apollo; accept equivalents mentioning "Apollo"]
Alan Bartlett Shepard, Junior
Soyuz [or Soyuz 19; or Apollo-Soyuz Test Project; or Apollo-Soyuz mission; or Eksperimantalniy Polyot Soyuz-Apollon; prompt on "ASTP"; prompt on "Union"]
This process occurs last in the central dogma.
Name this process in which mRNA is decoded to make proteins in the ribosomes.
tRNAs bind to mRNAs because they have this three-base-pair sequence opposite the acceptor stem. This sequence is the reverse complement of the corresponding mRNA.
During translation, the degeneracy of the genetic code is accounted for by this phenomenon, in which guanine can make a non-standard base pair with uracil in RNA at the 5' end of the anticodon.
translation
anticodon [do not accept or prompt on "codon"]
wobble base pairing
These quadrilaterals have only one pair of parallel sides.
Name these shapes used to numerically integrate functions by approximating the function as a series of linear functions.
This mathematician's method of numerical integration uses parabolas instead of trapezoids. He also names a three-eighth's rule that instead uses cubic polynomial for the interpolation.
This person developed a set of formulas, which he co-names with Isaac Newton, for numerical integration. The trapezoid rule, Simpson's rule, and Simpson's three-eighths rule are examples of that set of formulae for functions of degrees one through three.
trapezoidal; or trapezium]
Thomas Simpson
Roger Cotes
Answer the following about empirical attempts to determine acceleration
This Italian scientist apocryphally dropped two balls from the Leaning Tower of Pisa to determine if there was an acceleration difference between them.
This reverend invented a device in which two masses of different weights are set up in a pulley-like configuration so that the heavier mass accelerates at a constant rate; this setup allows little g to be determined.
Unfortunately, determining the acceleration of either mass in a swinging Atwood machine is untenable because the entire system has this property. This property is held by systems that are very sensitive to initial conditions.
Galileo Galilei [accept either]
George Atwood [or Atwood machine]
chaos [or word forms; do not accept "nondeterministic"]
George Dantzig solved a simple case of it using the cutting-plane method. 
Name this classic problem from computer science that asks how its namesake figure can visit every city exactly once and return to the origin.
Using this type of technique to solve the traveling salesman problem yields an approximate runtime of n factorial. This kind of approach tries all permutations of the problem.
One can simplify the TSP by assuming that this statement is true, and thus allow it to be solved approximately and tractably by the Christofides algorithm. This mathematical statement holds true for metric spaces.
traveling salesman problem [or TSP]
brute force method [or brute-force approach; or brute-force search; or exhaustive search; or obvious equivalents]
triangle inequality
[missing]
Name these arrays of numbers that feature rows and columns.
This term is the sum of the elements on the main diagonal of a square matrix
A formula named for this German mathematician relates the time derivative of the determinate of a matrix with the trace of its adjoint. This man also names a matrix consisting of the first order partial derivatives of a function.
matrix [or matrices]
trace
Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi
[missing]
Name these critical elements of protein secondary structure, which form from hydrogen bonds between every four amino acids. They are more common than beta sheets.
On a Ramachandran plot, alpha helices occur where this quantity is around -60 degrees. This quantity is the dihedral angle between amino groups if you look down the C-alpha C-prime bonding axis.
Alpha helices were discovered by this chemist, who won a Nobel Prize for his book The Nature of the Chemical Bond and also won a Nobel Peace Prize for opposing nuclear warfare.
alpha helix [or alpha helices; prompt on partial answer]
psi [do not accept "phi"]
Linus Pauling
[missing]
Name these cells which usually make up majority of cells in a primary culture. They also make up the majority of cells in human connective tissue.
Fibroblasts secrete the proteins that compose this structure, which cells attach to with the help of integrins and other CAMs. Proteoglycans are found in this structure, which provides support and organization for tissues.
One important component of the connective tissue extracellular matrix is this protein, the most abundant in humans. It has a triple helical structure and is so large that its fibrils must be formed outside the cell.
fibroblasts
extracellular matrix [or ECM]
collagen [or collagen I; or collagen IV; or other forms of collagen]
[missing]
Name this quantity, which is commonly expressed by a substance's specific gravity or as mass over volume.
An incompressible fluid returns a value of zero when the divergence is performed on the velocity vector field; the divergence is usually written as this operator dotted with the field. It is also used to symoblize the gradient.
Because mass must be conserved in a fluid flow, one can derive one of these relations for mass, which states that the product of area times density times velocity must be equal at any point during an ideal fluid's flow.
density
del [or nabla; or upside-down triangle; or obvious equivalents]
continuity equation
[missing]
Name this second largest gas giant, whose density is less than that of water.
A probe named after this scientist and Huygens was sent to study Saturn. He also names a gap between the rings of Saturn.
The Cassini Regio is a dark spot on this moon of Saturn. This third largest moon of Saturn contains an equatorial ridge sporting some of the largest mountains in the Solar System.
Saturn
Giovanni Cassini
Iapetus
If an undirected example of one of these structures has any pair of vertices connected by one path, and only one path, then it is a tree.
Name these structures studied in discrete mathematics that consist of vertices and the edges connecting them.
The beginning of graph theory is dated to Euler's negative resolution to a problem concerning whether one could cross the seven bridges in this city once, and only once.
The Konigsberg Bridge Problem focused on devising an Eulerian path visiting each edge of a graph once. In contrast, this type of path, sometimes called a traceable path, visits each vertex once.
graphs
Konigsberg [or Kaliningrad]
Hamiltonian
[missing]
Name these proteins, labelled A, B, D, and E. The B one associates with CDK1 to form maturation promoting factor during the entry to mitosis.
Cyclins D, E, and A, on the other hand, accumulate during this "resting" phase of the cell cycle, composed of G1, S, and G2.
One target of MPF is this class of intermediate filaments found on the inner face of the nuclear envelope. Rb, a regulator of mitotic activity, is a transcription factor localized to these fibrous proteins.
cyclins
interphase
lamins [prompt on nuclear lamina; do not accept "laminins"]
[missing]
Name these membrane proteins, which are named for their similarity to a protein in Drosophila that aids in its immune response.
Toll-like receptors play a role in this part of the immune system, which is the first to respond to an infection. It includes the complement system and neutrophils, and is faster than the adaptive immune system.
The innate immune system often responds to an infection by causing this symptom characterized by swelling and redness.
Toll-like receptors [or TLRs]
innate immune system [or innate immunity; or non-specific immunity]
inflammation
[missing]
Name these objects that connect the cells where the two half-reactions are taking place.
In a galvanic cell, this electrode is where the oxidation is taking place. Conventional current flows from the cathode to this electrode.
Both the standard hydrogen and standard calomel electrodes are composed of this metal. This element is used in catalytic hydrogenation, along with palladium and nickel.
salt bridges [prompt on partial answer]
anodes
platinum [or Pt]
Simon Conway Morris disputed this scientist's argument that most fauna of the Cambrian Explosion left no modern descendants.
Name this evolutionary biologist who critiqued Samuel Morton's skull measurements in The Mismeasure of Man and developed punctuated equilibrium with Niles Eldredge.
Gould and Richard Lewontin borrowed this architectural term to describe a characteristic of an organism that is not an adaptation but evolves as a byproduct of an adaptive trait.
Gould argued with Lewontin that species were subject to this mechanism of evolution, by which organisms with favorable adaptations survive better to reproduce. It was formulated by Charles Darwin.
Steven Jay Gould
spandrels
natural selection
Simon Conway Morris disputed this scientist's argument that most fauna of the Cambrian Explosion left no modern descendants.
Name this evolutionary biologist who critiqued Samuel Morton's skull measurements in The Mismeasure of Man and developed punctuated equilibrium with Niles Eldredge.
Gould and Richard Lewontin borrowed this architectural term to describe a characteristic of an organism that is not an adaptation but evolves as a byproduct of an adaptive trait.
Gould argued with Lewontin that species were subject to this mechanism of evolution, by which organisms with favorable adaptations survive better to reproduce. It was formulated by Charles Darwin.
Steven Jay Gould
spandrels
natural selection
The Chisso Corporation's release of toxins containing this element caused an outbreak of Minamata disease.
Name this metal. Its bioaccumulation may poison top predators, such as swordfish and tuna.
Unfounded allegations link this mercury-containing preservative used in multidose flu vaccines to autism. It's also an antiseptic.
Metallothioneins, which complex with mercury, have lots of this amino acid. This amino acid has an imidazole side chain and can be acidic or basic at physiological pH.
mercury [or Hg]
thimerosal [or thiomersal]
histidine [prompt on His or H]
A simple example of this technology's "crystal" form uses a long piece of wire, a metal rod, and a single diode.
Name this technology which demodulates a signal after receiving a carrier wave.
This Italian inventor pioneered long-distance radio telegraphy in the early 1900s.
This woman used her talents for physics to invent the "frequency-hopping" method, which prevented jamming of Allied radio signals during World War II. She was also a star actress from Austria.
radio receiver [or radio transmission; or AM radio; or amplitude modulation ratio; or crystal radio]
Guglielmo Marconi
Hedy Lamarr [or Eva Maria Kiesler]
A constant representing this phenomenon is subtracted from the atomic number to determine effective nuclear charge in Slater's rules.
Name this phenomenon by which electronic repulsion counteracts nuclear attraction, which generally causes atoms with more electrons to be larger in size. 4f electrons are especially bad at contributing to this effect.
The inability of 4f electrons to shield causes a "contraction" among these elements on the Periodic Table. These elements are located above the actinides.
Lanthanide electrons demonstrate this other electronic effect much more strongly. In this effect, moving electrons generate a magnetic field that interacts with electron spin, causing energy levels to split.
shielding effect [or electronic shielding; or word forms; prompt on screening]
lanthanides [or lanthanide contraction]
spin-orbit coupling [or spin-orbit interaction]
In first-order kinetics, a reaction's rate is directly proportional to a single reagent's concentration. 
In first-order kinetics, a straight line with a slope equal to the negative rate constant is generated if this function of the reactant concentration is plotted against time.
For a first-order chemical or nuclear reaction, this quantity equals the natural logarithm of 2 divided by the rate constant. It is the time required for 50% of the starting material to react.
This quantity is equivalent to the reaction order only if the reaction is elementary. This term refers to the number of molecules interacting at the transition state.
natural logarithm [or common logarithm]
half-life
molecularity
[missing]
Good programming practice usually involves leaving these notes in the source code that are removed during compilation. In most languages, you can begin an inline one with two forward slashes.
Establishing a naming convention for variables is a good practice. This convention for variables with multiple words keeps the first word's first letter lower case, but has every other word's first letter capitalized.
For a large code base, it is important to periodically do this. This process is the improvement of existing code without changing its functionality and may involve the rewriting of several classes into smaller classes.
comments
camel case [or mixedCase; or compoundNames; or camelBack]
refactoring [or word forms]
In the transcription-coupled version of process, TFIIH unwinds a DNA strand so that XPG and XPF-ERCC1 can create a dual incision.
Name this DNA repair mechanism whose failure is the most common cause of xeroderma pigmentosum.
Nucleotide excision repair often repairs damage done by ultraviolet radiation, which can include the formation of dimers of this pyrimidine which, unlike uracil, has a methyl group on C5.
The formation of pyrimidine dimers by UV radiation is a major cause of skin cancers, including this most malignant kind of skin cancer.
nucleotide excision repair [or NER]
thymine
melanoma
Two flasks are used in this process, though the receiving flask is usually kept at a much lower temperature.
Name this method of separating a liquid mixture based on the volatility of each component. It can be used to purify ethanol.
The overhead from a laboratory-scale distillation is fed into this long tube leading to the receiving flask. Liebig names a common type of this piece of glassware. In it, the vapor is converted back into a liquid product.
In a laboratory, liquids to be distilled or refluxed are usually kept in this type of flask, which gives the most uniform heating. Unlike Erlenmeyer flasks, they have to be clamped down while in use; otherwise, they fall over.
distillation [or word forms]
condenser
round-bottom flask
The vertical-cavity surface-emitting type of this device uses two distributed Bragg reflectors as end-mirrors for the active region.
Name these devices that emit monochromatic, collimated, coherent light by stimulated emission, often used in a namesake "pointer". 
This form of scanning probe microscopy consists of a cantilever with a pointy tip and a laser that reflects from the cantilever to a photodetector to determine its position.
The cantilever in AFM is commonly made from this type of material, in which charge accumulates as a result of mechanical stress. PZT and quartz are examples of this material.
lasers [or light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation]
atomic force microscopy [or AFM]
piezoelectricity [or word forms]
This technique involves transfecting genes for light-gated ion channels into selected neurons.
Name this neuromodulation technique which precisely activates neurons using pulses of light.
Actuators used in optogenetics are related to rhodopsin, for which this molecule is a cofactor. This chromophore isomerizes from its 11-cis form to its all-trans form when struck by a photon, allowing it to activate transducin. It's an aldehyde derived from Vitamin A.
Rhodopsin is found in these photoreceptor cells. Unlike cones, they are sensitive to a single photon, making them useful in low light, and several of them synapse with a single retinal bipolar cell.
optogenetics
retinal [do not accept "retinol"]
rods
If an undirected example of one of these structures has any pair of vertices connected by one path, and only one path, then it is a tree.
Name these structures studied in discrete mathematics that consist of vertices and the edges connecting them.
The beginning of graph theory is dated to Euler's negative resolution to a problem concerning whether one could cross the seven bridges in this city once, and only once.
The KÃ¶nigsberg Bridge Problem focused on devising an Eulerian path visiting each edge of a graph once. In contrast, this type of path, sometimes called a traceable path, visits each vertex once.
graphs
KÃ¶nigsberg [or Kaliningrad]
Hamiltonian
The Large Hadron Collider is the most powerful one of these devices in the world.
Name these devices, other examples of which include Stanford's SLAC and Fermilab's Tevatron. As their name suggests, they bring protons and electrons to high speeds, often to collide them.
The LHC is located in this laboratory on the Franco-Swiss border. The W and Z bosons were discovered here, and a sample of antimatter lasted for 15 minutes here in 2011.
The ongoing OPERA experiment, which reported measuring faster-than-light neutrinos in 2011, fires particles from CERN and detects them 731 kilometers away at this Italian lab.
particle accelerators
CERN [or European Organization for Nuclear Research]
Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso [or LNGS]
An equation giving this quantity named for Van Slyke includes the natural logarithm of 10 and the sum of the concentrations of acid and base. 
Name this quantity, often symbolized beta, equal to the derivative of moles of strong acid with respect to pH.
The pH of a buffer is given by the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, which sets pH equal to this quantity minus the log of the concentration of the acid over its conjugate base. This quantity increases as acidity decreases.
In the acid-base form of this technique, the halfway point occurs where the pH is equal to the pKa of the solution. This technique uses a buret to determine concentrations of unknown compounds.
buffer capacity [or buffering capacity]
pKa [or the logarithmic constant; do not accept or prompt on "Ka"]
acid-base titration
The fringe separation in a certain experiment is equal to the order times wavelength times screen distance divided by this value.
Identify this value multiplied by the sine of the angle and set equal to the order times wavelength as the condition for the existence of a bright fringe.
The double slit experiment was performed by this English scientist.
Claus JÃ¶nsson was the first physicist to perform the double-slit experiment with these particles instead of photons, a now-common setup. A thought experiment due to Feynman illustrates wave-particle duality by considering passing individual ones of these particles through the double-slit, which will create a diffraction pattern because each one passes through both slits, despite the fact that, classically, each one can only pass through one slit.
double slit separation [or obvious equivalents, such as the distance between the two slits; prompt on small d]
Thomas Young
electrons
The Large Hadron Collider is the most powerful one of these devices in the world.
Name these devices, other examples of which include Stanford's SLAC and Fermilab's Tevatron. As their name suggests, they bring protons and electrons to high speeds, often to collide them.
The LHC is located in this laboratory on the Franco-Swiss border. The W and Z bosons were discovered here, and a sample of antimatter lasted for 15 minutes here in 2011.
The ongoing OPERA experiment, which reported measuring faster-than-light neutrinos in 2011, fires particles from CERN and detects them 731 kilometers away at this Italian lab.
particle accelerators
CERN [or European Organization for Nuclear Research]
Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso [or LNGS]
