One of these two operations is often done through either “linking by rank” or “linking by height” when determining which root to keep while keeping height manageable. For 10 points each:
Name these two operations. One determines the subset its argument is in, and the other moves the root of one argument to be the child of the other. A set named for them allows these two operations to be done in amortized nearly-constant time proportional to the inverse Ackermann function.
Union–find sets are used in this algorithm, which picks the minimum-weight edge connecting two disjoint components at each step. This algorithm runs in big-O of E log V time, unlike the similar Prim’s algorithm.
Kruskal’s algorithm is this type of algorithm because it always picks the locally best option at each step.
union AND find [accept merge in place of “union”; accept union–find sets]
Kruskal’s minimum spanning tree algorithm
greedy algorithms &lt;VS, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;
Answer the following about the career of the late Sir Jack Baldwin, for 10 points each.
Baldwin is best remembered for his rules governing this chemical process. This process is accelerated by geminal dimethyl groups in the Thorpe–Ingold effect.
Baldwin did his PhD with this British chemist. He names a thiohydroxamate ester that is decomposed by AIBN and tributyltin hydride into an alkane in a decarboxylation reaction that is also named for him.
Baldwin’s interest in rings led him to study beta lactams with this property such as cephalosporins and penicillins. A key problem in modern epidemiology is the bacterial “resistance” to compounds with this property.
ring-closing [accept ring formation or cyclization]
Derek Barton
antibiotic &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
This structure consists of a membrane innervated by terminal nerve masses and suspended between two air chambers. For 10 points each:
Name this organ that, in crotalines, is located in bilateral loreal fossae between the eye and nostril. Animals with this organ typically have broad, triangular heads and include the fer-de-lance.
This auxiliary structure in pit vipers transduces signals to the accessory olfactory bulb and may be stimulated by flehmen behavior.
Like pythons, this family of nonvenomous snakes has labial pit organs for sensing IR radiation. This family’s common name is shared with its type genus, which includes the species constrictor.
pit organ [or loreal pit organ; or labial pit organ]
vomeronasal organ [or VNO; or Jacobson’s organ]
boas [or Boidae; or boids; or boa constrictor; prompt on Boinae, as that is a subfamily] &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
Zernike (“ZAIR-nee-kuh”) coefficients can be used to characterize this phenomenon, and it can be partially compensated by GRIN methods. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that results from deviations from the paraxial approximation; it can be defined in terms of the optical path difference between different rays traveling through a lens system.
Surfaces of this shape introduce a common type of aberration in optical systems. Surfaces of this shape are easy to fabricate because they have a constant radius of curvature.
This type of aberration is caused by rays in different planes having different effective foci. One form of this aberration is present when the imaging system is not symmetrical about its optical axis.
optical aberrations (GRIN refers to optical elements with a nonuniform index of refraction.)
spherical [or sphere; accept spherical aberrations or spherical lenses]
astigmatism [or astigmatic aberration; accept third-order astigmatism] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
A quantity representing this relationship is raised to the beta power, where beta is chosen using a scale-free topology criterion. For 10 points each:
Name this relationship represented by the edges of graph where nodes are genes in a “weighted network analysis” technique developed by Steve Horvath.
After WGCNA, eigengenes (“EYE-gun-jeens”) are found as the first of these values for a consensus module. A namesake statistical method uses orthogonality transformations to produce an uncorrelated set of these variables, with the first of these things having the largest possible variance.
Horvath and Langfelder extended the notion of gene hubs to hubs for selection during this type of study that yield better results compared to marginal methods like Stouffer’s method. These studies combine data from other studies.
gene coexpression [accept gene correlation; accept Weighted Gene Correlation Network Analysis]
principal components [or principal component analysis; accept the first principal component; prompt on PCA]
meta-analyses [or meta-analysis; or meta-study or systematic review; prompt on review] &lt;VS, Other Science: Engineering/Mixed&gt;
Unless you’re playing this in a country with universal healthcare, it’s advisable to know about the synthesis of methamphetamine. For 10 points each:
Since it’s hard to legally buy the starting material phenylacetone, it’s often prepared by first reacting easily available benzyl chloride with this one-carbon pseudohalide anion with formula CN-minus.
Phenylacetone then undergoes a condensation reaction with methylamine to form one of these substituted imines. These groups act as donor sites in the salen ligand.
The resulting Schiff base is then reduced to methamphetamine with this acid acting as a hydride donor, similar to the role it plays in the Leuckart reaction. This acid is often added to reverse-phase HPLC eluent solutions.
cyanide
Schiff base
formic acid [or methanoic acid] &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
The Von Kármán momentum integral can be used to calculate the size of this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this structure that forms due to the effects of viscosity and the no-slip condition.
This type of boundary layer named for a German physicist is steady-state laminar flow past a parallel semi-infinite plane. It requires constant free-stream velocity.
In the Blasius solution, the boundary layer thickness is inversely related to the square root of this dimensionless quantity, which describes the ratio of inertia to viscosity and characterizes the transition from laminar to turbulent flow.
boundary layer
Blasius boundary layer [accept Paul Richard Heinrich Blasius]
Reynolds number [prompt on Re] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
The unsupervised Yarowsky algorithm distinguishes these things using associations with certain collocations, based on an unmarked corpus. For 10 points each:
Give the technical term for these things that the Lesk algorithm distinguishes by comparing the target’s surrounding words to a “gloss” of usages of the target. The SemCor data set includes these things, which are the different dictionary definitions of a word.
The SemCor database was built using this English-language lexical database developed at Princeton that groups words into synsets (“SIN-sets”) that are hierarchically organized by hypernyms and hyponyms. It inspired a similarly-named database of images used for a computer vision competition run by Fei-Fei Li.
Entries in WordNet are tagged with these categories, which describe a word’s syntactic behavior. Hidden Markov models are often used to tag words with labels such as verbs, nouns, and adjectives.
word senses [prompt on words; prompt on homographs; prompt on words with the same spelling; prompt on answers indicating the meaning of a word]
WordNet [prompt on WN] (The similarly named database is ImageNet.)
parts of speech [or POS; accept part-of-speech tagging; accept lexical category] &lt;VS, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;
The facilitation, tolerance, and inhibition models are proposed mechanisms for this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process described by the Connell–Slatyer model. Gleason and Clements proposed competing models to describe this process, which typically involves several seral (“SEER-al”) stages.
In this scenario of plant succession, each plant generation prepares the land for, and then is displaced by, the next generation. It is similar to the more general process of facilitation, and was proposed alongside initial floristics by Frank Egler.
Gap dynamics are a form of plant succession that occurs when gaps are made in this layer of the forest, allowing more light through. This layer, which is above the understory level, is primarily made of leaf crowns.
ecological succession [accept primary succession or secondary succession]
relay floristics
forest canopy layer &lt;VS, Biology&gt;
Answer the following about the career of applied mathematician Hilda Geiringer (“GUY-ring-er”), for 10 points each.
Geiringer’s PhD thesis generalized these series to two variables. These series expand a periodic function in terms of harmonic orthogonal basis functions.
Geiringer developed the mathematical basis for this phenomenon in genetics, expanding on descriptions of this phenomenon in terms of crossover probabilities by Haldane and Morgan. This phenomenon includes deviations from Mendel’s law of independent assortment and can be quantified in centimorgan units.
Geiringer’s work on mathematical statistics included proving generalizations of this statement, which is normally justified by applying Chebyshev’s inequality and assuming that the variance of n variables tends to infinity more slowly than n-squared.
Fourier series [do not accept or prompt on “Fourier transform”]
genetic linkage
law of large numbers [accept the weak law of large numbers or Khinchin’s law] &lt;GR, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
This process results in a speckle pattern when laser light passes through or reflects from a diffuse medium. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which multiple waves combine, producing regions of high or low amplitude depending on the relative phase.
Laser speckle produced in this region has statistical properties determined by the shape of the scattering objects that produced it, rather than the shape of the illuminated area as in the case of objective speckle. Approximations to the Kirchhoff formula must include quadratic terms to be valid in this region.
Speckle can be diminished by reducing this property of the incident laser light. This property is inversely proportional to bandwidth and quantifies the correlation between phase at different locations and times.
wave interference [accept superposition]
near field [prompt on Fresnel diffraction]
coherence [accept coherence length, coherence time, spatial coherence, temporal coherence, or degree of coherence] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
Versions of this moiety with a 2-prime O-methoxyethyl, or MOE (“M-O-E”), modification are used as ASO (“A-S-O”) compounds. For 10 points each:
Name this moiety that, in LNAs, is locked into its C3-prime-endo conformation via an extra oxygen–carbon bridge. Restricting this moiety to its “North” conformation gives the molecule it is part of a preference for A-form duplexes.
The SMA drug nusinersen is a 2-prime-MOE phosphorothioate antisense oligo that enhances exon 7 splice efficiency of a gene named “survival of [this cell type] 2.” The Babinski sign in adults reflects dysfunction in this cell type that comprises the corticospinal tract.
The antisense oligo eteplirsen restores the dystrophin reading frame to treat the Duchenne type of this degenerative disorder characterized by progressive weakness.
ribose [or beta-d-ribofuranose; accept adjectival forms such as ribosyl; do not accept or prompt on “deoxyribose”]
motor neuron [or motoneuron; or survival (of) motor neuron; prompt on neurons]
muscular dystrophy [or DMD] &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
In Watson–Crick base pairing, adenine and thymine form two of them, but guanine and cytosine form three. For 10 points each:
Name these non-covalent interactions involving the lightest element.
These square-shaped structures often found in telomeres feature four of the same nucleic acid held together by Hoogsteen hydrogen bonding and stabilized by a cation, usually potassium.
G-quadruplexes are a useful motif in the design of these nucleic acid affinity reagents. These molecules fold into 3-dimensional structures to bind a specific ligand, and their efficacy can be improved by SELEX.
hydrogen bonds [or H-bonds]
G-quadruplex [or guanine quadruplex; prompt on G4]
aptamers &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
An experiment to detect this type of particle uses cryogenic crystals of germanium and silicon. For 10 points each:
Name this general class of hypothetical dark matter candidates. Extensions to the Standard Model like SUSY (“SOO-zee”) and UED predict candidates for this type of particle, such as the LSP.
Several WIMP searches, including LUX and its successor LZ, use time projection chambers filled with this inert element to try to identify interactions between WIMPs and nuclei of this element.
LUX is housed in the Homestake Mine in South Dakota, which was also the site of an experiment that detected an unexpectedly low number of these particles from the Sun. That anomaly was explained by these particles undergoing flavor oscillation.
WIMPs [or weakly interacting massive particles]
xenon [or Xe]
neutrinos [accept electron neutrinos or solar neutrinos] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
The first Hohenberg–Kohn theorem states that the external potential is a unique one of these mathematical forms for the electron density. For 10 points each:
Name these mathematical forms used in a namesake theory that depend on electronic density. BLYP is a popular one of these mathematical forms that is used in conjunction with the Kohn–Sham equations.
Two answers required. Functionals like BLYP that account for the energy from these two interactions cannot be exactly solved by the Kohn–Sham equations. The local-density approximation is used to approximate the energy functional named for these two interactions.
DFT and Hartree–Fock methods calculate electronic structure by creating approximations of these types of orbitals. These orbitals, which come in bonding, antibonding, and non-bonding types, can be approximated by linear combinations of atomic orbitals.
electron density functionals [accept density functional theory; prompt on DFT; do not accept or prompt on “functions”]
electron exchange interaction AND electron–electron correlation [accept exchange–correlation energy; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
molecular orbitals [accept MO theory] &lt;KS, Chemistry&gt;
Artist Aaron Koblin used this website to create a depiction of a 100-dollar bill painted by thousands of individuals, titled <em>Ten Thousand Cents</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Amazon-run crowdsourcing website where “requesters” can pay people to perform Human Intelligence Tasks, or HITs.
This crowdsourced game released in 2008 allows users to fold proteins. A 2010 paper in Nature found that the solutions found by players of this game outperformed algorithmically computed solutions.
Crowdsourcing was used to create these challenge tests used to differentiate computers from humans, which have been likened to a “reverse Turing test.”
Amazon Mechanical Turk [or MTurk]
Foldit
CAPTCHAs &lt;CK, Modern World&gt;
A protocol named “border [this word] protocol” is susceptible to “route leaks” that affect large customer bases, as with the 2019 Cloudflare service outage that took down Discord. For 10 points each:
That protocol named for these things is used to connect autonomous systems, allowing for routing between traffic hosted on different ISPs. The “default” example of these things is the first router a system will contact when looking up an unknown IP.
Border Gateway Protocol connectivity starts with the three-way handshake of this protocol, which is often used together with IP. It is connection-oriented and ensures that packets are delivered correctly.
Though BGP is typically run on routers, it can also be run on “layer 3” or multilayer examples of these networking devices. They perform the same task as network bridges on larger scales, and unlike hubs, they bridge traffic between two separate networks without multicasts.
gateway [accept (external) Border Gateway Protocol or default gateways]
TCP [or Transmission Control Protocol; accept TCP/IP; accept TCP 3-Way Handshake]
network switches [accept layer 3 switches or multilayer switches] &lt;VS, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;
Secondary types of this cancer arising from gastric metastases (“muh-TASS-tuh-seez”) can manifest as signet ring cells called Krukenberg tumors. For 10 points each:
Name this second-most common cancer caused by BRCA (“BRACK-uh”) mutations. It affects a paired organ in the female reproductive system.
This glycoprotein family found in signet ring cell vacuoles also includes CA-125, whose serum levels can be used to monitor ovarian cancer treatment. The 5AC and 2 members of this heavy, highly-glycosylated family are overexpressed in namesake adenocarcinomas.
FIGO staging incorporates cytology findings from “washing” this structure during gynecologic surgery. Its parietal layer attaches to the abdominal wall and portions of its visceral layer fold over to create the mesentery and omenta.
ovarian cancer [prompt on germ cell tumor and sex cord stromal tumor]
mucins [accept MUC or mucin followed by any number; prompt on glycoconjugates; prompt on mucus proteins]
peritoneum [or peritoneal cavity] &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
Answer the following about the autoionization of water, for 10 points each.
The autoionization of water produces both the hydroxide anion and this cation, in which solvated protons bind to free water molecules.
In this mechanism, the solvation of excess protons in water forms the two interconverting Zundel and Eigen cations. This mechanism describes the diffusion of the protons through a lattice of hydrogen bonds.
The structure of the Zundel and Eigen cations was verified in part by splitting this function for the hydronium ion into two separate components. For an ensemble, this function gives density in terms of distance to a reference particle, and it is used to derive thermodynamic quantities in Kirkwood–Buff solution theory.
hydronium cation [or H3O2+]
Grotthuss mechanism [prompt on proton jumping]
radial distribution function [or RDF; accept pair correlation function; prompt on correlation function or distribution function] &lt;KS, Chemistry&gt;
Kent Ford developed a cascading image tube spectrograph that could be used to make one of these measurements. For 10 points each:
Name this measurement that compares the angular velocity of stars in a galaxy to their distance from the center.
This astronomer used the Doppler shift of hydrogen alpha lines to measure flat galaxy rotation curves. Her work provided comprehensive evidence for dark matter.
Because it cannot lose energy through radiation, dark matter can form a halo around galaxies, providing an explanation for flat galactic rotation curves. This density profile, which was developed to universally fit halo formation simulations with different cosmological parameters, scales with the radius as one over “r over r-sub-s, times the square of one plus r over r-sub-s.”
galaxy rotation curves [accept galactic rotation curve or galactic velocity curve]
Vera Rubin
Navarro–Frenk–White profile [or NFW profile] &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;
Excess illumination induces the stepwise removal of two epoxides from this class of molecules in a namesake cycle. For 10 points each:
Name this group of molecules that, unlike carotenes, contain oxygen. De-epoxidized members of this group are protective against photoinhibition.
Violaxanthin de-epoxidase is specific to polyene (“poly-een”) chains with this conformation, which lacks any cis double bonds. Retinoic acid in this form is used to treat APL.
Lutein and zeaxanthin (“zee-uh-ZAN-thin”) contribute to non-photochemical quenching of this molecule in its triplet state. Two special dimers of this essential green pigment make up the P680 photosystem 2 reaction center in chloroplasts.
xanthophylls (“ZAN-thuh-fill”) [or phylloxanthins (“fill-oh-ZAN-thins”); prompt on xanthins; prompt on carotenoids; anti-prompt on violaxanthin, zeaxanthin, or lutein by asking “can you be less specific?”]
all-trans [or equivalents such as only trans; prompt on trans]
chlorophyll &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
Systems with the complete form of this property can be described in terms of action-angle coordinates. For 10 points each:
Name this property. A dynamical system with n degrees of freedom has this property if it has n unique constants of motion, meaning that there are n functions whose Poisson (“pwah-SAWN”) bracket with the Hamiltonian is zero.
Trajectories of integrable systems are confined to an n-dimensional shape of this type in phase space. According to the KAM (“K-A-M”) theorem, weak perturbations only deform these shapes slightly for most trajectories.
Systems with strong nonlinearity are not integrable and thus exhibit this contrasting type of dynamics, meaning that they are extremely sensitive to initial conditions.
integrability [or integrable; or Liouville (“lyoo-VEEL”) integrability; accept complete Liouville integrability]
invariant torus [or invariant tori]
chaos [or chaotic dynamics] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
In a namesake mouse strain, this disorder is induced by a mutation in PRKDC. For 10 points each:
Name this disorder characterized by crippled production of both B and T lymphocytes. A pitiful mouse strain used in xenograft studies features the murine version of this disorder and mutations in NOD and IL2R-gamma, the latter of which causes its X-linked human form.
Humanization of the NOD SCID gamma mouse immune system involves injections with pluripotent human hematopoietic (“hee-MAT-oh-poy-ET-ick”) cells of this type, which have more differentiation options than precursor cells.
The “earmouse,” which had an ear-shaped cartilage graft on its back, was made from a T-cell-deficient strain named for having this phenotype. FOXI3 (“fox-eye-3”) mutations cause this trait in dogs.
SCID mutation [or severe combined immunodeficiency mutation; accept SCID/NOD mice or NOD SCID gamma mice; prompt on NSG mice; prompt on partial answers]
stem cells [or human hematopoietic stem cells]
hairless [or nude; or naked; accept descriptions like not having fur] &lt;VS, Biology&gt;
In the presence of secondary amines (“uh-MEENS”), a reagent containing this compound, sodium carbonate, and acetaldehyde forms an iminium complex that hydrolyzes to form the blue Simon–Awe complex. For 10 points each:
Name this powerful vasodilator that is injected intravenously to treat hypertension. As a reference compound, it is often used to calibrate Mössbauer spectrometers.
It’s not cyanide, but the breakdown of nitroprusside into this compound is responsible for vasodilation. The formula of this diatomic gas is NO.
They’re not amino acids, but nitroprusside may be used to test urine strips for the presence of these compounds via the iodoform reaction in Rothera’s test. Acetoacetate and beta-hydroxybutyrate are examples of these compounds that can indicate untreated type 1 diabetes.
sodium nitroprusside [accept Nitropress or Nipride or SNP]
nitric oxide [prompt on NO; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
ketone bodies [prompt on methyl ketones] &lt;KS, Chemistry&gt;
This process is analogous to intermodulation in electronic systems. For 10 points each:
Name this effect that occurs in materials with third-order nonlinearity, producing new waves at the sum and difference frequencies.
Four-wave mixing can result in crosstalk in these objects when light at multiple frequencies propagates through them. These objects consist of core surrounded by a lower-index cladding.
Four-wave mixing in optical fibers can be used for the parametric type of this process. Lasers are named for performing this process by stimulated emission.
four-wave mixing [or four-photon mixing]
optical fibers [or fiber optics; or fiber optic cables; prompt on optical waveguides]
optical amplification [accept optical parametric amplification; accept light amplification] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
Answer the following about general circulation modeling, for 10 points each.
GCMs discretize the Earth into a grid to simulate movement of water, air, and heat in the atmosphere and oceans; since the grids used are relatively coarse, some important processes like this form of heat transfer must be included as parameters. This process is heat transfer by bulk fluid motion.
This property is used as a parameter in GCMs. This measure of reflectivity determines how much solar energy each cell absorbs and thus, the climate forcing.
The primitive equation in general circulation models are based on the Navier (“nahv-YAY”)–Stokes equations with this simplifying assumption, which directly relates the atmospheric height to pressure by setting the pressure differential equal to negative rho times the geopotential differential.
convection [accept advection]
albedo
hydrostatic approximation [accept hydrostatic equation or hydrostatic equilibrium] &lt;GR, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;
High values of this quantity correlate with low UV excess. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that indicates the presence of products of stellar nucleosynthesis. Population I stars are characterized by high values for this quantity.
This hypothetical group of high-mass stars in the early universe would have very low metallicity and might explain the presence of heavy elements in quasar spectra.
Population III stars would have a very high value for this variable, which determines stellar color. Population I stars are younger and have a higher value for this variable than Population II stars.
metallicity
Population III stars
temperature [or T] &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;
Answer the following about cascade reactions in total synthesis, for 10 points each.
Cascading cationic cyclizations of polyenes (“poly-eens”) were used by Johnson and Corey in preparing these compounds with 17 carbons arranged in four rings, mimicking their biosynthesis from squalene.
This Cypriot-American chemist at Rice University used cascade pericyclic reactions in his preparation of endiandric acid. He included that synthesis along with much more of his own work in the book Classics of Total Synthesis.
Dennis Curran’s total synthesis of hirsutene (“her-SUIT-een”) is a classic example of a cascade involving these species, which can be produced by homolytic bond fission and contain unpaired electrons.
steroids [accept sterols]
Kyriacos Costa Nicolaou
free radicals &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
Examples of this field include the density of the superconducting component and the magnetization of a ferromagnet. For 10 points each:
Name this complex field. The free energy is expressed as a power series in this quantity in the Ginzburg–Landau theory of superconductivity.
Order parameters in Ginzburg–Landau theory describe the continuous type of these phenomena. These phenomena are discontinuous changes, such as the change from a normal metal to a superconductor and the change from liquid water to ice.
Ginzburg–Landau theory introduced two characteristic quantities for superconductivity: the penetration depth and this quantity denoted xi (“k’sigh”).
order parameter [or order parameter field]
phase transitions [or phase change; accept continuous phase transition or second-order phase transition]
superconducting coherence length &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
These cells are divided into direct and indirect types according to their dopamine receptors and the anatomic route of their output to the thalamus. For 10 points each:
Name these cells that comprise the vast majority of striatal neurons. Kreitzer et al. showed that optogenetic stimulation of their D1 and D2 types had opposite effects on locomotion.
MSNs in the D1 pathway permit thalamic and cortical excitation by acting on the SNpr with this primary inhibitory neurotransmitter. Vitamin B6 acts as a cofactor in its biosynthesis from glutamate.
These drugs share a pharmacophore with Z drugs in their positive allosteric modulation of GABA A receptors. They are used to treat delirium tremens, and oversedation with these drugs may be reversed with flumazenil (“floo-MAZ-uh-nil”).
medium spiny neurons [or MSNs; or spiny projection neurons; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, GABAergic or basal ganglia neurons; prompt on partial answers]
GABA [or gamma-aminobutyric acid]
benzodiazepines [or benzos] &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
The Orsay virus causes intestinal abnormalities in this genus. For 10 points each:
Name this genus that includes nigoni and briggsae sister species. John Sulston and H. Robert Horvitz mapped the entire embryonic cell lineage of the N2 strain of its best-studied species.
Wild Caenorhabditis dauer juveniles engage in a neutral type of this interspecies interaction called phoresis, in which they temporarily attach themselves to a host for travel. This strategy includes commensalism, mutualism, and parasitism.
Many filarial nematodes require infection with this mutualistic alpha proteobacterium for fertility, and some woodlouse populations depend on it for feminization. Introducing this genus into Aedes aegypti (“AY-deez ee-JIP-tye”) mosquitoes can dramatically lower dengue (“DEN-gay”) transmission.
Caenorhabditis (“see-no-rab-DYE-tiss”)
symbiosis [or word forms]
Wolbachia (“wohl-BACK-ee-uh”) &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
The sedative and hypnotic agent chloral hydrate is an example of the geminal type of these functional groups. For 10 points each:
Name this functional group. Vicinal examples of these functional groups may be cleaved using lead(IV) (“led-four”) acetate in the Criegee (“KREE-gay”) oxidation, and they can be formed by oxidizing alkenes with osmium tetroxide.
Barry Sharpless’s dihydroxylation is a variation of a diol production method named for this pharmaceutical company that made use of NMO and OsO4. This company was acquired by Pharmacia AB in 1995 and is now owned by Pfizer.
The Malaprade reaction is a glycol cleavage that makes use of an acid containing this element. In a standard laboratory test, this element forms a blue-black color in the presence of starch.
diols [accept vicinal diols or geminal diols or glycols; do not accept or prompt on “alcohols” or “ols”]
Upjohn Company [accept Upjohn dihydroxylation]
iodine [or I] (The acid is periodic acid.) &lt;KS, Chemistry&gt;
The P1 bacteriophage contains the PhD-Doc form of this system, ensuring its transmission to <em>E. coli</em> daughter cells. For 10 points each:
Name this usually two-component module found in bacterial chromosomes or plasmids. Its ccdA/ccdB type induces post-segregational killing of daughter cells that do not inherit the F plasmid.
The ccdB toxin poisons gyrase, a type-2 member of these proteins that is poisoned by fluoroquinolones. Their type-1 members reduce the DNA linking number by one.
Doc toxin inhibits this process by phosphorylating the elongation factor EF-Tu (“E-F-T-U”), which facilitates binding between the ribosome and aminoacyl-tRNA. This process synthesizes proteins using an mRNA template.
toxin-antitoxin [or TA; or addiction module]
topoisomerases
translation &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
Because time propagation is one of these mathematical operations, they are used to prove Liouville’s (“lyoo-VEEL’s”) theorem. For 10 points each:
Name these mathematical operations that change the coordinates and momenta while maintaining the form of Hamilton’s equations.
This equation, which sets the partial time derivative of Hamilton’s principal function equal to negative H, can be derived from Hamilton’s equations using a canonical transformation with a type-2 generating function chosen such that the new Hamiltonian is zero.
Hamilton’s principal function is closely related to this functional quantity. This quantity is extremized with variational derivatives to yield the Euler–Lagrange equations for a system, and it is given by a time integral of the Lagrangian.
canonical transformation
Hamilton–Jacobi equation
action &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
The heat equation sets this function of <em>u</em> equal to the Laplacian of <em>u</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this function that gives the instantaneous rate of change of a variable.
This process deforms a Riemannian manifold in a manner analogous to the heat equation. This process can be simplified by Karen Uhlenbeck’s trick, and Grigori Perelman proved the Poincaré (“pwann-kah-RAY”) conjecture using this process “with surgery.”
Ricci flow smooths out irregularities in this tensor, which generalizes the dot product to Riemannian manifolds.
time derivative [or partial derivative with respect to time; accept d/dt or d-over-dt; prompt on partial derivative by asking “with respect to what variable?”]
Ricci flow
metric tensor &lt;CK, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
Alister Hardy and Cyril Lucas began the currently-ongoing CPR survey for monitoring these organisms in 1931. For 10 points each:
Name these tiny organisms that CPR collects by towing filter silk behind ships. The degree of green discoloration on the silk is a semi-quantitative biomass indicator for the “phyto” type of these organisms, which are defined by their inability to swim against a current.
Many plankton are mixotrophs, acquiring energy and carbon through both autotrophy and this strategy. Phagotrophy is a subtype of this nutritional mode.
These continuous-flow open-culture bioreactors popularized by Jacques Monod can be used to study steady-state trophic modes in microorganisms. Unlike turbidostats, dilution rate is kept constant in these devices.
plankton [or phytoplankton]
heterotrophy
chemostats &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
The space-based GALEX observatory measures this type of radiation to observe events like the formation of dwarf galaxies, and extinction due to interstellar dust has its peak in this band. For 10 points each:
Name this type of radiation that the GALEX measures with microchannel plate detectors and grism spectroscopy. The FUSE space telescope used silicon carbide and lithium fluoride optics to observe the far subband of this radiation.
Data from GALEX allowed astronomers to find the critical mass for one of these objects as a function of galactic velocity dispersion, above which the outflow from one of these objects suppresses star formation by heating all available gas.
GALEX also allowed astronomers to identify one of these galaxies transforming into an S0 (“S-zero”) galaxy. These galaxies occupy the two arms of Hubble’s tuning fork diagram, in contrast to elliptical galaxies.
ultraviolet light [or ultraviolet radiation; or UV; prompt on electromagnetic radiation or EM or light]
supermassive black holes [or SMBH; prompt on black holes or BH; prompt on galactic core; prompt on active galactic nuclei or AGNs; prompt on quasars]
spiral galaxies &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;
Noam Chomsky’s <em>Cartesian Linguistics</em> argues that this monastery’s namesake “grammar” anticipated the distinction between “deep” and “surface” structure. For 10 points each:
Name this abbey home to the philosophers Pierre Nicole and Antoine Arnauld (“ar-NO”) who authored a book known as its “logic,” which contains some of the earliest work on probability.
This philosopher argued that the Port-Royal Logic laid the foundation for Bayesianism (“BAY-zee-in-ism”) by identifying “credibility” with “probability” in his seminal history of the subject, The Emergence of Probability.
The Port-Royal Logic likely influenced this argument found in its namesake’s Pensées (“pon-SAY”). According to this argument, you ought to live as though God really exists because doing so maximizes expected utility.
Port-Royal-des-Champs (“por rwah-YALL day SHAWM”) [accept Port-Royal Logic or Logique de Port-Royal]
Ian Hacking
Pascal’s wager &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
This cation (“cat-ion”) is often formed by the rearrangement of a benzyl cation during mass spectrometry, leading to a peak at a mass-to-charge ratio of 91. For 10 points each:
Name this cation that can lose acetylene to form C5H5-plus in mass spectrometry.
Azulene can be considered as a tropylium cation fused to a cyclopentadienyl anion, explaining its large value for this quantity. The gross selection rule for rotational spectroscopy states that molecules must have permanent non-zero values for this quantity to display a microwave spectrum.
Since they both contain 4n-plus-2 pi-electrons and are planar, azulene and tropylium both obey Hückel’s rule and have this stabilizing property.
tropylium
dipole moment [accept magnetic dipole moment or electric dipole moment; prompt on DM or EDM]
aromaticity &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about the Martians, for 10 points each.
“The Martians” were a group of scientists of this nationality who emigrated to the US in the 20th century. Leo Szilard (“LAY-oh SIL-ard”), a scientist of this nationality who wrote the letter warning FDR about the German nuclear program, jokingly referred to his countrymen as “Martians.”
This Hungarian physicist helped convince Einstein to sign Szilard’s letter to FDR. He developed the phase-space picture of quantum mechanics and developed a theorem by which symmetry operations are related to unitary transformations.
This Hungarian worked on explosive lenses used in implosion nuclear weapons for the Manhattan Project. This mathematician and physicist developed the density matrix formalism for quantum mechanics and is also known for work developing digital computers.
Hungarian [or Hungary; do not accept or prompt on “Austrian” or “Austro-Hungarian”]
Eugene Wigner [or Wigner Jenő]
John von Neumann (“NOY-mahn”) [or Neumann János] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
In late 2019, researchers led by Armin Shayeghi demonstrated that an ultracold beam made of this peptide could interfere with itself, making it the first known biomolecule to demonstrate wave–particle duality. For 10 points each:
Name this 15-amino-acid peptide, a natural antibiotic. Georgy Gause’s (“GYOR-ghee GOW-zee’s”) work on discovering the “S” or “Soviet” derivative of this molecule led to its quick adoption by Soviet hospitals to treat infected wounds.
Before she effectively used girl power by funneling money into illegal paramilitary death squads in Northern Ireland, this “Iron Lady” and British PM got her start writing a dissertation on the structure of Gramicidin S.
Gause’s discovery of Gramicidin S likely saved him from the purges of biologists in the wake of the Soviet Union’s adoption of this ecological system, which denied the existence of natural selection, adopted Lamarckian ideas, and believed that various grains could transmute between each other. It grew out of Michurinism.
gramicidin [accept Gramicidin Soviet or Gramicidin S]
Margaret Thatcher
Lysenkoism &lt;VS, Other Academic&gt;
In Turkish and Korean, these sounds undergo a long-distance assimilatory process known as their namesake “harmony.” For 10 points each:
Name these sonorous sounds characterized by their height, backness, and roundness. Their IPA symbols are organized in a trapezoid-shaped chart, and they form the nuclei of syllables.
Using a computer program like Praat, one can determine vowel height and backness by finding the first two of these resonant frequencies of the vocal tract, designated F1 and F2.
This modification causes a vowel’s third formant to fall below 2000 hertz. The erhua (“AR-hwa”) phenomenon in Mandarin is an example of this vowel modification, which is often characterized by retroflex articulation.
vowels
formants
rhotacization [or r-coloring; or rhoticity; do not accept or prompt on “rhotacism”] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about intersystem crossing, for 10 points each.
In intersystem crossing, electrons can be excited into a triplet state with higher spin multiplicity, resulting in a transition of this type. Both phosphorescence and intersystem crossing are examples of electronic transitions of this type, which are not allowed by selection rules.
Intersystem crossing can be represented by a squiggly arrow pointing to the right on these diagrams. These diagrams, which depict electronic transitions, arrange electronic states by plotting energy versus spin multiplicity.
According to this rule named for an Egyptian chemist, the rate of intersystem crossing is dramatically increased if the transition is accompanied by a change in orbital type.
forbidden transitions
Jablonski diagrams
El-Sayed’s rule &lt;KS, Chemistry&gt;
Mothers within this group grow a lipid-rich layer of skin for their babies to feed upon. For 10 points each:
Name this group of limbless amphibians whose babies, alongside maternal dermatophagy, also graze on their mother’s delicious oviductal secretions. This wormlike group includes a blind Mexican burrowing species.
This property describes the skin-covered eyes of the Mexican burrowing caecilian. The highly-reduced limbs of Amphiuma salamanders also exhibit this property, as they have lost most of their ancestral functionality over time.
Caecilians recently demonstrated susceptibility to this fungus that has been devastating amphibians worldwide.
caecilians (“sih-SIL-ee-uns”)
vestigiality
chytrid (“KIT-trid”) [or chytridiomycosis (“kit-trid-ee-oh-my-KO-siss”); or Bd; or Batrachochytrium infection; or B. dendrobatidis infection; or B. salamandrivorans infection] &lt;JD, Biology&gt;
A perfect fluid has this property because the diagonal spatial components of its stress–energy tensor are equal. For 10 points each:
Name this property. According to the cosmological principle, the universe is homogeneous and has this property on large scales.
This radiation, sometimes called the afterglow of the Big Bang, is highly isotropic, with only small deviations from its blackbody spectrum at 2.7 kelvins.
This process is a consequence of the finite distance that photons could travel between scattering events in the epoch of recombination. It smoothed out density fluctuations in the early universe, resulting in a highly isotropic CMBR. Like baryon acoustic oscillations, this process provides a standard cosmological ruler.
isotropic [or word forms such as isotropy; do not accept or prompt on “anisotropic” or “anisotropy”]
CMBR [or cosmic microwave background radiation]
diffusion damping [or Silk damping; prompt on damping; prompt on photon diffusion] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
Iterated algorithms for this process are more accurate, but are more computationally taxing than filtered back projection. For 10 points each:
Name this process of reconstructing an image from a set of projections. For example, this process can be used to construct a 3D structure from a set of X-ray attenuation cross-sections called a CT scan.
Filtered back projection is the inverse of this mathematical operation, which relates a function defined on a plane to a function defined on a space of lines. The Hough (“huff”) transform in image processing can be thought of as a discrete version of this operation.
The Radon transform is related to this well-known integral transform by a slice theorem. This transform relates a signal to its different frequency components.
tomography [or tomographic imaging; or tomographic reconstruction; accept computed tomography scan or computerized axial tomography scan; prompt on inversion or inverse problem]
Radon transform
Fourier transform &lt;GR, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
The best codes for this procedure have the minimum weight for a given block and message length. For 10 points each:
Name this process that may be carried out by “majority voting” among redundant bits.
The Hamming code uses extra bits to track this property for numbers. This term describes whether a number is odd or even, so simple codes based on this property cannot detect an even number of bit flip errors.
This quantum error correcting code uses classical binary Hamming codes and their duals to correct amplitude and phase errors. The namesake of this perfect CSS code, which only requires seven logical qubits, improved on the nine required by Shor’s first quantum error correcting code.
error correction [accept error-correcting codes; prompt on partial answer; prompt on fault tolerant communication; do not accept or prompt on “quantum error correction”]
parity
Steane code [accept Andrew Steane] &lt;GR, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;
A simple model of these particles based on Drude’s work treats them as a gas obeying Fermi–Dirac statistics. For 10 points each:
Name these negatively charged particles that are responsible for the electrical conductivity of metals.
These quasiparticles are the collective excitations of an electron gas. When localized to a metallic surface, these quasiparticles change the optical properties of metal nanoparticles, and bringing a laser into resonance with their spectrum is the basis for a technique to study adsorption (“ad-ZORP-shin”).
While plasmons are the collective modes of a free electron gas, these quasiparticles describe interactions between electrons and a crystal lattice. These quasiparticles are electrons “dressed” by a cloud of phonons.
electrons [accept free electron gas or free electron model; accept conduction (band) electrons]
plasmons [or quantized plasma oscillations or quantized plasma waves; accept surface plasmons or surface plasmon resonance]
polarons [do not accept or prompt on “polaritons”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
Glyphosate herbicides work by inhibiting an enzyme that acts on a phosphate derivative of this compound. For 10 points each:
Name this compound first isolated from star anise (“ANN-iss”) that can be hydrated to form quinic acid.
Shikimic acid is the starting material for the Hoffman–LaRoche synthesis of this influenza drug.
As a substituted cyclohexene, shikimic acid is often synthesized in schemes involving this cycloaddition reaction that takes place between a diene and a dienophile.
shikimic acid [or shikimate]
Tamiflu [or oseltamivir phosphate]
Diels–Alder reaction &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
This operation was unexpectedly found to completely resolve type-2 diabetes in 75 percent of patients seeking it for weight loss. For 10 points each:
Name this type of gastric bypass in which the stomach is stapled into a small pouch and connected to the jejunum, while the duodenum gets anastomosed to the lower jejunum and continues to receive digestive juices from the gallbladder, pancreas, and gastric remnant. It is partly named for the letter that the rearranged intestines resemble.
Diabetes remission after RYGB may be attributed to the increased postprandial release of glucagon-like peptide-1, which stimulates secretion of this hormone from pancreatic beta cells.
Unfortunately, RYGB also decouples nutrient intake from B12-liberating acid hydrolysis of foods as well as B12 absorption in the ileum since both gastric acid and intrinsic factor are produced by these stomach cells.
Roux-en-Y (“roo-on-why”) gastric bypass [or RYGB; or laparoscopic RYGB]
insulin
parietal (“puh-RYE-uh-tull”) cells &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
Conservation laws and symmetries are important and intertwined concepts in physics. For 10 points each:
This theorem from classical mechanics guarantees the existence of a conservation law corresponding to each symmetry of the action for a physical system.
Locally, conservation laws are expressed as a continuity equation for the conserved quantity. In differential form, a continuity equation sets this function of the conserved quantity equal to the negative time derivative of its density.
Invariance of physics under a gauge (“gayj”) transformation described by this Lie (“lee”) group implies the conservation of charge. Quantum electrodynamics is thus a gauge theory with this symmetry group.
Noether’s (“NUR-tuh’s”) theorem
divergence [accept del dot; do not accept or prompt on “del”]
U(1) (“U-one”) [or unitary group of degree one] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
Graphite and potassium vapor can undergo a topotactic one of these reactions to form a compound with overall stoichiometry KC8. For 10 points each:
Name these reactions in which a guest species is inserted into a host lattice.
Anion de-intercalation from transition metal oxides can be accomplished at high temperatures under low partial pressure of oxygen in one of these reactions. These reactions share their name with reactive materials placed in ultra-high vacuum systems to react with free gas particles.
John Goodenough won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on a rechargeable one of these devices that relies on the reversible intercalation of lithium ions into electrode materials.
intercalation
getter reactions
battery &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
The Caspar–Klug quasi-equivalence principle classifies some objects with this shape as P-equals-1, P-equals-3, or skew based on their triangulation number. For 10 points each:
Name this shape with 5-fold rotational symmetry through each of its 12 vertices. A common gene vector has 60T copies of VP-1, 2, and 3 arranged as 12 pentamers and 10T minus 10 hexamers in this shape.
This viral structure is frequently an icosahedral arrangement of capsomeres forming a “shell” around the genome. It may be further enrobed by an envelope.
The DJ variant of this non-pathogenic Dependoparvovirus has a chimeric capsid that confers high tissue tropism and transduction efficiency. This vector’s serotype 2 naturally integrates on human chromosome 19 but it cannot replicate without a helper virus, unlike lentiviruses.
icosahedron [or convex regular icosahedron; or icosahedra]
capsid [or nucleocapsid]
adeno-associated virus [or AAV; do not accept or prompt on “adenovirus”] &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
This process typically produces long curved parallel strips with similar mineral composition called belts. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which the lithosphere is deformed through convergence or subduction.
There are two main types of structures formed through orogeny: collisional orogens, and this other type, which is formed by the subduction of an ocean plate under a continental plate.
Orogeny can produce the thrust type of these features, in which older rock is pushed above younger rock. Subduction zones are the largest examples of these structures in which the hanging wall can move up or down relative to the foot wall.
orogeny [or orogenesis]
accretionary orogen
tectonic faults [accept thrust or overthrust faults] &lt;GR, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;
The heat capacity of a gas can be determined by counting degrees of freedom and using the equipartition theorem. For 10 points each:
Name the only type of degree of freedom in [emphasize] monatomic ideal gases. In general, gases have three of these degrees of freedom per molecule.
Linear molecules have two rotational degrees of freedom. How many vibrational degrees of freedom does a linear triatomic molecule like carbon dioxide have?
This is the symmetry of the ground state vibrational wavefunction of carbon dioxide. It is the totally symmetric irreducible representation of the D-infinity-h point group.
translational degrees of freedom [accept center of mass motion]
4 (Determine from 3n – 5 or by counting symmetric and asymmetric stretches, in and out of plane bending.)
sigma-g-plus [or Σg+; accept A-one-g or A1g] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
These objects are rank-1 tensors. For 10 points each:
Name these mathematical objects that can describe quantities with components for each direction. The electric and magnetic fields are namesake “fields” that assign one of these objects to every point in space.
These two terms describe different representations of tensors in curved spacetime, and “upper” and “lower” tensor indices are referred to by these terms. Repeating the same symbol for multiple indices described by these terms represents the contraction of a tensor.
This quantity, which is integrated to form the Einstein–Hilbert action, is defined as a contraction over all four indices of the Riemann (“REE-mon”) curvature tensor. This quantity multiplies the metric in the Einstein field equations.
vectors [accept vector fields]
covariant AND contravariant [accept in any order]
Ricci curvature scalar [or scalar curvature; prompt on Ricci; do not accept or prompt on “Ricci tensor”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
The Bolzano–Weierstrass theorem guarantees that bounded sequences of real numbers have subsequences with this property.
Name this property possessed by all Cauchy (“ko-SHEE”) sequences in complete metric spaces.
One common proof to the Bolzano–Weierstrass theorem constructs a subsequence with this property, which must converge according to a namesake convergence theorem. Sequences with this property are strictly increasing or decreasing.
A related version of the Bolzano–Weierstrass theorem states that bounded sets of real numbers have one of these points, which is a point that can be approximated by other points in the set in the sense of neighborhoods.
convergence [or sequential convergence; accept word forms]
monotonic [accept monotone convergence theorem]
limit point [or accumulation point] &lt;GR, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
Answer the following about the role of sea creatures in studying the nervous system, for 10 points each.
Two answers required. This pair of researchers developed a set of differential equations to explain how action potentials propagate through squid giant axons. They shared the 1963 Nobel Prize with John Eccles (“ECK-ulls”).
Eric Kandel won the 2000 Nobel Prize for his studies on the gill-and-siphon withdrawal reflex and memory formation in a member of this phylum, Aplysia californica. Squids also belong to this phylum.
Lamprey swimming is a prototypical behavior controlled by these autonomous groups of neurons, which can fire rhythmically even without rhythmic inputs. In humans, they control movements like walking and breathing.
Alan Hodgkin AND Andrew Huxley [accept Hodgkin–Huxley model]
mollusks [or Mollusca]
central pattern generators [or CPGs; prompt on spinal networks] &lt;VS, Biology&gt;
Indenyl ligands (“LIG-unds”) can decrease their value for this quantity from five to three to accelerate organometallic substitution reactions by allowing an associative mechanism. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity symbolized eta. It equals the number of carbon atoms in a ligand that are bonded to a metal atom.
Indenyl ligands were joined by one of these linkages in Brintzinger’s system for producing isotactic polypropylene by Ziegler–Natta polymerization. These linkages join two cyclopentadienyl rings bonded to the same central atom.
Brintzinger’s systems produced isotactic polypropylene because they were in the C2 point group, meaning that they only had a two-fold axis of this kind of symmetry.
hapticity
ansa-linkages
rotational symmetry &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
DOXP is reduced and turned into MEP in the first step of a pathway that is notable for [emphasize] <em>not</em> using this molecule as an intermediate. For 10 points each:
Name this molecule, the namesake intermediate of a pathway that generates the isoprenoid precursors DMAPP and IPP. Statins directly disrupt its production by inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase.
Statins are used to modulate blood levels of this steroid precursor transported by HDL and LDLs.
Mevalonate inhibition via statins also reduces levels of this isoprenoid. In its phosphorylated form, it is used to transfer oligosaccharides to asparagine residues on target proteins.
mevalonate pathway [accept mevalonic acid or MVA]
cholesterol
dolichol [or dolichyl-phosphate; or dol-p] &lt;VS, Biology&gt;
The determinant of this object for a coordinate transformation gives a factor used in integrated transformed functions. For 10 points each:
Name this matrix that contains the first-order partial derivatives of a multivariable vector function.
Transforming from two-dimensional Cartesian coordinates to this other coordinate system results in a Jacobian determinant of r, indicating that the size of the differential area element depends on position in this coordinate system.
The Jacobian matrix between the residuals and the parameters can be used for nonlinear regression, such as in this algorithm, where the change in the parameters with each iteration is computed in terms of the left pseudoinverse of the Jacobian times the Jacobian.
Jacobian matrix [accept Jacobian determinant]
polar coordinates
Gauss–Newton algorithm [do not accept or prompt on “Newton’s method”] &lt;GR, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
The radioactive cobalt used in this experiment was deposited on a cerium magnesium nitrate crystal and cooled through adiabatic demagnetization. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment devised by Lee and Yang along with its namesake to help resolve the tau–theta puzzle.
The cobalt-60 nuclei in the Wu experiment underwent this decay process, releasing an electron and an antineutrino. This type of decay changes the atomic number but not the mass number.
Wu’s measurements showed that parity was not conserved because nuclear angular momentum is this type of quantity that does not change sign under mirror transformations; in contrast, the electron’s linear momentum is a polar vector.
Wu experiment [or Chien-Shiung Wu’s experiment]
beta decay [or beta-minus decay]
pseudovector [or axial vector] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
This water mass in the Southern Ocean is the densest water mass on Earth. For 10 points each:
Name this slow-flowing water mass that is formed by cooling surface water in the Weddell and Ross Seas in polynyas (“paul-EEN-yahs”).
The Antarctic bottom water is dense due to its low temperature and high value for this quantity, which rises due to sea ice formation. Brackish water has a higher value for this quantity than freshwater but a lower value than seawater.
Formation of the Antarctic bottom water is one form of this process, which happens as surface water cools and sinks. Due to the key role of this process, the thermohaline circulation is also called the “meridional [this process] circulation.”
Antarctic bottom water [or AABW; accept Weddell Sea bottom water]
salinity [or salt concentration; prompt on saltiness; prompt on amount of salt or similar answers]
overturning [accept meridional overturning circulation] &lt;GR, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;
The partition function for a system of <em>n</em> particles with this property is the single particle partition function to the <em>n</em>th power, without the usual factor of one over <em>n</em>-factorial. For 10 points each:
Name this property. The wave function for quantum particles with this property can be a product of single particle wave functions rather than a symmetric or antisymmetric combination.
In the classical limit for a non interacting gas, the particles are effectively distinguishable, and their velocities follow this statistical distribution. The Fermi–Dirac and Bose–Einstein distributions approach this distribution in the high-temperature, low-density limit.
The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution can be derived from this statistical formalism that keeps the energy, particle number, and volume constant over all microstates.
distinguishability [or distinguishable particles; do not accept or prompt on “indistinguishability” or “indistinguishable”]
Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution [accept Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics; prompt on Boltzmann distribution]
microcanonical ensemble [do not accept or prompt on “canonical ensemble” or “grand canonical ensemble”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
Fluconazole and other azoles target 14-alpha-demethylase to inhibit synthesis of a molecule integral to this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this structure. Amphotericin (“am-fuh-TAIR-uh-sin”) B creates lethal channels in its fungal version by binding and sequestering ergosterol, which, like cholesterol in mammals, normally maintains the fluidity of this structure.
Amphotericin B and macrolides are synthesized by this family of modular enzyme complexes that facilitate Claisen condensations between ACP-bound malonyl-CoA and a namesake growing chain bound to KS.
Polyketide synthases are also responsible for the macrolactone core of this antitumor immunosuppressant marketed as Sirolimus. With FK506 binding protein, it makes up a complex called mammalian target of this drug.
cell membrane [or phospholipid bilayer; or plasma membrane]
polyketide synthase [or PKS]
rapamycin [or rapamune; accept mammalian target of rapamycin] &lt;JS, Biology&gt;
Bonuses on chirality (“kye-RAL-ih-tee”) are for amateurs. Answer the following about prochirality, for 10 points each.
This term is used to describe groups in prochiral molecules whose replacement would give two different diastereomers. Unlike groups whose replacement would give two enantiomers, they have different chemical shifts in NMR spectra.
The two faces of a prochiral sp2-hybridized carbon are denoted by “Re” (“R-E”) and this other two-letter term.
An example of the conversion of a prochiral compound into a chiral one is the reduction of an asymmetric carbonyl to give one of these compounds containing a hydroxyl group.
diastereotopic
Si
alcohols &lt;EM, Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about letters that gradually fell out of use in their original languages, for 10 points each.
This archaic Greek letter, which denoted the sound /w/ [wuh], had vanished by Homer’s time. The former presence of this F-shaped letter can, however, be inferred from some Homeric lines that would otherwise be metrically inaccurate.
The letters for three of the four “syllabic consonants,” an important feature of this language, are no longer used in the Devanagari script. That script, first used to write this language, is still in use among many of its daughter languages, such as Marathi.
Old and Middle English contained a number of letters that are no longer in use. Among them is the ligature Æ [A-E], also known as “ash,” and two letters that both correspond to Modern English “th.” Give the name for both.
digamma
Sanskrit [or samskritam]
edh [or eth] and thorn &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
When insulin binds to its receptor’s extracellular domain on hepatocytes, the receptor dimerizes. Answer the following about that process, for 10 points each.
The intracellular domain of the dimerized receptor undergoes auto·phosphoryl·ation on this protein residue. Human kinases most commonly phosphorylate this aromatic amino acid.
Phosphorylated beta-subunits of the insulin receptor leads to activation of PI3 kinase via the insulin receptor substrate. PIP3 then diffuses to bind the pleckstrin homology domain of this serine / threonine kinase, leading to its activation and downstream mTORC signal integration.
Insulin signaling leads to downregulation of a kinase activated by this molecule; that kinase is instead active when cellular energy levels are low. This molecule is a potent allosteric activator of the rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme phospho·fructo·kinase-1.
tyrosine [or Y]
protein kinase B [or PKB; or Akt]
adenosine monophosphate [or AMP] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Answer the following questions about the work of a physicist who computed of the yield of a nuclear bomb using dimensional analysis and published his result in <em>Life</em> magazine in 1953—for 10 points each:
First, name this theorem that states that the frictionless flow of a barotropic and incompressible fluid being steadily rotated is entirely two-dimensional. Its consequence is that an obstacle in a small region of the flow will cause deflection of an entire column of that flow.
The Taylor–Proudman theorem is useful for describing geophysical phenomena, but only holds when this number is small. This is the ratio of inertial forces to Coriolis forces, and it’s small under the approximation of geostrophic balance when Coriolis and pressure gradient forces are equal.
G.I. Taylor also names an instability with Rayleigh that grows at interfaces between two fluids with different values for this property. Osmium is the metallic element with the highest value for this property.
Taylor–Proudman theorem
Rossby number
density [or specific gravity] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
Answer the following about stereoelectronic effects that stabilize particular geometries, for 10 points each.
First, name this effect that stabilizes the beta-conformation of pyranose sugars over the alpha-conformation. It is due to donation from the oxygen nonbonding pair into the carbon-hydroxyl bond sigma-star orbital.
In the Felkin–Anh model, putting a substituent with this property onto the alpha-carbon results in anti-Felkin selectivity. Putting a substituent with this property on the dienophile accelerates a Diels–Alder reaction.
Both the Felkin–Anh model and the anomeric effect involve hyperconjugation, which can be represented as a “no-bond” form of one of these structures. The nitrate ion has three of these contributing structures, which are combined in Lewis theory to give an electron-delocalized picture of a molecule.
anomeric effect [or Edward–Lemieux effect]
electron-withdrawing group [or EWG; prompt on polar or electronegative]
resonance structures &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
The <em>Natya Shastra</em> lists eight types of this concept, which is used to express <em>bhavas</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this core concept of Indian aesthetics, which refers to the emotional essence of an artwork or performance.
The nine rasas are expressed using gestures and facial expressions by performers in bharata·natyam and other Indian varieties of this general art form. Actors wearing colorful costumes perform this art form to the music of three kinds of drum in the dramatic form of kathakali.
Performers in several types of Indian classical dance typically use kohl as one of these substances. These substances are often used to create a “winged” appearance, and are sometimes used “tight” against the waterline.
rasas
dance
eyeliner [prompt on makeup or cosmetics; do not accept or prompt on “eye shadow”] &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
In this dialogue, one debater cited Adriaan van Maanen’s claim to measure the period of rotation of the Pinwheel galaxy as 100,000 years. For 10 points each:
Name this “Great Debate” between two namesake astronomers, which concerned the nature of spiral nebulae and the size of the universe.
Curtis used this term, coined by Immanuel Kant, to describe nebulae. This term was later replaced by the term “galaxy.”
Before the debates, Curtis gathered evidence for his “island universes” hypothesis for two decades at this first permanent mountaintop observatory in the world. A.A. Michelson measured the diameter of Jupiter’s moons at this observatory on the summit of Mount Hamilton in Santa Clara County.
Curtis–Shapley debate
island universes
Lick observatory &lt;Science - Other&gt;
The original paper that posited these criteria uses the example of scrotal cancer in chimney sweeps. For 10 points each
Name this set of criteria used in public health to infer causality. They include plausibility, the presence of a biological gradient, and coherence.
Richard Doll and Austin Bradford Hill studied the association between this behavior and carcinoma of the lung. This activity can be stopped with the help of varenicline or nicotine patches.
Bradford Hill’s study of smoking and lung cancer was of this design, in which a group of people with a disease are compared to a group of people without a disease for a particular exposure. In this type of design, the rare disease assumption can be applied to equate the odds ratio with the relative risk.
Bradford Hill criteria [or Hill’s criteria]
smoking [accept answers involving tobacco or cigarettes]
case-control study &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
These objects are classified by their <em>dhapur</em> blade, <em>pamor</em> pattern, and <em>tangguh</em> provenance. For 10 points each:
Name these decorative daggers that get their distinctive wavy pattern and shape from being folded dozens of times. Their highly decorated sheaths are called warangka.
Keris are often used in penchak silat, which is an Indonesian example of these art forms. Capoeira and wǔshù are arts of this kind.
In the late 18th century, many keris were forged from a meteorite that fell near this temple complex in modern Yogyakarta. This Shaivite Hindu temple complex was built starting in the 850s.
kris [or keris]
martial arts [or fighting arts; prompt on combat or similar answers]
Prambanan &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
The reduced temperature is defined by using the temperature at this point. For 10 points each:
Name this point on a phase diagram in which the liquid and gas phases have no boundary between them. Binary mixtures can turn cloudy at this point due to a certain form of opalescence.
Reduced variables are used in this equation of state, which contains parameters a, b and alpha, with alpha being defined in terms of kappa, which is in turn a second-order polynomial of the acentric factor.
The acentric factor is defined as one less than the negative log-base-10 of the reduced saturation vapor pressure, at a reduced temperature of this value. In inverse seconds and rounded to one significant digit, this is the rate constant of a reaction whose half-life is 1 second. You have 10 seconds to answer.
critical point
Peng–Robinson equation of state
0.7 [or seven-tenths] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
The drift velocity in this formalism is equal to the drift force cross the magnetic field, over the square of the magnetic field strength times the charge. For 10 points each:
Name this formalism in which the motion of charged particles is decomposed into circular motions around a drifting point.
The guiding center formalism can be used to describe this “fourth state of matter,” which consists of unbound positive and negative particles. Tokamaks are used to confine them.
The rate of magnetic reconnection in plasmas is equal to one over the square root of this quantity, according to the Sweet–Parker model. This quantity is the ratio of inertial Alfvén wave forces to resistive diffusion.
guiding center formalism
plasma
Lundquist number &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
The primary alternatives to this kind of survey are “one shot” or “targeted” surveys, where telescopes either observe all fields only once or observe a few objects repeatedly. For 10 points each,
Name this type of survey, employed by D·E·S, Pan-STARRS, SNLS, SDSS, and others to discover and monitor type Ia Supernovae and other transients by repeatedly observing predetermined sets of fields.
Rolling search surveys are conducted in the “domain” of astronomy named for this variable. This variable is on the x-axis of light curves, and its “sidereal” form is based on Earth’s rotation relative to the fixed stars.
This survey, the stage IV successor of DES, will carry out a time domain survey in several yet-to-be-determined “deep drilling fields.” However, as its name suggests, it will also carry out a survey of the entire sky.
rolling search survey [prompt on field survey or volumetric survey; prompt on but do not reveal time domain survey]
time
Large Synoptic Survey Telescope [or LSST; or Vera Rubin survey telescope] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
An exponent equal to “the square root of 73, minus 7, all over 6” appears in the approximate solution to this equation that tends asymptotically to “144 over <em>x</em>-cubed”. For 10 points each:
Name this nonlinear ODE that models charge distribution. It is often written as “the second derivative of Phi with respect to x equals Phi to the three-halves over the square root of x.”
That approximation of the Thomas–Fermi equation is attributed to Arnold Sommerfeld, who developed a model of these materials along with Drude. These materials have zero band gap and thus are electrically conductive.
Sommerfeld also names an expansion that allows the calculation of expectation values of observables over this distribution. This distribution is obeyed by particle ensembles that have a wavefunction antisymmetric under particle exchange.
Thomas–Fermi equation
metals
Fermi–Dirac distribution &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
The <em>negation</em> of this problem is a canonical example of a problem in the complexity class IP, which consists of problems solvable by an interactive proof system. For 10 points each:
Name this problem, for which László Babai announced an as-yet-unverified quasi-polynomial time algorithm in January of 2017.
Since a certificate that two graphs are isomorphic is just a bijection between their vertices, graph isomorphism is trivially in this complexity class. “Yes” instances of problems in this class can be verified in polynomial time.
Some complexity theorists see Babai’s algorithm as evidence that graph isomorphism is in P, much like this other problem, which only had a quasi-polynomial time algorithm until the 2002 publication of the AKS algorithm.
graph isomorphism problem [or GI; or ISO; accept answers that mention determining whether two graphs are isomorphic to each other]
NP [or NPTIME; or nondeterministic polynomial time]
PRIMES [or primality test; accept any answer about determining whether a number is prime; do not accept or prompt on “prime factorization,” which is a harder problem] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
This theory’s namesake parameter “chi” describes the energy of interactions between molecules and solvents. For 10 points each:
Name this mean-field theory that assumes that molecules or parts of molecules occupy sites in a rigid lattice frame.
Flory–Huggins theory gives the Gibbs free energy of mixing for solutions of these types of molecules. Models for these molecules include freely-jointed chains and worm-like chains.
This scientist modeled the movement of polymer chains as freely-moving blobs in dilute solution, or as occupying an imaginary tube in his theory of reptation in polymer melts. He wrote the textbook Capillarity and Wetting Phenomena.
Flory–Huggins solution theory
polymers
Pierre-Gilles de Gennes &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
The monoclonal antibody trastuzumab blocks the HER2 receptor to treat this disease. For 10 points each:
Name this disease which, if localized, may be treated with a lumpectomy or mastectomy.
This first SERM drug treats ER-positive breast cancer by binding to the cancer cell’s hormone receptor, blocking estrogen from attaching. This drug is an estrogen antagonist at the breast but an agonist at the uterus, increasing the risk of endometrial hyperplasia and cancer.
This study led by Valerie Beral has found a correlation between hormone replacement therapy for treating menopausal symptoms and incidence of breast cancer. This study recruited participants from 1996 through 2001 above age 50 via voluntary surveys at NHS Breast Screening Centres.
breast cancer [prompt on partial answer]
tamoxifen [or tamoxifen citrate; or Soltamox; or Nolvadex]
Million Women Study [or MWS] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Fifty years after its initial publication, Marshall Rosenbluth claimed that he and his wife Arianna did most of the work in developing this algorithm. For 10 points each:
Name this algorithm, which was introduced in the 1953 paper Equation of State Calculations by Fast Computing Machines. Its implementation relied on the recently-built MANIAC computer to estimate ensemble averages of a particle system.
The Metropolis algorithm and MANIAC computer came out of work done at this laboratory, which was directed by Robert Oppenheimer during World War II.
This mathematical physicist at Los Alamos in the 1970s discovered chaos in the logistic map by performing calculations on his small HP-65 calculator. He names two constants which describe the period-doubling bifurcations of a non-linear map that occur before the onset of chaos.
Metropolis algorithm [accept Metropolis–Hastings algorithm]
Los Alamos National Laboratory
Mitchell Feigenbaum
In 2018, the Planck spacecraft published accurate measurements of this model’s parameters. For 10 points each:
Name this model which describes the cosmology of the universe using 6 independent parameters, such as the physical baryon density, the reionization optical depth, and the age of the universe.
The lambda-CDM model predicts that the universe is made of three components: matter, cold dark matter, and dark energy. Dark energy is represented by this quantity, denoted uppercase lambda.
The Planck spacecraft measured this quantity as 0.96, agreeing with inflation's prediction that the early universe was nearly scale-invariant. This quantity, one of the six parameters in the lambda-CDM model, describes the power of scalar density fluctuations in the primordial universe.
lambda-CDM model
cosmological constant
scalar spectral index [or the scalar power-law index]
The formation of an “ate”-complex intermediate, a radical mechanism, and an S·N·2 mechanism are all theories concerning the mechanism of this reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this fast metathesis reaction discovered by Wittig. This reaction, which allows the construction of previously-inaccessible organometallic reagents for carbon-carbon bond-forming reactions, is an alternative to adding shavings to the reaction.
In the “lateral-lithiation” of arenes, a Lewis-basic substituent directs the lithium to this position on the arene. This term is used to describe a benzene ring where the two substituent groups are adjacent.
Directed ortho-lithiation of this heterocycle is complicated by 1,2-addition of the reagent into the ring. A chlorochromate salt of this heterocycle is used for gentle oxidation.
metal-halogen exchange [or lithium-halogen exchange]
ortho
pyridine [or pyridinium chlorochromate; prompt on PCC] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about JCVI-Syn3.0, a synthetic genome with 531 kbp. For 10 points each:
As a minimal genome, all 473 genes in JCVI-Syn3.0 are essential, despite 126 of said genes having unknown function. This term is used to describe a pair of genes where neither is essential, but deletion of both causes death.
JCVI-Syn3.0 was developed in the lab of J. Craig Venter, who used shotgun sequencing in this project. This project was completed in 2006 and cost 10 billion dollars.
JCVI-Syn3 and JCVI-Syn1 are both derived from the genome of this bacterium. This sexually transmitted pathogen has the smallest known genome of any self-replicating organism.
synthetic lethal
Human Genome Project [or HGP]
Mycoplasma genitalium &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
This law can be used to determine the crystal lattice constant based on the angle of X-ray diffraction peaks. For 10 points each:
Name this law that gives the condition for constructive interference in X-rays scattering off a crystal lattice.
These devices, which consist of a piezoelectric transducer producing a traveling wave through a transparent material, are called Bragg cells. Light that hits them undergoes Bragg scattering off sound waves in crystal.
Piezoelectric materials obey the so-called “coupled equations,” one of which states that the D-field is equal to a piezoelectric 3-tensor multiplied by this object. The conservation of angular momentum is equivalent to stating that one of these objects is symmetric.
Bragg’s law [accept Bragg diffraction]
acousto-optical modulator [or AOM]
stress tensor [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
A rudimentary form of this process can rely on 1-bit or 2-bit saturating counters based on past code paths. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that’s combined with speculative execution to make code with conditionals run more efficiently. When incorrect, this technique can cause the processor to waste tens of clock cycles.
Branch prediction is one of the most widely implemented optimizations in this technique, which breaks up the execution of instructions into multiple stages so they can be performed in parallel.
Rudimentary branch prediction can be improved by using one of these predictors, which take the results of a local predictor and a global predictor and choose one based on past performance.
branch prediction [do not accept or prompt on “branch target prediction”]
instruction pipelining
tournament predictor &lt;Science - Other&gt;
This theory in 2+1 dimensions predicts topological violations to the spin-statistics theory. For 10 points each:
Name this doubly-eponymous quantum field theory that can be used to describe the fractional quantum Hall effect and calculate knot invariants. It gets its name because the action of the theory is equal to the integral of secondary characteristic classes that were also discovered by its two namesake mathematicians.
This American physicist created a conceptual proof of the spin-statistics theorem. He may be better known for his work on QED and in scattering theory, where he wrote down an equation equivalent to the Schrödinger equation along with Lippmann.
Schwinger’s formulation of QED allows computation of scattering amplitudes perturbatively using these diagrams, where wavy lines represent virtual photons.
Chern–Simons theory [do not accept or prompt on “Chern–Simons form”]
Julian (Seymour) Schwinger
Feynman diagrams &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the Nazarov cyclization:
This specific moiety is the product of the Nazarov cyclization, as well as the Pauson–Khand reaction. It undergoes a Diels–Alder reaction with Danishefsky’s diene as part of his synthesis of coriolin.
Whereas the Nazarov cyclization begins with a ketone, the Pauson–Khand reaction gets its carbonyl group from this molecule. This molecule is formed from incomplete combustion of hydrocarbons, and it binds to hemoglobin 150 times as strongly as oxygen.
Koenig et al. demonstrated in 2019 that the Nazarov cyclization does not require a metal catalyst; instead, one can use this element under mild conditions. This heteroatom has five covalent bonds in the Dess–Martin reagent.
cyclopentenones [prompt on less specific answers like ketone, alkene, or cyclopentene]
carbon monoxide [or CO]
iodine [or I] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
An exponent of 1.5 is sometimes used in these equations when examining modern situations. For 10 points each:
Name this set of differential equations whose time model is continuous, as opposed to the discrete salvo combat model. Their linear form models melee combat and unaimed fire well, while their square law is closer to the aerial combat of World War One combat that the developer was first interested in.
Unmodified Lanchester theory best models attrition warfare, like that exemplified by this strategy, named for a Roman statesman who earned the name “delayer” for employing it.
World War I also inspired this other military theorist, whose landmark text Strategy advocates the Indirect Approach to warfare. John Merasheimer attacked this man for falsifying history to make it seem like Rommel was a disciple of this man’s theories.
Lanchester’s Laws
Fabian strategy
B(asil) H(enry) Liddell Hart [prompt on partial answer] &lt;History - Mediterranean+&gt;
This method can be implemented using the python package CVX·OPT. For 10 points each:
Name this process that solves optimization problems on functions of the form [read slowly] “x-transpose Q x, plus c-transpose x”, where Q is a positive semidefinite matrix.
The solution to this supervised learning model can be reduced to a quadratic programming problem. The “kernel” form of this supervised learning model has increased generalization error but can produce nonlinear decision boundaries, and its linear form provides a maximum-margin hyperplane as its solution.
One-class SVM models can be used to detect these “anomalous” data points that are often interpreted as due measurement error. Including these data points when formulating statistics skews the estimates of population means.
quadratic programming [or QP]
support vector machines [or SVM]
outlier &lt;Science - Other&gt;
Area X, the LMAN, and the HVC have all been shown to be key neural areas for this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process that relies on repeated comparison between the BOS and the stored template. Organisms undergoing this process go through “sub” and “plastic” phases before reaching the final, or “crystallized,” state.
The HVC in the nidopallium is the portion of the avian brain that is responsible for the learning and production of bird song. The nidopallium is analogous to this foremost portion of the human brain, which is responsible for executive function.
The prefrontal cortex is the projection zone of the medial dorsal nucleus of this structure, which is responsible for controlling the flow of incoming sensory information to the cortex. It’s the topmost part of the diencephalon.
avian vocal learning [or avian song learning; accept answers mentioning “birds” instead of “avian”; prompt on partial answers; do not accept or prompt on answers about “song production”]
prefrontal cortex [or PFC; accept anterior frontal lobe; prompt on frontal lobe]
thalamus [do not accept or prompt on “hypothalamus”] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
This book describes many experiments with <em>Drosophila pseudo·obscura</em> in Thomas Hunt Morgan’s lab. For 10 points each:
Name this book that coined the term reproductive isolation and promoted its author’s idea of hybrid sterility. It fleshes out the first version of the biological species concept in the chapter “Species as Natural Units.”
Genetics and the Origin of Species is a foundational text for this approach to evolutionary biology. This two-word term denotes the fusion of Darwinian natural selection and Mendelian genetics.
One of the many theories claiming to be the “new synthesis” is this man’s version of sociobiology, which has been accused of biological determinism. This Harvard professor and ant expert devised the theory of island biogeography with Robert MacArthur.
Genetics and the Origin of Species (by Theodosius Dobzhansky)
modern synthesis [prompt on partial answer; accept synthetic theory]
E(dward) O(sborne) Wilson &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
In MD simulations, rigid water molecules are usually modeled by solving the constraint equations analytically after calculating Lagrange multipliers, rather than by <em>this</em> algorithm. For 10 points each:
Name this algorithm in molecular dynamics. The linearized constraint equations are iteratively solved via the Gauss–Seidel method in this algorithm.
Values for this quantity are usually fixed when using the SHAKE algorithm. The fact that X-ray diffraction analysis of benzene reports only a single value for this quantity is evidence of resonance.
CHARMM is a heuristic example of one of these entities in molecular dynamics simulations, which refer to the functional form and parameter sets used in MD interatomic potentials. Rosetta’s 2015 version of them has 19 total parameters.
SHAKE
bond length
force fields [or energy functions; prompt on force or energy or potential energy] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
The debate over the precise value of this quantity prompted a broadside from Thomas Huxley directed at Lord Kelvin, who, according to Huxley, had calculated a value many orders of magnitude too small. For 10 points each:
Identify this disputed quantity, which Kelvin had calculated by assuming a uniformly cooling sphere.
A more-or-less definitive figure of 4.55 billion years was obtained by Clair Patterson using lead-lead dating of these meteorites, fragments of an asteroid that formed the Barringer Crater in Arizona.
Barringer Crater was formed in this geologic epoch, during which the last Yellowstone eruption occurred. The Bonneville and Missoula floods occurred in this geologic epoch.
age of the earth [accept reasonable descriptions]
Canyon Diablo meteorites
Pleistocene &lt;Science - Other&gt;
These phenomena result in sharp discontinuities in the opto·electronic properties of materials and are sometimes known as the critical points of the Brillouin zone. For 10 points each:
Identify these points that often arise in one-dimensional systems like single-walled carbon nanotubes. They are commonly detected as resonant spikes in Raman spectroscopy.
Van Hove singularities are places in the energy surface where the gradient of this quantity is zero. This quantity is the number of configurations allowed within a given energy interval, and is a continuous generalization of degeneracy.
Graphene’s properties result from the Dirac point, a van Hove singularity that coincides exactly with the chemical potential, with the consequence that the dispersion relation has this dependence on momentum. For a photon, energy has this relationship to momentum and thus frequency.
van Hove singularities
density of states [or DOS]
linear [accept directly proportional or first power] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
LUPIN rem detectors may be utilized to minimize dead time loss in this technique. For 10 points each:
Name this technique for measuring the energy spectra of neutron beams. Its setup typically consists of twelve polyethylene moderators stocked with boron-trifluoride proportional counters.
These systems developed by Walther Bothe, which consist of two inputs and one output, may be applied to reduce background photon noise during neutron detection. In neurobiology, the NMDA receptors of distal dendrites are said to act as these devices to induce long-term potentiation, by requiring multiple inputs before excitation.
This is the name for a medium that converts fast neutrons into thermal neutrons useful for sustaining a fission reaction in a nuclear reactor. Light water or graphite is often used as one of these materials.
Bonner sphere spectroscopy
coincidence detectors [or coincidence circuits; or coincidence devices; accept coincidence methods]
moderators &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
This manifesto inspired Arhur Cayley’s remark that “all geometry is projective geometry.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1872 manifesto, which proposed to classify geometries in terms of the actions of transformation groups.
Felix Klein’s Erlangen program thus proposes to classify spaces based on these properties, which include homotopy and homology groups. One often proves that two spaces are not homeomorphic by calculating one of these properties for both spaces and showing that they’re not the same.
A classic example of that style of proof was Max Dehn’s invention of a namesake invariant to solve the third of these problems. Ennio di Giorgi and John Nash independently solved the nineteenth of these problems.
Erlangen program
topological invariants
Hilbert problems &lt;Science - Other&gt;
Answer the following about Schiff bases, for 10 points each.
This reaction involves a Schiff base intermediate, formed when an amine attacks a non-enolizable aldehyde. The output of the reaction is a beta-amino·carbonyl compound, and an asymmetric form can be catalyzed by proline.
A Schiff base is formed between lysine and this enzyme cofactor in the active site of ALT and AST, enzymes that perform transamination reactions in the liver. This cofactor also assists in retro-Claisen reactions and beta- and gamma- decarboxylations of amino acids.
Schiff bases can act as these molecules, which bind to a central metal ion to form a coordination complex. These molecules can be classified by their denticity and cone angle.
Mannich reaction
PLP [or pyridoxal-5′-phosphate or P5P; or pyridoxine, or vitamin B6]
ligands &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
In beta-thalassemia, toxic aggregates of hemoglobin sequester an isoform of <em>this</em> protein in the nucleus, rendering it incapable of protecting the transcription factor GATA-1 from cleavage by caspase-3. For 10 points each:
Name this protein whose activity in prokaryotes is accelerated by J-domain molecules like DnaJ. Interaction with CHIP allows this protein to pass its defective clients to ubiquitination machinery in eukaryotes.
Hsp70 is one of these proteins that assists its clients in folding. GroEL is another of these proteins.
Overaction of the unfolded protein response leads to chaperone production and eventually apoptosis. Apoptosis is triggered by downregulation of this anti-apoptotic mitochondrial membrane protein, leading to cytochrome c liberation and activation of caspases.
Hsp70 [or heat shock protein 70; accept DnaK; prompt on heat-shock proteins; prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal, chaperones]
molecular chaperones [anti-prompt on chaperonin]
B cell lymphoma-2/x(L) [or Bcl-2/x(L)] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Deaths from opioid overdoses are often a prime candidate for this procedure. For 10 points each:
Identify this procedure, which happens at the highest rate in Spain due to an opt-in by default policy begun in 1979. This procedure can be complicated when immune responses by the recipient lead to rejection.
Those who declined organs from Hepatitis C-positive donors outcomes actually had worse outcomes than those who accepted them between 2010 and 2014. That’s in large part due to this expensive drug from Gilead which can cure Hepatitis C after a 12-week course.
1.6% of all US exports in 2016 were in the form of blood plasma. The documentary Factor 8 explores how prisoners from this state donated huge quantities of tainted plasma, causing haemophilia. Betty Bumpers, a first lady of this state, was a tireless advocate for childhood vaccinations.
organ donation [or dead organ donation]
Sovaldi [or Sofosbuvir]
Arkansas &lt;Modern World&gt;
A persistent problem in evolutionary genetics is that evolutionary histories inferred from different genes are often incongruent. For 10 points each:
One cause of gene tree incongruence is genetic recombination that occurs during this phenomenon, which often occurs in namesake zones where reproductively compatible species overlap. As Haldane’s rule implies, this process does not always result in sterile offspring.
This term is often used to describe situations in which allelic lineages fail to segregate among species, usually because speciation occurs faster than coalescence.
Gene tree incongruence can also occur when speciation follows this phenomenon. These events create paralogs, one of which is often silenced and, like deletions, they often result from chromosomal rearrangements like ectopic recombination.
hybridization [or admixture]
incomplete lineage sorting [or ILS; prompt on partial answer]
gene duplication [prompt on answers involving the formation of DNA repeats] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
In this technique, phase-modulated light from a laser is coupled to a resonant cavity, and the demodulated reflected signal from the cavity used to control the laser. For 10 points each:
Name this technique used to lock the frequency of a laser to a resonant cavity in order to reduce its linewidth.
The Pound–Drever–Hall technique is an important component of the “optical” variety of these devices. One of these devices relying on a “fountain” of caesium atoms is used for NIST-F1 and NIST-F2, the primary U.S. frequency standards.
Converting the high frequency signal of an optical atomic clock to an RF signal typically requires a frequency comb, in which the laser pulse train is stabilized by this technique. In this technique, the pump current is modulated to produce short-duration pulses.
Pound–Drever–Hall technique [or PDH technique]
atomic clock [prompt on partial answer]
mode locking &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
According to El-Sayed’s rule, the rate of these electronic transitions is much higher when they occur between different types of molecular orbitals. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of nonradiative electronic transition from a singlet state to a triplet state, or vice versa, that occurs when potential energy curves for the two states intersect.
When a triplet excited state undergoes decay, it can convert and dissipate its excess energy entirely as heat via this mechanism. This mechanism is essential in plants since the alternative involves the formation of singlet oxygen, which can damage tissues.
The tendency for electrons to get trapped in triplet states due to intersystem crossing helps to explain this photoluminescent phenomenon, which occurs over much longer time-scales than fluorescence.
intersystem crossing
non-photochemical quenching [or NPQ]
phosphorescence &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
This method takes the logarithm of a dataset’s probability given model parameters, and sets its derivative with respect to those model parameters to zero. For 10 points each:
Identify this method which selects a particular parameter value. Because it is efficient, the results of this process attain the Cramér–Rao bound in the limit.
The variance of a maximum likelihood estimator is given by the inverse of the information named for this statistician. He also names a fundamental theorem of natural selection and a runaway phenomenon in sexual selection.
Joe Felsenstein developed maximum likelihood methods for constructing these things, as well as developing the method of independent contrasts for controlling for these things in regression analysis.
maximum likelihood estimation [or MLE]
Sir Ronald Aylmer Fisher
phylogenies [or phylogenetic trees] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
The dispersion relation for these entities is approximately linear in the low-wavenumber limit and always has a frequency value lower than that of a related branch. For 10 points each:
Name these vibrational modes, which are in-phase displacements of atoms in a crystal lattice.
At this point, the frequency of an acoustic phonon reaches a maximum value of 2 times the square root of the spring constant divided by mass.
The resistivity of metals is linear in this quantity, due to the interaction between electrons and phonons. In the denominator of the exponential term of the Arrhenius equation, the gas constant R multiplies this intensive quantity, measured in Kelvin.
acoustic phonons [prompt on partial answer]
boundary of the first Brillouin zone [accept edge of the first Brillouin zone; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
temperature [or T] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
Both this standard and the earlier asm.js can be generated using the Emscripten SDK. For 10 points each:
Name this open standard for frontend development that allows browser applications to be compiled into a more efficient binary encoding. It was first released as a minimum viable product in 2017.
Like its namesake, WebAssembly uses an architecture based on “sets” of these statements, allowing execution by an in-browser virtual machine. Interpreters convert program statements to these statements in machine code.
WebAssembly’s support for LLVM languages makes it viable for use with this language, the “most loved” by Stack Overflow users every year since 2016. This language invented by Mozilla borrows traits from Haskell and uses the keywords match and let, but it’s perhaps best known for its property of “fearless concurrency.”
WebAssembly [or Wasm; do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
machine instructions
Rust &lt;Science - Other&gt;
Probes like TaqMan use this phenomenon to monitor the progress of PCR in real-time. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that underlies dyes like rhodamine and SYBR Green. Osamu Shimomura purified a protein which displays this phenomenon, allowing it to be used as a reporter for gene expression.
The dye fluorescein is frequently derivatized with this functional group, which is responsible for the pungency of wasabi and horseradish. When benzene is substituted with this functional group, it forms a reagent used to sequence proteins in the Edman degradation.
These probes for qPCR consist of a synthetic hairpin-shaped oligonucleotide with a fluorophore at the 5-prime end and a quencher at the 3-prime end. When they bind to a target sequence, they unfold, moving the quencher away from the fluorophore.
fluorescence [accept green fluorescent protein]
iso·thio·cyanate [or ITC; accept FITC; accept phenyl iso·thio·cyanate; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
molecular beacons &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
One component of this phenomenon occurs via long-term potentiation and long-term depression. For 10 points each:
Name this generic term which refers to the brain’s ability to permanently change and reorganize itself, frequently via the strengthening and weakening of synapses.
Synaptic plasticity is largely regulated by the activity of these two types of ion channels. Along with the kainate receptor, these two receptors allow the neurotransmitter glutamate to alter the balance of cations inside and outside of nerve cells. Name both.
This plasticity protein in the “immediate early gene” family serves as a regulator of synaptic strength. Its generic-sounding name references the dependency of its localization to the synapse on microtubule-associated transport and actin-dependent docking.
neuroplasticity [or synaptic plasticity]
NMDA receptors [or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors] and AMPA receptors [or α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors]
Arc [or activity-regulated cytoskeleton associated protein] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
This technique avoids the problem of needing to account for the point spread function by optically isolating points and measuring them separately. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that’s combined with spatially modulated illumination in the Vertico-SMI light microscope.
The effective 5-nanometer resolution of Vertico-SMI is significantly greater than the roughly 200-nanometer limit for a light microscope predicted by this man. He also names a type of condenser used in microscopes.
The denominator of the Abbe diffraction limit includes a term for “n sine-theta” given this name. This value characterizes the angles from which an imaging system may accept light, and integrated photon count is proportional to this value to the fourth power over magnification squared.
spectral precision distance microscopy [or SPDM; accept localization microscopy; prompt on super-resolution microscopy]
Ernst (Karl) Abbe
numerical aperture [or NA] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
This method is used in protein design to confirm that designed structures have folded into a correct stable conformation. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that’s used to produce a plot with y-axis units in “degrees centimeters-squared per decimole,” and an x-axis measuring wavelength.
The far-UV part of the CD spectrum is used to get a readout of this structure of organization of proteins. This structure involves hydrogen bonding between atoms in the protein backbone, and two examples include alpha helices and beta-sheets.
Alpha helices are interrupted by these segments, which are rich in proline and glycine. Regulatory versions of these segments lie between transmembrane regions in integral proteins, and they may also participate in protein-docking.
circular dichroism spectroscopy [or CD]
secondary structure
loops [accept unstructured loops or structured loop or regulatory loops; accept helix-loop-helix] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about sediment transport, for 10 points each.
First, name this gradual process in which individual soil and rock particles are lifted and then displaced downward over freeze-thaw cycles. Materials susceptible to this process often rich in clay.
The creep rate can be computed as a function of downhill slope using this scientist’s theory of viscoelastic materials, where such materials are modeled as a spring and a damper in series. This scientist also names a graphical construction used to correct the van der Waals equation of state for phase transitions.
After a rockfall, individual pieces of rock characteristically form a cone-shaped pile of irregular broken rocks at the base of the mountain, given this name. These cones of debris have angle equal to the angle of repose.
creep [or soil creep or downhill creep]
James Clerk Maxwell
talus slopes &lt;Science - Other&gt;
George Sensabaugh gave this protein a designation of p30, and noticed that it wasn’t found in serum, tears, or saliva. For 10 points each:
Name this protein whose routine measurement in the primary care setting is controversial. Along with the Gleason score and TNM classification, it can be used to inform prognosis.
Blood PSA has low specificity for cancer because is often elevated in this non-cancerous condition which causes enlargement of the central region of the prostate. Alpha blockers such as tamsulosin are prescribed to reduce the pain of urination that occurs during this condition.
Alpha blockers block the receptor for this blood-borne hormone, which mobilizes energy reserves and increases heart rate. It must be injected into the thighs of individuals in anaphylactic shock.
prostate-specific antigen [or PSA; accept gamma-seminoprotein; accept kallikrein-3; accept KLK3]
benign prostatic hyperplasia [or BPH]
epinephrine [or adrenaline] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
This genus appears in the fossil record in the middle of the Silurian and disappears in the early Devonian. For 10 points each:
Name this genus of transitional land plant that had a simple stalk with a few branchings, ending with a sporangium. They lacked leaves, flowers, and roots and are described as “trumpet-shaped.”
Cooksonia species are transitional between modern vascular land plants and this paraphyletic group of plants, which contains the hornworts, liverworts, and mosses.
This stage of the bryophyte life cycle is the sexual stage and the dominant one. Archegonia and antheridia are produced on this stage.
Cooksonia
bryophytes [or bryophyta]
gametophyte [prompt on haploid]
The use of cyanide ions to produce benzoin in a coupling reaction is an example of this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process that involves chemically modifying a carbon-heteroatom bond to allow new secondary reactions, where the carbon acts as a nucleophile. Another example of it involves reacting an aldehyde or ketone with a dithiol, deprotonating and reacting with an electrophile, and then deprotecting with mercury(II).
The Stetter reaction is an umpolung that produces 1,4-dicarbonyls using derivatives of this heterocycle as a catalyst. It’s present in vitamin B1, and its active deprotonated form has two contributing resonance structures: an ylide and a carbene.
Thiazole rings have six pi electrons and thus have this property according to Huckel’s rule. Benzene is the prototypical compound with this property.
umpolung
thiazolium [or 1,3-thiazole]
aromaticity &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
The Hodge star gives a duality between vector spaces defined using this operation. For 10 points each:
Name this antisymmetric operation that’s used to define differential forms.
The norm of the wedge product of a collection of vectors can be given as the square root of this matrix’s determinant. Given a matrix A, this matrix can be written as “A-transpose times A.”
Thus, in three dimensions, the Gramian determinant gives you the square of the volume of one of these figures formed by the vectors. The determinant of a 3-by-3 matrix gives you the volume of one of these figures formed by its columns.
exterior product [or wedge product]
Gramian matrix [or Gramian determinant]
parallelepipeds &lt;Science - Other&gt;
Arthur Rosenfeld was likely the first person to formulate this standard by calculating the number of potential resonances as the total number of histograms times the number of deceptive fluctuations per histogram. For 10 points each:
Name this standard used in particle physics that dictates how unlikely a fluctuation must be for it to be considered significant. A descrription is fine.
This fake discovery by a team at Fermilab probably wouldn’t have been published if the 5 sigma rule was used. This “punning-ly” named “particle” was reported as a 6 G·e·V resonance that produced electron-positron pairs.
Adhering to the 5 sigma rule might also have prevented the rabbit hole that particle physics went down looking for a 17 k·e·V one of these particles reported by John Simpson in 1985. Evidence for their oscillations was reported by Super-Kamiokande, SNO, and KamLAND.
5 sigma standard [accept anything mentioning that the observation must be five standard deviations away from the mean]
Oops-Leon [prompt on upsilon]
neutrinos [accept electron neutrinos; accept mu neutrinos; accept tau neutrinos; prompt on fermions] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
This scientist wrote a story about a runaway cyclone, and he interpreted the “quivering” he observed in plants using his crescograph to be a sign of plant perception. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary of Guglielmo Marconi, who was the first to use semiconductor junctions to detect radio signals. Due to his opposition to patenting and the racial discrimination of the time, he did not benefit commercially from his inventions.
Jagadish Chandra Bose was an advisor to fellow Bengali Satyendra Nath Bose, whose statistics approach this classical distribution at high temperatures. This distribution gives the velocities of molecules in an ideal gas.
This other Bengali and classmate of Satyendra Nath Bose wrote down a formula that relates the ionization state of a gas to its temperature and ionization energies of its individual atoms.
Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose [prompt on Bose; do not accept or prompt on “Satyendra Nath Bose”]
Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution
Meghnad Saha &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
The avoidance of these substances was thought to expel the “three corpses” that share the body with cloudsouls and whitesouls. For 10 points each:
Name these substances that are “avoided” in the Daoist practice of bìgǔ [BEE-goo].
In Chinese folk religion, this member of the Three Sovereigns is credited with introducing the five grains to China.
Grain avoidance was a technique for becoming one of these people. Religious Daoism partly developed out of alchemical beliefs that elixirs and meditation practices could turn you into one of these people; a description is fine.
five grains [or cereals; accept carbohydrates; prompt on foodstuffs]
Shénnóng [shun-nong]
immortals [or transcendents; or xiān; accept any description of transcendence or immortality] &lt;Religion&gt;
This antibiotic is one of last resort against highly resistant organisms, like Strep species, Enterococcus, and MRSA. For 10 points each:
Name this cyclic lipopeptide antibiotic that causes bacterial membrane depolarization and can only be used against Gram-positives.
Daptomycin is ineffective in the lung because it is inactivated by this substance, which is mainly composed of dipalmitoyl phospha·tidyl·choline and produced by type II pneumocytes. A relative lack of this substance in premature neonates results in neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
Daptomycin treatment requires monitoring of CK-MB levels due to risk of developing this serious systemic illness where muscle tissue is damaged. Patients present with muscle pain and free myoglobin pigment in the urine.
daptomycin
pulmonary surfactant
rhabdo·my·olysis &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Any finite-dimensional irreducible representation of a complex semisimple finite-dimensional Lie algebra has a unique “highest” one of <em>these</em> objects. For 10 points each:
Name the objects, nonzero examples of which for the adjoint representation form the Lie algebra’s root system.
This German mathematician’s namesake group sends weights to weights and is thus an isometry group of the root system. This man was the first to study gauge invariance, and he attempted to unify general relativity and electromagnetism.
Weyl groups and other Coxeter groups are generated by these symmetries, which can generate rotations and inversions through a point. This operation about the y axis sends quadrants I and II to quadrants III and IV.
weights [accept theorem of the highest weights]
Hermann Weyl [“vile”] [accept Weyl group]
reflections &lt;Science - Other&gt;
The Racah B-parameter accounts for this interaction. For 10 points each:
Name this interaction whose ratio to the ligand field stabilization energy is plotted along the x-axis in Tanabe–Sugano diagrams. When this interaction overwhelms the splitting, complexes are high-spin.
Repulsion between electron pairs is the only thing taken into account in this model of molecular geometries, which predicts that atoms surrounded by five ligands will adopt a trigonal bipyramidal geometry.
For d6 low-spin complexes, the transition from the 1-A-1 to the 3-T-1 state is forbidden due to this law. This law also explains why manganese(II) ions in water are only weakly colored.
electron-electron repulsion [or electrostatic repulsion; prompt on just repulsion or electrostatic forces]
VSEPR [“vesper”] model [or valence shell electron pair repulsion model ]
spin selection rule [prompt on selection rule, do not prompt on “Laporte selection rule”] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
This theory models Gibbs free energies as parabolic functions of the reaction coordinate. For 10 points each:
Name this theory developed by a Caltech physical chemist that predicts, in certain regimes, that activation energy increases as reactions become more exergonic. It models reactions partially as electrostatic interactions between two conducting spheres submerged in a dielectric solvent.
Supposing outer-sphere contributions dominate, the Gibbs free energy of activation for a self-exchange reaction is exactly equal to one-quarter of this value. This value is the electrostatic energy of a configuration where solvent dipoles are aligned with the oxidized reactant, rather than the reduced product.
The inner-sphere contribution to the activation energy in Marcus theory is influenced by this type of molecular motion, which is slow compared to electronic transitions. These modes of molecular motion are excited by infrared light.
Marcus theory
solvent reorganization energy [prompt on lambda-nought]
vibrations [or vibrational modes] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
This European Space Agency observatory has produced the most precise astrometric database to date. For 10 points each:
Name this observatory currently at the Earth-Sun L2 point, which can measure the position, parallax, and proper motion of more than a billion stars to an accuracy of 20 micro-arcseconds.
Gaia has recorded numerous hypervelocity white dwarves in the Milky Way, providing evidence for the D6 hypothesis concerning the cause of these stellar events. “High-Z” examples of these events were the initial evidence for the accelerating expansion of the universe, and they require the accretion of matter by a white dwarf.
Gaia has provided more accurate values for these parameters, which are defined as the solar system’s rotational velocity and radius from the galactic center. These parameters both have units of kilometers per second per kiloparsec.
Gaia
Type Ia supernovae [prompt on partial answer]
Oort constants &lt;Science - Other&gt;
XIST, a major effector of lyonization, is a gene coding for one of these. For 10 points each:
Name these largely nuclear-localizing RNAs that have high developmental stage specificity and are thought to regulate chromatin structure and gene transcription. There are tens of thousands of these RNAs, with very few having known functions.
This lncRNA has been shown to regulate the expression of metastasis-associated genes like the pro-metastatic transcriptional regulator YAP65 in both lung adenocarcinoma and breast cancer.
LncRNAs have emerged as important regulators of ribosomal RNA production in this cellular substructure. LncRNAs capture and detain proteins like RelA, vHL, and TERT in this cellular substructure.
long noncoding RNAs [or lncRNAs]
Malat1 [or Neat2]
nucleolus [prompt on nucleus] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Answer the following about multiterminal circuit elements, for 10 points each.
This is an ideal two-port circuit element that has perfectly antisymmetric impedance and admittance matrices. The current on the first port is proportional to the voltage on the second, and the current on the second is proportional to the negative voltage on the first.
These devices take as input the difference between two voltages and output a voltage equal to that difference multiplied by some fixed amount. One of the “golden rules” for these devices states that in a closed loop circuit the inputs are ideal voltmeters, whereas the output is an ideal current source.
For a closed-loop op-amp with negative feedback, this value limits to one over the feedback. It’s defined as the closed-loop output voltage over the input voltage.
gyrator
op-amp [or operational amplifier]
closed-loop gain &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
Answer the following about the fabrication of thin layers, for 10 points each.
In this method mainly used for the manufacture of opto·electronics, methylated metals like trimethyl indium vapor are combined with phosphine in the first step, then undergo pyrolysis. Crystals of elemental semiconductor are grown via this chemical reaction on a surface at moderate gas-phase pressures.
This other method for producing thin-films is widely used for producing transistors at the nanoscale. It builds the crystal at a rate of about one atomic layer per second via physical deposition of elemental vapors at pressures of 10-to-the-minus-8 to 10-to-the-minus-12 torr.
Epitaxy is most often used to create thin films of this element doped with p- or n-type impurities. This metalloid element has four valence electrons.
MOVPE [or metal-organic vapor-phase epitaxy; accept metal-organic chemical vapor deposition or MOCVD; prompt on partial answers like chemical vapor deposition or epitaxy]
molecular-beam epitaxy [or MBE]
silicon &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
This bacterial genus is home to a species that is a widespread parasite or endosymbiont. For 10 points each:
Name this bacterial genus, containing a bacterial parasite able to modify the eggs of females to reject sperm from males not harboring the same bacterium. It is also able to protect the host against RNA viruses through an as-of-yet unknown mechanism.
Infection with particular Wolbachia strains has been shown to reduce Dengue transmission by this genus of arthropods that are vectors of Dengue virus. Introduction of Wolbachia into populations of this genus has been used for public health control of Dengue virus.
Wolbachia infection of this model organism has been linked to viral resistance. Hox genes were discovered in this model organism, and cluster into its Antenna·pedia and Bi·thorax complexes.
Wolbachia
Aedes
Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit fly] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
For endpoints <em>a</em> and <em>b</em>, this distribution has a variance of “one-twelfth times quantity <em>a</em> minus <em>b</em>, squared.” For 10 points each:
Name this probability distribution whose PDF looks like a horizontal line segment, since it gives an equal likelihood of an event occurring anywhere within a given interval.
Any continuously-distributed random variable can be converted to a uniform random variable using this transformation, in which you define a new random variable by applying the CDF of X to X itself.
The inverse of the probability integral transform is often used in this task, which can also be performed with the ziggurat algorithm. This process is done to approximate a uniform distribution by the Mersenne Twister.
uniform distribution
probability integral transform
pseudo-random sampling [accept pseudo-random number generation or PRNG; prompt on random number generation or RNG] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
This method allows the approximate solution of a large class of second-order differential equations that appear in quantum mechanics. For 10 points each:
Name this “semiclassical” method that computes tunneling probabilities as the “e to the negative-two-gamma”, where gamma is “one over h-bar times an integral of “square root of twice mass times kinetic energy.””
Another approximation in quantum mechanics, which is named for this term, states that if a change occurs slowly enough, then an initial eigenstate of the Hamiltonian will transform into a final eigenstate. In thermodynamics, this term denotes a type of process that occurs without any heat flux.
In quantum field theory, this approximation can be applied to the problem of very high energy electrons scattering off of a target. The approximation neglects diagrams with no t-channel photon exchanges and treats the electron beam as a source of real photons with an energy distribution proportional to “log of the Mandelstam variable s over electron mass squared.”
JWKB approximation [or Jeffreys–Wentzel–Kramers–Brillouin approximation; or Liouville–Green method; or LG method]
adiabatic theorem [or adiabatic approximation or adiabatic process]
Weizsäcker–Williams approximation [or equivalent photon approximation; or EPA] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
Answer the following about important institutions in the history of organic chemistry, for 10 points each.
First, name this “birthplace of organic chemistry,” where the regio·selectivity of hydro·halogenation of alkenes was first articulated. Arbuzov also developed his namesake reaction here under Zaitsev.
K. Barry Sharpless, the father of click chemistry and developer of multiple stereoselective oxidation reactions, holds a professorship at this place. Phil Baran, a father of organic synthesis, also holds a professorship here.
Kurt Wüthrich, a Nobel laureate holding a professorship from Scripps, invented this spectroscopic method that can be used to obtain protein structures. It uses radio waves to produce a spectrum with peaks at different values of “chemical shift.”
Kazan Federal/Imperial University
Scripps Research [accept The Scripps Research Institute or TSRI]
NMR spectroscopy [or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy or MRS] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
This transmembrane protein has alpha and beta chains and associates with CD3. For 10 points each:
Name this product of VDJ recombination, specific to a single cell type, whose activation leads to increased ERK signaling, NFAT nuclear translocation, and NF-kappaB activation.
The intracellular TCR CD3 complex has ten ITAM domains, some of which are phosphorylated by this kinase when the extracellular portion of the receptor is activated. Those phosphorylated ITAM domains then bind ZAP-70, which is also phosphorylated by this kinase.
In CD4-positive cells, the T-cell receptor is activated when binding to a complex formed by cognate peptide and the second type of these proteins. The first class of these proteins are present on the surface of all human cells.
T-cell receptor [or TCR]
Lck [or lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase]
MHC [or major histo·compatibility complex; accept human leukocyte antigen or HLA] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Answer the following about unsupervised machine learning in computer vision, for 10 points each.
First, name this method in computer vision that only requires a set of images from a single class, training one network to produce fake images, and another “discriminator” network to recognize fake from real images. This method has been used to produce photorealistic fake clothing items, interior designs, and so-called “deepfakes.”
Autoencoders are another type of neural network that aim to compress information into low-dimensional latent space encodings. They are a nonlinear generalization of this linear method for doing the same, which factors any matrix into the product of a two square unitary matrices and a diagonal matrix.
Variational autoencoders have a loss term that computes the KL-divergence between the latent space encoding distribution and this distribution. The central limit theorem concerns convergence to this distribution.
generative adversarial modeling [or generative adversarial networks; or GANs]
singular value decomposition [or SVD; or principal component analysis or PCA]
normal distribution [or Gaussian distribution] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
This formula has both a gamma-to-the-sixth term and a gamma-to-the-fourth term. For 10 points each:
Give this formula that predicts that radiated EM power is proportional to the square of the magnitude of acceleration of component charges.
If acceleration is perpendicular to velocity, the gamma-to-the-sixth term dies and the result is this form of radiation, a relativistic generalization of cyclotron radiation.
Synchrotron radiation is often produced by circulating relativistic electrons in strong magnetic fields. In this effect, those electrons will self-polarize by emitting spin-flip synchrotron radiation, aligning their spins in a direction opposite to the magnetic field.
relativistic Liénard-Larmor law [prompt on answers mentioning Liénard but not Larmor]
synchrotron radiation [or magneto·brems·strahlung; do not accept or prompt on just “brehms·strahlung”]
Sokolov–Ternov effect &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
This theorem gives the conditions under which a uniquely-solvable linear time-invariant circuit has natural frequencies with negative real parts. For 10 points each:
Name this criterion which determines whether signals will decay within an exponential envelope. It involves plotting a “D-contour” on the complex plane and checking if it encircles a certain point.
Nyquist also names a theorem with this scientist that states a signal with highest frequency f can be completely determined by sampling at frequency 2f. This Bell Labs researcher is considered the father of information theory.
Shannon also names a formula with British mathematician J.M. Whittaker that constructs the continuous-time signal that best interpolates a given discrete-time signal, using sums of this function at different frequencies. This function’s Fourier transform is the square wave.
Nyquist stability criterion
Claude (Elwood) Shannon
sinc [or sine x over x; do not accept or prompt on just “sine x”] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
Siletzia is one of these things that accreted onto the coast of Washington state between 59 and 49 million years ago. For 10 points each:
Name these features whose remnants today are often large dike swarms exposed at the surface. They are usually composed of extrusive mafic rocks and are thought to be of mantle plume origin.
The presence of continental flood basalts in Siberia provides evidence for volcanism as a driving force in this extinction, the largest of the “big five.” The Mesozoic era began following this extinction.
Due to their deep mantle origin, large igneous province rocks have a high abundance of this isotope. The enrichment of this isotope in mantle-derived rocks has been used as evidence that the mantle has not undergone outgassing.
large igneous provinces [or LIPs; or traps; or continental flood basalts]
Permian–Triassic extinction [or P–Tr]
helium-3 [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
A “partial” form of this process is used to generate trans fats. For 10 points each:
Name this process for reducing organic compounds, which can use heterogeneous catalysts like Raney nickel or homogeneous ones like Wilkinson’s catalyst.
Crabtree’s catalyst is a highly-efficient homogeneous hydrogenation catalyst containing this metal. This metal is also present in Vaska’s complex, where it can reversibly bind oxygen.
Ryoji Noyori developed an enantio·selective hydrogenation reaction using palladium bound to this bidentate ligand. This ligand is C2-symmetric but exhibits atropisomerism, allowing it to induce chirality into the hydrogenation substrate.
hydrogenation
iridium
BINAP [or 2,2′-bis(diphenylphosphino)-1,1′-binaphthyl; do not accept “BINOL”] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
This gene was the first to be identified as causative for a familial cancer syndrome. For 10 points each:
Give this name used for two different genes important in the homology directed repair pathway. If a person inherits a single inactive copy of either of these genes, they have a much higher risk of breast or ovarian cancer.
Hereditary mutations in this DNA repair pathway, which fixes the incorrect incorporation of bases that occurs rarely during DNA replication, lead to increased risk for colon cancer and endometrial cancer in Lynch syndrome. The cancer genome contains easily-identifiable microsatellite repeats when this pathway is inactive.
In this rare hereditary polyposis of the G·I tract caused by autosomal dominant mutations in the STK11 gene, patients get hamartomatous benign polyps throughout the GI tract at a young age and are easily identified by hyper-pigmented macules on their lips and oral mucosa. Later in life, they are at increased risk for gastric and small bowel cancers, as well as colon cancer.
BRCA [accept BRCA1 or BRCA2]
mismatch repair
Peutz–Jeghers syndrome &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
Phase 3 clinical trials for the live attenuated vaccine against this virus are currently underway in Brazil. For 10 points each:
Name this virus whose infection of the mother that may lead to microcephaly in the fetus. It caused an outbreak in Central and South America starting in 2015.
Zika, like HepC, is a flavivirus, which all have a genomically-encoded soluble NS5 methyl·transferase protein that adds this modification to viral RNAs. This modification is required for RNA persistence and translation in eukaryotes.
This abundant base-level modification of RNA is directed by METTL complexes and “read” by YTH-domain containing proteins. In the decade since its discovery, it has been shown to control stem cell renewal and differentiation and have a role in cancer metastatic progression.
Zika virus [or ZIKV]
5-prime methylGTP-cap [or m7G-cap]
m6A [or N6-methyl·adenosine; accept adenosine methylation; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Science - Biology&gt;
A ring’s set of prime ideals can be given this topology thanks to Hilbert’s Null·stellen·satz. For 10 points each:
Name this topology whose closed sets are the affine algebraic sets in affine n-space over some field.
The set of all prime ideals of a ring is given this name. This term also denotes the set of all eigenvalues of a matrix, and it thus names the theorem that all symmetric matrices have real eigenvalues.
When equipped with the Zariski topology, the spectrum of this mathematician’s namesake kind of ring forms a space in which every subset is compact. Her namesake rings satisfy the descending chain condition.
Zariski topology
spectrum [accept spectral theorem]
(Amalie) Emmy Noether [accept Noetherian ring or Noetherian space] &lt;Science - Other&gt;
Answer the following about organo·tin chemistry, for 10 points each:
Tri·butyl·tin hydride, along with a radical initiator, reacts with a thio·hydrox·amate ester in this reaction to afford an alkane. Those thio·hydrox·amate esters are formed by DCC coupling with a carboxylic acid.
Organo·tin compounds are also coupled to aryl or alkenyl halides via this palladium-catalyzed cross-coupling reaction. This reaction often occurs with higher yields than the Suzuki coupling, but its main drawback is the toxicity of organo·tin compounds.
In the first mechanistic step of the Stille coupling, the palladium metal undergoes this process as it adds into the carbon-halogen bond. Chromium trioxide is used in the Jones reaction of this general type.
Barton decarboxylation
Stille coupling
oxidation [accept Jones oxidation; accept oxidative addition] &lt;Science - Chemistry&gt;
The bound charge density is equal to the negative divergence of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this field that adds to the electric field to get the D-field. It requires the separation of bound charges into dipoles and is nonzero in dielectric materials.
In crystals with this property there is a centrosymmetric configuration above the Curie temperature, but multiple configurations with net polarization density appear below the Curie temperature.
Multi·ferroic materials can be both ferroelectric and ferromagnetic, and are mostly thought to derive their magneto·electric coupling from this interaction. This spin-spin interaction drives the spin canting of antiferromagnetic materials at low temperatures, causing them to obtain a small magnetization density.
electric polarization density [or P]
ferro·electric [do not accept or prompt on “ferromagnetic”]
antisymmetric exchange interaction [accept antiferromagnetic exchange or Dzyaloshinskii–Moriya interaction; prompt on exchange interaction] &lt;Science - Physics&gt;
Thebault and Fontaine found that this property of networks stabilizes mutualistic, bipartite pollination networks. For 10 points each:
Name this property of an ecological network in which aspects with few items interact with items from a large aspect, such as specialist pollinators interacting with plants also pollinated by generalists.
Trophic networks are scale free networks, meaning their node degree distribution follows this functional form. In density-independent conditions, bacteria grow at a rate approximating this functional form.
Borrett showed that the “throughflow” measure of this property can be used to identify keystone species. The eigenvector version of this property quantifies the influence of a node on a network and is the basis of PageRank.
nestedness
power law [or exponential]
centrality [do not accept anything else] &lt;Other Science&gt;
Kantrow et al. countered the idea that this parameter can be used to distinguish sarcoidosis from other types of interstitial lung disease, by showing that it varies between 0.5 and 37.3 in the bronchoalveolar lavage. For 10 points each:
Name this ratio that is typically 2:1 in peripheral blood. Its normal decline in healthy adults is a marker of immunosenescence.
A CD4/CD8 ratio of less than 1 is predictive of this viral disease, which can be treated with entry, integrase, or reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
The CD4/CD8 ratio is weakly predictive of disease outcome in cancer patients, for whom it might be better to consider the ratio of effector T cells to this other T cell population that downregulates the activity of other T cells. These cells are CD4, FoxP3, and CD25 positive.
ratio between CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells [both parts needed, and in that specific order, so do not accept “the CD8 to CD4 ratio"]
HIV-AIDS [or Human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immune deficiency syndrome; do not accept “HIV” or “human immunodeficiency virus” alone]
regulatory T cells [or Tregs; or suppressor T cells] &lt;Biology&gt;
This book claims that it’s a non-contingent fact that there are no unicorns, but doesn’t elaborate on that claim until the addenda. For 10 points each:
Name this book, which consists of transcripts of three lectures Saul Kripke delivered at Princeton in 1970.
Naming and Necessity imagines a situation in which the person who discovered this result actually stole it from a man named Schmidt. This result scuttled Hilbert’s program.
The third lecture of Naming and Necessity disputes the claim from this philosopher’s Logic for Mathematicians that “x = y if and only if ‘x’ and ‘y’ are names for the same object.” This philosopher’s namesake “trick” enables one to prove Gödel’s incompleteness theorem without assuming omega-consistency.
Naming and Necessity
Gödel’s incompleteness theorem [or second incompleteness theorem; prompt on partial answer]
John Barkley Rosser &lt;Philosophy&gt;
Conformally flat spacetimes belong to Type O of this classification. For 10 points each:
Name this system of classification for spacetimes based on the number of principal null components at each point.
The Petrov classification system specifically describes the symmetries of this man’s namesake tensor, which vanishes for conformally flat spacetimes and is defined as the traceless part of the Riemann tensor. This man’s Raum, Zeit, Materie was one of the earliest mathematical expositions of general relativity.
The Petrov classification distinguishes different varieties of these disturbances. Type N spacetime corresponds to these disturbances with transverse polarization, which is the type detected by LIGO.
Petrov classification
Hermann Klaus Hugo Weyl
gravitational waves [or gravitational radiation; grudgingly accept gravity waves; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Physics&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about E.J. Corey’s method of retrosynthetic analysis:
In retrosynthesis, an open arrow made up of two straight lines and a single head indicates this step of breaking a compound up into two smaller fragments.
Disconnections that would create these kinds of structures with seven or more members are discouraged in retrosynthetic planning. Bicyclic compounds like naphthalene contain two fused ones.
This is the term for the minimal required portion of a molecule that can enable a retrosynthetic transform. It should not be confused with the “synthon,” or idealized molecular fragment.
transform [or disconnection]
rings
retron [or keying element] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
The ADMX experiment searches for these hypothetical light scalar particles, which Frank Wilczek named for a brand of dishwashing liquid. For 10 points each:
Identify these dark matter candidates that give all nucleons an oscillating electric dipole moment with frequency proportional to their namesake decay constant. Cosmological populations of these particles may be produced via the misalignment mechanism.
Peccei–Quinn [peh-CHEH-ee-KWIN] theory adds a new gauge group of this type to the Standard Model in order to promote the CP-violating parameter to a dynamical field. The axion represents the Goldstone boson of this broken symmetry. It is also the gauge group of QED.
Axions are possible drivers of inflation in string inflationary models because many axion-like scalars appear in generic examples of these metastable local minima of the string landscape.
axions
U(1) [“U one”] or the unitary group of degree 1
false vacua [or false vacuum states; prompt on (metastable) vacuum or vacua] &lt;Other Science&gt;
The Irish namesake of this process used a photoelectric current to trigger it in experiments where it resulted in a final current equal to the initial photoelectric current times an exponential in the distance over which this process occurred. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which free electrons in a gas are accelerated by an applied field and collide with gas particles to free more electrons, thus generating a rapidly growing electric current.
A Townsend avalanche initiated by high-energy particles such as gamma rays is used to generate a current in these devices, which often signal the detection of radioactivity using a series of audible clicks.
High-energy photons can lose energy in the walls of a Geiger–Mueller tube due to Compton scattering, the photoelectric effect, and through this phenomenon if their energy is above 1.02 MeV.
Townsend avalanche [or Townsend discharge]
Geiger counters
pair production &lt;Physics&gt;
Recent incarnations of these events have produced documents titled <em>Vision and Voyages in Planetary Science</em> and <em>New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these events in which NASA assembles a panel of top astronomers from around the US to sort out its funding priorities for proposed missions. They are named for the typical interval between iterations.
The next decadal survey is probably going to be delayed until the launch of this space telescope. This successor to Hubble is named for NASA’s administrator from 1961-1968.
An early frontrunner for “winning” the 2020 decadal is the Habitable Exoplanet Imaging Mission, which proposes to directly image exoplanets using one of two different methods: one blocks starlight within the telescope pupil, while the other uses a large petal-shaped vehicle that blocks starlight before entering the telescope. Name either method.
Decadal Surveys [accept Decadals or Decadal Reports or Reviews or Assessments]
James Webb Space Telescope [or JWST]
stellar coronagraph or starshade [or space sunshade or sunshield; prompt on occulter or occulting disk] &lt;Other Science&gt;
For 10 points, answer the following about ways of determining the concentration of viruses in a sample.
A simple method is just to count the number of these clear spots that the viruses generate in an agar plate.
The “plaque forming unit” calculated using the above method is equal to 0.69 of the “tissue culture infected dose,” which measures how much virus is needed to kill this percentage of infected hosts. An analogous measure of toxicity is the “lethal dose” needed to kill this percentage of a tested population.
The probability that a given cell will absorb n viral particles follows a Poisson distribution with respect to this quantity, the ratio of viruses to cells.
plaques
50% [or half]
multiplicity of infection [or MOI] &lt;Biology&gt;
An alloy of this element exposed to superheated steam was the cause of the explosion at the Fukushima nuclear power plant. For 10 points each:
Identify this element produced industrially via a modified version of the Kroll process, because of its extreme similarity to titanium.
Samples of zircon, the primary source of zirconium in nature, are often used for this radiometric dating technique that uses two parallel decay chains starting from atoms with 238 or 235 nucleons.
In organic synthesis, hydrozirconations are predominantly carried out using this reagent, which consists of hydrides bridging two zirconium atoms that are each bound to a chlorine atom and two cyclopentadienyl rings.
zirconium [or Zr]
uranium-lead dating
Schwartz’s reagent &lt;Chemistry&gt;
This firm was founded by the imaginatively-named “traitorous eight,” who were unhappy with their treatment working for William Shockley. For 10 points each:
Name this semiconductor manufacturer, the first major technology company in what would become Silicon Valley.
These two men entered the semiconductor industry not long after Fairchild, but their namesake company branched out into computers as well. The garage in Palo Alto where they worked has been preserved as a historical site.
The success of Silicon Valley was augmented by this Department of Defense agency, which funded the development of computer technology for military use. TCP/IP technology was developed in the 1970s by this agency.
Fairchild Semiconductor
William Hewlett and David Packard [both answers required]
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency [accept ARPA or DARPA] &lt;American History&gt;
This condition may result in a second, upward R′ [R-prime] deflection in the QRS complex. For 10 points each:
Identify this alliteratively-named type of defect in the conduction system of the heart, caused by injury to the fascicles that transmit cardiac action potentials to the Purkinje fibers.
The presence of a T wave displacement opposite the major deflection of a QRS complex lasting at least 120 milliseconds indicates a type of bundle branch block in which this largest and strongest chamber of the heart contracts later than usual.
An “incomplete” left bundle branch block was clinically reported for the first time by this cardiologist, whose An Introduction to Electrocardiography is reportedly the most common book stolen from medical school libraries. He also names a “window" formed by pressing the backs of index fingers together, which is absent in people with clubbed nails.
bundle branch block [or left bundle branch block; or right bundle branch block; or left anterior fascicular block; or left posterior fascicular block; or bifascicular block; or trifascicular block; or tachycardia-dependent bundle branch block; prompt on heart block]
left ventricle
Leo Schamroth &lt;Biology&gt;
To remove moisture from the cake in these filters, gas is run through the cake and then the rotation of the paddle and auger arms is reversed to seal cracks in the cake. For 10 points each:
Name these devices used in batch systems that consist of a large cylindrical vessel designed to accept an entire discharge from the upstream reactor. These filters are scaled up versions of Buchner funnels for industrial use.
Although some rely on pressure, most nutsche filters create this extremely low pressure state to force the slurry through the filter media. This state can be created by namesake pumps which remove gas particles from a sealed volume.
Wettened filter paper is placed in on the plate of this common laboratory funnel, which uses vacuum suction to filter materials into the flask below.
nutsche filter [accept agitated nutsche filter; accept nutsche vacuum filter; accept nutsche pressure filter; accept nutsche filter-dryer; basically accept anything mentioning nutsche]
vacuum
Büchner funnel &lt;Chemistry&gt;
Thebault and Fontaine found that this property of networks stabilizes mutualistic, bipartite pollination networks. For 10 points each:
Name this property of an ecological network in which aspects with few items interact with items from a large aspect, such as specialist pollinators interacting with plants also pollinated by generalists.
Trophic networks are scale free networks, meaning their node degree distribution follows this functional form. In density-independent conditions, bacteria grow at a rate approximating this functional form.
Borrett showed that the “throughflow” measure of this property can be used to identify keystone species. The eigenvector version of this property quantifies the influence of a node on a network and is the basis of PageRank.
nestedness
power law [or exponential]
centrality [do not accept anything else] &lt;Other Science&gt;
In this formulation, the partial time derivative of the Wigner function equals the negative of the Moyal bracket of the Wigner function and the Hamiltonian. For 10 points each:
Name this formulation of quantum mechanics that uses a quasiprobability distribution to describe a quantum state.
José Enrique Moyal and this physicist independently developed the phase space formulation. This man and van Howe lend their names to the first no-go theorem for quantization.
In the phase space formulation, the Wigner-Weyl transform takes the Moyal bracket to this binary operation and vice versa. This operation on the Hermitian operators A and B returns AB minus BA.
phase space formulation
Hilbrand Johannes “Hip” Groenewold
commutator &lt;Physics&gt;
This firm was founded by the imaginatively-named “traitorous eight,” who were unhappy with their treatment working for William Shockley. For 10 points each:
Name this semiconductor manufacturer, the first major technology company in what would become Silicon Valley.
These two men entered the semiconductor industry not long after Fairchild, but their namesake company branched out into computers as well. The garage in Palo Alto where they worked has been preserved as a historical site.
The success of Silicon Valley was augmented by this Department of Defense agency, which funded the development of computer technology for military use. TCP/IP technology was developed in the 1970s by this agency.
Fairchild Semiconductor
William Hewlett and David Packard [both answers required]
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency [accept ARPA or DARPA] &lt;American History&gt;
This condition may result in a second, upward R′ [R-prime] deflection in the QRS complex. For 10 points each:
Identify this alliteratively-named type of defect in the conduction system of the heart, caused by injury to the fascicles that transmit cardiac action potentials to the Purkinje fibers.
The presence of a T wave displacement opposite the major deflection of a QRS complex lasting at least 120 milliseconds indicates a type of bundle branch block in which this largest and strongest chamber of the heart contracts later than usual.
An “incomplete” left bundle branch block was clinically reported for the first time by this cardiologist, whose An Introduction to Electrocardiography is reportedly the most common book stolen from medical school libraries. He also names a “window" formed by pressing the backs of index fingers together, which is absent in people with clubbed nails.
bundle branch block [or left bundle branch block; or right bundle branch block; or left anterior fascicular block; or left posterior fascicular block; or bifascicular block; or trifascicular block; or tachycardia-dependent bundle branch block; prompt on heart block]
left ventricle
Leo Schamroth &lt;Biology&gt;
To remove moisture from the cake in these filters, gas is run through the cake and then the rotation of the paddle and auger arms is reversed to seal cracks in the cake. For 10 points each:
Name these devices used in batch systems that consist of a large cylindrical vessel designed to accept an entire discharge from the upstream reactor. These filters are scaled up versions of Buchner funnels for industrial use.
Although some rely on pressure, most nutsche filters create this extremely low pressure state to force the slurry through the filter media. This state can be created by namesake pumps which remove gas particles from a sealed volume.
Wettened filter paper is placed in on the plate of this common laboratory funnel, which uses vacuum suction to filter materials into the flask below.
nutsche filter [accept agitated nutsche filter; accept nutsche vacuum filter; accept nutsche pressure filter; accept nutsche filter-dryer; basically accept anything mentioning nutsche]
vacuum
Büchner funnel &lt;Chemistry&gt;
Answer the following about relativistic thermodynamics, for 10 points each:
The ultra-relativistic equation of state, which applies to a photon gas, sets this quantity equal to one-third the energy density. Light sails are designed to push spaceships using this force per unit area.
The temperature measured by observers at different points is not constant in a body at thermal equilibrium; instead, the constant value is the measured temperature times the square root of the zero zero component of this tensor. For a weak gravitational field, its zero zero component is one plus twice the gravitational potential over c squared.
John Stewart and this physicist produced an influential model of causal, near-equilibrium thermodynamics in the context of general relativity. On his own, he proved the first no-hair theorem, for the case of the Schwarzschild metric.
pressure [accept radiation pressure]
metric tensor
Werner Israel &lt;Physics&gt;
A classic experiment in this field involves observing the intermediates that are formed when iodine cyanide dissociates. For 10 points each:
Name this field of chemistry that uses ultrafast laser pulses and pump-probe spectroscopy to study reactions at timescales of “10 to the minus-15” seconds.
Femtochemical techniques were used to elucidate the “hula-twist” mechanism for the photoisomerization of this compound, which consists of two phenyl groups bonded at either end of ethylene.
In one of Ahmed Zewail’s foundational photochemistry experiments, an ultrashort laser pulse was fired a van der Waals complex of HI and this compound. The highest power continuous wave lasers make use of this linear gas.
femtochemistry
stilbene
CO2 [or carbon dioxide] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
This phenomenon may arise due to "reciprocal pruning" of adjacent limbs, especially in environments prone to natural abrasions like frequent winds. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which the above-ground parts of some species of tree do not touch one another, resulting in channel-like gaps through which light streams in.
A major theory explaining the development of crown shyness in some trees is mutual perception of neighboring trees at the photoreceptor phytochrome, which picks up on the large quantities of this specific spectrum of visible light with a wavelength between 710 and 850 nm, which is reflected during photosynthesis.
JJ Casal showed that this species grows leaves away from its kin, but shades unrelated neighbors. The HOTHEAD gene of this model plant probably doesn’t actually exhibit non-Mendelian inheritance.
crown shyness [or canopy disengagement, or canopy shyness, or intercrown spacing]
far-red light [or deep-red light; or other answers indicating that the light is very red; prompt on red light; do not accept or prompt on “infrared”]
Arabidopsis thaliana &lt;Biology&gt;
In 2012, a composite image of this title was produced using data from the VIIRS aboard Suomi NPP. For 10 points each:
Give this title used for a photo taken during the Apollo 17 mission, which depicts a cloud-covered Southern Hemisphere.
The Blue Marble is a slightly higher-resolution image of Earth than this photo taken by Voyager 1 after Carl Sagan requested that NASA have it take a photo as it left the solar system.
This American writer lobbied NASA to release a color photo of the Earth throughout the 1960s. After they did in 1967, he put the image on the first issue of his seminal DIY magazine, Whole Earth Catalog.
The Blue Marble [or Blue Marble 2012]
Pale Blue Dot
Stewart Brand &lt;Other Academic&gt;
Materials commonly found in these structures include namesake claylike “gouge” deposits. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that are typically bounded by a hanging wall and a footwall.
Seismic activity along a fault powers the “cataclastic” form of this process. Its “contact” form typically occurs around an igneous intrusion that heats the surrounding rock.
Seismic activity also produces these polished rock surfaces with parallel grooves indicating the direction of fault movement. They are sometimes confused with surfaces marked by glacial striations.
seismic faults [accept fault gouge]
metamorphism [accept cataclastic or contact metamorphism; accept answers indicating the formation of metamorphic rocks; do not accept or prompt on metamorphosis]
slickensides &lt;Other Science&gt;
Based on pigment reconstruction of <em>Anchiornis huxleyi</em>, these structures were used in territorial displays even when they were unbranched barbs in Stage I or Stage II. For 10 points each:
Name these structures whose early stages were described from Sinosauropteryx and eventually evolved into a pennaceous structure.
Feathers enabled the evolution of flight, which is thought to have arisen from wing-assisted incline running, a specific case of this general theory of flight evolution that is opposed to the arboreal theory.
In his ignored “pouncing proavis” theory of flight evolution, Adrian Thomas suggested that flight evolved from the ambush form of this behavior. Cougars employ the ambush form of this behavior to catch prey which is done as a group by African wild dogs.
protofeathers [or dino fuzz]
cursorial [or ground-up]
hunting [prompt on predation or foraging, but Eliza won’t be happy] &lt;Other Science&gt;
“Optical” approaches to this process took off following a 1984 paper describing the effect of a nanosecond-pulse laser that was focused on a spot on the plasma membrane of rat kidney cells. For 10 points each:
Identify this process of generating transient pores in cell membranes to introduce nucleic acids specifically into eukaryotic, typically animal, cells.
A much lower-tech method of transfection involves forming a precipitate between HEPES [“heaps”] buffer supplemented with these ions, and a calcium chloride solution containing DNA. The “backbone” of DNA consists of alternating residues of deoxyribose and these anions.
A neomycin resistance marker may be co-transfected with the DNA construct in this variety of transfection, which applies antibiotic selection pressure to ensure the survival of only the cells capable of dividing and passing on the DNA.
transfection
phosphates
stable transfection &lt;Biology&gt;
Answer some questions about the weak force, for 10 points each:
Lepton and quark flavor can be changed by this class of interactions mediated by the W+ and W- bosons of the weak force. Instances of the counterparts of these interactions that change flavor are suppressed by the GIM mechanism.
Unlike charged currents, neutral currents are mediated by this gauge boson. Along with the W+ and W- bosons, this gauge boson carries the weak force.
Function and argument required. The mass of the Z boson is equal to the mass of the W boson divided by this quantity, which equals the weak isospin divided by the square root of the sum of the squares of the weak isospin and weak hypercharge. CODATA 2014 gave a value of 0.2223 for an expression equal to one minus the square of this quantity.
weak charged currents or charged current interactions
Z0 boson
cosine of the Weinberg angle [or cosine of the weak mixing angle; or cosine of theta sub W] &lt;Physics&gt;
This compound was used to denature ribonuclease A in Anfinsen’s experiment. For 10 points each:
Identify this compound used in studies of protein folding, typically at a concentration of 8 molar.
The most common chemical denaturants in protein folding studies are urea and guanidinium hydrochloride, the latter of which is found on the side chain of this basic amino acid, that like lysine or histidine is positively charged.
Urea and guanidinium hydrochloride are both chaotropes, meaning they destabilize water-water interactions, in contrast with these other agents that enhance solvent-solvent interactions and stabilize protein structure.
urea
arginine [or Arg, or R]
kosmotropes [or kosmotropic agents] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
Cea’s lemma is used to prove error bounds in this class of methods. For 10 points each:
Name this class of methods that simplify partial differential equations by breaking up a computational domain into a number of namesake small domains and finding approximate solutions in each domain using variational methods. A similar “volume”-based method solves using flux conservation instead.
Richard Courant pioneered the use of this shape in finite element methods, which gives better performance on second order elliptic PDEs in two dimensions. Given a set of points in a plane, several of these shapes are generated by a construction named for Boris Delaunay such that none of the original points is inside the circumcircle of any of these shapes.
This mathematical object is constructed when using finite element methods to solve the Poisson equation in statics. It relates the stress and nodal displacement vectors based on the principle of virtual work.
finite element analysis/method [do not accept or prompt on “finite volume method”]
triangle [accept answers involving triangular finite elements]
stiffness matrix &lt;Other Science&gt;
A 2011 update of this paper subtitled “the next generations” highlights gain of function mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 in identifying “reprogramming energy metabolism” as one of the “emerging” title features. For 10 points each:
Name this 2000 paper, the most cited in the history of the journal Cell, in which Douglas Hanahan and Robert Weinberg identify six traits that a certain class of diseases share in common, such as “evading apoptosis” and “sustaining angiogenesis.”
The original paper’s section “Insensitivity to Anti-Growth Signals” discusses the cell cycle control exerted by the hypophosphorylated form of this tumor suppressor protein, which Weinberg was the first to discover. A namesake vision-affecting cancer results from two “hits” to the gene encoding this protein.
Critics of the original paper have commented the five of the six hallmarks are shared by benign tumors, which only lack this ability to spread to secondary sites in the body.
“The Hallmarks of Cancer”
retinoblastoma [or Rb]
metastasis &lt;Biology&gt;
A spectrum of these values can be defined based on initial separations with different orientations. For 10 points each:
Given two trajectories in phase space with an infinitesimal initial separation dx, the linearized divergence rate is given by the norm of “dx times eto the lambda-t,” where lambda is this value.
Positive Lyapunov exponents signal the extreme sensitivity to initial conditions characteristic of these deterministic but unpredictable dynamical systems.
For a given pair of local unitary operators U and V, examples of these functions that are “out of time order” are used to describe scrambling and chaos in quantum systems, and are closely related to the squared commutator of U(t) [“U of T”] and V(0) [“V of zero”].
Lyapunov exponent(s)
chaotic dynamical systems or chaos
out of time order correlators or correlation functions [prompt on OTOC] &lt;Physics&gt;
The “solid oxide” variant of these devices has three ceramic layers, giving it a degree of geometrical flexibility in design at the cost of long startup times due to high starting temperature. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices that generate electricity by reacting hydrogen with oxygen or an oxidizer. They can supply energy over a much longer period of time than batteries, because they are continuously supplied with reactants from an external source.source.
Fuel cells experience an “activation loss” as the current density increases, due to the concomitant increase in this measure of deviation between a half-reaction’s thermodynamically predicted and actual potentials.
Fuel cells can also experience mass transport loss when their gas diffusion layers are flooded with excess liquid water, which can be removed using these devices that apply electric fields on electrical double layers to generate pressure.
fuel cells
overpotential
electro·osmotic pumps [or EO pumps] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
These rules can be generalized with the addition of variables for the number of missing vertices and the number of caps. For 10 points each:
Name this modification of Wade’s rules, which give the number of skeletal electron pairs that are necessary for a closed macro-polyhedral system to be stable.
The Jemmis mno rules correctly explain that the compound with 20 atoms of this element and 18 atoms of hydrogen is neutral, despite Wade’s rules giving it a charge of +2 because it fails to account for vertex sharing.
According to Wade’s rules, if a closo cluster contains n vertices, where n is the number of boron atoms, how many skeletal electron pairs are required for the cluster to be stable? Give your answer in terms of n.
Jemmis mno rules [accept either underlined portion]
boron
n+1 &lt;Chemistry&gt;
Based on an experiment involving this game that was run in India, Steffen Andersen et al. concluded that as its stakes increase, rejection rates approach zero. For 10 points each:
Name this two-person game in which the first actor must decide how to split a given sum of money, after which the second actor must choose to either accept the split or reject it, in which case both players receive nothing.
Sanfey et al. used this imaging technique commonly employed in neuroeconomic studies to analyze what areas of the brain are active during the ultimatum game. Seiji Ogawa discovered the BOLD contrast used by this technique.
Fehr and Schmidt coined this two-word term to refer to actors’ resistance to unfair outcomes in the ultimatum game. Sarah Brosnan discovered this behavior among capuchin monkeys who were given unequal rewards by the experimenter.
ultimatum game [do not accept “dictator game”]
fMRI [or functional magnetic resonance imaging; prompt on partial answer]
inequity aversion [or IA] &lt;Social Science&gt;
In a seminal 1956 paper, Richard Twiss and this man reported on an experiment in which a pair of photomultiplier tubes were pointed at the star Sirius. For 10 points each:
Name this physicist whose work with Twiss on intensity interferometry showed that photons undergo “bunching” in certain circumstances.
In a 2007 experiment on the Hanbury Brown-Twiss effect , Chris Westbrook observed bunching and antibunching behavior in what was claimed to be the first direct comparison in a single apparatus of the different “statistics” governing bosons and these particles. They have half-integer spin.
This American explained why beams of thermal radiation display photon bunching while laser beams do not. He won half of the 2005 Physics Nobel for his work on “the quantum theory of optical coherence.”
Robert Hanbury Brown [or Robert Hanbury Brown]
fermions
Roy Jay Glauber &lt;Physics&gt;
The Betti numbers of a space are given by the ranks of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic objects that are constructed by taking abstract linear combinations of edges, called “chains,” and then quotienting out the “cycles” from those chains by the “boundaries.”
You can produce a nicer set of “reduced” homology groups by sticking this group in near the end of the chain complex. The circle group is often written as R quotiented by this group, which is, up to isomorphism, the unique infinite cyclic group.
Although singular homology is more general, it’s much more practical to actually calculate the groups using the homology named for these shapes. This is the n-dimensional generalization of the triangle and tetrahedron.
homology groups [do not accept or prompt on answers including the words “homotopy” or “cohomology”]
the integers [or Z]
simplicial homology [or simplex; or simplices; or simplicial complex] &lt;Other Science&gt;
This phenomenon is important only in atoms or ions that have shells which are one electron short of being half-filled. For 10 points each:
Identify this phenomenon named for an American physicist, which can be derived by applying second-order perturbation theory to the sum of the Hamiltonian of an electron in a magnetic field and an electron spin Hamiltonian. It is negligible in most materials, but contributes significantly to the properties of samarium and europium.
The contribution of Van Vleck paramagnetism to the susceptibility is independent of this variable. Materials transition from ferromagnetic to paramagnetic at a value of this property known as the Curie point.
The Van Vleck susceptibility is proportional to the square of one of these quantities, specifically the magnetic moment operator sandwiched between the ground state and an excited state. In general, this two-word phrase refers to an operator sandwiched between a bra and a ket.
Van Vleck paramagnetism [prompt on partial answer]
temperature
matrix elements &lt;Physics&gt;
The <em>Rf</em> or <em>Fr</em> “restorers" from one of these two organelles restore fertility to plants that are sterile because of deleterious mutations in the genome of the other. For 10 points each:
Identify these two different organelles that contain the majority of the DNA in non-plant eukaryotes.
In recent years, evolutionary biologists have modified this model of hybrid incompatibility to account for the lack of co-occurrence between nuclear and mitochondrial genes, rather than just between nuclear genes.
Mossman et al. examined how the diet of Drosophila engineered to express a combination of 72 nuclear and mitochondrial genotypes interacted with this genetic phenomenon, in which nuclear genes “mask” mitochondrial genes, or vice versa.
mitochondria and nucleus [or mitochondrion and nucleus; accept in either order]
Bateson–Dobzhansky–Muller Model
epistasis [or epistatic effects] &lt;Biology&gt;
Among other goals, the PANDA experiment intends to study these composite particles, which are unique in the Standard Model in that they can have a total angular momentum of 2 or 3 in their ground state. For 10 points each:
Name these hypothetical particles that are made up of strong-force-carrying particles without any valence quarks.
Glueballs are predicted by this theory of the strong force, which uses the concepts of asymptotic freedom and color confinement.
This man and Giovanni Jona-Lasinio introduced a model of nucleons and mesons that is seen as a low-energy approximation of QCD at the chiral limit. 47 years later, Jona-Lasinio presented this man’s Nobel lecture.
glueballs
quantum chromodynamics [or QCD]
Yoichiro Nambu [accept Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model] &lt;Physics&gt;
The variance of this quantity is the Fisher information. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which equals the partial derivative of the log-likelihood with respect to a given parameter.
The maximum likelihood estimator for a parameter is asymptotically efficient, meaning it achieves the lower bound on variance set by this rule. It states that the variance of any unbiased estimator of a parameter is at least as high as the inverse of the Fisher information for that parameter.
Maximum likelihood estimation is analogous to the use of this man’s namesake “multipliers” in optimization problems. With Euler, this Frenchman co-names a PDE originally used to find the stationary point in the tautochrone problem.
score function
Cramér-Rao bound or inequality
Joseph-Louis Lagrange [accept Lagrange multipliers or Euler-Lagrange equation] &lt;Other Science&gt;
In his 1952 paper “The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis,” this man identified patterns that emerge only if there is a long-range inhibitor that diffuses faster than a short-range activator that has positive feedback. For 10 points each:
Identify this polymath who names repeated patterns with finite wavelength, such as zebra stripes and lizard scales. He first formulated reaction-diffusion networks during his late in life stint as a theoretical biologist.
Turing proposed that a small perturbation on a spherical system could lead to predictable chemical patterning every time, such as during this part of embryonic development, when the spherical symmetry of the blastula is broken due to the formation of a primitive streak.
The exact definition of positive feedback loops in biochemical systems is usually attributed to this Israeli biologist, who more or less invented systems biology with his observation of network motifs in the transcriptome of E. coli, which he included in his classic textbook on the subject.
Alan (Mathison) Turing
gastrulation [or word forms]
Uri Alon &lt;Biology&gt;
The fact that these structures do not disappear despite differential rotation rates is referred to as the “winding problem,” which is resolved by density wave theory. For 10 points each:
Name these structures, two of which emerge from the ends of a central “bar” in structures like NGC 1300 [“N G C thirteen hundred”].
Density wave theory makes a distinction between the orbital speeds of individual stars and this angular speed at which the density wave, and thus the spiral arm, propagates.
Density waves may grow out of initial perturbations which prevent the galactic disc from having this property. A system has this property if all quantities do not depend on the angular coordinate in cylindrical coordinates.
spiral arms [of galaxies]
pattern speed
axisymmetric [or word forms like axisymmetry; prompt on “(cylindrical) symmetry” or “rotational symmetry”] &lt;Other&gt;
These compounds are supported on a Wang resin as groups protected by Boc or Fmoc are added to them. For 10 points each:
Name these biological compounds that can be synthesized in the laboratory via a “solid phase” method pioneered by Robert Merrifield.
Merrifield’s solid-phase peptide synthesis was a precursor to this field of chemistry, which uses techniques like the teabag method and the split and mix synthesis to quickly generate extremely large libraries of peptides or other molecules.
The multipin method for combinatorial synthesis makes a different compound in each of this many wells on a standard-sized microtiter plate. The standard microtiter plate one size larger than the one with this many wells has 384 wells.
peptides [or proteins]
combinatorial chemistry
96 &lt;Chemistry&gt;
While Maxwell's equations are fun individually, they can be combined to yield even cooler results. For 10 points each:
Taking the divergence of both sides of Ampere's law, then substituting Gauss's law, yields one of these general equations that describe the transport of some quantity that is not created or destroyed. They equate the time derivative of a “density” to the divergence of a “flux.”
In free space, Maxwell's equations can be reduced to wave equations for the electric and magnetic fields by using an identity from vector calculus regarding this specific combination of operations.
Both Gauss's law of magnetism and Faraday's law can be represented by stating that the covariant derivative of this quantity equals zero. This antisymmetric pseudotensor is symbolized G, and its non-vanishing zeroth components are the components of the magnetic field.
continuity equations or conservation laws [accept hyperbolic equations or conservation laws; prompt on wave equations]
curl of the curl [accept del cross del cross; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
dual electromagnetic field strength tensor [prompt on “dual tensor”; do not accept or prompt on “field tensor” or “electromagnetic field tensor” or “Faraday tensor” or “Maxwell tensor” or “Maxwell bivector”] &lt;Physics&gt;
In this formulation, the partial time derivative of the Wigner function equals the negative of the Moyal bracket of the Wigner function and the Hamiltonian. For 10 points each:
Name this formulation of quantum mechanics that uses a quasiprobability distribution to describe a quantum state.
José Enrique Moyal and this physicist independently developed the phase space formulation. This man and van Howe lend their names to the first no-go theorem for quantization.
In the phase space formulation, the Wigner-Weyl transform takes the Moyal bracket to this binary operation and vice versa. This operation on the Hermitian operators A and B returns AB minus BA.
phase space formulation
Hilbrand Johannes “Hip” Groenewold
commutator &lt;Physics&gt;
A classic experiment in this field involves observing the intermediates that are formed when iodine cyanide dissociates. For 10 points each:
Name this field of chemistry that uses ultrafast laser pulses and pump-probe spectroscopy to study reactions at timescales of “10 to the minus-15” seconds.
Femtochemical techniques were used to elucidate the “hula-twist” mechanism for the photoisomerization of this compound, which consists of two phenyl groups bonded at either end of ethylene.
In one of Ahmed Zewail’s foundational photochemistry experiments, an ultrashort laser pulse was fired a van der Waals complex of HI and this compound. The highest power continuous wave lasers make use of this linear gas.
femtochemistry
stilbene
CO2 [or carbon dioxide] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
This phenomenon may arise due to "reciprocal pruning" of adjacent limbs, especially in environments prone to natural abrasions like frequent winds. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which the above-ground parts of some species of tree do not touch one another, resulting in channel-like gaps through which light streams in.
A major theory explaining the development of crown shyness in some trees is mutual perception of neighboring trees at the photoreceptor phytochrome, which picks up on the large quantities of this specific spectrum of visible light with a wavelength between 710 and 850 nm, which is reflected during photosynthesis.
JJ Casal showed that this species grows leaves away from its kin, but shades unrelated neighbors. The HOTHEAD gene of this model plant probably doesn’t actually exhibit non-Mendelian inheritance.
crown shyness [or canopy disengagement, or canopy shyness, or intercrown spacing]
far-red light [or deep-red light; or other answers indicating that the light is very red; prompt on red light; do not accept or prompt on “infrared”]
Arabidopsis thaliana &lt;Biology&gt;
In 2012, a composite image of this title was produced using data from the VIIRS aboard Suomi NPP. For 10 points each:
Give this title used for a photo taken during the Apollo 17 mission, which depicts a cloud-covered Southern Hemisphere.
The Blue Marble is a slightly higher-resolution image of Earth than this photo taken by Voyager 1 after Carl Sagan requested that NASA have it take a photo as it left the solar system.
This American writer lobbied NASA to release a color photo of the Earth throughout the 1960s. After they did in 1967, he put the image on the first issue of his seminal DIY magazine, Whole Earth Catalog.
The Blue Marble [or Blue Marble 2012]
Pale Blue Dot
Stewart Brand &lt;Other Academic&gt;
Materials commonly found in these structures include namesake claylike “gouge” deposits. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that are typically bounded by a hanging wall and a footwall.
Seismic activity along a fault powers the “cataclastic” form of this process. Its “contact” form typically occurs around an igneous intrusion that heats the surrounding rock.
Seismic activity also produces these polished rock surfaces with parallel grooves indicating the direction of fault movement. They are sometimes confused with surfaces marked by glacial striations.
seismic faults [accept fault gouge]
metamorphism [accept cataclastic or contact metamorphism; accept answers indicating the formation of metamorphic rocks; do not accept or prompt on metamorphosis]
slickensides &lt;Other Science&gt;
This condition, which commonly arises as a complication of a fracture, has symptoms identified by the mnemonic “the five Ps.” For 10 points each:
Name this condition in which intense pressure builds up in one section of the body, such as an arm or leg, constricting the ability of blood to adequately supply the tissues with oxygen and nutrients.
Aside from amputation, the main surgical treatment for compartment syndrome is to cut this type of connective tissue that encloses muscles or other organs.
Untreated compartment syndrome may lead to this form of unprogrammed cell death. This type of tissue death turns the skin from red to purple to black in an extremely gross “fasciitis” [fu-“SHY”-diss] following infection by “flesh-eating bacteria.”
compartment syndrome
fascia [FASH-uh]
necrosis [accept word forms, such as necrotic] &lt;Biology&gt;
This kind of stochastic process creates exchangeable partitions of the set of integers at each step, with specified probabilities.
Name this kind of process useful in Bayesian nonparametric modeling, which analogizes those partitions to customers choosing tables to sit at in a namesake location.
The Chinese remainder theorem allows one to solve a system of these relations, assuming that each of the involved moduli are pairwise coprime. These relations are denoted by three horizontal lines.
This Chinese-American mathematician proved a conjecture that a compact Kähler manifold whose first Chern class has a definite sign will have a Kähler-Einstein metric of the same Chern class. 6-dimensional examples of such manifolds with vanishing first Chern class are partly named for this man.
Chinese restaurant process
linear modular congruences
Shing-Tung Yau [accept Calabi-Yau manifold] &lt;Other Science&gt;
Superclusters are typically found in these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these large structures that are often linear, but may also be planar in form, as with the CfA2 Great Wall.
Galactic filaments can be found in survey data using a friends-of-friends algorithm or an algorithm to generate one of these structures. For a connected, undirected graph, this is the set of edges that connects all vertices with no cycles and with the smallest total edge weight.
It’s not the Millenium project, but this undertaking is currently using up to 30 billion particles to simulate the large-scale evolution of the universe. Its code, Arepo, utilizes a moving, unstructured mesh based on Voronoi tessellation.
galactic filaments [accept galactic sheets; prompt on supercluster complexes]
minimal spanning tree [or MST]
Illustris project &lt;Other Science&gt;
In a seminal 1956 paper, Richard Twiss and this man reported on an experiment in which a pair of photomultiplier tubes were pointed at the star Sirius. For 10 points each:
Name this physicist whose work with Twiss on intensity interferometry showed that photons undergo “bunching” in certain circumstances.
In a 2007 experiment on the Hanbury Brown-Twiss effect , Chris Westbrook observed bunching and antibunching behavior in what was claimed to be the first direct comparison in a single apparatus of the different “statistics” governing bosons and these particles. They have half-integer spin.
This American explained why beams of thermal radiation display photon bunching while laser beams do not. He won half of the 2005 Physics Nobel for his work on “the quantum theory of optical coherence.”
Robert Hanbury Brown [or Robert Hanbury Brown]
fermions
Roy Jay Glauber &lt;Physics&gt;
Based on pigment reconstruction of <em>Anchiornis huxleyi</em>, these structures were used in territorial displays even when they were unbranched barbs in Stage I or Stage II. For 10 points each:
Name these structures whose early stages were described from Sinosauropteryx and eventually evolved into a pennaceous structure.
Feathers enabled the evolution of flight, which is thought to have arisen from wing-assisted incline running, a specific case of this general theory of flight evolution that is opposed to the arboreal theory.
In his ignored “pouncing proavis” theory of flight evolution, Adrian Thomas suggested that flight evolved from the ambush form of this behavior. Cougars employ the ambush form of this behavior to catch prey which is done as a group by African wild dogs.
protofeathers [or dino fuzz]
cursorial [or ground-up]
hunting [prompt on predation or foraging, but Eliza won’t be happy] &lt;Other Science&gt;
“Optical” approaches to this process took off following a 1984 paper describing the effect of a nanosecond-pulse laser that was focused on a spot on the plasma membrane of rat kidney cells. For 10 points each:
Identify this process of generating transient pores in cell membranes to introduce nucleic acids specifically into eukaryotic, typically animal, cells.
A much lower-tech method of transfection involves forming a precipitate between HEPES [“heaps”] buffer supplemented with these ions, and a calcium chloride solution containing DNA. The “backbone” of DNA consists of alternating residues of deoxyribose and these anions.
A neomycin resistance marker may be co-transfected with the DNA construct in this variety of transfection, which applies antibiotic selection pressure to ensure the survival of only the cells capable of dividing and passing on the DNA.
transfection
phosphates
stable transfection &lt;Biology&gt;
Answer some questions about the weak force, for 10 points each:
Lepton and quark flavor can be changed by this class of interactions mediated by the W+ and W- bosons of the weak force. Instances of the counterparts of these interactions that change flavor are suppressed by the GIM mechanism.
Unlike charged currents, neutral currents are mediated by this gauge boson. Along with the W+ and W- bosons, this gauge boson carries the weak force.
Function and argument required. The mass of the Z boson is equal to the mass of the W boson divided by this quantity, which equals the weak isospin divided by the square root of the sum of the squares of the weak isospin and weak hypercharge. CODATA 2014 gave a value of 0.2223 for an expression equal to one minus the square of this quantity.
weak charged currents or charged current interactions
Z0 boson
cosine of the Weinberg angle [or cosine of the weak mixing angle; or cosine of theta sub W] &lt;Physics&gt;
Like AES and SIMS, this technique analyzes surfaces to a depth of about 10 nm. For 10 points each:
Name this method of analyzing the elemental composition of surfaces by irradiating with high-energy photons and then measuring the number and energy of ejected electrons. Kai Siegbahn earned a share of the 1981 Nobel in Physics for his work on this technique, which is sometimes called XPS.
The broadness of peaks in XPS is often measured using this standard, which is similar to the half-power point used in signal processing. It is the distance between points at 50 percent of the peak height.
Elements lighter than this one are nearly impossible to detect with XPS because they do not have core electrons.
x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy [accept ESCA or electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis]
full width at half maximum [or FWHM]
lithium &lt;Physics&gt;
This compound was used to denature ribonuclease A in Anfinsen’s experiment. For 10 points each:
Identify this compound used in studies of protein folding, typically at a concentration of 8 molar.
The most common chemical denaturants in protein folding studies are urea and guanidinium hydrochloride, the latter of which is found on the side chain of this basic amino acid, that like lysine or histidine is positively charged.
Urea and guanidinium hydrochloride are both chaotropes, meaning they destabilize water-water interactions, in contrast with these other agents that enhance solvent-solvent interactions and stabilize protein structure.
urea
arginine [or Arg, or R]
kosmotropes [or kosmotropic agents] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
Cea’s lemma is used to prove error bounds in this class of methods. For 10 points each:
Name this class of methods that simplify partial differential equations by breaking up a computational domain into a number of namesake small domains and finding approximate solutions in each domain using variational methods. A similar “volume”-based method solves using flux conservation instead.
Richard Courant pioneered the use of this shape in finite element methods, which gives better performance on second order elliptic PDEs in two dimensions. Given a set of points in a plane, several of these shapes are generated by a construction named for Boris Delaunay such that none of the original points is inside the circumcircle of any of these shapes.
This mathematical object is constructed when using finite element methods to solve the Poisson equation in statics. It relates the stress and nodal displacement vectors based on the principle of virtual work.
finite element analysis/method [do not accept or prompt on “finite volume method”]
triangle [accept answers involving triangular finite elements]
stiffness matrix &lt;Other Science&gt;
A spectrum of these values can be defined based on initial separations with different orientations. For 10 points each:
Given two trajectories in phase space with an infinitesimal initial separation dx, the linearized divergence rate is given by the norm of “dx times eto the lambda-t,” where lambda is this value.
Positive Lyapunov exponents signal the extreme sensitivity to initial conditions characteristic of these deterministic but unpredictable dynamical systems.
For a given pair of local unitary operators U and V, examples of these functions that are “out of time order” are used to describe scrambling and chaos in quantum systems, and are closely related to the squared commutator of U(t) [“U of T”] and V(0) [“V of zero”].
Lyapunov exponent(s)
chaotic dynamical systems or chaos
out of time order correlators or correlation functions [prompt on OTOC] &lt;Physics&gt;
The “solid oxide” variant of these devices has three ceramic layers, giving it a degree of geometrical flexibility in design at the cost of long startup times due to high starting temperature. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices that generate electricity by reacting hydrogen with oxygen or an oxidizer. They can supply energy over a much longer period of time than batteries, because they are continuously supplied with reactants from an external source.source.
Fuel cells experience an “activation loss” as the current density increases, due to the concomitant increase in this measure of deviation between a half-reaction’s thermodynamically predicted and actual potentials.
Fuel cells can also experience mass transport loss when their gas diffusion layers are flooded with excess liquid water, which can be removed using these devices that apply electric fields on electrical double layers to generate pressure.
fuel cells
overpotential
electro·osmotic pumps [or EO pumps] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
These rules can be generalized with the addition of variables for the number of missing vertices and the number of caps. For 10 points each:
Name this modification of Wade’s rules, which give the number of skeletal electron pairs that are necessary for a closed macro-polyhedral system to be stable.
The Jemmis mno rules correctly explain that the compound with 20 atoms of this element and 18 atoms of hydrogen is neutral, despite Wade’s rules giving it a charge of +2 because it fails to account for vertex sharing.
According to Wade’s rules, if a closo cluster contains n vertices, where n is the number of boron atoms, how many skeletal electron pairs are required for the cluster to be stable? Give your answer in terms of n.
Jemmis mno rules [accept either underlined portion]
boron
n+1 &lt;Chemistry&gt;
The Betti numbers of a space are given by the ranks of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic objects that are constructed by taking abstract linear combinations of edges, called “chains,” and then quotienting out the “cycles” from those chains by the “boundaries.”
You can produce a nicer set of “reduced” homology groups by sticking this group in near the end of the chain complex. The circle group is often written as R quotiented by this group, which is, up to isomorphism, the unique infinite cyclic group.
Although singular homology is more general, it’s much more practical to actually calculate the groups using the homology named for these shapes. This is the n-dimensional generalization of the triangle and tetrahedron.
homology groups [do not accept or prompt on answers including the words “homotopy” or “cohomology”]
the integers [or Z]
simplicial homology [or simplex; or simplices; or simplicial complex] &lt;Other Science&gt;
This phenomenon is important only in atoms or ions that have shells which are one electron short of being half-filled. For 10 points each:
Identify this phenomenon named for an American physicist, which can be derived by applying second-order perturbation theory to the sum of the Hamiltonian of an electron in a magnetic field and an electron spin Hamiltonian. It is negligible in most materials, but contributes significantly to the properties of samarium and europium.
The contribution of Van Vleck paramagnetism to the susceptibility is independent of this variable. Materials transition from ferromagnetic to paramagnetic at a value of this property known as the Curie point.
The Van Vleck susceptibility is proportional to the square of one of these quantities, specifically the magnetic moment operator sandwiched between the ground state and an excited state. In general, this two-word phrase refers to an operator sandwiched between a bra and a ket.
Van Vleck paramagnetism [prompt on partial answer]
temperature
matrix elements &lt;Physics&gt;
The <em>Rf</em> or <em>Fr</em> “restorers" from one of these two organelles restore fertility to plants that are sterile because of deleterious mutations in the genome of the other. For 10 points each:
Identify these two different organelles that contain the majority of the DNA in non-plant eukaryotes.
In recent years, evolutionary biologists have modified this model of hybrid incompatibility to account for the lack of co-occurrence between nuclear and mitochondrial genes, rather than just between nuclear genes.
Mossman et al. examined how the diet of Drosophila engineered to express a combination of 72 nuclear and mitochondrial genotypes interacted with this genetic phenomenon, in which nuclear genes “mask” mitochondrial genes, or vice versa.
mitochondria and nucleus [or mitochondrion and nucleus; accept in either order]
Bateson–Dobzhansky–Muller Model
epistasis [or epistatic effects] &lt;Biology&gt;
Among other goals, the PANDA experiment intends to study these composite particles, which are unique in the Standard Model in that they can have a total angular momentum of 2 or 3 in their ground state. For 10 points each:
Name these hypothetical particles that are made up of strong-force-carrying particles without any valence quarks.
Glueballs are predicted by this theory of the strong force, which uses the concepts of asymptotic freedom and color confinement.
This man and Giovanni Jona-Lasinio introduced a model of nucleons and mesons that is seen as a low-energy approximation of QCD at the chiral limit. 47 years later, Jona-Lasinio presented this man’s Nobel lecture.
glueballs
quantum chromodynamics [or QCD]
Yoichiro Nambu [accept Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model] &lt;Physics&gt;
The variance of this quantity is the Fisher information. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which equals the partial derivative of the log-likelihood with respect to a given parameter.
The maximum likelihood estimator for a parameter is asymptotically efficient, meaning it achieves the lower bound on variance set by this rule. It states that the variance of any unbiased estimator of a parameter is at least as high as the inverse of the Fisher information for that parameter.
Maximum likelihood estimation is analogous to the use of this man’s namesake “multipliers” in optimization problems. With Euler, this Frenchman co-names a PDE originally used to find the stationary point in the tautochrone problem.
score function
Cramér-Rao bound or inequality
Joseph-Louis Lagrange [accept Lagrange multipliers or Euler-Lagrange equation] &lt;Other Science&gt;
In his 1952 paper “The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis,” this man identified patterns that emerge only if there is a long-range inhibitor that diffuses faster than a short-range activator that has positive feedback. For 10 points each:
Identify this polymath who names repeated patterns with finite wavelength, such as zebra stripes and lizard scales. He first formulated reaction-diffusion networks during his late in life stint as a theoretical biologist.
Turing proposed that a small perturbation on a spherical system could lead to predictable chemical patterning every time, such as during this part of embryonic development, when the spherical symmetry of the blastula is broken due to the formation of a primitive streak.
The exact definition of positive feedback loops in biochemical systems is usually attributed to this Israeli biologist, who more or less invented systems biology with his observation of network motifs in the transcriptome of E. coli, which he included in his classic textbook on the subject.
Alan (Mathison) Turing
gastrulation [or word forms]
Uri Alon &lt;Biology&gt;
The fact that these structures do not disappear despite differential rotation rates is referred to as the “winding problem,” which is resolved by density wave theory. For 10 points each:
Name these structures, two of which emerge from the ends of a central “bar” in structures like NGC 1300 [“N G C thirteen hundred”].
Density wave theory makes a distinction between the orbital speeds of individual stars and this angular speed at which the density wave, and thus the spiral arm, propagates.
Density waves may grow out of initial perturbations which prevent the galactic disc from having this property. A system has this property if all quantities do not depend on the angular coordinate in cylindrical coordinates.
spiral arms [of galaxies]
pattern speed
axisymmetric [or word forms like axisymmetry; prompt on “(cylindrical) symmetry” or “rotational symmetry”] &lt;Other&gt;
These compounds are supported on a Wang resin as groups protected by Boc or Fmoc are added to them. For 10 points each:
Name these biological compounds that can be synthesized in the laboratory via a “solid phase” method pioneered by Robert Merrifield.
Merrifield’s solid-phase peptide synthesis was a precursor to this field of chemistry, which uses techniques like the teabag method and the split and mix synthesis to quickly generate extremely large libraries of peptides or other molecules.
The multipin method for combinatorial synthesis makes a different compound in each of this many wells on a standard-sized microtiter plate. The standard microtiter plate one size larger than the one with this many wells has 384 wells.
peptides [or proteins]
combinatorial chemistry
96 &lt;Chemistry&gt;
While Maxwell's equations are fun individually, they can be combined to yield even cooler results. For 10 points each:
Taking the divergence of both sides of Ampere's law, then substituting Gauss's law, yields one of these general equations that describe the transport of some quantity that is not created or destroyed. They equate the time derivative of a “density” to the divergence of a “flux.”
In free space, Maxwell's equations can be reduced to wave equations for the electric and magnetic fields by using an identity from vector calculus regarding this specific combination of operations.
Both Gauss's law of magnetism and Faraday's law can be represented by stating that the covariant derivative of this quantity equals zero. This antisymmetric pseudotensor is symbolized G, and its non-vanishing zeroth components are the components of the magnetic field.
continuity equations or conservation laws [accept hyperbolic equations or conservation laws; prompt on wave equations]
curl of the curl [accept del cross del cross; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
dual electromagnetic field strength tensor [prompt on “dual tensor”; do not accept or prompt on “field tensor” or “electromagnetic field tensor” or “Faraday tensor” or “Maxwell tensor” or “Maxwell bivector”] &lt;Physics&gt;
This condition, which commonly arises as a complication of a fracture, has symptoms identified by the mnemonic “the five Ps.” For 10 points each:
Name this condition in which intense pressure builds up in one section of the body, such as an arm or leg, constricting the ability of blood to adequately supply the tissues with oxygen and nutrients.
Aside from amputation, the main surgical treatment for compartment syndrome is to cut this type of connective tissue that encloses muscles or other organs.
Untreated compartment syndrome may lead to this form of unprogrammed cell death. This type of tissue death turns the skin from red to purple to black in an extremely gross “fasciitis” [fu-“SHY”-diss] following infection by “flesh-eating bacteria.”
compartment syndrome
fascia [FASH-uh]
necrosis [accept word forms, such as necrotic] &lt;Biology&gt;
This kind of stochastic process creates exchangeable partitions of the set of integers at each step, with specified probabilities.
Name this kind of process useful in Bayesian nonparametric modeling, which analogizes those partitions to customers choosing tables to sit at in a namesake location.
The Chinese remainder theorem allows one to solve a system of these relations, assuming that each of the involved moduli are pairwise coprime. These relations are denoted by three horizontal lines.
This Chinese-American mathematician proved a conjecture that a compact Kähler manifold whose first Chern class has a definite sign will have a Kähler-Einstein metric of the same Chern class. 6-dimensional examples of such manifolds with vanishing first Chern class are partly named for this man.
Chinese restaurant process
linear modular congruences
Shing-Tung Yau [accept Calabi-Yau manifold] &lt;Other Science&gt;
Superclusters are typically found in these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these large structures that are often linear, but may also be planar in form, as with the CfA2 Great Wall.
Galactic filaments can be found in survey data using a friends-of-friends algorithm or an algorithm to generate one of these structures. For a connected, undirected graph, this is the set of edges that connects all vertices with no cycles and with the smallest total edge weight.
It’s not the Millenium project, but this undertaking is currently using up to 30 billion particles to simulate the large-scale evolution of the universe. Its code, Arepo, utilizes a moving, unstructured mesh based on Voronoi tessellation.
galactic filaments [accept galactic sheets; prompt on supercluster complexes]
minimal spanning tree [or MST]
Illustris project &lt;Other Science&gt;
Like AES and SIMS, this technique analyzes surfaces to a depth of about 10 nm. For 10 points each:
Name this method of analyzing the elemental composition of surfaces by irradiating with high-energy photons and then measuring the number and energy of ejected electrons. Kai Siegbahn earned a share of the 1981 Nobel in Physics for his work on this technique, which is sometimes called XPS.
The broadness of peaks in XPS is often measured using this standard, which is similar to the half-power point used in signal processing. It is the distance between points at 50 percent of the peak height.
Elements lighter than this one are nearly impossible to detect with XPS because they do not have core electrons.
x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy [accept ESCA or electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis]
full width at half maximum [or FWHM]
lithium &lt;Physics&gt;
In the paper introducing this approach, Ronald Breslow reported the photochemical activation of a benzophenone triplet and subsequent oxidation of a methylene group. For 10 points each:
Identify this general synthetic approach in which functional groups are introduced at unreactive positions beyond the carbon gamma to an existing group.
Tethers are added to bestow additional stereo- or regioselectivity in remote functionalizations of these hollow carbon molecules, the best known of which contains 60 atoms and is shaped like a soccer ball.
Two of the most common reactions for performing remote functionalization, the Barton nitrite ester and the Hofmann-Löffler reactions, begin with this process whose standard enthalpy change defines the bond dissociation energy.
remote functionalization
fullerenes [or buckminsterfullerenes; or buckyballs]
homolytic cleavage [or homolysis] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
In a free-electron laser, this force causes electrons to bunch up in the troughs of a standing wave of synchrotron radiation. For 10 points each:
Name this force experienced by charged particles in a field that is inhomogeneous in space and oscillating in time. It can be derived by separating the motion of a particle into slow and fast scales, and it is the primary cause of plasma density oscillations.
The cutoff energy for generation of these phenomena by intense pulsed laser beams is given by “the ionization potential plus 3.17-times the ponderomotive energy.” These phenomena have energies that are integer multiples of the generating beam’s energy.
High harmonic generation is used to produce the ultrashort pulses of light needed in this field of physics, which studies electron dynamics on timescales of “10 to the negative 18th” seconds.
ponderomotive force
high harmonics
attophysics [accept attoscience; do not accept or prompt on “femtochemistry”] &lt;Physics&gt;
Identify some diverse classes of immune system proteins, for 10 points each.
A highly polymorphic locus on chromosome 6 encodes thousands of unique allelic variants of these protein complexes, which bind to antigens and display them on the surfaces of cells to be recognized.
The polymorphism of the MHC locus is rivaled by that of the one on chromosome 19 encoding these transmembrane glycoproteins, which interact with class I MHC molecules to regulate the killing power of NK cells.
The improper joining of segments in V(D)J recombination bestows additional “junctional" diversity on antibodies and these membrane proteins, whose antigen binding sites can be made up of αβ [“alpha-beta”] or γδ [“gamma-delta”] chains.
MHC [or major histocompatibility complex; or HLA; or human leukocyte antigens]
KIR [or Killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors]
T-cell receptors [or TCRs] &lt;Biology&gt;
Every complex semisimple Lie [lee] algebra has a real form corresponding to a simply connected Lie group with this property. For 10 points each:
Name this property shared by all matrix Lie groups. Closed and bounded subsets of Rn have this property.
Connected compact Lie groups with the same Lie algebra can be put on a lattice, with their universal cover on one end and a simple group on the other. The fundamental group of the simple group is isomorphic to what subgroup of the universal cover? The quotient of a group by this subgroup is isomorphic to its group of inner automorphisms.
The universal cover of S-L-2-R is a classic example of a finite-dimensional Lie group that cannot be described as a matrix group. In other words, it does not admit one of these homomorphisms, which send a group to the general linear group.
compactness
center
group representations &lt;Other Science&gt;
The Hartree-Fock equation is essentially a self-consistent application of this method, where the free parameters are the various weights of basis functions. For 10 points each:
Name this ubiquitous approach in computational chemistry in which you estimate molecular orbitals by simply choosing parameter values that minimize the energy. These methods are often contrasted with perturbative methods.
A very simple version of the variational method minimizes the energy in this system with respect to the effective nuclear charge, thus yielding an estimate for Z of around 27/16. Because its subatomic particles form a three-body problem, a closed-form solution to the Schrodinger equation has not been found for this atom
Electronic correlation can be determined both using variational methods like CI as well as nonvariational approaches, like this one in which the exponential of a namesake operator provides an ansatz to the reference wavefunction to obtain excitations.
variational methods [or word forms]
helium atom
coupled cluster [or CC]
The tetrathia derivative of the prototypical compound of this type forms unusual “segregated stacks” in charge transfer complexes, resulting in exceptionally high conductivity. For 10 points each
Name this unstable class of compounds consisting of two rings cross-conjugated by a double bond
This prototypical example of a sandwich compound was discovered while attempting to synthesize a fulvalene.
Whether the lowest excited state of an planar structure such as a fulvalene may be aromatic can be determined by Baird’s rule, which is effectively a reversed Hückel’s rule as only this many pi electrons, expressed as a function of n, is needed to provide aromaticity to an excited state.
fulvalenes [do not accept or prompt on “fulvenes”]
ferrocene
4n
Inhibition of the Xc- [“X C minus”] cystine-glutamate antiporter by erastin leads to this process. For 10 points each:
Name this type of cell death in which lipid peroxides accumulate when glutathione peroxidase 4 is inhibited. In 2017, Stuart Schreiber’s lab found that a high-mesenchymal, chemotherapy-resistant cancer cell state was linked with susceptibility to this process.
Glutathione peroxidases are one of the only proteins in the human body that contain this nonmetal.
By performing an erastin resistance screen, Stockwell et al. identified a portion of this specific subunit of a protein as being crucial to ferroptosis. This water insoluble protein subunit directly rotates when protons pass through it.
ferroptosis
selenium [or Se]
the F0 subunit of ATP synthase [prompt on ATP synthase] &lt;Biology&gt;
In this method, delta-epsilon is a direct measure of the difference between two molar extinction coefficients and is multiplied by 3298 to get a parameter theta measured in degrees. For 10 points each:
Give this analytical technique often applied to study the conformations of biomolecules in solution. It generates a plot of optical polarization dispersion as a function of wavelength.
This effect describes the change in optical rotation as the wavelength of light is varied from the location of absorption maximum. A material is said to have a positive ‘this effect’ if rotation is net positive at low energy and net negative at high energy.
When CD is applied to proteins, these particular structures show a negative Cotton effect with a broad minimum around 220 nanometers and a maximum at 190 nm. They are at the top left of a Ramachandran plot and play a key role in protein aggregation disorders like Alzheimer’s disease.
circular dichroism spectroscopy [or CD]
Cotton effect [do NOT accept “Cotton–Mouton effect”]
beta-sheets &lt;Chemistry&gt;
One algorithm for performing this task extends DBSCAN to find subspaces by recursively doing it to higher dimensional candidate subspaces. For 10 points each:
Name this task that can be done by DBSCAN on high-dimensional data by specifying the epsilon distance.
DBSCAN is resistant to this property of data which is variation that is not accounted for by the known dimensions and can represent random error. In signal processing, the “white” form of this masks the true signal.
This clustering algorithm finds a discrete, pre-specified number of clusters by iteratively assigning points to the nearest centroid, collapsing the Voronoi cell, and recalculating the centroids until they don’t move.
clustering
noise
Lloyd’s algorithm [or k-means clustering] &lt;Other Science&gt;
The building of the supertall skyscraper One57 on Manhattan’s Billionaires’ Row led Ioannis Oikonomou to wonder “What if our buildings were long instead of tall?” Answer the following about his ideas, for 10 points each.
Oikonomou proposed a U-shaped “Big Bend,” which would be over 4,000 feet long and use a horizontal elevator made by a German conglomerate partially named for this family. A member of this family who was adopted by Gábor Bornemisza founded a namesake museum in Madrid; the name of the conglomerate is also acceptable.
Oikonomou’s “Big Bend” also takes cues from Uruguayan architect Rafael Viñoly’s supertall, thin residential skyscraper situated at number 432 on this midtown Manhattan avenue.
Another idea for using skyscrapers more efficiently was developed by Haseef Rafiei, whose Pod Vending Machine suggests using this technology to create skyscrapers reminiscent of Tetris and Connect Four. This method, often used to produce prototype parts, involves building up solid objects in layers.
Thyssen [accept thyssenkrupp or Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum; do not accept or prompt on just “Krupp”]
Park Avenue [do not accept or prompt on “Fourth Avenue”]
3D printing [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
This lattice structure is taken by metallic iron at STP. For 10 points each:
Name this cubic unit cell structure which has a coordination of 8 and a total of 2 atoms per unit cell.
This ionic crystal structure, where atoms have (4,4) [read as “4-comma-4”] coordination, is most likely when the radius ratio of the ionic compound is close to or less than 0.4. The two atoms take on interpenetrating face-centered cubic lattices.
Zinc sulfide can also be found in this rarer non-centrosymmetric binary crystal structure at high temperatures. Just as in the sphalerite structure, zinc cations occupy half of all available tetrahedral holes—but now in the context of a sulfide hexagonal close-packed lattice.
body-centered cubic [or bcc]
sphalerite [or zinc-blende, prompt on “zinc sulfide”]
wurtzite &lt;Chemistry&gt;
The S-matrix is named for this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process, in which a particle is deflected due to its interaction with another particle.
This physicist’s namesake variables, usually written s, t, and u, provide a convenient Lorentz-invariant approach to the scattering of two particles to two particles.
Mandelstam argued that linear trajectories in this theory correspond to stable particles. It treats the scattering amplitude as an analytic function of complex angular momentum, whose poles correspond to this theory’s namesake trajectories.
scattering [accept collision]
Stanley Mandelstam
Regge theory [accept Regge poles or trajectories] &lt;Physics&gt;
The building of the supertall skyscraper One57 on Manhattan’s Billionaires’ Row led Ioannis Oikonomou to wonder “What if our buildings were long instead of tall?” Answer the following about his ideas, for 10 points each.
Oikonomou proposed a U-shaped “Big Bend,” which would be over 4,000 feet long and use a horizontal elevator made by a German conglomerate partially named for this family. A member of this family who was adopted by Gábor Bornemisza founded a namesake museum in Madrid; the name of the conglomerate is also acceptable.
Oikonomou’s “Big Bend” also takes cues from Uruguayan architect Rafael Viñoly’s supertall, thin residential skyscraper situated at number 432 on this midtown Manhattan avenue.
Another idea for using skyscrapers more efficiently was developed by Haseef Rafiei, whose Pod Vending Machine suggests using this technology to create skyscrapers reminiscent of Tetris and Connect Four. This method, often used to produce prototype parts, involves building up solid objects in layers.
Thyssen [accept thyssenkrupp or Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum; do not accept or prompt on just “Krupp”]
Park Avenue [do not accept or prompt on “Fourth Avenue”]
3D printing [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
This lattice structure is taken by metallic iron at STP. For 10 points each:
Name this cubic unit cell structure which has a coordination of 8 and a total of 2 atoms per unit cell.
This ionic crystal structure, where atoms have (4,4) [read as “4-comma-4”] coordination, is most likely when the radius ratio of the ionic compound is close to or less than 0.4. The two atoms take on interpenetrating face-centered cubic lattices.
Zinc sulfide can also be found in this rarer non-centrosymmetric binary crystal structure at high temperatures. Just as in the sphalerite structure, zinc cations occupy half of all available tetrahedral holes—but now in the context of a sulfide hexagonal close-packed lattice.
body-centered cubic [or bcc]
sphalerite [or zinc-blende, prompt on “zinc sulfide”]
wurtzite &lt;Chemistry&gt;
The S-matrix is named for this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process, in which a particle is deflected due to its interaction with another particle.
This physicist’s namesake variables, usually written s, t, and u, provide a convenient Lorentz-invariant approach to the scattering of two particles to two particles.
Mandelstam argued that linear trajectories in this theory correspond to stable particles. It treats the scattering amplitude as an analytic function of complex angular momentum, whose poles correspond to this theory’s namesake trajectories.
scattering [accept collision]
Stanley Mandelstam
Regge theory [accept Regge poles or trajectories] &lt;Physics&gt;
A hypothetical first generation of high-mass examples of these objects with zero metallicity are assigned to Population III. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, whose low-metallicity Population II members are preferentially found in globular clusters.
Populations I and II were discovered by this German–American astronomer. He and Fritz Zwicky coined the term “supernova,” and first posited the existence of neutron stars.
This man divided stars into young and old populations in early drafts of the first of his three foundational papers on the dynamics of the ISM, which coined the terms HI [“H one”] and HII [“H two”] regions. In 1946 he first articulated the benefits of a large space telescope; he then spent decades promoting the idea, culminating in the Hubble Space Telescope.
stars
(Wilhelm Heinrich) Walter Baade
Lyman (Strong) Spitzer Jr. &lt;Other Science&gt;
This process related to density by raising DBH to the constant <em>b</em> in Reineke’s model. For 10 points each:
Name this process described by Yoda’s power law, which relates biomass to density of surviving plants. The line representing the self-thinning form of this process takes on a value of approximately –3/2 [negative three-halves].
In non-uniform rainforest stands, a special case of the pest pressure hypothesis named for this ecologist and Connell states that seedling mortality is greatest close to parent trees or in high density stands because of pathogen prevalence.
Anemochory is a form of seed dispersal that relies on this vector to disperse seedlings far from parents. Ruderal species like dandelions rely on this method of dispersal, which is also used by plants with winged seeds like maples.
density-dependent mortality [accept negative density dependence]
Daniel Janzen [accept the Janzen–Connell hypothesis]
wind &lt;Biology&gt;
The Hubble constant is about 70 kilometers per second per this unit. For 10 points each:
Name this prefixed unit, which equals about 3.26 million light-years.
This cosmological parameter is the amplitude of the linear matter power spectrum on scales of 8 megaparsecs over the Hubble parameter.
The choice of 8 megaparsecs over the Hubble parameter as the length scale for defining σ8 is meant to reflect the typical size of these gravitationally bound objects. They are affected by cooling flows.
megaparsecs
σ8 [“sigma eight”] [prompt on sigma]
galaxy clusters [prompt on clusters; do not accept or prompt on galaxy superclusters or galaxies] &lt;Other Science&gt;
This coupling reaction accomplishes the difficult task of forming carbon-nitrogen bonds. For 10 points each:
Name this palladium-catalyzed coupling reaction developed in the 1990s and early 2000s that allows for the facile synthesis of aromatic amines from aromatic halides, using palladium complexed to sterically hindered phosphine ligands.
The Buchwald–Hartwig amination is difficult to catalyze because this organometallic transformation, which is the last step in its reaction mechanism, is disfavored between carbon and nitrogen ligands. Sterically hindered phosphine ligands are effective at speeding up this step, where metal coordination decreases by two.
This other cross-coupling reaction forms (alpha,beta) or (beta,gamma)-unsaturated aromatic alcohols from reaction of aromatic aldehydes and vinyl or allyl halides. It is catalyzed by chromium(II) and nickel(II) ions, and shows high specificity for the aldehyde functional group in its aromatic reactant.
Buchwald–Hartwig amination
reductive elimination
Nozaki–Hiyama–Kishi reaction [or NHK coupling] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
These things provide the alternate name of the Weizsäcker–Williams [VYTE-sacker-Williams] method, which is used to calculate cross-sections of electromagnetic interactions of relativistic particles. For 10 points each:
Name these things, whose Thompson or Compton scattering gives a simple approximation of synchrotron and bremsstrahlung radiation.
The principle of virtual work is extended to non-static systems by this principle, which states that the total virtual work done by real and inertial forces vanishes on any reversible virtual displacement. It was first written in a variational form by Lagrange.
A diverging lens will produce a virtual image if the object is placed at this distance from the lens. A description is fine
virtual quanta [accept virtual photons or the Weizsäcker–Williams method of virtual quanta]
d’Alembert’s principle [accept Lagrange–d’Alembert principle]
any distance [accept anywhere or answers indicating the lens always produces a virtual image] &lt;Physics&gt;
A hypothetical first generation of high-mass examples of these objects with zero metallicity are assigned to Population III. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, whose low-metallicity Population II members are preferentially found in globular clusters.
Populations I and II were discovered by this German–American astronomer. He and Fritz Zwicky coined the term “supernova,” and first posited the existence of neutron stars.
This man divided stars into young and old populations in early drafts of the first of his three foundational papers on the dynamics of the ISM, which coined the terms HI [“H one”] and HII [“H two”] regions. In 1946 he first articulated the benefits of a large space telescope; he then spent decades promoting the idea, culminating in the Hubble Space Telescope.
stars
(Wilhelm Heinrich) Walter Baade
Lyman (Strong) Spitzer Jr. &lt;Other Science&gt;
This process related to density by raising DBH to the constant <em>b</em> in Reineke’s model. For 10 points each:
Name this process described by Yoda’s power law, which relates biomass to density of surviving plants. The line representing the self-thinning form of this process takes on a value of approximately –3/2 [negative three-halves].
In non-uniform rainforest stands, a special case of the pest pressure hypothesis named for this ecologist and Connell states that seedling mortality is greatest close to parent trees or in high density stands because of pathogen prevalence.
Anemochory is a form of seed dispersal that relies on this vector to disperse seedlings far from parents. Ruderal species like dandelions rely on this method of dispersal, which is also used by plants with winged seeds like maples.
density-dependent mortality [accept negative density dependence]
Daniel Janzen [accept the Janzen–Connell hypothesis]
wind &lt;Biology&gt;
The Hubble constant is about 70 kilometers per second per this unit. For 10 points each:
Name this prefixed unit, which equals about 3.26 million light-years.
This cosmological parameter is the amplitude of the linear matter power spectrum on scales of 8 megaparsecs over the Hubble parameter.
The choice of 8 megaparsecs over the Hubble parameter as the length scale for defining σ8 is meant to reflect the typical size of these gravitationally bound objects. They are affected by cooling flows.
megaparsecs
σ8 [“sigma eight”] [prompt on sigma]
galaxy clusters [prompt on clusters; do not accept or prompt on galaxy superclusters or galaxies] &lt;Other Science&gt;
This coupling reaction accomplishes the difficult task of forming carbon-nitrogen bonds. For 10 points each:
Name this palladium-catalyzed coupling reaction developed in the 1990s and early 2000s that allows for the facile synthesis of aromatic amines from aromatic halides, using palladium complexed to sterically hindered phosphine ligands.
The Buchwald–Hartwig amination is difficult to catalyze because this organometallic transformation, which is the last step in its reaction mechanism, is disfavored between carbon and nitrogen ligands. Sterically hindered phosphine ligands are effective at speeding up this step, where metal coordination decreases by two.
This other cross-coupling reaction forms (alpha,beta) or (beta,gamma)-unsaturated aromatic alcohols from reaction of aromatic aldehydes and vinyl or allyl halides. It is catalyzed by chromium(II) and nickel(II) ions, and shows high specificity for the aldehyde functional group in its aromatic reactant.
Buchwald–Hartwig amination
reductive elimination
Nozaki–Hiyama–Kishi reaction [or NHK coupling] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
These things provide the alternate name of the Weizsäcker–Williams [VYTE-sacker-Williams] method, which is used to calculate cross-sections of electromagnetic interactions of relativistic particles. For 10 points each:
Name these things, whose Thompson or Compton scattering gives a simple approximation of synchrotron and bremsstrahlung radiation.
The principle of virtual work is extended to non-static systems by this principle, which states that the total virtual work done by real and inertial forces vanishes on any reversible virtual displacement. It was first written in a variational form by Lagrange.
A diverging lens will produce a virtual image if the object is placed at this distance from the lens. A description is fine
virtual quanta [accept virtual photons or the Weizsäcker–Williams method of virtual quanta]
d’Alembert’s principle [accept Lagrange–d’Alembert principle]
any distance [accept anywhere or answers indicating the lens always produces a virtual image] &lt;Physics&gt;
Inhibition of the Xc- [“X C minus”] cystine-glutamate antiporter by erastin leads to this process. For 10 points each:
Name this type of cell death in which lipid peroxides accumulate when glutathione peroxidase 4 is inhibited. In 2017, Stuart Schreiber’s lab found that a high-mesenchymal, chemotherapy-resistant cancer cell state was linked with susceptibility to this process.
Glutathione peroxidases are one of the only proteins in the human body that contain this nonmetal.
By performing an erastin resistance screen, Stockwell et al. identified a portion of this specific subunit of a protein as being crucial to ferroptosis. This water insoluble protein subunit directly rotates when protons pass through it.
ferroptosis
selenium [or Se]
the F0 subunit of ATP synthase [prompt on ATP synthase] &lt;Biology&gt;
In the tagmentation step of Nextera library prep for next-generation sequencing, one of these enzymes fragments DNA and attaches sequencing adapters. For 10 points each:
Name these enzymes, the Tn5 example of which is used to assess chromatin accessibility in ATAC-seq [“attack”-“seek”]. Resolvases are recombinases that can suppress these enzymes.
The Tn3 genetic element in prokaryotes encodes a transposase, a resolvase, and one of these enzymes. These enzymes, which include NDM-1 and TEM, can be inhibited by clavulanic acid or sulbactam.
In whole genome sequencing, a polymerase from one of these viruses, known as Phi29, is used to amplify the input DNA because of its high processivity. Other examples of these viruses are named T4 and lambda.
transposase
beta-lactamase
bacteriophages &lt;Biology&gt;
Answer the following about relativistic thermodynamics, for 10 points each:
The ultra-relativistic equation of state, which applies to a photon gas, sets this quantity equal to one-third the energy density. Light sails are designed to push spaceships using this force per unit area.
The temperature measured by observers at different points is not constant in a body at thermal equilibrium; instead, the constant value is the measured temperature times the square root of the zero zero component of this tensor. For a weak gravitational field, its zero zero component is one plus twice the gravitational potential over c squared.
John Stewart and this physicist produced an influential model of causal, near-equilibrium thermodynamics in the context of general relativity. On his own, he proved the first no-hair theorem, for the case of the Schwarzschild metric.
pressure [accept radiation pressure]
metric tensor
Werner Israel &lt;Physics&gt;
In this method, delta-epsilon is a direct measure of the difference between two molar extinction coefficients and is multiplied by 3298 to get a parameter theta measured in degrees. For 10 points each:
Give this analytical technique often applied to study the conformations of biomolecules in solution. It generates a plot of optical polarization dispersion as a function of wavelength.
This effect describes the change in optical rotation as the wavelength of light is varied from the location of absorption maximum. A material is said to have a positive ‘this effect’ if rotation is net positive at low energy and net negative at high energy.
When CD is applied to proteins, these particular structures show a negative Cotton effect with a broad minimum around 220 nanometers and a maximum at 190 nm. They are at the top left of a Ramachandran plot and play a key role in protein aggregation disorders like Alzheimer’s disease.
circular dichroism spectroscopy [or CD]
Cotton effect [do NOT accept “Cotton–Mouton effect”]
beta-sheets &lt;Chemistry&gt;
One algorithm for performing this task extends DBSCAN to find subspaces by recursively doing it to higher dimensional candidate subspaces. For 10 points each:
Name this task that can be done by DBSCAN on high-dimensional data by specifying the epsilon distance.
DBSCAN is resistant to this property of data which is variation that is not accounted for by the known dimensions and can represent random error. In signal processing, the “white” form of this masks the true signal.
This clustering algorithm finds a discrete, pre-specified number of clusters by iteratively assigning points to the nearest centroid, collapsing the Voronoi cell, and recalculating the centroids until they don’t move.
clustering
noise
Lloyd’s algorithm [or k-means clustering] &lt;Other Science&gt;
In the tagmentation step of Nextera library prep for next-generation sequencing, one of these enzymes fragments DNA and attaches sequencing adapters. For 10 points each:
Name these enzymes, the Tn5 example of which is used to assess chromatin accessibility in ATAC-seq [“attack”-“seek”]. Resolvases are recombinases that can suppress these enzymes.
The Tn3 genetic element in prokaryotes encodes a transposase, a resolvase, and one of these enzymes. These enzymes, which include NDM-1 and TEM, can be inhibited by clavulanic acid or sulbactam.
In whole genome sequencing, a polymerase from one of these viruses, known as Phi29, is used to amplify the input DNA because of its high processivity. Other examples of these viruses are named T4 and lambda.
transposase
beta-lactamase
bacteriophages &lt;Biology&gt;
A canonical example of this reaction involves the addition of base to a substituted decalin-ol to form a ten-membered ring containing a cis or trans double-bond. For 10 points each:
Name this type of heterolytic elimination reaction where an electrofuge at the beginning of a chain of five atoms pushes electrons into the nucleofuge at the end of the chain, forming three total products and a double bond between atoms three and four of the chain.
Molecular ions in mass spectrometry undergo fragmentation reactions, sometimes with rearrangement. In this reaction, a ketyl radical undergoes beta-cleavage, reacting with a gamma-hydrogen atom to fragment into an enol radical and an alkene.
In mass spectrometry, aliphatic amine radical cations undergo alpha-cleavage, fragmenting into an aliphatic radical and this functional group containing a carbon double-bonded to a nitrogen. This functional group is formed in the first step of a reductive amination.
Grob fragmentation
McLafferty rearrangement
imines [do not accept or prompt on “amine”] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
These organisms are turned into zombies by the neurological weapon DCPV which causes them to flail around to protect cocoons attached to their bellies. For 10 points each:
Name these beetles parasitized by the wasp Dinocampus coccinellae, which lays eggs in their body.
Ladybugs eat these sap-sucking bugs that are common crop pests. These small bugs are “farmed” by ants for their nectar.
When attacked by ants farming aphids, ladybugs engage in this behavior using the tibiofemoral articulations to excrete alkaloid toxins. This behavior is also done by the European grass snake when playing dead.
ladybugs [or lady beetles]
aphids
autohemorrhaging [or reflex bleeding; prompt on equivalents of making yourself bleed; prompt on bleeding] &lt;Biology&gt;
Answer the following about various forms of momentum, for 10 points each:
Generalized momenta and generalized position coordinates are used in this approach to mechanics, which is equivalent to Newtonian and Lagrangian mechanics. Its namesake function is the sum of the kinetic energy and potential energy.
Crystal momentum equals h-bar times this quantity. Reciprocal space is sometimes named for this quantity.
Using SI units, a charged particle moving in an electromagnetic field has a canonical momentum equal to the momentum plus this expression. The total time derivative of this expression yields the Lorentz force.
Hamiltonian mechanics
wave vector [accept k-space]
charge times vector potential [accept qA or eA] &lt;Physics&gt;
This reaction was published by Carolyn Bertozzi’s group in the year 2000 and is useful in bioorthogonal chemistry. For 10 points each:
Name this reaction in which an electrophile trap, usually a methyl or benzyl ester, reacts with an alkyl azide in the presence of triphenylphosphine to form an amide.
Bertozzi also developed a “copper-free” version of this other reaction which uses cyclooctyne derivatives. This reaction’s concerted mechanism is similar to the first step of the Criegee mechanism for ozonolysis.
Both the azide–alkyne cycloaddition and the Staudinger ligation are examples of this class of biocompatible small molecule reactions, which got its name from K. Barry Sharpless.
Staudinger ligation [do NOT accept or prompt on “Staudinger reaction”, they MUST say “ligation”]
azide–alkyne cycloaddition [or AAC; accept Huisgen cycloaddition]
click chemistry &lt;Chemistry&gt;
A November 2017 paper by Subramanian, Narayan, and Corsello details the development of L1000, a reduced representation form of this technique, and its use to form a “Connectivity Map” . For 10 points each:
Name this transcriptomic technique that measures the expression levels of the roughly 20,000 different genes in the genome.
This technique, developed by Evan Macosko, performs single cell RNA seq by using microfluidics to encapsulate each cell with a functionalized microbead inside some oil, and then lyses each cells individually to captures its mRNA on a bead to create a barcoded STAMPs, or single transcriptomes attached to microparticle.
If you’d rather just measure the expression level of one gene, you can use TaqMan qPCR, which relies on Taq polymerase to cleave a fluorophore off of a gene-specific probe. This is the most common fluorophore used in TaqMan.
RNA-sequencing [prompt on gene expression profiling]
Drop-seq
FAM [or or 6-carboxyfluorescein] &lt;Biology&gt;
A function named for these <em>two</em> mathematicians gives the maximum possible average value for a function on a ball surrounding a given point. For 10 points each:
Name these two mathematicians who name a “maximal” function and inequality used in Lebesgue differentiation, as well as in the proof of Fatou’s theorem.
Independently of Hardy, Littlewood coined three “principles” that apply to functions and sets with this property. Functions must have this property to be Lebesgue integrable, while subsets of the real line without this property include the Vitali set.
Like Hardy, Littlewood worked with this self-taught Indian mathematician, who made many proofs involving continued fractions. While dying, this man identified the number 1729 as the smallest number that’s the sum of two different pairs of cubes.
G. H. Hardy [or Godfrey Harold Hardy] and John Edensor Littlewood
Lebesgue measurable
Srinivasa Ramanujan &lt;Other Science&gt;
<em>Note to moderator: please emphasize the italicized words/syllables</em>. This theorem applies to a path-connected space <em>X</em> that can be expressed as the union of path-connected spaces <em>A</em> and <em>B</em> whose intersection C is also path-connected. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem, which expresses the fundamental group of X in terms of the fundamental groups of A, B, and C.
The sievert is a unit used to measure “equivalent” or “effective” values of this quantity. “Absorbed” values of this quantity may be measured in grays.
The classification of Seyfert galaxies relies heavily on these two features, which appear at about 6563 and 4861 ångströms.
Seifert–van Kampen theorem
radiation dose [accept equivalent or effective or absorbed dose]
Balmer alpha and beta [or Hα and Hβ] &lt;Other Science&gt;
As disorder increases, the spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain exhibits a phase transition from a state satisfying the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis to one displaying this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, in which localized disorder prevents a macroscopic quantum system from reaching thermal equilibrium.
Many-body localization arises in closed systems that are isolated from one of these idealized objects. A system in the canonical ensemble is assumed to be in contact with one of these systems at constant temperature.
Many-body localization builds on a model of disorder-mediated localization by this Nobel-winning Princeton physicist, who also proposed the non-relativistic Higgs mechanism and a namesake impurity model that describes the Kondo effect.
many-body localization [accept MBL; prompt on localization or strong localization; prompt on non-thermalization; prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal, Anderson localization]
thermal reservoir [or heat bath]
Philip Warren Anderson &lt;Physics&gt;
William Happer is notorious for his climate change denialism, but he’s also done important work in physics. For 10 points each:
Happer came up with the idea of using a laser to excite atoms of this element in the mesosphere to form a “guide star” for use in adaptive optics. Wolfgang Ketterle [KEH-tur-lee] created a Bose–Einstein condensate of this element four months after the first condensate was created using rubidium, another alkali metal.
Happer has extensively studied this type of collision with a two-word name, which conserves total angular momentum but alters the hyperfine states of the atoms involved. It can be used in a namesake form of optical pumping in which these collisions with an alkali metal gas are used to produce a sample of hyperpolarized noble gas.
Happer’s work underlies the invention of the “spin exchange relaxation-free”—or SERF [“surf”] —form of these devices, which can achieve higher sensitivities than the SQUID [“squid”] form of these devices.
sodium [accept Na]
spin-exchange collisions [accept spin-exchange optical pumping]
magnetometers [accept SERF magnetometers or SQUID magnetometers] &lt;Physics&gt;
The <em>N</em>th member of this man’s namesake family kernels consists of the sum of the first <em>N</em> Dirichlet [“deer”-ih-“clay”] kernels, all over <em>N</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Hungarian mathematician who used those kernels to prove that, if a function f is integrable on the circle, then its Fourier series is uniformly Cesàro [cheh-ZAH-roh] summable to f. With Frigyes Riesz [free-jesh reess], he gave a short proof of the Riemann mapping theorem.
Fejér’s theorem can be strengthened to the kind of summation named for this mathematician, who was one of the earliest developers of group theory. He thus gives his name to commutative groups.
That extension of Fejér’s theorem uses the kernels named for this mathematician, who also showed that the periodic summation of a function and its Fourier transform are equal. A construct created by this man has a PMF of “lambda-to-the-k, e-to-the-minus-lambda, all over k-factorial.”
Lipót Fejér
Niels Henrik Abel [accept abelian groups]
Siméon Denis Poisson (That’s the PMF of the Poisson distribution.) &lt;Other Science&gt;
This type of treatment is typically spread out, or “fractionated” at up to 2 Gy per day to allow non-cancerous cells to recover. For 10 points each:
Identify this alternative to immunotherapy or chemotherapy, in which an accelerator fires sheer energy to ionize and damage the DNA of cancer cells.
Left-sided breast cancer patients are instructed to perform a “deep inspiration breath hold” to limit radiation exposure to the heart and lungs. As a result, their lungs will hold this amount of air that is equal to the total lung capacity minus the residual volume.
Metastatic cancer patients receiving both radio and immunotherapy may experience this miraculous phenomenon, in which both the directly targeted tumor and some other tumor far away shrink in response to radiation.
radiotherapy [or ionizing radiation; or radiation therapy; or RTx; or XRT]
vital capacity [or VC]
abscopal effect &lt;Biology&gt;
Each edition of Peter Atkins’s textbook <em>Physical Chemistry</em> weirdly slightly rephrases his description of this relationship as “one of the most elegant of all conclusions in chemical thermodynamics.” For 10 points each:
Name this relationship between the number of components, phases, and degrees of freedom of a solution.
For binary non-electrolyte solutions where one of the components has no vapor pressure, the UNIQUAC method can be used to compute these dimensionless parameters. For electrolyte solutions, the Pitzer equations can be used.
In the regular solution approximation, where both components are volatile and have a nonzero enthalpy of mixing, these relations set logs of activity coefficients of each of the components proportional to the square of the mole fraction of the other component.
Gibbs phase rule
activity coefficients
Margules equations &lt;Chemistry&gt;
This model allows adsorbate volume, relative to monolayer coverage volume, to grow indefinitely. For 10 points each:
Name this adsorption equation that assumes that the first adsorbed layer can act as a substrate for further absorption. It is most accurate for gases such as nitrogen adsorbing onto activated carbon.
When this parameter for desorption is large, the BET isotherm approximates the adsorbed volume as proportional to “one over one minus the reduced pressure” of the adsorbate. The van’t Hoff equation describes the relationship between log equilibrium constant, temperature, and this quantity for a process.
This model for surface-catalyzed reaction kinetics assumes that the adsorbate can react directly with gas-phase molecules, without the need for both species to be adsorbed. At high concentrations of the adsorbing gas, the rate law is zero-order in the adsorbate but first-order in the non-adsorbing gas.
BET isotherm [or Brunauer–Emmett–Teller isotherm]
change in enthalpy
Eley–Rideal mechanism &lt;Chemistry&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about changing tastes in Chinese ceramic production:
Song dynasty Rǔ and Guān wares deliberately emphasized this pattern of fractures under the piece’s glaze. The “double” form of this pattern in Gē [guh] ware was dubbed “gold thread and iron wire.”
Those pottery styles were made in earthenware and stoneware, which are contrasted with this tough, translucent type of ceramic, which requires extremely high temperatures to make. Since China was the first country to develop this kind of ceramic, it’s often just called “China.”
Starting under Míng Xuāndé [sh’wen-duh], Chinese ceramics were often decorated using this technique, in which thin wires of metal are used to enclose decorative pieces of enamel on the surface of the piece. A derivative of this French-language word was used to describe the painting style of Émile Bernard and Paul Gauguin [go-GAN].
crackle [accept word forms like crackling; accept crazing or word forms like crazed]
porcelain
cloisonné [clwah-zoh-NAY] [accept cloisonnisme] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
Name these modes of sediment transport by wind, for 10 points each:
Roughly 75% of eolian transport of sediments takes place through this leaping motion of sand grains along a parabolic trajectory in the direction of the wind.
About 25% of eolian transport of sediments occurs through this very slow movement of coarse grains at the base of the saltation layer. It shares its name with aseismic motion along faults.
A small amount of sediment transport occurs through this process, in which a saltating grain’s fall and impact against the bed splashes of order ten grains out of the bed in low hops in nearly all directions. Physicist Pierre-Gilles de Gennes [“Pierre” zheel duh zhen] used this term for a type of thermal motion.
saltation
surface creep
reptation &lt;Other Science&gt;
Many measurements of stellar magnetic fields rely on this effect. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which a spectral line is split into multiple components by an external magnetic field. Its analogue for splitting by electric fields is the Stark effect.
An alternative method for measuring stellar magnetic fields relies on this effect, in which a magnetic field rotates and alters the strength of the polarization from resonance line scattering. It is named for a German physicist who explained it using a semi-classical model of an atomic damped harmonic oscillator.
The Hanle effect rotates the polarization in the same sense as this motion, whose frequency is given by the magnetic field strength times the gyromagnetic ratio.
Zeeman effect
Hanle effect
Larmor precession [prompt on precession] &lt;Physics&gt;
Zero-inflated Poisson models are a subclass of this general modeling approach that can also be used to determine the sex of species based on continuous variables like wing-length. For 10 points each:
Name this class of models that allow for data to come from N-many independent distributions, such as zero-inflated count data.
Zero-inflated negative binomial models can be used to model this variable with a latent variable denoted z. This variable is denoted by psi in models of it based on presence-absence data that incorporate detection probability.
The Tingley method uses probability of occupancy of these places to estimate density of individuals in a population. An ideal despotic model of these things arises due to boundary disputes between neighbors and owners of these areas of land that are continuously defended for resources.
N-mixture models [do not accept “mixed models”]
probability of occupancy [do not accept anything else]
territory &lt;Biology&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> These beings were colonizing Earth 5,750 years ago when a group of rebels stopped their progress. For 10 points each:
Name this species that includes a member with future vision sent from Homeworld who accidentally fuses with a body guard while being attacked by those rebels.
One of the Crystal Gems, Rose Quartz, led the rebellion on Earth and had a relationship with a human named Greg, which led to the birth of this character, the first human-Gem hybrid.
Steven twice frees this character from Lion’s Dimension, the first time fighting her and causing her to poof again. The element of this name can be removed from lead by the Betterton-Kroll process.
Gems
Steven Quartz Universe
Bismuth &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> A 2014 book by Jessica Wapner titled for this entity describes how a <em>People</em> magazine reporter named Alexandra Hardy is assigned to interview, and eventually marries, a man Wikipedia calls “Oregon’s best-known scientist.” For 10 points each:
Brian Druker pioneered a drug called Gleevec to treat individuals possessing what entity, which causes acute myelogenous leukemia?
Druker’s research likely saved the life of this Philadelphia chromosome haver turned Gleevec spokesman, who holds the NBA’s all-time points record and is famous for his “skyhook” and appearance in the film Airplane!
The discovery of the Philadelphia chromosome is documented in The Emperor of All Maladies, a book about the history of cancer by an oncologist with this surname. Another physician with this surname was briefly the subject of a belief system involving an invincible Chilean named Seth and a camel-riding trickster named Meigs.
Philadelphia chromosome [or Philadelphia translocation; or Ph chromosome; or BCR-ABL1; accept The Philadelphia Chromosome: A Genetic Mystery, a Lethal Cancer, and the Improbable Invention of a Lifesaving Treatment]
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar [accept Lew Alcindor or Ferdinand Lewis Alcindor Jr.]
Mukherjee [accept Siddhartha Mukherjee or Eric Milan Mukherjee; accept Wang Anshi] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> Answer the following about Jerry Lawson, for 10 points each:
Lawson helped introduce these devices to the video gaming world in 1976. A myth about these devices was that they could be fixed by blowing into them.
Lawson helped invent cartridges when he designed this game console for Fairchild.
Lawson was one of only two members of the Homebrew Computing Club with this characteristic. According to the International Game Developers Association, only 3 percent of game developers have this characteristic.
video game cartridges
Fairchild Channel F [or Video Entertainment System; or VES]
being black [or being African American] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> This restaurant tests fermentation, dehydration, and decomposition at an associated “food lab” that was, until 2015, located in a nearby houseboat. For 10 points each:
Name this New Nordic eatery headed by chef René Redzepi in Copenhagen that was named the best restaurant in the world in four of the five years between 2010 and 2014.
Noma won its four best-restaurant titles despite not earning a third star from this definitive French travel guide.
Noma’s signature dish, “the hen and the egg,” is cooked at the table in a heated dish set atop this material that is central to the French cooking technique of dans le foin.
Noma
Michelin Guide [or Michelin Guides; or Guide Michelin; accept Michelin stars]
hay [prompt on “grass” or “fodder” or similar answers] &lt;Hart&gt;
The center of this region is located about 150 to 250 million light years away from the Earth. For 10 points each:
Identify this region home to a gravitational anomaly. Since it is obscured by the Milky Way’s zone of avoidance, it has been only indirectly detected with the peculiar redshifts of nearby objects.
The gravitational center of this galaxy supercluster is the Great Attractor. The Virgo Supercluster and the Hydra-Centaurus Supercluster is part of this larger group of galaxies.
The Great Attractor causes objects to have a non-zero value for this quantity. The existence of this quantity for several clusters, which is the deviation of an object from the Hubble Flow, led Alexander Kashlinsky to theorize a “dark flow”.
the Great Attractor
Laniakea Supercluster
peculiar velocity [do not accept or prompt on “velocity”]
Answer some things about Justin Trudeau’s scientific area of expertise, quantum computing. For 10 points each:
A key practical problem in the field of quantum computing is avoiding this phenomenon, where a system becomes entangled with its environment, causing it to lose wave-like properties. It explains wavefunction collapse.
In this effect, which can be used to control two-level qubit states, a fluctuating EM field with frequency tuned to the energy difference between the two states can cause the system to periodically absorb and re-emit photons as it transitions between the two states.
This specific crystal defect in diamond possesses a triplet ground state, leading to luminescent properties which can be easily controlled at room temperature using electromagnetic fields, making it a promising candidate for a qubit.
decoherence [do not accept or prompt on “coherence”]
Rabi oscillations [or Rabi cycles]
the nitrogen-vacancy center [accept N-V center]
This thinker advised taking opiates during childbirth since she was one of the first to correctly believe that women were not "punished" with labor pains for Eve's first sin. For 10 points each:
Name this scholar, who is considered to be the world’s first gynecologist. This professor of medicine produced a widely-used medieval text that gives advice on menstruation, pregnancy, and other women’s health topics.
Trotula was a professor at this medieval Italian city, whose school of medicine inaugurated the "medical Renaissance." This city is the namesake of the southernmost province of the Campania region.
Another one of the "Ladies of Salerno," Rebecca de Guarna, wrote a treatise on diagnosing diseases using this substance. Diabetes was named because one of its symptoms was an excessive discharge of this liquid.
Trota [or Trocta; accept Trotula]
Salerno [accept the Ladies of Salerno]
urine [or pee or piss]
The word alchemy comes from the Arabic word “al-kimiya”, which was the title of this man’s <em>Book of Stones</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 8th-century polymath whose methodical experimentation into alchemy helped pave the way for chemistry as a science. His use of a kind of proto-technobabble may have inspired the word “gibberish”.
Geber was one of the earliest to use this acid, which has the ability to dissolve gold. This “royal water” was used by George de Hevesy to conceal two Nobel prizes during the Nazi invasion of Denmark.
Rather than creating gold, many Muslim alchemists including Geber seem to have had this ultimate goal, which is the creation of artificial plants, animals, and minerals in the lab. Please give the Arabic term.
Geber [or Jabir ibn Hayyan]
aqua regia
takwin
The TRAP complex is localized to this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this protein complex, which in eukaryotes contains a central hetero∙trimer of Sec61 proteins. Proteins are targeted to this complex by the signal recognition particle.
The translocon is a protein channel located in this structure, which also contains a heat shock protein called BiP and the enzyme protein disulfide isomerase.
In contrast to the ordered structure of the translocon, nuclear pore complexes contain natively unfolded domains which are rich in these two amino acids.
translocon
endoplasmic reticulum [or ER]
phenylalanine and glycine [accept F and G]
The dry adiabatic form of this quantity is constant, but the moist adiabatic variety is dependent on temperature. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is usually symbolized gamma. It determines whether an air parcel will reach the lifting condensation level and form clouds.
The lapse rate can be determined from one of these diagrams, named for the two variables plotted on its axes. Isotherms are drawn at a 45-degree angle on these diagrams.
To the left of the temperature curve on a skew-T log-P diagram is the curve representing the change in this value with altitude. This value is the temperature to which air must be cooled to be saturated with water vapor.
lapse rate [prompt on lapse]
skew-T log-P diagram
dew point
This compound mixed with glycine is used to transfer products from gel electrophoresis to a nitrocellulose membrane during Western blotting. For 10 points each:
Name this organic, basic compound that is often used as part of buffer solutions in biochemistry, since its buffering range, at pH 7-9, is useful for many biological processes. The two main buffers for nucleic acid gel electrophoresis both contain this compound.
Tris forms the "T" in the TBE and TAE buffers. The "E" in the TBE and TAE buffers refers to this common chelating hexadentate ligand, which is commonly used as a preservative.
The compound is called "tris" because "tris" is a prefix that tells you there are 3 of a specified ligand, in this case a hydroxy∙methyl group, bonded to the central atom. What prefix is used when there are 4 equivalents of the ligand?
Tris [accept THAM or tris(hydroxylmethyl)aminomethane; accept Trizma from people who are especially brand-loyal to Sigma-Aldrich]
EDTA [or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid]
tetrakis
Name some things about rigid bodies, for 10 points each:
The configuration space of a rigid body has this many degrees of freedom. In statistical mechanics, the phase-space of a one-particle distribution function has this many dimensions.
In Cartesian coordinates, a rigid body's orientation is defined by these angles. Their formulator also names a set of equations describing the relation between the principal components of torque, angular velocity, and moment of inertia in a rotating rigid body.
Consider a rigid body rotating about a fixed point. The motion is described by two shapes defined from the body's angular velocity vector, which roll without slipping over each other as the body rotates. Name either.
six
Euler angles [or Euler equations]
body cone or space cone
The brown ring test can be used to detect the presence of this polyatomic anion. For 10 points each:
Name this ion whose compound with silver is used in precipitation tests for halides, since - like the acetate, chlorate, and perchlorate ions - in general its salts are always soluble.
The ammonium and nitrate ions can form water and dinitrogen oxide in this type of reaction, where two reactants containing an element in different oxidation states react to form a compound with the element in one oxidation state.
The concentration of organic nitrogen in a sample can be determined by the Kjeldahl method, which uses this compound to digest the sample. This compound catalyzes the reaction of nitric acid and glycerol to form nitroglycerin and the reaction of nitric acid and cellulose to form nitrocellulose.
nitrates [or NO3-]
comproportionation [or synproportionation]
sulfuric acid [or H2SO4]
Formaldehydes and methanol can often be found in these transient regions that are ultimately depleted through the process of accretion. For 10 points each:
Name these regions that are named for their high-temperatures. They are often home to complex organic molecules, such as ammonia, and surround a stellar body.
Hot cores and hot corinos surround these objects, which will eventually become pre-main sequence objects. These relatively "young" bodies accumulate mass from molecular clouds.
Hot molecular cores are home to molecules that act as these astronomical phenomena. They often consist of methanol or water molecules that amplify spectral line emissions.
hot cores [accept hot corinos]
protostars
masers [or megamasers]
D. H. Alexander developed a software tool that improves upon this tool’s speed by using a quasi-Newtonian acceleration method. For 10 points each:
Name this highly cited program developed by Jonathan Pritchard to assign individuals to K distinct populations by applying a model-based clustering method to multi-locus genotype data.
In STRUCTURE, samples may be jointly assigned to multiple populations due to this phenomenon, which may lead to introgression if followed by backcrossing. The products of this process are sometimes sterile, like the mule.
The original test application of STRUCTURE used these loci, which consist of repeated 2-6 base pair units. These loci are commonly used in DNA fingerprinting and become unstable in people with defective mismatch repair.
STRUCTURE
genetic hybridization [or admixture; accept word forms]
microsatellites [or simple sequence repeats or short tandem repeats or variable number tandem repeats; or SSRs or STRs or VNTRs]
This statement considers a “golf course” like landscape as opposed to the “folding-funnel”. For 10 points each:
Name this "paradox" which notes that due to proteins having many peptide bonds with many possible bond angles, proteins attempting to fold via a random walk would require more time than the age of the universe to achieve their native conformations.
These proteins, as contrasted with fibrous proteins, tend to fold in a manner such that the hydrophobic amino acid residues are packed in the protein's interior, while hydrophilic amino acid residues point to the exterior.
The stability of proteins in various solutions can be observed using this spectroscopic technique, which extends another technique by observing differences in a sample’s absorption of left and right circularly polarized light in the IR range.
Levinthal’s paradox
globular proteins
vibrational circular dichroism [or VCD spectroscopy; prompt on circular dichroism spectroscopy or CD]
Temporal arteritis is sometimes named for these entities, since it is diagnosed by observing this entities on a biopsy. For 10 points each:
Name this specific type of object, which can also be found in biopsies in sarcoidosis sufferers. They are also seen in an idiopathic condition called Fiedler’s myocarditis.
Reed-Sternberg cells are a class of giant cells found in suffers of this form of lymphoma, which is commonly caused by EBV. Lymphomas are classified as either this type of lymphoma or “non” this type of lymphoma.
Giant cell arteritis is treated using high doses of this class of medications, which are used in the treatment of many inflammatory conditions and include dexamethasone and methylprednisolone.
giant cells [prompt on large cells or big cells; prompt on multinucleated cells; prompt on syncytia or syncytium; prompt on just cells]
Hodgkin’s lymphoma
corticosteroids [or glucocorticoids; prompt on steroids]
These quantities are those for which the derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to them is zero, meaning that the corresponding generalized momentum is conserved. For 10 points each:
Identify this name given to coordinates in Lagrangian mechanics that satisfy the above condition.
When analyzing systems with cyclic coordinates, it is useful to define this function, which obeys the Euler-Lagrange equations for non-cyclic coordinates and obeys Hamilton's equations for cyclic coordinates.
Like the Hamiltonian, the Routhian may be obtained by applying this operation to the Lagrangian. This integral transform is also used to convert between the 4 thermodynamic potentials.
cyclic coordinates [or ignorable coordinates]
Routhian
Legendre transform
This programming language uses a special data structure called “discriminated unions” that mimics the union type in other languages, but discriminated unions allow for the better handling of heterogeneous data. For 10 points each:
Identify this functional programming language for the .NET (“DOT NET”) environment. It is somewhat similar to OCaml.
Like many languages in the ML family, F# guarantees type safety by using this algorithm to guarantee type-compatibility. This algorithm is a refinement of the generically named Algorithm W.
F# has a relatively ad-hoc form of this property, which allows for a single interface to handle many different data types. In C++, templates and operator overloading make this property possible.
F# [or F-sharp]
Hindley-Milner [or Damas-Milner or Damas-Hindley-Milner type inference algorithm]
polymorphism [prompt on object-oriented programming or OOP]
Cole-Cole plots are used to describe this phenomenon, whose mathematical derivation for an oscillating electric field was derived by Debye. For 10 points each
Name this phenomenon, where the changing the external electric field permeating a material will cause the material's polarization to change, while lagging behind the change in the E-field.
Dielectric relaxation is basically analogous to this process that occurs in ferromagnets, where the magnetization lags behind changes in the magnetic field. When plotted, it produces a namesake loop.
The x-intercept of a ferromagnetic hysteresis loop is known by this term, since it represents the value of the applied magnetic field needed to completely cancel the magnetization in the material.
dielectric relaxation [or dipole relaxation or Debye relaxation]
hysteresis
coercivity
The presence of these regions lowers the effective reactor volume. For 10 points each:
Name these "zones" present in a chemical reactor with imperfect mixing, which are regions in the reactor where mixing is low, so no reaction occurs there.
Ideal reactors are operated under this condition, in which the flowrate in equals the flowrate out, and the concentrations of all of the reactive components are constant throughout time. Two-step batch reaction kinetics can be simplified by this approximation, which states that the amount of intermediate remains constant.
The residence time distribution in an ideal plug-flow reactor takes the form of this function.
dead zones
steady-state
Dirac delta function
This device was independently invented by the Finnish scientist Yrjo Vaisala, and is used to correct coma and astigmatism in addition to spherical aberrations. For 10 points each:
Name these aspheric lens that are used in their namesake’s cata∙dioptric telescopes.
Catadioptric telescopes are so named because they combine lenses with these devices.
The Schmidt catadioptric telescopes are the precursor of these telescopes, which uses a secondary mirror to reflect light from the primary mirror into the eyepiece. Hyperbolic mirrors are used in the Ritchey-Chretien variant of these telescopes.
Schmidt corrector plates [prompt on corrector plates]
mirrors
Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope
In these devices, fast-moving particles running into either each other or into residual particles in the vacuum decreases the beam lifetime. For 10 points each:
Identify this general class of particle accelerators that keep charged particles moving quickly in a ring until they are needed, such as before feeding them into a collider.
In this process, a beam of particles in a storage ring is made to converge by using alternating magnetic fields which compress the beam in the radial and vertical directions. Three Nobel Prizes in Physics were awarded for work done using a synchrotron named for its use of this concept at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
Simultaneous focusing in both directions is impossible due to this theorem, which more commonly states that a collection of point charges cannot exist in a stable equilibrium.
storage rings
alternating gradient focusing [or strong focusing; prompt on focusing]
Earnshaw's theorem
Name the following things related to 8-membered hydrocarbon rings. For 10 points each:
Cyclo-octa-tetra-ene adopts a tub conformation to avoid having this highly destabilizing property, which is characteristic of a planar and fully conjugated pi system with 4n pi electrons.
Cyclo-octa-diene acts as a bidentate ligand coordinated to iridium in this hydrogenation catalyst, which is especially useful at reducing highly substituted olefins.
Cyclo-octane can exhibit a crown conformation, like elemental sulfur, but its most stable conformation is this asymmetric conformation, which is stable because it lacks flagpole hydrogens and minimizes transannular strain.
antiaromaticity [do not accept or prompt on "aromaticity"]
Crabtree's catalyst
boat-chair conformation [or chair-boat conformation; do NOT accept or prompt on partial answers]
The downward variety of these entities consists of negatively charged ions. For 10 points each:
Identify these thin filaments of ionized air, which branch out in a “stepped” fashion as they move downward from a cloud towards the ground, where they will meet an upward streamer.
When a leader touches the streamer, the return stroke occurs, leading to the brightest flash in this phenomenon. Because it is followed a few seconds later by a booming noise, you can use the speed of sound to estimate how far away it occurred.
The electric fields produced around leaders are thought to generate the relativistic runaway electron avalanches that are responsible for these events, which were first observed by NASA’s CGRO .
leaders
lightning
terrestrial gamma ray bursts [accept “flashes” in lieu of “bursts”; prompt on GRBs; or gamma ray bursts]
A shape parameter characterizes this man’s namesake lambda function, which is unusually based on its own quantile function. For 10 points each:
Name this statistician who introduced the jacknife method, and who names an efficient algorithm for computing the discrete Fourier Transform with James William Cooley.
This adjective denotes a type of analysis that involves summarizing the main characteristics of the data before creating models. Often contrasted with confirmatory analysis, it was first used in a John Tukey book which introduced the box plot.
The book Exploratory Data Analysis pioneered this technique, in which correlated variables are transformed and reduced into the namesake set of uncorrelated variables. The NIPALS algorithm is often used in this technique.
John Tukey [or John Wilder Tukey]
exploratory data analysis
principal component analysis [or PCA]
Rhesus monkeys punish this behavior by forming screeching coalitions against individuals who decide not to call the community upon discovering food. For 10 points each:
Name this term from ethology denoting a selection-favored behavior in which an organism reaps the benefits from its community without fully participating in it.
In food-scarce conditions, this haploid model amoeba aggregates into a multicellular fruiting body wherein roughly 20% of the cells give up the ability to reproduce, enabling rampant cheating by individuals who want to keep passing on their genotypes while enjoying the hardier form.
Cheating can also occur in these inter-specific interactions; for instance, cleaner wrasses snack on the scales and mucus layers of the fish that they rid of parasites, perverting a mutualistic relationship.
cheating [accept word forms]
Dictyostelium discoideum [or D. discoideum; prompt on slime molds]
symbiosis [accept word forms]
Lavoslav Ruzicka invented a type of this reaction which uses a thorium oxide catalyst. For 10 points each:
Name this general type of reaction, whose favorability among aliphatic compounds is predicted by Baldwin’s rules. The Pictet-Spengler reaction is a variant of the Mannich reaction which is also this type of reaction.
According to Baldwin’s rules, ring closing reactions are first classified as endo or exo according to whether the bond being broken is inside or outside the ring, and then as one of three abbreviations depending on the hybridization of the electrophilic carbon. Name any.
The endo transition state is favored in this archetypal ring-closing reaction between a diene and a dienophile.
ring closure [or cyclization; accept ring formation or answers that clearly indicating that a new ring is being created]
tet, trig, or dig
Diels-Alder reaction
For 10 points each, answer the following about bizarre cuisine in China:
This substance is used to fertilize the world's most expensive tea. A cup of this kind of tea sells for approximately 300 U.S. dollars.
Another costly Chinese delicacy is bird's nest soup, which is actually made of this substance that sells for approximately 5,000 dollars a pound. In humans, this substance is produced by namesake exocrine glands and contains amylase.
If you want a cheaper delicacy, you can pay about a dollar for an egg in Dongyang, China, which are boiled in this rather unique liquid. According to the article I read, eating those eggs prevents heat stroke.
panda poop [prompt on dung or excrement]
saliva [or spit or equivalents]
urine of a virgin boy “preferably under the age of 10” [must give answers indicating urine of a virgin boy; prompt on urine; prompt on urine of a virgin; prompt on urine of a boy; accept similar synonyms for each component of the answer; such as "pee" for "urine".]
This man lends his name to any function of the variables of a dynamical system that is positive definite and whose total time derivative is negative semidefinite. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian mathematician who developed a namesake definition of stability for equilibria of dynamical systems.
Lyapunov also names a critical exponent which describes the rate at which two close trajectories diverge. A positive Lyapunov exponent indicates that a dynamical system has this property.
This theorem improves on Lyapunov’s stability theorem by allowing one to establish asymptotic stability even if the Lyapunov function is only negative semidefinite, as long as its derivative is only zero on the trivial trajectory. Though most commonly named for an American, it was first proven by a Russian.
Aleksandr Mikhailovich Lyapunov
chaos [or chaotic]
LaSalle’s invariance principle [or LaSalle-Krasovskii principle, accept either underlined part]
Name the following things related to the Bhopal disaster. For 10 points each:
Thousands of people died when a tank of toxic methyl isocyanate ruptured due to this situation, in which an exothermic reaction is not adequately supplied with coolant. Because reaction rates increase with temperature and exothermic reactions release heat, the reaction auto-accelerates.
The methyl isocyanate had been produced by reacting methylamine with this compound, which contains two chlorine atoms bonded to a carbonyl and was used as a chemical weapon during World War 1.
To prevent thermal runaway, batch reactors and chemical tanks are usually equipped with these safety features, a shell of tubes surrounding the tank through which refrigerant is routed to absorb the released heat.
thermal runaway [or a runaway reaction]
phosgene [prompt on COCl2]
jackets
This task can be accomplished for different diseases by methods named for Gleason, Ann Arbor, and Dukes. For 10 points each:
Name this task which can be performed by the TNM classification. It involves ascribing a number, typically 0 to 4, to quantify spread of a certain class of diseases throughout the body.
Colon cancer staging involves looking at whether or not the cancer is behind, within, or beyond this region. This region is innervated by the myenteric plexus and is comprised of inner "circular" and outer "longitudinal" parts.
Levels 2 through 4 of Clark’s level for early staging of a particular cancer looks at the the spread of cancer to the thin "papillary" and thick "reticular" parts of this region.
cancer staging [or cancer grading; or cancer scoring; accept “tumor” in place of “cancer”]
muscular layer [or muscular coat, muscular fibers, muscularis propria, muscularis externa]
dermis [do not accept or prompt on “epidermis” or other prefixes]
These two adjectives describe two electromagnetic waves in plasmas which propagate perpendicular to the magnetic field. For 10 points each:
Name these two words, which are sometimes used to describe the two optical axes of a uniaxial crystal.
A ray of light is decomposed into "ordinary" and "extraordinary" components upon entering a material with this property, in which the index of refraction depends on polarization.
In contrast to the ordinary and extraordinary waves of electrons, electromagnetic waves of ions propagating perpendicular to the magnetic field are given this name. This wave's dispersion relation is expressed in terms of the Alfven velocity.
ordinary and extraordinary
birefringence [or birefringent]
magnetosonic wave
Variants of this software architecture pattern replace its third component with a "planner". For 10 points each:
Name this scheme that divides up code into three parts: one component stores data, another is the data that a user is displayed, and the third updates information in the first two.
The MVC approach is often considered to be one of these constructs, which are the subject of a book by Ralph Johnson, Erich Gamma, et al. There are “facade” and “adapter” ones of these as well.
Because what constitutes the components of the model-view-controller paradigm is often subject to debate, software engineers often use the MVW pattern, where "W" stands for this component.
model-view-controller [or MVC; accept model-view-viewmodel or MVVM]
design patterns [prompt on patterns]
whatever you want [accept equivalents that mention whatever, such as whatever it is]
As typically presented today, this model features four or five stages ranging from a totally pre-industrial first stage to a late industrial last stage. For 10 points each:
Name this well-verified model proposed by Warren Thompson, which predicts a sharp reduction in fertility rates and mortality rates as a society modernizes.
Demographers might also study mortality using this law devised by one British actuary and corrected by another. It models the likelihood of death by correcting an age-dependent exponential or sigmoid function with an age-independent term.
Demographers might use this sort of map, which distorts a geographic map to better display some other variable, such as population density. Michigan professor Mark Newman makes them for the popular votes of U.S. presidential elections.
demographic transition model
Gompertz-Makeham law/function/equation [or Makeham-Gompertz; accept any answer indicating Benjamin Gompertz's law with William Makeham's modification; prompt on Gompertz; prompt on Makeham]
cartograms [do not accept or prompt on "cartograph"]
These proteins are similar in function to the kainate receptor. For 10 points each:
Name these ligand-gated ion channels which mediate transmission between synapses in the central nervous system when agonized by glutamate. Unlike a similar class of receptors, they do not have a magnesium ion at their core.
AMPA and NMDA receptors mediate synaptic plasticity, an effect which occurs due to this phenomenon, in which patterns of activity at a synapse over a large period of time increase the strength of transmission at the synapse.
AMPA receptors contain a C-terminal domain which binds to these other protein domains found in various scaffolding proteins. By binding to the C-termini of various proteins, these domains mediate the formation of multi-protein signalling complexes and link receptor proteins to the cytoskeleton.
AMPA receptors [or, god forbid, α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors]
long-term potentiation [or LTP]
PDZ domains
The Grunwald-Winstein equation is an example of one of these equations. For 10 points each:
Name this class of equations, which relate the logarithm of a reaction's rate constant or equilibrium constant to a simple function of various constants representing the effects of solvents or reactant substituents. The Hammett equation is an example.
The Bronsted catalysis equation is an LFER used to describe this type of acid catalysis. Enzymes utilize this type of acid catalysis, in which the reaction rate depends on the concentration of any protonated species in solution.
This rule, formulated by William Jencks, states that general acid or general base catalysis can occur if there is a thermodynamically unfavorable proton transfer in the ground state, which becomes thermodynamically favorable in the transition state.
linear free energy relationships or LFERs [prompt on free energy relationship]
general acid catalysis
libido rule
This method is useful compared to strict rational approaches because there are 20 raised to the N proteins with N amino acids—too many to individually synthesize and test. For 10 points each:
Name this method in which a protein of interest is engineered by making many copies of its gene, applying mutagenesis, then performing a screening assay to measure their function and isolating the highest-performing proteins. The cycle is repeated, causing a situation analogous to climbing a hill on a fitness landscape.
The first two steps of a directed evolution cycle can be combined into one by using a "mutagenic" variant of this technique, which can use "high-fidelity" proteins like Pfu.
A very simple example of a screening assay in molecular biology is this one, in which the gene of interest is cloned into a site in the middle of the lacZ gene inside a bacterium. The cells are then plated on X-gal to visually-distinguish successful recombinants.
directed evolution [prompt on evolution]
PCR [or polymerase chain reaction]
blue-white screen
Weinberg names one of these quantities, which is used to relate the masses of the W and Z bosons. For 10 points each:
Name these quantities, which measure how certain sets of particles, such as the neutral bosons or neutrinos, convert between different eigenstates via the weak force. The PMNS matrix contains three of them.
The CKM matrix contains three mixing angles and one complex phase parameter, which is the source of this effect, in which the weak force does not preserve a combined symmetry between charge conjugation and parity inversion.
This Swedish female particle physicist names a parameterization-invariant quantity calculated from the elements of the CKM matrix which quantifies the strength of CP violation.
mixing angles [prompt on angles]
CP violation [or charge-parity violation]
Cecilia Jarlskog
These reactions are denoted "I-A" or "I-D" depending on the reaction's sensitivity to the identity and concentration of the incoming ligand. For 10 points each:
Name this class of ligand substitution reactions, in which one ligand enters and another leaves in a single step, with no intermediates.
A complex which readily undergoes ligand substitution reactions is described by this 6-letter word, which contrasts with complexes which are "inert."
For substitution reactions of square planar complexes, the degree to which the rate of reaction changes with respect to the nucleophilicity of the entering group is measured by this quantity, denoted S.
interchange substitutions
labile
nucleophilic discrimination factor
The most visible one of these structures is the 340-kilometer Memphis Facula on Ganymede. For 10 points each:
Name these craters whose depressions have been smoothed away by ice, leaving behind only a discolored rim.
Palimpsest craters are often cited as evidence of this phenomenon, in which water and methane are emitted as a "magma melt" from a moon's or planetoid's interior.
Perhaps the strongest evidence for cryovolcanism are 4 linear depressions known as "tiger stripes" on this moon. Space cartographers want you to know that Samarkand Sulci is a region of "grooved" terrain on it.
palimpsests
cryovolcanism [accept answers indicating cryovolcano activity; prompt on volcanism]
Enceladus
Examples of these phenomena with a minimum possible duration are called "transform-limited." For 10 points each:
Name these phenomena. "Ultrashort" examples of them can be produced by techniques like Q-switching and mode-locking.
Mode-locking and Q-switching can both be made to have this property through the use of a saturable absorber. This word indicates that the techniques does not require an external device to produce pulses—everything occurs within the cavity.
The temporal shape of a laser pulse can be described by a Gaussian profile, a Lorentzian profile, or a profile given by the square of this function.
laser pulses [or pulsed lasers; prompt on lasers or laser beams]
passive
hyperbolic secant [or sech]
Ferrocene contains two ligands for which this quantity equals five. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, symbolized eta, which represents the number of contiguous atoms in a ligand which collectively coordinate to the metal.
These compounds consist of a polyhaptic cyclic ligand bonded to a metal that is bonded to several monodentate ligands. An example is the anti-knock agent MMT.
The first-ever synthesized "triple decker sandwich" compound is basically a Big Mac where cyclopentadiene is the bun and this element is the filling. The metallocene containing this compound is bright green in color.
hapticity
half-sandwich compounds [or piano stool compounds; do NOT accept or prompt on "sandwich compounds" or "metallocenes"]
nickel [or Ni]
Yoshio Masui discovered this protein complex in frog oocytes by noting that they were naturally arrested in the G2 phase until injected with progesterone. For 10 points each:
Name this complex comprised of cyclin B and cyclin-dependent kinase 1, which phosphorylates numerous proteins, such as condensins, histones, and lamins.
Later, MPF is disassembled by a ubiquitin ligase complex named for the fact that it promotes this phase, by degrading various cyclins and securin. During this phase, the kinetochore microtubules contract.
The anaphase-promoting complex binds to its substrates by recognizing either the destruction-box or this other consensus sequence.
maturation promoting factor [or MPF, or mitosis promoting factor, or M-phase promoting factor]
anaphase
KEN-box
In the ideal case, this thermodynamic cycle is basically a Rankine cycle run in reverse. For 10 points each:
Name this thermodynamic cycle composed of an evaporator, followed by a compressor, followed by a condenser, followed by an expansion valve. It has the net effect of absorbing heat from a cold reservoir and depositing it into a hot reservoir
The expansion valve used in a vapor-compression refrigeration cycle causes the fluid to undergo this kind of process, in which the fluid expands at constant enthalpy.
The efficiency, as measured by the coefficient of performance, of a vapor-compression refrigeration cycle can be increased by putting multiple vapor-compression systems in series, producing a cycle known by this term.
vapor-compression refrigeration cycle [prompt on refrigeration cycle]
throttling [accept Joule-Thomson effect or process]
cascade vapor-compression refrigeration cycle
This musical interval has a size of about 21.5 cents, and a ratio of 81-to-80. For 10 points each:
Name this interval that represents the difference in size between a justly-tuned 5-to-4 major third, and a major third from a different tuning system in which it has a ratio of 81-to-64.
A major third has a ratio of 81-to-64 in the tuning system of this ancient Greek, who legendarily discovered the ratios between intervals when he walked past a blacksmith’s forge that was using differently-sized hammers.
Early music theorists examined tuning ratios in both Pythagorean and just tuning on this device, which consists of a single string stretched over a board or resonator.
syntonic comma [or Didymus's comma; accept Ptolemaic comma or diatonic comma or chromatic diesis; prompt on comma]
Pythagoras
monochord [or monochordum]
This topology is generally favored over the hub and wheel topology, since if one node fails, the entire network does not fail. For 10 points each:
Name this topology in which all devices on the network serve as access points. These networks are generally self-healing and self-discovering, meaning that a new node added to it can be efficiently incorporated automatically.
A mesh network must use a more complicated algorithm for dealing with this phenomenon, in which the network is dealing with more traffic than it can handle, much like its real-life highway counterpart.
This protocol is often used on multi-hop mesh networks over the OLSR algorithm for routing since its advantage is that it decentralizes data on the mesh network. As its name indicates, it is a “better approach” to mesh networking.
mesh network [prompt on ad-hoc networks]
congestion [accept word forms]
B.A.T.M.A.N. [or Better Approach to Mobile Ad Hoc Networking]
The base-10 logarithm of the magnitude of this quantity is plotted against the phase of this quantity in a Nichols chart. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which has a constant term, a term proportional to s and a term proportional to "one over s" for a linear time-invariant system operated under a feedback PID controller.
The transfer function is often calculating using this transform, which can also be used to transform differential equations into algebraic equations.
This technique allows one to graphically observe the effect of changing a property of a system on the properties of the transfer function. This technique plots the transfer function against the gain parameter.
transfer function
Laplace transform
root locus technique
Ropivacaine, also known by the brand name Naropin, is a drug administered epidurally for this therapeutic purpose. For 10 points each:
Name this therapeutic goal, which can also involve drugs like propofol and lidocaine. "Volatile" drugs used for this purpose include desflurane and sevoflurane.
In rare cases, usage of volatile inhalation anesthetics or the neuromuscular blocker succinyl•choline can cause this life-threatening condition, which causes severe muscle spasms and an extremely high body temperature.
In many cases, individuals who have a mutated version of this protein are susceptible to malignant hyperthermia. This protein mediates the release of calcium ions from the sarcoplasmic reticulum in skeletal muscle.
anesthesia [accept more specific answers like general anesthesia or local anesthesia; prompt on sedation or numbing; prompt on descriptive answers like knocking someone out]
malignant hyperthermia [prompt on hyperthermia]
ryanodine receptor 1 [or RyR1]
Arnold Sommerfeld devised this model by solving the Schrodinger equation using similar assumptions to that of the Drude model. For 10 points each:
Name this model describing the electronic structure of metals, whose principal assumption is that conduction electrons do not interact with other electrons or the constituent ions of the lattice, and thus travel throughout the crystal unimpeded.
Because a metal is a periodic crystal, the wavefunction for a free electron is an example of the "waves" named for this physicist, who, along with Edward Purcell, developed NMR.
Bloch's theorem also models the wavefunctions in these structures, which can be used to construct quantum cascade lasers and Bloch oscillators. They are periodic structures consisting of alternating layers of two different semiconducting materials.
free electron model [or free electron gas]
Felix Bloch
superlattice
For addition reactions to carbonyls, this phenomenon is described by the Felkin-Anh model. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, which is the mechanism explaining Cram's rule. In this phenomenon, the presence of a chiral center in the catalyst or substrate of a reaction leads to the selective formation of stereocenters during the reaction.
Cram's rule describes the formation of this specific type of isomer, which are often denoted by the prefixes erythro- and threo-. These isomers differ at one or more stereocenters and are not mirror images.
In electrocyclic reactions, this term refers to the stereoselectivity observed when asymmetric induction causes the two substituents to rotate either in the same, or conrotatory, direction; or in different, or disrotatory, directions.
asymmetric induction [or enantioinduction; do not accept or prompt on “induction” or “inductive effects”]
diastereomers
torquoselectivity
The Thellier laws established the “linearity,” “reciprocity,” “independence,” and “additivity” of the “partial” forms of this process, allowing them to be summed to calculate the “total” form of it. For 10 points each:
Identify this process by which rocks acquire a hysteresis caused by Earth’s magnetic field during the period in which igneous rocks are heated above the Curie temperature, but have not yet solidified.
The thermoremanent magnetization of igneous rocks forms the basis of a technique that allows for the dating of these layers, which are usually comprised of sedimentary rocks.
A less common form of remanent of magnetization used in geological dating is shock-remanent magnetization, which are induced by these events. The range over which these events deposit material is called a strewnfield.
thermoremanent magnetization
strata [or stratums]
meteor impacts [accept equivalents mentioning meteors hitting Earth]
At the end of this process, DNA ligase IV is used to create the coding and signal joints. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which begins when the protein RAG1 binds to an RSS and makes a double-strand break. The function of this process is similar to that of a related process called somatic hypermutation.
V(D)J recombination is the mechanism which creates diversity in the T-cell receptor and in these proteins, whose heavy chains can change between 5 different isotypes in a process called "class switching."
According to a namesake rule, a recombination signal sequence, or RSS, consists of a conserved heptamer and a nonamer separated by a spacer whose length in number of base pairs is one of these two numbers. Name both.
V(D)J recombination [or VJ recombination; prompt on recombination]
antibodies [or immunoglobulins]
12 AND 23
The kinematics of these events can be depicted graphically on a Dalitz plot. For 10 points each:
Name these events. They're not resonances, but the cross section of these events can is expressed in terms of energy and their namesake "width" by the Breit-Wigner formula.
For a particle that can undergo various decay routes, this quantity is the ratio of the decay width for an individual decay route to the total decay width for all decay routes, or the fraction of particles which will decay by a given route.
The capital form of this letter represents the decay width. Its lowercase form denotes the Lorentz factor.
particle decays
branching ratio or fraction
gamma
The spacing between spectral lines in the P and R branches is equal to two times this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, denoted B. Solving the Schrodinger equation for a diatomic molecule gives energy levels proportional to this quantity [pause], times J [pause], times J plus 1.
Rotational constants arise when analyzing a molecule using this form of spectroscopy, which uses low energy radiation to analyze rotational transitions.
The expression for the energy levels of a rigid rotor can be made more accurate by adding a "centrifugal distortion" term, which is proportional to this function of J, where J is the angular momentum quantum number.
rotational constant
microwave spectroscopy
J squared, times J plus one squared [accept J to the fourth plus 2 J cubed plus J squared]
The usage of these devices is referred to as "biolistic transformation." For 10 points each:
Name these devices which use a helium propellant to deliver DNA particles coated in gold or tungsten to cells. They're commonly used to accomplish transformation in plants.
A common application of gene guns in industry is to transform plant cells with the Cyt and Cry toxins derived from this organism. Those toxins form pores in the midgut epithelial cells of many small invertebrates.
Another common example of genetic transformation of plant cells is the creation of this specialized crop, which contains genes needed to biosynthesize beta-carotene.
gene guns
Bacillus thuringiensis [or Bt; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
golden rice [prompt on rice]
Like Cockayne syndrome, this disease results from defective nucleotide excision repair. For 10 points each:
Name this genetic disorder, in which an inability to repair UV-induced DNA damage leads to an extreme sensitivity to sunlight, leading to dark, freckled skin as early as the age of 2 and an incredibly high risk of skin cancer.
The main form of DNA damage induced by UV light leads to dimerization of these DNA bases, which only have one ring, rather than two.
While pyrimidine dimers usually form a cyclobutyl group, more rarely, this type of dimer forms. Its name comes from the numbers of the two carbon atoms which become linked by a methyl group.
xeroderma pigmentosum [or XP]
pyrimidines [accept thymine dimers]
6,4-photoproduct
The relatively-slow Verhoeff algorithm is often used for this task, since it is guaranteed to detect all accidental two-digit "transpositions." For 10 points each:
Name this task, which can be done via the more-efficient, but less-correct Luhn algorithm. After this task has been performed, one may apply the Reed-Solomon schemes to certain values.
William Wesley Peterson invented this form of error detection, which adds a value to a set of data that is used to verify the data is correct by performing a form of polynomial division on the data set. It is used in implementations of Ethernet to verify that packets are uncorrupted.
Many of the same algorithms that perform error detection are used to implement "cryptographic" and "non-cryptographic" forms of these functions, which are used to map values into namesake lookup tables.
error detection [accept error-correction; accept equivalents indicating that mistakes are being found]
cyclic redundancy checks [or CRCs; prompt on checksums]
hash functions [or hashes]
For 10 points each, answer the following about chemicals that drug discovery chemist and blogger Derek Lowe "won't work with."
Lowe analogized synthesizing compounds with multiple examples of this functional group as "a bunch of guys wheeling around drums of fuming acid while singing the Anvil Chorus from Il Trovatore." This explosive functional group is a strong meta-director of electrophilic aromatic substitutions.
In an entry ominously titled "Sand Won't Save You This Time," Lowe describes a reagent based on this element which is so strongly oxidizing that it can set fire to bricks, asbestos tile, and wet sand. A derivative of glucose containing this element is used as a tracer in PET scans.
In another entry, Lowe describes how these functional groups possess an extreme smell capable of pervading the entire laboratory, deadening the sense of smell and inducing severe headaches and nausea. They combine with a carbonyl, an amine, and a carboxylic acid in the Ugi reaction.
nitro
fluorine [or F]
isocyanides [or isonitriles, do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
The coefficients in this technique are usually written in terms of spherical harmonics. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical technique, which is used in physics to express the electrostatic potential of a group of point charges in terms of powers of one-over-R.
Spherical harmonics are the solutions to this equation in cylindrical coordinates. Adding a source term to this differential equation gives Poisson's equation.
The multipole expansion is used to calculate the deformation parameters of these entities, which can be used to describe their "breathing” vibrational modes.
multipole expansion [prompt on expansion or Taylor expansion]
Laplace equation
atomic nuclei [or nucleus]
A Boolean function has this property if negating the function is equivalent to negating each of its individual variables. For 10 points each:
Give this term. In another context, the tetrahedron, but not the other four Platonic solids, has this property.
In group theory, unimodular lattices, which have a determinant of 1 or -1 are inherently self-dual. This unimodular lattice in 24-dimensional space solves the kissing number problem.
Desargues’ theorem, which relates axial perspectivity to central perspectivity and vice versa, is self-dual and applies to the geometry described by this term. Parallel lines intersect at “infinity” points in the plane of this name.
self-dual [do not accept or prompt on “dual”]
Leech lattice
projective geometry [or projective planes]
These events are followed by secondary succession when they occur naturally and periodically in the chaparral. For 10 points each:
Name this specific kind of ecosystem disturbance, which are often performed in a controlled fashion by humans to preserve an ecosystem's natural cycles of biodiversity.
Wildfires occur at three different levels: ground fires, surface fires, and this high-intensity type of fire, which spreads from treetop to treetop and is difficult to control.
Some plants in ecosystems with natural wildfires have adapted by adopting this behavior, in which seed dispersal doesn't occur upon maturation, but instead occurs in response to an environmental trigger.
wildfires [or forest fires]
crown fires
serotiny [or serotinous]
The van Laar equations are used to calculate these quantities indirectly in terms of the excess Gibbs free energy. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, denoted gamma, which accounts for non-ideal behavior in solutions. When it equals 1, Raoult's Law holds.
According to the Debye-Huckel limiting law, the natural log of the activity coefficient of an electrolyte scales with this power of the ionic strength.
This thermodynamic model for activity coefficients of binary mixtures is similar to the Wilson model, but it describes partially miscible systems well due to including a parameter denoted "alpha-1-2." When that parameter is zero, this model reduces to the two-suffix Margules equations.
activity coefficients
square root [or one-half power]
NRTL or non-random two-liquid model
Because the edges of this entity are not obvious, one can characterize their size by the displacement thickness or the momentum thickness. For 10 points each:
Name these regions of flow near a surface, in which viscous effects are significant. They were conjectured by Ludwig Prandtl to avoid d'Alembert's paradox.
According to the Blasius model, the displacement thickness for a laminar boundary layer is proportional to this quantity raised to the negative one-half power.
When a fluid enters a pipe, the boundary layers grow and eventually meet as the fluid moves through the pipe. Beyond the point where the boundary layers meet, this two-word term describes the flow regime, since the velocity profile doesn't change with length.
boundary layers
Reynolds number [or Re]
fully developed flow
The most common model for these diagrams is named for van Genuchthen and predicts that the dependent variable is an exponential function of pressure with two empirical parameters. For 10 points each:
Name these curves that are often estimated using software like RETC. They are usually plots of a dimensionless concentration labelled theta and the negative potential psi, measured in hectopascals.
In a hydrogeologic budget, the net change in retention equals inflow minus outflow, where outflow often occurs via this process, which is is the flow of water over land that can’t absorb it quickly enough.
Determining a hydrogeologic budget is often done using water retention curves and tensiometers, which measure the amount of water in these zones. In these zones the water is unsaturated, meaning it will fall into the phreatic layers down below.
soil water retention curves [or SWRCs; or water characteristic curves; prompt on partial answer]
surface runoff
vadose zone
One of these equations predicts that the self-diffusion coefficient depends on the square of the velocity. For 10 points each:
Name these equations which set linear transport coefficients equal to the time integral of autocorrelation functions. They can be used to obtain expressions for momentum and thermal diffusivity too.
The Green-Kubo relations can be derived from the central limit theorem and a theorem named for this process, which shows how the rate of entropy generation evolves in time. A different theorem in statistical mechanics relates the rates of this process and dissipation.
In nonequilibrium stat mech, the dissipation of entropy is often described as a contraction of this hypothetical quantity. This quantity symbolized capital gamma or capital omega is usually the normalization constant for the microcanonical ensemble and equals Planck’s constant to the N in N dimensions.
Green-Kubo relations [or Kubo relations; prompt on Green relations]
thermodynamic fluctuations [or fluctuation theorem]
the volume of phase space [prompt on partial answer]
A mysterious disease resembling a hybrid of this disorder and Parkinson’s erupted on Guam in the 40s and 50s. For 10 points each:
Name this disease treated by the drug riluzole. Forty percent of people with this disease in North America have an A4V mutation in the gene encoding copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, whereas in Europe, it is mostly caused by hexanucleotide repeats in an open reading frame on chromosome 9.
The disparity between SOD1 mutations in North America and the rest of the world can be attributed mainly to this effect, in which genetic variation is lost when a new population emerges after colonizing a new area.
Hampton Carson extensively studied how the founder effect in the Hawaiian islands led to formation of species like plantibia and nigribasis in this animal genus. Organisms in this genus are often bred to make isofemale lines.
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [or ALS]
founder effect
Drosophila
This disorder is similar to pulmonary hypoplasia. For 10 points each:
Name this disease, which is caused by insufficient surfactant production in the lungs of a developing infant. It is one of the most common causes of death in preterm infants.
An antiquated name for infant respiratory distress syndrome refers to this kind of membrane. This word also identifies a type of cartilage which is found on articular surfaces and has a glass-like appearance.
These small benign laminated hyaline masses can sometimes be seen histologically in the alveoli, but they're more commonly seen in the prostate, where they're also called prostate stones or prostatic concretions.
IRDS [or infant respiratory distress syndrome, or neonatal respiratory distress syndrome; accept but DO NOT REVEAL TO TEAMS: hyaline membrane disease or HMD]
hyaline [accept hyaline membrane disease or hyaline cartilage]
corpora amylacea
Answer the following about the effects of excluded volume in chemistry, for 10 points each:
The idea that particles have excluded volume justified one of the fudge factors in this basic cubic equation of state, which represents particle hard-sphere volumes with a parameter labeled b.
This theory predicts that, at the theta condition, the effect of excluded volume is exactly matched by the effect of intermolecular forces. Its namesake interaction parameter is usually very close to ½ at infinite dilution.
In this effect, the rate of enzymatic reactions is higher in the cytosol than in vitro because there is less available volume for solvent, so the effective concentration of substrates is higher. PEG is often used to induce it.
van der Waals equation of state [or vdW equation]
Flory-Huggins solution theory
macromolecular crowding [or word forms; or crowding agents]
This drug was shown to be superior to clopidogrel in reducing the rate of mortality in patients with acute coronary syndrome in the 2009 PLATO study. For 10 points each:
Name this drug. Like clopidogrel and prasugrel, it’s an anti∙platelet agent which prevents platelet aggregation by targeting the P2Y12 receptor.
Among the patients in the PLATO trial were those with an elevation in this segment of an electrocardiogram. Its elevation is often associated with heart attack, and it represents the time between depolarization and repolarization of the ventricle.
Other standard treatments for acute coronary syndrome include this painkilling NSAID derived from a secretion of the willow tree.
ticagrelor [brand name Brilinta]
ST interval [or ST segment]
aspirin [or acetylsalicylic acid]
The Canadian Traveller Problem must be solved using an algorithm of this type. For 10 points each:
Name this type of algorithm that does not have access to the entire input, and therefore must solve the problem given the input one piece at a time.
This simple quadratic sorting algorithm is one of the best-known examples of an online algorithm. In it, each element in the list is sequentially selected, then placed in the proper position to form a sorted list.
Sleator and Tarjan introduced the use of this technique on the list update problem to analyze the efficiency of online algorithms. It essentially calculates the ratio of the work done by an online algorithm to its offline counterpart.
online algorithm
insertion sort
competitive analysis
In general, elastomers tend to have low values of Young's modulus and of this other quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. Like melting point, it is typically measured for an elastomer by performing differential scanning calorimetry.
A classic elastomer is natural rubber, which is a polymer of this five-carbon compound. Terpenes are also comprised of multiple units of this compound.
An elastomer known as the Terminator possesses this property, which can be conferred onto a material by adding microcapsules which contain the monomer and a catalyst embedded in an epoxy resin.
glass transition temperature [or T sub g]
isoprene
self-healing [or self-repairing]
In this formalism, the shift and lapse functions are used to choose convenient gauges. For 10 points each:
Name this framework within general relativity, which considers a spacetime foliated into three-dimensional spacelike slices labeled by their time coordinates, and writes the equations of motion in the form of Hamilton's equations on this spacetime.
Most equations in the ADM formalism use the notation named for this physicist where any indices presented are assumed to be summed over. This physicist also names the field equations central to GR.
The Einstein field equations can be derived by finding stationary points of this quantity, which equals one over 16 pi G times the integral over the whole spacetime of the Ricci scalar times the square root of minus the determinant of the metric.
Arnowitt-Deser-Misner formalism [or ADM formalism]
Albert Einstein
Einstein-Hilbert action [prompt on action]
Because this tournament is so fun and easy for you, you become the ultimate hope, choose to celebrate by hitting the booze, end up becoming an alcoholic, and years later end up in the hospital. For 10 points each:
You are diagnosed with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, a grouping of various neurological symptoms associated with alcohol abuse, leading to a functional deficiency of this vitamin.
To treat the thiamine deficiency, you are prescribed IV fluids containing a multivitamin, thiamine, and folic acid. The fluid admixture is given this nickname due to the color of the solution.
To treat your chronic alcoholism outside the hospital, you are prescribed this drug, which inhibits acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, causing you to experience severe hangover-like symptoms within minutes of ingesting alcohol.
thiamine [or vitamin B1; prompt on B vitamins]
banana bag [or rally pack]
disulfiram [or Antabuse]
Answer the following questions about everyone's favorite Legendre polynomial: the second Legendre polynomial. For 10 points each:
This specific entity’s shape comes from the second Legendre polynomial. Unusually for its kind of object, it only has two opposing lobes, rather than four.
Setting the second Legendre polynomial equal to zero and solving for theta gives the "magic angle" at which samples are spun in the solid-state form of this technique. In this technique, peaks are split by J-coupling.
By defining theta as the angle with respect to the director, this quantity for a liquid crystal is defined as one-half the average of the second Legendre polynomial.
d-sub-z squared orbital [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
NMR [or nuclear magnetic resonance]
order parameter [prompt on order]
An example of the "encrustation" form of this phenomenon occurs after azurite is encrusted by malachite, and the azurite dissolves, leaving behind malachite in the form of azurite. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which a mineral appears different because it has a crystal habit that is different from its naturally-occurring shape.
Non-pseudomorphic malachite has a crystal habit that is mammillary, which is essentially a larger form of this other habit. Goethite has this habit whose name is from the Greek for "grapes", which is formed by radially depositing material around a nucleus.
Perhaps the most common example of pseudomorphy is the intraconversion of aragonite to this mineral and vice versa, which defines the value of "3" on the Mohs hardness scale.
pseudomorphy [accept word forms]
botryoidal [or botryoid]
calcite
Name the following things related to flow in cylindrical pipes, for 10 points each:
The Hagen-Poiseuille equation gives the change in this quantity for an incompressible and laminar flow in a cylindrical pipe. Head loss is a change in this quantity that occurs due to friction.
When deriving the Hagen-Poiseuille equation, one first obtains an expression for the velocity profile as a function of radius, which has this shape.
Flow in a pipe with a non-cylindrical cross section can be approximated as flow in a cylindrical pipe by defining the hydraulic diameter. Give the formula for the hydraulic diameter in terms of the area, A, and perimeter, P, of the cross-section.
pressure
parabolic [or parabola]
4 times A over P [or 4A divided by P]
Nucleophiles described by this term preferentially add 1,2 to alpha, beta unsaturated carbonyls. For 10 points each:
Give this term that also names a property equal to one half the difference of the ionization energy and electron affinity. It is used to describe, small, densely charged ions.
Pearson hard-soft acid base theory is not as useful as this other acid-base theory which defines acids as proton donors and bases as proton acceptors
According to HSAB, the hardest base is the anion of this element. It’s 19 isotope is used for NMR and adding 3 atoms of it to acetic acid causes a sharp increase in acidity due to an inductive effect.
hard
Bronsted-Lowry
fluorine [or fluoride or F-]
Answer some questions about light interference, for 10 points each.
This scientist demonstrated that light interfered with itself by performing an experiment in which light passed through a pair of slits.
The dark fringes in Young’s patterns occurred because this quantity differed by pi over two for the two interacting light waves, resulting in destructive interference.
Interference also results in this near-field diffraction effect where an image of the grating repeats periodically; the resulting diffraction pattern is sometimes as known as its namesake “carpet.”
Thomas Young
phase
Talbot effect [accept Talbot carpet]
This law arises as a solution of the BGK equation. For 10 points:
Name this equation that relates the attenuation of light in a medium to its molar extinction coefficient, concentration, and path length.
Beer’s law is commonly applied in this type of spectroscopy, which uses the empirical Woodward-Fieser rules to predict the wavelength of maximum absorption. This technique is especially useful for conjugated molecules.
UV-vis spectrophotometers can be used to determine the optical density of a cell culture by passing light of this wavelength, in nanometers, through the sample.
Beer-Lambert law
Uv-vis spectroscopy [or Ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy]
600 nm [accept OD600]
Answer some questions about circuit analysis. For 10 points each:
One way of solving a circuit is to set up a system of equations from this man’s loop and junction rule.
These TWO [emphasize] component oscillating circuits alternate storing energy in an electric field and a magnetic field. They are frequently analogized to water sloshing back and forth in a bucket.
This technique in electrical engineering approximates nonlinear devices with linear equations by considering the DC bias point and an AC signal of small amplitude.
Augustus Kirchoff
LC circuit [or inductor-capacitor circuits]
small signal model
This phenomenon results from the Pauli exclusion principle preventing fermions from occupying the same state. For 10 points each:
Identify this phenomenon that results from the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, since the spread of fermions’ momenta will increase as they are compressed into smaller space. It gives rise to the Chandrasekhar limit.
Beyond the Chandrasekhar limit, these degenerate dwarf stars collapse into neutron stars or black holes.
This is the heavier of the two elements that comprise most white dwarfs since it’s an end product of the triple-alpha process. A rarer type of massive white dwarf consists primarily of this element, neon, and magnesium.
electron degeneracy pressure [prompt on partial answer]
white dwarf [or white dwarves]
oxygen [or O] (the other of the two elements is carbon)
It provides extremely even illumination by providing a perfectly defocused image of the light source to the eyepiece. For 10 points each:
Identify this method of illumination, named for a German, which requires field and condenser diaphragms.
Köhler illumination is commonly used in modern examples of these devices, whose use was pioneered by Antony van Leeuwenhoek [“LAY-von-hoke”].
A criterion named for this English physicist characterizes the minimum resolvable detail for optical microscopes. With James Jeans, this man attempted to describe the electromagnetic spectrum of a black body.
Köhler Illumination
optical microscopes [or light microscopes]
Lord Rayleigh [accept John William Strutt]
This quantity equals the magnitude of the rate of change of the unit tangent vector, which for a circle is the reciprocal of the radius. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that denotes the extent to which a geometric object deviates from straightness.
Curvature is expressed as a tensor for the Riemannian type of these objects. These objects are locally Euclidean, so a neighborhood on an n-dimensional one is homeomorphic to n-dimensional Euclidean space.
The Ambrose-Singer theorem relates the curvature form of a connection on a manifold to this concept, the discrepancy caused by parallel transport on a closed loop.
curvature
manifold
holonomy
Answer some questions about ferrocene, for 10 points each.
Ferrocene consists of two cyclopentadienyl rings sandwiching an atom of this element.
Acetic anhydride and phosphoric acid can be used to perform this reaction on ferrocene. Typically, aluminum trichloride is used in this electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction, which has alkylation and acetylation versions.
Ligands like diphenylphosphinoferrocene [“di-fenyl-phosphino-ferrocene”] are used in this palladium crosscoupling reaction between amines and aryl halides.
Iron [or Fe]
Friedel-Crafts alkylation or acylation
Buchwald-Hartwig reaction
Potassium cyan-oplatinate becomes an electrical insulator due to the occurrence of this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon which can be considered the analogue of the Jahn-Teller distortion for 1D crystals.
A polymer of this simplest alkyne is an insulator in its pure form due to a Peierls distortion. This compound is burned in the presence of oxygen to produce a flame for welding.
Landau and Peierls argued that this two-dimensional lattice of carbon atoms could not exist because it would melt due to thermal fluctuations. This allotrope was isolated with the use of scotch tape.
Peierls distortion [or Peierls transition]
acetylene [accept ethyne]
graphene
When a model leaves out relevant factors, it has the “omitted variable” type of this problem. For 10 points each:
Identify this problem in statistical research, which occurs when an estimator consistently differs from the expected value. It also refers to a partial perspective, often said to be liberal for news media.
This technique attempts to eliminate selection bias by observing the effect of a treatment on a dependent variable. It compares the values for the variable at two different times: before and after treatment.
Card and Krueger used DID analysis to study effects of minimum wage changes in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The policy change can be considered an example of this kind of experiment, in which the treatment and conditions are not controlled by researchers, but approximate randomization.
bias
difference in differences analysis [or DID analysis]
natural experiment
The fifth member of this program had the longest Earth observation satellite mission in history, at nearly thirty years. For 10 points each:
Name this program, begun in 1972, for satellite imaging of Earth. Its eighth and most recent satellite, launched in 2013, measures 11 spectral bands with a repeat cycle of 16 days.
Landsat has been a crucial source of free data in this field focused on using measurements from a distance to gather information. Important technologies in this field include Lidar and aerial photography.
Many remote sensing vegetation indices, like NDVI, compare bands in the visible range and the near part of this region of the electromagnetic spectrum with a somewhat longer wavelength. It is used in thermal imaging.
Landsat
remote sensing
infrared radiation
Chytridiomycosis is causing elevated extinction rates among members of this class. For 10 points each:
Name this vertebrate class that includes the orders Anura and Caudata, as well as the caecilians [seh-SEE-lee-uns]. Many of its members respire in part through their constantly damp skin and have aquatic larvae.
Like horseshoe crabs, many amphibians exhibit this behavior in which the male grasps the female with his front legs, then fertilizes eggs once they are released.
Since finding a mate can be a pain, hybrid females of some frogs and salamanders may undergo this mode of asexual reproduction in which unfertilized eggs develop into newborns.
Amphibians
amplexus
parthenogenesis
A form of this quantity is measured in the Vickers test. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is 10 for diamond on the non-linear Mohs scale.
Hardness measurements must consider the negative ratio of transverse to axial strain, which is named for this French physicist. The Laplace equation results when the right side of his namesake equation is zero.
Calculations suggest that this carbon allotrope, also known as hexagonal diamond, could be harder than regular diamond; however, defects in samples of this material give it real Mohs hardness values of around 8.
hardness [accept scratch hardness or indentation hardness]
Siméon Denis Poisson
Lonsdaleite
Defensins are among the many peptide families enriched in this amino acid, which names a family of proteases that includes caspases. For 10 points each:
Name this amino acid, symbolized C, whose thiol side chain allows them to form disulfide bonds.
The namesake metal of this structural motif coordinates with two cysteines and two histidines. Sangamo Biosciences uses nucleases fused with this kind of DNA-binding domain to engineer HIV resistance in T cells.
Sangamo’s zinc finger nucleases edit this gene, which encodes a chemokine receptor that HIV uses to infect immune cells. A 32-base pair deletion in this gene confers resistance to many forms of HIV.
cysteine
zinc fingers [accept zinc finger nucleases or ZFNs]
CCR5 [or C-C chemokine receptor type 5; or CD195]
Pickering emulsions can be stabilized by the addition of these particles. For 10 points each:
Name these nanoparticles with two different surfaces that can undergo different chemical reactions.
Instead of solid particles, classical emulsions can be stabilized by these molecules, such as sodium dodecyl sulfate, which can aggregate to form micelles.
Surfactants can decrease this property at a liquid-gas interface. This property is responsible for the formation of a meniscus.
Janus particles
surfactants [or detergents]
surface tension
Indicators of this substance at this location include recurring slope lineae that grow during warm seasons. For 10 points each:
Name this substance which was reported near Mount Sharp in 2015. It may have created Peace Vallis.
The reports of water on Mars come from Curiosity, which is exploring this crater on Mars. Three terrain types meet at its Glenelg site, and it may have been the location of a freshwater lake.
Part of Curiosity’s goal is to study the cycling of this molecule, which accumulates in dry ice caps on Mars’s poles and causes a greenhouse effect like it does on Earth.
liquid water on Mars [accept “brine” in place of “water”; prompt on just “water” by asking “where is the water?”]
Gale crater
carbon dioxide [or CO2]
The Cartesian product performed on these objects is analogous to multiplication. For 10 points each:
Identify these collections of objects in mathematics. They’re called null if they have no members.
After independently discovering Russell’s paradox, this man developed the first axiomatic set theory. He proved and sometimes names a theorem stating that every set can be arranged so that each subset has a least element.
Zermelo improved on his proof by using a “chain” defined by this mathematician, who also names a partition of sets such that all elements of one set are less than all elements of the other.
sets
Ernst Zermelo (the theorem is the well-ordering theorem)
Richard Dedekind [accept Dedekind cut]
Craig Gentry invented the first cryptosystem with this property using bootstrapping. For 10 points each:
Name this property a cryptosystem has when operations can be carried out in ciphertext and decrypted, with the same result as if the operations had been performed in plaintext.
Textbook-style RSA is homomorphic in this operation. This is a trapdoor function when done on large primes, since it’s easier than factoring the product of those primes. It is not commutative for matrices.
RSA was one of the first usable cryptosystems of this type, in which anyone can encrypt a message, but decryption requires private information usually held by the message’s recipient.
fully homomorphic
multiplication [accept word forms]
public-key cryptosystem
A major part of taphonomy is the study of the formation of these things. For 10 points each:
Name these objects which can be produced through means such as permineralization or casting and molding. The index types of these objects are used to define geological periods.
Most major animal phyla appeared during this event in the first period of the Paleozoic. Stephen Jay Gould and Simon Conway Morris disputed interpretations of Burgess Shale fossils like Opabinia from this event.
The Cambrian explosion wiped out this broad class of frond-like, sessile organisms like Charnia and Dickinsonia. Many fossils from this group come from the Doushantuo Formation.
fossils
Cambrian explosion [or Cambrian radiation; prompt on partial answer]
Ediacaran biota [or Ediacaran fauna]
This model assumes that electrons’ behavior may be treated classically and that they accumulate negligible momentum between collisions. For 10 points each:
Name this model of the behavior of electrons within a solid material. It can be used to explain Ohm’s Law.
Arnold Sommerfeld, who reconciled the Drude model with fermion statistics, is better known for introducing this coupling constant of the electromagnetic force.
The fine structure constant can be expressed as the product of the vacuum permeability and this constant divided by twice the Von Klitzing constant. This quantity is roughly three hundred million meters per second.
Drude model [or Drude-Sommerfeld model]
fine structure constant [prompt on α or alpha; do not prompt on “Sommerfeld’s constant” because that’s just being facetious]
speed of light in a vacuum [accept c]
Answer some questions about Grubbs’ catalyst, for 10 points each:
Grubbs’ catalyst is commonly used to perform metathesis on these compounds which contain a carbon-carbon double bond.
The initiation rate of the Grubbs catalyst can be increased by using derivatives of this compound as ligand. This compound can be considered as a benzene with one C-H unit replaced by a nitrogen atom.
Grubb’s catalyst can be used to form these interlocked structures via a “clipping” mechanism. These structures consist of a macrocycle component wrapped around an acyclic axle and are used in molecular motors.
alkenes [or olefins]
pyridine
rotaxane
The graminearum [“grah-min-ee-AY-rum”] species of this genus causes a namesake head blight in grasses like barley, in which kernels shrivel and are contaminated with vomitoxin. For 10 points each:
Name this model genus of ascomycete fungal plant pathogens. Its oxysporum complex is an endophyte that caused Panama disease in bananas.
This staple grass crop affected by Fusarium is bred with rye to make triticale. It has varieties like emmer and Einkorn, and was the subject of Norman Borlaug’s breeding efforts in Mexico.
Fusarium can be countered by plant immune compounds like this phenolic acid, which triggers systemic acquired resistance and can be acetylated to form aspirin. It is common in willow bark.
Fusarium [prompt on “Gibberella”]
wheat [or Triticum]
salicylic acid [or salicylate; or 2-hydroxybenzoic acid]
The oxidative phase of this pathway generates two NADPH molecules, which inhibit glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, the rate-limiting enzyme. For 10 points each:
Name this pathway that oxidizes glucose to make sugars used in nucleic acid and amino acid synthesis.
The pentose phosphate pathway is parallel to this other ancient glucose-oxidizing pathway, which yields pyruvate and two net ATP.
The intermediate DHAP in the pentose phosphate pathway is also part of the biosynthesis of this three-carbon triol. Besides forming the backbone of many phospholipids, it also catalyzes the synthesis of formic acid from oxalic acid.
pentose phosphate pathway [or hexose monophosphate pathway/shunt, or phosphogluconate pathway/shunt]
glycolysis
glycerol [or glycerine]
Many members of a working group on this period proposed that it started with the Trinity test on July 16, 1945. For 10 points each:
Name this epoch proposed by Paul Crutzen and Eugene Stoermer, characterized by increasing dominance of human activity in biological and geological processes.
Those seeking to legitimize the Anthropocene seek a definition in terms of this field concerned with rock layering. Its foundations were laid by three principles of Nicholas Steno.
Other evidence marshalled in favor of the Anthropocene is the increase in carbon dioxide shown in cores of this material often taken from accumulated precipitation in Antarctica, Greenland, or mountain glaciers.
Anthropocene
stratigraphy
ice [accept ice cores]
This process gives rise to Stokes and Anti-Stokes lines, and it occurs much less frequently than Rayleigh scattering. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of scattering where a molecule absorbs a photon, enters a virtual excited state, and re-emits it.
For a molecule to be vibrationally Raman-active, this quantity, which is symbolized alpha, must change during a vibration.
Unlike Rayleigh scattering, Raman scattering is an example of this type of process, where the kinetic energy of the incident particle is not conserved. Collisions of this type have coefficients of restitution less than one.
Raman scattering
polarisability (yes, that’s a BRITISH spelling from Ewan)
inelastic
Answer some questions about protecting groups, for 10 points each.
Alcohols are commonly protected by groups such as TBDMS, which contains an atom of this element. This element stabilizes carbanions α [“alpha”] to it.
Benzaldehyde and acetone are often used as protecting groups for this general class of molecules, which includes glucose and galactose.
In this reaction, a carbon can be removed from a monosaccharide by first converting the terminal aldehyde to a carboxylic acid before adding iron acetate and hydrogen peroxide. Glucose can be converted to arabinose through it.
silicon [or Si]
sugars [accept monosaccharides; accept carbohydrates]
Ruff degradation
Receptors for them in solution often use urea or amide-based motifs. For 10 points each:
Name these substances such as chloride and bromide, which are contrasted with positively charged cations.
This series, named for a German chemist, ranks anions in order of hydrophilicity. Also known as the lyotropic series, it was discovered while investigating their ability to salt out proteins.
This trigonal planar anion appears near the bottom of the Hofmeister series. This anion is found with a potassium counterion in saltpeter.
anions
Hofmeister Series
Nitrate [accept NO3-]
A theorem named for this scientist states that any sufficiently smooth rapidly-decaying vector field can be expressed as the sum of solenoidal and irrotational components. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist who also developed a set of coils which give a highly uniform magnetic field.
These fields are examples of irrotational fields since they are curl-free. Gauss’ law relates their divergence to the charge density and the vacuum permittivity.
This quantity, which is equal to the cross product of the electric and magnetic field vectors, represents the directional energy flux density of an electromagnetic field.
Hermann von Helmholtz
electric fields
Poynting vector
Answer some questions about the illustrious Kruskal brothers, for 10 points each:
With W. Allen Wallis, William Kruskal developed a nonparametric version of this technique developed by Ronald Fisher. This method uses F-tests to consider whether three or more means are unequal.
The inventor of Kruskal’s algorithm, Joseph Kruskal, pioneered multidimensional scaling, which takes an input matrix of these values between sample points. The Euclidean function of this kind, applied to two points, gives the length of the line segment connecting them.
Martin Kruskal worked with Norman Zabusky to develop the theory of solitons by studying this doubly eponymous non-linear PDE used to model waves in shallow water.
ANOVA [or analysis of variance]
distances
Korteweg-de Vries equation [or KdV equation]
Brainbow uses this enzyme to cause different fluorescent proteins to be expressed in neighboring neurons. For 10 points each:
Name this tyrosine recombinase derived from the P1 bacteriophage. It causes site-specific recombination at LoxP sites, allowing gene deletion, translocation, or inversion.
Cre-Lox recombination has been most used in this small rodent model organism, which Rudolf Jaenisch made the first animal to be genetically modified. Many lines of them are bred at Jackson Laboratory.
Like other temperate phages, the P1 phage is capable of undergoing both of these two reproductive cycles. In one, the viral genome is incorporated into the host, while in the other, the virus replicates separately.
Cre recombinase
house mouse [or Mus musculus; or Mus]
lytic cycle and lysogenic cycle [both required; prompt on partial answer; accept word forms like lysis or lysogen]
The resonances of their “surface” variety can be used to probe a variety of properties of nanoparticles. For 10 points each:
Name these quasiparticles, the collective oscillations of a group of delocalized electrons.
Plasmons can couple to these particles to form polaritons. These particles scatter off electrons in the Compton effect.
Tuning the values of plasmon resonant frequencies in materials can create “windows” where materials display this property. This property, contrasted with opacity, is displayed in the visible range by glass and perspex.
plasmons
photons
transparency [accept word forms]
Joe Felsenstein pioneered the development of maximum likelihood methods for constructing these representations. For 10 points each:
Name these diagrams that show hypothesized evolutionary relationships among the taxa or genes on their tips.
This phylogenetic criterion seeks to reduce homoplasy by minimizing character state changes. Felsenstein showed that it exhibits unwanted long-branch attraction under a wide parameter space, called the Felsenstein zone.
One cause of long-branch attraction may be a high value for this parameter, which is assumed to be constant in molecular clocks. This parameter, symbolized mu, is on the order of 10 to the minus 8th power in humans.
phylogenies [or evolutionary trees; or phylogenetic trees; prompt on “cladograms” or “dendrograms”]
maximum parsimony [or MP]
mutation rate [or substitution rate; prompt on partial answer]
The Creutz-Taube complex, consisting of two ruthenium atoms coordinated to five ammonia ligands with a bridging pyrazine ligand, is used to study this process. For 10 points each:
Name this type of redox reaction that occurs through a covalent linkage.
Another compound containing a Group 8 atom in more than one oxidation state is a dye called the “Prussian” version of this colour. This is also the colour of hydrated copper sulfate.
This ore of iron with formula Fe3O4 adopts the spinel structure, and contains iron in +2 and +3 oxidation states.
inner-sphere electron transfer [prompt on “electron transfer”]
blue
Magnetite
The number of vertices of associahedra follow this sequence, which satisfies Segner’s recurrence relation, such that its nth plus one member equals the sum over k of the kth times the n minus kth member. For 10 points each:
Name this sequence whose 200-plus known interpretations, like Dyck paths and polygon triangulations, were catalogued by Richard Stanley. Its nth member is 2n choose n, all divided by n plus one.
The asymptotic growth of Catalan numbers can be derived from Stirling’s approximation to this function. The number of permutations on n elements is this function of n, the product of positive integers up to n.
This extension of the factorial to the complex numbers is given as the integral from zero to infinity of t to the z minus one power, times e to the minus t power, with respect to t.
Catalan numbers
factorial
gamma function
This equation can be derived by applying Newton’s second law to the tension on an ideal string. For 10 points each:
Name this partial differential equation, which states that the second partial derivative of psi with respect to position is equal to one over speed squared times the second partial of psi with respect to time.
Another method of deriving the wave equation imagines an array of weights connected by springs and applies this law, which states that force is equal to the spring constant times displacement.
The general solution to the one dimensional wave equation was discovered by this mathematician, who also formulated the principle of virtual work. His namesake operator is represented by a box.
wave equation
Hooke’s law
Jean le Rond d’Alembert
Much of this gas is produced through acetic acid fermentation or hydrogen oxidation in wetlands and rice paddies. For 10 points each:
Name this greenhouse gas, which is 25 times more potent per unit weight than carbon dioxide. It has formula CH4.
This common method of tracking atmospheric gas fluxes in turbulent environments uses networks of towers to compute mean air density and deviations in mixing ratio and vertical wind speed.
Eddy covariance can measure water vapor entering the atmosphere through these two processes, sometimes denoted by a compound word. They represent all water loss to the atmosphere from aquatic and terrestrial environments, including plants.
methane
eddy covariance [or eddy correlation; prompt on eddy flux]
evaporation and transpiration [or evapotranspiration; accept word forms; prompt on partial answer]
The second of these quantities decreases when a transition metal ion forms a complex with ligands in the nephelauxetic effect. For 10 points each:
Name this set of 3 quantities, denoted A, B and C, that describe electrostatic repulsion in multielectron atoms. The B one scales both axes of a Tanabe-Sugano diagram.
Tanabe-Sugano diagrams depict the electron configuration of these orbitals. They can be divided into eg [“e-sub-g”] and t2g [“t-2g”] sets. These orbitals can hold 10 electrons and their angular momentum quantum number, l, is 2.
Tanabe-Sugano diagrams are to predict the absorptions of molecules with this geometry, in which an atom is surrounded by six ligands.
Racah parameters
d orbitals
octahedral
Software tools like TopHat are used to identify alternative splice sites from the data output from this technology. For 10 points each:
Name this transcriptomic technology that uses read counts from next-generation sequencing to evaluate precise gene expression levels in tissue with better accuracy and coverage than microarrays or SAGE.
When targeting coding RNAs, RNA-Seq library construction often relies on capture through a tail on mRNAs consisting entirely of this nitrogenous base, which binds with thymine or uracil.
Cytoplasmic polyadenylation plays a part in the activation of these cells, whose zona pellucida hardens in a cortical reaction with the acrosome of another cell.
RNA-Seq [or RNA sequencing; or whole-transcriptome shotgun sequencing]
adenine [prompt on “A”]
egg cells [or ova; or ovum]
Power laws of the form “f of x equals a times x to the b” are dubiously said to be ubiquitous in science. Answer some things about them, for 10 points each:
The scale invariance displayed by power laws is related to the self-similarity of these mathematical objects whose Hausdorff dimension is often greater than their topological dimension. An example is the Mandelbrot set.
Zipf’s law was made to describe the inverse proportionality of these quantities with rank in a corpus. For a hapax legomenon, this quantity is equivalent to one.
Bak et al.’s work on power laws in self-organized criticality used a sandpile model, one of these discrete systems. These systems, like Conway’s Game of Life, are the subject of Stephen Wolfram’s A New Kind of Science.
fractals
word frequency [accept answers denoting the number of times a word appears in a text]
cellular automata [or cellular automaton]
Ruminants have a four-compartment version of this organ, where anaerobic bacteria help them break cellulose into volatile fatty acids. For 10 points each:
Name this organ, where gastric acid and enzymes like pepsin are released to aid in digestion.
If you want to know what bacteria are in your stomach, you’ll likely sequence these conserved nucleic acids which Woese and Fox used to discover Archaea. Their 3-prime end has the anti-Shine-Dalgarno sequence.
For vertebrate herbivores, digestion can be made harder by these astringent polyphenols that precipitate proteins. They come in condensed and hydrolyzable types, are found in red wine, and can make water turn brown.
stomach
16S rRNA [or 16S ribosomal RNA; or 16 Svedberg unit ribosomal ribonucleic acid; prompt on partial answer]
tannins
If you’re building an app that pulls dynamically updating data from a site like Facebook or Flickr, you might use an open kind of these tools. For 10 points each:
Name this set of protocols that applications use to communicate with each other.
APIs on the web are often used to send requests using this protocol, the basis for data communication on the web. Its name is usually seen before the colon-slash-slash in URLs.
Oracle sued Google in part for infringing on the structure, sequence, and organization of the API for this object-oriented language with a “write once, run anywhere” design.
application programming interface [or API]
Hypertext Transfer Protocol [or HTTP]
Java
Give some facts about the cell cycle, for 10 points each:
This group of conserved serine-threonine kinases binds to a namesake family of partners. They regulate the cell cycle through inhibitory phosphorylation of target substrates.
Cyclin E binds Cdk2 to transition from G1 phase to S phase, where this process occurs. The Meselson-Stahl experiment proved it is semiconservative.
One way of distinguishing cells in different phases of the cell cycle uses a propidium iodide stain and this technique. FACS is a type of this technique, which is combined with FISH to measure telomere length.
cyclin-dependent kinases [or CDKs]
DNA replication
flow cytometry
Deposits of this resource are found with sandstone in the Uintah Basin in Utah. For 10 points each:
Identify this naturally occurring form of petroleum that is extracted en masse from oil sands like the ones near the Athabasca. The largest natural deposit of this substance is found in a lake in Trinidad and Tobago.
The Athabasca oil sands in this prairie province with capital Edmonton are a major source of bitumen.
A foehn wind named for these Native American peoples originates in the mountains and sweeps across Alberta, much of the prairies, and the Great Plains. These Pacific Northwest peoples live along the lower Columbia river.
asphalt [or bitumen; or pitch; prompt on “tar”]
Alberta
Chinook
The cyclopentadienyl cation and cyclobutadiene are textbook examples of molecules with this property. For 10 points each:
Name this destabilizing property exhibited by molecules with 4n pi electrons.
In this form of spectroscopy, aromatic and antiaromatic compounds exhibit a ring current, altering their expected chemical shifts. Carbon-13 and protons are the nuclei most commonly studied with this technique.
When aromatic compounds with a benzyl group, like toluene, are subjected to mass spectrometry they frequently rearrange to this seven-membered aromatic ring.
antiaromatic [do not accept or prompt on “aromatic” or “nonaromatic”]
NMR spectroscopy [or Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy]
tropylium cation [prompt on “[C7H7] +”]
According to Weinberg-Witten theory, this particle can not be a composite particle in a QFT. For 10 points each:
Name this spin-2 gauge boson that has yet to be discovered. This particle mediates the weakest of the four fundamental forces.
The supersymmetric partner of the graviton, the gravitino, is a candidate for this “eerie” substance proposed to account for the missing mass of galaxies.
The source of gravitation is this quantity that describes the density and flux of energy and momentum in spacetime. It is multiplied by 8 pi G over c^4 on the right side of Einstein’s field equation.
graviton
dark matter
stress-energy tensor [or stress-energy-momentum tensor or energy-momentum tensor]
Undesired Passerini products can be generated from a side-reaction when performing this reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this four-component reaction that utilizes a carboxylic acid, aldehyde, amine and isocyanate to synthesize amides. It’s useful for generating diverse libraries of compounds.
Amides are derivatives of this functional group that consists of a carbonyl carbon bonded to an alcohol.
In the Hofmann rearrangement, this element and NaOH can be used to convert amides to primary amines. This element can be added to an alkene radically with NBS and gives M and M+2 peaks of the same size on a mass spec.
Ugi reaction
carboxylic acid
Bromine
Avastin was one of the first drugs approved to inhibit this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which new blood vessels are formed from pre-existing ones. Tumors use this process to boost their growth, leading Judah Folkman to propose that inhibiting it could starve tumors.
Two 2010 Nature papers described mechanisms of angiogenesis in these most common and aggressive of malignant brain tumors, whose primary and secondary forms are often distinguished by IDH1 mutations.
Besides angiogenesis, another one of “The Hallmarks of Cancer” proposed by Hanahan and Weinberg is the ability of cancer cells to evade this process of programmed cell death.
angiogenesis
glioblastoma multiforme [or GBM; or grade IV astrocytoma]
apoptosis
The work done by this type of process is equal to minus n R T times the natural log of final volume over initial volume. For 10 points each:
Name this type of process that occurs as a series of infinitesimal changes, so no energy is dissipated as heat.
This paradox states that an irreversible process cannot arise from time-symmetric dynamics. In other words, the second law of thermodynamics prefers one direction of time.
Loschmidt’s paradox was proposed as a criticism of this man’s H-theorem. With James Maxwell, he names the distribution of particle speeds in an ideal gas.
reversible process
Loschmidt’s paradox
Ludwig Boltzmann
Answer some questions about everyone’s favorite field of geochemistry: organic geochemistry. For 10 points each:
Alfred Treibs, the father of the field, linked geology to biochemistry by isolating these molecules from petroleum. One of these planar macrocycles is coordinated to iron in heme, and they consist of four pyrrole rings.
Most geochemical dating is done with this isotope with a halflife of roughly 5700 years. It is produced when nitrogen in the atmosphere reacts with cosmic rays.
This is the term given to the mixture of insoluble organic compounds present in many sedimentary rocks. When this substance is prevalent in oil shales, hydrocarbons can be extracted.
porphyrins
carbon-14
kerogen
These explosions can briefly outshine an entire galaxy. For 10 points each:
Name these massive explosions of giant stars.
Supernovas are classified into Type I and Type II varieties based on spectra and readouts of these graphs. Type I supernovae exhibit sharp, early maxima on them, while Type II ones plateau before declining.
Type II supernovae aren’t observed in these types of galaxies since they’re primarily composed of Population II stars. The Faber-Jackson relation applies to these galaxies found on the left of a traditional tuning fork diagram.
supernovas [or supernovae]
light curves [specific answer required; prompt on less specific answers, like “graphs of luminosity”]
elliptical galaxies
Three-dimensional structures of axonal bundles can be reconstructed using this technique, which is used in tractographic analyses in the Human Connectome Project. For 10 points each:
Name this imaging method which tracks the random movement and collisions of water molecules to sense the structure of tissue.
Diffusion MRI is most commonly used in this kind of brain tissue, which consists mostly of myelinated axons and glial cells, unlike gray matter.
In this disorder, the myelin sheaths in white matter are destroyed by inflammation. Charcot described nystagmus, intention tremor, and scanning speech as a namesake “triad” of this disease.
diffusion MRI [or diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI); accept subtypes like diffusion tensor imaging (or DTI), diffusion weighted imaging (or DWI), or diffusion functional magnetic resonance imaging (or DfMRI, or diffusion fMRI), diffusion spectrum imaging (or DSI)]
white matter
multiple sclerosis [or MS]
This scientist came up with the names of hydrogen and oxygen. For 10 points each:
Identify this French “father of modern chemistry” who stated the law of conservation of mass.
Lavoisier’s isolation of oxygen put the final nail in the coffin for the Johann Joachim Becher’s idea that this substance, a form of fiery air, caused combustion reactions.
Lavoisier built on the work of this other scientist, who termed the oxygen he isolated in a jar “dephlogisticated air” since he was determined to defend phlogiston theory.
Antoine Lavoisier
phlogiston
Joseph Priestley
These structures are extremely important in modeling networks of actors and relationships. For 10 points each:
Identify these mathematical structures, which consist of vertices and the edges that connect them.
This term refers to a subgraph of a graph in which each vertex within the subgraph are adjacent to each other vertex. Finding the maximum size of one of these complete subgraphs is a common problem.
Claude Berge introduced this term to refer to graphs in which, for each induced subgraph, the chromatic number of that subgraph equals the size of the largest clique within that subgraph.
graphs
clique [if they answer complete subgraph before the bonus is read, prompt and read the whole thing]
perfect graphs
The Colebrook equation is the most common method of calculating this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this constant of proportionality that is used to determine the head loss along a length of pipe. It is four times a similar quantity named for Fanning.
On a Moody diagram, the Darcy friction factor is plotted against this other dimensionless quantity.
The Reynolds number can be calculated as the ratio of velocity times length to this quantity. This quantity, which is the material’s resistance to flow, is time-dependent in thixotropic materials.
Darcy friction factor [accept friction factor]
Reynolds number [accept Re]
viscosity
This variable is dimensionless and only changes with the size of the system. For 10 points each:
Identify this variable, which is the thermodynamic conjugate of the chemical potential of a system. This variable is typically measured in moles.
This equation relates the infinitesimal change in chemical potential for a given number of particles to the change in a system’s pressure and temperature.
The Gibbs-Duhem equation can be used to evaluate these values for volatile liquid mixtures. These dimensionless values, which account for non-ideal behavior, can be found using the Debye-Huckel equation.
number of particles [or clear equivalents like number of species, atoms, etc; prompt on n]
Gibbs-Duhem equation
activity coefficients
This phenomenon has caused spinal deformities to proliferate among Isle Royale wolves. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which individuals produce offspring with closely related individuals, as in incest. It often occurs in small populations and can promote deleterious recessive traits.
According to Wikipedia, this man’s “parents were first cousins, an interesting fact in light of his research on inbreeding.” This Modern Synthesis geneticist also introduced the idea of isolation by distance, and applied shifting balance theory to his concept of fitness landscapes.
Wright’s three F-statistics quantify inbreeding and population structure by comparing expected and observed values of this quantity, which equals 2pq in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.
inbreeding [accept word forms]
Sewall Green Wright
heterozygosity [or frequency of heterozygotes; accept other answers denoting the proportion of heterozygotes]
The expectation value of a function is equal to the integral of its operator sandwiched between two instances of this function. For 10 points each:
Name this function that gives the probability amplitude of a system, so its square gives the probability density of finding a particle at a particular location. Directly observing the system leads to its collapse.
Because the wave function can take on complex values, when calculating the expectation value of an operator one must use this form of the wavefunction, denoted by an asterisk, in which all of the i’s [“eyes”] have been changed to -i’s [“minus eyes”].
Operators that yield real expectation values are given this name and can be represented square matrices that are equal to their own conjugate transpose.
wave function
its complex conjugate
Hermitian
The Russian formulator of this concept used the example of burying beetles as an example of it and emphasized it as an example of how organisms struggle against the environment. For 10 points each:
Identify this two-word term used to refer to a mode of natural cooperation.
Peter Kropotkin, the formulator of mutual aid, hypothesized that it was the most important factor in this natural process which Darwin argued was driven by natural selection.
Evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould objected to Kropotkin’s use of this fallacy attacked in G.E. Moore’s Principia Ethica as a refutation of Social Darwinism.
mutual aid
evolution
naturalistic fallacy
The iron-nickel alloy Invar has an unusually low value for this quantity because it passes through a frustrated ferromagnetic state. For 10 points each:
Name this ratio of the change in the length of a material to the temperature change in Kelvin.
For crystalline solids, an analogous property is this quantity, denoted gamma, which describes the effect of changing the volume of a crystal on its vibrational properties.
For many materials, alpha is inversely proportional to this value, which is also known as the freezing point. The latent heat of fusion is the energy required to change a solid to a liquid at this point.
alpha or coefficient of thermal expansion
Gruneisen parameter
melting point
You are a rockstar ninja programmer in a startup billed as Uber, but for artisanal cat toys. Answer some questions about machine learning algorithms you might use, for 10 points each:
This popular kind of supervised learning algorithm uses training data to classify new inputs among two or more categories. Unlike perceptrons, it’s guaranteed to find the separating hyperplane with maximal margin.
This kind of unsupervised algorithm picks groups so that objects within a group are more similar to each other than those in other groups. An example is the k-means type.
An important class of supervised algorithms perform this task of modelling a response variable in terms of one or more explanatory variables. The method of least squares is used for this task.
support vector machines [or SVMs; or support vector networks; or SVNs]
clustering [or cluster analysis]
regression
Answer some non-questions that have something to do with metabolizing drugs, for 10 points each:
A set of S-transferases catalyzes the conjugation of this compound to foreign substrates for breakdown. The ratio of the reduced and oxidized disulfide forms of this tripeptide antioxidant may be used to measure toxicity.
The rate at which drugs are excreted is often measured as the clearance of this organ. Filtration, secretion, and reabsorption steps take place in this organ’s nephrons.
The P450 proteins of this type increase the polarity of xenobiotics through a mono-oxygenase reaction. Other proteins of this heme-containing type generate ATP at the end of the electron transport chain.
glutathione [or GSH; or glutathione disulfide; or GSSG]
kidneys
cytochromes
A problem named for this man concerning light-atom interactions describes the response of an atom to an applied harmonic electric field. For 10 points each:
Identify this man who discovered how an oscillatory driving field can cause cyclic behavior in a two-state quantum system.
Rabi’s discovery was built off of this experiment, in which silver atoms sent through a non-homogeneous magnetic field were deflected either up or down by a specific amount, producing two lines on a photographic plate.
The Stern-Gerlach experiment confirmed that atoms possess this intrinsic angular momentum.
Isidor Isaac Rabi
Stern-Gerlach experiment
spin
Intersystem crossing can be represented as a horizontal line from an excited singlet state to an excited triplet state on these diagrams. For 10 points each:
Name these diagrams useful in photochemistry that depict radiative transitions with straight arrows and nonradiative transitions with curly arrows.
This phenomenon can be represented by a straight line from S1 to S0 on a Jablonski diagram. Excited materials can return to the ground state by emitting this form of luminescence, contrasted with phosphorescence.
Singlet and triplet states can be alternatively named with these TWO prefixes. Electron-donating groups on benzene rings direct substitution at these two positions in electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions.
Jablonski diagram
fluorescence
ortho and para [in any order]
The Verneuil process is used to create synthetic gemstones of this mineral. For 10 points each:
Name this aluminum oxide mineral with a Mohs hardness of 9.
When corundum contains chromium it becomes this valuable red gemstone.
In this phenomenon, gemstones exhibit a multi-rayed reflection on their surface when cut en cabochon
corundum
ruby
asterism
Individuals of the mjoebergi and annulipes species of this crab who have a weaker regenerated claw are able to bluff individuals who have a smaller, non-regenerated claw. 
Give the common name of this genus of crabs, which possess a greatly enlarged major claw used to attract females and fight males
 Individuals of the Photuris genus of these organisms mimic the signals of females in the Photinus genus to capture and eat Photinus males. Luciferase acts on luciferin to produce their characteristic yellow bioluminescence. 
Recently molted individuals of the Gonodactylus bredini species of these crustaceans bluff potential opponents by extending their armoured second maxillipeds in a "meral display" to indicate they can attack successfully. The claws of these crustaceans move so fast that they generate cavitation bubbles. 
 fiddler crabs [or: calling crab, Uca] 
fireflies [or: lightning bugs, Lampyridae] 
mantis shrimp [or: stomatopods, Stomatopoda, Unipeltata] 
Four basic postulates describe this process, which was first proposed by Burnet.
Name this mechanism in which only immune cells that are specific to one antigen proliferate.
Clonal selection acts on these immune cells, which include B cells and T cells and also natural killer cells.
 This term roughly describes an uncontrolled release of molecules from immune cells like interleukins and chemokines. This term was applied to the effects of the H5N1 influenza virus.
clonal selection [prompt on: clonal expansion]
lymphocytes
cytokine storm [or: cytokine cascade, hypercytokinemia]
An example of these things proposed to explain the fractional quantum Hall effect is the Laughlin wavefunction for the ground state of a 2DEG. 
 Identify this term from physics that basically means an "educated guess whose validity is based on the accuracy of its predictions."
This physicist developed an ansatz for the spin-1/2 1D Heisenberg model, which is exact for a spin-1/2 chain. This physicist famously computed the nonrelativistic value of the Lamb shift on the train ride home from the Shelter Island Conference and was added by Gamow, in absentia, to a paper written by Alpher and Gamow.
Another ansatz is the BCS ansatz for the ground state of this phenomenon. Materials exhibiting this phenomenon, such as YBCO, lose all electrical resistance.
ansatz
Hans Bethe [or: Hans Albrecht Bethe]
superconductivity [or: word forms]
A simple example of these functions is for the Poisson equation with Dirichlet boundary conditions, in which case it's the reciprocal of the absolute value of x minus x-prime. 
 Name these functions equal to the delta function when acted on by a linear differential operator and satisfying some boundary conditions. Using them and superposition makes it easier for one to solve inhomogeneous differential equations.
A BVP can be reduced to an integral equation named for this person with a Green's function as its kernel. A statement of his namesake "alternative" is: for a m-by-n matrix A and a m-by-1 column vector b, only one of the following holds: A x equals b has one, unique solution; transpose of A y equals zero has a nontrivial solution.
Green's theorem relates this operation around the boundary of a plane region to the double integral of the plane region. This operation evaluates an integral along a curve.
Green's functions
Ivar Fredholm [or: Erik Ivar Fredholm]
line integral [or: path integral, curvilinear integral]
Rudolph Marcus developed this theory by eliminating "arbitrary assumptions" in a previous theory.
Name this theory that accounts for the rates of collisional activation and unimolecular association being energy dependent. It partitions the energy of molecules into fixed and non-fixed components, only the latter of which contribute to the reaction rate.
In the limit of high pressure, RRKM theory reduces to the theory named for these states. During the course of a reaction, these states occur as local energy maxima and typically only exist for a teeny tiny amount of time.
Speaking of teeny tiny amounts of time, what field of chemistry using ultra-short laser pulses was developed by Ahmed Zewail and his colleagues?
RRKM theory [or: Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory; prompt on: RRK theory]
 transition states
femtochemistry
 This physicist wrote the "definitive treatise" The Principles of Statistical Mechanics. 
 Identify this person who names the mass limit at which a neutron star can no longer support itself with J. Robert Oppenheimer and George Volkoff. 
This Belgian physicist first solved Einstein's equations for an inhomogeneous universe in the case of a spherically symmetric dust cloud, a model later worked on by Tolman and Hermann Bondi. He independently solved Einstein's equations for a homogeneous, isotropic, expanding universe. 
Tolman's surface brightness test distinguishes between the predictions of cosmological models by correlating surface brightness with this quantity. Represented Z, it's a measure of how much a spectrum has been shifted to higher wavelengths by the Doppler effect. 
Richard C. Tolman [or: Richard Chace Tolman]
Georges LemaÃ®tre [or: Georges Henri Joseph Ã‰douard LemaÃ®tre] 
Doppler redshift
 Answer the following about microbiological techniques, 
This analyzer can be used to directly count the number of microorganisms by using a small aperture and measuring electrical impedance as microorganisms pass through. A distinct advantage over optical techniques is that it can simultaneously measure concentration and size. 
Microorganisms are often cultured on agar plates, which consist of nutrient agar in this kind of shallow labware. 
Robert Koch developed this method for isolating a single bacterial species. It divides a plate into three sections, then uses an inoculating loop to transfer bacteria clockwise between sections, creating a characteristic pattern after incubation. 
Coulter counter 
Petri dish [or: Petri plate; prompt on: cell-culture dish] 
streaking [or: word forms] 
The Lie derivative of a metric with respect to these vector fields equals zero. 
Name these vector fields that generate a one-parameter group of isometries for a given manifold. 
The zero set of a Killing field is a disjoint union of submanifolds, each with even codimension, that are "totally" this term. This term denotes curves that are the shortest distance between two points in a curved geometry, thus being analogs of straight lines.
This parameter is identically zero along a null geodesic, so one can't use it to parametrize the geodesic. In special relativity, this quantity is the interval measured by a clock in the rest frame of the observer.
Killing vector field
geodesics
 proper time [or: s, ds] 
In the classroom, these things are often studied using Elsasser's "regular" and Goody's "statistical" model.
Name these things that are the basis of several models used to estimate the transmission of electromagnetic radiation through the atmosphere, including HITRAN, LOWTRAN, and MODTRAN. 
This molecule's Herzberg and Schumann-Runge bands are of interest to extraterrestrial atmospheric scientists. Banded iron formations probably formed due to periodic excesses of this molecule during the Proterozoic eon. 
 The Great Oxygen Catastrophe of circa 2.3 billion years ago was caused by these polluting, photosynthetic bacteria, who wiped out all the early anaerobic life on Earth. 
atmospheric absorption bands [or: atmospheric absorption lines; prompt on: "molecular spectra", "atomic spectra"]
oxygen gas [or: O2, dioxygen] 
cyanobacteria [prompt on: blue-green algae, Cyanophyta] 
Answer the following related to Japanese mathematicians whose work has spawned new fields of math,
Shigeru Mukai used just algebraic geometry to show that an abelian variety and its dual have equivalent derived categories of coherent sheaves, which is analogous to this transform. This transform converts a continuous time-domain function to a function in the frequency domain.
 Some problems in representation theory can be solved using combinatorics because Masaki Kashiwara's crystal bases for q equals zero quantum groups can be represented as one of these structures. These objects are termed acyclic when lacking loops from a node back to itself.
Morihiko Saito developed his theory of mixed modules named for this mathematician from the RiemannHilbert correspondence of regular holonomic D-modules and perverse sheaves. His namesake star operator is often studied on complex KÃ¤hler manifolds.
Fourier transform [or: FT]
directed graph [or: digraph, prompt on: graph]
W. V. D. Hodge [or: William Vallance Douglas Hodge]
These n minus one dimensional surfaces are used to study n-dimensional flows in phase space; the set of all points where the flow crosses these things is its namesake's "map". 
Name this stroboscopic view of phase space trajectories that lets one characterize motion into periodic, quasiperiodic, or chaotic based on the presence of a finite number of points, a closed loop, or a lot of irregular and densely packed points.
Quasiperiodic trajectories in 3-dimensional phase space occur on this surface. The phase space of integrable Hamiltonian systems is foliated by invariant examples of these surfaces, which are defined using action-angle coordinates.
Action-angle coordinates can be used when the Hamiltonian of a system is independent of this quantity. It is added as a fourth dimension in special relativity.
PoincarÃ© section [or: PoincarÃ© cross-section, PoincarÃ© surface, PoincarÃ© surface of section; do not accept: "PoincarÃ© map", "PoincarÃ© plane"]
torus [or: tori, toruses]
time [or: t]
The granules of connective tissue mast cells contain this compound, as opposed to the chondroitin-sulfatecontaining granules of mucosal mast cells. 
Name this popular and highly negatively charged anticoagulant that accelerates the reaction of antithrombin III.
Heparin is closely related to heparan sulfate, whose disaccharide backbone is made up of N-acetylglucosamine and glucuronic acid. A polymer of NAG and NAM is a major component of bacterial cell walls that are "positive" for what stain?
Antithrombin III has been called a "suicide trap" by some, because thrombin attempts to cleave the bond between arginine and this amino acid at the reactive site of antithrombin, accidentally creating a stable complex from which they cannot escape. This amino acid is activated by histidine in thrombin's catalytic triad.
heparin
Gram stain
serine [or: ser, S]
This reagent is popularly used to reduce carbon-sulfur bonds to carbon-hydrogen bonds and can be created by using sodium hydroxide as a solvent in which a nickel-aluminum alloy is dissociated. 
Name this compound, a type of nickel, developed as a catalyst for the hydrogenation of vegetable oils.
The activity of Raney nickel for different preparations is tested against beta-naphthol, which is both moieties in this compound that famously exhibits axial chirality.
Care must be taken when using Raney nickel because it can ignite spontaneously when exposed to oxygen, a predilection known by what term? Raney nickel shares this property with many other organometallic reagents.
Raney nickel [or: RaNi, Raney mud; do not accept: "radium nickel"]
BINOL [or: 1,1'-bi-2-naphthol, do not accept: "BINAP"]
pyrophoricity [prompt on: air-sensitive]
 A Markovian approximation and the rotating wave approximation can be used to cast one of these equations "in Lindblad form."
Name these equations that govern the evolution of the reduced density matrix for an open quantum system. The Nakajima-Zwanzig projection operator method is used to derive them in non-Markovian dynamics. 
Master equations often start from the von Neumann equation, in which this constant multiplies the time derivative of the density operator. In the canonical commutation relation, the commutator of position and linear momentum is equal to this constant. 
i h-bar multiplies the partial time derivative of the wave function on the left-hand-side of the time-dependent form of this quantum mechanical equation, which describes the behavior of particles.
quantum master equations
 i h-bar [or: i times the reduced Planck constant] 
Schroedinger wave equation 
The complex logarithm cannot be defined as a unique inverse of the complex exponential function because the complex exponential function has this period.
Name this quantity whose exponential equals one. 
The reciprocal of two pi i appears as a constant in this mathematician's integral formula, which shows that the derivative of an analytic function is always analytic. 
 The exponential of pi i plus one is equal to this value, according to Euler's identity. 
two pi i [do not prompt on partial answers; do not accept multiples] 
Augustin-Louis Cauchy
zero [or: obvious equivalents] 
Answer the following about the science of describing the shape of a molecule with two or three letters, 
Many, many rotation axes in molecules have C-sub-3 or C-sub-4 symmetry. An axis is C-sub-4 symmetrical when the molecule is rotated how many degrees, at minimum?
Improper rotations, denoted S-sub-n, involve performing a rotation of 360 over n degrees, then performing this transformation through the plane perpendicular to the rotation axis. Chiral molecules cannot belong to the Ssub-n group. 
Walsh diagrams can be used with some symmetry and group theory to predict the weird bond angles in molecules that have two or three of these atoms bound to a central atom. For one well-known molecule, it reveals a bond angle of 107 degrees. 
 ninety degrees [or: pi over two radians; do not accept: "pi over two", "180 degrees", "360 degrees", or other wrong answers]
reflection [or: obvious equivalents] 
 hydrogen [or: H] 
Answer the following about abnormalities that anyone, even Chris Ray, would have in their blood if they'd undergone an autosplenectomy as a result of sickle-cell anemia,
Though normally found only in bone marrow, you'd find red blood cells that do not lack this organelle. Naturally, that complicates counting white blood cells, which normally do have this organelle.
You'd also find abnormal red blood cells described by this word, due to the fact that they have a white band separating inner and outer concentrations of hemoglobin. Wikipedia notes that they also look like Mexican hats.
You'd also find Pappenheimer bodies, which are granules of this substance within red blood cells.
cell nucleus
 target [or: bullseye]
iron [or: Fe]
This quantity is often surveyed using Schlumberger or Wenner electrode arrays, in a method analogous to the four probe method used to measure this quantity for a semiconductor wafer. 
Name this quantity determined by measuring the potential difference between two electrodes and dividing by the current injected into the ground, while accounting for geometry.
 For the Earth, the four probe method measures the apparent resistivity, which one can invert to obtain the actual resistivity using a "damped" method of this name. The "ordinary" method of this name is used for data fitting in linear regression analysis.
The refraction of current paths between layers of resistivity is governed by the ratios of resistivities and the ratios of this function of the angle from normal of the current path. It differs seismic refraction, which is governed by Snell's law.
electrical resistivity [or: apparent resistivity, ground resistivity; do not accept: "resistance"]
least squares
tangent
 Anyone, even Chris Ray, can run GNU and Linux programs on Windows because cygwin provides an API that's compliant with this set of standards maintained by IEEE and The Open Group. 
Name this family of Unix-based standards that's designed to increase compatibility of programs between operating systems by defining a standard set of API, shell, and utility interfaces.
This BSD-derived operating system offered by Apple is a notable example of POSIX compliance. Before 2006, releases of this operating system could only be run on the PowerPC architecture.
PowerPC was a prominent example of this CPU architecture that's also used by ARM processors. In computer science school, students often work with MIPS, another example of this architecture, which has generally has a fixed-length and highly-optimized instruction set.
 POSIX [or: Portable Operating System Interface]
Mac OS X [prompt on: "Mac OS"; according to Wikipedia and no one else on the entire planet, the X is supposed to be pronounced as "ten", so you can take that on the off-chance that someone says it]
RISC [or: reduced instruction-set computer]
At infinity, the spherical form of these functions yields the form of an outgoing wave, for the first kind, and an incoming wave, for the second kind. 
Name these functions that arise in radiation problems. Those "of the first kind" and "of the second kind" are defined as a Bessel function of the first kind plus or minus i times a Bessel function of the second kind, respectively. 
Hankel functions arise in solutions to the homogeneous form of this wave equation for a monochromatic wave. This equation states that the Laplacian of a potential, plus the square of wavenumber times the potential, equals zero.
The wavenumber, k, is usually defined as two pi over this quantity, symbolized lambda.
Hankel functions [prompt on: Bessel functions of the third kind, Weber functions]
Helmholtz equation
 wavelength
 In photography, density is the log of this quantity and is used instead of it because the log of a ratio scale is an interval scale.
Name this quantity that is the reciprocal of transmittance.
For stars, the opacity can be approximated as the density times temperature to the minus 3.5 power, according this person's law.
The Kramers-Kronig integral expression that relates the real and imaginary parts of the electric susceptibility .is derived, in part, from the fact that the polarizability cannot depend on future values of the electric field, a condition known by this term.
opacity [or: kappa]
Hans Kramers
causality
This process was rigorously redefined in Daniel Janzen's seminal article "When is it [this process]?".
Name this process broadly defined as two groups of organisms mutually influencing the evolutionary direction of each other.
A raft of new discoveries in coevolution stem from investigations of this theory of coevolution, developed by John Thompson. This theory proposes three primary drivers of coevolution, two of which are trait remixing and species intermingling in hot and cold spots.
Two rather classic examples of coevolution are the Batesian and Mullerian forms of this phenomenon.
 coevolution
geographic mosaic theory of coevolution [or: GMTC]
mimicry
In this type of fracture a material undergoes necking, after which microvoids form and coalesce in the neck region, eventually forming a fast fracture region at 45 degrees from the plane of tensile load.
Identify this mode of ductile failure, under uniaxial tension, that results in a shear lip is created around the fracture surface and the two structuresÂ—one rough, the other smoothÂ—that give this mode of fracture its name.
In contrast to ductile materials, this type of material undergoes fairly little deformation before fracture, which usually occurs via fast crack propagation along cleavage planes.
Unlike fcc metals, metals with this crystal structure are likely to undergo a ductile-to-brittle transition with decreasing temperature, likely due to interstitial impurities and a temperature-dependent Peierls-Nabarro force. Alpha-iron has this crystal structure.
 cup and cone fracture [or: in any order]
brittle materials
bcc [or: body-centered cubic, cI]
The GOLF, MDI, and VIRGO instruments are used in this branch of study, as are the ground-based instruments BISON, GONG, and IRIS.
Name this branch of study kickstarted by Leighton, et al.'s discovery of the 5-minute oscillations, which were eventually explained by the propagation of sound waves called p-modes
 By confirming the correctness of solar models, helioseismology steered physicists towards the correct solution to discrepancies in the theoretical and observed counts of these particles from the Sun: namely, they can change lepton flavor via a namesake "oscillation".
The GOLF, MDI, and VIRGO instruments are found on this Sun-studying spacecraft, an ESA-NASA collaboration. This spacecraft also studies space weather, like the ACE and TRACE probes.
helioseismology [do not accept: "seismology"]
neutrinos
SOHO [or: Solar and Heliospheric Observatory]
This quantum mechanical approach used in the Hartree-Fock and Ritz methods of quantum chemistry. 
Name this method which finds parameters for a trial wavefunction that minimize the expectation value of the Hamiltonian, in order to find an approximation of the ground state. It requires "excellent physical intuition". 
 The one-electron MO in the HF method is expanded as a linear combinations of these things. They can be occupied by at most two electrons and are often sectioned into s, p, d, and f. 
 In the unrestricted HF method, the spatial part of spin orbitals aren't the same, which can introduce this error in which the wavefunction is no longer an eigenfunction of the total spin. It's detected by checking the expectation of the total spin against S times S plus one, where S is the eigen-number defining the spin multiplicity of the state. 
variational method [or: variational approach]
atomic orbitals [or: AO; prompt on: "orbitals"] 
 spin contamination
Hans Jenny built on the ideas of Vasily Dokuchaev to develop the functional-factorial model of this substance's formation, in which its properties are due to the five state factors of climate, organic activity, relief, parent material, and time. 
Name this substance whose formation is treated as an evolution in more modern theories, such as the theory of Johnson and Watson-Stegner that Jonathan Phillips built on using deterministic chaos theory. 
Perhaps a more familiar topic from soil science is these layers parallel to the soil surface. You might say they're the "alphabet of soils", since soils can be delineated into a subsequence of their O, A, E, B, C, and D types. 
 Low values in Munsell's color system, that is, a dark color, are usually a result of the presence of this substance, which is basically highly decomposed organic matter, i.e. organic carbon. 
soil [do not accept: "dirt", "sediment", "regolith", "residuum"]
soil horizons 
humus
 Paschen's law dictates that the the voltage necessary to create one of these things is the same when the product of gas pressure and electrode separation is the same.
 Identify this phenomenon that occurs when a high electric field causes the electrical breakdown of a neutral gas, inducing a plasma discharge. 
At low pressures, one can induce the formation of a plasma using this frequency band, which is used in microfabrication to form inductively coupled plasmas. Electrical currents oscillating in this frequency band can be radiated by antennas. 
Computer simulations of plasmas often use this scheme, in which particles can move freely but there is a grid; interpolations between particles and grid occur via "shape functions". Many of these simulations use b-splines of order 0, referred to as "clouds". 
electric arc [or: arc discharge; prompt on: electric discharge] 
RF [or: radio frequency; do not accept: "microwave"]
PIC simulations [or: particle-in-cell simulations] 
 The Xenopus animal cap assay was used to show that the essential factor for this process in ventral tissue is vegT mRNA, which activates nodal; for dorsal tissue, this process is regulated by a signal from the Nieuwkoop center. 
Name this process that occurs when factors secreted by vegetal cellsÂ—such as FGF, activin, Vg1, and derriÃ¨reÂ—are introduced to animal cap cells. 
Nodal, Vg1, and activin all bind to a type II serine/threonine kinase receptors, which phosphorylates a type I receptor, which phosphorylates Smad2 at the end containing what functional group? This moiety is attached to the end of proteins and polypeptides, the so-called C-terminus. 
Mesoderm induction occurs while an embryo is undergoing the transformation to this stage of embryonic development. During the transformation to this stage, the three germ layers are formed. 
endo-mesoderm induction [or: meso-endoderm induction; prompt on: induction, mesoderm formation] 
free carboxyl group [or: carboxylic acid, COOH] 
gastrula
The Lorenz gauge fixes the divergence of this quantity plus one over c-squared times the partial time derivative of the electric potential to zero. 
Name this quantity whose curl is defined as the magnetic field.
Covariant formulations of Maxwell's equations require two four-vectors: one is the magnetic potential and scalar potential while the other is a combination of these two quantities. The Lorentz invariant 4-divergence of the four-vector formed by these two quantities is an expression of charge conservation.
Classically, charge conservation is expressed as the divergence of current density plus partial time derivative of charge density being zero, which is an example of what type of general equation that expresses a local conservation law for some quantity.
A [or: magnetic vector potential]
current density and charge density [or: current density and proper charge density, j and rho]
continuity equation
Precursor proteins to acid hydrolases are tagged with mannose-6-phosphate by the Golgi, so they can be transported to this organelle. 
Name these waste disposal organelles.
In order for a soluble proteinÂ—especially chaperonesÂ—to proceed from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi, this retrieval sequence must be cleaved from the C-terminus. It differs from the KKXX sequence found on ER membrane proteins.
This protein covers vesicles involved in retrograde transport, from the cis-Golgi to the ER, thus mediating ER retrieval. This protein is recruited by vesicles with membrane-bound ARF-GTP complexes.
lysosomes
KDEL [or: lys-asp-glu-leu, lysine-aspartic acid-glutamic acid-leucine, HDEL, his-asp-glu-leu, histidineaspartic acid-glutamic acid-leucine]
COPI ("cop one") [or: coat protein I, prompt on: "COP", "coat protein"]
 This type of capillary column was designed to improve the retention of volatile compounds in gas chromatography. 
Name these capillary columns whose inner surface is coated with a solid porous material. 
Liquid columns rely on gas-liquid partitioning while PLOT columns rely on a gas undergoing this process with respect to the porous coating. This process can be modeled using the Freundlich, Langmuir, or BET equations.
The first PLOT columns used a coating of this compound. This compound is produced from bauxite in the Bayer process.
PLOT columns [or: porous layer open tube columns]
adsorption [do not accept: "absorption"]
Al2O3 [or: aluminum oxide, alumina]
With a great deal of generality, a volume of rock undergoing metamorphism follows a clockwise path in this space. 
Name this space that can be divided into distinct regions of metamorphic facies.
This ultra-important Finnish petrologist developed the theory of metamorphic facies. Much of his success in modeling metamorphic rocks was due to his development and use of the ACF diagram.
Eclogite facies are formed in ultra-high pressure and temperatures regimes, most typically when this mafic rock or gabbro, its intrusive equivalent, undergo subduction.
P-T-t space [or: pressure-temperature-time space]
Pentti Eskola
basalt
 Answer the following about the work of Donald Lynden-Bell,
 Lynden-Bell proposed this process, which occurs when a time-dependent potential changes on a timescale comparable to the dynamical timescale. It rapidly establishes a virial equilibrium in two-body collisionless systems and, importantly, allows a change in energy independent of a galaxy's mass.
Lynden-Bell was among the Seven Samurai of astronomy, headed by Sandra Faber, that surveyed 400 elliptical galaxies and found this huge concentration of mass beyond the Milky Way's Zone of Avoidance.
Lynden-Bell more fully developed the theory of accretion disks around these objects first put forth by Salpeter and Zeldovich. These objects are thought to be in the center of most massive galaxies.
violent relaxation
Great Attractor
supermassive black holes [or: SMBHs, gigantic black holes; prompt on: "black holes"]
The first law of thermodynamics requires that the internal energy be this kind of differential. 
Name this type of differential that has a path independent line integral. In 2-dimensions, a differential is of this type if the second derivative of both terms in its total derivative definition are equal.
The differential of the internal energy is the difference between the inexact differentials of these two quantities according to the first law of thermodynamics. These two quantities are typically represented as Q and W.
This Italian scientist introduced classification diagrams that, in simplest form, divide variables into two columns based on whether they are configuration or source variables, then shows linkages within a column, which are topological laws, and across columns, which are constitutive laws.
exact differential
 heat added to the system and work done by the system [or: obvious equivalents that include heat and work]
Enzo Tonti
Answer the following about the color of blood in non-human organisms, 
Crustaceans and some marine molluscs, such as octopi and squid, have oxygenated blood of this color because hemocyanin, their oxygen-transporting protein, contains copper in the active site.
The violet-pink blood of the marine invertebrate phyla Sipuncula and Brachiopoda is due to the oxygentransporting protein hemerythrin, which contains iron atoms bound to this nitrogen-containing ring in histidine residues.
Hemocyanin is structurally nearly identical to this two-copper-atom-containing enzyme that produces melanin.
 blue [or: obvious equivalents; prompt on: "cyan"]
imidazole ring [or: 1,3-diazole]
tyrosinase [prompt on: "TYR"]
This operation produces zero when applied to a matrix A minus the eigenvalues of A times the identity matrix. 
Name this matrix operation defined for square matrices that, for the 2-by-2 matrix [a b, c d], is equal to a d minus b c.
The eigenvalues of this type of matrix are the entries on the main diagonal. The LU decomposition factors a square matrix into a lower and an upper one of these matrices.
A square matrix is of this type if all of its entries are nonnegative and all of its columns sum to one. These matrices always have one as an eigenvalue.
determinant [or: det]
 triangular matrix
 Markov matrix [or: stochastic matrix]
These fish used to be unique among the bony fish for their rete mirabile system of thermoregulation, until the 2015 discovery that the opah is fully endothermic.
Name this group of bony fish that uses countercurrent exchange to keep it muscles warm, allowing them to forage in cooler waters.
 Many species of tuna are compelled by biology to live our their lives in fish social groups, which are known by this term when they feature periodic and coordinated motion. Herring is a well-known example of a fish that congregates in these fish social groups.
 The Syngnathidae family of bony fish, which includes the pipefish, is unique for this breeding strategy.
tuna [or: Thunnini, any answer that has the required part of tuna in it]
 school [prompt on: shoaling]
 the male gets pregnant [or obvious equivalents of: the male incubates the eggs, the male gives birth, the male fertilizes the egg, puts it in his brood pocket and then explodes babies]
 Answer the following about differential equations, 
A differential equation is of this type if it does not explicitly contain the independent variable. When the independent variable is time, this type of differential equation models a time-invariant system.
Only one curve passes through any given point in this thing for autonomous systems. It's the set of all possible states of a differential equation.
A maximal phase curve for an autonomous system either has no self-intersections, reduces to a single point, or is closed, in which case it is diffeomorphic to this shape, which is represented as S super 1 because it is a 1-sphere.
autonomous differential equation [or: autonomous system]
phase space [or: state space]
circle
Using a "linked" version of this method, based on finding connected, irreducible graphs, allows one to find the perturbation energy up to an arbitrarily large order.
Name this method developed by Mayer and his colleagues, using the Mayer f-function, that is often applied to the partition function.
A principle application of the cluster expansion is calculating higher-order examples of these coefficients. The right-hand side of their namesake equation of state is an infinite sum of these quantities over powers of molar volume.
The left-hand-side of the virial equation of state is actually this quantity, though it's often written out as pressure times molar volume over R T.
cluster expansion method [prompt on: "cluster methods"]
virial coefficients
compressibility factor [or: compression factor, Z]
By the expansion postulate, a complete basis set is formed by the eigenfunctions of an operator that's linear and has this property. 
 Identify this type of operator that can be switched to the other side of an inner product when its conjugate is taken.
 The eigenvalues of Hermitian operators are guaranteed to have this property, meaning the number i does not appear. It's this property of their eigenvalues that allows Hermitian operators to represent observable quantities.
A theorem due to Marshall Stone puts Hermitian operators on a Hilbert space in one-to-one correspondence with groups of unitary operators that have this property. Thus, Hermitian operators are the generators of unitary groups described by this term
Hermitian operator [or: self-adjoint operator]
 they are rea
 strongly continuous [prompt on: continuous]
In these systems, laser transitions do not end at the ground state, but instead at a level above the ground states that is quickly depopulated. 
Name this type of system commonly used for laser gain mediums because population inversion is not dependent on the pumping power. A ubiquitous example is Nd:YAG.
Though three-level gain mediums are much less efficient than four-level mediums, Theodore Maiman's development of the laser actually relied a three-level gain medium: this crystal.
 In spontaneous emission, this coefficient can be used to calculate the rate at which spontaneous, radiative downward transitions occur.
four-level system
ruby [or: corundum with chromium 3+ inclusions; prompt on: "corundum"]
Einstein's A coefficient
Answer the following about tropisms and hormones in plants
Auxins govern many tropisms in plants, including gravitropism and phototropism. What molecule is the most common auxin found in nature?
Though there's much debate about how IAA is synthesized, it seems that the most common tryptophandependent pathway for IAA synthesis involves deaminating tryptophan to this intermediate compound, then decarboxylates this intermediate to get indole-3-acetaldehyde, which is then oxidized to IAA.
Early experiments by this biologist and his son Francis showed that the coleoptiles of grass seedlings is necessary for phototropism. A paradigm shift in science occurred after the publication of his On the Origin of Species.
indole-3-acetic acid [or: IAA, 3-indoleacetic acid; prompt on: "indoleacetic acid"]
IPA [or: indole-3-pyruvic acid]
 Charles Darwin
It's important not to interpret this value as the posterior probability of truth that the null hypothesis is false because such an interpretation is "not even close to valid under any reasonable model".
Name this value for which one can can reject the null hypothesis if it is less than the level of significance, which is often 0.05 or 0.01.
P values were introduced by R. A. Fisher, who drew inspiration from this statistician's 1908 article "The probable error of a mean", in which the t-distribution and t-test were introduced in a statistical context.
Fisher introduced this type of analysis, a common pre-processing dimensionality reduction technique. In contrast to principal component analysis, it is a supervised method and tries to identify attributes that account for the most variance between classes.
p value [prompt on: "probability value"]
 Student [or: William Sealy Gosset]
LDA [or: linear discriminant analysis]
In electrophilic aromatic substitutions involving a substituted benzene, electron donating groups, or activating groups, generally direct the electrophile to these two positions. 
Name these two positions on a benzene ring that are the closest and farthest one can be from a substituent. These two positions are grouped with the meta position.
Alkyl groups are generally ortho- and para- directing because they stabilize substituents via this phenomenon, which is the donation of electron density through the sigma bonds of molecules.
 An example of a strong meta- directing group is this moiety that's structurally similar to a methyl group. It's attached to a benzene in fluoxetine, or Prozac, and a pyrazole in celecoxib, or Celebrex.
ortho and para
inductive effect [or: inductive stabilization]
CF3 [or: trifluoromethyl]
 This problem is a common introductory problem to dynamic programming. 
 Name this problem that uses the associativity property to find the most efficient way to multiply a sequence of matrices.
Dynamic programming often takes advantage of this optimization technique, in which the solutions to problems are stored in an array for future use. It basically trades space for time.
Memoization is commonly introduced in the context of calculating the this set of numbers, which are defined by the recurrence relation x-sub-n equals x-sub-n-minus-one plus x-sub-n-minus-two.
matrix-chain multiplication [or: matrix-chain ordering problem, MCOP]
memoization [or: memoize, word forms]
Fibonacci numbers [or: Fibonacci sequence]
In these diagrams, antiparticles are represented as moving from right to left, that is, backwards in time. 
 Name these diagrams used to analyze scattering problems in physics. Lines on them are particles, while vertices are where particles are created or annihilated.
Technically, calculation of the amplitude using Feynman diagram requires one to draw and calculate an infinite number of them. In practice, it's common to work at the lowest or leading order and just sum the simplest diagrams, those that contain no closed loops, which is called working at this level.
Virtual particles on Feynman diagrams, and in general, are said to be this term because they do not obey Einstein's relativistic energy-momentum relation.
Feynman diagrams
tree level
off the mass shell
This drug gained popularity with university health services as a postcoital contraceptive, after a 1971 study published by the New England Journal of Medicine. 
Name this synthetic estrogen that was used to help prevent miscarriages between the 40s and 70s. Problem is, exposure to it in utero results in an increased incidence of vaginal clear-cell adenocarcinoma.
One good thing you can say about DES is that it wasn't a disaster on the scale of this sedative, used to alleviate morning sickness in pregnant women. However, this drug often induces severe phocomelia, or shortening of the limbs, in fetuses.
Due to the fact that this anti-acne drug contains retinoic acid, a known teratogen that causes birth defects, it's intensely regulated by the FDA. Women taking it have to get a pregnancy test before starting it and before every refill.
DES [or: diethylstilbestrol, stilboestrol]
 thalidomide [or: Contergan, Immunoprin, Talidex, Talizer, Thalomid]
accutane [or: isotretinoin, 13-cis retinoic acid, Roaccutane, Amnesteem, Claravis, Absorica, Isotroin, Epuris]
Held and Hou's model of this circulation is symmetric about the equator and uses absolute angular momentum conservation and thermal wind balance for analysis. 
Name this wind cell that transports heat away from the equator, to thirty degrees latitude.
As opposed to the north-south circulations of the Hadley, Ferrel, and polar cells, this circulation is east-west. El NiÃ±o results from a reversal of this circulation.
The Walker circulation was given its name by a scientist with this surname, who explicated the link between the Southern Oscillation and El NiÃ±o. That scientist's father, also of this surname, applied his namesake circulation theorem for nonhomogeneous fluids to weather forecasting.
Hadley cell [or: Hadley circulation]
Walker circulation
Bjerknes [or: Jacob Aall Bonnevie Bjerknes, Vilhelm Friman Koren Bjerknes]
Though some of the basic methods used in this technique are pretty much the same as ELISA, it has much greater sensitivityÂ—down to the level of a single cell.
Name this commonly used immunoassay that cultures cells on a surface coated with a specific capture antibody, removes them, then uses a detection antibody that will cause the appearance of spots. 
ELISPOT can be adapted for diagnosing this disease, though studies are inconclusive as to whether it has a better sensitivity than the Mantoux test for diagnosing this disease, which injects a small sample into a human's skin. 
ELISPOT and ELISA are often carried out in these laboratory devices that typically come with 96, 384, or 1536 tiny containers. They're arranged in 2-to-3 rectangular matrix. 
ELISPOT [or: Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSpot]
TB [or: tuberculosis] 
microtiter plate [or: microplate, microwell plate, multiwell] 
Answer the following about fluid mechanics,
This approximation is used for buoyancy-driven flows in which temperature, and thus density, have little variation, so density is regarded as constant outside the buoyancy term in the vertical equation of motion. It's used for "almost" incompressible flows and is sort of a subset of the anelastic approximation. 
The Boussinesq approximation conserves volume instead of this quantity. An equation for the conservation of this quantity is: partial time derivative of density plus divergence of, density times flow velocity, equals zero. 
In fluid mechanics, this principle is a statement of the conservation of energy for inviscid, incompressible flows. 
Boussinesq approximation
mass
Bernoulli's principle [or: Bernoulli's equation, Bernoulli's effect] 
Synclines and anticlines are characteristic formations due to this process. 
Name this process characteristic of compressional regimes, in which strata are bent or curved, often creating an undulating or wave-like pattern. Extreme tilting of an axial plane in this process leads to an "overturned" structure. 
This type of "well-foliated" metamorphic rock is formed by strong ductile deformation during folding and faultingÂ—in which parent rock is completely pulverized. They're often found in shear zones. 
Blastomylonite is formed when this process occurs after deformation has ceased. The "fractional" form of this process creates increasingly felsic magma as more mafic minerals undergo this process, as depicted diagrammatically in Bowen's reaction series. 
folding [do not accept: "faulting"] 
mylonite
recrystallization [or: word forms; prompt on: "precipitation"] 
One of these curves gives the locus of conditions for gas-liquid phases to form a stable, phase-separated system while the other gives the locus of conditions at which a metastable gas or liquid spontaneously phase-separates. 
Name these two curves that are equivalent to the coexistence curve and the metastability limit curve. 
The binodal and spinodal curves meet at this point, which is the end of a phase equilibrium curve. 
Due to not having a liquid-gas phase boundary, supercritical fluids notably lack this property. The difference in capillary pressure is equal to this quantity times the sum of the reciprocals of the radii of curvature. 
the binodal and spinodal curves 
critical point 
surface tension [or: interfacial tension] 
By default, this algorithm will not find matches between sequences that have fewer than 11 contiguous nucleotides of similarity. 
Name this bioinformatics tool that is used to align two nucleotide or amino acid sequences. 
The most commonly-used version of BLAST is hosted on this organization's website, which also hosts Genbank. This branch of the NIH's National Library of Medicine also hosts PubMed. 
In this type of figure, each sequence occupies each axis, and a similarity is indicated by a point, which helps to find similarities between sequences. There is often a diagonal line visible in this type of figure. 
BLAST [or: basic local alignment search tool]
NCBI [or: National Center for Biotechnology Information] 
dot plot
This function reduces to the hyperbolic cotangent of x minus one over x, that isÂ—Langevin's function, in the classical limit of J goes to infinity. 
Name this used to find the paramagnetic magnetization.
This constant multiplies the Brillouin function for J in the paramagnetic magnetization. The magnetic moment of the electron is expressed in units of this constant.
The Brillouin zone is the Wigner-Seitz primitive cell in the reciprocal one of these structures. In three dimensions, there are fourteen Bravais examples of these structures, which consist of infinitely repeated unit cells.
Brillouin ("bree-oyn") function
Bohr magneton [or: mu-sub-b]
lattices [do not accept: "crystals"]
This protein was isolated after the observation that fibroblasts in culture do not proliferate when provided with plasma, but do when provided with serum
Name this mitogen that, like EGF, has very broad specificity. It's released by platelets
 PDGF, EGF, and many, many other growth factors and hormones act through cell-surface receptors named for this amino acid. Like phenylalanine and tryptophan, it's an aromatic amino acid with a namesake hydroxylase.
The receptor named for this hormone is a receptor tyrosine kinase. This hormone is produced by beta cells in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas.
PDGF [or: platelet-derived growth factor]
 tyrosine [or: tyr]
insulin
Paul Offit explored the disastrous presence of a live form of this virus in vaccines produced by Cutter Laboratories in The Cutter Incident. 
Name this virus whose first successful vaccine was developed by Jonas Salk.
The distribution of vaccines with live poliovirus could've been avoided if NIH director William Sebrell had just listened to Bernice Eddy, who noticed that the vaccine was causing paralysis in monkeys. Bernice Eddy also discovered that this virus, present in the Salk and Sabin polio vaccines, caused tumors in hamsters.
Maurice Hilleman discovered SV40 in the Salk and Sabin polio vaccines while at this drug company, where he developed all the vaccines. It's known for developing the first statin, lovastatin, and the catastrophic Vioxx incident.
 poliovirus [do not accept: "poliomyelitis"]
SV40 [or: simian vacuolating virus 40, simian virus 40]
Merck &amp; Co., Inc. [or: MRK, Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme, MSD]
Polymerizations described by this term occur best when each monomer contains at least one strong electron withdrawing group. 
Name this type of polymerization that proceeds via a chain that carries a negative charge.
Condensation polymerization is contrasted with this type of polymerization, which includes cationic and anionic subtypes. The chain growth step of an anionic polymerization is the Michael type of this reaction, in which two compounds are combined.
A use for anionic polymers is in strong adhesives like Super Glue, which are commonly made from derivatives of this monomer. This anion is stabilized by its ester and nitrile groups.
anionic
addition
alpha-cyanoacrylate [or: 2-cyanoacrylate]
According to John Hubbard, "something like half of mathematics consists of showing that some space" has this property.
Name this property possessed by a subset of the reals that is closed and bounded. Sets with this property are of great import in part because they're guaranteed to have a convergent subsequence whose limit is in the set.
The existence of a convergent subsequence can be used to be prove this theorem, which states that a symmetric matrix can be diagonalized with an orthonormal matrix. Equivalently, a symmetric matrix times an orthonormal basis is equal to the eigenvector times the orthonormal basis
The existence of a convergent subsequence can also be used to prove this theorem. This theorem guarantees that every polynomial of degree one or greater one has at least one complex root.
compactness
spectral theorem [or: principal axis theorem, Sylvester's principle of inertia, Sylvester's law of inertia]
fundamental theorem of algebra
By SchÃ¼tzenberger's theorem, a rational language has this property if and only if its syntactic monoid is finite and aperiodic.
 Identify this property of certain regular languages that are definable with first order logic because they can be described by a regular expression constructed only from their alphabet, the empty set, and boolean operators. 
This computer scientist showed that the monadic second-order theory of the infinite binary tree is decidable. The landscape of automata theory was changed forever upon the publication of the paper "Finite Automata and Their Decision Problem," by this dude and Dana Scott. 
The Rabin-Karp string searching algorithm uses this type of function that maps strings of any length to a value of fixed length. The MD5 example of these functions is commonly used as a sort of digital fingerprint for a file. 
star-free [or: they don't use the Kleene star, obvious equivalents] 
Michael O. Rabin [or: Michael Oser Rabin]
hash functions
The danger of these phenomena comes from their super-duper large increase in amplitude as the depth of water gets shallower, a general process called wave shoaling.
 Identify these waves that have such a long wavelength that they're shallow water waves even in the deep ocean. 
The way waves break depends mostly on the slope of a beach and a wave's steepness. You're probably most familiar with this type of breaking wave, in which the crest of a wave moves much faster than the trough, creating a "spectacular open curl." It's in a different regime than spilling and surging breakers. 
The region where waves break is known by this name. Beyond this region, waves continue onto a beach at reduced height as swash. 
tsunamis [or: harbor waves; prompt on: "tidal waves"] 
plunging breaker 
surf zone
Answer the following about the contributions of physicist Maria Goeppert-Mayer,
Goeppert-Mayer proposed that a molecule could simultaneously absorb two of these particles, each with energy h c over lambda, causing the molecule to be excited to a higher state than by a single one of them. 
Goeppert-Mayer proposed this process, in which atomic mass stays the same and atomic number increases by two. If a form of this process existed, then at least one neutrino flavor would be a Majorana particle and have a nonzero rest mass. 
 Goeppert-Mayer's work on magic numbers of nucleons led her to work on this model of the nucleus, with a key breakthrough coming when Enrico Fermi suggested she consider spin-orbit coupling. 
photons
double beta decay [or: neutrinoless double beta decay, two beta two nu, two beta zero nu, zero nu two beta; do not accept: "beta decay"] 
nuclear shell model 
This structure is observed in the C/EBP, Fos, and Jun proteins.
Name this DNA-binding structural motif in which two amphipathic alpha-helices are dimerized to form a coiled-coil. Proteins with this motif grip DNA like a clothespin.
This DNA-binding structural motif was the first to be identified as involved in a protein's ability to bind to the major groove of DNA. It consists of two alpha helices connected by a short chain of amino acids. 
The helix-turn-helix motif was discovered in the cro, cI, and lac repressors of the lambda phage, which infects this bacterium. This bacterium is one of the most widely used model organisms in biology. 
 leucine zipper motif [or: ZIP] 
helix-turn-helix motif [or: HTH motif] 
E. coli [or: Escherichia coli]
One equation describing this process assumes that only monolayers are formed, and that surfaces on which this process occurs are uniform. For 10 points each:
Name this process whose extent is related to the partial pressures of the gas undergoing this process in an isotherm named for Irving Langmuir.
This regime, which is characterized by pressures as low as ten-to-the-negative-nine torr, significantly increases the mean-free-path of particles. Achieving this regime has been central to the Nobel-winning surface chemistry work of Gerhard Ertl.
In the UHV-assisted photon traps of Haroche et al., photons interact with gigantic atoms known by this name. These atoms have principal quantum number as high as 50, and high orbital quantum numbers, and their relaxation times are on the order of seconds, making them ideal systems for study.
adsorption [accept "chemical adsorption" or "physical adsorption"]
ultrahigh vacuum [accept UHV]
Rydberg atoms [prompt on "alkali metal (atoms)"]
In statistics, power refers to the ability of a model not to commit this error. For 10 points each:
Name this error, which can be committed by anyone, even YOU, who fails to reject a null hypothesis when it is false.
Modern hypothesis testing is largely based on the work of two British statisticians, whose theory boils down to choosing the test that maximizes power while subjecting an arbitrary upper bound, aka a P-value, on the probability of committing a type 1 error. Name either scientist.
When comparing multiple hypotheses, you may use this technique in which you maintain a familial significance cutoff, but divide the cutoff by the number of hypotheses when testing each hypothesis. This technique, named for an Italian, minimizes the probability of erroneous significant effects.
type II error [or error of the second kind]
Egon Pearson or Jerzy Neyman [accept Neyman-Pearson theory; do not accept or prompt on "Karl Pearson"]
Bonferroni correction
This equation can be derived by balancing out the buoyant forces and frictional forces on a particle against the centripetal force. For 10 points each:
Identify this equation whose namesake unit is equivalent to 100 femto-seconds. It gives the sedimentation coefficient in terms of the velocity and the field strength and is named for a Swedish chemist.
This equation, derived by a student of Svedberg, gives the temporal change in concentration as a function of time and the radius. It is a PDE that is derived by incorporating Svedberg's results into Fick's second law
This theory, whose namesakes obtained an iterative solution to the Lamm equation, attempts to predict sedimentation velocity gradients and reaction boundary profiles in the limit of infinite time and a diffusion-free environment.
Svedberg equation
Lamm equation
Gilbert-Jenkins theory [accept names in reverse order]
This plant is a natural host to the Asian stinkbug, and it belongs to the genus Pueraria. For 10 points each:
Give the common name for this invasive vine, which is a major threat to biodiversity in southeastern U.S., where some cities have deployed armies of goats to combat its spread.
Common name accepted. Kudzu belongs to this plant family, which, along with the asters and the orchids, is one of the largest plant families. Other invasive members of this family include crown vetch and chinese bushclover.
Another highly invasive legume is the pigra species of this genus, whose species tend to have puffy pink flowers. This genus' species pudica is called the "touch-me-not plant" because its leaves rapidly fold up when disturbed.
kudzu
legumes [or Leguminosae; or Fabaceae; accept Papilionaceae]
Mimosa [accept Mimosa pigra or Mimosa pudica]
If this conjecture is correct, then it's bad news for people like Sarah Connor and Marty McFly. For 10 points each:
Name this principle, which states that it is impossible for a time travel event to result in a causality violation.
When the spacetime interval for two events is positive, they have this kind of separation and therefore cannot have a causal relationship.
This kind of spacetime diagram has a finite diamond shape resulting from the choice of a conformal factor such that its corners represent spacelike and timelike infinities. They are used to study the causal structure of black holes.
Novikov self-consistency principle or conjecture [prompt on partial answer]
space-like separation
Penrose-Carter diagrams [or Carter-Penrose diagrams]
These organisms have periplasmic flagella, which allows them to be motile in viscous fluid, and the motility of these bacteria occurs via backward-moving waves generated by the flagella. For 10 points each:
Name these bacteria that have a characteristic helical morphology. Examples of these bacteria include the Lyme disease-cause Borrelia burgdorferi.
Like Lyme disease, this other disease that has tick-borne and louse-borne variants is caused by Borrelia species. It is characterized by periodic febrile episodes that may sometimes end in "crisis" events, and some Rickettsia bacteria also cause this disease.
Patients who receive antibiotics for spirochetal diseases may develop this response, which manifests as myalgia, hypotension, and fever soon after treatment. It is caused by the release of LPS from the bacteria, and can be prevented by administering anti-TNF alpha antibody prior to the antibiotic regimen.
spirochetes [or spirochaetae]
relapsing fever [or RF]
Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction [accept: the Herx]
The incipient movement of this substance versus the critical shear stress is considered on the Shields diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this term for matter produced by the weathering of rocks at the Earth's surface and transported by wind, ice, water, or gravity.
This diagram in sediment transport plots the boundaries between erosion, transportation, and deposition of sediment on a graph of flow velocity versus particle size. A refinement of this diagram was implemented by Sundborg.
An outdoor example of these open-channel structures was built by G. K. Gilbert at Berkeley to study sediment transport. The University of Tsukuba built a giant recirculating example of these structures, which carry unidirectional gravity-driven free-surface flow, as opposed to closed ducts or conduits.
sediment
Hjulström-Sundborg diagram [or Hjulström-Sundborg curve]
flumes
These particles are subject to the MSW effect as they oscillate while traveling through matter. For 10 points each:
Name these particles that experience mixing of their flavor and mass eigenstates, as described by the PMNS matrix.
This detector found the first evidence of neutrino oscillation soon after going live in 1996. It is an underground tank filled with 50,000 tons of water, and it is the successor to an older detector that failed to observe proton decay.
When a neutrino oscillates between just two flavors, this is the maximum probability of conversion from one flavor to the other. Give your answer as a function of the mixing angle theta.
neutrinos
Super-Kamiokande [or Super-Kamioka Neutrino Detection Experiment; do not accept or prompt on "Kamiokande"]
sine squared of two theta [accept mathematical equivalents, e.g. four sine squared theta cosine squared theta]
The "zero-area" version of this device is a potential next-generation gravitational wave detector. For 10 points each:
Name this device that splits light into two beams that travel around the same closed path in opposite directions.
Michelson and Morley improved upon this experiment by using a Sagnac interferometer. This experiment, which measured the speed of light in flowing water, appeared to verify Fresnel's partial ether drag hypothesis.
Fresnel was wrong about the ether, but he did derive the correct governing equation for this phenomenon in the case where aperture diameter squared over quantity "distance times wavelength" is greater than or equal to one.
Sagnac interferometer [prompt on "interferometer"]
Fizeau experiment
diffraction
This mineral, which is harder and denser than its counterpart anatase, is named for its red appearance. For 10 points each:
Name this mineral that is transparent to light in the visible light spectrum, and has a high index of refraction. Those properties make this mineral the go-to source for white pigments.
Anatase and rutile have this symmetry, which means they have two axes of equal length and a third that is stretched. The two Bravais lattices with this symmetry are labeled tP and tI ["T-P" and "T-I"].
Anatase and rutile are oxides of this element, which is extracted from rutile via the Kroll process.
rutile
tetragonal
titanium [accept Ti]
Answer the following about synthetic biology, for 10 points each.
Synthetic biologists often use zinc finger proteins, which have this activity that is also possessed by leucine zipper motifs. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays or footprinting assays are used to study this activity, which usually occurs along the major groove of the substrate.
Synthetic biologists love to tinker with this bacterial genus, whose genitalium species was the second species to ever have its full genome sequenced. The avium and intercellulare species of this genus form a complex that usually only affects patients suffering from AIDS.
One important synthetic biologist is this Harvard geneticist and director of the Personal Genomes Project. He demonstrated DNA's use as an information storage system by encoding his book Regenesis in DNA in 2013.
protein-DNA binding [accept word forms; prompt on more generic things like "DNA interaction"]
Mycobacterium
George [McDonald] Church
The earliest models for these entities involved hierarchical or network structures, the latter of which was implemented in CODASYL. For 10 points each:
Name these entities that that perform atomic transactions and must be durable according to the ACID model. Relational implementations of them are SQL ["S Q L"] based, but "NoSQL" ones are all the craze these days.
This distributed model for processing large datasets involves two steps that emit key-value pairs, and a "shuffle" steps that sorts the output from the first step to the appropriate node for the second step. It is named for two higher-order functions from functional programming.
According to the CAP theorem, distributed systems must make a choice between this property, high availability, and partition tolerance. It is the "C" in the ACID model of databases.
databases
map/reduce [prompt on MR]
consistency [accept word forms]
Much like carboxylic acids, these compounds react with alcohols to form esters. For 10 points each:
Name these functional groups that can be hydrogenated to produce aldehydes using poisoned palladium on barium sulfate. These groups can be thought of as carboxylic acids in which the hydroxyl group is replaced by atoms from a group of elements that are highly electronegative.
Acyl chlorides react with quinolines and cyanide to produce these compounds, which are named after the German chemist who names a reaction to produce indoles from o-nitro-toluene and diethyl oxalate using an ethoxide base. These compounds are very useful in the synthesis of the opium-derived natural product papaverine.
Reissert derivatives are a useful way to prepare aldehydes containing this atom, which has the second- lowest priority in CIP rules. NMR often uses chloroform containing this atom, which is found in heavy water.
acyl halides [or acid halides; accept specific types like acyl chlorides or acid chlorides; prompt on partial answer]
Reissert compounds [or Reissert derivatives]
deuterium [or D; or 2H; do not accept or prompt on "H2"]
In a classic experiment, GFP was fused to a viral gene VSVG expressing this type of mutation in order to track the movement of proteins through the Golgi. For 10 points each:
Name these conditional mutants, which appear as wild-type under permissive conditions but express a mutant phenotype under restrictive conditions. Their use was pioneered by Horowitz and Leupold in tests of the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis.
Biologists often use temperature-sensitive mutants of this model organism, whose transcriptional activator GAL4 is the basis for a namesake two-hybrid screen. This ascomycete is related to the "fission" species S. pombe.
A large part of the protein transport pathway through the ER, Golgi, and vesicles was first studied in these yeast mutants. These mutants are the namesake of the proteins that form the translocon and COPII coat.
temperature-sensitive mutants [accept TS mutants; accept cold-sensitive or heat-sensitive mutants]
budding yeast [or Saccharomyces; or S. cerevisiae or other species]
sec mutants/proteins [accept secretion or secretory mutants/proteins]
The simplest model of these objects is the "Polish doughnut" model. For 10 points each:
Name these accumulations of diffuse material around massive objects such as black holes.
J. Pringle and this other astrophysicist worked together on a paper that models accretion discs using thin discs. With Martin Rees, this astronomer proposed that a black hole was at the center of the Milky Way.
The Blanford-Znajek mechanism, a proposed method of powering quasars, is also a proposed mechanism for these astronomical phenomena, in which a gush of material is emitted from a compact object.
accretion disc
Donald Lynden-Bell [prompt on partial last name]
astronomical jets
The BN-600 reactor in Russia is unique in that its design does not include one of these materials. For 10 points each:
Name these materials used in nuclear reactors to convert fast neutrons into thermal neutrons through scattering.
Graphite moderators are subject to this effect in which high-energy neutrons collide with lattice atoms to create Frenkel defects. The release of this effect's namesake energy indirectly caused the 1957 Windscale fire in the UK.
A decrease in neutron speed corresponds to an increase in this quantity. It represents the probability that a nuclear reaction will occur in terms of an effective area.
neutron moderators
Wigner effect [or Wigner energy; prompt on "discomposition"]
nuclear cross section
A hydride shift is an example of this type of reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this type of reaction, in which the carbon skeleton of a molecule undergoes a change. Two pericyclic examples of this type of reaction are the sigmatropic Cope and Claisen reactions.
This rearrangement involves the loss of nitrogen from an alpha-diazo-carbonyl compound and the 1,2- rearrangement of an alkyl group to generate a ketene. This reaction is also an intermediate step in a separate one-carbon homologation of carboxylic acids.
For a rearrangement to be pericyclic, it must possess a cyclic transition state and also possess this property. SN2 reactions have this property, but SN1 reactions do not.
rearrangements
Wolff rearrangement [the homologation is the Arndt-Eistert synthesis]
concerted [or one step or single step or any clear equivalents]
Prandtl proposed the existence of these regions in order to resolve d'Alembert's paradox. For 10 points each:
Name these fluid layers with thickness given by the distance from the surface to the point where the flow velocity is 99% of the free-stream velocity. They are subject to the no-slip condition.
In this kind of boundary layer, the pressure gradient force, Coriolis force, and turbulent drag are all balanced.
Stirring a teacup makes the leaves settle in the center, not at the sides. This physicist showed that the effect is caused by a secondary flow in the Ekman layer and extended his result to prove Baer's law of riverbank erosion.
boundary layers
Ekman layer
Albert Einstein
Some molecules that promote this condition contain trihydroxytetraene and are exemplified by a myeloid cell product called leukotriene B4. For 10 points each:
Name this condition whose "acute" form is characterized by five cardinal signs called "PRISH." Prostaglandins help promote this primary immune response, which involves swelling at the damaged site.
These white-blood-cell-produced cytokines promote inflammation by activating T cells and B cells. The sixth member of this group is a biomarker for atherothrombosis and may promote TNF-alpha.
These arachidonic acid derivatives, which are not resolvins or leukotrienes or protectins, can help reduce inflammation. They promote degranulation and superoxide generation, and they have "aspirin- triggered" counterparts that are produced via the COX-2 pathway, unlike these compounds.
inflammation
interleukins [or ILK]
lipoxins [or lipoxygenase interaction products; prompt on "non-classic eicosanoids"]
This bonus on Feynman diagrams has nothing to do with ghosts, penguins, or ghost penguins. For 10 points each:
Because this equation contains an infinite number of interactions, the ladder approximation is used to convert it to a Feynman diagram. This equation describes the bound states of a two-particle system in quantum field theory.
Using this method to calculate the S-matrix generates expansion terms that correspond to Feynman diagrams. This theory approximates a quantum system in terms of a simpler system subject to a small corrective disturbance.
The standard perturbative expansion of the S-matrix is this physicist's namesake series. His namesake equation sets the self-energy operator equal to the inverse of the bare propagator minus the inverse of the dressed propagator.
Bethe-Salpeter equation
perturbation theory
Freeman Dyson [or Dyson series; or Dyson equation]
In April 2014, NASA reported evidence from Cassini that this moon has an underground ocean. For 10 points each:
Name this moon of Saturn whose south polar region features active cryovolcanoes and "tiger stripe" terrain.
Enceladus has the highest value for this quantity of any object in the solar system. Opposition surge causes this quantity to increase as the phase angle approaches zero.
This semi-empirical model describes the photometric properties of solar system objects with regolithic surfaces. Its parameters include the single scattering albedo and effective surface tilt.
Enceladus
geometric albedo [prompt on "brightness"; do not accept or prompt on "reflectance" or "Bond albedo"]
Hapke model
These types of reactions are sometimes named for Hans Goldschmidt, who discovered one example of them between aluminum and iron. For 10 points each:
Name this type of reaction, commonly demonstrated in intro chemistry classes, in which the oxidation of one metal is exergonic enough to drive the reduction of another. It is often used for underwater welding.
Thermite reactions are a tool in this paradigm, in which inorganic, solid substances such as metallics, intermetallics, and composites can be produced using a redox reaction. They usually occur at temperatures lower than chemical or physical vapor deposition, and one example of this technique is the Pechini reaction.
Chick et al. pioneered a combustion synthesis of ceramic oxides using a combination of metal nitrates and this simplest, non-chiral amino acid.
thermite reactions [or aluminothermic reaction]
combustion synthesis [accept CS; antiprompt (i.e. "can you be less specific?") on "self- propagating high-temperature synthesis"]
glycine [accept: G or Gly]
Good news everyone! We'll be delivering a package to Chapek 9, a world where humans are killed on sight. For 10 points each:
To get there, we'll be making frequent use of this equation that sets the delta-v of a maneuver equal to "effective exhaust velocity times the natural log of initial mass over final mass."
We'll also be making use of this most efficient way to transfer from a lower orbit to a higher one, or vice versa. We'll wait for the right launch window so that this elliptical transfer orbit will intersect with Chapek 9's orbit around its sun.
In order to haul ass out of Chapek 9, we use this kind of rocket nozzle to exhaust fuel at supersonic velocities. This type of nozzle is hourglass shaped and is usually named for its Swedish inventor.
ideal rocket equation [or Tsiolkovsky rocket equation]
Hohmann transfer orbit
de Laval nozzle [or convergent-divergent nozzle; or CD nozzle]
This effect can be modeled by a cubic growth equation in which the right side of the logistic growth equation is modified by an "N over A minus 1" term. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which the per-capita growth rate of a population increases with population size. One cause of this effect is mate limitation, in which males and females do not interact frequently at low population densities.
Population ecologists estimate that the "maximum sustainable" value of this concept occurs when the population size of a logistically growing population is at half carrying capacity. This concept is important in fishery management.
Fisheries can be considered an example of one of these benefits humans derive from the natural world. Other examples of these benefits include wetlands detoxifying wastewater and the free pollination of agricultural crops.
Allee effect
[maximum sustainable] yield
ecosystem services [prompt on partial]
A namesake molecule produced by this organism is a potent RNA polymerase II inhibitor. For 10 points each:
Name this basidiomycete studied by Heinrich Wieland. It produces a different toxin that inhibits the depolymerization of a compound that comes in filamentous and globular forms.
The phalloidin toxin inhibits the depolymerization of this protein, whose nucleation is aided by the Arp2/3 complex. This protein forms microfilaments that slide past myosin fibers during muscle contraction.
In the steady state, actin filaments display this behavior in which molecules are added on or dissociate at the tails, but the overall length of the filament remains the same.
Amanita phalloides [or A. phalloides; accept death cap fungus or death cap mushroom; accept alpha Amanitin]
actin
treadmilling
Name the following about titrations, for 10 points each.
This technique is used to quantify the dissolved oxygen in environmental water samples. Manganese(II) sulfate is added to solution, which is subsequently oxidized in its first step, and later the solution is re-acidified and an iodometric back-titration is performed to quantify the oxidized manganese.
Another titration method involves the indirect measurement of this quantity, which is related to electrophoretic mobility by the Henry equation. Ionic polyelectrolytes are used in water treatment to effect changes in this quantity and induce greater stability or flocculation of suspended particles.
When performing titrations, you usually want to stop at this point, at which the analyte is effectively consumed by the titrant. It is also the point at which titration curve has the highest slope.
Winkler test
zeta potential titration
equivalence point
Because of this effect, a ship traveling eastward has less weight than if it were traveling westward. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which an object moving horizontally on the Earth's surface experiences a vertical deflection. 
Loránd Eötvös conducted experiments demonstrating that there is no difference between inertial mass and gravitational mass, a result that has this two-word name. Einstein formulated its "strong" version.
The lower the Eötvös number, the more this phenomenon's effects dominate those of gravity. The Eötvös rule assumes a linear relationship between this phenomenon and temperature.
Eötvös effect [do not accept or prompt on "Coriolis effect"] ["UT-vush"; accept reasonable phonetic pronunciations]
equivalence principle [accept strong equivalence principle; prompt on "equivalence"]
surface tension
Examples of these algorithms include perceptrons and the work function algorithm. For 10 points each:
Name these algorithms that process an input piece-by-piece in the order in which it was fed; they may be forced to make decisions that later turn out to be suboptimal.
This problem concerns a weighted graph in which some edges are unreliable and may or may not be removed at the time of traversal. Its objective is to find the online algorithm that minimizes the ratio of its traversal cost to that of the offline algorithm that knows in advance which edges will be removed.
When all unreliable edges fail, the Canadian traveler problem reduces to this type of graph theory problem. For graphs with negative edge weights, Bellman-Ford is the optimal algorithm for this task.
online algorithms
Canadian traveler problem [accept CTP]
[single-source, all-paths] shortest-path algorithm [accept path-finding]
Thanks to name-change threads on the quizbowl forums, everyone knows that the Schmidt index refers to beeeeeeeeee stings. For 10 points each:
The toxic component of beeeee venom is this water-soluble protein that exists as a monomer or a tetramer. Its S form is slightly less toxic, and, like the wasp-toxin mastoparan, this compound wreaks havoc on ion-channel activity.
Melittin's structure has an amphiphilic nature, which means that it is great at integrating into these structures, whose component molecules have an ionic group in their heads and two glyceride tails. They are described by the fluid mosaic model.
WUSTL researchers have created melittin-wielding nano-beeeees as part of a therapy against this agent, whose Vif protein counteracts the body's A3G response. This agent may be CCR5 or CXCR4-tropic.
melittin
cell membrane [prompt on phospholipid bilayer]
HIV [or human immunodeficiency virus]
The "sergeants and soldiers" model describes the amplification of this property in polymers, as the products have a uniform helicity when the reagents only feature a small number of monomers with this property. For 10 points each:
Name this property whose name comes from the Greek for "handedness." The goal of asymmetric syntheses is to selectively achieve it in products without the need for further separations.
These two terms, which are reminiscent of the notation used to identify the directionality of chiral centers, describe the two "faces" of the prochiral sp2-hybridized carbon. Name both.
This early predictive rule for asymmetric inductions states that for a carbonyl carbon with an alpha chiral center, a nucleophilic attack preferentially occurs from the less bulky side. This now-outdated model gives the same result as the Felkin-Anh model in some cases.
chirality
Re and Si
Cram's rule
This algorithm for solving a second-order ordinary differential equation near a singular point requires only that the coefficient functions of the first- and zeroth-order terms have at worst first- and second-order removable singularities respectively. For 10 points each:
Name this technique. Under the above hypothesis, Fuchs' theorem guarantees that it will find at least one solution.
In general, the method of Frobenius produces solutions in this form. A solution in this form can be summed to yield a more desirable closed-form solution in special cases.
This is the name for an equation that relates the terms of a series to one another. A step in the method of Frobenius is to derive one of these equations by equating like terms in the substituted ODE, then solving for the zeroth-order term to obtain the indicial equation.
method of Frobenius
infinite series [prompt on "series" or "analytical"]
recurrence relation [or difference equation]
In 2004, Stephen Hawking used this relationship to resolve the black hole information paradox. For 10 points each:
Name this relationship that links theories of quantum gravity with exact counterparts in quantum field theory. For example, type IIB ["2-B"] string theory in ten dimensions can be reformulated in terms of supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory in four dimensions.
This Argentine physicist proposed the AdS/CFT correspondence in 1997. In 2013, he and Leonard Susskind conjectured that entangled particles are connected by wormholes.
The AdS/CFT correspondence is a special case of the holographic principle, which states that the boundary of a region of space contains a complete description of it. For example, information pertaining to an object that has fallen into a black hole is encoded in this part of the black hole.
AdS/CFT correspondence [accept answers describing a relationship between anti-de Sitter space and conformal field theory; prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal, "Maldacena duality" or "gauge/gravity duality"]
Juan Martin Maldacena
event horizon [prompt on "horizon"]
Given two continuous functions from a topological space X to Y, this term refers to the continuous function that is the cross of the space X with the unit interval to space Y. For 10 points each:
Name this relationship between two topological spaces, such that one can be continuously deformed into another.
This term refers to the simplest homotopy group that is the set of all "loops" in an algebraic space that can be deformed into each other without breaking.
The homotopy lifting property can be used to characterize this class of topological spaces, which consists of a continuous surjective mapping from the total space to the base space. A cylindrical hairbrush is often given as an illustration of one.
homotopy [accept word forms; do not accept "homoemorphism" or word forms thereof]
fundamental group
fiber bundle [prompt on partial answers]
This organism was characterized after its rediscovery by Taylor in 1976, and it has the highest chromosome number among its formicid counterparts. For 10 points each:
Give the scientific name of this yellowish organism that is called a "living fossil" among the ants. It is studied as a missing link in the development of social behavior.
Nothomyrmecia is one of the many interesting organisms found on this continent, whose other terrestrial and arboreal fauna include the kookaburra, the wallaby, and the wombat. This continent is to the south-east of the Wallace line.
This group of ants maintain populations of the bacterium Pseudonocardia, whose secondary metabolites help protect these ants' fungal cultivars against the parasitic Escovopsis fungus.
Nothomyrmecia macrops [or N. macrops]
Australia
attine ants [accept higher attine or lower attine ants or leaf-cutting ants or leaf-cutter ants]
These equations have streaming terms on the left side and collision terms on the right. For 10 points each:
Name this set of equations linking the probability density function of an s-particle system with the probability density function of an s+1-particle system.
The BBGKY hierarchy for an s-particle subset of an n-particle system can be obtained by integrating the equation describing this theorem over the terms representing the remaining n minus s particles. This theorem states that the distribution function is constant along any phase space trajectory.
Liouville's theorem implies that this hypothesis is valid when the initial distribution of microstates is uniform. It is related to molecular chaos and is a necessary precondition of the equipartition and Poincaré recurrence theorems.
BBGKY hierarchy [or Bogoliubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon hierarchy]
Liouville's theorem
ergodic hypothesis [or ergodicity]
Because all the hydrogen atoms on one molecule with this functional group are equivalent, they only give one peak in proton-NMR, making that molecule an ideal reference compound. For 10 points each:
Name this simplest of the alkyl groups. The reference molecule TMS has four of these groups bonded to a central silicon atom.
Improving signals in C-NMR and N-NMR can be achieved using techniques like INEPT or the Overhauser effect in NOESY. Both techniques involve the transfer of this quantity, which is roughly the ratio of the density of states of spin-up and spin-down electrons.
Presaturation and jump return are methods of achieving this result in NMR spectroscopy particularly when the analyte is a biological sample. A powerful method of achieving this result is called excitation sculpting.
methyl [do not accept "methane"]
spin polarization
solvent suppression [accept removing the signal from the solvent or descriptive equivalents]
Compatibilization procedures can be used to impart this property to two polymers that would otherwise not be capable of it. For 10 points:
Name this property in which two or more substances mix in all proportions to form a homogeneous solution. Metal pairs without this property cannot form alloys.
The immiscibility of two liquids is key to the liquid-liquid form of this procedure, which involves a solute moving from one solvent to another as they are brought into contact. The more contact between the two phases, the greater the efficiency of this process.
Useful in understanding extraction systems, this law states that, for a solute and two immiscible solvents, the ratio of the concentrations of the solute in each solvent equals a constant.
miscibility [accept word forms such as miscible]
[liquid-liquid] extraction
Nernst distribution law [accept distribution law; prompt on "Nernst('s law)"]
Kapitonov and Jurka discovered helitrons in this organism, and the "b-z" locus is an oft-studied region on its chromosome 9. For 10 points each:
Name this organism. The genome of the B73 strain of this organism was released in a landmark 2009 paper by Schnable et al., and strains of this organism are often categorized as "SS" or "NSS."
This cytogeneticist discovered the role of transposons in maize using the Ac/Ds system. She also produced the first genetic map for maize, and is the only woman to be awarded an unshared Nobel in Physiology and Medicine.
Helitron transposons in maize replicate using this type of DNA replication, which results in a single strand of DNA. It is not theta replication, but the lambda phage replicates using this process during lytic development.
maize [or corn; accept Zea mays or Z. mays]
Barbara McClintock
rolling-circle replication [accept rolling-circle amplification or RCA or RCR]
This problem was inspired by a legend in which Brahmin priests working in an underground Varanasi temple are moving 64 rings from one peg to another peg. For 10 points each:
Name this classic problem in which disks are moved from one stack to another following a certain set of constraints.
The problem can be solved with the numeral system of these binary codes, sometimes called reflected binary codes, in which two successive values differ by only one bit.
The axes of these constructs are labeled using the Gray code. These graphical constructs allow anyone, even Chris Ray, to find prime implicants and thus minterms of boolean expressions.
towers of Hanoi [accept pluralized and singular forms of the answer]
Gray code
Karnaugh maps [or K-maps]
The statistical power of these studies can be increased by imputing genotypes to predict the character states at loci that were not assayed, and their results are often displayed on Manhattan plots. For 10 points each:
Name this class of studies in which lots of genetic markers, typically SNPs, from across the genome are surveyed for relationships with phenotypic traits, such as susceptibility to diseases.
This is the name given to sets of SNPs or other polymorphisms that tend to be inherited together. Many projects seek to build maps to show the geographic distribution of these entities.
One of the first GWA studies identified complement factor H as a risk factor for the age-related degeneration of this structure. The degeneration of this retinal structure occurs in "dry" and "wet" forms.
GWAS [or GWA studies; or WGA studies; or genome wide association studies; or whole genome association studies]
haplotypes [prompt on haplogroups]
macula [accept macular degeneration; antiprompt, i.e. "can you be less specific?" on "fovea"]
These formulas give the derivatives of the tangent, normal, and binormal unit vectors with respect to arclength. For 10 points each:
Name these formulas that describe the kinetic properties of a particle moving along a curve in Euclidean space.
The coefficients of the Frenet-Serret formulas are curvature and this other quantity, which measures the speed of rotation of the bi-normal vector. Coulomb invented a "balance" named for this quantity that is used to measure very weak forces, especially in experiments on gravitation.
The first of these identities sets the exterior covariant derivative of the torsion form equal to the wedge product of the curvature form and solder form. They reduce the number of independent Einstein field equations from 10 to 6.
Frenet-Serret formulas
torsion
Bianchi identities
In this technique, the stationary phase has functional groups that participate in Coulombic interactions with the analyte of interest. For 10 points each:
Name this chromatography technique that allows for the isolation of compounds based on their charge.
When isolating ions from coal, one observes an increasing selectivity of ion exchange for divalent cations from manganese through copper. That series mirrors this series that shows an increasing stability of high-spin octahedral metal complexes of first-row transition metals for replacing water by other ligands.
The Irving-Williams series is predicted by this theory, which assumes fully electrostatic interactions between the metal and the ligand. It predicts a splitting of d orbitals into e-sub-g and t-sub-2g levels.
ion-exchange chromatography [or ion chromatography; prompt on partial]
Irving-Williams series [prompt on partial answer]
crystal field theory
These constructs are necessary for one solution of the function argument problem. For 10 points each:
Name these duples whose first element is a function and whose second element is the namespace for non-local variables of that function. They are used in continuation passing style.
In this programming language, named after a British TV show, function closures are used to implement function decorators. This scripting language is an alternative to PHP that uses indented white space for syntactic purposes.
Python and PHP are the scripting languages that comprise the last component of this acronym for a solution stack. The other three components are a certain operating system, a certain web server, and a database solution.
function closures
Python
LAMP stack solution [accept anything that mentions LAMP]
Points lower on these graphs represent increasingly stable species. For 10 points each:
Name these representations that are constructed by calculating the standard electrode potentials for species in various oxidation states for a given element, and fitting a curve through those points.
A convex curve connecting species A, B, and C in a Frost diagram suggests that species A and C will undergo this type of reaction.
Frost diagrams are constructed at a constant value for this property, which is commonly measured using electrodes that exploit the fact that the electrode potential is roughly proportional to this quantity.
Frost-Ebsworth Diagrams
comproportionation [or symproportionation; do not accept or prompt on "disproportionation"]
pH
It states that the mean value of "e to the minus W over k T" equals "e to the minus delta F over k T." For 10 points each:
Anyone, especially Chris Ray, can use this equality to determine the change in free energy when a system is driven out of equilibrium by averaging the work done over a large number of trials.
Importantly, the Jarzynski equality is valid for processes that do not satisfy this condition. This kind of process minimizes inefficiency due to heat loss and is exemplified by the Carnot cycle.
The Jarzynski equality can be derived from the Crooks equation, which is a special case of this theorem. It gives the probability that an isolated system's entropy will spontaneously decrease.
Jarzynski equality
reversible [accept word forms; prompt on "quasistatic"]
fluctuation theorem [do not accept or prompt on "fluctuation-dissipation (theorem)"]
The Buckingham-Reiner equation gives the laminar flow friction factor for these materials. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of material that does not flow below a threshold value of shear stress, then behaves as a fluid above that threshold. Examples include sludge and toothpaste.
Bingham plastics are, like thixotropic fluids, an example of this class of fluids. Most of them have a viscosity dependent on the shear rate.
The first term in the Buckingham-Reiner equation is the Darcy friction factor, which is equal to this number divided by the Reynolds number in the case of laminar flow.
Bingham plastic fluids [prompt on, but do not reveal, "non-Newtonian (fluids)"]
non-Newtonian fluids
64
A formalism in this discipline uses the linear adiabatic wave equation when higher order pulsations can be neglected. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline that probes stellar interiors through energy pulsations, analogous to how geophysicists probe the Earth's interior by studying p-waves and s-waves.
The rapid pulsation of AP stars and ZZ Ceti stars is driven by this phenomenon, in which opacity increases as a star's interior becomes more pressurized. The Kramer's relation describes this phenomenon.
By assuming the Eddington model of pulsation, one can use the equation of state for a star in hydrostatic equilibrium to derive the equation named for the pulsation period and this other quantity. That equation states that the pulsation period is inversely proportional to this state variable of a star.
asteroseismology [accept descriptive equivalents such as stellar seismology or the study of seismology in stars; do not accept or prompt on answers including "starquakes"]
kappa mechanism
mean density [accept the period mean density relation]
This rule is often stated as "cells that fire together, wire together." For 10 points each:
Name this rule stating that excitation of two neurons at the same time results in stronger connections between them. It was introduced by the Canadian neurobiologist who wrote The Organization of Behavior.
Hebb's rule is an important result for this phenomenon, which states that the brain changes and adapts as a result of experiences, even after childhood.
These two contrasting concepts, which are the simplest examples of non-associative learning, describe the decrease or increase in the magnitude of response to a repeatedly presented stimulus. Name both.
Hebb's rule [accept Hebb's postulate or Hebb's theory; accept Hebbian instead of "Hebb"]
brain plasticity [accept synaptic plasticity; accept neuroplasticity]
habituation and sensitization [accept word forms for both parts; accept in any order]
This term is defined as the heat transfer coefficient times characteristic length over thermal conductivity. For 10 points each:
Name this number that characterizes a solid's heat conduction along with the Fourier number. This number is a measure of the relative importance of the resistance to heat transfer inside a body compared to at the body's surface.
When the Biot number is less than 0.1, thermal systems can be accurately described by a model named for this quantity's "lumped" form. Graphene has two different values of this quantity's "quantum" form, which Serge Luryi defined as fundamental charge squared times density of states in the case of a 2-D electron gas.
When the lumped capacitance model is used, Fourier's law of heat conduction simplifies to this empirical law. It states that the rate of heat loss is proportional to the temperature difference between a body and its surroundings.
Biot number
capacitance [or lumped capacitance model; or quantum capacitance]
Newton's law of cooling [prompt on "Newton's law" or "law of cooling"]
This virus's gp350/220 envelope protein interacts with CD21 to allow it to enter B cells, and BZLF1 and BRLF1 mediate its switch from latency into the lytic cycle. For 10 points each:
Name this virus, which is strongly implicated in a disease that is subdivided into nodular sclerosis and lymphocyte-predominant types.
Nodular sclerosis and lymphocyte-rich are subtypes of this type of cancer, which is treated by the ABVD chemotherapy cocktail. Lymphomas are divided into this type of cancer and the "non" this type.
Hodgkin's Lymphoma is diagnosed based on the presence of these giant cells, which house characteristically large nucleoli. These cells come in "lacunar," "pleomorphic," and "mummy" types.
Epstein-Barr virus [accept EBV]
Hodgkin's lymphoma [accept non-Hodgkin's lymphoma]
Reed-Sternberg cells [or RSCs]
Name these programming paradigms, for 10 points each.
Shor's algorithm and Grover's algorithm are procedures that are used with this paradigm of computing, which makes use of entangled states in qubits to perform operations on data.
Gerardo Beni introduced the term for this metaheuristic in problem solving, which seeks to solve constraint problems by using collective behavior, such as ant colony optimization or self-propelled particles.
This kind of programming, whose name was coined by Alexander Stepanov, involves writing templates and algorithms so that the typing can be determined later. Abstract base classes and concepts are implemented in languages that support it.
quantum computing
swarm intelligence
generic programming
The relative compositions of substance undergoing in this condition are given by the "lever-rule" that operates on the horizontal "tie-lines" drawn in a region representing this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this condition that is represented by points that lie between the bubble-point temperature and dew-point temperature curves on a Pxy diagram.
Phase equilibrium behavior can be modeled using fugacities and activities of individual components using the gamma-phi method, or a different method that only uses one of these relations. For an ideal gas, one of these relations gives the molar volume as a product of R times T times one over P.
This man names a method of calculating activities of mixtures, in which the excess Gibbs energy is related to a power series of the mole fractions. He was a meteorologist who dabbled in thermodynamics.
vapor-liquid equilibrium [or VL; or VLE; prompt on "equilibrium" or "phase equilibrium"; accept descriptive answers that suggest "liquid and gas" or "liquid and vapor" are both present]
equations of state [or word forms; accept EOS; anti-prompt, i.e. "Can you be less specific" on "ideal gas law"]
Max Margules
The dominant mutant marker Sb[1] ["S-b-one"] is included on the Tm3 version of these structures, and all of them contain recessive deleterious mutations and inversion breakpoints. For 10 points each:
Name these chromosomes that are used to maintain deleterious mutations.
Balancer chromosomes are most commonly used by geneticists who study this organism, whose use as a model was spearheaded by Thomas Hunt Morgan.
Larval fruit fly salivary cells can house these gigantic chromosomes, which form when cells undergo endoreplication, during which they perform DNA replication but do not undergo mitosis.
balancer chromosomes
Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit flies; or D. melanogaster; or Dmel]
polytene chromosomes [accept word forms like polyteny]
The Greenshields model of this phenomenon posits a linear relationship between speed and density, thus giving a parabola on the fundamental diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon studied by civil engineers that may be "calmed" using devices like chicanes and "bulb-outs."
Traffic flow is modeled using network flows, which are directed graphs in which edges have an associated capacity. Vertices in which the net flow is negative are called sinks, while ones where the net flow is positive are given this name.
For pipe network flows, this method allows one to determine the flow of any particular area in the pipe by iteratively solving the Hazen-Williams or Darcy-Weisbach equation. It sounds like it's doubly eponymous, but it is named for a single University of Illinois structural engineer.
traffic flow [accept anything that indicates auto traffic]
sources
Hardy Cross method
Australian physicist Sundance Bilson-Thompson has proposed an extension to this theory in which fundamental quantities such as charge and color are topological properties of spacetime ribbons called helons. For 10 points each:
Name this "theory of everything" candidate that attempts to link quantum mechanics and general relativity by describing the universe as a spin foam arising from the interaction of spin networks quantized at the Planck length.
Loop quantum gravity uses these variables to rewrite the metric canonical coordinates of general relativity in terms of an SU(2) ["S-U-2"] gauge field, thereby turning the Hamiltonian constraint into a polynomial expression.
An open problem in LQG is the value of the Immirzi parameter, which depends on the result of applying this technique to the universal gravitational constant. This technique consists of replacing physical constants with measurable quantities via the addition of virtual particle loops.
loop quantum gravity [prompt on "LQG"]
Ashtekar variables
renormalization
In the Nicolau taxol synthesis, a compound named for Ojima that has this functional group is added in the tail-addition step. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds whose smallest types can also be called aziri-dinones. Another specific type of this functional group, which is found in cephalosporins, has an N-bonded carbon two carbons away from the carbonyl carbon.
Lactams are not to be confused with lactones, which have this functional group in their cycle. They are created by refluxing a carboxylic acid and an alcohol in a reaction named for Emil Fischer.
This other lactam is formed by adding an oxime group onto cyclohexane, and then doing a Beckmann rearrangement in acidic conditions to generate this compound. This compound is the monomer in the industrial synthesis of Nylon-6.
lactams [prompt on amides]
ester [accept Fischer esterification]
ε-caprolactam [or "epsilon-caprolactam" or 1-Aza-2-cycloheptanone or 2- Azacycloheptanone; prompt on "capro"]
Moons, asteroids, and the Earth's crust are predominantly made up of this class of minerals. For 10 points each:
Name this class of minerals that includes asbestos, quartz, and olivine. They contain oxygen and a namesake semi-metal that comprises much of the Earth's crust.
This class of silicates includes cummingtonite and holmquistite. These silicates always contain magnesium, are usually dark green in appearance, and cleave along 60- or 120-degree planes.
This group of minerals is the most common amphibole. It was named for the fact that it was frequently confused with ores, and it is often misidentified as augite.
silicates
amphiboles
hornblende
In 2012, Sayers et al. observed this effect for the first time in the galaxy cluster MACS J0717. For 10 points each:
Name this kinetic component of the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect that is predominant at small angular scales.
The amplitude of the Ostriker-Vishniac is constrained by the fraction of primordial hydrogen atoms that underwent this process. This epoch of the universe followed the Dark Ages.
The Ostriker-Vishniac effect is a result of this phenomenon, the inelastic collision of an electron with a photon.
Ostriker-Vishniac effect
epoch of re-ionization [do not accept or prompt on "ionization"]
inverse Compton scattering [prompt on "scattering"; do not accept or prompt on "Thomson scattering"]
In a 1958 book on this type of organism, Charles Elton suggested that their competitive ability has a negative correlation with existing species richness. For 10 points each:
Name this type of species whose success has been explained by the "evolution of increased competitive ability" hypothesis and the "enemy release" hypothesis.
This technique, which studies long-term phenotypic evolution, models the introduction of mutant alleles as a series of invasions, and uses pairwise invasibility plots to map mutant trait values with a positive selection gradient.
A possible outcome in adaptive dynamics is an evolutionarily stable strategy, which is discussed at length in this first Richard Dawkins book. This book also coined the word "meme" and popularized the ideas of G.C. Williams, who proposed that the title kind of entity, rather than organisms, are subject to natural selection.
invasive species [accept word forms; accept nuisance species; prompt on "non-native species" or "exotic species" or "introduced species" or "alien species"]
adaptive dynamics [or evolutionary invasion analysis]
The Selfish Gene
These materials transmit information as a series of modulated light pulses. For 10 points each:
Name these materials often used in long-distance telecommunications. They are classified as step-index or grade-index depending on whether the refractive index decreases abruptly or gradually from core to cladding.
For an optical fiber, this parameter is defined as the square root of core refractive index squared minus cladding refractive index squared. As its value increases, the acceptance angle increases but so does the amount of intermodal dispersion.
These structures guide light via diffraction instead of total internal reflection. They exhibit periodic variation in dielectric constant and contain band gaps of forbidden wavelengths.
optical fibers [accept fiber optics]
numerical aperture [accept NA]
photonic crystals
Bacterial enzymes that produce these molecules have conserved motifs like the aspartate rich DDXX(D/E) ["D-D-X-X-D-slash-E"] motif and a triad that is occupied by N-S-E or D-T-E residues. For 10 points each:
Name this diverse group of molecules. Their bacterial synthases are usually characterized by incubating the enzymes with acyclic precursors to these molecules, such as farnesyl and geranyl diphosphate.
Bacterial cell walls are made of this stuff, which consists of alternating chains of N-acetyl-glucosamine and N-acetyl-muramic acid.
Antibiotics such as vancomycin inhibit bacterial growth by binding to a dipeptide of this amino acid that grows at the C-terminus of the peptidoglycan. That dipeptide of this amino acid uses the unusual D stereoisomer of this amino acid.
terpenoids [accept isoprenoids]
peptidoglycan
D-alanine [accept D-Ala; or D-A]
Evidence of this phenomenon at mid-oceanic ridges confirmed the theory of seafloor spreading. For 10 points each:
Name this process, recent examples of which include the Brunhes-Matuyama and Laschamp events. It divides the geologic time scale into periods known as chrons, and its historical distribution implies stochastic behavior.
This term refers to a partial or total reversal of the Earth's magnetic field that lasts only a few thousand years. The Laschamp and Pringle Falls events are considered examples of these happenings.
This model, named for its two formulators, is the standard computer simulation used for studying geomagnetic reversals. It is a time-dependent numerical solution of the 3-D MHD equations describing a self-sustaining dynamo.
geomagnetic reversal [accept equivalent descriptions like the Earth's magnetic field flipping poles; prompt on partial answers]
geomagnetic excursion
Glatzmeier-Roberts model [either order is fine]
The fact that many salts with this anion are soluble in water is a recent addition to the "solubility rules" that you may encounter in your intro chem class. For 10 points each:
Name this carboxylate anion that is very soluble because its hydration energy is closer to that of chloride than fluoride, despite being a stronger base than fluoride. A trihydrate sodium salt of this anion is used in handwarmers.
The solubility rule that takes the greatest precedence over all others is that the ammonium cation, along with this group of elements, will always be soluble in aqueous solution, even with the most insoluble counterions.
A governing factor for solubility is this quantity of the solution, which is equal to the product of the concentration of an ion times its charge squared summed over all ions. As this quantity approaches zero, the activities of the ions can be assumed to be equal to the ions' concentrations.
acetate [or CH3COO minus; or C2H3O2 minus]
alkali metals [accept Group 1 elements; prompt on partial answer]
ionic strength
Identify some possibilities for better storage of hydrogen, for 10 points each.
This compound can be used as a proxy, due to its great hydrogen density and the fact that it can be synthesized efficiently using the Haber-Bosch process.
Another possibility is to use hydrides of this element. Acids in which two hydroxyl groups are bound to this element react with amines or hydroxyl groups in the presence of base and copper acetate to form C- N or C-O bonds in the Chan-Lam reaction.
If all else fails, you can use hydrogen to generate methane from carbon dioxide using this reaction discovered by an early Nobel-winning chemist. This reaction is considered important for efficient resource utilization in manned space explorations.
ammonia [or NH3]
boron [or B]
Sabatier reaction
Polynomials used for this purpose include Lagrange polynomials, Newton polynomials, and Hermite polynomials. For 10 points each:
Name this task in numerical analysis that involves using a polynomial to approximate some other function.
A problem in numerical interpolation is Runge's phenomenon, in which error oscillation occurs over the edges of an interpolating interval. Runge's phenomenon occurs due to the fact that the interpolating points have this property.
This man's approximation theorem states that, over a closed interval, one can use a polynomial to model a continuous function with as much precision as desired.
interpolation [accept word forms]
the points are equi-spaced [or the points are equally spaced from each other; accept equivalents]
Karl [Theodor Wilhelm] Weierstrass [or Marshall Harvey Stone; accept Stone-Weierstrass theorem]
This scientist wrote the oft-cited paper "Homage to Santa Rosalia, or Why Are There So Many Kinds of Animals?" and was an early developer of the niche concept in ecology. For 10 points each:
Name this "Father of Limnology," a Yale ecologist who asked why so many types of phototrophs can coexist in a relatively isotropic environment in the landmark paper "The Paradox of the Plankton."
Many limnologists can moonlight as paleobotanists by studying ancient deposits of this substance on lake bottoms. It contains male gametes, which travel down a tube towards the female pistil base.
Joe Connell's barnacle experiments demonstrated the difference between the "realized" niche and this other type of niche, which is the ecological space an organism could theoretically occupy in the absence of competition.
George Evelyn [G.E.] Hutchinson
pollen
fundamental niche
The instantaneous polarity at each terminal of this device is denoted using the dot convention. For 10 points each:
Name this device used to "step up" or "step down" voltages and match impedances in AC circuits. Its simplest form contains two mutually coupled inductors called the primary and secondary windings.
Along with eddy currents, this phenomenon is the main source of energy loss in a transformer. Schmitt triggers and noise gates implement this phenomenon to reduce contact bounce.
This diminutive, hunchbacked arch-badass of electrical engineering formulated an empirical law of hysteresis loss and developed an equivalent circuit model of transformers and induction motors. This "Wizard of Schenectady" created phasor notation and loved party tricks like smiting trees with artificial lightning.
transformers
hysteresis
Charles Proteus Steinmetz [or Karl August Rudolph Steinmetz]
Four of these elements are arranged anti-parallely in Greek key domains, and glycine and proline residues play a key role in these structures because they can assume unusual dihedral angles. For 10 points each:
Name these secondary-structure elements, found in protein domains called sandwiches and propellers. The two end strands of these structures can hydrogen bond to form cylinders called "barrels."
This fold consists of three beta strands alternating with two alpha helices. It is commonly found in proteins, such as NAD and FAD, that bind to nucleotides.
An alpha-beta barrel consisting of eight alpha helices alternating with eight parallel beta strands is named for triose phosphate isomerase, which catalyzes the interconversion of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and this molecule in glycolysis.
beta sheets [or beta pleated sheets]
Rossmann fold
DHAP [or dihydroxyacetone phosphate; or 3-hydroxy-2-oxopropyl phosphate]
This model explains why the carbon-carbon double-bond length of the ethylene ligand in Zeise's salt is slightly longer than that for ethylene alone. For 10 points each:
Name this model for metal-alkene bonding in which electrons from the alkene are donated to a metal orbital and electrons from the metal are donated to an alkene antibonding orbital.
The central atom in Zeise's salt is this metal found in the first noble-gas-containing compound and many catalytic converters.
This rule from coordination chemistry states that reactions involving transition-metal complexes proceed via intermediates with 16 or 18 valence electrons. It is named for a former UC Berkeley chemist.
Dewar-Chatt-Duncanson model
platinum [or Pt]
Tolman's rule
These substances are classified as thermal or non-thermal based on the electron temperature. For 10 points each:
Name these substances that can be modeled kinetically by solving the collisionless Boltzmann equation to produce a particle distribution function. The Saha equation gives their degree of ionization.
Another way to model plasmas is magnetohydrodynamics, which predicts the existence of these low- frequency ion oscillations with velocity equal to B-field strength over square root of vacuum permeability times density.
This quantity, which appears in the denominator of the Lundquist number, is considered negligible in ideal MHD. Magnetic reconnection occurs when its effective value increases enough to allow magnetic flux diffusion.
plasmas
Alfvén waves
resistivity [do not accept or prompt on "resistance"]
This statement is proved by building a DFA, then invoking the pigeonhole principle to show that there must be some portion of the DFA that can be repeatedly traversed over and over. For 10 points each:
Name this statement that is used to prove the non-regularity of certain languages.
Regular languages are closed under union, intersection, and this other operation, which returns the set of all strings that can be formed by taking the union with the original language.
Regular languages are also closed under this other operation, in which each symbol of the alphabet is mapped to a letter of a different alphabet. Although the property of being closed under this operation isn't useful in proofs by itself, the property of being closed under the inverse of this operation can be used to prove the regularity of non-trivial languages.
pumping lemma
Kleene star [or Kleene operator; or Kleene closure; prompt on "star"; prompt on the "free monoid (operator)"]
homomorphism [do not accept or prompt on "homeomorphism"]
STO-3G and 6-31G are frequently used examples of these constructs. For 10 points each:
Name these collections of functions used in computational chemistry. Linear combinations of functions from these collections, which are not atomic orbitals, are used to construct molecular orbitals.
The STO-3G and 6-31G basis sets use basis functions of this type. This type of basis function is named for a German mathematician and has a radial part of the form "r to the k times e to the (minus a r squared)," much like the normal pdf.
When augmenting a Gaussian basis set to include these functions, one adds an asterisk to the name of the set. These functions correspond to higher-angular-momentum orbitals for light atoms, such as p orbitals for hydrogen.
basis sets
Gaussian basis set [or Gaussian basis function; or Gaussians]
polarization
In one of these devices, light is first reflected from a primary concave mirror then a secondary convex one in succession,
 this configuration which attempts to optimize clarity and magnification through a very long focal length. One variety uses a Schmidt corrector.
A Schmidt-Cassegrain reflector corrects for this anomaly in which rays passing through the edges of the lens do not converge, causing a distorted image. One way to overcome this problem in general is to change the shape of the lens.
The classical Cassegrain reflector uses this shape for its primary mirror. This is the shape given by the equation y equals x squared.
Schmidt-Cassegrain reflector [or Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope]
spherical aberration
parabola [accept word forms; accept paraboloidal]
Well-run quizbowl tournaments use buzzers. This is a well-run quizbowl tournament, therefore it must have used buzzers. 
Name this argument form which can also be stated as "If P implies Q and P is true, then Q must be true". It has a Latin name.
Modus ponens forms a basis for this type of logic which uses variables as quantifiers, such as "almost all" or "at least one".
The process of removing quantifiers from a statement is named for this Norwegian, who also names a theorem with Lowenheim which states that you can always produce a countable model from a countable first-order theory.
modus ponens
first-order logic [or predicate logic; accept the word "calculus" in place of logic; prompt on "quantification theory"]
Thoralf Albert Skolem
These ligands induce dimerization of their receptors via serine/threonine kinase activity, causing the recruitment of Smad proteins.
Name this superfamily of dimeric proteins which include its namesake alongside the activins and BMPs. They serve roles in both developmental pattern formation and tissue repair.
The Smad family is named for the Sma protein, first identified in C. elegans, and the Mad protein, which was first identified in this other model organism with a lifespan of 30 days used by Thomas Hunt Morgan for genetic analysis.
During development, some members of the TGF-beta superfamily serve this role. These are diffusable proteins that determine tissue development and polarity by forming a concentration gradient.
transforming growth factor beta superfamily [or TGF-Beta]
Drosophila melanogaster [or fruit fly]
morphogen
This model attempts to disprove the notion of "banana bonds" in cyclopropane, suggesting that its hybrid orbitals point to the center of the ring.
Name this model which correctly deduced the hybridization of each carbon atom in cyclopropane. Its namesake diagrams plot an orbital's geometry against its binding energy.
This is that aforementioned hybridization for each carbon in a cyclopropane ring. This is also the hybridization of the central atom in a trigonal planar molecule.
One method of synthesizing cyclopropane derivatives is through this reaction, in which a zinc-copper couple reacts with an alkene to generate the three-membered ring.
Walsh model [accept Walsh diagram]
sp2 [do not prompt on partial answers like "sp"]
Simmons-Smith reaction
Henry Theurer developed the "float" kind of this technique by passing a vertical silicon rod through a heating coil and relying on surface tension to keep the molten phase in place.
 Name this method invented by Bill Pfann to purify crystals by progressively heating them so that impurities concentrate in the molten phase.
Zone melting and the Czochralski process are both methods often used to purify these materials, such as silicon and germanium. The introduction of impurities into these materials is called doping.
Doping with acceptor impurities, such as boron and gallium in silicon, can be used to create this kind of semiconductor, which have more electron holes than electrons.
zone melting [or zone refining; accept word forms; accept answers preceded by "float"]
semiconductors
p-type semiconductors
As part of his effort to get a "New Deal" for these animals, C. C. Little was able to secure Congressional funding for the National Cancer Institute.
Identify these creatures, made popular in research by the Jackson Laboratory, an institute who today houses an extensive genomic database of these animals.
C. C. Little worked with W. E. Castle, who helped popularize this friar's work on the genetics of pea plants in the United States.
Working at Jackson Laboratory, Elizabeth Russell performed one of these procedures on anemic mice in order to cure them of their anemia. Georges Mathe was unsuccessful in curing some irradiated Hungarian nuclear workers with this technique in the 1950s, although the development of the drug cyclosporine increased this procedure's odds of success.
mice [or mouse; do not accept "rats"]
Gregor Mendel
bone marrow transplantation [or Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation or HSCT]
A 2014 study shows that the "d" and "g" designated planets orbiting this star are merely artifacts of stellar activity and do not actually exist. 
Name this star located in the constellation Libra that has attracted interest due to containing multiple low-mass planets found just inside its habitable zone.
Gliese 581 is this type of star. These stars make up the vast majority of the universe, can be K or M class, and include Proxima Centauri and Barnard's Star among its members.
Because no metal-free red dwarves have ever been found, one theory is that red dwarves are formed from this designation of stars. These stars have extremely low metallicity, formed within 10 million years of the Big Bang and are still hypothetical as no definitive examples have been discovered.
Gliese 581 [do not accept any answers that include a letter after 581 as that refers to a planet]
red dwarf
Population III stars
This structure accounts for the majority of the eye's refractive power, and its components include the protective Bowman's layer and Descemet's membrane.
Name this dome-shaped surface covering the front of the eye. Fluorescein can be used to detect an abrasion named for this surface.
This other component of the eye lies just behind the iris and serves to modify the size and shape of the lens.
Descemet's membrane is a basement membrane, meaning that it is composed of this type of collagen. Genes encoding for this type of collagen are what is mutated in Alport syndrome.
cornea
ciliary body [accept ciliary muscle]
type IV collagen
When this operation is done on two compact spaces, the result is also compact by Tychonoff's theorem.
 Name this operation which, for a set , returns all ordered pairs (a,b) such that a is in x and b is in y.
Zorn's lemma implies this theorem, which states that the Cartesian product of a collection of non-empty sets is non-empty.
This geometric figure is the Cartesian product of two circles. Colouring one of these objects requires seven colours by the Heawood conjecture.
Cartesian product [prompt on "product"]
axiom of choice
torus
The conversion of this pigment's chromophore from an 11-cis to all-trans form upon light exposure causes its activation.
Name this pigment found in the rods of the retina. Binding of retinal to its identically named G protein coupled receptor is responsible for the perception of light.
When activated, rhodopsin binds to this heterotrimeric G-protein, which continues the single cascade by phosphorylating GDP.
Transducin activates this molecule's phosphodiesterase, thereby cleaving and thus activating this secondary messenger. Levels of this compound are also increased by the activity of Viagra.
rhodopsin [or visual purple; accept specific forms like bacteriorhodopsin]
transducin
cyclic GMP [or cyclic guanosine monophosphate; do not accept or prompt on "GMP"]
HP is pouring massive research dollars into a project dubbed "the Machine" which is built around the new computing possibilities of these components.
Identify these components originally formulated by Leon Chua in 1971. In 2008, researchers at HP claimed to have found one of these devices, whose resistance depends on the previous flow of charge, in titanium dioxide.
One way to create a memristor is to place a barrier of this type of material between some metal electrodes. These type of materials only exist below the Curie point and are exemplified by room-temperature Nickel.
Meuffels and Soni argued that HP's implementation of the memristor was invalid in part because it violated this man's namesake principle, which governs the lower limit on computational energy consumption. This man, who is not Oliver Penrose, argued that erasing one bit of information increases by at least k ln 2 the entropy of an environment.
memristors
ferromagnets [or ferromagnetic material]
Rolf (William) Landauer
A ratio test based on values of this kind of function for nested models is the subject of Wilks' Theorem.
Name this kind of function which, for a model and a set of parameter values, evaluates the probability of the observed data given those parameter values.
Wilks' theorem demonstrates that the negative log-likelihood ratio asymptotically approaches this distribution. This distribution, whose only parameter is degrees of freedom, is often used in goodness-of-fit tests.
This measure of model fit is equivalent to two times the number of parameters minus two times log maximum likelihood. It differs from a similar Bayesian measure by penalizing less for extra parameters.
 likelihood function [accept maximum likelihood]
central chi-squared distribution
Akaike information criterion [or AIC]
Unlike a related "chymo" form, it cleaves proteins at the carboxylic side of lysine and arginine residues.
Name this digestive enzyme released by the pancreas as a zymogen. Its Asp-189 residue confers its specificity for basic amino acids.
When trypsinogen enters the duodenum, it is converted to its active form trypsin by this brush border enzyme, a serine protease.
These are the glands from which enterokinase is secreted. These glands contain Paneth cells at their bases which play a role in fighting off bacteria.
trypsin [prompt on "trypsinogen" as we want the active form]
enterokinase [or enteropeptidase]
crypts of Lieberkuhn
Stretch receptors are an example of the "mechanically-gated" type of these proteins. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins which allow for the movement of charged particles into and out of the cell.
Ion channels can be studied using this technique, in which voltage is applied across a cell membrane. It uses a micropipette to puncture the membrane at which point suction is applied to create a seal.
Patch clamping can be used to study the voltage-dependent activation of this receptor. This receptor plays a major role in memory and synaptic plasticity. Magnesium ions block this receptor in the absence of glutamate.
ion channels
patch clamp
NMDA receptor [or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor]
Identify these tools used by data scientists,
This programming language developed by Kiwi statisticians Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman is a variation on a similarly named language created by John Chambers. Tables in this language can be stored in data frames, and there are lots of great packages available at CRAN.
You might use one of R's built-in functions to display this kind of graph and see the shape of your distribution. These graphs break the data into bins, with vertical bars representing frequency of that bin. For instance, a graph of this kind representing bonus conversion at this tournament might have a bin for 10-12 PPB with 6 teams in that bin.
 Weka, a popular machine learning tool, allows you to easily run this unsupervised clustering algorithm which keeps running and assigning its namesakes to the centroids of the clusters until none of the clusters change. The Forgy method picks random observations to pass as inputs to this algorithm.
R
histograms
k-means clustering [or Lloyd's algorithm]
The area of this figure is calculated as one half the Jarlskog invariant. 
Name this construct generated by three of the parameters in the CKM matrix. Its area gives the degree of CP violation.
This large collaboration located at SLAC near Stanford investigates CP violation by experimentally modifying the parameters of the unitary triangle and thus the CKM matrix. It is named for a particle that combines a bottom antiquark with a non-bottom, non-top quark.
The BaBar experiment aims to study this fundamental force, whose CP violation was also studied by monitoring the decay of Cobalt-60 atoms by Wu.
unitary triangle
BaBar experiment
weak force
Generation of this microstructure requires sufficiently rapid cooling to avoid the impurities ferrite and cementite, 
Name this phase of steel that is produced from the quenching of austenite. Its body-centred tetragonal crystal structure contributes to its low ductility.
Martensite's low ductility can be overcome via this process, where it is heated to several hundred degrees to precipitate out excess carbide.
Martensite also describes the structure of a stainless steel alloy. Stainless steel is made of iron, carbon and this element which reacts with air to form a rust-resistant oxide coating.
martensite
tempering
chromium [or Cr]
Answer some questions about phonons,
Phonons are only able to affect thermal conductivity when they undergo an "umklapp process", in which interaction with the center-of-mass of a crystal ensures this value for the system is not conserved.
In multi-atom solids such as sodium chloride, phonons are present in one of two forms. This is the name given to the branch in which the two atoms in the cell are moving in opposite directions.
In BCS theory, long-range phonon-electron interactions cause a distortion that allows for the formation of these things, the coupling of bound electrons.
total momentum [or linear momentum; do not accept "angular momentum"]
optical branch [or optical form]
Cooper pairs
The Bucherer-Burgs reaction proceeds through a hydantoin intermediate before arriving at the same product as this reaction,
Name this reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone reacts with potassium cyanide to form an alpha-amino nitrile through an imine intermediate. Its final product can be generated by hydrolysis.
The Strecker synthesis produces these compounds in a racemic mixture. Examples of these compounds include isoleucine and arginine.
Treating the product of this reaction with excess ammonia can also form an amino acid. This reaction uses phosphorus tribromide to alpha-halogenate a carboxylic acid.
Strecker synthesis [accept answers that include the answer to the next question below as long as they have Strecker]
amino acids
Hell-Volhard-Zelinski reaction [or HVZ]
His most famous contribution to evolutionary biology posits that the majority of genetic changes at the molecular level have no overall effect.
Name this Japanese biologist who devised the "neutral theory" of molecular evolution.
Kimura also improved upon the Jukes-Cantor substitution model by accounting for the lower probability of these events. These events involve the mutation of a pyrimidine to a purine, or vice versa.
A consequence of Kimura's "neutral theory" is that the majority of evolutionary changes happen via this process, the random variation of allele frequencies in a population.
Motoo Kimura [or Kimura Motoo]
transversions
genetic drift
They are composed mainly of low density basalt in the form of ejected tephra. 
Name this type of volcano, the smallest and most common. One example is Paricutin.
In 1943, Paricutin underwent this type of eruption consisting of many small, explosive bursts of lava and gas at 20-30 minute intervals.
Like Stromboli, this stratovolcano also has a variety of eruption named for it. Located on Martinique, it erupted in 1902 and its pyroclastic flows and hot ash left only two survivors.
cinder cone [or scoria cone]
Strombolian eruption
Mount Pelee
Liebig condensers are used in this process to provide a greater surface area for condensation. 
Name this procedure in which vaporization-condensation cycles are used to separate out volatile components of a mixture.
Those vaporization-condensation cycles are known as theoretical plates, of which the minumum necessary number can be calculated via this equation. This equation assumes total reflux.
The Perkin Triangle can be used to achieve these non-vacuum conditions in distillation. The purge and refill cycle is used to prepare a Schlenk line for these conditions, filling it with a gas like Argon.
fractional distillation [do not accept "simple distillation"]
Fenske equation
air-free conditions [or inert conditions; accept obvious equivalents but do not accept or prompt on "vacuum"]
In this experiment, Phosphorus-32 and Sulfur-35 labelled T2 bacteriophages were used in turn to infect E coli, with the dead bacteria centrifuged.
Name this 1952 experiment that showed that DNA, rather than protein, was the genetic material passed on by the bacteriophages.
Hershey and Chase came to their conclusions when they noticed the Phosphorus-32 sink to the bottom with the infected bacteria in the pellet region while the Sulfur-35 remained suspended in this liquid region.
This other experiment occurred 8 years prior to the Hershey-Chase experiment and saw rats injected with virulent strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae. It determined that the "transformative agent" in Griffith's experiment was DNA.
Hershey-Chase experiment [prompt on anything to do with a "blender"]
supernatant
Avery-MacLeod-McCarty experiment [accept in any order]
The interaction between the oscillating liquid and a pressure gradient creates the Bjerknes forces that contribute to this effect. 
Name this phenomenon in which the collapse of a cavitation bubble causes the conversion of sound waves into light.
Sonoluminesence can be modeled by this equation which relates the pressures both within and outside the bubble to its radius over time.
This American scientist believes that the Casimir effect is directly responsible for sonoluminesence. With Feynman and Tomonaga, this scientist won the Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on QED.
sonoluminescence
Rayleigh-Plesset equation
Julian Schwinger
Reacting a cyclic one of these compounds with a concentrated, strong acid can be used to synthesize lactams in the Beckmann rearrangement.
Name these compounds that consist of a nitrogen double bonded to a carbon and singly bonded to a hydroyxl group.
Another method of synthesizing oximes is by performing a Suzuki coupling on an N-alkoxyimidoyl iodide. The product can be either of two isomers, depending on which side of the double bond the aromatic ring is on. Give the letters used to denote those isomers.
Aromatic varieties of these other compounds can be produced via the dehydration of an oxime. These triple-bonded compounds can also be produced from aromatic carboxylic acids in the Letts synthesis.
oxime
E and Z
nitriles
Their kink and anti-kink varieties are solutions to the Sine-Gordon equation. 
Name these wave packets whose existence was first formulated to explain the Fermi-Pasti-Ulam experiment.
Solitons were originally discovered as the hyperbolic-secant solutions to this equation that can also be used to describe the behaviour of shallow water.
Soliton trains can be generated by lasers in these materials. This state of matter is generated by being cooled to near absolute zero and were first generated by laser cooling of Rubidium-87.
solitons [or solitary waves]
Korteweg-De Vries equation [or KDV equation]
Bose-Einstein condensate [or BEC]
This volcano arose before the eyes of corn farmer Dionisio Pulido on February 20, 1943. 
 Name this volcano which destroyed San Juan Parangaricutiro Church in MichoacÃ¡n as it grew to 1500 feet.
Paricutin is geologically part of this belt around the edges of the Pacific Ocean, which contains three-quarters of the world's volcanoes.
Paricutin is this type of volcano, which will only have one major eruption.
Paricutin
the Ring of Fire
monogenetic
Ketose monosaccharides test positive when exposed to this chemical because the ketose form is turned into an aldehyde by the basic conditions.
Name this chemical made up of cupric sulfate and sodium tartarate that can be used to distinguish aldehydes from ketones.
This is the colour of the cupric oxide precipitate that is generated in a positive Fehling's test. It indicates the presence of an aldehyde.
Another test for detecting aldehydes is through the use of Tollens' reagent, in which aldehydes form a mirror of this colour.
Fehling's reagent/solution/test
brick red [accept other dark shades of red]
silver [do not accept gray]
The Yagi-Uda variety of these devices has a single feed element next to a reflector and a series of directors. 
Name these devices that convert electricity into radio waves. One type can be found ontop of a television.
This is the simplest type of antenna. In this setup, there is a uniform current distribution and a standing wave is generated between two identical conducting wires or rods.
The maximum value for this quantity equals efficiency times directivity. This quantity for an antenna describes how well it generates radio waves for some given input.
antennae [prompt on "transducer"]
Hertzian dipole
power gain
Vibrational relaxation is indicated on one of these diagrams by a curved arrow between levels.
Name these diagrams that depict the transitions between eigenstates in a particular molecule after exposure to light.
This process can be indicated on a Jablonski diagram with a straight arrow. This process is the emission of light by a substance that has been exposed to some sort of radiation.
Intersystem crossing can also be depicted on a Jablonski diagram with a curved arrow from one column to the other. That process is this type of transition which is known to violate one or more selection rules.
Jablonski diagrams
fluorescence
forbidden transition [prompt on "disallowed"]
The mnemonic CRAB can be used to remember the symptoms of this illness, which include elevated calcium, renal failure, anemia and bone pain.
Name this type of cancer that is characterized by the presence of a monoclonal protein in either the urine or serum. That M-protein can be quantified using gel electrophoresis.
One of the treatment regimens for multiple myeloma uses bortezomib, which acts by inhibiting this large complex which breaks down ubiquitinated proteins into peptides.
The plasma form of these white blood cells are what is actually malignant in multiple myeloma. These cells secrete antibodies.
multiple myeloma
proteasome
B cells [accept "plasma B cells"]
This process occurs because the frozen soil beneath does not allow for internal drainage, leading to a form of creep. 
Name this phenomenon in which freeze-thaw cycles cause waterlogged soil to move downhill.
Solifluction is an example of this type of process in which soil, sand, rock or clay move downhill due to the influence of gravity rather than erosive forces.
Solifluction most commonly occurs in this biome which contains low biodiversity and permanently frozen subsoil called permafrost.
solifluction [or gelifluction; prompt on "mass wasting"]
mass wasting
tundra
The father of this technology was Roger Tomlinson, who used it to map land use and soils during the Canada Land Inventory. 
Name this type of computer technology for storing, processing, and presenting spatial data.
ArcGIS was developed by this largest vendor of geographic information systems software, founded by Jack and Laura Dangermond. It hosts an annual International User's Conference and developed the vector Shapefile format.
Along with LIDAR and aerial imaging, these kinds of maps were among the tools used to produce Digital Elevation Models, which facilitated the development of GIS. They represent elevation using contour lines.
geographic information system [or GIS]
Esri [or Environmental Systems Research Institute]
topographic maps
David May collaborated with this man to create the occam programming language, and this scientist talked about his Elliott ALGOL compiler in his Turing lecture.
Identify this computer scientist. His namesake logic is used to define the correctness of a program, and he also invented Quicksort.
Although randomizing the input can make Quicksort run in expected Big O of n log n time, its worst case is Big O of this quantity, also the worst case runtime for Selection Sort and Bubble Sort.
Novosobirsk published a paper that combined Radix Sort and Quicksort on one of these machines used for parallel computing. Machines built on this paradigm have many serial processes all accessing a shared memory, and algorithms typically build on pointer jumping and can be put into categories like exclusive read exclusive write.
 C. A. R. Hoare [or Tony Hoare or Sir Charles Antony Richard Hoare]
O(n^2) [or Big O of n squared]
PRAM [or Parallel Random-Access-Machine]
For turbulent flow, this value equals the size of the largest eddies in the system.
Name this quantity, the distance over which an entity can be influenced by a disturbance.
Since the transformation using this group always multiplies the correlation length by some factor, this group can be used to show that the correlation length tends to infinity at a critical point.
The correlation length appears as a critical exponent in this model of ferromagnetism, whose two-dimensional version was described by Lars Onsager.
correlation length [or coherence length]
renormalization group
Ising model
In this experiment, 2-mercaptoethanol and urea were added to a test tube containing the enzyme ribonuclease. 
Name this study which showed that a protein's amino acid sequence was sufficient to determine its tertiary structure.
Anfinsen's experiment studied the nature of protein folding, a process which can be sped up through the use of these proteins. One such example is HSP70, a family upregulated in the environment of high temperature and toxic heavy metals.
This is the name given to the hypothesized intermediate in the protein folding process, in which secondary structure like alpha helices and beta sheets are intact but the tertiary structure has not yet formed.
Anfinsen's experiment [prompt on "protein folding" experiment]
chaperone proteins [prompt on "heat shock proteins"]
molten globule
This phenomenon occurs because as air begins to ascend a mountain, it gradually loses moisture in a dry-adiabatic process until saturation is reached.
Name these dry, hot winds that occur when air descends quickly over the leeside of a mountain. One example is the chinook.
This is the generic name given to downslope winds that are not due to the effects of rain shadow, unlike the foehn. The Santa Ana is an example of a wind of this type.
The ascent of air up a mountain can be modeled using the adiabatic lapse rate. When the lapse rate decreases to this temperature, the air is supersatured with water and cloud formation can occur.
foehn wind
katabatic
dew point temperature
 90 degree rotations cannot be performed on these constructs, but clockwise or counterclockwise rotations where one group is held constant are legal. 
Name these diagrams in which horizontal lines come out of the page while vertical lines go into it. They can be used to depict long polysaccharide chains.
By looking at a Fischer projection for an internal plane of symmetry, one can determine if the organic molecule in question is this type of isomer.
Give the formula for the maximum number of stereoisomers a compound with "n" different tetrahedral stereocentres with no plane of symmetry can have.
Fischer projections
meso compound
2 to the power of n
This man co-names an algorithm with John Hopcroft that finds the maximal set of edges such that no two edges share an endpoint from an input bipartite graph.
Identify this computer scientist, the alphabetically first namesake of an O(n+m) string searching algorithm that employs hashing to detect matching substrings.
Karp's paper "Reducibility Among Combinatorial Problems" outlined problems like Exact Cover and Set Packing that belong to this computational complexity class that are verifiable in polynomial time. The traveling salesman problem is also in this complexity class.
Karp also came up with an algorithm to find the minimum mean-weight of one of these features in a graph. Bob Floyd's algorithm for detecting these things is sometimes called the tortoise and the hare algorithm.
Richard Karp
NP [since all of the algorithms are also NP-Complete and NP-Hard, accept those answers]
cycles
Answer some questions about circuits.
Name this theorem which states that a series of voltage sources and resistors can be simplified to one voltage source and one resistor.
The AC version of Thevenin's theorem can also be stated in terms of a source for this quantity rather than resistance. This quantity is equal to the resistance plus the reactance.
Impedance matching can be used to achieve maximum power transfer. In order to do so, the load impedance and source impedance must have this relation to each other.
Thevenin's theorem
impedance
complex conjugate
The acromion and coracoid processes extend over this joint, which is affected by conditions like adhesive capsulitis.
Name this joint of the body. The largest bone in this region articulates with the glenoid fossa.
This shoulder problem can be detected using the Hawkins-Kennedy manouevre. Its main symptom is inability to elevate the acromion process, and it occurs due to the narrowing of the subacromial space.
This group of muscles is often torn in quarterbacks and baseball pitchers who are required to complete a throwing motion. They include the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, subscapularis and teres minor.
shoulder joint [or glenohumeral joint]
shoulder impingement
rotator cuff
Answer some questions about the Unified Neutral Theory of Biodiversity proposed by Stephen Hubbell,
Neutral theory assumes that trophically similar species do not differ in this entity, the set of environmental conditions under which the species can persist. G. Evelyn Hutchinson defined this entity as an n-dimensional hypervolume, and distinguished its realized and fundamental kinds.
This framework proposed by E. O. Wilson and Robert MacArthur also assumes neutrality between species. It explains species richness on the namesake geographic features as an equilibrium between extinction and colonization.
As evidence for neutral theory, Hubbell pointed to this pattern, which Frank Preston claimed was Gaussian when the x-axis was binned into octaves. The first chapter of The Theory of Island Biogeography derives the species-area relationship from it.
niche [prompt on "habitat"]
theory of island biogeography
species abundance distribution [or SAD; or canonical lognormal distribution; accept any answer denoting the distribution of abundance (or commonness) of species]
Answer some questions about the evolution of language,
The two amino acid differences between humans and other apes in this gene are presumed crucial for the evolution of spoken language. A mutation in this gene, which codes for a highly conserved transcription factor, caused verbal dyspraxia in members of the KE family.
Adult humans are the only apes to have a descended version of this neck organ, often called the voice box because it houses the vocal cords.
The linguistic skills of non-human primates have been explored using this simple language comprising 125 lexigrams. With John Dodson, its namesake is also the first namesake of a law describing the relationship between performance and arousal.
FOXP2 [or forkhead box protein P2]
larynx
Yerkish
This property holds for impure functions that do not cause side effects.
Identify this property of some programming languages where a function can be replaced with its value.
Referential transparency is provided in languages in this programming paradigm, examples of which include Haskell and Scheme. These languages are contrasted with imperative languages like C.
Referential transparency makes this process easier, which is performed by tools like lint and FxCop. Although a perfect form of this process in impossible due to the decision problem, it can be used to detect things like poor code style and security bugs without executing the code.
referential transparency
functional programming
static code analysis [or static program analysis or static validation]
With Hans Queisser, this scientist discovered that the efficiency of a basic solar cell is limited at about 34%, and he developed a four-layer device that would turn on or off at a breakover voltage.
Name this scientist whose namesake semiconductor laboratory was funded by Arnold Beckman. His autocratic leadership style caused the "traitorous eight" to leave his lab.
The "traitorous eight" founded this company, which spun off into dozens of companies, including AMD and Intel. This company developed the first commercial mesa transistors.
With Jack Kilby of Texas Instruments, Robert Noyce of Fairchild developed the first integrated circuit, resulting in this nickname for the Bay Area computing industry. Fairchild incubated many early startups here.
William Bradford Shockley, Jr.
Fairchild Semiconductor
Silicon Valley
This process uses an iridium catalyst to decrease side products secondary to the water gas shift reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this reaction in which a carbonyl group is added to methanol. It generates hydroiodic acid in the step prior to regeneration of the catalyst.
Along with the Monsanto process, the Cativa process produces this compound. This compound has a "trifluoro" derivative that is used as an ion-pairing agent in HPLC.
The Monsanto process uses a catalyst made up of this transition metal. This metal is found attached to three arylphosphine ligands in Wilkinson's catalyst, and it is combined with platinum to catalyze the production of nitric acid in the Ostwald process.
Cativa process
acetic acid
rhodium
This property is shared by some asteroids like Damocles. It occurs when an object rotates in a direction opposite to that of the primary. For 10 points each:
Name this feature of some planets and moons whose apparent variety makes it appear as if objects in the night sky are backtracking.
This value determines whether or not a planet's rotation is retrograde. It is measured by taking a line perpendicular to the orbital plane with the object's rotation axis.
Relative to the Sun, there are two planets in the Solar System that have retrograde orbits. That is, when viewed from the Sun's north pole, they rotate about their axes clockwise while revolving around the Sun in a counterclockwise manner. Name both.
retrograde motion
axial tilt [prompt on "tilt"]
Venus and Uranus
These particles are split into two classes, one comprised of quark-antiquark pairs known as mesons and the other consisting of three quarks, the baryons. For 10 points each:
Name this class of particles, examples of which include the proton and neutron.
In this process, high energy leptons are fired at hadrons in order to study quarks. This process exhibits a behaviour known as Bjorken scaling in which the structure functions are simplified to a nu over q squared term.
This model describes the hadrons in deep inelastic scattering as being comprised of small, point-like entities. It takes its name from an old term for quarks and gluons.
hadron
deep inelastic scattering
parton model
One proposed solution to this problem proposes the Higgs boson as a composite particle.
Name this conundrum which asks why the weak force is so much stronger than gravity.
This theory solves the hierarchy problem via gauge coupling unification. It states that there exists a fermion for every boson.
In supersymmetry, this is the name given to the hypothetical superpartner sparticle of the up quark.
hierarchy problem
supersymmetry [or SuSy]
sup squark
For a plane wave, this quantity equals two pi radians divided by the wavelength.
Name this quantity, the spatial frequency of a wave.
These equations can be used to model frequency as a function of wavenumber. One example is named for Kramers and Kronig.
This other quantity is equal to the differential of angular frequency with respect to wavenumber. For a linear dispersion relation, it equals the phase velocity.
wavenumber [accept "k"; prompt on "beta"]
dispersion relations
group velocity
They are synthesized from diazonium salts in the Sandmeyer reaction. 
Name this type of compound consisting of a Group 17 element bonded to an aromatic ring. One example is dichlorobenzene.
This reaction can be used to couple an aryl halide with a terminal alkyne via a palladium catalyst to generate new carbon-carbon bonds. It is named for a Japanese chemist.
This closely-related reaction reacts an aryl halide with a copper acetylide to yield an alkyne. One variation of this reaction using DMF as the solvent can be used to produce ortho-substituted heterocycles.
aryl halide [prompt on partial answers; do not accept "alkyl halide"]
Sonogashira coupling [or Sonogashira reaction]
Castro-Stephens coupling [or Castro-Stephens reaction]
It states that for some function f of x on a closed interval [a,b], there exist numbers i and j such that f of i is greater than or equal to f of x for all x in a and b and f of j is less than or equal to f of x for all x in a and b.
Name this theorem which guarantees the existence of critical points within an interval.
For the extreme value theorem to be valid, a function must have this property. This property holds if the limit of f of x as x approaches some number c equals f of c.
This type of condition for continuity is satisfied when the absolute value of f of x minus f of y is less than or equal to some constant times the absolute value of x and y to the power of a different constant so long as both constants are non-negative. When that second constant is one, this condition equals Lipschitz continuity.
extreme value theorem
continuity [accept word forms]
Holder condition [or Holder continuity]
These variable stars typically weigh less than one solar mass and are often found in the thick disk and stellar halo region of galaxies, as opposed to the thin arms.
Name this type of Population II variable which have lower metallicity and luminosity than Cepheids. Its namesake is found in the constellation Virgo.
This other type of variable, present in globular clusters, can have a pulsation period as short as 24 hours. The Blazhko effect describes the variation in their period and amplitude.
Before ascending the Asymptotic Giant Branch as they slowly age and lose mass, W Virginis stars spend a large fraction of their life on this part of the H-R diagram also occupied by Cepheid and RR Lyrae variables.
W Virginis variables [or W Virginis stars]
RR Lyrae variables [or RR Lyrae stars]
instability strip
It was investigated by both the Ulysses mission and Pioneer 11, which studied its interaction with other objects. 
Name this twist-like shape that the sun's magnetic field takes on when it interacts with the solar wind. It is named for an American astrophysicist.
In the absence of highly strong fields, the Parker spiral typically takes on this shape. This type of field can be produced in the presence of a toroidal field in the dynamo effect.
This scientist names an anti-dynamo theorem stating that no poloidal or toroidal magnetic field can be maintained via dynamo action.
Parker spiral
poloidal
Thomas Cowling
This compound reacts with ammonia and its own hydrindantin intermediate to generate a colour change.
Name this chemical that reacts with amine groups, especially on amino acids, to produce a pigment known as Ruhemann's purple.
This amino acid lacks the NH2 functionality and thus reacts with ninhydrin to produce a yellow colour rather than a purple one.
Ninhydrin is also used to detect amino acids after running this procedure. This is accomplished by spraying the plate in a fume hood and heating the result in an oven at 100 degrees Celsius.
ninhydrin [or 1,2,3-Indantrione monohydrate; or 2,2-Dihydroxyindane-1,3-dione]
proline
Thin Layer Chromatography [or TLC]
The Harris-Benedict equation can be used to predict the a certain value of this quantity, which Raymond Pearl suggested varies inversely with longevity.
Name this quantity, which describes the rate of energy expenditure of an organism. Its basal value is measured when an organism is at rest.
This quantity is used when calculating basal metabolic rate from CO2 production. It is the ratio of carbon dioxide released to oxygen consumed for some foodsource.
Though he was later disproven by Max Kleiber, Max Rubner claimed that for a given organism, metabolic rate and heat loss are proportional to this quantity. The importance of reducing the ratio of this quantity to mass drives Bergmann's Rule and Allen's Rule.
metabolic rate [or rate of metabolism]
respiratory quotient [or RQ]
surface area
During this period, the cell increases its number of mitochondria and ribosomes to prepare for cell division. 
Name this phase of the cell cycle that occurs after DNA replication. DNA damage can cause cells to be arrested in this stage.
Cells cannot exit the G2 phase to enter mitosis without this protein complex, a heterodimer of CDK1 and cyclin B.
MPF was originally discovered in this allotetraploid organism with a large brood size known for the ease at which its embryo stage can be manipulated for research.
G2 phase [or G2 stage; prompt on "interphase"]
maturation promoting factor [or MPF]
Xenopus laevis [accept Xenopus tropicalis; prompt on "frog"]
This man names a phenomenon that can be seen in atmospheric wind passing by a volcano through satellite imagery. For 10 points each:
] Name this Hungarian-American researcher of aerodynamics, the namesake of a "street" of vortices that sheds from small obstructions such as cylinders to flows at transitional Reynolds numbers
The shedding of vortexes in the von Karman vortex streets is dependent on this quantity, which is equal to the frequency of the shedding times the characteristic length of the obstruction all divided by the velocity.
von Karman vortex-induced vibrations are often modeled using this system when considering it coupled to cylinder motion. Relaxation oscillations were discovered in this system, which Lienard's theorem shows must have a stable limit cycle.
Theodore von Karman
Strouhal number 
van der Pol
. It is treated by inserting a catheter into the heart and firing radiofrequency waves at the defective tissue, for 10 points each:
Name this conduction disorder in which an accessory pathway called the Bundle of Kent transmits electrical impulses faster than usual, leading to pre-excitation of the ventricles and reentrant tachycardia.
This is the specific part of the conduction system that gets bypassed in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. It transmits its impulses to the Bundle of His and is defective in a condition that exhibits Wenckebach periodicity.
Though most patients have normal recordings, the classic pattern for Wolff-Parkinson-White seen on an electrocardiogram consists of a shortened PR interval as well as this unique finding,  in which the ascending part of the QRS complex is slurred.
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome [accept things like "pattern" or "disease"]
AtrioVentricular node 
delta wave 
This was developed by Feynman. For 10 points each:
Name this formulation of quantum mechanics that generalizes the action principle of classical mechanics.
One of the more interesting twists on the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics is the fractional quantum mechanics of Laskin. In this modification, the Brownian paths are replaced with these paths in which there are fewer long jumps as opposed to short jumps, leading to long tails.
One of the more useful things about the path integral formulation is its ability to derive insight into this quantity, which is a path integral over periodic orbits of period of 1 divided temperature. The Helmholtz Free Energy is proportional to the logarithm of this quantity.
path integral formulation
Levy flights 
partition function
Answer the following questions about pericyclic reactions. FTPE
The Diels-Alder reaction is a 4+2 [read: four plus two] type of this type of pericyclic reaction, which involves the reaction of two components to generate a ring.
This reaction is often described as a 2+2+1 [read: two plus two plus one] cycloaddition between an alkyne, alkene, and carbon monoxide to generate a cyclopentenone, and is generally catalyzed by cobalt or molybdenum carbonyl compounds.
This gas is generally used to protect conjugated 1,3-dienes in a cheletropic pericyclic reaction. The kinetics of this cheletropic reaction was studied by Suarez and Sordo in 1995, and the rate law was found to be second order in the gas but first order in the diene.
cycloaddition
Pauson-Khand reaction
sulfur dioxide (ACCEPT: SO4)
. They can be defined as an abelian group M with a ring homomorphism from R to the endomorphism ring of M.  For 10 points each:
Name these mathematical objects in which the additive abelian group M is acted upon by R such that the map is associative and distributive
When the underlying ring is a field, M instead becomes one of these objects.  Complete normed ones are known as Banach spaces, while one that also has a bilinear product is an algebra over a field.
The structure theorem for finitely generated modules over one of these objects states that if R is one of these and M is a finitely generated R-module, then M is isomorphic to the direct sum of finitely many cyclic modules.  These objects are Dedekind domains that are also unique factorization domains.
R modules 
Vector spaces 
Principal ideal domains [accept PIDs]
Name these things having to do with supervised learning for 10 points each:
Widely used algorithms for this type of learning include ID3, CHAID, and ASSISTANT. Often used in data mining, this robust method classifies data via root, internal, and leaf nodes.
This probabilistic model assumes that features are independent given class, then uses a theorem named for an 18th-century English minister and applies a decision rule. It is very effective for classifying text documents and is often used in spam filtering
In computational learning theory, this measure is the maximum cardinality of a set of data points that can be shattered by a classification algorithm. It is sometimes thought of as a measure of the "richness" of a class of set.
Decision tree learning
Naive Bayes classifier [prompt on Bayes classifier, accept word forms like "classification"]
Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension
This process generally modeled by using a random walk with particles sticking to each other and to a fixed seed particle. For 10 points each:
Name this process which was described by Witten and Sander in 1981 to describe irreversible colloidal cluster formation. It is not dominated by convection and describes such phenomenon as matter combining to form dust or dendrite crystals and electrodeposition.
One problem that diffusion-limited aggregation can model is Hele-Shaw flow, which is a type of incompressible and irrotational flow and thus has a potential function that satisfies this equation. Poisson's equation is a modification of this equation when the right hand side is not zero.
Diffusion-limited aggregation can also model dielectric breakdown, which is the formation of electrically conducting regions in insulators when exposed to strong examples of this phenomenon. This phenomenon changes the index of refraction linearly in the Pockels effect
diffusion-limited aggregation [accept DLA]
Laplace's equation
electric field [accept E field]
Answer the following questions about industrial processes used to form elements and compounds of chemical interest. FTPE:
Name the process where partially molten magnesium at 800 degrees Celsius is used to reduce the oxides and halides of titanium and zirconium
This process involves the reaction of benzene with propene in a sulfuric acid medium to generate isopropyl benzene, which is then oxidized by molecular oxygen in the presence of radical initiators to generate the phenol and acetone products
This precursor to the Ostwald process for the manufacture of nitric acid involves the use of electric lightning bolts to generate nitrous oxides, which were then further oxidized to nitrogen dioxide and then dissolved in water to form nitric acid and some recycled gases.
Kroll process 
Cumene process
Birkeland-Eyde process
They are activated by the crosslinking of IgE, which causes their FC-epsilon RI receptors to cluster and induce degranulation, for 10 points each:
Name these cells that release histamine during anaphylaxis. Unlike basophils, they contain the c-kit receptor tyrosine kinase and they are present in tissues, not blood.
Histamine is metabolized in the body by this copper-containing oxidoreductase, also known as histaminase, that is found in the intestinal mucosa. Deficiency of this enzyme can cause allergy-like symptoms upon exposure to certain foods.
Mast cells are derived from pluripotent stem cells expressing this glycoprotein on the cell surface. Besides playing a role in cell adhesion, its presence is used as a marker to identify hematopoetic progenitor cells prior to bone marrow transplantation.
mast cells 
diamine oxidase [prompt on "amine oxidase"]
Cluster of Differentiation 34
Examples of them include basaltic and andesitic.  For 10 points each:
Name these products of volcanic eruptions, extrusions of molten rock often classified as pahoehoe(pa-HOY-hoy) or aa(AH-ah).
After a lava flow cools, it contracts and fractures into these objects, which usually have a hexagonal cross-section.  Examples of them can be seen at Yellowstone Park and at the Giants Causeway.
This type of lava is the most viscous, has silica content of around 70%, and can erupt at temperatures as low as 650 degrees Celsius.  Like dacite lava, it can form lava domes, and especially viscous samples form its namesake spires.
lava flows 
columnar jointing 
rhyolitic lava 
Answer the following questions about doubly-eponymous equations of state for fluids, and  their corresponding predictions of vapor pressure. For 10 points each:
Name this doubly eponymous two-parameter cubic equation of state developed in 1946 as an improvement upon the van-der-Waals equation of state. It is most correct for gases whose acentric factors are close to zero. 
Also doubly-eponymous, this method allows the estimation of the vapor pressure of a liquid at a given temperature if the critical pressure, critical temperature, and acentric factor of the gas is known. Two intermediate coefficients f0 [F-NAUGHT] and f1 are calculated in the model as sixth-order polynomial functions of the reduced temperature.
The alpha-factor was first introduced in Soave's correction to the Redlich-Kwong equation of state, but it was later used in this doubly-eponymous equation of state developed in 1976 as an alternative to the Redlich-Kwong equation. 
Redlich-Kwong equation of state 
Lee-kesler method 
Peng-Robinson equation of state 
The so-called Sagnac effect in interferometry is associated with gyroscopes of this kind. For 10 points each: 
Name these devices that transmit information on the principle of total internal reflection, generally using silica waveguides. They are especially useful for high-speed long-distance transfer of information
For his work on fiber optics, this colleague of George A. Hockam, who co-wrote the 1966 IEEE [I triple E] paper "Dielectric-fibre surface waveguides for optical frequencies," earned the 2009 Nobel in Physics.
In the "Key Discovery" section of his Nobel lecture, Kao described how waveguides made from these materials failed because the confinement was not strong enough. These materials are often made by sputtering or vapor deposition and are used in optical coatings.
fiber optics [or optical fibers; prompt on partial answers]
Charles Kuen Kao [accept Gao Kun]
thin films [prompt on partial answer]
Its key step is the phosphorylation of the Cdc25A phosphatase, leading to Cdc25A's ubiquitination and subsequent degradation by the proteasome, for 10 points each:
Name this component of the cell cycle in which E2F induces expression of cyclin E, allowing for DNA replication to occur.
This other part of the cell cycle sees the formation of a cleavage furrow in animals and is regulated by polo-like kinases, which play a role in actin-ring formation. It follows telophase
During cytokinesis in plants, this structure, unique to embryophytes, is responsible for transporting vesicles to the midzone of the cell, allowing for formation of the cell plate.
G1/S checkpoint [or restriction checkpoint, do not accept or prompt on just "G1" or "S", do not prompt on "S checkpoint"]
cytokinesis 
phragmoplast 
He was remarkably prolific for a mathematician who didn't really exist, publishing the Elements of Mathematics series and advocating an axiomatic approach.  For 10 points each:
Name this group of French mathematicians who first met in 1934 to discuss writing a new analysis textbook. Some important early members included Jean DieudonnÃ© and AndrÃ© Weil.
This later member of the Bourbaki group co-authored Homological Algebra with Henri Cartan.  He names a type of topological space with frequent collaborator Saunders Mac Lane, with whom he co-founded category theory.
This other member of Bourbaki, the youngest ever to win a Fields Medal, would use Eilenberg-MacLane spaces to kill homotopy groups. His doctoral dissertation introduced an important spectral sequence now named for him and Jean Leray.
Nicolas Bourbaki 
Samuel Eilenberg 
Jean-Pierre Serre 
Recently, organometallic compounds have become more popular as both reagents and catalysts in organic chemistry. FTPE:
Name these organometallic compounds that are reagents in the Kumada cross-coupling reaction and form from the reaction of magnesium metal with aryl or alkyl halides.
Although the addition of Grignard reagents to amides generally results in the formation of tertiary alcohols or amines, these special amides, named for their American creator, form ketones upon reaction with Grignards or organolithium reagents. They are formed from the reaction of acyl chlorides with an amine with methoxy and methyl substituents. The N-methoxy group on the resulting amide forms a persistent chelate with a Grignard reagent after a single addition is completed; this chelate is hydrolyzed at low temperatures free of nucleophiles to yield the ketone.
Name this palladium-catalyzed cross-coupling reaction, applied to the synthesis of antifungal Papulacadin D, which involves the reaction of an aryl or alkyl halide with an aryl alkyl silane in the presence of fluoride ions to form the coupled product
Grignard reagents 
Weinreb-Nahm amides 
Hiyama coupling 
This result states that no poloidal or toroidal magnetic field can be maintained by dynamo action. For 10 points each:
Name this result attributed to Cowling, the earliest of a class of theorems that states that successful dynamos possess a low degree of symmetry.
Anti-dynamo theorems are some of the main theorems in this field, which studies the interactions of electrically conducting fluids with an electromagnetic field. It is closesly related to plasma physics.
The tokamak is an MHD system whose toroidal magnetic field tends to stabilize the plasma against these two instabilities. One of them results in oscillatory pinches of the column radius and the other appears as a displacement of a part of the column. Name both.
Cowling anti-dynamo theorem
magnetichydrodynamics [accept MHD; accept hydromagnetics for really old school people]
sausage and kink instabilities
FAB class 2 patients may show chloromas indicative of a "blast crisis" in one form of these diseases, for 10 points each:
Name this subclass of leukemias in which an abundance of granulocyte precursors are present. They are contrasted with lymphocytic leukemias.
This chromosomal abnormality is present in the majority of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. It results from the fusion of the BCR and ABL genes and is targeted by drugs like Gleevec.
Another drug used in chemotherapy regimens for leukemia is this alkaloid notable for having one hundred percent mortality if accidentally injected intrathecally.
myelogenous or myeloblastic or myeloid [prompt on "nonlymphoblastic", prompt on "granulocytic"]
Philadelphia Chromosome
vincristine [accept Oncovin or leurocristine]
It was developed, in part, by Michel Callon and John Law. For 10 points each
Name this approach that explains relationships between people in an organization or society, which gives equal emphasis to the roles played by human and nonhuman actors according to the "principle of generalized symmetry."
Actor-network theory was also developed by this French sociologist of science who discussed ANT and black boxes in Science in Action. He collaborated with Steven Woolgar on Laboratory Life.
In Les Microbes, Latour discussed the politics of the spread of the germ theory of disease, which was formulated by this scientist who also disproved spontaneous generation.
Actor-network theory [or ANT]
Bruno Latour 
Louis Pasteur 
The lack of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in this disease leads to increased exercise fatigue, as its vasodilatory effects are not able to take place. For 10 points each:
Name this X-linked recessive syndrome sometimes presenting with dilated cardiomyopathy in which a lack of dystrophin causes sarcolemmal rupture and subsequent muscle wasting. One form of it is named for a French scientist.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy [or DMD]
Another form of muscular dystrophy is caused by the absence of this protein's two-one-one form. This protein binds type IV collagen through fibronectin and entactin and also names the component of the basement membrane on which epithelial cells sit.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy [or DMD]
Gower's Sign [accept anything with Gower]
 laminin
In his studies, Sanshiro perplexedly pores over the abstruse prose of this Englishman's flowery Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial, or a Discourse of the Sepulchral Urns lately found in Norfolk.
Name this spectroscopic technique which involves an isotope with a 1.1% abundance in nature. Typical chemical shifts generally fall between 0 and 220 ppm in the spectra given by this technique
Carbon-13 NMR spectra are usually acquired in this mode that destroys the interaction between protons and C-13 nuclei. A compromise techniques called the off-resonance form of this restores some of the interaction data.
Although it is not the APT method, this method of carbon-13 NMR uses a series of angled pulses to determine the number of hydrogens bonded to each carbon atom on the spectrum. The polarization transfer from 1H to 13C increases sensitivity over the normal spectrum, providing an added advantage to using this technique.
Carbon-13 NMR or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy
proton-decoupled spectra
DEPT [or distortionless enhancement by polarization transfer]
Generally a tensor denoted k, this quantity is equal to the diffusivity times the density times the isobaric specific heat. For 10 points each
Name this quantity fundamental to heat transfer.
The conductivity is the constant of proportionality in this analogue of Fick's Law. This rule of thermodynamics says that the heat flux density is proportional to minus the temperature gradient
This quantity is equal to the heat transfer coefficient times the interface characteristic length divided by the conductivity of the bulk material within the interface, or h L over k. It is similar to the Nusselt number and determines whether convection and other Newtonian processes or Fourier conduction back into the bulk body dominate at moving heat away from an interface.
the thermal conducitivity 
Fourier's Law of Conduction
Biot number 
Morera's Theorem says that if a function's integral around every triangle in a domain vanishes, then the function has this property. For 10 points each:
Name this property whose whole-plane version, entireness, is the hypothesis in Liouville's Theorem.
Analyticity is the subject of this basic theorem of complex analysis. It says that a closed-curve integral of any analytic function vanishes
Goursat amended Cauchy's theorem by relaxing this assumption, which is equivalent to saying that the function in question is in C-1. A description is fine here.
analyticity [or holomorphicity]
the Cauchy-Goursat integral theorem
the function is smooth (to first order) [accept things like the function has a continuous first derivative or is continuously differentiable; do not accept or prompt on continuous alone]
Answer the following about memory management strategies in programming language environments, for 10 points each:
First described in John McCarthy's 1960 paper: Recursive Functions of Symbolic Expressions and Their Computation by Machine; most implementations of this memory management technique seek to find all objects which are reachable in memory and then discard remaining objects.
Dijkstra's tri-colour implementation of this classic algorithm of garbage collection is used to tag found pointers to objects in the heap. All nodes which remain "white" after iterating recursively through the objects in the heap are disposed of.
The default serial collector in the HotSpot JVM utilizes this paradigm for collection, wherein all application threads are temporarily and completely suspended while objects are marked and disposed of. This paradigm is in contrast to more CPU intensive concurrent garbage collection.
Garbage Collection
mark-and-sweep
stop-the-world
Answer the following about fluorine in chemistry, for 10 points each:
Perhaps the greatest moment in Canadian chemistry history occurred in 1962, when this man produced one of the first noble gas compounds at British Columbia by combining a container of xenon with the red gas platinum hexafluoride. 
In the wacky field of fluorous chemistry, this is the fun term given to the heavy per-fluoroalkyl chains that are linked by methylene or ethylene spacers to a phosphorous atom. These fluoroalkyl tags are so named because they seem to sprout off from the base in arcs that contain at least 39 fluorine atoms each.  
This isotope of fluorine, the only stable one, is the basis for a type of NMR because of its high gyromagnetic ratio and lack of a Nuclear Overhauser Effect.
Neil Bartlett 
ponytails 
19
It can be written as delta z-bar equals the covariance of character value and fitness, for 10 points each:
Name this equation from evolutionary biology which describes the relative contribution of selection and fitness to the change in average value of a trait in a population
The Price Equation reduces to this biologist's "fundamental theorem of natural selection" in the case where fitness is the limiting characteristic. That fundamental theorem named for this pioneer of ANOVA says that an increase in fitness matches an organism's genetic variance.  
Comparing the maximum fitness of a genotype to the average in a population can be used to calculate this value, the average number of harmful mutations per organism.
Price('s) equation [or Price('s) theorem]
Ronald Fisher 
genetic load 
 For 10 points each, name some things related to negative temperature.
Negative temperature occurs when the entropy decreases as this quantity increases. For an ideal gas it is equal to 3/2 times nRT
The easiest way to make a system with negative temperature is with a nuclear spin system in an applied magnetic field because entropy is minimized in either of these two conditions and maximized when energy is zero
In 2012, scientists created a negative temperature system with atoms in this type of system formed by two interfering laser beams with atoms localized in potential minimal. They are useful because they are similar to solid state systems, allowing for the controlled study of condensed matter phenomena
internal energy [prompt on "energy"]
all the spins are aligned either up or down [accept word forms]
optical lattices
Donald Glaser claims to have filled prototypes of this contraption with beer. For 10 points each:
Name this device that was invented during Glaser's stay at the best university everÂ—the University of Michigan. This device's invention won Glaser the 1960 Nobel in Physics. It improved upon the cloud chamber by using superheated liquid to detect the movement of electrically charged particles
Another scientist who worked with bubble chambers was this man, who designed a bubble chamber that used liquid hydrogen, which had the effect of combining the detector and target in a single device. He also observed k-capture and used a cyclotron to produce tritium.
Although in accelerator experiments bubble chambers have largely been displaced by newer devices, they are now being used in detecting these things. Bubble chambers are useful because they are insensitive to ionizing background noise, but are sensitive to these things that can cause nuclear recoil.
Bubble Chamber
Luis Walter Alvarez
WIMPs [accept Weakly Interacting Massive Particles; prompt on "dark matter"]
Answer some things about minerals containing magnesium for 10 points each.
Magnesium is found in this sheet silicate that often forms with muscovite. This mineral is also called black mica and was named after a French physicist who studied optics and is part of a doubly-eponymous law of electromagnetism
Iron rich forms of this mineral make up the Fayalite group, while magnesium rich forms comprise the Fosterite. This green mineral is found at the end of the discontinuous branch of Bowen's reaction series, and the gem variety of this mineral is peridot.
This mineral has a similar appearance to asbestos fibers, and is part of the grunerite solid solution series. Its unit has a formula of (Mg,Fe)7Si8O22(OH)2 and may be better known for its amusing name which comes from a Massachusetts town.
Biotite
Olivine 
Cummingtonite
Answer the following questions about amine-forming reactions and their reagents. FTPE:
Name the functional group which is reduced by triphenylphosphine in the Staudinger reaction to form an amine, and is characterized by three nitrogen atoms.
This named reaction, which is used to form Boc-protected amines when performed in tert-butanol, involves the reaction of acyl chlorides with azide ions and subsequent rearrangement to isocyanates which are generally solvent-trapped.
This doubly-eponymous coupling reaction between primary or secondary amines and aryl halides, mediated by palladium-catalysis using bidentate or monodentate phosphine ligands, was invented in the 1990s as a method to form C-N bonds. One of its namesakes is an MIT professor.
azide 
Curtius rearrangement 
Buchwald-Hartwig amination
Loss of the magnocellular cells in this area can lead to quadrantanopsia, where an outer portion of the visual field is unable to be perceived, for 10 points each:
Name this component of the thalamus which receives its input from the retina via the optic nerve. It also contains parvocellular cells which receive input from cones.
The input from each optic tract crosses at this region located beneath the hypothalamus. Mass effects from pituitary tumors can cause visual field defects as they push on this structure.
One way to look for visual field problems is with this technique in which the namesake object is used to diagnose an afferent pupillary defect as it moves from one eye to the other.
lateral geniculate nucleus [or LGN]
optic chiasm
swinging flashlight test
Answer the following on science loosely associated with the once-ubiquitous British restaurant and cafÃ© chain, J. Lyons ["lions"] &amp; Co, for 10 points each.
The young chemist Margaret Roberts got married and became Margaret Thatcher while developing soft-serve ice cream for Lyons. While at Oxford, Roberts had worked on this unrelated physical technique under the supervision of Dorothy Hodgkin, who used it to discover the structure of insulin.
Lyons operated a Royal Ordnance Factory during the Second World War, where mostly female workers would fill bullets and shells with this smokeless low explosive propellant, made of drawn rods of nitroglycerine mixed with guncotton
Lyons's best claim to fame may be this machine installed in its offices in 1951. Developed from research at the University of Cambridge, this was the first digital electronic computer used in a private commercial setting.
X-ray crystallography (or X-ray diffraction)
cordite
LEO I (or Lyons Electronic Office)
These forests are home to a species of frog where the tadpoles develop in the mouths of the males, and the kodkod, the smallest cat species in the Americas. For 10 points each:
Name this broadleaf and mixed temperate rainforest that covers coastal areas of the Andes including the fjordlands of the Gulf of Ancud and the Chonos archipelago.
This former whaling centre and largest island on South America's Pacific coast is partly covered with Valdivian temperate rainforest, much of which is within a private reserve owned by Chilean president Sebastian PiÃ±era.
The Valdivian forests are home to a number of these geological features, most notably Corcovado and Yanteles. Often found in subduction zones, they are characterized by their steep, concave profiles and eruptions with a high silica content
Valdivian temperate rainforest
Greater ChiloÃ© [or Isla Grande de ChiloÃ©]
stratovolcanoes [prompt on "volcano"]
It can occur as a result of a population bottleneck, and the decline in fitness is caused by an unmasking of recessive alleles, for 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which the offspring of related individuals show a decrease in vigor and survival rate.
This other evolutionary phenomenon occurs when a proportion of the population dies before expressing a phenotype. It is illustrated by male deer with large antlers, as the energy cost of a trait cancels out its mating advantage thus keeping antler size in the population constant
One way some birds and lizards overcome the invisible fraction is by producing more offspring. This is the term given to the number of eggs produced at a single time. It is generally higher in organisms with shorter lifespans.
inbreeding depression
invisible fraction
clutch size [accept equivalents for "size"]
Wyatt Gwyon forges Flemish paintings for Recktall Brown in this first novel by William Gaddis.
Name this psuedohalide anion, whose copper salt allows a radical substitution of a diazo group on a benzene ring in the Sandmeyer reaction.
Cyanide is one of the strongest examples of this type of ligand, in which electron density is back-donated from the coordinated ion to the LUMO of the cyanide ion.
Pi bonding between a metal ion and cyanide stabilizes this lower energy molecular orbital for octahedral complexes, making cyanide a "strong-field ligand". Stabilization of this degenerate orbital is also associated with the chelating ability of EDTA. For ligands with no pi-contribution, this orbital is nonbonding.
cyanide [accept CN minus]
pi-acceptor ligand [prompt on "acceptor"; do not accept "pi-donator", accept pi-backbonding]
t2G
These structures are classified into "basement" and "cover" types. For 10 points each:
Name these structures formed in continental collisions, whose name comes from the French for "tablecloth," which are large sheets of rock which have been moved far from their original position.
Nappes are abundant in alpinotype orogenic belts, much like these structures, which are sections of oceanic crust or mantle which have been obducted above sea level. They frequently contain serpentinites, hence their name.
In alpinotype orogenic belts, this process tends to take place at low pressures. It involves rocks undergoing solid-state changes in composition or structure in response to factors like heat and pressure.
nappes [accept thrust sheets]
: ophiolites
metamorphism
Answer the following questions concerning vicinal diols: organic compounds that have two adjacent carbons containing hydroxyl groups, 
Answer the following questions concerning vicinal diols: organic compounds that have two adjacent carbons containing hydroxyl groups, 
Give the name of this rearrangement of vicinal diols, which often occurs in strong acid, where one hydroxyl group is protonated and leaves as water, leaving a carbocation that undergoes at 1,2-hydride or alkyl shift to form an aldehyde or ketone.
Although this compound is not a lead(IV) salt, it is used to cleave vicinal diols into two carbonyl groups, and produces formic acid when three adjacent carbons contain hydroxyl groups. It is often used in the analysis of sugars.
 osmium
pinacol rearrangement
periodic acid [ACCEPT: sodium periodate, metaperiodic acid, sodium metaperiodiate]
Like in grapheme, Dirac cones, which are a cone-shaped band structure, can be observed in these materials. For 10 points each:
Identify these materials which have electrical conducting states on the surface but not in the bulk. They were experimentally verified in 2010 in a sample of bismuth antimonide.
The behavior of topological insulators is analogous to this effect discovered by von Klitzing, in which a strong magnetic field forces electrons into discrete Landau levels.
This physicist offered a theoretical explanation based on gauge invariance to explain why the quantized resistance observed in the quantum Hall effect is always the same no matter what material is used.
topological insulators [prompt on partial answers]
: (integer) quantum Hall effect [do not accept "Hall effect" or "fractional quantum Hall effect]
Robert Laughlin
A class of genes encoding guanine nucleotide exchange factors is known as "Son of" this gene. For 10 points each:
Name this gene encoding a receptor tyrosine kinase involved in the development of retinular cells in ommatidia. 
Sevenless is one of the many amusingly-named genes discovered in this model organism. Perhaps the most amusingly named is Bang senseless, which causes seizures.
The first sex-linked mutation found in Drosophila was on the white gene, which codes for this type of protein, also coded for by the MDR1 and TAP genes and which describes the class of ion channel that is mutated in cystic fibrosis.
sevenless
Drosophila melanogaster [or D. melanogaster; or the common fruit fly]
ABC transporter [or ATP binding cassette]
Because no Indians were appointed to the Simon Commission, this man led his own commission and issued a namesake report, in which he advised making India into a dominion analogous to Australia and Canada. For 10 points each:
Name this founding member of the Swaraj Party, a moderate whose proposals were rejected by his far more radical son.
Motilal Nehru was a member of the committee assigned with investigating this event. Perpetrated by Reginald Dyer, it saw nearly 400 people gunned down near a Sikh holy site due to fears of rebellion.
 In the 19th century, this hugely influential social reformist organization was founded in Calcutta. Rejecting the authority of Vedic tradition, it was founded by the "father of modern India," Ram Mohun Roy
Motilal Nehru [prompt on Pandit Nehru]
Amritsar Massacre [or the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre]
Brahmo Samaj [prompt on Brahmoism]
The first of these theorems states that, for a group G and a prime p, if p to the k divides the order of G, then G has a subgroup of order p to the k.  For 10 points each:
Name this set of three theorems credited to a Norwegian mathematician, the second and third of which give properties of p-subgroups of maximal order.
 One sylow theorem states that all p-subgroups of a group G have this property with respect to each other.  If H and K are such subgroups, this property ensures that there exists an element a in G such that a, K, a inverse equals H.
Another important theorem of group structure states that every group G is isomorphic to a subgroup of the symmetric group S sub G.  Its namesake also names a formula for the number of trees on n nodes, equal to n to the n plus 2.
Sylow theorems
conjugate 
Cayley's theorem
The Dobbs modification of this named organic reaction uses a blocking reagent to synthesis the namesake product without a substituent at position 7. For 10 points each:
Name this synthesis reaction of indole rings, a treatment of substituted nitrobenzene with a Grignard reagent.
In the Dobbs modification, the reaction begins with a bromine-group ortho to the nitro-group on the arene, and the bromine is removed by the reaction of this radical initiator compound with the substrate in a subsequent step. This symmetric radical initiator involves a central imino group and evolves nitrogen gas, producing two 2-cyanoprop-2-yl radicals.
A famous scientist with this name names another indole synthesis where an arylhydrazine reacts with an aldehyde or ketone under acidic conditions. Another scientist with this name names a titration which is used to detect the amount of water in a sample.
Bartoli indole synthesis
AIBN [accept: azo-bisisobutyronitrile]
 Fischer
Umemoto used this computational technique to construct phase diagrams of magnesiosilicates to predict key differences in the cores of Saturn and Jupiter. For 10 points each,
Name this technique founded on the two theorems of Hohenberg and the Nobel prize winning Kohn proving that the electron density uniquely determines the Hamiltonian operator and that the variational method works for trial electron densities.
LDA or the local density approximation is the zeroth order approximation to the density based on the Thomas-Fermi model of this kind of system under a constant external potential. The Drude model is based on this type of system.
LDA ignores exchange-correlation effects in the Kohn-Sham equations, unlike GGA or other higher rungs of this man's Jacob's ladder of DFT functionals. Possibly the most heavily cited living physicist, this man estimated many exchange-correlation effects and names functionals such as PBE and PW91.
density functional theory [or DFT]
electron gas [accept Fermi gas; accept free electron gas]
John Perdew
The biosynthesis of these compounds from phenylalanine proceeds through a 4-coumaroyl CoA intermediate. For 10 points each:
Name this class of polyphenolic antioxidants which include quercetin and the anthocyanins. They generate a yellow pigment that attracts pollinators, although they are not xanthophylls.
Rhizobia respond to flavonoids by releasing these acylated compounds, which allow the bacteria to enter the legume root-hair and begin nitrogen fixation.
These other polyphenols include a "phloro" form that is present only in brown algae. The leaching of these compounds from bogs gives wetlands their murky appearance.
bioflavonoids
Nodulation factors 
tannins
One member of this genus forms a symbiotic relationship with Holospora that confers heat-shock resistance, for 10 points each: 
Name these slipper-shaped organisms that are prayed on by Didinium. Their cytostome contains food vacuoles and they can be used to study membrane excitability.
These other organisms were used in an experiment by Greider and Blackburn to discover an enzyme that adds TTGGGG repeats onto primers. This genus also names a ribozyme belonging to the class of Group I catalytic introns.
Paramecium and Tetrahymena belong to this phylum of protists, also including Vorticella, which exhibit nuclear dimorphism. Only the micronucleus is passed on to the next generation. 
 paramecium
Tetrahymena 
Ciliphora [or ciliates]
. Answer these question relating to Ole Singstad, the designer of the ventilation system for the Holland Tunnel in Manhattan, for 10 points each:
Rather than ventilate the tunnel along its length, Singstad developed a system that would ventilate it transversely using two of these chambers, one to bring in fresh air, one to pump out exhaust. These chambers share a name with that of positively pressurized chambers in superchargers and some types of pipe organs
Singstad also developed prefabricated sections for the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel, replacing the use of these watertight structures. These structures were also used in building the Brooklyn Bridge and a name a disease from which Washington Roebling the Chief Engineer of the bridge, suffered.
Caisson disease was actually a variety of this condition suffered by divers who surface too quickly, causing dissolved gases to form bubbles inside them
plenum [or plenum chamber]
caisson
Decompression Sickness [or the bends; prompt on "divers' disease"]
CMOS logic ideally allows for no current to flow except when the logic gates are being switched by complementing every n type of these devices with a p type and connecting both gates and both drains together. For 10 points each:
Name this type of transistor that consists of a gate, source, and drain, its three terminals. They are the most commonly used transistor in building integrated circuits, which can have millions of them.
MOSFETs often undergo this process in which an external voltage is applied to the junctions so it can operate in the active region. Methods include drain feedback and voltage divider.
The main use of biasing is to achieve this state when a steady-state current passes through the device even when no signal is being applied to it. Temperature can change this state, which normally occurs in the saturation region and far from the transition point.
MOSFET [or metalÂ–oxideÂ–semiconductor field-effect transistor]
biasing
quiescent point [accept Q point]
It can be used as a catalyst for the Friedel-Crafts reaction and for the production of onium ions and their salts. For 10 points each:
Name this acid formed by a nearly naked proton bonded to six atoms of a halogen bonded to a group 15 metalloid, one of the strongest known superacids.
Fluroantimonic acid can be used to protonate hydrocarbons to form these species, which were first categorized by Olah. Examples include the norbornyl-type, which is well known for containing symmetrical three-center bonding, and the aromatic tropylium species.
The hydrogen in fluoroantimonic acid can move between anion clusters through this mechanism. This method also explains the movement of the excess proton in water, which results in the Eigen and Zundel cations of water.
Fluoroantimonic Acid [or HSbF6]
carbocation [prompt on "carbonium ions"]
Grotthuss Mechanism
Its namesake problem from computer science, which is NP-complete, concerns a graph G and a number k, and asks whether G has a complete subgraph of size k. For 10 points each:
Identify this term for a completely connected subgraph of a graph
This eponymous theorem from combinatorics states that for each pair of positive integers k and l, there is a least positive integer R(k,l) such that, given any simple graph with R(k,l) vertices, either the graph contains a clique with at least k nodes or an independent set with at least l nodes.
This mathematician suggested that if aliens came to Earth and threatened to destroy the planet unless we calculated R(6,6), we should instead figure out a way to destroy the aliens.  Along with Alfred RÃ©nyi, he introduced a model of random graph generation
 clique 
Ramsey's theorem
Paul Erdős (accept Erdős PÃ¡l)
The first natural one of these devices is the mineral kawazulite. For 10 points each
Name these materials that conduct electricity only on their surfaces.
The mineral kawazulite contains this element, which is the most diamagnetic. The subsalicylate salt of this metal is found in the active ingredient of a pink substance used to treat upset stomach and diarrhea.
This effect was discovered at low temperatures in bismuth by its two namesakes. In this effect, the magnetization of a substance oscillates as the strength of a magnetic field increases.
topological insulators [prompt on partial answer]
 bismuth
de HaasÂ–van Alphen effect
Solutions like low ionic strength saline can be used in this technique to enhance the agglutination signal, for 10 points each:
] Name this test whose indirect form looks for IgG and IgM antibodies against red blood cells. It can be used to detect hemolytic anemia.
The Coombs test can be used to diagnose this condition in which antibodies from an Rh-negative mother cross the placenta and attack fetal red blood cells. It can be prevented by RhoGAM injection.
If erythroblastosis fetalis is diagnosed, either a type-and-screen or this procedure must be performed prior to blood transfusion to check for compatibility of donor and recipient blood. In this technique, a sample of the donor's blood is mixed directly with the patient's to observe for cross-reactivity.
indirect Coombs test [or indirect antiglobulin test]
erythroblastosis fetalis [or Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn, or Hemolytic Disease of the Fetus and Newborn, prompt on "Rhesus disease" or "Rh disease"]
cross-matching
Name some things about cosmic inflation, for 10 points each:
Cosmic inflation solved this problem of why omega, the ratio of average density of the universe to critical density of the universe, has a value near one.
This approximation used in inflationary theory has inflation occur when the expansion of the universe is slow compared to the evolution of a scalar field in a potential energy hill.
The fundamental idea behind this alternative to inflation is that two three-dimensional worlds collided in a space with a fourth spatial dimension, a process that repeats every trillion years or so. It was proposed by Paul Steinhardt and Neil Turok.
 flatness problem
slow-roll approximation
ekpyrosis [or ekpyrotic] 
. This quantity was defined and introduced by Rudolf Clausius. For 10 points each:
. This quantity was defined and introduced by Rudolf Clausius. For 10 points each:
For a spherical potential that goes as one over r, the time-averaged potential energy equals this integer times the time-averaged kinetic energy.
The standard scalar virial theorem is the trace of the tensor virial theorem, which relates the kinetic energy tensor and Chandrasekhar potential energy tensor to this function of the moment of inertia tensor.
virial of Clausius
-2 [do not prompt on "2"]
second time derivative [prompt on "second derivative"; do not prompt on "time derivative"; accept things like second derivative with respect to time that make it clear it's a second derivative and has to do with time
 The association rate of this inhibitor with its enzyme partner is extremely high, at more than 109 M-1 s-1 [read "ten to the ninth per molar per second"]. For 10 points each:
Name this 89-amino-acid-long polypeptide. Its binding to the ribonuclease barnase prevents barnase from digesting all the RNA within the cell that produces it.
Barstar and barnase are produced by the amyloliquefaciens member of this type of gram-positive rod-shaped bacteria. Other members of its genus include the species subtilis and anthracis.
A type of analysis named for this Greek letter was first used by Alan Fersht to study the folding of barnase.  In this method, the effect of point mutations on the folding transition state is determined.  This letter is on the x-axis of a Ramachandran plot
barstar 
Bacillus [accept bacilli based on wording]
phi
So-called MORBs [morbz] are examples of this rock formed at mid-ocean ridges.  For 10 points each:
Name this extrusive igneous rock whose intrusive equivalent is gabbro.
Volcanoes on these structures generally erupt basalts that are chemically distinct from MORBs, suggesting multiple mantle reservoirs.  Accretion of arcs of these structures may yield much of the continental crust.
Island arc accretion also provides some of the material found in these large belts of basalt and serpentinite, along with some chert and graywacke.  They are often found in cratons, and take their name from the appearance of their constituent rocks after low-grade metamorphism has produced minerals like chlorite
basalt 
islands [or island arcs]
greenstone belts 
This man's namesake rules were extended by Mingos and by the Jemmis mno rules. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose rules predict stable structures of polyhedral compounds based on the number of skeletal valence electrons. 4n clusters are characterized as closo-, nido-, arachno-, or hypho-.
Wade's rules are frequently invoked to predict the structures of compounds that contain hydrogen and this element. Its nitride forms structures similar to those of carbon allotropes.
These naked anionic clusters typically consist of main-group elements like tin and antimony. They are made by reduction by alkali metals and are also called naked clusters.
Kenneth Wade 
boron
Zintl compounds or clusters 
This disease often co-occurs with pes cavus and hammer toes, and death occurs due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in this recessive disorder. For 10 points each:
Name this disease which is caused by the expansion of GAA repeats in the first intron of a namesake mitochondrial protein. It cases a staggering gait, childhood scoliosis, and degeneration of spinal cord nerves.
Many other forms of ataxia are caused by damage to this part of the brain, which is responsible for coordinating movement. This structure has two hemispheres, a vermis, and a flocculo-nodular lobe
An unusual feature of cerebellar lesions is that they affect movement on this side of the body, rather than the contralateral side. This is because the cerebellar pathways decussate twice.
Friedrich's ataxia 
cerebellum
ipsilateral [prompt on answers like "same side"]
Leptons are shuttled back and forth between two isobars in this process. For 10 points each:
Name this radiative cooling process in white dwarves in which a baryon transforms into a lepton and an antineutrino, then, the baryon and lepton turn into the original baryon and a neutrino. It was first proposed by George Gamow and Mario Schoenberg who named it after a casino.
Schoenberg later did major work on this type of  structure, which was the setting in which Dirac introduced spinors.
Gamow put his name on a famous paper that calculated the specifics of this process, the creation of heavier elements from hydrogen after the Big Bang.
Urca process 
Clifford algebras 
nucleosynthesis 
They have recently been used to factor the number 143. For 10 points each:
Quantum computers use these units rather than electronic 1 or 0 bits. Unlike a standard bit, these can exist as a superposition of both the one and zero state.
The Steane code and Shor codes are quantum methods for doing this process, which in a classical computer can be done using a cyclic redundancy check, checksum, or parity bit.
This is the complexity class of problems that can be solved by a quantum computer in polynomial time with an error probability of equal to or less than one-third.  Its relationship with NP is unknown.
qubit 
error correction or error detection
Bounded Error Quantum Polynomial Time [do not accept BPP or Bounded-Error Probabilistic Polynomial Time, do not prompt or accept on just "P"]
Trans-spanning ligands can prevent this reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this type of elimination in which the resultant double bond coordinates with the metal atom. It gets its name for the loss of the hydrogen atom two carbons away from the metal center.
Beta-hydride elimination doesn't occur if the complex has this many electrons, because it is already stable. Stable non-square-planar complexes typically have this many electrons.
This process creates alpha-olefins by using the olefin metathesis and a nickel-phosphine complex as a catalyst. Unlike the Ziegler-Natta process, this creates only short chains.
beta-hydride elimination
18 electrons 
Shell Higher Olefin process [or SHOP]
The first experimental confirmation of gravitational lensing involved a double image of one of these bodies. For 10 points each:
Name this type of active galactic nucleus. They are usually radio-quiet and characterized by excess emissions in both the UV and the IR.
This body is the brightest quasar in the sky. During its occultation by the moon in 1962, it was found to be receding at a significant fraction of the speed of light, providing early evidence that quasars were extremely distant
3C 273 contains one of these structures, which extends about 20 arcseconds away from its center. The unified theory of AGNs posits that the major differences we see in different AGNs are a function of the angle at which we view these structures, which are typically emitted orthogonal to an accretion disk
quasars 
3C 273 
relativistic jets 
It undergoes a conformational change after binding to sigma factor 70 to form its namesake holoenzyme, and its C-terminal domain contains numerous heptapeptide repeats that play a role in recruitment of the spliceosome, for 10 points each:
Name this enzyme that synthesizes messenger RNA from a DNA template. Unlike similar enzymes in its class, it is strongly inhibited by alpha-amanitin.
In prokaryotes, the sigma factor of the RNA polymerase II holoenzyme binds to the minus-35 element, while RNA polymerase II recognizes and binds to this six-nucleotide consensus sequence located five to ten nucleotides upstream of the transcription initiation site
This transcription factor's binding to the promoter region creates a kink in the DNA that allows for recruitment of the remainder of the preinitiation complex. Found in eukaryotes, it is composed of thirteen TAFs for promoter selectivity as well as the TATA binding protein.
RNA polymerase II 
Pribnow Box [accept: Thymine-Adenine-Thymine-Adenine-Adenine-Thymine]
Transcription Factor II-D
Technologies of this type use the properties of a known guide star or small laser-guide to determine how to deform a mirror. For 10 points each:
Name this class of technologies that is used in ground-based telescopes to dynamically correct for aberration due to the Earth's atmosphere.
Adaptive optics is necessary because the turbulence in the atmosphere results in this quantity varying based on position, causing effects such as the twinkling of the stars. This quantity is given by the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to the speed of light in the medium.
One issue with adaptive optics systems is that they make this function time-dependent. This function describes the response of the system to the light emitted by a small source object, and is often modeled to first order as an Airy disk.
adaptive optics [prompt on "optics"]
index of refraction [accept refractive index; prompt on "n"]
point spread function [or PSF]
This process is believed to be the primary mechanism by means of which the Earth's atmosphere was formed. For 10 points each:
Name this process, in which atmospheric components are released from a liquid melt. Volcanic eruptions in the early Earth are believed to have played a major role in this process.
The pre-outgassing atmosphere of the Earth would have mostly been lost via this mechanism, since it consisted mostly of light gases that have a heavy Maxwell-Boltzmann tail. This mechanism is less important on Titan, since Titan is cooler than the early Earth was
Observation of zircons suggests that the Earth was actually relatively cool prior to this violent period of time during which many of the Moon's craters formed. One hypothesis suggests that a now-destroyed planet "V" triggered this period when its orbit near the asteroid belt was destabilized.
outgassing 
Jeans escape [or thermal escape; accept hydrodynamic escape]
Late Heavy Bombardment [or LHB]
The so-called "statistical approach" to synthesizing these complexes involves performing a ring-closing reaction and hoping that some of the rings will interlock. For 10 points each:
Name these complexes of linked molecules in which two or more macrocycles are interlocked. The pretzelanes are one family of these complexes.
With a structure similar to that of catenanes, these macrocyclic molecules are composed of repeating units of glycoluril linked by methylene bridges. They are ring-like structures composed of 5-membered and 8-membered rings and their funny name is derived from a family of pumpkins.
In host-guest chemistry, these molecules are often seen bound by pi-stacking interactions to buckycatchers. They are hollow spheres, ellipsoids, or tubes composed entirely of carbon atoms.
catenanes 
cucurbituril
fullerenes 
Exact three-word name required. In David Ives' "Variations on the Death of Trotsky," the title character argues with his wife over whether this type of object was smashed into his skull rather than an ice pick. After they agree that it was this type of object, they argue over whether it was "smashed" or "buried."
Name this metal which is bound to two pentadienyl rings in Petasis reagent and are the most common metal on which heterogeneous Ziegler-Natta catalysts are based.
This reagent involves some chromium compound like chromium trioxide in a mixture with sulfuric acid and acetone. It is similar to Collins reagent and it is used in its namesake reaction to oxidize alcohols
Along with Collions reagent, this ruthenium-based compound is another oxidizing agent that will convert primary alcohols to aldehydes and secondary alcohols to ketones.
titanium
Jones reagent 
TPAP (accept: tetrapropylammonium perruthenate)
Clouds come in many shapes and sizes. For 10 points each:
These clouds located in the mesosphere are composed of ice crystals and exhibit high radar reflectivity possibly because they get coated with sodium or iron.  They are sometimes known as "night clouds."
These lens-shaped clouds, a subset of altocumulus clouds, are usually formed from the standing waves caused by air masses flowing across a mountain range. Their shape leads to them being sometimes mistaken for UFOs.
These wispy clouds are also called "mares' tails" and they produce optical phenomena like sundogs and halos. They are named after the Latin for ringlet.
noctilucent clouds
lenticular clouds [accept altocumulus lenticularis]
cirrus clouds
This equation describes the time evolution of a Markoff random process for the fluctuations of macroscopic degrees of freedom such as the Brownian motion of a heavy particle. For 10 points each:
Name this differential equation that can be derived from the Smoluchowski equation by assuming that the probability of finding the particle in a given state will only vary by a small amount after a small discrete time step and Taylor expanding.
The Fokker-Planck equation is differential equation of this type, which basically means random. More formally, this type of process is defined as a collection of random variables indexed by time
The calculus of stochastic processes is dominated by this man's integral in which the integrand is random and nonanticipating. That integral is more popular than the Strantonovich integral and is evaluated with this man's namesake lemma, which gives a formula for differentials.
Fokker-Planck equation [accept Kolmogorov Forward equation]
stochastic 
Kiyoshi Ito
Immediately after this process occurs, epidermal cells secrete enzymes to break down the endocuticle. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which the epidermis and cuticle separate from each other. It is the first stage of molting.
Molting occurs due to rising levels of this insect hormone, leading to the creation of chromosome puffs in polytene chromosomes and activation of genes downstream.
After an arthropod molts through successive stages called instars, it finally reaches this mature form in which  it is now able to reproduce
apolysis
20-hydroxyecdysone [or 20-E, prompt on "ecd"]
imago [or imaginal stage, or imagines if they give the plural]
A proline-to-leucine mutation at position 392 is the best characterized genetic locus influencing this disease, for 10 points each:
Name this localized disease in which a small number of bones are enlarged or misshapen. Its namesake also names a cancer of the breast that is sometimes mistaken for eczema.
Treating Paget's disease can be done with either calcitonin or this class of bone resorption inhibitors that are also used in osteoporosis. Fosamax, or alendronate, is one example.
One potential cause of Paget's disease is this paramyxovirus, the most common cause of bronchiolitis in children. It gets its name from the multinucleated giant cells that are seen on pathological inspection.
Paget('s) disease of bone [or PDB, or osteitis deformans]
bisphosphonates
Human Respiratory Syncytial Virus
This set of equations describes inviscid fluids, making it a simplification of the Navier-Stokes equations applicable to situations like lift of an airfoil at a low angle of attack. For 10 points each:
Name this set of equations whose blowup in finite time is of major research interest.
In 1984 Beale, Kato, and Majda showed that the maximum norm of this quantity controls the breakdown of smooth solutions to the 3-D Euler equations. Ertel's theorem gives the conditions for the conservation of its potential form.
This man names three vorticity theorems for inviscid flow and he stated that a smooth enough vector field can be uniquely decomposed into an irrotational and a solenoidal part. His namesake resonator or oscillator is exemplified by a container of gas with an open hole.
Euler equations 
vorticity 
Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand von Helmholtz
This thing's vector cone shares the same origin, but is slightly askew from, a related "total" quantity. For 10 points each
Name this quantum number that can assume any value from 0 to n-1, and which determines the shape, either s, p, d, f, or g, of an orbital.
The aforementioned bifurcation between the angular momentum quantum number and the total spin angular momentum in light atoms happens due to this coupling of spins in lighter atoms with Z &lt; 30. 
This notation can be used to write the angular momentum quantum number in an abbreviated form in Russell-Saunders coupling. An example for the ground state helium electron configuration is 1S0.
azimuthal quantum number [or orbital angular momentum quantum number; or orbital quantum number; or second quantum number]
Russell-Saunders coupling [or LS coupling]
term symbol
Its fundamental theorem states that the subgroups of a namesake group have a one to one correspondence to subfields of the namesake field. For 10 points each:
Identify this branch of mathematics that establishes a relationship between group theory and field theory, named for a French mathematician.
The aforedescribed Galois field is one of these fields that are supersets of a basis field. For example, the field a plus b times the square root of 2 is one of these for the rational number field
This now-isolationist mathematician extended Galois theory to topoi and other types of categories by introducing a quantity called the fibre functor. He also pioneered the study of topological K-theory and the use of schemes in algebraic geometry.
Galois theory 
field extensions 
Alexander Grotherndieck
This phenomenon's namesake integral gives rise to bond stability, as it lowers the total energy of a bond and raises the total energy of an antibond. For 10 points each:
Name this quantum mechanical phenomenon which causes repulsion between identical fermions. In certain materials it causes two adjacent electrons with parallel spins to have lower energy than if they had antiparallel spins, thus causing ferromagnetism
The exchange integrals occupy the off-diagonal terms of this matrix, while the Coulomb integrals minus the total energy lie on the diagonal. This matrix's determinant set equal to zero to solve for the energy eigenvalues in the HÃ¼ckel method
The HÃ¼ckel method applies to molecules with this property, which contain alternating single and double bonds, giving rise to electron delocalization and sometimes resonance. Aromaticity occurs when molecules with this property are cyclic and planar, and obey Huckel's rule
exchange mechanism
secular matrix (or determinant)
conjugation [do not accept or prompt on "hyperconjugation"]
This quantity is approximately equal to 2.45 times the radius of the larger body times the ratio of the densities of the larger to the smaller body raised to the 1/3rd power. For 10 points each:
Name this critical distance at which the satellite of a planet will be torn apart by tidal forces, eventually forming a planetary ring.
Planetary rings can be stabilized by this mechanism, in which satellites located just outside and just inside the ring will apply a gravitational torque to the ring, keeping ring particles from drifting outwards.
This comet, discovered on March 24, 1993, was probably captured by Jupiter around 1970.  It passed within Jupiter's Roche limit in July 1992 and fragmented, eventually colliding with the planet from July 16-22, 1994.  Many images of its collision were recorded by the Galileo probe
Roche limit 
shepherding mechanism
Shoemaker-Levy 9 [accept D/1993 F2]
This phenomenon occurs in a cone directed forward parallel to the motion of the particle causing it. For 10 points each:
Name this form of electromagnetic radiation emitted when charged particles are accelerated in a curved manner, which can be created using undulators and wigglers.
The power emitted by relativistic synchrotron radiation is proportional to this quantity for the particle raised to the fourth power. This quantity is equal to the hyperbolic cosine of the rapidity.
The angular width of the cone of synchrotron radiation is proportional to the Lorentz factor raised to this power.
synchotron radiation
Lorentz factor [prompt on "gamma"]
-1 [minus 1, or negative 1, do not accept or prompt on 1]
The zinc-finger Slug gene in Xenopus has been used to study development of this tissue, whose migration is facilitated by Sox9. For 10 points each:
Name these embyronic cells which give rise to both cartilage and the adrenal medulla and lie between the ectoderm and developing neural tube
One of several proteins that can cause neural crest cells to undergo an epithelial-mesenchymal transition belongs to this family, which contains multiple EGF repeats and is cleaved in the Golgi by gamma-secretase. In mammals, their ligands include delta-like and jagged.
This neural-crest derived congenital disorder occurs when the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal pouches do not develop property. Affected children present cardiac abnormalities like Tetralogy of Fallot, as well as cleft palate and hypocalcemia.
neural crest 
Notch proteins/family 
DiGeorge syndrome 
Answer the following questions about phase-transfer catalysis through chelation of cations. For 10 points each,
Name these macrocyclic compounds which consist of a C-C-O repeating framework. They sequester cations through the coordination of oxygen atoms.
Name these three-dimensional nitrogen-containing analogues of crown ethers, the most famous of which is generally noted with prefix 2.2.2 [read: 2-dot-2-dot-2].
Name these macrocyclic oligomers of aromatic components derived from phenol, resorcinol, and pyrogallol that are sodium ionophores where the sodium atoms coordinate to phenolate oxygens.
crown ethers
cryptands [accept: crypt compounds]
calixarenes
Two forms of this process are stop-and-copy and mark-and-sweep. For 10 points each:
Identify this process of automatic memory management which tries to recycle memory occupied by objects that are no longer referenced.
This modern technique of garbage collection partitions objects based on their time of allocation and implements different policies. It is based on the fact that most objects are discarded shortly after being used.
Dijkstra introduced this conceptual tool for garbage collection; it uses black, gray and white to determine what nodes on a graph are reachable.
garbage collection [or GC]
generational garbage collection
tricolor marking [or tricolor abstraction; or tricolor invariant]
For non-relativistic charged particles, this process mainly occurs by them ionizing the molecules they encounter, and the leveling off of it with respect to particle energy is the Fermi plateau. For 10 points each:
Identify this process whose function as a unit of distance can be computed with the Bethe formula.
This physicist modified the Bethe formula to include a z4  correction. This physicist and Edward Purcell won a Nobel for their advancements in NMR.
The negative of energy loss per unit distance is directly proportional to the square of this quantity over relative velocity. Its square divides relative velocity in the Lorentz factor.
kinetic energy loss per unit distance [or stopping power; prompt on attenuation; prompt on deceleration]
Felix Bloch
speed of light [or c; do not accept approximate numerical values]
All the elements in this group have two electrons in the 6s orbital and most have electrons in the 4f orbital. For 10 points each:
 Identify this group of elements that is usually paired with the actinides and whose ionic radius decrease with increasing mass in a namesake contraction.
All lanthanides form cations with this charge, which is always their most stable oxidation state.
Lanthanide contraction was first observed by this founding father of geochemistry, who developed the mineralogical phase rule, a variation of the Gibbs phase rule.
 lanthanides
 three-plus [or trivalent]
Victor Goldschmidt
This method is based on the fact that the expectation value of the Hamiltonian for any normalized wave function whatsoever is greater than or equal to the ground state. For 10 points each:
Identify this method that can be adapted to find bounds for excited states but normally involves minimizing a namesake parameter for a wave function to find the ground state.
The numerical technique named for the density matrix and this technique is an example of the variational method within the set of matrix-product states. Kenneth Wilson names a formulation of it and a functional form of it expresses mode elimination in terms of formally exact functional differential equations.
 The BCS theory of this phenomenon is based on the variational method.
variational method [or variational principle]
 renormalization group [or RG]
superconductivity
This genus of green algae has two cell types: somatic cells, which swim and keep the algae in light, and gonidia, which are responsible for reproduction. For 10 points each:
Identify this genus used to study the evolution of multicellularity due to its close relation to the unicellular Chlamydomonas genus.
By comparing this thing of closely related unicellular and multicellular organisms, one can identify genes that may have given rise to multicellularity. This thing is an organism's complete genetic material.
The Institute for Genomic Research and its successor, Celera Genomics, both founded by Craig Venter, used this sequencing technique in which DNA is shredded into smaller fragments, sequenced individually, and the sequences assembled based on overlap.
Volvox
genome
whole genome shotgun sequencing
Like temperature and pressure, this variable is an intensive parameter. For 10 points each:
Identify this variable, important in describing multicomponent systems, that can be derived as the partial molar derivative of Gibbs free energy.
This classification of phase transitions is based on the continuity of derivatives of the chemical potential with respect to temperature and pressure.
The Gibbs-Duhem relation states that the sum over all components of the number of moles times the increase in chemical potential is equal to the negative of entropy times change in temperature plus this quantity times change in pressure. For one mole of an ideal gas, this quantity is 22.4 liters.
chemical potential
Ehrenfest classification
volume
The gametes of organisms in this phylum have flagella. For 10 points each:
 Identify this oldest fungal phylum that includes includes the organism B. dendrobatidis, which is currently causing a massive die-off of amphibians.
B. dendrobatidis infects areas of skin that have a large amount of this protein. Tadpoles only feature this protein around their mouth area and it is found in nails and skin, among other areas, in humans.
The fungal phylum Glomeromycota is known for forming the arbuscular type of this structure.
chytrids [or Chytridiomycota]
keratin
mycorrhizae
An alloy of 36% nickel and 64% iron, Invar, has a very low value for this quantity. For 10 points each:
Identify this value that characterizes the change in length, area, or volume for a material when temperature changes.
This technique, the subject of ASTM E831 and associated with dilatometry, records the change in dimensions of a sample as a function of temperature and the slope of the curve generated by it is the CTE. For polymers, the curve generated when using this technique has a knee at the glass transition.
If one were to graph the volume of this element versus temperature one would notice an astonishing five discontinuities between room temperature and this metal's melting point, corresponding to six solid-state phase transitions. The 238, 239, 240, and 242 isotopes of this actinide undergo alpha decay to uranium.
coefficient of linear thermal expansion [or CTE; or alpha]
thermomechanical analysis [or TMA]
plutonium
This biologist denatured a certain protein with a solution of mercaptoethanol and urea and saw its activity restored when both mercaptoethanol and urea were removed, but not when only mercaptoethanol was removed. For 10 points each:
Identify this biologist who demonstrated that "sequence determines structure".
This was the protein used by Anfinsen in his studies. Stanford Moore and William Stein's elucidation of its primary structure made it the first protein to have its sequence revealed and it's found in large quantities in the bovine pancreas.
Ribonuclease A has four of this type of bond. This type of bond is formed between the thiol groups of cysteine residues and it occurs between two sulfurs.
Christian Boehmer Anfinsen
pancreatic ribonuclease A [or pancreatic RNase A]
disulfide bond [or disulfide bridge]
In this formalism, the names of syntactic categories are written in angle brackets, which is followed by the symbol colon-colon-equal sign. For 10 points each:
 Identify this formalism used to describe the syntax of ALGOL 60 and to formally define the grammar of programming languages. It is commonly used in an extended form, which adds regular expression wildcards.
As Wikipedia notes, one should not confuse BNF with this doobly-eponymous database normal form that is slightly stronger than 3NF.
This MIT linguist established a hierarchy, which he sometimes names with SchÃ¼tzenberger, of formal languages in terms of their generative powers; that hierarchy places regular grammars as a subset of context-free grammars, which are a subset of context-sensitive grammars, which are a subset of unrestricted grammars.
BNF [or Backus-Naur formalism; or Backus normal formalism; or "form" or "notation" in place of formalism]
BCNF [or Bocye-Codd normal form]
Noam Chomsky [or Nim Chimpsky]
One species in this genus is commonly diagnosed using the germ-tube test and that species is usually behind vaginal yeast infections. For 10 points each:
Identify this genus that includes such species as albicans, glabrata, tropicalis, and parapsilosis.
Candida albicans is an example of this type of pathogen, which is normally harmless or commensal, but can cause disease when their host's resistance is low, such as when the immune system is compromised or the population of normal microbes is disrupted by broad-spectrum antibiotics.
This type of pneumonia is common in immunocompromised patients. It is caused by the jiroveci species of a namesake fungal genus.
Candida
opportunistic [or word forms]
Pneumocystis pneumonia [or PCP; or PJP]
OpenFOAM is a popular software package used in this field. For 10 points each:
Identify this subfield of fluid mechanics concerned with numerical solutions to fluid flows.
Of the many numerical methods used in CFD and other PDE problems, this one is probably the most common, beating out the finite difference and finite-volume methods.
The finite element method was originated by Richard Courant, who proposed using piecewise linear functions on this type of mesh, which was used because squares, hexagons, and this shape are the only regular tessellation of a plane.
CFD [or computational fluid dynamics; prompt on computational fluid mechanics; prompt on CFM]
finite element method [or finite element analysis; or FEM; or FEA]
triangular [or word forms]
Answer the following about www.oneweirdkerneltrick.com, which contains the work of David Fouhey and Daniel Maturana for SIGBOVIK 2013. For 10 points each:
One can use the titular one weird kernel trick to find this thing, which is used to delineate data from two data classes in support vector machines. One usually wants to maximize its margin.
 In the paper "Cat Basis Pursuit", Fouhey and Maturana mention the problems of purrincipal catponent analysis and lament that it does not provide a basis of this type. This term is generally applied to matrices that consist mostly of zeros, for some definition of mostly, and they often appear in numerical analysis of PDEs.
 In their papers on n-polytope schemes, which are not pyramid schemes, and "The Kardashian Kernel", Fouhey and Maturana mention in passing the "curse" that occurs when using too many of these. It's also what the "n" refers to n-polytope.
 the separating hyperplane [or decision boundary]
sparse [or spurse]
number of dimensions
Glycogen phosphorylase is an example of an enzyme that is regulated by this method and allosteric regulation. For 10 points each:
Identify this form of enzyme activity regulation whose most prominent example is phosphorylation.
Phosphorylation is an example of covalent modification that has this property because the attached phosphate group can be removed. Types of enzyme inhibition that have this property include competitive, uncompetitive, mixed and non-competitive.
Phosphatases remove the phosphate group attached in phosphorylation by catalyzing this reaction. It's also how the phosphate groups of ATP are removed to form ADP or AMP.
 post-translational covalent modification [or covalent regulation]
reversible [or word forms]
hydrolysis [prompt on saccharification]
The electroweak unification of Glashow, Weinberg, and Salam predicted the existence of this boson. For 10 points each:
Identify this weak boson grouped with the W+  and W-  bosons.
These weak processes are mediated by the Z boson, which does not change the lepton or quark flavor.
The resonant cross-section for particles, including the Z boson, can be described by this distribution. It is a generalized form of the Cauchy distribution.
Z 0  boson
neutral current weak processes
Breit-Wigner distribution [or Lorentz distribution]
This constant appears in the Morse potential and, due to its small size, its value is sometimes reported as multiplied by harmonic vibrational frequency. For 10 points each:
 Identify this constant represented by chi-sub-e that accounts for deviations from ideal harmonic behavior.
The Morse potential is used to model this type of molecule. This type of molecule contains TWO atoms.
The well depth parameter of the Morse potential is related to this parameter by subtracting the vibrational energy of the ground state. It is the enthalpy required to cleave a bond by homolysis.
anharmonicity constant
diatomic molecule
bond dissociation energy [or BDE]
Patterns of these things include semi-diurnal, diurnal, and mixed. For 10 points each:
 Identify these regular falls and rises in sea level.
These nodes near the center of an ocean basin are points where there is no tidal range. The tidal crest rotates around these nodes.
These lines form irregular, concentric circles around an amphidromic point. They connect points of equal tidal ranges.
tides
amphidromes [or amphidromic points; or amphidromal points]
corange lines
This theorem can be stated as the volume enclosed by any closed surface is a constant as the surface moves around in phase space. For 10 points each:
Identify this theorem which states that the gradient of the Hamiltonian of a system is zero, or flows in phase space are incompressible.
In quantum mechanics, this property of the propagator is implied by Liouville's theorem. Wigner's theorem states that a mapping from a Hilbert space to itself can be thought of as this type of operator, which preserves the inner product and is surjective.
Wigner's theorem is equivalent to the statement that symmetries in quantum mechanics are represented by unitary operators, or in the case of this symmetry, by an anti-unitary operator. It is paired with charge conjugation and parity symmetry.
Liouville's theorem
 it is a unitary operator [or unitarity; do not accept "anti-unitary"]
time reversal symmetry [or T-symmetry]
The foundational text on these organisms was written by Charles S. Elton and published in 1958. For 10 points each:
 Identify these non-indigenous organisms that threaten biological diversity and fuck things up.
 Part of the success of this invasive aquatic plant is due to its production of turions and tubers. The only herbicide allowed to be used on this noxious weed is fluridone, and it is the most serious aquatic weed problem in the United States.
Invasive bark beetles in the Scolytus genus spread the fungi Ophiostoma ulmi between these trees, causing a namesake disease. These trees are also affected by a namesake phloem necrosis.
invasive species [or invasive exotics]
Hydrilla verticillata [or Esthwaite waterweed]
American elm [or Dutch elm; Ulmus americana; or white elm; or water elm]
This constant originally appeared multiplied by the metric tensor on the left hand side of the Einstein field equations. For 10 points each:
 Identify this constant that Einstein introduced to general relativity in order to achieve a static universe, but would later call his "greatest mistake".
This standard model of Big Bang cosmology incorporates the cosmological constant. According to this model, the current universe is two-thirds dark energy and one-third matter.
This spacecraft has determined many constants of the lambda-CDM model, including the cosmological constant, with unprecedented accuracy by mapping the temperature anisotropy of the CMB. It succeeded COBE.
cosmological constant [or lambda]
lambda-CDM model [or lambda-cold dark matter model]
WMAP [or Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe; or Microwave Anisotropy Probe; or Explorer 80]
Substances placed in these devices are subjected to high-pressure steam, allowing one to react them under high pressure and temperature. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices normally used to sterilize equipment.
Autoclaves are used to create the autoclaved aerated types of this material. Cement is used as a primary binder in this material to join its aggregates.
This compound, with formula Fe(CO)5 , is easily prepared by heating iron powder with carbon monoxide in an autoclave.
autoclaves
concrete
 iron pentacarbonyl
This process is mediated by the proteins RAG1 and RAG2. For 10 points each:
Identify this process that takes place between gene segments with dissimilar RSSs, which gives rise to the 12/23 rule.
V(D)J recombination is undergone by the constituents of immunoglobulins, or antibodies, which recognize and bind to these substances that elicit an immune response.
V(D)J recombination is also undergone by the genes that encode T cell receptors, which activate T cells after recognizing peptides bound to molecules of this complex. In humans, it is known as the human leukocyte antigen system
V(D)J recombination [prompt on genetic recombination; prompt on B cell differentiation; prompt on immunoglobulin differentiation; prompt on antibody differentiation; prompt on T cell receptor differentiation]
antigen
MHC class I [or major histocompatibility complex class I]
This dynamic test is used to measure notch toughness. For 10 points each:
Identify this test that consists of striking a standard notched specimen with a pendulum.
By conducting the Charpy test at different temperatures, one can determine the transition temperature between these two properties for a metal, aka crystalline solid, which corresponds to the glass-transition temperature for an amorphous solid.
This formula can be used to determine the energy of the pendulum used in the Charpy test, or indeed any pendulum, at its highest point.
Charpy V-notch impact test [or Izod test; prompt on drop weight test]
ductile and brittle [accept in any order]
m g h [or mass times acceleration due to gravity times height; prompt on potential energy formula]
 Pericyclic reactions and the Diels-Alder reaction are examples of this type of reaction. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of reaction that occurs without any intermediates; it is contrasted with stepwise.
Both the nucleophilic substitution and elimination denoted by this term are concerted reactions. Those two reactions described by this term are subscripted "two".
Concerted reactions have this many peaks on their potential energy diagram.
concerted reaction
bimolecular
one
A quadruply eponymous variant of this effect is the YORP effect, from whence the name of Zorp the Surveyor is likely derived. For 10 points each:
 Identify this effect which affects the orbit of smaller bodies like asteroids. It results from the anisotropic reradiation of thermal radiation and causes asteroids with retrograde rotation to enter an increasingly small orbit.
The Yarkovsky effect was rescued from the dustbin of history by Ernst Ã–pik, an Estonian astronomer, who was the first to propose the existence of a cloud of comets that encircles the solar system, which is usually named for this Danish astronomer.
Oort's B constant characterizes this property of the Milky Way. Rather appropriately, it is the curl of the velocity field.
Yarkovsky effect
Jan Oort
local vorticity [or local rotation]
This operon was central to a study of how bacteria regulate expression of their genes by Francois Jacob and Jacques Monod. For 10 points each:
Identify this three-locus operon involved in the uptake and breakdown of lactose.
 Binding of RNA polymerase to the lac operon is stimulated when it is bound to by a complex of Catabolite Activator Protein and this molecule. In Dictyostelium, this molecule acts as a chemoattractant that signals starving cells to come together and begin the developmental phase of the life cycle.
Gilbert and Muller-Hill radiolabeled this compound to isolate the lac repressor. This compound mimics lactose and thus stimulates transcription of the lac operon, but it is not hydrolyzed by beta-galactosidase.
lac operon
cAMP [or cyclic AMP; or cyclic adenosine monophosphate]
IPTG [or isopropyl beta-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside; or isopropylthio-beta-galactoside]
The largest class of these proteins has a nucleotide binding domain and a leucine rich repeat domain. For 10 points each:
 Identify these proteins integral to the plant immune system. They recognize the products of avr genes and respond appropriately.
R proteins are but one branch of the plant immune system; the other branch uses PRRs that respond to PAMPs, such as the TLR5-recognized protein constituent of this structure. This structure consists of a helical filament attached to a prokaryotic cell by means of a hook-like structure and basal body embedded in the membrane.
The NB-LRR protein Mi in the tomato plant confers resistance to nematodes and these insects. They have a notable mutualism with ants, which farm and protect them.
R proteins [or resistance proteins]
flagellum [or flagella; the protein is flagellin, like Magellan]
 aphids [or Aphidoidea; or plant lice; or greenflies; blackflies; or whiteflies; do not accept "jumping plant lice" or "true whiteflies"]
This gene activates hunchback and KrÃ¼ppel; the latter is repressed by high concentrations of hunchback and knirps and so is only expressed as a stripe in the Drosophila embryo. For 10 points each:
 Identify this maternal effect gene that shows an exponential decrease from the anterior to posterior axis.
This signaling molecule is expressed in segments where the transcription factor engrailed is expressed. A mammalian homolog of this signaling molecule is named "sonic".
 nanos, whose expression is the opposite of bicoid, is important for the formation of the thorax and this grouping of segments. In general, an arthropod's segments are grouped into the head, thorax and this one.
bicoid [or bcd]
hedgehog
abdomen
 One of the first three-component compositional diagrams for this type of rock was the ACF diagram. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of rock formed when igneous or sedimentary rock is subjected to high temperature and pressure.
The 'A' in the ACF diagram stands for this compound, which comprises the mineral corundum.
This is the name given to metamorphic mineral assemblages that result from a specific temperature and pressure range. Like the ACF diagram, this concept was developed by Pentii Eskola and, unsurprisingly, they are depicted as fields on an upside-down plot of temperature versus pressure.
metamorphic rock
aluminum(III) oxide [or Al2O3 ; or alumina; or aloxide; or aloxite; or alundum]
metamorphic facies
An optical lever consisting of a laser beam and a position-sensitive detector are used to measure vertical and lateral deflections in this type of microscopy. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of microscopy that uses very small cantilevers typically fabricated from silicon or silicon nitride.
The scanning of an AFM tip over a surface can be precisely controlled by the use of a ceramic with this property. Quartz has this property, which results in the production of electric charge in the presence of mechanical stress.
The two major modes of AFM are contact, or quasistatic mode, and this mode, which oscillates the cantilever near its fundamental flexural resonance frequency. It is often used when materials are too soft, when residual, mobile species are present at the surface or when specimens are poorly adsorbed.
AFM [or atomic force microscopy; or SFM; or scanning force microscopy; prompt on scanning probe microscopy]
piezoelectricity
tapping mode AFM [or dynamic force AFM; or AC mode AFM; or vibrating mode AFM; prompt on non-contact mode AFM; prompt on intermittent-contact AFM]
Answer the following about the characterization and analysis of polymers, for 10 points each.
This type of spectrometry irradiates a surface with inert gas ions and analyzes the sputtered byproducts. It is often complemented by ion-scattering spectroscopy.
Thermal transitions in polymers are typically studied with the differential scanning form of this device.
Attenuated total reflectance spectroscopy, which is the most widely used method of analyzing polymer surfaces, uses this type of light as a source. Absorption spectra for this kind of spectroscopy is indicative of unsymmetric bond stretching and bending.
SIMS [or secondary-ion mass spectrometry]
differential scanning calorimeter [or DSC; or word forms]
IR [or infrared]
Identify these people who name theorems with someone whose noted subjects include haberdashery, for 10 points each.
Marshall H. Stone names a theorem with this man which states that if K and L are two compact Hausdorff spaces, such that the space of all real-valued, continuous functions on K and L are isometrically isomorphic spaces named for this man, then K and L are homeomorphic.
Stone names a theorem with this mathematician which states that every real- or complex-valued continuous function defined on a closed interval can be approximated uniformly by polynomials.
Stone names a theorem with this mathematician that is equivalent to the uniqueness of the representation of the canonical Heisenberg commutation relations. He pioneered game theory and names a computer architecture in which both instructions and data are stored in RAM.
Stefan Banach
Karl Weierstrass
John von Neumann
The T-psi-C arm of a certain molecule contains this nucleoside and thymidine. For 10 points each:
Identify this most abundant modified nucleoside, which unusually contains a carbon-carbon glycosyl bond rather than the usual nitrogen-carbon.
Pseudouridine is found ubiquitously in the small nuclear, small nucleolar, ribosomal and transfer varieties of this biological molecule, which contains uracil instead of thymine.
The T-psi-C arm of tRNA is an example of this structure that occurs when nucleic acid strands fold back on themselves to make base pairs. They are a large part of RNA secondary structure and are found with single-stranded regions in pseudoknots.
pseudouridine [or pseudouracil; or 5-ribosyluracil; or the 5-ribosyl isomer of uridine]
RNA
hairpin loop [or stem-hairpin loop; or U-turn; prompt on loop; do not accept "bulge loops" or "internal loops"]
This type of damage can result in the formation of pyrimidine dimers. For 10 points each:
 Identify this reddening of the skin that occurs after one is exposed to too much sunlight or other ultraviolet radiation.
The double bond of pyrimidine bases is broken when it absorbs this specific band of ultraviolet light.
A human's sole defense against mutagenic ultraviolet radiation is this type of DNA repair. Defects in this repair pathway can lead to the disorder xeroderma pigmentosum.
 sunburn
ultraviolet B
nucleotide excision repair [or NER; prompt on excision repair; do not accept "base excision repair"]
The Manning formula relates open channel flow to the two-thirds power of this quantity. For 10 points each:
 Identify this quantity that can be calculated as the ratio of cross-sectional area of flow to the wetted perimeter.
 The hydraulic radius is preferred to the radius for pipes that are not full or that do not have this geometry. The Hagen-Poiseulle law can be used to find the volumetric flow rate or the pressure drop in pipes of this geometry.
The Manning formula is only valid for open channel flow that is both fully rough and has this property. The friction coefficient for flows with this property can be calculated using the Colebrook equation.
hydraulic radius [or equivalent radius; do not accept or prompt on "radius"; do not accept "hydraulic diameter" or "equivalent diameter"]
circular [or round; or obvious equivalents, such as the pipe is cylindrical]
turbulent [or word forms]
This polysaccharide is the main component of the plant cell wall. For 10 points each:
Identify this polymer of beta-D-glucose.
In wood, cellulose is bound to this cross-linked polymer that consists of benzene rings with alkoxy and hydrocarbon substituents.
In this process, alkaline sulfide and sodium sulfate are used to degrade lignin in a stepwise process.
cellulose
lignin
kraft process [or kraft pulping]
Answer the following about plastids, for 10 points each.
 This most familiar plastid is the site of photosynthesis in plant cells.
This female biologist authored On the origin of mitosing cells, which explained the origin of plastids and cemented endosymbiotic theory. She is also associated with the Gaia hypothesis.
These plastids store starch, lipids and proteins. Unlike chromoplasts and chloroplasts, they lack pigments.
chloroplast
Lynn Margulis [or Lynn Sagan]
leucoplasts [prompt on etioplasts]
The basis for this theory is a set of boundary conditions which state that for a surface consisting of an opaque screen, B, with an aperture in it, A, the contribution of B to the integral vanishes and the contribution of A to the integral is the same as if B were not present. For 10 points each:
Identify this theory whose namesake integral can be written in the Rubinowicz representation.
This principle, derivable from Kirchoff's diffraction theory, states that the diffraction pattern of a screen with an aperture added to the diffraction pattern of a complementary screen is the same as that of an undisturbed beam
Babinet's principle can also be derived from the invariance of the homogeneous form of this set of four equations that underlies classical electrodynamics.
Fresnel-Kirchhoff's diffraction theory
scalar Babinet's principle
Maxwell's equations
The highest energy conformation for this compound is the eclipsed conformation. For 10 points each:
Identify this simple alkane with two carbons.
This is the lowest energy conformation of ethane. Its torsion angle is sixty degrees.
The difference in energy between the eclipsed and staggered conformation gives this quantity. It is the activation energy required to interconvert conformational isomers of ethane and some other compounds.
ethane
staggered conformation
barrier to rotation [or rotational barrier; or barrier height]
Shizuo Kakutani generalized one theorem about these things to set-valued functions. For 10 points each:
Identify these values for a function where the input is equal to the output.
The fixed point theorem named for this mathematician states that every continuous function from a closed ball of a Euclidean space to itself has a fixed point. He also proved the hairy ball theorem.
Solomon Lefschetz and this mathematician name a fixed point theorem which states that a continuous map from the polyhedron of a finite simplicial complex to itself contains at least one fixed point if the Lefschetz number of the map is not zero. His namesake fibration constructs the 3-sphere with a collection of circles arranged like points on the 2-sphere.
fixed point [or invariant point]
Luitzen Brouwer
Heinz Hopf
This tournament doesn't have enough stuff about the Emil Fischers. For 10 points each:
Emil Fischer discovered the fact that reducing sugars with a free aldehyde or ketone group can be reacted with this compound to form osazones. He also names a synthesis of this compound, which is abbreviated PhNHNH2 .
The other Emil Fischer names a reaction with Hans Tropsch that converts synthesis gas, a mixture of this compound and hydrogen gas, to a mixture of hydrocarbons and their derivatives.
The Fischer phenylhydrazine synthesis diazotizes an aniline, reduces the resulting diazonium salt with an excess of sodium sulfite, and then hydrolyzes the resulting phenylhydrazine sulfonic acid salt with this acid. This strong, monoprotic acid is paired with nitric acid in aqua regia.
phenylhydrazine [do not accept "phenylhydrazone"]
carbon monoxide [or CO]
hydrochloric acid
It's time for the dreaded bonus on thermodynamic diagrams, for 10 points each:
This diagram is used with steam or humid air. It has curves of constant temperature, constant pressure, constant moisture and constant superheat.
A graph of this quantity versus entropy is the most frequently used diagram in thermodynamic process analysis because the heat transferred by a process is the area under a curve.
The curve for this process on P-V diagrams asymptotically approaches the P and V axes, like isotherms, and crosses each isotherm only once. A Carnot cycle consists of isothermal compression and expansion connected by two of these processes, in which no heat is transferred.
 enthalpy-entropy chart [or h-s chart; or Mollier diagram; prompt on psychometric chart]
 temperature
adiabatic process
These things provide the most accurate measurement of the magnitude of an earthquake and specific examples include "breathing" and "football" . For 10 points each:
Identify these things that occur in spheroidal and toroidal types and that are described by an angular order and overtone number.
The toroidal normal modes are equivalent to the standing wave resulting from interference among all of these fastest surface waves. The particle motion for these non-Rayleigh eponymous surface waves is transverse to the direction of propagation.
Surface waves have this property, which means that waves of different frequencies travel at different phase speeds. Kelvin waves notably lack this property.
normal modes of free oscillation [or free oscillations; prompt on harmonics; prompt on fundamental modes]
Love waves [or Q waves]
dispersive [or word forms]
As the great Lewis Wolpert once said: "It is not birth, marriage or death, but [this process] which is truly the most important time in your life." For 10 points each:
Identify this process in which the blastula is reorganized to form the three primary germ layers.
These pictorial representations are used to trace the development pathway of specific parts of an embryo. Walter Vogt is particularly associated with the creation of them
The three germ layers formed in gastrulation are the ectoderm, this one, and the endoderm. Its name is rather appropriate since its the middle layer.
gastrulation
fate map
mesoderm
Identify some things about seminal experiments in ecology, for 10 points each.
C. B. Huffaker's experiments with these creatures showed how spatial heterogeneity can stabilize an otherwise unstable predator-prey reaction. The experiments used oranges as a food source and, in one case, the habitat was fragmented by rubber balls.
Daniel Simberloff and E. O. Wilson tested the equilibrium theory of this field by defaunating small patches of red mangroves and following their recolonization. This field was started by Robert MacArthur and Wilson, who wrote an influential book about The Theory of [it].
Isle Royale, found in Lake Superior, is the setting of a long running study of the predator-prey dynamic between these animals and moose. These keystone predators are commonly used to illustrate terrestrial trophic cascades because elk populations explode in their absence, which leads to a decline in low-lying vegetation.
mites
island biogeography [or IB]
wolves [or eastern wolves; or gray wolves; or eastern timber wolves; or eastern gray wolves; or Eastern Canadian red wolves]
The spin form of this effect is observed when a thermal gradient applied to a spin-polarized material leads to a spatially varying transverse spin current in an adjacent non-spin-polarized material, where it gets converted into a measurable voltage. For 10 points each:
Name this effect used as the basis for a thermocouple. It results in the production of an electric potential difference due to nonuniform temperature distribution in conducting materials not subject to a magnetic field.
These relations from linear nonequilibrium thermodynamics are often applied to thermoelectric phenomena. They basically state that L sub i j equals L sub j i, where L is a linear phenomenological coefficient, and their derivation was based on the assumption of microscopic reversibility.
The thermoelectric effect named for this man is the reversible heating or cooling observed when current flows through a single-material conductor whose ends are at different temperatures. He also correctly determined the value of absolute zero.
Seebeck effect [prompt on thermoelectric effect]
Onsager reciprocal relations [or word forms of "reciprocal"; prompt on reciprocal relations]
William Thomson, First Baron Kelvin [accept either] ￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
These intracellular inclusions result from the oxidation of exposed sulfhydryl groups on hemoglobin, causing the formation of disulfide bonds and distortion of the tertiary structure of hemoglobin. For 10 points each:
Identify these aggregates of denatured, precipitated hemoglobin that occur in red blood cells.
Heinz bodies are particularly prominent in these domestic animals, where they cause a namesake type of anemia. These animals are also affected by a namesake immunodeficiency virus that causes an AIDS-like syndrome.
Feline immunodeficiency virus and feline leukemia virus use this enzyme to generate cDNA from RNA. Howard Temin and David Baltimore won a Nobel for their discovery of this enzyme.
Heinz-Ehrlich bodies
cats [or felines]
reverse transcriptase
Philip J. Kocienski pairs these groups with death and taxes in his book on them. For 10 points each:
Identify these groups that temporarily render a reactive functional group inert. They play an important role in multistep syntheses and include trisubstituted silyl ethers for alcohols.
Protective groups are required for alpha-amino acids in this type of synthesis, which attaches an amino acid to a solid polymer and adds succeeding amino acids in a stepwise manner. This synthesis purifies the intermediate peptides by dissolving away the impurities, rather than recrystallizing, and it was developed by Bruce Merrifield.
Acetal is a common protective group for this functional group, which consists of a carbon double bonded to an oxygen.
protective groups
solid phase peptide synthesis [or SPS; or SPPS]
carbonyl group
This theorem is based on Kirchhoff's circuit laws and follows from the conservation of power/energy. For 10 points each:
Identify this theorem which states that the sum of the products of branch voltage and branch current for an electrical network is equal to zero.
This type of electrical network, which has four terminals, is typically characterized by short-circuit admittance, open-circuit impedance, hybrid or inverse-hybrid methods, which correspond to y, z, h and g parameters.
Despite having four terminals, two-port networks are very useful in characterizing devices with three terminals because one can choose two of the four terminals to be common to input and output; that common terminal is usually tied to this thing, which is generally the zero voltage reference point.
Tellegen's theorem
linear two-port network
ground [or earth]
This set of equations is combined with Maxwell's equation sin magnetohydrodynamics. For 10 points each:
Identify these doobly-eponymous nonlinear partial differential equations that describe the motion of a fluid.
Alfvén's theorem, a fundamental result in MHD, is analogous to this theorem, which states that circulation around any closed loop in an inviscid fluid is independent of time.
The Alfvén speed, which is the group and phase speed of Alfvén waves, determines the maximum propagation speed in a plasma before this thing forms. They can be thought of as a thin discontinuity in density, velocity, and temperature.
Navier-Stokes equations
Kelvin's circulation theorem
shock wave [or bow shock]
The abstract of one paper by this physicist, and some colleagues, answered the question "Can apparent superluminal neutrino speeds be explained as a quantum weak measurement?" with "Probably not." For 10 points each:
Identify this British physicist who rediscovered the geometrical phase and won an Ig Nobel with Andrey Geim for levitating frogs via induced diamagnetism.
Berry's geometric phase is commonly seen in the effect named for this physicist and Bohm. He also discovered superoscillations, a phenomenon in which a band-limited signal varies faster, in some region, than any of its Fourier components.
Superoscillations were discovered as a consequence of the fact that this principle allows one to select the initial and final boundary conditions of a quantum mechanical system independently. This principle is equivalent to the statement that the product of the standard deviations of momentum and position measurements is greater than or equal to h-bar over two.
Michael Victory Berry
Yakir Aharonov
Heisenberg uncertainty principle
In graph theory, this operation is the subject of Vizing's conjecture. For 10 points each:
Identify this operation whose input is two sets, A and B, and whose output is the set of all points, (u,v), where u is in A and v is in B.
Vizing's conjecture states that this number for the Cartesian product of two graphs is greater than or equal to this number for each graph multiplied together. This number is the cardinality of its namesake set, which is the set of vertices such that every vertex not in that set is adjacent to at least one vertex in the set.
Much like matrix multiplication, the Cartesian product lacks this property because A cartesian product'd with B does not equal B cartesian product'd with A.
Cartesian product [or direct product]
domination number
commutativity
The systolic automata of this name is a triangularly shaped system of hexagonally connected processors. For 10 points each:
Identify this term also applied to a type of diagram used to visualize convolutional codes. The shortest path through this type of diagram can be calculated with Viterbi's algorithm.
In one method of convolutional coding, input bits are stored in fixed length shift registers and combined with this binary logic operation, which is equivalent to modulo-2 addition.
When Gottfried Ungerboeck introduced trellis-coded modulation, he created the code by partitioning subsets of a constellation map to maximize the minimum of this quantity. For a two-dimensional constellation map, it's the square root of the sum of the squared differences of the x-components and y-components.
trellis [prompt on state diagram]
EXOR [or exclusive-OR; or EOR; or exclusive disjunction]
Euclidean distance [or Euclidean metric]
Paleoceanographic-proxy the e-mail address, for 10 points each.
The coccolithophore Emiliana huxleyi is quite well-known for synthesizing these long-chain unsaturated ketones, which give clues as to past sea surface temperature and CO2 concentration of surface waters.
Perhaps one of the better known temperature proxies is the ratio of isotopes 18 and 16 of this element.
Because the divalent cation of this element replaces calcium in calcium carbonate as a function of temperature, its ratio to calcium serves as the basis of a namesake thermometry.
alkenones
Oxygen
magnesium
Field, Koros and Noyes published the first complete chemical mechanism of this reaction and later published a simplified version known as the Oregonator; another simplified model is the Brusselator. For 10 points each:
Identify this nonlinear, oscillatory chemical reaction in which cerium(IV) is reduced to cerium(III) which is then oxidized, ad infinitum, or pretty close.
Zhabotinsky replaced this reductant in Belousov's original reaction with malonic acid. This compound is formed from the condensation of oxaloacetic acid and acetyl CoA at the start of a namesake pathway.
The cerium in the BZ reaction can be replaced with this element. One can oxidize aldehydes to carboxylic acids by using a compound that consists of one potassium, this element, and four oxygens.
BZ clock reaction [or Belousov-Zhabotinsky clock reaction]
citric acid [or citrate]
manganese [or Mn]
Since there will be no space geography in this tournament, answer some questions about extraterrestrial volcanology, for 10 points each.
his planet has a lot of volcanoes, mostly of the shield variety. It orbits the Sun in a retrograde motion.
These are the most abundant non-shield volcanoes on Venus. They are broad, circular volcanoes with a flat top and steep margins.
Like most of the rest of Venus, its volcanoes were mapped with the synthetic aperture radar of this spacecraft.
Venus
pancake dome [prompt on steep-sided dome; prompt on lava dome]
Magellan [prompt on Venus Radar Mapper]
Sample introduction in this technique can be accomplished with electrokinetic injection or pressure injection and it is used by the modern method for Sanger sequencing. For 10 points each:
Identify this analytical technique in which a tiny buffer-filled, fused-silica tube, which has an integrated detector, extends between two buffer reservoirs that hold platinum electrodes, which have a potential of 5 to 30 kilovolts (DC) applied to them. The potential causes electroosmotic flow across the tube.
One of the cooler modes of capillary electrophoresis is isoelectric focusing, which separates proteins based on their isoelectric point, the value for this quantity at which a protein, or other molecule, has no net charge.
Capillary electrochromatography is a hybrid technique that combines capillary electrophoresis and this kind of chromatography. This type of chromatography uses columns and pumping pressures on the order of several hundred atmospheres.
capillary zone electrophoresis
pH
HPLC [or high-performance liquid chromatography; or high-pressure liquid chromatography]
This equation was developed by making the Klein-Gordon equation linear in the first partial derivative of time. For 10 points each:
Identify this relativistic wave equation that predicted the existence of antiparticles, such as the positron.
One of the consequences of the negative-energy states of the Dirac equation is zitterbewegung, the rapid oscillation of an electron around its position, which gives rise to the Darwin term in this correction. It also has terms for a relativistic correction and spin-orbit coupling.
This widely-used unitary transformation reduces the four-component Dirac equation to two two-component wave equations, one of which reduces to the Pauli equation in the non-relativistic limit and one of which describes the negative-energy states.
Dirac equation
fine structure corrections to the spectrum of the hydrogen atom [prompt on the Hamiltonian of the hydrogen atom; do not accept "hyperfine structure"]
Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation [or FW transformation]
This type of organism is divided into obligate, such as the Brown-headed Cowbird, and non-obligate, such as the Bank Swallow, types. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of organism that lay its eggs in the nests of other birds.
Many brood parasites have evolved so that their eggs closely resemble the eggs of their host, which is known by this term. Two commons types of it are Müllerian and Batesian.
This family of birds contains the most widely studied brood parasites. This family includes roadrunners and is also known for its wide repertoire of calls.
avian brood parasites
mimicry [or word forms]
cuckoos [or Cuculidae]
One of the most common treatments for this disease is omeprazole, which is a proton-pump inhibitor. For 10 points each:
Name this disease in which stomach acid or bile flows back into the esophagus.
Barrett's esophagus is a condition associated with GERD in which the squamous epithelial cells of the esophagus are replaced with this type of epithelial cell. They include goblets cells and absorptive cells.
Barrett's esophagus is an example of this process, in which one cell type is replaced with another, possibly reversibly.
acid reflux disease [or GERD; or gastroesophageal reflux disease; or gastric reflux disease; or GORD; or gastro-oesophageal reflux disease; prompt on heartburn]
intestinal-like columnar cells
metaplasia
This process requires a seed layer if the substrate used is not electrically conductive. For 10 points each:
Name this process of producing a metallic coating on a surface by the action of electric current. The substrate used in this process is made the cathode.
This trapezoidal cell is designed so that the cathode is at an angle to the anode; that design facet allows a wide range of current densities to be tested at once. It is used to rapidly test the quality of electroplating recipes.
This electrode is defined to have a charge of zero volts; it consists of a platinum electrode in an acid with zero pH. This non-calomel reference electrode is used to determine the standard electrode potential of other half-cells.
electroplating [or electrodeposition; or electrochemical deposition; anti-prompt on galvanization]
Hull cell
SHE [or standard hydrogen electrode]
This model organism is unusual for having non-LTR retrotransposable elements at the end of chromosomes instead of repeats. For 10 points each:
Identify this model organism whose salivary glands contain polytene chromosomes.
Sometimes described as "A Drosophila for the plant kingdom", this model organism can be efficiently transformed by spraying its flowers with Agrobacterium tumefaciens.
TILLING, a reverse genetic method originally developed for Arabidopsis, usually uses this mutagen to rapidly introduce point mutations to a lot of genes. It usually causes methylation of guanine residues and is used in a namesake screen
Drosophila melanogaster [or Drosophila melanogaster]
Arabidopsis thaliana [or Arabidopsis thaliana; or thale cress; or mouse-ear cress]
EMS [or ethane methanesulfonate; or ethane methyl sulfonate; or methanesulfonic acid ethyl ester]
When these things are isolated and attracting, they are called limit cycles and a collection of all of them is plotted in a phase portrait. For 10 points each:
 Identify these solutions to differential equations that are paths in the phase plane.
This theorem states that if the positive semiorbit of a point is bounded and the omega-limit set of that point contains no critical points, then the omega-limit set is a periodic orbit. It can also be stated as orbits will either go to a limit cycle or fixed point in two dimensions.
This type of differential equation contains functions that depends on only one independent variable, unlike partial differential equations, which contain multivariable functions.
periodic orbits [or closed orbit; prompt on closed periodic trajectory]
PoincarÃ©-Bendixson theorem
ordinary differential equation [or ODE]
They must satisfy a scaling relation that can be constructed from a set of G and H filters, and popular examples have been developed by Daubechies and Coifman. FTPE:
Name these constructions used in a namesake multiresolution analysis closely related to Fourier analysis.
The simplest wavelet construction, named for Haar, has this property shared by the Heaviside function.  Interpolating spline constructions also have this property, and functions with this property are often written using curly braces.
Wavelets are typically defined over this function space whose inner product is given by the integral of F times the complex conjugate of G.  All function in this Hilbert space are equal to their Fourier series.
Wavelets [prompt on "crestlets" or "shearlets" or anything else that sound synonym-like]
Piecewise Continuous
L-two [accept square integrable functions or quadratically integrable functions]
Although it can be used to separate nanoparticles, this technique is most often used for separating proteins by charge and size. FTPE:
What is this technique which uses a certain material, such as agar or polyacrylamide, as either an anticonnective or sieving medium by which different-sized molecules sort into different bands?
A common use for gel electrophoresis is to separate DNA, and in order to make the molecules visible, this intercalating agent may be used as a fluorescent tag. This chemical also has use as a vaccine for trypanosomosis in cattle.
Once a DNA sample has been separated, molecular biologists may transfer DNA fragments to a filter membrane and then use probe hybridization to detect specific DNA sequences in this blotting method named for a certain English scientist
Gel Electrophoresis
Ethidium Bromide
Southern blot
This mineral is formed in the Schikorr reaction. FTPE
Name this mineral found in lodestones
Recently it was shown that what were thought to be magnetite-containing neurons in this organism's upper beak were actually macrophages. That paper was one of many on magnetite in these organisms that appeared in Nature and Science in the past year
This very thermodynamically-stable iron oxide is alpha (FeO)OH. This mineral with antiferromagnetism is the first conversion product of ferrihydrite, and the two minerals together with organic matter color soil brown
magnetite [accept Fe-3-O-4, prompt on iron oxide]
pigeons [or Columbia livia]
goethite
Recently, Rekken et al developed an acyclic example of one of these compounds that has two arylsulphur groups attached to a particular element. FTPE:
Name these compounds discovered by Skell and Goldstein, where a certain element is divalent
A less exotic silicon-containing compound is this primary reference standard of proton NMR
These are silicon oxygen polymers that have organic side groups, usually methyl. Their many uses include adhesives, lubricants, and cosmetic surgery
silylene 
TetraMethylSilane 
silicones 
.  [NOTE TO MODERATOR:  Do not read alternate answers] It can be synthetically prepared by heating phenolate salts under high pressure CO2. FTPE
Name this acid that contains a benzene ring which, when a certain functional group is attached, is used to produce aspirin
The process of a nucleophilic addition of phenolate to carbon dioxide goes by this name. It is mostly used for salicylic acid, but can also be used to prepare parabens
Aspirin is synthesized from an esterification reaction between salicylic acid and this molecule.  This molecule is also used commerically to convert cellulose to cellulose acetate
salicylic acid [DO NOT READ:  accept 2-hydroxybenzoic acid; prompt on "acetylsalicylic acid"]
Kolbe-Schmitt reaction
acetic anhydride [accept ethanoic andydride, accept Ac-2-O]
It's not really a measurement of an atom's dimensions, but rather a probability of collision. FTPE:
Name this quantity, which uses units of "barns", that is used to study neutron interactions in nuclear processes
Cross-section is inversely proportional to this distance.  For atmospheric molecules at room temperature, this length is on the order of 10 to 100 nanometers
In liquid cooled reactors, boiling of the coolent shifts the mean free path of the neutrons, and therefor changes the reactivity according to this coefficinet.  The nuclear reactor at Chernobyl disasterously had a positive value for this quantity. 
nuclear cross-section [prompt on "sigma"]
mean free path
Void coefficient
Virchow's triad gives three factors that contribute to this process.  FTPE:
Name this process in which blood improperly clots in arteris or veins.  In some cases, it can lead to embolisms.
The first part of Virchow's triad is hypercoagulability, which is most commonly caused by this mutation.  In this mutation, a certain cofactor of factor Xa cannot be broken down by protein C due to an arginine to glutamine substitution.
The superabundance of Factor 5 keeps activating thrombin, which cleaves a precursor protein into this substance which along with platelets forms the main structural mesh of the clot
 Chrombosis
Leiden Factor 5 [prompt on partial answers]
Fibrin [prompt on factor 1a]
This man eventually broke from Etienne Geoffrey Saint-Hilaire and advocated a position that connected every organ in the body to every other organ called the "correlation of parts." FTPE: 
Name this author of The Animal Kingdom, Distributed According to its Organization, a prominent catastrophist named the pterodactyl.
Cuvier rejected any form of evolution unlike the contemporary and rival of his. This Frenchman's tract Zoological Philosophy outlined his ideas of acquired characteristics.
Over the course of his life, Cuvier wavered on the subject of the Great Chain of Being.  This Swiss naturalist placed man on the top of that chain and ethereal matter at the bottom in his Contemplation de la nature. He held that Performation Theory rather than Epigenesis explained life's origins
Georges-Leopold-Chretien-Frederic-Dagobert, Baron Cuvier
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck
Charles Bonnet
This disease can cause Harrison's Groove. FTPE
Name this disease caused by insufficient hydroxylated cholecalciferol.
The afforementioned hydroxylated cholecalciferol is a form of this vitamin that helps regulate calcium levels and is created with the aid of sunlight
It has been shown in macrophages that activation of these receptors lead to an upregulation of vitamin D receptor production. These receptors recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns and are similar to a dorsoventral polarity development protein in Drosophila.
Rickets [or Osteomalacia]
Vitamin D
Toll Like Receptor [or TLR]
In this model, any given monomer has no effect on the orientation of another monomer, and the probability distribution of the end-to-end vector resolves to the 3-dimensional Gaussian distribution. FTPE: 
Identify this model from polymer chemistry in which monomers are not forbidden from sharing the same point in space. It assumes equal bond length for all monomers
Real polymers are non-ideal, but this characteristic parameter, developed by a German scientist, is a distance over which sets of monomers have ideal-chain like properties.  In the wormlike chain model, it is equal to two times the persistence length.
Freely-joined chains can be simply modeled as this sort of construction in three dimensions. Other situations modeled by these constructions include the motion of a single gas particle, as in Brownian motion
freely-jointed chain [accept ideal chain]
Kuhn length
Random walk [prompt on "Markov process" or "Weiner process"]
Answer some questions about approximations used when modelling fluids, FTPE.
Numerical approximations to the Navier Stokes equations are most difficult when this dimensionless number, the ratio of inertial to viscous forces, is high.  Not surprisingly, high values for this number signify turbulence
One simplification to fluid flow is to assume that fluid density is constant, which is valid at low Mach numbers.  That assumption gives this property to the fluid velocity field
The Saint-Venant equations can be used to model fluid waves when this condition is satisfied.  The Boussinesq approximation for this condition takes the form of long wavelength waves
Reynolds number
Solenoidal [accept the divergence vanishes or del dot V equals zero or word forms thereof, prompt on "incompressible"]
shallow water [accept anything about depth being small]
In the Lorenz Gauge, its d'Alembertian is equal to the negative current density, simplifying Maxwell's equations in free space. FTPE
Name this field, constructable from Helmholtz decomposition, whose existence and good behavior disallows magnetic monopoles
Another common gauge for the vector potential sets its divergance equal to zero and is named for this early French physicist. This man also lends his name to a law of electrostatics which states that the electric field of a point charge dies as one over distance squared
In the Aharanov-Bohm effect, the vector potential imparts this class of phase change to a particle travelling outside of a solenoid.  In general, this type of phase occurs during an adiabatic cycle through phase space with nontrivial monodromy group
Magnetic Vector Potential [promt on "A"]
Charles-Augustin de Coulomb
Berry Phase [accept Geometric Phase]
Answer some questions about the most acidic things known to science: superacids!  FTPE:
Superacids are defined as acids that are stronger than the pure form of this diprotic acid formed from the contact process.  It's found in car batteries
Since superacids are strong enough that the concentration ceases to be a good estimate for activity, this quantity replaces pH as a measure of acidity.  Pure sulfuric acid has a value of  minus twelve on this scale
This is the strongest superacid known, with a Hammett acidity function of approximately minus thirty one
Sulfuric acid [accept H2SO4]
Hammett Acidity Function
Fluoroantinmonic acid [accept HSbF6]
Name these awesome extinct mammals,  FTPE.
The discovery of Pakicetus was an important step in elucidating the transition of this group to aquatic environments. Other extinct members of this group include Dorudon and the poorly-named Basilosaurus, neither of which was as large as today's blue species
This genus of machairodont lived in North and South America during the Pleistocene. These ferocious felines risked breaking their sabre-teeth when hunting litopterns, Shasta sloths and woolly rhinos.
This weird group of perissodactyls knuckle-walked and foraged for food with their giant claws. An Eocene example is Eomoropus, but more famous genera like Ancylotherium lived during the Miocene
whales [or cetaceans]
Smilodon
chalicotheres [or Chalicotheriidae]
