Because every carbon atom in cyclohexane has this molecular geometry, the torsional strain has to be balanced by the angular strain. For 10 points each:
Name this molecular geometry observed on saturated carbon atoms, like the one in methane.
To minimize torsional strain, adjacent axial hydrogens in cyclohexane adopt this optimal dihedral angle. Drawing a quick Newman diagram should make it obvious that this is also the dihedral angle between the end methyl groups in the most stable conformation of n-butane.
Rather than R and S, conformers of molecules with this shape are labelled M and P instead. A common natural macromolecule with this shape can be fully described by two dihedral angles around minus 50 degrees each.
tetrahedral [or tetrahedron]
180 degrees [or pi radians]
helical [or helices; or alpha helices; or helix] &lt;AS&gt;
In this notation, a summation over contravariant indices is implied by a superscripted letter, summation over covariant indices is implied by a subscript, and derivatives are represented by semicolons. For 10 points each:
Name this widely-used shorthand in physics, which is named for the physicist who popularized it.
In electrodynamics, Einstein summation notation can be used to write Maxwell’s equations as: “the derivative of the electromagnetic tensor equals the permeability of free space times” this quantity, This quantity is contracted with the gradient in the relativistic version of charge conservation.
Depending on units, the proportionality constant can be rewritten instead with this constant. The square of this constant equals one over the vacuum permittivity times the vacuum permeability, and appears in Einstein’s mass-energy equivalence.
Einstein summation notation
four-current density [do not accept or prompt on “current” or “current density”]
speed of light [or c] &lt;AS&gt;
Alongside Ernst Lindelӧf, this man used the method of successive approximations to show that Lipschitz continuity can guarantee the existence of a solution to a given initial value problem. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematician who proved that an entire function must range over the entire complex plane minus at most one point.
For Picard’s little theorem to apply, the function cannot have this property. The result builds on the fact that, by Liouville’s theorem, any bounded entire function has this property.
An entire function has this property over the whole complex plane. For complex-valued functions, this property is called being “holomorphic,” and it’s interchangeable with being analytic.
(Charles) Émile Picard [or Picard’s little theorem]
constant [or equivalents like “does not change”]
complex differentiable [or equivalents like a “derivative can be taken”] &lt;JR&gt;
The most-used program of this type, Salesforce, has a market share of about 20%. For 10 points each:
Name this type of business software that aggregates and stores information about every transaction a business has made and every past or prospective contact a business could make.
CRMs have at their heart these large collections of digital information, whose “relational” type can be queried using SQL [“sequel”].
CRMs help firms do this process of dividing the full customer base into subgroups based on key traits like age or purchase behavior. “Targeting” and “positioning” can follow this process, which shares its name with a failure brought on when a program tries to access a forbidden or nonexistent memory location.
C·R·M systems [or customer relationship management system; or constituent relationship management system]
relational databases
segmentation [or segmenting; accept segmentation fault] &lt;MJ&gt;
If you’re going to track individual cells in mammalian culture, then they should first be synchronized in the cell cycle. For 10 points each:
A relatively simple way to synchronize cells is to stop feeding them serum, which will then arrest the cell cycle at this non-dividing phase. It includes the G1, S, and G2 phases prior to mitosis.
For mammalian cell culture, the serum being withheld is usually this ubiquitous product sold in bottles by Gibco, which is obtained from young cows and appears brownish red due to its hemoglobin.
Alternatively, you can classify cells based on their DNA content by doing a propidium iodide stain and then sorting them using a variant of this technique, in which single cells are passed through a capillary, illuminated by a laser, and binned based on the resulting fluorescence.
interphase
fetal bovine serum [or FBS; prompt on fetal calf serum]
flow cytometry [or fluorescence-activated cell sorting; or FACS] &lt;AS&gt;
The proposed influence of this variable on diversification rates has led to a debate about whether certain values of this quantity produce “cradles” or “museums” of biodiversity. For 10 points each:
Identify this independent variable in a ubiquitous biogeographic pattern relating it to species diversity. The mid-domain effect is often incorporated into null models of its influence.
The influence of latitude on diversification may occur via either of these two component processes whose difference equals the diversification rate. These processes often explain the emergence and disappearance, respectively, of taxa in the fossil record. Name both.
Rapoport’s rule describes the decline in the size of these things as latitude increases. Niche modeling techniques like MaxEnt are used to model these things, the geographic extents through which a species can be found.
latitude [accept answers that describe proximity to the Equator or to the tropics; do not accept climate variables such as “temperature” or “precipitation”]
speciation AND extinction [accept in either order]
geographic range [or geographic distribution; prompt on habitat] &lt;SK&gt;
This equation, which is frequently used in seismology, can also be used to calculate the height of a fata morgana mirage, in which case it is derived directly from Fermat’s principle of least time. For 10 points each:
Name this nonlinear partial differential equation which sets the norm of the gradient of a function equal to some arbitrary scalar function. It can be solved numerically using the fast marching approach.
The eikonal equation is key to ray tracing in this field of optics, which considers light to act as a ray, not as a particle. The paraxial approximation is made in the Gaussian subfield of it.
The eikonal equation can be derived from this second-order P·D·E under a W·K·B approximation. This equation, which sets the second time partial of a scalar function to be proportional to its Laplacian, is named for the fact that its solutions are oscillatory.
eikonal equation
geometrical optics [or geometric optics]
wave equation &lt;AS&gt;
Verse six of <em>Sūrat al-Māʾidah</em> [MEH-ih-duh] provides the instructions for this practice, and notes that “Allāh does not intend to make things hard for you” when explaining the <em>tayammum</em> type of this practice. For 10 points each:
Describe this practice, which comes in wuḍūʾ and the more intensive ghusl forms. Muslims must do a type of this practice before praying and entering mosques, and may use “clean earth” for it in tough circumstances.
A full ghusl is required after this practice, which fiqh literature calls istimnāʾ. Shāfiʿī jurists find this practice categorically ḥarām, while other madhhabs allow it only for travelers and prisoners or to prevent zīnah.
Muslims must achieve this specific heightened state of ritual purity before crossing ceremonial boundaries called the mīqāt [mee-KAHT]. Unusually, this purity state is explicitly broken for women by wearing a niqāb or burqaʿ.
ablution [accept descriptive answers describing washing or ritual purification]
masturbation [accept word forms and equivalents]
iḥrām [prompt on descriptive answers indicating the purity state required for pilgrimages, i.e. for ḥājj or umrah, or for entering Mecca and/or Medina; prompt on ṭahārah] &lt;JG&gt;
This form of spectroscopy has energy on the scale of a single electron-volt, which is suitable for detecting pi-pi star transitions to determine if a molecule is conjugated. For 10 points each:
Name this form of spectroscopy that generally probes electronic transitions.
IR and Raman spectroscopy, on the other hand, consider the much lower-energy transitions caused by this type of molecular motion, in which a chemical bond contracts or lengthens, leading the nuclei move slightly.
At low atomic numbers, pi orbitals are lower in energy than sigma orbitals due to low s-p mixing. However, the order of the energy for pi and sigma molecular orbitals inverts between which two adjacent elements on the periodic table?
UV-vis spectroscopy [or ultraviolet-visible light spectroscopy; or spectrophotometry; prompt on partial answer]
vibration
nitrogen AND oxygen [or N and O] &lt;AS&gt;
These basis functions are derived by scaling and translating a “mother” function. For 10 points each:
Name these functions that oscillate only within a relatively narrow interval. Transforms based on these functions are used in compression schemes like JPEG [“jay-peg”] 2000.
Wavelet transforms are often used as an alternative to the sinusoid-based “transform” named for this French mathematician. His transform takes a function plotted over time and shows peaks at its component frequencies.
For instance, wavelet transforms can be used to avoid this man’s namesake phenomenon, in which a function’s Fourier series always overshoots near sudden jumps. This American popularized the use of vectors, and he invented the dot and cross products.
wavelets [accept continuous wavelet transform]
(Jean-Baptiste) Joseph Fourier [or Fourier transform]
Josiah Willard Gibbs [or Gibbs phenomenon] &lt;JR&gt;
This variable’s usefulness has been put into doubt by evidence that it is directly chosen by women with high socioeconomic status. For 10 points each:
Name this variable, which Angrist and Krueger used in 1991 as an instrument for educational attainment.
Another criticism of using quarter of birth is that it is this type of instrument, which only explains a small fraction of the variation in the variable being instrumented.
Weak instruments aggravate this already existing problem for two-stage least squares regressions in finite samples. Estimators display this problem if their expectation is different from the population parameter.
quarter of birth [or season of birth; or things like time of the year of birth; prompt on date of birth with “What part of the date?”]
weak
bias [or small sample bias] &lt;SB&gt;
This interaction is driven by the quadrupole moment of an aromatic system oriented perpendicular to the molecular plane toward a monopole. For 10 points each:
Name this noncovalent interaction that’s especially common in biological systems, where it explains how tryptophan coordinates sodium ions.
Cation-pi interactions are crucial for molecular recognition of quaternary ammonium compounds, including nicotine and this molecule, which is the head group for the most common phospholipid in human cell membranes.
Contrary to popular belief, pi interactions explains about 75% of the enthalpy of DNA base pairing; only about a quarter is due to this other strong dipole-dipole interaction that usually involves nitrogen, oxygen, or fluorine.
cation-pi interaction
choline
hydrogen bonding [or H-bonding] &lt;AS&gt;
Since this theorem gives a “factorization” for a finite group into simple groups, one of its namesakes was the first to lay out the research program of classifying all finite simple groups. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem, which holds that the set of quotients of adjacent members in a composition series is always the same for a given group.
By the Jordan–Hölder theorem, the symmetric group of degree 5 has a composition length of 2, since this index-2 subgroup is simple. This group is isomorphic to the icosahedral symmetry group, and the fact that it’s the smallest non-abelian simple group is key to the Abel–Ruffini theorem.
The Abel–Ruffini theorem states that, for degrees 5 and up, these equations can’t be solved with radicals. For degree 2, these equations can be solved using the quadratic formula.
Jordan–Hölder theorem (The program is the “Hölder program.”)
A5 [or the alternating group of degree 5]
polynomial equations [prompt on equations] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about indirect negative interactions between prey species in response to a shared predator:
Robert Holt described that interaction between prey species as the “apparent” form of this process. Holt defined the P* [“P”-“star”] parameter to emphasize his model’s symmetry with Dave Tilman’s R* [“R”-“star”] model of this process.
Altering the form of this kind of curve, which describes how consumption by predators varies with prey density, can weaken apparent competition or even produce apparent mutualism. Three canonical types of these curves were introduced by Buzz Holling.
Especially among plants, apparent competition is often cited as a cause for the negative impacts of this kind of species, which is an introduced or exotic species that has become noxious.
competition [accept apparent competition; accept resource competition]
functional response curve
invasive species &lt;SK&gt;
Microeconomics textbooks often cheerfully admit that they have no intuition for why this matrix should be negative semidefinite—but it is. For 10 points each:
Name this matrix whose entries are price derivatives of Hicksian demand function.
Fill in the blanks labelled A and B in the following statement: [read slowly] “Hicksian demand is the solution to a consumer minimizing A, subject to B.”
The Slutsky equation decomposes a price change into the substitution effect and this other effect. Graphically, this effect can be illustrated as moving the budget constraint up or down without changing the slope.
Slutsky matrix [or substitution matrix]
(A) expenditure [accept equivalents like spending]; (B) a minimum level of utility [accept in either order, but it should be clear which is A and which is B]
income effect [or wealth effect] &lt;SB&gt;
In these devices, the mass-to-charge ratio equals twice the applied voltage times their namesake quantity squared over the distance to the detector squared. For 10 points each:
Name this type of mass analyzer, frequently paired with MALDI [“MALL-dee”] setups in mass spectrometry. These devices have relatively low resolution normally but are especially good for separating biomolecules.
TOF/TOF [“toff toff”] cells used for tandem MS consist of two TOF [“toff”] analyzers separated by a cell where this process occurs. In the middle cell of a triple quadrupole spectrometer, the “lowercase” q of a QqQ apparatus, this process generates new ion fragments.
Molecular excitations in a collision cell are induced by electromagnetic radiation in this part of the spectrum. Radiation from this lowest-energy portion of the spectrum induces spin flips in NMR.
time-of-flight analyzer [or TOF analyzer]
collision cells [or collision-induced dissociation; or C·I·D; or ion-ion collisions; or word forms]
radio waves [or radio frequency; or R·F] <AS>
Albumin-shelled microbubbles used as a contrast medium for echo·cardiography are generated using this technique on a solid chunk of albumin. For 10 points each:
Name this technique which is used to make aqueous emulsions by subjecting a sample to a high-frequency sound wave. It can also be used to make nanoparticle dispersions or to lyse cells.
Microbubbles made of phospholipid, on the other hand, spontaneously self-assemble around gas due to the ability of amphiphilic compounds to act as these species, which reduce surface tension at an interface.
The size distribution of nanoparticles and liposomes made by sonication can be measured using a Zetasizer in this technique, which reports on particle size by measuring a laser’s intensity’s autocorrelation function.
sonication [accept word forms]
surfactants
dynamic light scattering [or DLS] <AS>
The Lewis lab at Utah State pioneered an unsuccessful approach for harvesting this protein from goats, though the startup Bolt Threads is working on making it in yeast, since its native host, Bombyx mori, is hard to culture. For 10 points each:
Name this beta-sheet-rich protein that is increasingly being used as a biocompatible drug carrier because it spontaneously self-assembles into silk nanoparticles.
Silk fibroin forms tight beta sheets because it is entirely made up of repeats of these three amino acids. These three amino acids have the smallest side chains by molecular weight: a hydrogen atom, a methyl group, and a hydroxymethyl group.
Culturing spiders isn’t a viable option for silk production either, since spiders tend to exhibit this behavior when cooped up together in vats. Redback spiders and praying mantises do it prior to or during copulation.
silk fibroin
glycine [or G or Gly], alanine [or A or Ala], serine [or S or Ser] [any order is acceptable; no credit for partial answers]
cannibalism [or word forms; or equivalents like eating their mates] <AS>
This force appears to be radial in the rest frame of the Sun, but it isn’t in the frame of a particle in circular motion, which leads to the Poynting–Robertson effect, where dust spirals into the Sun. For 10 points each:
Name this force that is proportional to the solar luminosity. It is caused by photon momentum and is responsible for the motion of solar sails.
The Poynting–Robertson drag force depends on a coefficient derived from this scattering theory, which considers photons that are scattered by spherical particles of size the same order as the wavelength.
Radiative recoil on thermally anisotropic asteroids leads to the Yarkovsky effect, which is usually written as a differential equation showing the decrease in this variable over time. The vis-viva equation is usually written with the term “two over r, minus one over [this quantity]”, where this quantity can be positive or negative.
solar radiation force [or word forms like radiative force; or solar radiation pressure]
Lorenz–Mie scattering theory
the semi-major axis of the orbit [or a] &lt;AS&gt;
Loschmidt’s paradox is resolved by assuming that a system with this property is actually surrounded by a thermal reservoir. For 10 points each:
Name these systems that cannot exchange either mass or energy with the surroundings, unlike in a closed system. The precise formulation of the Second Law prohibits entropy from decreasing in this type of system.
A common case of the Second Law is that the entropy of this specific isolated system must increase. This thing is the union of any system and its surroundings, and its “heat death” is a consequence of the Second Law.
This other quantity, which has a negative linear relationship with entropy, decreases in all irreversible processes, assuming molecular chaos. It is defined by a distribution function over all particles that is minimized when the energies obey a Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution.
isolated systems [do not accept or prompt on synonymous answers]
the universe [do not accept or prompt on synonymous answers]
Boltzmann’s H [from the H-theorem; do not accept or prompt on “enthalpy”] &lt;AS&gt;
The optimal total number of these things can be calculated by attempting to minimize the out-of-bag error calculated through bootstrap aggregation. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs that hierarchically and discretely classify variables according to particular features. Random collections of them are generated, and then the resulting mode of them is output, in a machine learning algorithm developed by Tin Kam Ho.
The optimal number of decision trees should be limited to avoid this phenomenon, in which too many parameters are used to justify too little data in the training set, so the model lacks predictive power.
Weak learned decision trees are aggregated together and weighted by their predictive capacity to form a net strong classifier in the “adaptive” form of this process in machine learning.
decision trees [prompt on random forests by asking “Random forests are collections of what objects?”]
overfitting [or overtraining]
boosting [or AdaBoost] &lt;AS&gt;
As this quantity increases, a binding isotherm becomes more switch-like, which can then lead to ultrasensitivity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity symbolized n, which is the exponent of the substrate concentration in both numerator and denominator of a modified form of the Michaelis-Menten equation often used to model macromolecular binding.
Binding cooperativity helps this effect, which occurs when a polydentate ligand like E·D·T·A occupies more than one site on the central atom of a coordination complex. It can be used to treat heavy metal poisoning.
In heterogeneous catalysis, the Toth equation assumes that this dimensionless quantity depends cooperatively on the partial pressure. Another model sets this quantity, often symbolized theta, equal to “K P over one plus K P”, if temperature is constant. A description is fine.
binding cooperativity [or cooperativeness; or word forms; or the Hill coefficient]
chelation [or word forms]
fractional occupancy [or fractional site coverage; or the fraction of occupied sites; or the fraction of binding sites that have a gas molecule bound; or the fraction of sites on a heterogenous catalyst with adsorbed gas; or any other equivalents] &lt;AS&gt;
In the Neolithic and the Bronze Age, this material was often used to make “prismatic cylinders” with a tube-shaped interior and a notched-rectangular outside. For 10 points each:
Name this material that was also carved to make ring-shaped pierced disks, which were often covered in raised bumps.
Jade was also used in ancient China to make “suits” for use in these locations. One of these locations is home to a massive Terracotta Army.
Jade and similar minerals are widely used by these people to make ceremonial weapons like mere. These people use the term “greenstone” for jade and similar minerals.
jade [accept jadeite or nephrite; prompt on hardstone]
tombs [or mausoleums; accept reasonable equivalents]
Māori [prompt on Polynesians or New Zealanders] &lt;JR&gt;
Cyclophosphamide and cisplatin are often classified in a group of cancer therapies named for effecting this type of chemical transformation on DNA. For 10 points each:
Name this general class of chemical reactions catalyzed by a broad class of chemotherapeutics that act at nitrogen-7 on guanine residues. M·G·M·T repairs damage caused by a spontaneous reaction of this type at O-6.
Addition of a methyl group to this nucleobase just produces thymine. A fluorinated derivative of this base, which normally replaces thymine in RNA, is used in chemotherapy to block thymidine synthesis.
5-fluoro·uracil is a common example of this class of drugs, which stoichiometrically inhibit enzymes by irreversibly forming covalent adducts at the active site. Aspirin is another example.
alkylation [or alkylating agents; or methylation; or methylating; or other word forms; or attachment of an alkyl or methyl group]
uracil [or 5-fluorouracil]
suicide inhibitors &lt;AS&gt;
A culture based around this river was first unearthed at a namesake site whose name means “two-league head.” For the stated number of points each:
For 10 points—name this river, where many “animal style” bronzes have been found within the Ordos Loop.
For another 10—name this insect, whose cultivation in the Yellow River valley may have started as early as the Neolithic. These insects feed on mulberry leaves.
For 5 points each—name the two major Neolithic cultures of the Yellow River valley. The earlier one derived from the Péilǐgāng creators of “Jiǎhú symbols,” while the later one developed into the Bronze age Èrlǐtóu [“ARE”-lee-toh] culture.
Yellow River [or Húanghé] (The site is Èrlǐtóu.)
silkworm [or Bombyx mori; accept silkmoth]
Yǎngsháo; Lóngshān &lt;JR&gt;
Name some mechanisms of positive feedback loops in biology, for 10 points each.
CamIIK [“cam two k”] activates long-term potentiation through a simple positive feedback loop in which it catalyzes addition of this ion to itself. Virtually all cellular signalling cascades involve the transfer of this group between kinases.
In this first phase of an action potential, during which sodium ions enter the cell, a small sodium current opens up many sodium channels, resulting in positive feedback and a rapid increase in the membrane’s potential.
Positive feedback loops in yeast mitosis enable the rapid degradation of wee1 [“wee-one”] and expression of M·P·F, a complex composed of this cyclin and Cdk1. This cyclin is at high concentrations during mitosis.
phosphate group
depolarization [do not accept or prompt on “repolarization” or “hyperpolarization”]
cyclin B [or cyclin B1; or cyclin B2] &lt;AS&gt;
This nebula appears green-tinged from the interstellar medium, which was once attributed to a hypothetical element called “nebulium” before astronomers figure out it was just a forbidden oxygen transition. For 10 points each:
Name this nebula which also contains the Trapezium cluster. It’s located close to the stars Altilak, Alnilam, and Mintaka in a large constellation of the same name.
The nebula also appears red in color because it is one of these regions, named for their large amounts of ionized gas, where stars are formed inside of larger molecular clouds.
Protoplanetary disks in the Orion nebula have been extensively studied, particularly in their emission spectra which feature this molecule in the millimeter wavelength range. Radio emissions of this molecule are generally used as a tracer to infer hydrogen gas levels in H II regions.
Orion Nebula [or M42]
H II [“H two”] regions
carbon monoxide [or CO] &lt;AS&gt;
In a November 2018 <em>Science</em> paper, Dan Nocera and Neel Joshi showed that a surface-coated yeast with no pentose phosphate cycle could use nanoparticles of this element’s phosphide to regenerate N·A·D·P·H. For 10 points each:
Name this heavy metal in the boron group. It is mostly interesting because it makes up most of the mass of a chalcogenide complex used ubiquitously as a conductive transparent film in photovoltaics and glass coatings.
Indium tin oxide is classified as this type of extrinsic semiconductor, since the tin supplies more electrons than holes. Group V [“five”] dopants generally produce this type of semiconductor.
Thin films made of these molecules may supplant I·T·O both because of the rarity of indium and because these molecules have so many delocalized pi electrons. They are sheets of graphene rolled up into cylindrical rods.
indium [or In]
n-type semiconductor
carbon nanotubes [or C·N·Ts] &lt;AS&gt;
The Gralnick lab at Minnesota and others have shown that a strain of bacteria in this genus, M·R-1, can be used for bioremediation because it reduces metals like manganese found in lake water. For 10 points each:
Name this genus of Gram-negative bacteria whose most important member, oneidensis, is being studied for the suitability of making fuel cells powered by microbes.
Bacterial fuel cells would pass electrons to external anodes through these proteins that have heme cofactor groups. One of them shuttles electrons between Complexes III [“three”] and IV [“four”] in the electron transport chain.
Shewanella natively forms one of these structures on some extracellular metal oxides. These 2D structures occur when microbes adhere to solid surfaces, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa forms them in the lungs.
Shewanella
cytochromes [or cytochrome c]
biofilms [prompt on film] &lt;AS&gt;
Answer some questions about the Casimir force between two uncharged plates in a vacuum, for 10 points each:
Plain classical mechanics is sufficient to show that if you double the distance between the plates, the Casimir force decreases by what factor? The Coulomb force decreases by this factor if you quadruple the charge separation.
You can obtain the numerical prefactor by considering the zero-point energy of electromagnetic standing waves. For a 1D quantum harmonic oscillator, the zero-point energy equals h-bar times angular frequency times what number?
The full derivation also requires you to neglect electromagnetic standing waves with frequency above what value, which instead activate electronic oscillations inside the conductor itself? This frequency is proportional to electron charge over the square root of electron mass. A description is fine.
16 [or 16x or 16 times; accept 1/16 or one-sixteenth because fractions are confusing]
one-half [or 0.5]
plasma frequency [or the frequency of the Langmuir waves; or the frequency of the charge density waves] &lt;AS&gt;
Under constrained resources, this process can be done by constructing Taguchi arrays that enable fractional but orthogonal coverage of every test variable. For 10 points each:
Name this process that is done optimally using a set of techniques devised by Kirstine Smith, with the aim of minimizing bias and variance when calculating parameters.
D-optimal experimental design aims to maximize the determinant of this matrix. For a given set of values for independent variables X, this matrix equals X transpose times X.
Each term in the information matrix is this function of the score derived from the fit’s likelihood function. For a data set, this function equals the average of the squared differences from the mean, or, the standard deviation squared.
design of experiments [or experimental design; or experimentation; or word forms of any of these options; or DoE]
the Fisher information matrix
variance [or sigma-squared] &lt;AS&gt;
Studies of these people, which often employ ACE models, are often the most direct way to estimate the heritability of traits. For 10 points each:
Name these sets of individuals. Mono·zygotic sets of them tend to have more similar personalities than di·zygotic sets.
Twin studies and adoption studies are at the core of this subfield with a two-word name, which assesses the relative influence of DNA and the environment on a person. John DeFries founded this field’s namesake journal.
Copious twin studies show that intelligence gets more heritable as this other variable increases, a finding sometimes called the Wilson Effect. “Disengagement theory” and “activity theory” are two approaches to studying people at high values of it.
twins [accept identical twins; accept fraternal twins; accept monozygotic twins; accept dizygotic twins; prompt on siblings or brothers or sisters; prompt on n-tuplets]
behavioral genetics [prompt on partial answer]
age [or aging; or time that someone has been alive; accept any answer indicating how old a person is] &lt;MJ&gt;
The time-temperature superposition is used to describe polymers that possess this general property. For 10 points each:
Name this property of materials that demonstrate hysteresis in their stress-strain curves and suffer from creep, because the relationship between their stress and strain is time-dependent.
The properties of viscoelastic materials are characterized by these two elastic moduli, which vary with the sine and cosine of the phase between stress and strain, and are usually symbolized with one and two primes.
The ratio between the storage and loss moduli, tan-delta, is generally used in physics to represent dissipation. For materials, it measures this effect, the decrease in the amplitude of mechanical oscillations caused by friction.
viscoelasticity [or word forms; do not accept or prompt on “viscous” or “elastic” by themselves]
storage AND loss moduli [prompt on partial answer]
damping [or word forms] &lt;AS&gt;
In face-centered cubic geometries, these planes form the closest packed layers and are separated by a distance of the lattice constant over the square root of three. For 10 points each:
Give the Miller indices for these planes, so named because they are formed from the three vertices of the unit cell that are exactly adjacent from the origin in all three directions.
An extra coordinate is added to describe the Miller indices for planes in this crystalline geometry, which can pack just as efficiently as face-centered cubic crystals. The unit cell of graphene is this 2D shape.
On an FCC crystal, the (111) planes can scatter electrons, since this quantity, which scales with the square root of scattering intensity, is nonzero. It is calculated as: “the sum over all atoms of the atomic scattering factor, times the exponential of two pi i, times h k l dotted with the atom’s coordinates.”
(111) [“one one one”] planes
hexagon [or hexagonal close packed; or HCP]
structure factor [prompt on F] &lt;AS&gt;
Defects in this general process are assessed prenatally by the ratio of lecithin to sphingo·myelin in the amniotic fluid. For 10 points each:
Name this natural process that depends heavily upon the availability of di·palmitoyl·phosphatidyl·choline. In infants, defects in this general process are diagnosed postmortem by the accumulation of a hyaline membrane.
Absence of pulmonary surfactant in preterm infants is usually due to insufficient development of Type II cells in these small cavities in the lungs where gas exchange occurs. Smoking destroys them.
Alveoli are located at the distal end of these functional units of the lungs, which consists of a bronchiole and the alveoli clustered together in a rounded sac. In anatomy generally, this term describes exocrine glands whose secretory sections have a narrow lumen, unlike alveolar glands.
breathing [or respiration]
alveoli [or alveolus]
acinus [or acini; or acinar glands] &lt;AS&gt;
The number of elements in a finite example of these objects must be an integer power of a prime number. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic structures in which you can carry out operations analogous to addition/subtraction and multiplication/division. A commutative ring can be made into one of these objects by taking the set of all fractions.
Given a field and some metric on it, this other metric space can be constructed by adjoining the limits of all Cauchy sequences. The reals and p-adics can be constructed as one of these spaces for the rational numbers.
This mathematician generalized a theorem of Hermann Minkowski to prove that two quadratic forms are equivalent over a given number field if and only if they’re equivalent over its completions. This man used that theorem to exemplify his “local-global” principle.
fields [or field of fractions; or finite fields]
completion [or complete metric space]
Helmut Hasse [accept Hasse–Minkowski Theorem] &lt;JR&gt;
The last step of microbial cannabinoid synthesis involves heating the yeast to catalyze one of these reactions, the nonenzymatic conversion of T·H·C-A to psychoactive T·H·C. For 10 points each:
Name this type of reaction that occurs spontaneously when you heat an ester or carboxylic acid that has a carbonyl group exactly two carbons away. It is driven by entropy.
The usual mechanism for a beta-keto-acid decarboxylation is a pericyclic group transfer that’s the reverse of this reaction in hydrocarbons. In this reaction, ethylene is added to an alkene through a 1,5-hydride shift.
As Alexander Borodin could tell you, the decarboxylation of butanoates is not pericyclic. Instead, it is catalyzed by a radical generated through the homolysis of this halogen, which is a liquid at room temperature.
decarboxylation [or removal of carbon dioxide; or removal of C·O2; or obvious descriptive equivalents for a molecule losing C·O2]
Alder ene reaction [do not accept or prompt on “Diels-Alder” reaction]
bromine [or Br2] &lt;AS&gt;
David Baltimore, who discovered the key enzyme found in these viruses, chaired the November 2018 summit where Hè Jiànkúi [huh jyehn-kway] announced that he had CRISPRed [“crispered”] two baby girls to be immune to one of these viruses. For 10 points each:
Name these viruses which have RNA genomes that are reverse transcribed into DNA. In Baltimore’s scheme, they are in Group VI [six] and include HIV.
This virus in Baltimore’s Group VII also uses reverse transcriptase to replicate its partly double stranded genome. Infants are vaccinated against this virus immediately at birth, since it probably infects between 5 and 30% of the world’s population.
Baltimore began his career studying the replication mechanism for polio and this other model group V [five] virus. Its G glycoprotein is used to pseudotype lentiviruses and was fused to G·F·P in the first studies of ER-Golgi trafficking.
retroviruses
hepatitis B [or HepB; or HBV; prompt on partial answer]
vesicular stomatitis virus [or VSV; or vesicular stomatitis Indiana virus; or VSIV; or Indiana vesiculovirus] &lt;AS&gt;
When this process is done <em>in vitro</em>, its efficiency can be directly observed by the formation of a cloud of precipitating pyrophosphates. For 10 points each:
Name this process which is done in vitro to make RNA. This step from DNA to RNA is the first step of the central dogma and is catalyzed by RNA polymerase.
To purify RNA, the nucleic acid is precipitated by ethanol, phenol-chloroform extracted, and then fractionated on a PAGE [“page”] gel incorporating this substance as a denaturant. In molecular biology, this common chaotrope [“KAY-oh-trope”] is usually prepared at an 8 to 10 molar stock.
The usual RNA polymerase for in vitro transcription is harvested from this bacteriophage. Recombinant protein production in E. coli is usually driven by this phage’s polymerase, which is genomically integrated in (DE3) [“D-E-three”] strains.
in vitro transcription [or TX]
urea [or carbamide]
T7 RNA polymerase &lt;AS&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about modeling hydrology within a watershed:
Many GIS-based watershed models can use a rastered DEM, where the “E” stands for this topographic variable. Stream drop is the decline along a branch of a stream of this value, which is conventionally zero at sea level.
To determine where overland flow paths lie, hydrological models simulate two major mechanisms of runoff generation, which are caused by excesses beyond the capacity of these two processes. Name both.
A lot of groundwater modeling focuses on the complex hydrology of this unsaturated zone, which sits between the phreatic zone and the soil surface. The Richards equation includes a term for the hydraulic conductivity in this zone as a function of volumetric water content.
elevation
saturation AND infiltration [or word forms]
vadose zone &lt;SK&gt;
The advantage of this formulation is that its degrees of freedom are specified using 2<em>N</em> first-order differential equations, rather than <em>N</em> second-order differential equations. For 10 points each:
Name this formulation of mechanics which is only really useful to solve actual problems if you can make a canonical transformation to a basis in which most of the coordinates are cyclic.
The independent variables in Hamiltonian mechanics are the N generalized coordinates and N of these generalized quantities, which, as usual in classical mechanics, are represented by a p.
The equations of motion and the chain rule prove that if a canonical transformation f on a symplectic manifold is time-independent, then the time evolution of f equals this specific operation applied to f. The quantum mechanical analog of this operation gives the time evolution of an operator in the Heisenberg picture. You can give either.
Hamiltonian mechanics
generalized momentum [or generalized momenta]
Poisson bracket with the Hamiltonian [or Poisson bracket with H; or i over h-bar times the commutator with the Hamiltonian; or i over h-bar times the commutator with H; prompt on partial answers just mentioning “Poisson bracket” or “commutator” by asking “with what quantity?”] &lt;AS&gt;
These substances spontaneously self-assemble into phases like lamellae according to the value of the interaction parameter times the degree of polymerization. For 10 points each:
Name these copolymers in which the monomers are not dispersed randomly, but are instead concentrated in regular short discrete intervals.
If the monomers in a block copolymer have opposite charges, they may spontaneously form one of these insoluble liquid polymer-rich phases in solution. One of these phases is generated when gelatin is mixed with gum arabic, and much origin of life research focuses on how they could form protocells.
Coacervation forms two liquid phases, as opposed to flocculation, the precipitation of particulates from these mixtures where a phase is suspended in a different phase. They include gels and emulsions.
block copolymers
coacervates [co-ASS-er-vate] [or word forms; or complex coacervates]
colloids [prompt on suspensions] &lt;AS&gt;
Data from this project is analyzed by distributed computing in the MilkyWay@home project. For 10 points each:
Name this project whose fifteenth data dump occurred in December 2018. It aims to map distant galaxies from a two-and-half meter telescope at an observatory in New Mexico.
The SDSS can pick up these objects at redshifts as large as z = 7 since they are so luminous. They are active galactic nuclei where gas is accreting into a black hole, releasing energy.
The key data dumped in 2018 were the results of an extended survey detecting these signals, which occur roughly on the scale of the distance between galaxies. They correspond to matter dispersion in the early universe and have been used to estimate the equation-of-state for dark energy.
Sloan Digital Sky Survey [or SDSS; prompt on partial answer]
quasars [or quasi-stellar object; or QSO]
baryon oscillations [or baryon acoustic oscillations; or B·A·Os] &lt;AS&gt;
Many drugs in this class are thought to function by inhibiting a farnesyl synthetase in the mevalonate pathway. For 10 points each:
Identify this class of drugs named for their characteristic P-C-P bond. They are predominantly used to treat osteoporosis by inhibiting bone resorption.
Bisphosphonates primarily inhibit the activity of these cells, which compete against osteoblasts to increase blood calcium levels.
The monoclonal antibody denosumab is also used to treat osteoporosis, but instead works by inhibiting the RANK [“rank”] ligand, a protein in this superfamily. Another monoclonal antibody, adalimumab, inhibits a protein in this superfamily in a bestselling drug for rheumatoid arthritis.
bisphosphonates [or diphosphonates; do not accept or prompt on “bisphosphate” or “diphosphate”]
osteoclasts
T·N·F superfamily [or tumor necrosis factor superfamily; or T·N·F-alpha] &lt;AS&gt;
The voltage leads the current by 90 degrees in these devices. For 10 points each:
Name these circuit components that create e·m·fs proportional to and against the time derivative of current, according to Faraday’s law. A solenoid is a simple one.
The inductance of a solenoid equals the permeability of free space, times the cross sectional area, over the length, all times the square of what quantity?
Electromagnetic induction in transformers leads to resistive losses in the skin and proximity effects, so most transformers use this bundled, thin, insulated wiring where the skin effect is negligible in individual strands.
inductors
number of turns of wire [or N; or the number of times the wire is wrapped around the core; or equivalent descriptions]
litz wire &lt;AS&gt;
A Dirac function replaces the nuclear potential in a pseudopotential usually invoked to explain scattering of this particle by an atomic nucleus. For 10 points each:
Name this massive particle that is produced at a spallation source for diffraction analysis of bulk materials. This particle is fired at uranium to induce nuclear fission.
The neutrons used in wide-angle neutron scattering experiments are usually described by this adjective because they are at higher velocities than thermal neutrons. Moderation is done to reduce the energy of these neutrons.
A key use of small-angle neutron scattering is the determination of this quantity for a mesoscopic object using Guinier’s law. For a polymer, this distance equals the contour length divided by the square root of six times the number of monomers.
neutrons [or neutron scattering]
fast neutrons
radius of gyration [or R·g] &lt;AS&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the synthesis of chloro·aniline:
Chloro·aniline can be synthesized from chloro·benzene by first reacting it with this compound, and then reducing with iron in HCl. This mineral acid is industrially synthesized from ammonia in the Ostwald process.
Since chlorine is a sigma acceptor and a pi donor, it is both a deactivator and one of these substituents in E·A·S reactions. These substituents increase the electron density at three of the five unsubstituted carbons on a ring.
If you react chlorobenzene with sodium amide in ammonia, it will eliminate the chlorine through to benzyne; however, this benzene derivative will add ammonia directly in the Chichibabin reaction. This compound is industrially synthesized by reacting acetaldehyde and formaldehyde in a 2 to 1 ratio, plus stoichiometric ammonia.
nitric acid [or HNO3]
ortho/para directors [or ortho/para activators]
pyridine [or azine; or C5H5N] &lt;AS&gt;
Floral heterostyly tends to be genetically linked to this trait, which in one gametophytic mechanism is regulated by the interaction between an S-RNAse [S-R-N-aze] gene and multiple S-locus F-box genes. For 10 points each:
Identify this trait. Baker’s Law states that plants with this trait are less likely to succeed in colonizing islands.
S-RNAses that prevent selfing work by inhibiting this otherwise fast-growing structure that, in angiosperms, is made by the male gametophyte inside the pistil. LURE peptides help guide this structure’s growth.
By enforcing outcrossing, self-incompatibility reduces the risk of this phenomenon, in which an organism produces offspring with close relatives—in this case, with itself. By increasing homozygosity, this phenomenon makes the expression of deleterious recessive alleles more likely.
self-incompatibility [or being unable to self-fertilize; accept self-sterility]
pollen tubes
inbreeding [accept word forms] &lt;SK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about soil fertility:
The nutrient and water retention of topsoil is improved by this dark, well-decomposed component of soil organic matter. Recent studies have questioned the use of alkaline extractions to study this material.
Organic matter increases the retention of plant-available nutrients by boosting this quantity, the ability for positive ions to adsorb to soil surfaces.
Commercial fertilizers typically contain nutrients containing these three essential elements, whose percentage by weight is written as a hyphenated series of three numbers. Name all three.
humus
cation exchange capacity [or CEC]
nitrogen, phosphorus, AND potassium [or N, P, AND K; accept answers in any order] &lt;SK&gt;
The species of <em>Clostridia</em> that causes this infection produces a toxin whose L·D·50 is lower than all known substances except botulism toxin. For 10 points each:
Name this bacterial infection also called lockjaw. A vaccine against it is given in combination with diphtheria and pertussis.
Tetanus toxin works by cleaving this vesicle-associated membrane protein, a SNARE that buds off onto vesicles as they form and is transferred across neuronal synapses.
Continuous muscle activation also occurs from exposure to organo·phosphates, which are competitive inhibitors of this enzyme found at neuro·musculatory junctions.
tetanus
synaptobrevin
acetylcholinesterase [or Ach; or AChE; or acetylhydrolase] &lt;AS&gt;
In 2D, these theories can be solved using bootstrap approaches that are generated using a Virasoro algebra. For 10 points each:
Name this class of field theories that generally maintain scale-invariance. Juan Maldacena postulated that they correspond one-to-one with anti de Sitter spaces.
In any conformal field theory, this quantity is traceless. In any field theory, this quantity is proportional to the derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to the metric.
Conformal field theories in higher dimensions include the 4D Yang–Mills theory, which corresponds with one of these theories of quantum gravity. These theories enable gravity through their namesake 1D vibrating objects.
conformal field theories
Hilbert stress–energy tensor [or energy–momentum tensor; or T; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
superstring theories [or M theory] &lt;AS&gt;
These species were functionalized with thiol-labelled DNA strands to make the first spherical nucleic acids. For 10 points each:
Name these species that appear red in solution but can aggregate to form a blue color due to plasmon resonances. They were first used as labels in electron microscopy but now are being used for therapeutics.
Gold nanoparticles are synthesized from chloro·auric acid by this type of reaction catalyzed by citric acid or sodium boro·hydride. In organic chemistry, this type of reaction involves adding hydrogen or removing oxygen.
A greener alternative for synthesizing gold nanoparticles uses this common biological reductant, which is often applied instead of bisulfite in classroom demonstrations of the iodine clock reaction. This compound is a substituted five-membered unsaturated lactone derived from glucose.
gold nanoparticles [or A·u·N·Ps; or colloidal gold; prompt on partial answer]
reduction [prompt on redox reaction or reduction-oxidation]
ascorbic acid [or Vitamin C] &lt;AS&gt;
Ceiling and floor functions in recurrence relations can be neglected using this technique, which gives an answer in terms of the integral, with respect to <em>x</em>, of the non-recurring function of <em>x</em>, divided by <em>x</em> to the <em>p</em>-plus-one. For 10 points each:
Name this generalization of the master theorem used to solve recurrence relationships in which the subproblems may not be of equivalent size.
Just the standard master theorem is sufficient to prove this asymptotic behavior, in terms of N, of the recurrence relation: [read slowly] “T of N equals two-T, of N-over-two.” Binary tree traversal has this runtime.
If the recurrence relationship also has a linear, nonrecurring N term, then the runtime is N log N, as in this divide-and-conquer sorting algorithm developed by John von Neumann.
Akra–Bazzi method [or Akra-Bazzi algorithm]
N [or big-O of N; or linear time]
mergesort &lt;AS&gt;
In 2013, the first examples of these systems resembling a human brain were used to model microcephaly. For 10 points each:
Name these synthetic organs that can be produced by growing stem cells in 3D in a Petri dish patterned with morphogenetic gradients.
Organoids are typically cultured on this name-branded proteinaceous substrate formed from mouse sarcoma cells, which can be seeded with fibroblasts to resemble a basement membrane. A common angiogenesis assay is named for this material.
Those organoid studies became a prescient concern in 2015 due to the first major Western outbreak of the mosquito-borne illness caused by this flavivirus, which causes microcephaly in infants.
organoids
Matrigel
Zika virus [or ZIKV] &lt;AS&gt;
Most experimental invalidations of this statement rely on spontaneous parametric downconversion to create a pair of photons with four total polarization states. For 10 points each:
Name this statement that has been invalidated with certainty of more than 200 standard deviations by using detectors oriented in different directions and measuring the probability each detector reports the same polarization. It is written as variants of: “the probability of A B is less than the probability of B C plus the probability of A C.”
The photons produced by spontaneous parametric downconversion have this property, which implies that measuring the polarization of one fixes the other, despite their spatial separation. Einstein didn’t believe in it.
Entanglement is hand-waved away as an experience that just improves an observer’s estimate of the system’s prior in this alternative to the Copenhagen interpretation popularly championed today by David Mermin.
Bell’s inequality [or Bell’s theorem; or the CHSH inequality]
quantum entanglement [or word forms]
quantum bayesianism [or QBism] &lt;AS&gt;
Albert Munsell defined a system for defining <em>this</em> kind of visual element that the USDA adopted for classifying soil. For 10 points each:
Name these visual elements that can be defined in cylindrical geometry using the hue-saturation-lightness system. Isaac Newton invented a diagram that lays these things out along a wheel.
This geographer has published well-tested color schemes for maps and other data visualizations as part of a software tool whose name affixes “Color” to this woman’s surname.
ColorBrewer was made to be used in thematic maps, such as these maps in which regions are colored or patterned according to the value of some variable.
colors
Cynthia A. Brewer [accept ColorBrewer]
choropleths &lt;SK&gt;
If you linearize the Poisson-Boltzmann equation, this quantity falls out as the natural length scale. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, the distance away from a charged spherical particle in an electrolyte over which the electric potential decreases by 63%.
Charge screening in an electrolyte is accomplished by the formation of an ionic double layer, like the one that adheres to the surface of these devices in galvanic cells. These devices are the sites of redox chemistry in a battery.
Screened Coulomb potentials between charged particles in electrolytes, as in a colloid, are addressed by DLVO theory, which predicts the potential energy to vary as this function of r, the distance between particles. This is the general form of a Yukawa potential; give your answer only in terms of r, neglecting all constants.
Debye length [prompt on lambda-D]
electrodes [or anode and cathode given together; do not accept or prompt on partial answers, though]
the exponential of negative r, over r [or e to the negative r, over r; or ; or the negative exponential of r, divided by r; or other mathematical equivalents; do not accept or prompt on partial answer] &lt;AS&gt;
This object’s luminosity is used as a scaling factor of the y-axis of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this object that is usually depicted in astrophysical equations by a subscripted circle around a dot, which is a pretty simple cartoon of its position in the Solar System.
In the main sequence, luminosity scales as a power law of mass, with an exponent that’s usually capped at what integer? For most galaxies, this integer is the approximate power law dependence of luminosity in the Faber-Jackson and Tully-Fisher relations.
Bolometric magnitude, on the other hand, is defined to scale with luminosity raised to this power. Either an exact answer or an answer to one decimal place is sufficient.
the Sun [or Sol]
four [or fourth power]
2.512 [or the fifth root of 100; or 100 to the 0.2 power; or 1000.2; or mathematical equivalents] &lt;AS&gt;
Many organic mechanisms can be explained by sterics, electronics, or both. For 10 points each:
Although the trans effect governing carbonyl ligand reactivity in a coordination complex is electronic, this effect is driven at least in part by sterics. In alkene stereochemistry, this word means the opposite of trans.
Although acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of these compounds places the alcohol on a more substituted carbon due to carbo·cation stability, their base-catalyzed hydrolysis is governed by sterics. Nucleophiles and electrophiles both attack these compounds to yield alcohols with two additional carbons.
Though sterics normally govern the rate of substitution of alkyl halides, S·N2 on mustard gas is dominated by this electronic effect, in which a distant hetero·atom stabilizes a transition state by forming a weak covalent bond.
cis effect
epoxides [prompt on ethers]
anchimeric assistance [or neighboring group participation; or N·G·P] &lt;AS&gt;
The Metropolis-Hastings algorithm is one of these methods that evolves a Markov process by only allowing transitions when the acceptance criteria are met. For 10 points each:
Name this general class of algorithms in which a numerical solution is estimated by performing iterative random samplings of a distribution and averaging the results.
In this case of the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm, the acceptance criterion is made more stringent over each successive cycle according to a set schedule that gradually reduces the system’s ability to access every state. It’s named for an analogous process in thermodynamics.
Simulated annealing is a useful numerical approach for doing this task. For a multivariable function f that obeys some condition g, this task is done by finding the zeroes of the gradient of “f minus lambda-g”.
Monte Carlo methods [or Monte Carlo simulation]
simulated annealing [prompt on partial answer]
constrained optimization [or minimization; or maximization; that is the method of Lagrange multipliers] &lt;AS&gt;
A 2017 paper led by Cassie Stoddard explained the eccentricity and asymmetry of these objects in terms of the pressure they experience in the oviduct, which is influenced by life history. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, which are surrounded by a double membrane and a calcium carbonate shell. The number of them produced at a given time is the clutch size.
Yolk content and the ratio of egg to adult weight vary along a spectrum of life history strategies. Along that spectrum, species are described either as precocial, or with what word that instead describes offspring that are helpless and require parental care?
Organisms with this reproductive strategy rely on other species to raise their young. Davies and Brooke showed the importance of egg mimicry for the success of this strategy when cuckoos employed it against reed warblers.
bird eggs
altriciality
brood parasites [or brood parasitism; do not accept or prompt on “parasitism” or “parasites” alone] &lt;SK&gt;
The first of these theories hypothesized the existence of X and Y bosons, used an SU(5) [“S-U-five”] Lie group, and was developed by Georgi and Glashow. For 10 points each:
Name these theories that explain phenomena like proton decay or neutrino masses by establishing a single coupling constant at high energy scales that are still below the Planck scale.
As a sort of preface to a theory of everything, which would also include gravity, a grand unified theory should unite which three of the four fundamental forces?
The X and Y bosons in GUTs are gauge bosons formulated to maintain this quantity, which is conserved by a global U(1) [“U-one”] gauge symmetry even in the presence of exotic phenomena like proton decay.
Grand Unified Theory [or G·U·Ts]
electromagnetism strong nuclear force weak nuclear force [or word forms of any; prompt on partial answers]
B – L [“B minus L”] symmetry [or baryon number minus lepton number symmetry] &lt;AS&gt;
This protocol’s requirement on handshakes and checksums makes it more reliable but also more time-sensitive than UDP. For 10 points each:
Name this networking protocol which was originally combined with the Internet protocol, or IP, in the D·o·D model.
In the OSI reference model, TCP and UDP falls at this layer, which governs information transfer between two Internet hosts, and is intermediate in the hierarchy between the internet and application layers.
The handshake in TCP is established when a client sends this signal to the server. A common approach in denial-of-service attacks involves flooding servers with these requests.
Transmission Control Protocol [or TCP]
transport layer [or Layer 4]
SYN message [or synchronize] &lt;AS&gt;
<em>Read slowly</em>. Consider a nondegenerate two-state system, where, relative to some zero-energy reference, State 1 has energy “<em>k T</em>,” and State 2 has energy “2 times <em>k T</em>,” where “<em>k T</em>” is Boltzmann’s constant times temperature. For 10 points each:
State 1 is described by what adjective, which refers to the lowest energy state of a system, and therefore, the most likely to be occupied?
Solely in terms of fundamental mathematical constants, and relative to the same reference state, what is the value of the canonical partition function for this system? In decimal form, it’s roughly 0.503.
This quantity for the system is about 0.687 k T, or negative k T times the log of the canonical partition function. This potential is directly linked to the canonical ensemble because its natural variables, temperature and volume, are held constant in the ensemble.
ground state
e to the negative-one, plus e to the negative-two [or one-over-e plus one-over-e-squared; or ; or ]
Helmholtz free energy [or F; or A; prompt on free energy] &lt;AS&gt;
A 1939 paper by Dollard, Dobb, Miller, Mowrer, and Sears first presented this hypothesis, which was revised to require the need for activating “cues” by Leonard Berkowitz. For 10 points each:
Name this theory in psychology, which posits that a feeling of being blocked from achieving some goal often precedes violent behavior.
This author of Aggression: A Social Learning Analysis found that children imitate gestures and phrases they’ve seen adults use when given a chance to whack a bobo doll.
A recent hypothesis links aggression to a so-called “warrior gene” coding for this enzyme, which breaks down excess dopamine and serotonin. Iproniazid is in an early class of antidepressants that are “inhibitors” of this enzyme.
frustration-aggression hypothesis [or Frustration and Aggression; accept any answer indicating a relation between frustration and aggression; prompt on frustration; do not accept or prompt on synonyms]
Albert Bandura
monoamine oxidase A [or MAO-A; accept MAOA gene; accept monoamine oxidase inhibitors; accept MAOIs] &lt;MJ&gt;
The Burgers vector is parallel to the line of this type of dislocation. For 10 points each:
Name this type of crystal dislocation formed perpendicular to the direction of stress. It causes atoms to wrap around the line like a helix, and is named for a transformation equivalent to a rotation followed by a translation.
Screw and edge dislocations strengthen materials by decreasing this characteristic length scale, which leads to a corresponding increase in the number of points that pin the dislocations. Yield stress goes linearly with one over the square root of this length scale.
Screw dislocations form from this type of stress, which is parallel, not normal, to the surface that it’s acting on. The modulus for this type of stress is symbolized by a capital G.
screw dislocation [or screw defect]
grain size [prompt on d; prompt on partial answer]
shear stress
Two 2018 aRxiv [“archive”] papers suggested that lanthanum hydrides can be superconducting at 280 Kelvins, beating the previous high-temperature superconductor record in hydrogen sulfide by about 50 Kelvins. Answer the following about those papers, for 10 points each.
Because the samples produced are so small, neither research group was able to measure this effect, in which Type I [“one”] superconductors show perfect diamagnetism by expelling their internal magnetic fields.
Thus, besides low resistance, the main proof for superconductivity is that critical temperature varies inversely with this quantity. BCS theory predicts that “critical temperature times the square root of” this quantity is a constant.
On the other hand, Type II superconductors have no Meissner effect and instead form internal vortices whose size is governed by two length scales. One describes how rapidly magnetic fields decay in a superconductor, while the other falls directly out of Ginzburg–Landau theory. Name either.
Meissner effect
isotope mass [or molecular weight]
London penetration depth; Ginzburg–Landau coherence length [prompt on partial answer] &lt;AS&gt;
If the Lyapunov exponent has this property, then a dynamical system approaches an attractor rather than demonstrating chaos. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical property possessed by all the eigenvalues of the Hessian at a stable fixed point. The function “e to the lambda t” goes to zero at long times only if lambda has this property.
Attractors may be either fixed points, with attractor dimension 0, or these one-dimensional things, which form stable closed orbits in phase-space around fixed points but never converge. The van der Pol oscillator forms one.
At higher dimensions—for instance, the case of coupled harmonic oscillators—a limit cycle can be generalized as tracing out one of these figures in phase space, provided that the frequencies are all incommensurate.
negative [or lambda is less than zero]
stable limit cycles [prompt on periodic orbit]
an N-torus (That’s from the Kolmogorov–Arnold–Moser theorem.) &lt;AS&gt;
A classic experiment by Skoog and Miller showed that a high ratio of this class of plant hormones to cytokinins induces root rather than shoot development. For 10 points each:
Name this first class of plant hormones to be discovered. The Cholodny-Went model proposes that tropisms are governed by the distribution of these hormones, such as indole-3-acetic acid.
In a Skoog and Miller-type setup, intermediate ratios of auxins to cytokinins only ever produce this sort of unorganized mass of parenchyma cells. This kind of tissue also covers wounds in living plants.
Like thousands of undergraduates in plant biology classes every year, Skoog and Miller did their tissue culture experiment on this model plant in the family Solanaceae. A callus induced from the B·Y-2 cultivar of this species gave rise to a widely used cell line.
auxins
callus [or calli]
tobacco [or Nicotiana tabacum] &lt;SK&gt;
The journal <em>Lab on a Chip</em> mainly details advances in this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field of applied biochemical engineering that uses capillary action to drive laminar flow in channels that are approximately the width of a cell.
Though passive microfluidic flow relies on differences in surface tension to drive flow, active microfluidics instead uses scaled-down versions of these devices, which create a pressure head for fluid motion using rotary motion. They also provide the pressure to drive flow in pipes.
Micromixers are necessary for combining two streams in a microchannel because, in the laminar regime, this dimensionless number, which characterizes the rate of axial advection versus lateral diffusion, is very large.
microfluidics
centrifugal or rotary pumps
Péclet [PEH-klay] number &lt;AS&gt;
In many cheminformatic [KEM-ee-“informatic”] approaches, these things are encoded as entries in an adjacency matrix, where reactions that interconvert them are represented by linear transformations. For 10 points each:
Name these common structures that impart chemical reactivity to organic molecules. Examples of them include hydroxyl, carbonyl, and amine.
Besides its functional groups, a molecule must be encoded in cheminformatic databases with this key piece of information, which also helps determines its base name in IUPAC [EYE-you-pack] nomenclature. This property of an organic molecule can be determined by dividing the relative height of the “M + 1” peak in the mass spectrum by 1.1.
S·T·N and Scifinder [SIGH-“finder”], popular cheminformatic databases, are put out by this division of the American Chemical Society, which issues a namesake registry number to uniquely identify any chemical that has ever been published on.
functional groups [or functionalities; or moieties; or word forms]
number of carbons in the molecule [or number of carbons in the longest carbon chain in the molecule; prompt on length of molecule]
CAS [kass] [or Chemical Abstracts Service] &lt;AS&gt;
Kepler’s second law holds for any force of this type, but the first and third generally hold only for the inverse-square case. For 10 points each:
Name these forces, exemplified by gravity, whose magnitude depends only on the distance between the bodies of interest.
The inverse-square dependence of gravity also allows for the existence of this conserved vector quantity, which points from the center of force to periapsis when the orbiting body is at periapsis.
Position in a Keplerian orbit can be specified by a combination of the mean anomaly, the eccentric anomaly, and this quantity. In a planet’s case, this is the angle between perihelion and the current position as seen from the principal focus.
central forces
Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector [accept Laplace vector or Runge–Lenz vector or Lenz vector]
true anomaly [prompt on anomaly]
The Fowler process is used to add this element to hydrocarbons, and this element replaces the amine group on aniline in the Balz–Schiemann reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this element, three atoms of which are found in a group found in the triflate group as well as the structures of celecoxib (seh-leh-COX-ib) and Prozac.
Because of this perfluorocarbon’s ability to dissolve large amounts of oxygen, it has been investigated as a blood substitute. Along with a fluorinated tri·butyl·amine derivative and albumin, this compound made up Fluosol, and it can be prepared by fluorinating tetralin.
The Balz reaction can be considered a variant of this reaction, in which an aniline forms a diazonium salt that is then halogenated.
fluorine [or F]
perfluorodecalin
Sandmeyer reaction
These materials ideally have a large scattering cross section but a low absorption cross section so as not to poison the reactor. For 10 points each:
Name these materials used in nuclear reactors to slow down so-called “fast” neutrons so they can more easily interact with fissile fuel. Common examples include water and graphite.
For an infinitely large reactor with no leakage, the neutron multiplication factor can be computed using this equation, which accounts for the net effect of processes such as fast fission and resonance escape.
Because moderators do not absorb neutrons well, fission reactors also employ these components that can be inserted into the core to shut the entire reactor down.
neutron moderators
four-factor formula [or Fermi’s four-factor formula; prompt on “Fermi’s formula”]
control rods [prompt on “rods”]
These molecules act through the Aub- and Ago3-dependent ping-pong cycle and form double-stranded clusters bound to the rhino-deadlock-cutoff complex. For 10 points each:
Identify this class of RNAs named for their complexing to a protein required for germ-cell formation. They typically contain 26 to 31 nucleotides.
Piwi proteins are named for their being induced by these transposons responsible for hybrid dysgenesis in Drosophila.
When piRNA silences a gene, it remodels this substance to its more tightly packed, hetero- form. The substance forms a 30-nanometer fibre that is condensed into chromosomes.
piRNAs (p-i-r-n-a(s)) [or Piwi-interacting RNAs]
P elements [prompt on “P”]
chromatin [accept heterochromatin]
Answer the following about phonons, for 10 points each.
Phonon dispersion relations are typically plotted only for the first of these regions of momentum space, which divide up the reciprocal lattice into cells.
The Dulong–Petit law for heat capacity fails at low temperatures because it assumes that lattice vibrations follow this purely classical result, which states that each degree of freedom contributes a factor of “one-half kT” to the total energy.
Below the Debye temperature, electron-phonon scattering causes the resistivity of metals to be proportional to this power of the temperature, a result sometimes named for Bloch.
Brillouin (BREE-loo-an) zones
equipartition theorem
fifth power [accept 5]
Because the radiation source for this technique is inherently monochromatic, it is modulated using the Doppler effect, which results in spectra being plotted against velocity. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that observes the atomic nucleus by relying on an effect in which a bulk solid absorbs a photon in a recoilless manner.
Mössbauer spectroscopy typically uses a cobalt-57 source. That source decays to iron-57 to generate this type of high-energy radiation which, beyond being higher energy than X-rays and usually being emitted by nuclei, is somewhat nebulously defined.
Gamma ray–based spectroscopy often uses scintillation detectors, whose scintillators commonly consist of this compound doped with thallium.
Mössbauer spectroscopy
gamma ray [accept gamma radiation]
sodium iodide [accept NaI(TI)]
A form of this technique is combined with flow cytometry to quantify telomere length. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which a labelled probe is used to identify where a DNA sequence will localize. This technique may use a fluorescent or chromogenic probe.
A variant on FISH called catFISH has been used to study this immediate-early gene which like Homer 1a is believed to play a part in synaptic plasticity. This gene codes for a gag-like protein which localizes to dendrites and activated synapses.
The localization of the Arc mRNA is reliant on the polymerization of this cytoskeletal protein which forms microfilaments and binds to spectrin scaffolds.
in situ hybridization [accept FISH or CISH]
ARC [accept activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein]
actin
The anthraquinone process produces the simplest of these compounds while acidic derivatives containing this functional group such as mcPBA are used for epoxidations. For 10 points each:
Name this class of compounds containing an R-O-O-R’ [r o o r prime] structure.
A benzylic, allylic, or di·en·yl·ic hydroperoxide may undergo this rearrangement which produces a hemiacetal which is decomposes into a pair of aldehydes. This reaction occurs in the final step of the cumene process.
A Hock rearrangement occurs in the biosynthesis of this sesquiterpene which contains a peroxide bridge on its seven membered ring. This compound is extracted from a wormwood used in traditional Chinese medicine and is used in combination therapies for malaria.
peroxides
Hock rearrangement [accept Hock fragmentation]
artemisinin
Two of these quantities are said to be compatible if they share a common eigenbasis. For 10 points each:
Give the term for these measurable quantities which, in quantum mechanics, are represented by Hermitian operators acting on the wave function.
In this representation, or “picture” of quantum mechanics, the time evolution of a system is modeled by letting both the wave function and the operators themselves carry a time dependence. The Dyson series was formulated using this picture, paving the way for path integral theory.
The time-evolution operator can be represented as an exponential by performing this action on all of the terms in the Dyson series and summing together.
observables
interaction picture [or Dirac picture]
time-ordering [or equivalents such as “applying the time-ordering operator”]
One model of this general process is to treat an application as a “black box” and not examine its internal function at all. For 10 points each:
Names this process, which involves running a piece of software to search for bugs or other functional issues. It usually contains an “integration” step performed after code is run through a framework like JUnit.
Testing is the 5th step in the original version of this software development model proposed by Winston Royce. This model takes its name from the fact that progress moves in one direction, from one step down to another.
The waterfall model is contrasted with agile software development methods like this one, created by Kent Beck. It advocates heavy use of known “best practices” like constant pair programming and extensive software testing.
software testing [accept more specific equivalents]
waterfall model
extreme programming
Current models predict that the melting of the Greenland will contribute to a weakening of this system in the current decades, though a complete shutdown is unlikely. For 10 points each:
Name this ocean current system which transports up one quarter of the Earth’s heat flux. The Gulf Stream forms part of this larger system, in which colder and denser water sinks as it nears Greenland.
The North Atlantic current and the Norwegian current combine to form a “subpolar” type of this current pattern, whose subtropical counterparts cause surface water to sink.
The oceans are also suffering from climate change due to acidification, which reduces the available concentration of this chemical compound, which forms the skeleton of coral reefs and other marine animals.
Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation [or AMOC; prompt on partial answer, generously prompt on “thermohaline circulation”]
gyres
calcium carbonate [or CaCO3; accept aragonite or calcite]
In the presence of oxygen and UV light, chloroform will slowly convert into this compound. For 10 points each:
Name this compound which is effectively formaldehyde with chloride in place of the hydrogens. Its structure makes it a convenient precursor for polyurethanes and polycarbonates.
This subsidiary of Merck owns the phosgenation company Carbolabs. This chemical company was formed due to a 1975 merger, and its products feature a red logo containing a Greek letter and the letter a.
When Aldrich was originally founded, it primarily produced this compound which like Diazald and NMU serves as a precursor for diazomethane. Due to its propensity to alkylate guanine and thymine, it is carcinogenic.
phosgene
Sigma-Aldrich
MNNG [accept MNG; accept methylnitronitrosoguanidine]
This 16,569 base pair structure is inherited from the mother. For 10 points each:
Name this DNA structure which in humans is oddly circular. NUMT is believed to have its origins from this structure, which codes for the 22 tRNAs.
The replication of mtDNA uses this helicase coded for by PEO1, which works alongside the mitochondria’s own SSBs and polymerase.
In trypanosomes, their single mitochondrion contains this structure, which consists of several copies of the mitochondrial genome copied in either a maxicircles or minicircles. Because of the presence of this structure, Crithidia lucilae is used in the detection of anti dsDNA antibodies.
mitchondrial DNA [or mtDNA; or mitochondrial genome]
Twinkle protein
kinetoplast
The BLOSUM matrix may be used for this task, which may be scored using a gap penalty. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which nucleic acid or amino acid sequences are compared.
This sequence alignment hosted by the NCBI is considered faster than FASTA. Stephen Altschul’s paper about this algorithm is the most cited paper from the 1990s.
When performing multiple sequence alignment, MUSCLE, T-Coffee, or this Des Higgins pioneered algorithm may be used. This algorithm, which is currently in its omega version, has been cited a comparable amount to BLAST.
sequence alignment [accept word forms such as alignment of sequences]
BLAST [or basic local alignment search tool]
Clustal [accept Clustalw; accept Clustal Omega]
Peccei-Quinn theory is the leading candidate to resolve the Strong CP problem in this theory. For 10 points each:
Name this theory which describes the strong nuclear force through the interactions of quarks and gluons.
In predecessors of quantum chromodynamics, before quarks were discovered, this quantum number was used to distinguish between the proton and neutron, which have values of 1/2 and negative 1/2 for it respectively.
Massive particles in QCD and other field theories arise due to nonzero values of this quantity. The Higgs field gives mass to certain particles because it has a value of 246 GeV for this quantity.
quantum chromodynamics [or QCD]
isospin
vacuum expectation value [or VEV; prompt on partial answer]
Perhaps the most famous example of this phenomenon is Lifesavers Wint-O-Green candies glowing in the dark when chewed. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which a material produces light when crushed or rubbed.
Triboluminescence frequently occurs in crystals that are dissymmetric when pressure of this type is applied. This word more generally refers to the directional dependence of a material’s properties.
Symmetries of crystals can be described by these algebraic structures, which are sets of symmetry operations that leave the crystal structure invariant. There are 32 of these structures, which can be represented by Schoenflies or Hermann-Mauguin notation.
triboluminescence [or fractoluminescence; prompt on “mechanoluminescence” or “luminescence”]
anisotropic [accept word forms]
crystallographic point groups [prompt on “groups”; do not accept “space groups”]
A neodymium-doped form of this substance serves as media in laser that emits 1064-nanometer radiation, which is often frequency-doubled to emit green light. For 10 points each:
Name this synthetic garnet that must be doped to have any practical use. A cerium-doped variant serves as a phosphor used in cathode ray tubes and mercury vapor lamps.
An Nd:YAG laser is used in this form of atomic emission spectroscopy which atomizes and excites samples using laser pulses.
Atomic emission spectroscopy is used for this more general task of determining the chemical composition of some substance. CHN analysis performs this task using combustion reactions.
yttrium aluminum garnet [or YAG; accept cerium or neodymium (doped) yttrium aluminum garnet or cerium or neodymium (doped) YAG]
laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy [or LIBS]
elemental analysis [or EA]
The q-expansion of a function named for this letter has coefficients that can be written as a linear combination of the dimensions of irreducible representations of the largest sporadic simple group, the Fischer-Griess Monster group.
Name this letter used for the unit vector in the y direction; it also represents the column of a matrix element.
This theory came about after John McKay observed that the second coefficient of the Fourier expansion of the j-function was one more than the dimension of the Griess algebra. It was named by John Conway and Simon Norton.
Electrical engineers commonly use “j” to represent this quantity because the more common symbol is already used for a different quantity in circuit analysis.
J [or j]
moonshine theory [accept monstrous moonshine]
square root of negative one [or imaginary constant; prompt on “i”; do not accept or prompt on “current”]
Bacterial resistance mechanisms to these compounds are the basis of an inducible gene expression system relying on the TRE (“T-R-E”) element. For 10 points each:
Name this class of antibiotics that prevent the binding of aminoacyl tRNAs to the A site.
Tetracyclines inhibit translation by binding to the 30S subunit of these structures, which are responsible for the roughness of the rough endoplasmic reticulum.
The consumption of expired tetracyclines can cause this disease in which resorption in the proximal tubules is impaired, resulting in excessive amount of excretion of glucose and bicarbonate. In children, this condition is most often caused due to cystinosis.
tetracyclines
ribosomes
Fanconi syndrome [or Fanconi’s syndrome]
One method to complete this task was developed by the Avogadro Group and relied on counting the atoms in a sphere of silicon. For 10 points each:
Name this standardization task that the CGPM plans to complete in 2018, based on ultra-precise measurement of Planck’s constant.
The measurements of Planck’s constant that will be used to redefine the kilogram are made using this type of balance, which uses an electromagnet to counterbalance a test weight.
The current kilogram is based on a cylinder in a vault in Paris made of platinum and this other metal. The abundance of this element at the K-Pg boundary provides evidence that an asteroid impact wiped out the dinosaurs.
redefining the kilogram [accept improving the kilogram or equivalents; prompt on “defining mass” or “standardizing mass” or similar]
Kibble balance [or Watt balance]
iridium [or Ir]
The R and D varieties of these entities occur due to environmental factors, while their F and A varieties occur due to genetic factors. For 10 points each:
Name these models proposed by Gilpin and Soulé that categorize the dynamics of a certain process with causes such as inbreeding depression or disruption of sex ratios.
Type D extinction vortices may be caused by this phenomenon in which a habitat is broken up into smaller isolated patches.
During the 1970s and 1980s, this debate occurred over what size was optimal for reserves for conserving diversity in fragmented habitats.
extinction vortexes [or extinction vortices]
habitat fragmentation [accept answers mentioning forms of the word fragment such as fragmenting]
SLOSS debate [accept single large or several small debate]
Brenner potentials may be used in this technique in place of a conventional force field. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that uses computer simulations to predict the movement of atoms. Experimentally observed constraints may be applied to this technique while modelling 3D protein structures.
When modelling large-scale molecules, these types are models are used to allow longer simulation times. These models replace segments of a model with pseudo-atoms.
Computational chemistry may also be used to model these entities through the use of linear combinations of basis sets. These entities are also calculated via the Hartree-Fock method, and Robert Mulliken helped develop the theory named for these structures.
molecular dynamics [or MD]
coarse-grained models
molecular orbitals [or MOs; accept molecular orbital theory; prompt on orbitals; do not accept or prompt on “atomic orbitals”]
Selenium and cadmium compounds are commonly used to create these particles, whose narrow emission linewidth makes them candidates for next-generation display technology. For 10 points each:
Name these extremely small semiconductor particles, which have confined states in all three spatial directions.
Quantum dots often exhibit an absorption line at an energy lower than the bandgap due to the presence of these bound states between holes and electrons, which behave like miniature hydrogen atoms.
In this method of generating quantum dots, named for two Bulgarians, epitaxial films with a lattice mismatch are grown past a critical thickness, after which the strain causes islands to form.
quantum dots [prompt on “dots”]
excitons
Stranski-Krastanov growth
These compounds are synthesized from tyrosine and include dopamine and adrenaline. For 10 points each:
Name this class of compounds that are named for possessing a terminal -NH2 (“N-H-2”) as well as a benzene ring with two hydroxyls.
Like VMA, this product of catecholamine metabolism serves as a marker for adrenal tumors such as pheochromocytoma. This compound is formed from the breakdown of dopamine by either a MAO or COMT.
Aromatics such as tyrosine are synthesized in plants through this pathway whose enzymes include chorismate synthase.
catecholamines
homovanillic acid [accept HVA]
shikimate pathway [accept shikimic acid pathway]
This semi-permanent feature is responsible for Ulaanbaatar and Vladivostok’s remarkably cold winters relative to their latitude. For 10 points each:
Name this atmospheric feature that set a record when a pressure of 1083.8 mbar was measured in Agata on New Year’s Eve, 1968.
The Siberian high is one of the many discontinuities in this eponymous atmospheric circulation cell in the Northern hemisphere. This cell lies between the Hadley and polar cells and is responsible for the westerlies.
Because the Siberian high brings Ulaanbaatar’s average temperature just below freezing, the city rests on the “discontinuous” type this soil, which, unlike the continuous type, thaws during the summer.
Siberian high [or Siberian anticyclone; accept answers mentioning Siberia and the idea of high pressure or high atmospheric pressure]
Ferrel cell(s)
permafrost
This element forms a bright green 20-electron metallocene. For 10 points each:
Name this element that, with aluminum, is found in a catalytic powder named for Murray Raney.
A carbonyl protected by this compound may be hydrogenated in the presence of Raney nickel to form an alkane. When protected by this compound, carbonyls form a dithiane.
A dithiane is formed in this reaction, which lithiates the dithiane to form a masked acyl anion, effectively allowing a carbonyl carbon to attack an electrophile in a classic example of umpolung.
nickel [or Ni; accept Raney nickel]
1,3-propanedithiol
Corey-Seebach reaction
If the cladding of an optical fiber is too thin, this phenomenon can be “frustrated” as the light leaks out. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, in which light striking an interface is unable to pass through when the incidence angle is steeper than the critical angle.
Fiber optics were pioneered by this Chinese-born physicist, who received the 2009 Nobel for his achievements.
For a cylindrical step-index fiber, the radial distribution of the electric field for the TE and TM modes within the core is given by this type of function, which is finite at the origin.
total internal reflection [or TIR]
Charles Kao [or Charles Kuen Kao]
Bessel function of the first kind [prompt on “Bessel function”]
These relations produce a curve that intersects the Rayleigh line on a plot of “pressure vs. inverse density.” For 10 points each:
Name these one-dimensional relations that use continuity and conservation of energy and momentum to relate the upstream and downstream conditions in supersonic flow.
The Rankine-Hugoniot conditions describe the conditions on either side of these phenomena. They appear behind an object as it travels faster than the speed of sound.
Shock waves from a moving object form the shape of a Mach cone, whose half-angle is given by this function of the ratio of the speed of sound to the object’s speed.
Rankine-Hugoniot (ooh-goh-nee-oh) relations/equations/jump conditions
shock waves [or shocks]
arcsine [or inverse sine; or sine to the minus one power; or sine to the negative one power]
Unlike the Wurtz reaction, this reaction can produce odd-numbered alkanes because its reactants do not need to be symmetric. For 10 points each:
Name this reaction that reacts a lithium di·organyl·cuprate and a halide to form an alkane and a poorly defined organo·copper byproduct.
The lithium-copper reagents used in the Corey-House reaction are known by this name. They also specifically add at the 1,4 ("one, four") position in a conjugate addition.
The first organocopper compound discovered was a derivative of this lightest alkyne. This gas is mixed with oxygen as fuel for gas welding torches.
Corey-House synthesis [accept Corey-Posner-Whitesides-House reaction]
Gilman reagents
acetylene [or C2H2]
Because the main mirror of this telescope is too large for current vehicles to carry, it is divided into 18 hexagonal segments that will unfold like a drop-leaf table. For 10 points each:
Name this telescope intended as the successor to the Hubble, with a target launch date of spring 2019.
The JWST will orbit in a halo around this point in the Earth-Sun system in order to give it an unimpeded view. This point is located on the far side of Earth relative to the Sun.
The sunshield of the JWST is made of five layers of this polyimide material, originally developed by DuPont in the 1960s. Terrestrially, it is commonly used in insulating tape.
James Webb Space Telescope [or JWST]
L2 [or Lagrange point 2 or equivalents]
Kapton
This scientist proved that communities whose interaction matrices are generated at random are less likely to be stable as the number of species increases, a fact that led many ecologists to believe that biodiversity has destabilizing effects. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical ecologist who wrote Stability and Complexity in Model Ecosystems and worked with Roy Anderson to build a series of influential models of infectious disease.
May discovered that even simple discrete models of single-species population dynamics, like the logistic map, can display this mathematical phenomenon, whose characteristics include high sensitivity to initial conditions.
May and W. D. Hamilton developed a model of this behavior that counterintuitively predicts that it will still occur even if it results in certain death. This behavior is often modeled with a kernel that describes probability as a function of distance, and is the only factor connecting patches in a metapopulation.
Robert May [or Robert McCredie May; or Baron May of Oxford]
chaos
dispersal [or migration; accept forms of the words disperse or migrate]
Groups with unshared electron pairs tend to be strongly activating and ortho/para-directing for this reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this reaction, a subset of which are Friedel-Crafts reactions. In this reaction, an atom on an aromatic ring, typically a hydrogen, is replaced by an electron deficient species.
In this type of EAS, a non-hydrogen substituent is replaced by the electrophile. Trimethylsilyl and tert-butyl are considered directing for this sort of reaction due to their stable carbocation formation.
An intramolecular ipso-substitution occurs in the Hayashi rearrangement, whose intermediate is considered one of these compounds in which multiple rings are linked at a single atom.
electrophilic aromatic substitution(s) [or EAS]
ipso-substitution
spiro compound
These diamond-shaped diagrams improved upon Kruskal-Szekeres diagrams by “crunching” distances further away. For 10 points each:
Name these diagrams often used to represent causal structures of spacetimes containing black holes.
In addition to representing infinity, diagonal lines on Penrose diagrams are used to represent these surfaces of spacetime. A particle that crosses one of these surfaces around a Schwarzschild black hole can never return.
This cosmological model was popularized by Penrose in a book subtitled “An Extraordinary New View of the Universe” and identifies a future time-like infinity with a Big Bang singularity.
Penrose diagrams [or Penrose-Carter diagrams; or Carter-Penrose diagrams]
event horizons
conformal cyclic cosmology [prompt on “cyclic” or “Cycles of Time”]
Jesse James Garrett coined the term for this technology, which commonly utilizes JSON ("jason") files. For 10 points each:
Give this name for a series of technologies that allow webpages to perform background communication with servers. The jQuery library is commonly used for developing applications that use this technology.
The ‘X’ in AJAX refers to this standardized language used to represent data for web pages. It has been phased out in favor of JSON in many JavaScript applications.
This group, formed in response to a perceived shift to XML by the W3C, developed the standard HTTP request object used in AJAX. They also began the work on what would eventually become HTML5.
AJAX [accept, BUT DO NOT REVEAL, Asynchronous Javascript and XML]
XML [or Extensible Markup Language]
WHATWG ("what wig" or "what w-g" or "what"-wee-gee) [or the Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group]
In the presence of more than four conjugated double bonds, a set of rules named for Kuhn are used instead of these rules. For 10 points each:
Name this empirically derived set of rules for predicting the wavelength absorbed by a conjugated compound.
The energy of pi orbitals in conjugated molecules may be estimating using this method that expresses energy levels in terms of parameters alpha and beta. This method is named for the namesake of the “4N + 2” rule.
When using the Hückel method, aromaticity may be determined by calculating this quantity that, when positive, indicates aromaticity and, when negative, indicates antiaromaticity. This quantity equals difference in energy between pi electrons in the cyclic molecule and its linear counterpart.
Woodward’s rules [accept Woodward-Feiser rules; do NOT accept Woodward Hoffman rules]
Hückel method [accept Hückel’s rule]
Dewar resonance energy [accept DRE or Dewar energy; prompt on “resonance energy”]
For 10 points each, answer the following about Stephen Smale, the patron saint of bright students with poor GPAs.
For resolving the generalized Poincaré conjecture in dimensions greater than 4, Smale won this medal for young mathematicians, considered along with the Abel Prize to be the highest award in mathematics.
The Poincaré conjecture asks whether manifolds that bear this relationship to 3-spheres are also homeomorphic to it. This relationship between spaces in analogous to a property often illustrated by a map from X cross [0,1] ("zero comma one") to Y.
Like Smale, who recently published in the American Economics Review, the mathematician John Nash also dabbled in economics. Nash’s 1950 PNAS paper, “Equilibrium Points in N-Person Games,” used this theorem, a generalization of the Brouwer fixed-point theorem, to show the existence of his namesake equilibrium.
Fields Medal
homotopy equivalence [accept homotopic equivalence]
Kakutani fixed-point theorem [prompt on “Kakutani theorem” or “fixed-point theorem”]
The time component of this quantity is given by the Lorentz factor times the speed of light. For 10 points each:
Name this vector quantity from special relativity that equals the “tangent vector to a worldline” for massive particles.
In special relativity, the velocity is equal to the speed of light times this function of the rapidity.
Special relativity grew out of the Michelson-Morley experiment, which obtained a null result for deflection of light by this medium through which light supposedly propagated.
four-velocity [prompt on “velocity”]
tanh (“tanch”) [or hyperbolic tangent; do not prompt on “tan” or “tangent”]
luminiferous aether [or luminiferous ether]
These interactions hold together the hairpin of a PPRH and allow the formation of triple and quadruple helices. For 10 points each:
Name this alternative to Watson-Crick pairing, in which one of the AT or GC pair is rotating 180 degrees.
This quadruplex structure forms as an intermediate in genetic recombination and double-strand break repair. Symmetric sequences in these “junctions” allow individual arms to slide along the sequences.
The hydrogen bonding in Hoogsteen pairing occurs along this feature of the DNA helix, which, in B-DNA, has a width of 22 angstroms. Both DAPI and Hoechst stains bind to the smaller counterpart of this feature.
Hoogsteen base pairing [accept reversed Hoogsteen base pairing]
Holliday junctions
major groove(s) [prompt on “groove(s)”]
Paul Dirac proved that the existence of any of these objects would explain why electric charge is quantized. For 10 points each:
Name these hypothetical objects that, if they existed, would force Gauss’s law to be modified such that the divergence of the magnetic field would be nonzero.
A more complicated solution appearing in grand unified theories is this monopole named for Dutch and Russian physicists. It eliminates singularities and has finite total energy.
The properties of magnetic monopoles can be estimated from the scale at which this behavior is observed between the strong and electroweak interactions in GUTs. Goldstone bosons are predicted to arise in this general behavior.
magnetic monopoles
‘t Hooft-Polyakov monopole
spontaneous symmetry breaking [accept answers mentioning forms of the words spontaneous and symmetry and breaking; prompt on “symmetry breaking”]
This reagent converts an alcohol to an alkyl halide in a nucleophilic substitution with internal return, which retains stereochemistry. For 10 points each:
Name this chlorination agent whose convenience lies in the fact that its byproducts of sulfur dioxide and hydrochloric acid are gaseous.
Thionyl chloride classically converts a carboxylic acid to an acyl chloride before it is reacted with diazomethane in this reaction. Afterwards, a Wolff rearrangement occurs followed by hydrolyzation, which allows this reaction to produce a carboxylic acid with one more carbon.
The driving force behind the Wolff rearrangement, much like the Wolff-Kishner reduction and Curtius rearrangement, is the evolution of this diatomic gas. This gas is also released upon heating an azide.
thionyl chloride [or SOCl2]
Arndt-Eistert reaction [accept Arndt-Eistert homologation or Arndt-Eistert synthesis]
dinitrogen gas [or N2]
Intravitreal injection of inhibitors of this compound may be used to treat macular degeneration. For 10 points each:
Name this class of growth factors responsible for regulating angiogenesis. Their production is upregulated in response to hypoxia-inducible factors.
Angiogenesis results in the formation of these structures, which may contain a tunica intima and make up the vascular system.
VEGF is part of a family of growth factors named for the presence of one of these structural motifs. The three varieties of this motif are the growth factor, inhibitor, and cyclotide varieties.
VEGF-A [or vascular endothelial growth factor]
blood vessels [prompt on “arteries” or “veins” or “vessels”]
cysteine knots
The general expression for this equation is “x-squared minus n times y-squared,” where n is a non-square integer. For 10 points each:
Name this equation whose solutions can be used to approximate square roots. Significant work on it was done by Brahmagupta and Bhaskara II, but its name is the result of Euler misattributing the work of William Brouncker to a different English mathematician.
Pell’s equation is an example of this class of equations. These equations are polynomials for which only integer solutions are sought, and they are named for a Greek mathematician.
A pair of integers (x,y) (“x comma y”) is a solution to Pell’s equation if and only if “x plus y times square root of n” has norm 1 and is one of these elements in the quadratic ring “Z adjoint square-root n.” These are the only multiplicatively invertible elements of a ring, and the identity element must be one of these things.
Pell’s equation [or Pell-Fermat equation]
Diophantine equations
units
This bicyclic molecule is found on the side chain of tryptophan and is the basis for auxins. For 10 points each:
Name this compound consisting of a benzene fused to an indole. It is produced in the Bartoli reaction.
The Gassman indole synthesis is this sort of synthesis in which all reactions occur in the same vessel. Cascade reactions are these sorts of reactions, which are advantageous due to not needing work-up or multiple purification steps.
The Baeyer-Emmerling indole synthesis starts with an ortho-nitro substituted derivative of this unsaturated carboxylic acid. This molecule can be produced from the Perkin reaction or a Knoevenagel (k'NUH-ven-AH-gul) condensation between benzaldehyde and malonic acid.
indole
one-pot reaction or synthesis [accept telescoping synthesis]
cinnamic acid [or cinnamate]
The alarmone that triggers this phenomenon is hydrolyzed by SpoT ("spot"). For 10 points each:
Name this bacterial response to stress or amino-acid starvation. RelA ("rel-A") mediates this response that causes inhibition of translation.
The alarmone that causes the stringent response is derived from this nucleotide and contains five phosphates. G proteins are named for their binding to a triphosphate derivative of this nucleoside.
The primary signal for the stringent response is the binding of amino acid-free tRNA to the A site of the ribosome; this is the name for the ATP-coupled addition of an amino acid to tRNA.
stringent response [or stringent control]
guanosine [accept guanosine triphosphate; prompt on “GTP”]
aminoacylation [or charging; accept word forms of charging]
In a context-free grammar, the left-hand side of every production rule consists of one of these symbols. For 10 points each:
Name these symbols, such as the start variable, that do not appear in the alphabet of a context-free language.
The output of a context-free production rule can be one variable, multiple variables, or this entity symbolized epsilon, the identity element of concatenation. It is the only symbol in any given language with length zero.
This theorem can be applied to show that deciding whether a context-free grammar generates a regular language is impossible. Its formulator created a normal form for CFGs that is less strict than Chomsky normal form.
nonterminal symbols
empty string
Greibach’s theorem
The magnetic moment and the line integral of velocity parallel to the magnetic field are the first and second of these quantities for a plasma particle bouncing around in a gyropotential. For 10 points each:
Name these quantities that remain constant or change very slowly compared with typical periodicities of the system.
This quantity from plasma physics measures the length-scale at which electric fields are screened out. It is named for a Dutchman.
The frontiers of plasma physics and nuclear fusion are being probed at this experiment located at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which uses over 40,000 optical elements to generate fusion with lasers.
adiabatic invariants [prompt on “Poincaré invariants” or “invariants”]
Debye length [or Debye shielding length; prompt on “Debye”]
National Ignition Facility or NIF
The Klopman-Salem equation provides a way to calculate the assumptions of the theory focusing on these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these structures consisting of the HOMO and LUMO, whose interactions approximate reactivity in a theory pioneered by Kenichi Fukui.
Roald Hoffmann proposed this analogy to predict the bonding nature of organometallics by comparing their frontier orbitals to more well-known species with frontier orbitals of similar energy, shape, and electron count.
Another method of predicting properties of compounds using more well-known compounds as a reference is this method of predicting orbital splitting in complexes by first arranging orbitals based on a more-symmetric point group, and then performing the operations available in the less-symmetric point group on the orbitals.
frontier molecular orbitals [or FMOs]
isolobal analogy [or isolobal principle]
descent in symmetry [accept symmetry descent]
Women in astrophysics have often gone unrecognized for their accomplishments. For 10 points each:
An interplanetary scintillation telescope was developed by this woman in order to observe the first radio pulsars in 1967. She did not share the 1974 Nobel with Antony Hewish and Martin Ryle for her discovery.
Annie Jump Cannon, a member of the “Harvard computers,” helped complete the star catalog named for this amateur astronomer, whose widow Mary Anna donated his equipment to Harvard following his death.
Together with W. Kent Ford, this astronomer discovered that the speed at which stars orbit the centers of spiral galaxies remains high even in the outer arms, providing experimental evidence for dark matter.
Jocelyn Bell Burnell [or Susan Jocelyn Bell Burnell; accept any underlined portion]
Henry Draper [accept Henry Draper Catalog]
Vera Rubin [or Vera Florence Cooper Rubin]
This gene is downregulated by an antisense gene named Tsix (“T-six”), which is in turn inhibited by RepA (“rep-A”). For 10 points each:
Name this gene, which codes for a long non-coding RNA that binds to and inactivates a sex chromosome during lyonization.
Transcriptions of the repeats of these structures forms lncRNAs called TERRAs. These regions are found at the ends of chromosomes and, in vertebrates, consist of a repeating TTAGGG sequence.
The polycomb protein Suz-12 transports this lncRNA from chromosome 12 to chromosome 2. Regulation from this RNA is involved in the differentiation of skin, and it was the first RNA to regulate transcription on a different chromosome than that one it was originally transcribed from.
XIST (“X-ist” or spelled out) [accept X-inactive specific transcript]
telomeres
HOTAIR [accept HOX transcript antisense RNA]
Answer the following about getting that pesky ketchup out of the bottle, for 10 points each.
Ketchup is characterized as this kind of fluid that exhibits a time-dependent decrease in viscosity due to shear thinning.
Because of its nonlinear viscosity, ketchup would be annoying to analyze using these doubly eponymous equations of fluid dynamics. These nonlinear PDEs describe fluid flows with nonzero viscosity.
Some non-Newtonian fluids can be described by a power law in which the shear stress equals this quantity, symbolized K, times the shear rate. The food industry often measures this quantity with a device named for Bostwick.
thixotropic fluid [accept thixotropy; prompt on “non-Newtonian fluid”]
Navier-Stokes equations
consistency [or consistency index; accept Bostwick consistometer]
When the separation between these quantities is larger than the bandgap, population inversion is reached. For 10 points each:
Name these quantities with units of energy, which describe how far the carrier concentrations in semiconductors are from equilibrium.
The quasi-Fermi levels also split from their equilibrium value in the normal operation of these devices, which convert incoming photons to electric current.
The Fermi-Dirac distribution is particularly easy to work with under this condition because, at this condition, that distribution becomes a step function that drops straight from one to zero at the Fermi level.
quasi-Fermi levels [or IMREF, prompt on “Fermi levels”]
solar cells [or photovoltaics; or photodiodes; prompt on “cells”]
absolute zero temperature [or 0K or zero Kelvin; prompt on “zero temperature”]
This reagent reacts via a three-plus-two cycloaddition whose product is then hydrolyzed to form a glycol. For 10 points each:
Name this reagent with a plus-8 oxidation state used for di·hydroxyl·ation reactions. Reactions using this compound are made catalytic by providing oxidizing agents that reoxidize the central metal without affecting the alkenes that this reagent is meant to react with.
In the Lemieux-Johnson oxidation, osmium tetroxide is regenerated by a reagent containing an atom of this halogen; that reagent containing this halogen cleaves vicinal diols to form a pair of carbonyl compounds. This halogen exists as a solid at room temperature.
The Upjohn reaction uses this amine oxide as a sacrificial catalyst to regenerate osmium tetroxide. This compound serves as the solvent in the Lyocell product, in which it dissolves cellulose to form “dope.”
osmium tetroxide [or OsO4]
iodine [or I]
NMO [accept NMMO; accept N-methylmorpholine N-oxide or 4-methylmorpholine 4-oxide]
This equation can be solved with the help of the two-stream approximation, which assumes that energy comes in at only one angle and out at only one other angle. For 10 points each:
Name this equation that gives the change in specific intensity along an optical path. The Eddington approximation is another common way to simplify it.
In radiative transfer, this dimensionless quantity equals the integral of the product of opacity and density with respect to path length. The intensity of an outgoing beam is equal to the incoming intensity times the negative exponential of this quantity.
In our Sun, an optical depth of two-thirds marks the inner boundary of this layer, which lies between the convection zone and the chromosphere and is the deepest layer we can observe directly.
radiative transfer equation
optical depth [or optical thickness]
photosphere
An ATPase is present at the base of this structure that contains a needle complex known as the injectisome. For 10 points each:
Name this complex that some bacteria use to inject effector proteins directly into host cells.
The type III secretion system shares significant similarities with this bacteria motility structure, suggesting a common ancestry, which is one of many reasons why this structure is not irreducibly complex.
This class of effectors are secreted by the type III secretion systems of Xanthomonas bacteria and name a class of proteins containing repeated DNA binding sequences of 33 to 35 residues. These effectors are combined with nucleases in a major class of engineered nucleases used in genome editing.
Type III secretion system [or TTSS; or T3SS]
flagellum [or flagella; accept cilium or cilia]
TAL effectors [accept TALEs or TALE-likes or transcription activator-like effectors; do not accept or prompt on “TALENS”]
Performing this procedure on the bone marrow is used to identify the stage of leukemia. For 10 points each:
Name this procedure in which tissue or cell samples are excised and analyzed under a microscope by a pathologist.
Biopsies may be performed without open surgery thanks to this specific procedure, in which an interventional radiologist uses an ultrasound to guide a needle to the desired mass.
A biopsy of this structure may confirm a diagnosis of giant-cell arteritis in individuals with polymyalgia rheumatica. This structure and the maxillary artery branch from the external carotid artery.
biopsy [accept word forms such as biopsies or biopsying; accept, BUT DO NOT REVEAL, fine-needle aspiration or FNA]
fine-needle aspiration [accept FNA]
superficial temporal artery [accept temporal arteries; prompt on “temporal”]
Cells are grown on media containing this substance to see if they have been successfully transformed. For 10 points each:
Name this sugar analogue whose indole substituent, when cleaved, dimerizes to form an intense blue product visualized in the blue-white screen.
X-gal can be used to see if a cell expresses the beta-galactosidase enzyme produced by this inducible operon.
The E. coli enzyme beta-glucuronidase and X-gluc are employed in this reporter gene system used to analyze promoter activity.
X-gal [or BCIG]
lac operon
GUS reporter system [accept GUS staining]
This condition is considered “totalis” when it is accompanied with dextrocardia. For 10 points each:
Name this condition in which the organs develop in mirrored positions from their normal positions.
Situs inversus can be visualized as the organs being flipped over this anatomical plane that splits the body into left and right halves.
Because cilia are necessary for determining the position of the organs in embryos, 50% of individuals with this ciliopathy develop situs inversus. Individuals who suffer chronic sinusitis, bronchiectasis (BRON-key-EK-tuh-sis), and situs inversus from this condition are said to have Kartagener syndrome.
situs inversus [accept situs transversus; accept situs oppositus]
sagittal plane
primary ciliary dyskinesia [or PCD; accept immotile ciliary syndrome; prompt on “ciliary dyskinesia”]
This scientist names an apparatus containing ports connecting to a vacuum and a source of inert gas used in air-free techniques. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist whose investigation of organomagnesium reagents found that they existed in a namesake equilibrium in which their alkyl groups and halides exchange.
Wilhelm Schlenk was a student of this chemist, who described the formation of an ester from an alcohol and carboxylic acid and who developed a method of visualizing carbohydrates as horizontal and vertical lines.
Fischer’s work with carbohydrates included his development of a technique that formed this class of carbohydrates when reacting a sugar with excess phenylhydrazine in order to analyze carbohydrates that differed by one chiral carbon.
Wilhelm Schlenk [or Wilhelm Johann Schlenk; accept Schlenck apparatus or Schlenck equilibrium]
Hermann Emil Fischer [or Hermann Emil Louis Fischer; accept Fischer esterification or Fischer diagram(s)]
osazones
For each pair of distinct points in this type of topological space, there exist respective neighborhoods of those points that are disjoint. For 10 points each:
Name this type of topological space, sometimes called a separated space or T2 space. All metric spaces are this type of space.
Every compact subset of a Hausdorff space has this property. A subset of a topological space has this property if and only if it contains all its limit points. The phrase “sets are not doors” is often used to describe how a set can have this property and openness simultaneously.
The T2½ [“T two and a half”] space is named for this man, whose namesake “lemma” is used to prove the Tietze extension theorem. His metrization theorem states that every regular space with a countable basis is metrizable.
Hausdorff space
closed [accept closure]
Pavel Urysohn [or Pavel Samuilovich Urysohn; accept Urysohn’s lemma or Urysohn universal space]
The integral of these quantities over a closed loop is in general nonzero. For 10 points each:
Name these path-dependent quantities from thermodynamics exemplified by infinitesimal changes in heat and work.
This British scientist showed that small changes of heat and work are equivalent by using a falling weight to turn a paddle wheel and heat a bath of water, thus laying the foundation for the first law of thermodynamics. A calorie is equal to 4.184 of his eponymous unit of energy.
Prior to Joule’s work, this other scientist provided a challenge to the caloric theory by observing the heat generated from friction in the boring of cannons.
inexact differentials [prompt on “differentials”]
James Prescott Joule
Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford [accept either]
This term was coined by Gene V. Glass, who employed this technique with Mary Lee Smith and Thomas Miller in the book <em>Benefits of Psychotherapy</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this term describing statistical techniques that aggregate the results of multiple scientific studies. This technique is often used in systematic reviews of the literature.
Meta-analysis often uses these “plots,” which graph the results of many studies to indicate whether publication bias exists. They typically show precision on the y-axis and study results on the x-axis and ideally show results spread evenly over a triangular area.
John Ioannidis leads the Meta-Research Innovation Center at this West Coast university, where Walter Mischel carried out his “marshmallow experiment” on delayed gratification and Philip Zimbardo led an experiment on the psychology of perceived power.
meta-analysis [or meta-study; accept answers mentioning meta and a form of the word analysis or study such as meta-analyzing or meta-studies]
funnel plots [accept answers mentioning forms of the word funnel such as funnels or funnel graphs]
Stanford University [or Leland Stanford Junior University; accept Stanford marshmallow experiment or Stanford prison experiment or Meta-Research Innovation Center at Stanford]
Reactions taking advantage of this effect may be used to produce sarcophagine or other macrocyclic ligands. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which the kinetics and selectivity of a reaction are improved by the organization of reactants in the coordination sphere.
By providing a potassium ion as a template, one of these molecules forms in a variant of the Williamson synthesis in place of a linear ether.
Like quaternary ammonium salts, crown ethers may be used as this sort of compound, which allow ionic reactants to enter organic solvents.
template effect
crown ether(s) [accept 18-crown-6]
phase-transfer catalyst(s) [or PTC(s); prompt on “catalysts”]
Rivaroxaban (riv-ah-ROX-ah-ban) is an inhibitor of this enzyme, as is the serpin ZPI. For 10 points each:
Name this serine protease also inhibited by TFPI. Protein Z appears to help in the degradation of this enzyme.
Factor X participates in this process of forming blood clots, which undergoes intrinsic and extrinsic pathways that both lead to the activation of factor X.
This enzyme, also known as factor III, provides an alternate name for the extrinsic pathway of the coagulation cascade. It complexes with factor VIIa to activate factor X.
factor X (“ten,” but accept pronunciations of “ex”) [or factor Xa; accept Stuart-Prower factor]
coagulation [prompt on “blood clotting” or other answers mentioning forms of the word “clot”]
tissue factor [accept CD142]
The simplest way to make one of these circuits is to stick a resistor and capacitor in series and take the output across the capacitor. For 10 points each:
Name these filter circuits that attenuate all signals above a certain cutoff frequency while allowing signals with smaller frequencies to go through.
Analysis of low-pass filters and many other circuits can be simplified using these quantities that represent sinusoidal voltages and currents as time-invariant complex numbers, often written in polar form.
A low-pass filter is used to cut out the AC components generated by multiplying the input and reference signals in these amplifiers, which can extract signals with a known carrier frequency from very noisy systems.
low-pass filter(s)
phasors
lock-in amplifier
Quantum theory cannot be reconciled with general relativity because it is impossible to perform this process on the latter. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical trick from quantum field theory that adds a series of counter-terms to the Lagrangian to obtain meaningful physical predictions at lower energy scales.
The simplest renormalizations are those for the “one loop” corrections, so called because they are graphically represented by one loop in these diagrams, which represent photons by using wavy lines.
Quantum field theory distinguishes between renormalized quantities and these quantities, such as the mass of the noninteracting theory, which cannot actually be measured.
renormalization [accept renormalization group]
Feynman diagrams
bare quantities
A simple consequence of this theorem is that if the Lagrangian does not depend on a position coordinate, then the conjugate momentum in that direction is constant. For 10 points each:
Give this theorem, named for a female German mathematician, which states that every global continuous symmetry of the system generates a conserved quantity.
For any classical mechanical Lagrangian, the equations of motion will also remain unchanged when an extra term is added that can be expressed as this operator applied to some function f.
In contrast to its Hamiltonian counterpart, Lagrangian mechanics is carried out in this vector space, which is defined by the generalized coordinates only, rather than by both the coordinates and the velocities.
Noether’s theorem
total time derivative [accept word forms; prompt on “time derivative”; do not accept or prompt on “partial time derivative” or “ordinary time derivative”]
configuration space
This computer scientist illustrated the importance of consensus for distributed systems in his paper “The Byzantine Generals Problem.” For 10 points each:
Name this 2013 Turing Award laureate. His work provides the theoretical foundation of the Paxos consensus-solving protocol.
Lamport developed an algorithm for partially ordering computational events based on this variable. Clock synchronization algorithms are used to keep this variable consistent between nodes of a distributed system.
An algorithm named for this institution can be used to synchronize system clocks. This institution’s “sockets” are an API for interprocess communication that originated in UNIX.
Leslie B. Lamport
time
University of California, Berkeley [or UC–Berkeley; accept Berkeley algorithm or Berkeley sockets; prompt on “University of California” or “Cal”]
The axes of these diagrams represent reaction coordinates, while the top left and bottom right represent the reactants and products. For 10 points each:
Name these diagrams that effectively serve as projections of potential energy surfaces. A transition state is represented on these diagrams as moving along or perpendicular to a diagonal.
The rules for a transition state’s movement along a More O’Ferrall–Jencks plot are “effects” named for this statement.
More O’Ferrall–Jencks plots were developed to discuss the mechanisms of this class of reactions that come in E1 and E2 varieties.
More O’Ferrall–Jencks plots
Hammond’s postulate [or Hammond-Leffler postulate]
elimination reactions
Mutations in one these proteins may cause SCA35 or acral peeling skin syndrome. For 10 points each:
Name this type of enzyme that is inhibited by monodansyl cadaverine. When activated by retinoic acid, one of these enzymes performs a modification that causes RhoA to activate as a G-protein.
Autoantibodies against tissue transglutaminase are a marker of this “disease” that results in gluten intolerance and blunted villi in the small intestine.
TGM2 is found in these cells that primarily make up the stratum basale. The HaCaT cell line is derived from these cells.
transglutaminases [or tissue transglutaminases]
celiac disease
keratinocytes
The three prototypical examples of these objects are named Shergotty, Nakhla, and Chassigny after the locations where they fell. For 10 points each:
Name these objects that include the aforementioned “SNC” class, whose origins were discerned by a combination of their young age, their oxygen isotopic ratios, and the composition of noble gases trapped within them.
The young age of most Martian meteorites indicates that they were probably ejected by impacts on this bulge in the western hemisphere of the planet. This bulge contains the volcanoes Arsia Mons and Pavonis Mons, with Olympus Mons off to the northwest.
Impacts on the older surfaces of Mars do not produce meteorites, because the landscape is covered with this unconsolidated rock that lies on top of the bedrock. This material also covers most of the surface of the moon.
Martian meteorites [accept equivalents such as meteors from Mars; prompt on partial answer]
Tharsis [accept Tharsis bulge or Tharsis montes]
regolith
Anthony Arduengo’s group synthesized and isolated a prominent example of these compounds, which contained a pair of bulky adamantyl groups. For 10 points each:
Name this class of air-stable compounds. Most of these compounds contain a nitrogen-based heterocycle.
Carbenes are defined as containing a carbon with one of these entities. The repulsion of bonds and these entities is the basis of VSEPR (vesper) theory.
Stable carbenes such as NHCs may dimerize and exist in an equilibrium given this name. This carbene-dimer equilibrium was believed not to exist due to early experiments not observing mixing between dimers.
persistent carbenes [prompt on stable carbenes; prompt on N-heterocyclic carbenes]
lone pairs [accept electron pairs or anything indicating it is a pair of electrons]
Wanzlick equilibrium
In a popular classroom experiment, this quantity is measured using a cathode emitter in a vacuum tube filled with helium and mounted between two Helmholtz coils. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, first measured in 1897, that can be determined using the aforementioned apparatus from the accelerating voltage, the magnetic field, and the diameter of the glowing ring that forms in the helium.
The original charge-to-mass-ratio experiment was carried out by this British physicist, who formulated the “plum pudding model” of the atom based on his studies of cathode rays.
Another commonly-recreated historical experiment by a British physicist involves bringing a charged object near to, but not touching, one of these objects, and observing the resulting deflection of an electroscope. These objects are sometimes named after Faraday, who did the original experiment.
charge to mass ratio of the electron [accept equivalents such as electron mass over electron charge or electron charge divided by mass; accept inverse mass to charge ratio of the electron; prompt on “e over m” or “charge to mass ratio” or “m over e” or “mass to charge ratio”; do not accept or prompt on “charge” or “mass” alone]
J. J. Thomson [or Joseph John Thomson]
Faraday ice pail [accept ice bucket]
In 2004, Hans-Jörg Uther published an updated version of this system in <em>The Types of International Folktales</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this standard classification system for folktales, which are identified in this system using AT numbers.
In 2016, Sara Graça da Silva and Jamshid J. Tehrani used computational linguistics to propose that several “tales of magic” under the ATU classification scheme originated in this language, whose origin and spread is the subject of the Kurgan hypothesis.
Tehrani and da Silva’s research used this type of computational method, which is derived from evolutionary biology. In biology, scientists using this method can construct namesake “trees” showing how various organisms have diverged from a common ancestor.
Aarne–Thompson classification system(s) [or Aarne–Thompson–Uther classification system]
proto-Indo-European [or PIE]
phylogenetics [accept phylogenetic tree(s) or phylogeny or phylogenetic inference; prompt on “cladistics” or similar answers mentioning “cladistic” or “clade”]
These proteins and fusion proteins make up a substantial portion of biopharmaceuticals for the treatment of cancers and autoimmune conditions. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins produced by hybridoma cells. These proteins target a single epitope.
Hybridoma cells are produced by combining a myeloma cell with one of these lymphocytes. Plasma cells are a type of these cells designed to secrete antibodies.
Greg Winter pioneered methods of performing this process on monoclonal antibodies to prevent HAMA reactions. Monoclonal antibodies that have undergone this process are suffixed -zumab and have modified variable domains in addition to the Fc modifications found in chimeric antibodies.
monoclonal antibodies [or monoclonal antibody; or mabs; prompt on antibodies]
B cell(s) [or B lymphocyte(s)]
humanisation [accept word forms such as humanised]
This ion had the longest carbon-oxygen bond ever measured until it was surpassed by a tri-tert-butyl derivative. For 10 points each:
Name this stable oxonium ion consisting of a cyclononane ("cyclo"-NOH-nayn) ring with three carbons bonded to a central oxygen.
Oxonium and oxocarbenium (ox-oh-car-BEE-nee-um) ions are common intermediates in chemistry involving this class of biomolecules consisting of monosaccharide sugars and their polymers.
A cyclic oxonium intermediate has been used to explain the mechanism of this class of chain-growth polymerizations in which a Lewis acid creates a carbenium ion that propagates to form the polymer.
oxatriquinane (ox-ah-try-KWY-nayn)
carbohydrates
cationic polymerization
Newtonian predictions for the rate of this process fell short by about 43 arcseconds per century. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which the orbit of a certain planet changes over time. Albert Einstein identified this as the first major test of general relativity.
Further evidence to support general relativity comes from this effect, in which light from a distant source is deflected by the curvature of spacetime. In the “strong” case, this effect can even cause one distant galaxy to appear as two images.
In 1971, two American scientists empirically demonstrated gravitational time dilation by flying four atomic clocks around the world and comparing those clocks to a reference clock. Name either scientist.
perihelion precession of Mercury [or perihelion shift of Mercury, prompt on “precession”]
gravitational lensing [or gravitational lens; accept strong gravitational lensing or lens]
Joseph (Carl) Hafele or Richard E. Keating
This lemma came from a conversation that Saunders Mac Lane had with a Japanese mathematician on a Paris train. For 10 points each:
Name this lemma that states that if F is a functor from some category C to the category of Sets, and little c is an object of C, then there is a bijection between F of “little c” and the set of natural transformations that go from the functor Homs-from-little-c-to-blank to the functor F.
The Yoneda lemma is a generalization of this theorem from group theory, which states that every finite group with n elements is isomorphic to a subgroup of the symmetric group S sub n.
Proving the Yoneda lemma involves drawing this type of diagram, which uses arrows to denote morphisms. Groups with this property are called Abelian.
Yoneda lemma
Cayley’s theorem [do not accept “Cayley-Hamilton”]
commutative [accept word forms like “commutativity”]
The gene encoding this protein encodes a longer mRNA known as the Golli mRNA. For 10 points each:
Name this substance that is mimicked by glatiramer acetate; the latter is a mixture of randomly sized peptides that contains only glutamic acid, lysine, alanine, and tyrosine.
Glatiramer acetate is used as a treatment for this demyelinating condition named for the formation of scars on white matter.
A common treatment for multiple sclerosis is the beta-1a form of these cytokines that slow down viral replication. An assay based on the release of the “gamma” form of these proteins can be used as a test for tuberculosis.
myelin basic protein [accept MBP]
multiple sclerosis [or MS]
interferons [accept beta-1a interferons or gamma interferons]
Answer the following about the science of geodesy (gee-"odyssey"), for 10 points each.
This term denotes the equipotential surface of the gravity field that best approximates mean sea level. Because local undulations make it cumbersome to work with, it is often approximated by a reference ellipsoid.
This mathematician who worked at the Library of Alexandria estimated the circumference of Earth by measuring the angle of the sun’s rays on the summer solstice and using the distance to Syene as a reference. He also names a “sieve” that can find prime numbers.
Eratosthenes could have measured the angles better with one of these surveying instruments, which consist of a telescope that can rotate horizontally and vertically and that is mounted on a tripod with a level.
geoid
Eratosthenes of Cyrene [accept sieve of Eratosthenes]
theodolites (thee-AH-do-lite(s)) [accept transit (theodolite(s)); prompt on “total station”]
If two particles have this property, then their composite wavefunction is just the product of their individual wave functions. For 10 points each:
Identify this property. When this property is absent, the composite wavefunction must be symmetrized for bosons or antisymmetrized for fermions.
The antisymmetry of the wave function for identical fermions is the reason for this rule, which states that no two fermions can occupy the same quantum state, or else the wavefunction would vanish.
Identical particles experience this effect that pushes fermions farther apart than they would be if they were distinguishable. It is often called a “force” even though it is a purely geometrical effect with no force carrier.
distinguishability [accept word forms such as distinguishable or descriptive answers such as “being able to tell the particles apart; accept different types]
Pauli exclusion principle [accept either underlined portion]
exchange force [or exchange interaction; or exchange energy]
This man’s namesake “kappa” statistic measures the agreement between exactly two raters who classify items into mutually exclusive categories. For 10 points each:
Name this statistician who, with his wife Patricia, authored the classic social science methodological treatise Applied Multiple Regression/Correlation Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences.
Cohen’s book argues that multiple regression/correlation analysis is superior to the ANOVA techniques developed by Ronald Fisher, which are based on partitioning this quantity symbolized sigma-squared.
Cohen’s essay “What If There Were No Significance Tests?” criticizes this estimation method with a thought experiment about whether a random person is a member of Congress. Generally speaking, this method is used to find the parameters that make a chosen model most plausible for given data.
Jacob Cohen [accept Cohen’s kappa]
variance [accept analysis of variance]
maximum likelihood estimation [accept MLE]
Centrosymmetric vibrational modes are mutually exclusive between Raman spectroscopy and this technique. For 10 points each:
Name this form of vibrational spectroscopy whose spectra, like Raman spectra, are plotted against wavenumber. Molecules are probed using light between visible and microwave wavelengths in this technique.
Raman spectra can be used to identify molecular symmetries using this ratio of the perpendicular and parallel components of light.
A depolarization ratio of less than 0.75 indicates that a molecule or normal mode has this symmetry, which correlates with an A1 representation. A potential with this symmetry is used to model hydrogen-like atoms.
IR spectroscopy [or infrared spectroscopy]
depolarization ratio
spherically symmetric [or totally symmetric]
Answer the following about feedback and control in systems design, for 10 points each.
When there is no feedback at all, the ratio of the output signal to the input signal is referred to as this type of transfer function.
Nonlinear systems can be stabilized by finding one of these functions that is positive definite but has a constant negative derivative along system trajectories.
The transfer function is typically determined by applying this operation to the differential equation that governs the system. It maps the time domain to the complex frequency domain, and the Fourier transform is equivalent to the two-sided form of this operation with the real part set to zero.
open-loop transfer function
control-Lyapunov functions
Laplace transform [accept Laplace transformation]
Cyclopentadienyl groups have a value of five for this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this value that, for a ligand, is symbolized eta and is the number of contiguous atoms on the ligand coordinated to a metal center.
The term hapticity was coined by this Texas A&amp;M chemist, who, with Geoffrey Wilkinson, authored the influential textbook Advanced Inorganic Chemistry.
F. A. Cotton identified one of these structures in the octa·chloro·di·rhenate ion. These structures contain a single delta bond, and one of them is found in chromium(II) acetate.
hapticity
F. Albert Cotton [or Frank Albert Cotton]
quadruple bonds
The “b” parameter in this equation arises from treating atoms as hard spheres. For 10 points each:
Name this equation of state whose “a” parameter models the attractive force between particles.
The van der Waals equation is an example of this statistical approach, in which small fluctuations in state variables are averaged out. This approach fails completely in one dimension, where it predicts a nonexistent phase change for the Ising model.
In the van der Waals model, the pressure required for vapor-liquid separation can be found using this graphical construct, in which a horizontal line is drawn across the phase diagram such that the two areas formed between the line and the isotherm are equal.
van der Waals equation
mean field theory
Maxwell construction [or Maxwell equal area rule]
Methods of investigating these phenomena include co-immunoprecipitation and far-Western blotting. For 10 points each:
Name these phenomena that can be classified as stable or transient and that include receptor-ligand binding. These entities make up the majority of the non-genetic portions of the interactome.
Protein-protein interactions can be found using the two-hybrid screening developed using this organism’s Gal4 transcription factor. This organism is also known as baker’s yeast.
This technique may be used to calculate binding affinities of biomolecules by analyzing the change in fluorescence distribution in a capillary containing a temperature gradient.
protein-protein interactions [or PPIs]
S. cerevisiae [or Saccharomyces cerevisiae; prompt on “Saccharomyces”]
microscale thermophoresis
This theory explains the homogeneity and isotropy of the universe between points that are causally disconnected in the present day. For 10 points each:
Name this theory that proposes that the universe underwent a period of rapid expansion shortly after the big bang.
Expansion of the universe is conveniently modeled with these coordinates, which have a dependence on the scale factor such that distances remain fixed with respect to the overall expansion, or Hubble flow.
Comoving coordinates are often used when writing down this metric, which describes expansion in a homogeneous and isotropic universe and forms the framework for the Lambda-CDM model.
cosmic inflation [or cosmological inflation; accept answers mentioning inflationary such as inflationary epoch or inflationary cosmology]
comoving coordinates
Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric [or FLRW metric]
SUPER experiments isolate lineshapes generated by anisotropies of this phenomenon, which can be described using Herzfeld–Berger notation. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon whose anisotropy along with dipolar coupling and quadrupolar interactions, is averaged in magic-angle spinning.
Magic-angle spinning is used in solid-state forms of this technique that, more generally, uses a magnetic field generated by a superconducting magnet to analyze nuclei.
In this decoupling technique, a weak RF field is applied to target a particular resonance, which causes coupled multiplets to show additional splitting as opposed to collapsing to a singlet. Experiments using this technique can determine the relative signs of coupling constants.
chemical shift anisotropy
NMR spectroscopy [or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy; accept solid state NMR spectroscopy or SSNMR spectroscopy]
spin tickling [prompt on “tickling”]
The relativistic generalization of this formula depends on the Lorentz factor raised to the sixth power. For 10 points each:
Name this expression in which the time-averaged power is proportional to the square of the acceleration of the charges. It can be used as a crude model of small dipole antennas.
It is often easier to express dipole antenna power as a function not of acceleration but of the product of the square of the current amplitude and this constant, which has a value of 120 pi ohms in MKS units.
The Larmor formula works equally well for describing this form of radiation emitted by electrons moving parallel to a magnetic field. It is the nonrelativistic analog of synchrotron radiation.
Larmor formula [or Larmor’s formula]
impedance of free space [or radiation resistance of free space; accept the “vacuum” in place of “free space” for those answers]
cyclotron radiation
These organisms can be divided into plasmodial or cellular varieties, and a sizable amount of these organisms are part of the mycetozoan group. For 10 points each:
Give this name for a loosely defined set of organisms that begin as individual cells but may assemble to form either a multicellular grex acting as a single organism or an enormous cell containing many nuclei.
The slime mold Dictyostelium uses this compound as an acrasin (ah-KRAY-sin), a messenger that encourages cells to aggregate to form a pseudoplasmodium. This second messenger activates protein kinase A.
The spiral pattern formed during Dictyostelium aggregation resembles the patterns formed in this chemical oscillator. The first publication of this reaction involved interconversion between cerium (IV) and (III), and typically, malonic acid and bromate are contained in mixes for it.
slime molds
cyclic AMP [or cAMP; or 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate]
BZ reaction [or Belousov–Zhabotinsky reaction]
Under certain conditions, performing a Galilean transformation on this equation results in the simple diffusion equation. For 10 points each:
Name this equation that describes the time evolution of the probability density function for a stochastic process, which this equation says is equal to the sum of drift and diffusion terms.
The Fokker–Planck equation can be combined with the Langevin equation to model the time-dependent behavior of this process, which consists of the random motion of particles suspended in a fluid.
The Fokker–Planck equation can be rewritten as a continuity equation by equating the time derivative of the distribution with the right-hand side as the divergence of this quantity.
Fokker–Planck equation [accept forward Kolmogorov equation; prompt on “Kolmogorov equation” or “master equation”]
Brownian motion
probability current [or probability flux; prompt on “current” or “flux”]
These entities can be isolated through the use of a cold 1% Triton X-100 solution, which has led to them being called Triton-insoluble membranes or detergent-resistant membranes. For 10 points each:
Name these liquid-ordered microdomains of the plasma membrane that contain large amounts of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids.
These proteins are named for a subtype of lipid raft that consists of an invagination in the membrane. These integral proteins assist in receptor-independent endocytosis; the third member of this family is found only in smooth and striated muscle.
Lipid rafts restrict the lateral diffusion predicted by this model of the cell membrane as a lipid bilayer containing embedded proteins, which was proposed by S. J. Singer and G. L. Nicolson.
lipid rafts
caveolins
fluid mosaic model
A method of determining this quantity puts a sample in a capillary tube, which is then placed over a heated plate, and recording when the desired transition occurs when viewed through a lens. For 10 points each:
Name this temperature at which a substance changes from a solid to a liquid.
By assuming that every atom in a crystal vibrates at the same frequency, one can derive an expression to predict the melting point of a bulk crystal using this assumption that melting occurs when the RMS amplitude of vibration exceeds some threshold related to atomic spacing.
Carnelley’s rule states that molecules with higher symmetry will have a higher melting point, a textbook example of which is this five-carbon alkane that melts at a higher temperature than its “n” and “iso” counterparts.
melting point [accept freezing point]
Lindemann’s criterion
neopentane
This is the smallest projective plane such that distinct points <em>P</em> and <em>Q</em> will both be on a distinct line <em>L</em>, that every pair of lines intersects in a point, and that there are three points on each line. For 10 points each:
Name this projective plane over the finite field with two elements, which consists of seven lines and seven points.
For an affine plane of order n, adjoining n + 1 points at this location will form a projective plane. The Alexandroff one-point compactification adds one point at this location.
Forming that projective plane involves adjoining the points at infinity to each pencil of this type of line. In an affine plane, the axiom of this name states that if a point P is not contained in a line L, there is a unique line M such that P is in M and M has this property with respect to L.
Fano plane
infinity [accept at an infinite distance]
parallel
This compound can be formed when barrelene undergoes a di-pi-methane rearrangement. For 10 points each:
Name this isomer of cyclo·octa·tetra·ene named for its similar structure to a fluxional molecule.
The mechanism of the photoconversion of barrelene to semibullvalene can be analyzed using a “scrambling” technique named for these entities, which also name a “kinetic” effect in which reaction rates change with the substitution of one of these things. Ones for hydrogen include deuterium and tritium.
Semibullvalene is named for bullvalene, a molecule that constantly undergoes a degenerate example of this [3,3] sigmatropic rearrangement of a 1,5-diene.
semibullvalene
isotopes [accept kinetic isotope effect or isotope scrambling]
Cope rearrangement
Unlike coma and the other Seidel aberrations, this effect occurs even for objects on the optical axis. For 10 points each:
Name this optical aberration in which lenses fail to focus all incoming rays to a single point due to the lenses’ curvature.
Like astigmatism, spherical aberration is classified as an aberration of this order because this is the lowest order at which the effect appears in the Taylor series expansion of Snell’s law.
To minimize spherical aberration, or astigmatism, the image screen can be moved to this position, at which point the diameter of the blurred image is at a minimum.
spherical aberration
third order [or order 3]
circle of least confusion [or dioptic midpoint]
This theorem is proven by taking two arbitrary states, applying the same unitary operation to both, and showing that the two states originally must have been either orthogonal or identical to each other. For 10 points each:
Identify this theorem that states that duplicating arbitrary quantum information is impossible.
The no-cloning theorem is typically applied to these units of quantum information. These quantum analogs of bits are often visualized with the Bloch sphere.
To recover information in qubits distorted by quantum noise, this mathematician devised one of the first quantum error-correcting codes. His namesake algorithm can factor large integers and thus break RSA cryptography in polynomial time.
no-cloning theorem [or no-clone theorem; prompt on “no-go theorem”]
qubits
Peter Shor [accept Shor’s algorithm or Shor’s codes]
Isoamyl alcohol may be used in this technique as an anti-foaming agent, and a form of this protocol adds guanidinium thiocyanate to denature RNAses. For 10 points each:
Identify this nucleic acid purification protocol named for the two chemicals that form its organic phase. Acidic solution may be used in this technique to separate DNA from RNA.
Nucleic acids may also be purified using one of these items, which are used with a centrifuge. When these items are used, DNA binds to the silica found within them, impurities are washed away, and then the DNA is washed out with an elution buffer.
This substance is often added to the binding buffer when using a spin column and can be added to DNA solutions to precipitate DNA. This two-carbon alcohol is preferred to isopropanol due to being more polar and more volatile.
phenol-chloroform extraction
spin columns
ethanol [or ethyl alcohol; or EtOH; accept C2H5OH]
Answer some questions about how charged particles move in electromagnetic fields, for 10 points each:
This quantity for a charged particle in a constant magnetic field is equal to “charge times B-field strength over two-pi times mass,” and describes its gyration around a guiding center.
This force on a charged particle in a uniform electric and magnetic field is equal to “charge times E-field, plus charge times velocity cross the B-field.”
The drift velocity of a charged particle in a nonuniform magnetic field that doesn’t vary with time consists of two components. One results from changing field strength and the other results from the bending of field lines. Name both.
cyclotron frequency [prompt on frequency]
Lorentz force
grad-B drift and curvature drift [or gradient drift and curvature drift] &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
A high concentration of malonyl-CoA (“co-A”) inhibits the addition of this molecule, which has a quaternary ammonium ion beta to its hydroxyl group. For 10 points each:
Name this molecule that is added and removed from fatty acids through its palmitoyl-transferases I and II, which are located on different sides of the mitochondrial membrane.
The carnitine shuttle transports fatty acids into the mitochondria for use in beta-oxidation, the process of producing this molecule by breaking down fatty acids. It is produced from pyruvate by the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex.
This isozyme of acyl-CoA dehydrogenase acts on fatty acids of lengths four to fourteen carbons. The most common disruption of fatty acid oxidation is a mutation of the gene encoding this enzyme, which results in hypoglycemia and liver dysfunction during fasting.
carnitine [accept carnitine palmitoyltransferase I or II]
acetyl-CoA [or acetyl coenzyme A]
medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase [or MCAD] &lt;AK, Biology&gt;
The alpha types of these compounds can be synthesized by the addition of a namesake succinimide compound to an alkyne after hydrometalation. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds that can be synthesized from hydrazones by the addition of a guanidine base in the Barton synthesis. These compounds react faster than similar chlorine- and bromine-based compounds in cross-coupling reactions.
Hydrazones are formed in the first step of this reaction, in which the addition of a base, hydrazine, and heat to a carbonyl produces an alkane.
The Wolff–Kishner reaction also produces this diatomic gas, which is removed from the diimide intermediate to form a carbanion. The copper(I) (“copper-one”)-catalyzed production of aryl radicals in the Sandmeyer reaction also releases this gas.
vinyl iodides [or iodoalkenes]
Wolff–Kishner reaction [or Wolff–Kishner reduction]
nitrogen gas [or N2] &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
The Landau–Zener formula gives the probability of a transition of this kind between two energy states. For 10 points each:
Give this term that also describes a representation that describes multiple potential energy surfaces wherein the nuclear kinetic energy operator is diagonal. In this kind of representation, coupling is due to electronic energy and is scalar, which greatly simplifies numerical estimation.
The calculation of diabatic potentials is often necessary when this approximation for calculating the wavefunction of a complex particle does not hold. This approximation assumes that nuclear movement and electron movement are separable.
That application of diabatic potentials also involves re-casting the “molecular” version of this equation into a set of coupled eigenvalue equations. The time-independent version of this equation states that H-psi equals E-psi.
diabatic [accept diabatic representation or diabatic transition; accept pseudo-diabatic or non-adiabatic; DO NOT ACCEPT “adiabatic” or word forms]
Born–Oppenheimer approximation
Schrödinger equation &lt;RH, Physics&gt;
One member of this genus responsible for the soft rot of root tissues in infected plants has its virulence controlled by the cutinase genes <em>cut1</em> (“cut-one”) and <em>cut2</em> (“cut-two”). For 10 points each:
Name this genus of pathogenic ascomycetes whose graminearum species causes a namesake head blight in staple grasses like barley and wheat, leading to shriveled grain kernels and vomiting when ingested.
Another species of Fusarium posing a major risk to commercial agriculture is F. oxysporum, which famously caused this disease that wiped out the Gros Michel (“grow mee-SHELL”) banana crop in the 1950s. Alarmingly, this disease is also threatening the modern Cavendish banana crop.
Another pathogenic fungus that threatens modern agriculture is Ustilago maydis, which causes the smut named for this other staple crop. This crop was also used by Barbara McClintock in her experiments that led to the discovery of transposons.
Fusarium [prompt on Gibberella]
Panama disease [prompt on Fusarium wilt; or green leaf syndrome; or yellow leaf syndrome]
corn [or maize; or Zea mays; or Z. mays; or corn smut] &lt;RH, Biology&gt;
Pseudomorphs are formed when a mineral adopts this macroscopic property of another mineral. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the general shape that a mineral takes when it crystallizes. Examples of this property include botryoidal, describing the grape-like appearance of hematite, and acicular, describing the needle-like appearance of rutile in quartz.
This group of silicate minerals names a habit characterized by strong and flexible hairlike fibers. These minerals were widely used in insulation until it was discovered that their inhalation can cause lung cancer and mesothelioma.
This is the term for a pseudomorph that grows on the original mineral, with the original mineral sometimes dissolving to create a hollow space known as a “cast.”
crystal habit
asbestos
epimorph [or epimorphy; or incustration pseudomorph; or perimorph] &lt;EC, Other Science (Earth)&gt;
For modeling chemical bonds, the Morse potential deviates from the quantum harmonic oscillator by allowing this process to occur. For 10 points each:
Name this process that has an energy equal to the potential well depth in the Morse potential. Doing this to a bond generally requires a high energy from sources like heat or UV light and results in two radicals with unpaired electrons.
Description acceptable. The equation for the energies of the Morse potential includes a negative quadratic term multiplied by a constant named for this general behavior. The constant creates a non-parabolic plot of bond energy versus displacement and causes energy levels to converge.
Graphically, bond dissociation energy can be found using a Birge–Sponer plot, which sums delta energy terms with subscripts with this expression in terms of a vibrational energy level v. This expression in terms of v also appears in the power series for anharmonic solutions for oscillating systems that are more accurate than the Morse potential.
bond dissociation [or homolysis; or photolysis; or bond cleavage; or breaking; or anything ending with “lysis”]
anharmonicity [or deviation from harmonicity; prompt on anything mentioning nonideality]
v plus one-half [or half integers; or odd number divided by 2] &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
German historian Arno Peters aroused controversy when he introduced a self-declared ideal one of these constructs that had actually been first developed more than century earlier by James Gall. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs that seek to represent the features of the globe on a two-dimensional surface. The Mercator type of these constructs was developed to preserve the linearity of rhumb lines.
Map projections are produced from datums that specify latitude and longitude on a reference ellipsoid as part of this field which, more broadly, studies the measurement and representation of the Earth.
This construct named for a French mathematician measures distortion in a given map projection by projecting circles at different locations on the map.
map projections
geodesy (“jee-AH-duh-see”) [or geodetics]
Tissot’s indicatrix [or Tissot’s indicatrices; or Tissot’s ellipses] &lt;JN, Geography&gt;
A cellulose acetate membrane named for Loeb and Sourirajan is commonly used for this process due to its high flux. For 10 points each:
Name this process that is divided into pretreatment, pressurization, separation, and stabilization stages. The pore diameter for this process is typically lower than for nanofiltration.
Reverse osmosis is a “membrane” method of performing this process, which reduces the mineral content of seawater. Around one percent of the world’s population are dependent on water obtained from this process.
Around half of the world’s desalinated water is produced through this other desalination technique, in which feed brine water is boiled rapidly at successively lower pressures. It utilizes countercurrent heat exchangers, unlike a similar multi-effect technique.
reverse osmosis [or RO; prompt on partial answer; prompt on but do NOT reveal desalination]
desalination [or desalinization; DO NOT accept “destalinization”]
multi-stage flash distillation [or MSF distillation; prompt on thermal desalination] &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
In 2017, a team led by Michaël Rao performed a computer-assisted proof that there were only fifteen families of irregular pentagons that can be used to perform this task. For 10 points each:
Name this task that can be done aperiodically with patterns named for Penrose. For regular polygons, the pentagon is the simplest shape for which this task is impossible.
Fortune’s algorithm uses parabolas to approximate the “beach line” of these tessellations, which are the dual of a Delaunay triangulation. They consist of Thiessen polygons, regions closest to one point within a set of points.
The first aperiodic tiling is made of 20,426 of these four-colored tiles. Because these tiles can be used to simulate Turing machines, the undecidability of their tiling was linked to the halting problem by Robert Berger, the student of their namesake.
tessellation [or tiling the plane]
Voronoi diagrams [or Voronoi tessellations; or Dirichlet (“dee-reesh-LAY”) tessellations]
Wang tiles (They are named for mathematician Hao Wang.) &lt;RK, Math&gt;
In a classic study of these cellular components, J. Z. Young demonstrated that application of a sodium citrate solution to one end of them would generate a rhythmic discharge at the other end. For 10 points each:
Name these specific cellular components that are linked to the water-propulsion defense response in a certain type of animal. These structures can grow up to one millimeter in diameter and several centimeters in length.
One of the most useful properties of squid giant axons is that a roller can be applied along their length to extract several microliters of a relatively pure sample of this substance. More generally, nuclear cargo bound to exportin will diffuse through the nuclear pore and [emphasize] into this substance.
Voltage clamp electrodes were placed inside the lumen of the squid giant axon in the experiment that led to the discovery of this set of nonlinear, differential equations, which model the propagation of an action potential by treating each component of an excitatory cell as a different electrical element.
squid giant axons [prompt on partial answers; accept giant squid axons, but do not accept synonyms for “giant”; accept answers mentioning any specific species of squid, such as the Humboldt squid]
cytoplasm [or cytosol; or axoplasm]
Hodgkin–Huxley model [accept conductance-based model] &lt;RH, Biology&gt;
One equation named for this scientist relates the time derivative of the fluid velocity with the divergence of the outer product of velocity and the velocity with the various forces acting on the fluid. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist who names that momentum equation. A quantity named for this scientist is equal to the product of the stiffness tensor and compliance matrix.
Constitutive relations used in the Cauchy momentum equation relate the stress tensor with this quantity for the fluid, which characterizes its resistance to flow.
This simple model of viscosity, which is accurate at intermediate values of shear rate, states that the viscosity is equal to the flow consistency index times the shear rate to the n-minus-one power. For Newtonian fluids, n is equal to one, since the viscosity is constant.
Augustin-Louis Cauchy (“koh-SHEE”)
viscosity [accept bulk viscosity or dynamic viscosity or kinematic viscosity]
power law fluid model [or Ostwald–de Waele power law fluid model] &lt;RD, Physics&gt;
Answer the following about neutrino experiments, for 10 points each:
This detector, built under the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station in Antarctica, identifies neutrinos using a network of optical sensors called DOMs connected to photomultiplier tubes. It detected the first cosmic neutrinos in December 2013.
In 2011, the OPERA (“opera”) neutrino experiment observed muon neutrinos exceeding this value, an apparent violation of special relativity. It was later determined that the measurement resulted from a timing error.
Observations from the LSND detector at Los Alamos and the MiniBooNE (“mini-boon”) experiment at Fermilab suggest the existence of this type of neutrino, which has right-handed chirality.
IceCube Neutrino Observatory
speed of light [or c]
sterile neutrino &lt;PS, Physics&gt;
Binding of this plant hormone inactivates a negative regulatory protein named for its active ZIM (“zim”) domain, which allows MYC2 (“mic-two”) to interact with its co-activator MED25 (“med-twenty-five”). For 10 points each:
Name this plant hormone whose binding in wild-type Arabidopsis triggers a reduced growth phenotype in response to a stimulus, such as herbivory.
One way in which herbivory triggers the biosynthesis of jasmonate is when this enzyme from the wound response triggers the release of alpha-linoleic acid into the octadecanoid pathway. In another pathway, this enzyme cleaves PIP2 (“pip-two”) to yield IP3 (“eye-P-three”) and diacylglycerol.
JAZ (“jazz”) proteins, which inhibit the jasmonate pathway prior to ligand binding, are also inhibited by the DELLA (“della”) protein RGA in Arabidopsis, which is a negative regulator of this other hormone’s signaling pathway. This hormone is responsible for stem elongation, and was first discovered while investigating foolish seedling disease in rice.
jasmonate [or jasmonic acid; or JA]
PLC [or phospholipase C]
gibberellins &lt;RH, Biology&gt;
These objects can be detected by the lithium test, which can distinguish them from other low mass stars. For 10 points each:
Name these substellar objects that include Teide 1 and Gliese 229B, the first one of these objects to display a methane absorption band. These substellar objects are unable to sustain hydrogen fusion due to their insufficient mass.
These gas giants, whose masses are below those of brown dwarfs, are the easiest exoplanets to detect using the radial velocity method. The first exoplanet discovered, 51 Pegasi b, is one of these objects.
A hypothesis named for this term states that hot Jupiters form in the cold, outer regions of their solar system and travel inward until they orbit a star.
brown dwarfs
hot Jupiters
migration hypothesis [accept planetary migration] &lt;PS, Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;
Answer the following about people who studied magmas, for 10 points each:
This figure likely introduced the term magma, defined as a set equipped with a single binary operation, to abstract algebra. This pseudonym refers to a group of French mathematicians led by André Weil (“vay”) who sought the highest level of abstraction in their influential text Elements of Mathematics.
This thinker used the term magma to refer to a mode of indeterminate being presented by the “social imaginary significations in a given society” in The Imaginary Institution of Society. He also founded Socialisme ou Barbarie (“soh-see-ah-LEEZ-muh oo bar-bah-REE”) with Claude Lefort.
Plagioclase feldspars evolve from a calcium-rich to a sodium-rich form as magma cools according to the continuous branch of a reaction series developed by this geologist.
Nicolas Bourbaki (“boor-bah-KEE”) [accept Bourbaki group]
Cornelius Castoriadis
Norman Levi Bowen [accept Bowen’s reaction series] &lt;EC, Other Academic&gt;
This man developed a total synthesis of tropinone, a precursor to cocaine, by reacting succinaldehyde, methylamine, and acetonedicarboxylic acid through a double Mannich (“MAN-ick”) reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this chemist who developed the curved arrow notation used to represent the movement of electrons. A reaction named for him synthesizes the Wieland-Miescher (“WE-land ME-shur”) and Hajos-Parrish ketones used in steroid synthesis.
The aforementioned Robinson annulation is essentially a combination of a Michael addition and an intramolecular one of these reactions, in which an enol attacks a carbonyl.
The final step of the reaction proceeds through an E1cb (“E-one-C-B”) mechanism, during which a strong base causes the elimination of a proton and hydroxyl group, forming one of these structures that contain a pi and sigma bond.
Robert Robinson [accept Robinson annulation]
aldol reaction [or aldol addition; or aldol condensation]
carbon–carbon double bond &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
In one study, this compound was found to induce apoptosis in neuroblastoma models via the c-Jun (“C-jun”) N-terminal kinase pathway. For 10 points each:
Name this compound consisting of a central mercury atom bound to thiolate and ethyl ligands. Misguided allegations linking multi-dose flu vaccines to autism targeted this bacteriostatic compound.
Unlike the speculation around thimerosal toxicity in vaccines, a genuine concern for mercury poisoning is posed by methylmercury. One such result is this neurological syndrome named for the Japanese city in which it was first discovered to be linked to decades of methylmercury being released into nearby industrial wastewater.
Methylmercury is poisonous because it can complex with cysteine and easily cross this biological “barrier,” which is composed of densely-packed endothelial cells maintained by tight junctions.
thimerosal [or thiomersal]
Chisso–Minamata disease
blood-brain barrier [or BBB] &lt;RH, Biology&gt;
Solutions to this equation are often proportional to the square of the hyperbolic secant function. For 10 points each:
Name this equation that is written as [read slowly] “u-sub-t, plus six-u times u-sub-x, plus u-sub-triple-x, equals zero.” This nonlinear PDE is used to model shallow water.
Solutions to the KdV equation are often solitons, which are a type of these phenomena that maintain the shape of their packet as they travel at a constant speed. Zero velocity and fixed nodes are characteristic of the “standing” type of these phenomena.
The initial value problem of integrable nonlinear PDEs, like the KdV equation and sine-Gordon equation, can be solved using this technique. In this technique, the eigenvalue, reflection coefficient, and norming constants are used to find the potential through the namesake process by solving the Gelfand–Levitan–Marchenko integral equation.
KdV equation [or Korteweg–de Vries equation]
waves
inverse scattering transform [prompt on IST] &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
Answer these questions about how to determine the masses of supermassive black holes, for 10 points each:
Many methods approximate gas orbiting the black hole to travel in a circle, so the mass of the black hole is equal to the orbiting radius of the gas times velocity divided by big G. Using the small-angle approximation, the radius is equal to the angular size of the black hole times this quantity.
The velocity in the previous expression is this type of velocity which is directed along the line of sight of an observer. This kind of velocity names a method for finding exoplanets by measuring the wobble of a star as it is orbited by a planet.
The radius of the gas’s orbit can also be determined using this method, in which recombination radiation causes the light travel time of radiation to vary. The radius is equal to the speed of light times the time “lag” seen on a light curve of the black hole.
distance to the black hole
radial velocity
reverberation mapping &lt;RD, Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;
This trajectory was used to derive the Felkin–Anh model, which predicts the diastereomers produced by addition reactions. For 10 points each:
Name this angle taken by nucleophiles as they attack carbonyl groups.
The Bürgi–Dunitz angle has a value of approximately 107 degrees because it maximizes the overlap between the HOMO (“HO-mo”) of the nucleophile and this molecular orbital of the carbon-oxygen bond, which serves as the LUMO (“LOO-mo”) in the reaction.
The Bürgi–Dunitz angle is very close to the bond angles in this geometry, which is the transition state geometry in the nucleophilic addition to carbonyls. This is also the geometry of methane.
Bürgi–Dunitz angle [or Bürgi–Dunitz trajectory; prompt on BD angle]
pi-star orbital [or pi antibonding orbital; prompt on just antibonding, but DO NOT accept or prompt on just “pi”]
tetrahedral geometry &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
Seymour Benzer discovered a countercurrent distribution of <em>Drosophila</em> deficient in this ability in a landmark 1967 experiment. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon discovered to be lacking in sevenless Drosophila mutants. In Benzer’s experiment, flies lacking this phenomenon produced a random migration, whereas wild-type flies showed a guided migration.
The phototaxis-deficient sevenless mutants in Benzer’s experiment have structural defects in these units of the arthropod eye. A normal one of these structures contains eight photoreceptor cells, and sevenless flies are so-named for possessing a mutation in the seventh of those cells.
During eye development in wild-type flies, the sevenless protein functions by producing a receptor kinase dependent on this amino acid with a phenol side group that, like phenylalanine and tryptophan, is aromatic.
UV-light detection [accept phototaxis; prompt on vision or sight]
ommatidium [or ommatidia]
tyrosine [accept receptor tyrosine kinase; prompt on Y] &lt;RH, Biology&gt;
For an operator <em>x</em>, this quantity is equal to the square root of the expectation value of delta-<em>x</em>-squared, where delta-<em>x</em> is the difference between <em>x</em> and the expectation value of <em>x</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity whose product for two incompatible observables, such as position and momentum, is always greater than or equal to Planck’s constant over four-pi.
For two observable operators A and B, the generalized uncertainty principle states that “the variance of A, times the variance of B” must be greater than or equal to the square of “one over two-i times this function of A and B.”
At time zero, the uncertainty of a wave packet is minimized if the wave packet is of this type. The wave function of a free particle takes on this form.
uncertainty [prompt on “standard deviation” or “sigma”]
square of the expectation value of the commutator of A and B [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
Gaussian wave packet &lt;RD, Physics&gt;
Hopcroft and Tarjan developed a linear-time algorithm to test for this property that relies on depth-first search. For 10 points each:
Give this property of graphs with thickness one. Algorithmic testing of this property is based on the work of Auslander and Parter, and seeks to improve naively searching for forbidden subgraphs isomorphic to K-sub-5 or K-sub-3-3.
One property of planar graphs is that they possess a planar dual graph, which are constructed by swapping these two components of a graph. The sum of the number of these two features minus the number of edges equals the Euler characteristic.
In 1990, Carsten Thomassen utilized planarity criteria to formulate a proof of this simple theorem. J. W. Alexander used a construction made by repeatedly connecting punctured toruses together called his “horned sphere” to show this theorem didn’t extend to three dimensions.
planarity [or planar]
vertices and faces [accept V and F]
Jordan curve theorem [or Jordan–Schönflies (“SHURN-flees”) theorem] &lt;RK, Math&gt;
Answer the following about Harry Partch’s contributions to music theory, for 10 points each:
Partch coined this term, which quantifies the harmonic complexity of a piece of music or a tuning system. The just intonation system known as five-prime-[this term] does not use frequency ratios with prime factors higher than five, so all intervals are formed by combining octaves, perfect fifths, and major thirds.
By constructing his eleven-limit 43-tone scale, Partch furthered Schoenberg’s (“SHURN-burg’s”) goal of “emancipating” this concept. This term describes unpleasant sounding intervals like the minor second and the tritone.
Partch defined an otonality (“OH-tonality”) as a chord made of an arithmetic (“AIR-ith-MET-ic”) sequence of frequencies. An otonality with the ratio 4-to-5-to-6-to-7 can be approximated as this type of chord in equal temperament, one example of which is made of the notes A, C-sharp, E, and G in the key of D.
limit
dissonance [accept word forms]
dominant seventh chord [or V7 (“five-seven”); or dom 7; or major minor seventh chord; prompt on seventh chord] &lt;EC, Classical Music&gt;
This compound is produced by oxidizing isoeugenol (“iso-YOO-gen-all”) with nitrobenzene in basic conditions. For 10 points each:
Name this fragrance compound that can also be synthesized through the reaction of guaiacol (“GWAI-uh-col”) with alkali chloroform via a carbene intermediate in a variation of the Reimer–Tiemann reaction. In nature, the biosynthesis of this compound in orchids makes use of the phenyl-propanoid pathway.
More recently, Mayu Yamamoto developed a method of isolating vanillin from this material in cow manure. This polymer of coumaryl, coniferyl, and syringyl alcohols is removed from wood in the Kraft process through the addition of water, sodium hydroxide, and sodium sulfide.
Vanillin is closely related to anisaldehyde, which can be used as a stain for this lab technique in which a solvent moves up a silica-coated plate.
vanillin [accept methyl vanillin; or vanillic aldehyde; accept 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde]
lignin
thin layer chromatography [or TLC; prompt on chromatography] &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
Answer some questions about the Vlasov equation, for 10 points each:
The Vlasov equation is a collisionless form of an equation named for this physicist, whose namesake constant equals the ideal gas constant over Avogadro’s number.
Integrating the Vlasov equation over the velocity space gives one of these equations describing the change in plasma density over time. These equations describe the transport of a particular physical quantity and are local forms of conservation laws.
The frozen-in approximation, which assumes that a plasma is tied to a magnetic field, can be applied to the Vlasov equation by setting the speed scale V equal to the quotient of these two quantities. Name both.
Ludwig Boltzmann
continuity equations
gyrofrequency AND gyroradius [accept cyclotron frequency in place of “gyrofrequency”; accept radius of gyration, Larmor radius, or cyclotron radius in place of “gyroradius”] &lt;PS, Physics&gt;
During World War II, this chemist advised the Norwegian heavy water-production facility that would later be targeted by the British in Operation Gunnerside. For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian-born chemist who also worked with Harold Urey to perform elemental analysis on meteorites. Those experiments by this scientist would provide a fundamental basis for the physical explanation of “magic numbers” that led his collaborator Hans Jensen to develop the shell model of the nucleus.
One of Suess’s earliest notable papers was an analysis of the kinetics of thermal polymerization in the dissolved form of this compound. This benzene-derivative with an attached -vinyl group is an oily liquid at room temperature.
Hans Suess also discovered the effect in which heavy isotopes of this element are diluted in the atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels. This element’s heaviest isotope has a 5,700-year half-life that is used in radiometric dating.
Hans Suess
styrene [prompt on ethenylbenzene or phenylethane; accept polystyrene since it is a polymer of styrene monomers]
carbon [or C] &lt;RH, Chemistry&gt;
In the A-subtype of this phase, the director is parallel to the normal vector of each layer, while in the C-subtype, the director lies at an angle to the normal vector. For 10 points each:
Name this phase characterized by distinct layers with directional and translational order, unlike the long range order of the nematic phase.
Smectic and nematic phases are exhibited by these materials, which exhibit properties in between those of an ordered solid and disordered liquid and are used in namesake displays.
In an effect that underlies many LCD screens of calculators, the application of an electric field causes liquid crystals arranged in this configuration to change to the nematic phase, resulting in a dark pixel or segment.
smectic phase [or smectic A phase; or smectic C phase; prompt on SmA; prompt on SmC]
liquid crystals [accept liquid crystal displays or LCDs]
helix [or helices; prompt on twisted or T] &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
Cell therapy techniques, such as stem cell transplants, can be broadly classified into two categories based on the source of the cells being transplanted. For 10 points each:
While techniques that treat patients with another person’s cells are termed allogeneic, this term is used to describe techniques in which the patient’s own cells are modified and used in the treatment.
Recent cell therapy research has focused on modifying these lymphocytes to express chimeric antigen receptors on their surfaces. These cells exist in “cytotoxic” and “helper” varieties, and predominantly mature in the thymus.
Production of autogeneic CAR-T (“car-T”) cells frequently involves the use of these restriction enzymes that may be engineered to cut precise regions of DNA. Secreted by Xanthomonas type-3 secretion systems, these enzymes have their cleavage domain from the FokI endonuclease fused to a repeat variable diresidue, unlike zinc finger nucleases.
autologous [or autogenous; or autogeneic; or autogenic]
T cells [accept cytotoxic T cells or helper T cells or T lymphocytes]
TALENs [or transcription activator-like effector nucleases; prompt on endonucleases] &lt;AK, Biology&gt;
The four steps of this algorithm are: [read slowly] append a character to the input, create a matrix of circular shifts of the input, lexicographically sort them, then return the last column of the matrix. For 10 points each:
Name this transformation named for two British computer scientists that can also be efficiently computed with a suffix array.
Because the Burrows–Wheeler transform outputs strings with long runs of single characters, it can be used for this process. This process reduces the amount of data that information takes up, and can be done in a lossy or lossless way.
The Burrows–Wheeler transform is used in many algorithms that perform this task. The Needleman–Wunsch algorithm is a dynamic programming algorithm for this task, which can use PAM (“pam”) or BLOSUM (“blow-sum”) substitution matrices for scoring.
Burrows–Wheeler transform [or BWT]
compression
sequence alignment [accept nucleotide sequence alignment or amino acid sequence alignment] &lt;AK, Computer Science&gt;
In lattice QCD, preserving this property leads to the existence of twice as many states than a continuum, a phenomenon known as fermion doubling. For 10 points each:
Name this property that a gauge theory has if rotating either the left-handed or right-handed components of the Dirac field has no effect on the Lagrangian. This property implies that fermions must be massless.
QCD is a theory of the strong force that arises from gluon-mediated interactions between these elementary particles that make up hadrons. Ones named “charm” and “strange” belong to their second generation.
This physicist introduced lattice QCD to non-perturbatively model the strong force. He also names a quantity that is the trace of a path-ordered exponential of the gauge field along a closed curve, his namesake “loop.”
chiral symmetry
quarks
Kenneth Wilson [or Ken Wilson; accept Wilson loop] &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
In this process, autoinducers like halogenated furanones and N-acyl homoserine lactones are secreted as signaling peptides. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a high concentration of autoinducers leads to a change in an organism’s behavior.
Quorum sensing was discovered in Aliivibrio fischeri, a bacterium that uses it exclusively for transcription of luciferase when population densities are high. Luciferase catalyzes this process in which an organism emits light.
The Las and Rhl systems produce three different autoinducers, including the quinolone-derivative PQS, in this Gram-negative bacterium. High concentrations of those molecules indicate biofilm formation due to this bacterium.
quorum sensing [or QS; prompt on chemotaxis]
bioluminescence [or chemiluminescence; prompt on luminescence]
Pseudomonas aeruginosa [or P. aeruginosa; prompt on Pseudomonas] &lt;AK, Biology&gt;
This technique computes a second-order correlation function that equals the time-averaged autocorrelation of intensity of laser light over the time averaged intensity squared. For 10 points each:
Name this technique used to analyze polymer solutions. In this technique, a second-order correlation function is related to a first order correlation function expressed as the negative exponential of a power series in terms of the delay time tau. That is the cumulant method.
Dynamic light scattering can be used to measure dispersity, which is the variation of this quantity for the monomers of a polymer. This quantity can be measured in daltons or grams per mole.
Examples of these compounds used in radical polymerization include AIBN and benzoyl peroxide, which are photolytically cleaved to catalyze the first step of radical polymerization.
dynamic light scattering [or DLS]
molecular weight [or molecular mass; or molar mass]
initiators [or initiation] &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
These features are hypothesized to deepen from elevated abrasion from rock avalanching. For 10 points each:
Name these amphitheatre-shaped basins that form the head of alpine glaciers. Lakes called tarns often develop in these features after glaciation ends.
An alternative hypothesis describes how upslope water drainage causes variable water pressure, resulting in this weathering mechanism that is heightened in cirques. This process involves the removal of large rock masses from the bed.
The growth of ice lenses in the unglaciated region between the glacier and one of these regions is responsible for rock supply upslope of the cirque. These regions are defined by the presence of permafrost but little permanent surface ice.
cirque [or corrie; or cwm (“koom”)]
plucking [or quarrying]
periglacials &lt;JN, Other Science (Earth)&gt;
This quantity can be determined by finding the indentation size created by square pyramid shaped diamonds. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is approximately equal to 1.854 times the applied load over the indentation area. It is most commonly applied to metals and ceramics.
The impact resistance of a material is most commonly measured using two tests. In the first, the load is applied perpendicularly to a suspended sample, while in the second the sample is held vertically. Name either.
A third mechanical test pulls aparts the ends of a sample until failure to determine this quantity. This quantity is equal to stress over strain.
Vickers hardness [or HV; prompt on partial answer; prompt on “diamond pyramid (hardness)”]
Charpy (“shar-PEE”) V-notch test OR Izod (“EYE-zod”) test [prompt on “(V-)notch”]
Young’s modulus [or elastic modulus] &lt;RD, Physics&gt;
Answer some questions about the conditions required for a sequence to be convergent and the properties it may have, for 10 points each:
If a sequence is convergent, then the sequence has one of these. A sequence has an “upper” one of these if there exists a number M such that every term in the sequence is less than or equal to M.
If a sequence has this property, then it is convergent if and only if it is bounded, according to a namesake convergence theorem. For example, if a sequence has one form of this property, it must be bounded and converge to its supremum or be unbounded and tend toward infinity.
This condition establishes convergence for a sequence s if and only if for all positive epsilon, there exists a point in the sequence beyond which the difference between two terms of s is less than epsilon. It’s particularly useful because it doesn’t reference the actual limit value.
bounds
monotone [or monotonicity or other word forms]
Cauchy criterion [or being a Cauchy sequence] &lt;JX, Math&gt;
Answer some questions about how BCS theory models superconductivity, for 10 points each:
A fundamental result of BCS theory is that electrons condense into Cooper pairs, as the system’s creation and annihilation operators cause electrons to behave like these integer-spin particles instead of like fermions.
Near the critical temperature, BCS theory results in the specific heat capacity having a temperature dependence given by this function. In a superconductor, the B-field scales with this function of open quantity negative x over the penetration depth close quantity.
In BCS theory, the Hamiltonian’s eigenfunctions can be found by applying the mean-field approximation to write H as a product of creation and annihilation operators, casting the result into matrix form, and diagonalizing the matrix using this unitary transformation.
bosons
exponential [or e to the x; accept e to the negative-x]
Bogoliubov (“bo-go-LEW-boff”) transformation &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
The creator of this concept gave examples of its consequences in the Barcelona Airport, the Madrid Atocha station, and the architecture of Rem Koolhaas (“KOHL-hoss”). For 10 points each:
Name this concept which Manuel Castells (“mun-WELL kuh-STAILSS”) defined as a type of space that allows for “simultaneity of social practices without territorial contiguity.”
Castells applied the concept of the space of flows to the “information” type of these constructs, and wrote a book about the rise of a society named for these constructs. Social actors and the ties between them make up the “social” form of this construct.
Alain Touraine (“ah-LAN too-REN”), a major influence on Castells, coined this term for a condition in which services yield greater wealth than manufacturing. A Daniel Bell book is named for the “coming of” this condition.
space of flows [or el espacio de los flujos or l’espai dels fluxos]
networks
post-industrial society [or société post-industrielle] &lt;JN, Social Science&gt;
This specific technique can use iTRAQ (“eye-track”) reagents for labeling, but more often uses namesake isobaric duplex or sixplex tags. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which a product ion is produced from a precursor ion via fragmentation and is subsequently run through a second analyzer. This technique is used after liquid chromatography in protein sequencing.
In protein sequencing using tandem MS, peptide fragments containing the C-terminus are labeled x through z, while fragments containing the N-terminus are labeled a through c. The terms C-terminus and N-terminus refer to the carboxylic acid and amine groups that define these molecules, the building blocks of proteins.
Tandem MS can use a configuration notated as two capital versions of this letter representing mass analyzers separated by a lowercase version of this letter representing the collision cell. This letter is used in that notation due to the device used in those elements.
tandem mass spectrometry [or tandem MS; or MS MS; or MS2; or MS squared; or MSn; prompt on mass spectrometry or MS; prompt on top-down proteomics]
amino acids
q [or Q; or QqQ; or quadrupole] &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
In the process mediated by this protein, the AP2 (“A-P-two”) complex triggers cargo internalizing via IP3 signaling and subsequently binds to this protein. For 10 points each:
Name this protein that arranges into a trimeric triskelion and forms a structure that is later broken up in the cytoplasm.
The clathrin coat in that process of endocytosis surrounds one of these structures, lipid bilayer bubbles that transport molecules throughout the cytoplasm of the cell.
During clathrin-mediated endocytosis, this GTPase (“G-T-P-ase”) is responsible for the scission of the vesicle from the membrane as it polymerizes into a helical tube that constricts the neck of the vesicle in twisting motion.
clathrin coat
vesicles
dynamin &lt;AK, Biology&gt;
One of these functional groups is the bidentate ligand in Crabtree’s catalyst. For 10 points each:
Name this functional group that coordinates to transition metals through a combination of sigma donation and backbonding according to the Dewar-Chatt-Duncanson model.
Zeise’s salt, a transition metal alkene complex, contains a trichlorinated platinum atom bonded to this simplest alkene, with formula C2H4.
This kind of reaction, the reverse of a beta-hydride elimination, often occurs when alkenes complex with transition metals. Unfilled and reactive coordination sites are represented as boxes for the “migratory” kind of these reactions.
alkenes [or olefins]
ethylene [or ethene]
migratory insertions &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
A function that is holomorphic within an annulus can be written as one of these series within that annulus. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of series that expresses a function about a point c as the sum of terms containing coefficients “a-sub-n times quantity z minus c to the nth power,” with n ranging from negative to positive infinity. The “n equals negative-one” coefficient of this series is the residue at the singularity c.
Laurent series are useful because a function cannot be written out as one of these series about a point if the neighborhood of that point contains a singularity. This series is a power series with coefficients proportional to a function’s derivatives, and a Maclaurin series is one of them centered at zero.
For a holomorphic function f and a point a, if the principal part, or negative degree terms, of the Laurent series has infinitely many terms, then the point a is one of these points.
Laurent series [prompt on power series]
Taylor series [or Taylor expansion]
essential singularity [prompt on singularity] &lt;AK, Math&gt;
In dielectric materials, a term equal to the time derivative of polarization is added to this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that, in a vacuum, is equal to permittivity of free space multiplied by the time derivative of electric field. It is also the time derivative of electric flux density.
Displacement current density appears in Maxwell’s correction to Ampère’s law, whose differential form states that the curl of this quantity is equal to the product of current density and magnetic permeability.
Combing Maxwell’s equations produces two differential equations that can be solved to find the wave equations of light. In a vacuum, one of the equations states that [read slowly] the second time derivative of the magnetic field is equal to this expression, in terms of a differential operator, the magnetic field, and the speed of light.
displacement current density
magnetic field [or B-field]
Laplacian of magnetic field times speed of light squared [accept “del-squared B times c-squared”; accept “divergence of the gradient” instead of “Laplacian” or “del-squared”] &lt;RD, Physics&gt;
Answer the following about planting trees in urban spaces to mitigate the negative consequences of urbanization, for 10 points each:
Planting trees along sidewalks and throughout cities is beneficial because their shading is very effective at mitigating an effect named for these locations, in which an urban area is significantly warmer than its surrounding rural areas. Robert MacArthur and E. O. Wilson coined the term for the biogeography of these isolated locations.
A limiting factor in the use of trees in urban areas is their production of the “biogenic” variety of these compounds. Harmful tropospheric ozone is formed when these compounds, such as isoprene and its derivatives, react with sunlight and abundant NOx compounds produced in fossil fuel emission.
A tree’s relative impact on its environment may be estimated by calculating the “projection area” named for this portion of the tree. Consisting of the tree’s outward-growing foliage and branches, this portion of the tree is also characterized by its namesake volume-index, radius, and height.
islands [accept urban heat island effect; prompt on UHI effect]
biogenic VOCs [or volatile organic compounds]
tree crown [accept crown projection area or crown radius or crown volume index or crown height] &lt;RH, Biology&gt;
Answer the following about the antiquated Thomas–Fermi model, for 10 points each:
The Thomas–Fermi model was superseded by a theory named after this quantity based on the Hohenberg–Kohn theorems. The first of those theorems states that the external potential is a unique functional of this quantity.
Instead of calculating the wavefunction, the Thomas–Fermi model relies on calculating the terms representing kinetic and potential energy to then calculate this quantum mechanical operator representing the system’s total energy.
In the Thomas–Fermi model, the kinetic energy is proportional to the volume integral of the electron density raised to this power.
electron density [accept density functional theory; or charge density; prompt on DFT]
Hamiltonian [or H]
five-thirds [or five over three; or 5/3] &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
These phenomena can become “glassy” when they are “pinned” by impurities and lattice defects according to the nonlinear Fukuyama–Lee–Rice model of them. For 10 points each:
Name these transport phenomena studied in condensed matter physics, often paired with a similar “spin” variety caused by electron-phonon interactions. These phenomena discovered by Rudolf Peierls (“PIE-earls”) have been primarily modeled in niobium triselenide.
CDWs are mostly favored in conductors with a “quasi” form of this property, like niobium triselenide. Unlike harder-to-model square lattices, this type of system exhibits no phase transitions, according to the work of Rudolf Peierls and Ernst Ising (“EE-zing”).
CDWs are theorized to be induced by the “nesting” of a surface named for this man. The formation of CDWs is also aided by a gap in this man’s namesake “level,” which has a fifty percent chance of being occupied by an electron.
charge density waves [or CDWs]
one-dimensional [or 1-D; prompt on low-dimensional]
Enrico Fermi [accept Fermi level] &lt;RK, Physics&gt;
Answer some questions about X-ray binary systems, for 10 points each:
X-ray binaries are composed of a donor, usually a normal star, and an accretor. The accretor is an extremely dense object, and can be a black hole, white dwarf, or one of these stars with an upper bound of three solar masses by the TOV (“T-O-V”) limit.
These objects are the only type of X-ray binaries to emit radio jets. Granat was the first project to discover one of these objects called GRS 1915+105 in the Milky Way, and XMM-Newton discovered the first extragalactic one of these objects in January 2017.
Kip Thorne and Stephen Hawking’s 1974 bet concerned this microquasar, which is in a high-mass X-ray binary system along with the blue supergiant HDE 226868. This body was the first black hole candidate to be discovered.
neutron stars
microquasars [do not accept or prompt on “quasars”]
Cygnus X-1 [or Cyg X-1] &lt;PS, Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;
Answer some questions about protein purification, for 10 points each:
Fusion proteins are often made to purify proteins through this type of chromatography, which involves binding the desired protein to a resin. Immunoprecipitation can be considered a specific example of it involving antibodies.
A short tag of six to ten residues of this amino acid can be added to the desired protein to make it bind to a nickel resin because the imidazole ring in this amino acid’s positively-charged side chain chelates nickel.
Larger tags such as MBP are often cleaved from the desired protein with a His-tagged protease derived from this single-stranded RNA virus, which recognizes the sequence ENLYFQS.
affinity chromatography [accept immunoaffinity chromatography]
histidine [or His; accept polyhistidine tag or hexahistidine tag or His6 tag]
tobacco etch virus [or TEV; do not accept or prompt on “tobacco mosaic virus”] &lt;JK, Biology&gt;
The “cascade” type of this process can be visualized as the introduction of a minor loop in the control block diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in controller design whose “lead-lag” type uses a block with a transfer function with two poles and two zeroes placed so that the two zeroes are between the poles in magnitude.
Frequency compensation is used in the design of this control mechanism, named for its three components. A block diagram of one of these controllers sums a multiple of the error, a sum of the previous values of the error, and the rate of change of the error to calculate the control variable.
By summing the output of a plant with the setpoint to determine the control variable, PID controllers use a “loop” named after this general process in control theory. Whether the output signal is inverted distinguishes the “negative” and “positive” types of this process.
frequency compensation
PID controller [or proportional–integral–derivative controller]
feedback [or feedback loop; or positive feedback; or negative feedback] &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
A method of measuring this quantity uses a prism to visualize two green semi-circles that are brought together until their inner edges meet. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is measured in Goldmann applanation tonometry. The most common screening test of this quantity uses non-contact tonometry, which measures it using a small puff of air.
High intraocular pressure is a symptom of this eye disease, a leading cause of blindness along with cataracts and macular degeneration. This disease can be “closed-angle” or “open-angle” and results from insufficient draining of the aqueous humor.
Another indicator of glaucoma is a value higher than 0.3 for the ratio of the size of the optic cup to the size of this structure, the anatomical “blind spot” of the eye where the optic nerve and blood enters the retina.
intraocular pressure [or IOP; prompt on fluid pressure or eye pressure]
glaucoma
optic disc [or optic nerve head; prompt on optic nerve or cranial nerve 2] &lt;AK, Biology&gt;
This mixture of reagents consists of potassium ferricyanide, potassium carbonate, an adduct of phthalazine (“THAL-uh-zeen”) and either dihydroquinine or dihydroquinidine, and potassium osmate as a source of osmium tetroxide. For 10 points each:
Name this mixture of reagents that comes in alpha and beta varieties and is used in a reaction named for Barry Sharpless.
The Sharpless asymmetric dihydroxylation produces this functional group from alkenes. Ethylene glycol is an example of this functional group, which is defined by two hydroxyl groups bonded to adjacent carbons.
Because the Sharpless dihydroxylation is an asymmetric synthesis, its product has this property of not being able to be superimposed on its mirror image.
AD-mix [or AD-mix alpha; or AD-mix beta]
vicinal diols [prompt on diols]
chirality &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
Glacial erosion often leads to development of the “deranged” variety of these patterns. For 10 points each:
Name these configurations of river channels that convey water and sediment from a given region. “Dendritic” forms of these patterns often occur in homogeneous substrates, and they exploit faults and fractures in “rectilinear” types.
Channel topology in a drainage network may be organized in these systems, which describe the degree of branching. Finger tributaries are assigned a value of 1 in the Strahler system of this kind.
Drainage networks terminate at these features at which the river empties into a wider body of water and deposits sediment. Alluvial fans may develop at these features, and a “bird’s foot” type of this feature occurs near New Orleans.
drainage network [or drainage systems; or river systems]
stream order [or waterbody order; prompt on order]
river deltas &lt;JN, Other Science (Earth)&gt;
The yield of this process is increased by running at high pressures and using an iron catalyst. For 10 points each:
Name this industrial process, which reacts three equivalents of hydrogen with nitrogen to produce ammonia. It is estimated that around two percent of the world’s energy supply is used for this process.
The reactant hydrogen is obtained from methane through this process, in which a nickel catalyst drives the conversion of methane to synthesis gas. This process is highly endothermic, so most plants run it at around one thousand degrees Celsius.
The ammonia reactor can be modeled as [read slowly] an ideal plug-flow reactor with reaction rate R, and inlet flow rate of nitrogen F. The derivative of the conversion of nitrogen with respect to volume will equal what function of R and F?
Haber process [or Haber–Bosch process]
steam reforming [prompt on reforming]
negative R over F [or –R/F] &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
This structure has recently been reclassified as an organ after researchers at the University of Limerick showed that it is continuous rather than fragmented. For 10 points each:
Name this double fold of peritoneum that attaches the intestines to the posterior abdominal wall. Superior and inferior veins named for this structure drain blood from the small and large intestines, respectively.
The root of the mesentery originates from the flexure between the jejunum and this first section of the small intestine.
This condition occurs when a part of the intestines, commonly the sigmoid colon or the cecum, twists around its mesentery, causing a bowel obstruction. This condition is often caused by intestinal malrotation and may lead to ischemia.
mesentery [accept mesenteric organ or superior mesenteric vein or inferior mesenteric vein]
duodenum [accept duodenojejunal flexure or duodenojejunal junction]
volvulus [or sigmoid volvulus; or cecal volvulus] &lt;EC, Biology&gt;
Unlike the tight-binding model, the technique named after this expression only describes edge structure. For 10 points each:
Name this expression, the product of a quantity of the electron with an operator. It is multiplied by h-bar over m in a term in the Hamiltonian and varied in a second order perturbative technique that can be used to find the effective mass.
The derivation of k-dot-p perturbation theory relies on this theorem, which states that electron wavefunctions in a lattice are equal to a complex exponential times a periodic function.
k-dot-p perturbation theory is used to model these things, which are the ranges of energies possessed by electrons in solid substances. A “gap” named for them can lie between two of these things termed the “valence” and “conduction” ones.
k-dot-p [accept any answers that mention k, the dot product, and p; accept wave vector dotted with momentum]
Bloch’s theorem
energy bands &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
These statistical models are often drawn as a trellis diagram, and the most likely path taken through these models can be found using the Viterbi algorithm. For 10 points each:
Name these memoryless statistical models that can be used to perform speech or handwriting recognition. They consist of a series of unobserved and observed states, and the associated transition and emission probabilities.
In hidden Markov models, future and past states have this property with respect to each other given the present. This means that the joint probability of hidden states A, B, C can be calculated as the probability of the A-to-B transition times the probability of the B-to-C transition, since the probability of events A and B is P-of-A times P-of-B.
This generically named algorithm recursively calculates the joint probability of a hidden state h-sub-t and observed states y-sub-one through y-sub-t. It is combined with an oppositely named algorithm in a method to calculate the probability of a hidden state given observed states.
hidden Markov models [or HMMs; prompt on Markov chains]
independence [or they’re independent]
forward algorithm [or filtering] &lt;AK, Computer Science&gt;
Answer the following questions about relative species abundance, for 10 points each:
On an island, if the number of species is plotted against the log of their abundance, the graph takes on this statistical distribution. The central limit theorem implies that the mean of samples of a random variable converges to this distribution.
The phenomenon that many species have a small population size can be explained by a theory with this name developed by Hubbell. Another theory with this name is often called the “null hypothesis” of evolution, since it contends that evolutionary changes are caused by random genetic drift rather than natural selection.
A lognormal distribution of species on an island can be obtained from a metacommunity with this relative abundance distribution. This distribution states that number of species of abundance n is equal to “alpha times x-to-the-n over n,” where alpha and x are constants specific to the community.
normal distribution [or Gaussian distribution]
neutral theory of molecular evolution [or unified neutral theory of biodiversity and biogeography; prompt on unified theory or UNTB]
Fisher’s logarithm series [prompt on Fisher series] &lt;RD, Biology&gt;
A modified version of this procedure called Lasso is used when the number of cases is less than the number of covariates. For 10 points each:
Name this regression technique that seeks to minimize a quadratic loss function. The Gauss–Markov theorem states that the ordinary version of this technique yields the best linear unbiased estimate of regression coefficients.
Estimates for regression coefficients in a least squares problem can be found using a pseudoinverse, which has the opposite dimensions of the original matrix. For a full rank matrix M and its conjugate transpose M* (“M-star”), the Moore–Penrose pseudoinverse is what expression right-multiplied by M*?
This procedure may be applied to the design matrix for a more accurate solution due to the numerical instability of the Moore–Penrose inverse. This procedure factorizes a matrix into an orthogonal matrix and an upper-triangular matrix.
method of least squares
inverse of “M* times M” [do not accept “inverse of M times M*”, since matrix multiplication is not commutative]
QR decomposition [or QR factorization] &lt;JN, Math&gt;
The critical molar volume of a real gas is equal to three times a quantity represented by this letter. For 10 points each:
Name this letter which represents the second virial coefficient describing the intermolecular interactions between gas molecules. In the Van der Waals equation, this letter represents the excluded volume of molecules.
A constant symbolized b appears in the Peng–Robinson equation, which also includes a term for the acentric factor. When the reduced temperature is equal to 0.7, the acentric factor is equal to negative-one minus the log of this quantity.
The Peng–Robinson equation can be expressed as a cubic function of this quantity, symbolized Z, which is defined to equal one for ideal gases.
b [or B]
reduced saturated vapor pressure [or P-sat-sub-r; accept saturated vapor pressure divided by critical pressure]
compressibility factor [or compression factor; or Z; prompt on gas deviation factor; do NOT accept or prompt on “compressibility” or “compression”] &lt;RD, Chemistry&gt;
These operations preserve that the derivative of the Hamiltonian with respect to the momenta equals the coordinates, and that the negative derivative of the Hamiltonian with respect to the coordinates equals the momenta. For 10 points each:
Name these operations, which can use four different types of generating function that variously depend on the old and new coordinates and momenta.
Canonical transformations are used in Hamiltonian mechanics, which are related to the formulation of classical mechanics named for this other physicist through the Legendre transform. A quantity named for this physicist is equal to kinetic energy minus potential energy.
When considering the matrix representation of Hamiltonian mechanics using a block matrix J and a Jacobian matrix M for a canonical transformation, one can derive the fact that “M times J times M-transpose equals J,” a condition known by this adjective.
canonical transformations [accept anything with canonical and implying a change of coordinates; accept contact transformations; prompt on coordinate transformations; anti-prompt on point transformations]
Joseph-Louis Lagrange [or Lagrangian mechanics]
symplectic condition &lt;AK, Physics&gt;
Answer some questions about Fraser Stoddart’s syntheses of interlocked molecules like Borromean rings and 2-catenane, for 10 points each:
Many of Stoddart’s syntheses rely on these non-covalent interactions, which can be explained through direct interactions in Houk and Wheeler’s model and are caused by quadrupole interactions in the T-shaped dimer of a molecule.
Stoddart’s synthesis of 2-catenane threads a derivative of this cation through a crown ether. This molecule has chemical formula C5H5NH-plus, and its chlorochromate salt is used for oxidation of alcohols.
The 2-catenane synthesis relies on this molecule donating electrons to pyridinium through pi–pi interactions. Pi stacking is also exhibited by the sandwich and parallel-displaced dimers of this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon with formula C6H6.
pi–pi stacking [or pi–pi interactions]
pyridinium [do not accept or prompt on “pyridine”]
benzene &lt;AK, Chemistry&gt;
After rejecting a paper outlining this hypothesis, the <em>Journal of Geophysical Research</em> wrote to one of its developers that it “seems most appropriate over martinis” than the journal. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis which claims that the presence of magnetite in the Earth’s crust causes magnetic striping due to geomagnetic reversals.
The Vine–Matthews–Morley hypothesis provides evidence for this process, in which new oceanic crust is extruded from mid-ocean ridges.
During the Permian period, this fern existed throughout the continent of Gondwana. “Tongue shaped” fossils of this fern on Australia, Antarctica, South America, South Africa, and India provide evidence for continental drift.
Vine–Matthews–Morley hypothesis [accept names in any order]
seafloor spreading [prompt on continental drift or plate tectonics]
Glossopteris &lt;RD, Other Science (Earth)&gt;
The dihydrochloride of this compound is sold under the trade name Kuvan and is used to treat its namesake deficiency disease. For 10 points each:
Name this compound that is synthesized from GTP by GTPCH, PTPS, and sepiapterin reductase. Deficiency of this compound can also be treated with L-DOPA, since it serves as a cofactor for the conversion of L-tyrosine to L-DOPA.
THB is also a cofactor for this enzyme which catalyzes the production of citrulline and a namesake molecule from L-arginine. Unlike its neuronal and endothelial types, the inducible isoform of this enzyme is not regulated by calcium-calmodulin interactions.
THB also serves as a cofactor in the metabolism of phenylalanine, which is disrupted in patients with this disease. Patients with this disease have musty smelling urine.
tetrahydrobiopterin [or THB; or BH4; or H4B; accept sapropterin]
nitric oxide synthase [or NO synthase; or NOS; or nNOS; or iNOS; or eNOS; or bNOS]
phenylketonuria [or PKU] &lt;RD, Biology&gt;
Gibbs free energy can be calculated by performing this operation on Helmholtz free energy. For 10 points each:
Name this operation that defines a new function, “g of theta-comma-y,” from an old function, “f of x-comma-y,” by setting g equal to “df-dx times dg-d-theta minus f.”
Enthalpy is the Legendre transform of this other state function. The first law of thermodynamics states that the change in this quantity for a system is equal to heat added minus work done.
By noting the equality of mixed partial derivatives, one can derive a Maxwell relation from internal energy in which [read slowly] the partial of temperature with respect to volume, with this quantity held constant, is equal to the negative partial of pressure with respect to entropy, with this other quantity held constant. Please give your answer in order.
Legendre (“la-ZHAHN-druh”) transformation
internal energy [or U]
entropy and volume [or S and V; or sigma and V; do NOT accept in the other order] &lt;RD, Physics&gt;
For the dihedral group D8 of the symmetries of a square acting on a square’s vertices, this subgroup for a given vertex is defined as reflections about a line of symmetry through a given vertex. For 10 points each:
Name this subgroup. For a group G acting on a set S and an element x in S, this subgroup is defined by every element little-g in G such that little-g acting on x equals x. Under those conditions, the order of G is equal to the order of the orbit of x, times the order of this subgroup of G with respect to x.
For a group G acting on itself, the stabilizer of any element in G is just this element of the group, because the action of this element on another element x gives back x. In linear algebra, this term denotes a matrix with ones down the diagonal and zeros everywhere else.
Unlike stabilizers, these objects for a group G are the group action applied to an element of G and all the elements of a subgroup H. Two kinds of these objects are equivalent for a normal subgroup H, and their order defines the index of a subgroup.
stabilizer
identity
cosets [accept left cosets or right cosets] &lt;AK, Math&gt;
Name some extremely hazardous laboratory chemicals. For 10 points each:
This very strong base is useful for a variety of deprotonation reaction, but has the unfortunate property of spontaneously combusting when exposed to air. This compound
Tert-butyllithium can be handled safely using this air-free technique named for the thin tubes used to pierce the rubber septum of a holding container.
Unfortunately some compounds are just extremely toxic and permeating, such as this dimethyl compound of this element, formerly used as a methylating agent, now supplanted by Grignard reagents. Karen Wetterhahn died after accidentally spilling that substance with this element on her gloved hand.
tert-butyllithium [or tertiary butyllithium]
cannula transfer [or cannulation]
mercury
This process happens after the Cori cycle acts on lactic acid. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which occurs primarily in the liver and kidneys and results in production of monosaccharides. Unlike a related process, this process has an oxaloacetate intermediate.
Blood glucose levels can also be increased by the breakdown of this starch-like polysaccharide by debranching enzymes and a namesake phosphorylase.
In this disorder, which results in myopathy and cardiorespiratory problems, the lysosome cannot process glycogen. This autosomal recessive disorder is caused by mutations in the acid alpha-glucosidase gene.
gluconeogenesis
glycogen
Pompe’s disease [or glycogen storage disease type 2; or GSD 2; or alpha-1,4-glucosidase deficiency; or acid maltase deficiency disease; or AMD; or GAA deficiency] &lt;Ed. JS&gt;
The “secondary,” or “nonclustering,” type of these data structures are built on a search key that does <em>not</em> define the sequential order of the file, unlike the “primary” or “clustering” type. For 10 points each:
Name these data structures, which are used to speed up lookups in a database by storing the values of a search key and a pointer to records with the same search key.
A common way to implement an index makes use of the B+ (“B plus”) type of these data structures. The “binary search” type of these data structures allows you to search, insert, and delete sorted data in log n time.
B+ trees always have this property, like AVL trees and red-black trees, which fall under a class of trees that automatically attempt to keep their heights as low as possible at all times.
index [or indices]
trees [or B+ trees; or binary search trees]
height-balanced [accept self-balancing]
The standard for this type of reaction is set by hydrogen and platinum. For 10 points each:
Name this type of half reaction, in which one species gains an electron, unlike oxidation.
These diagrams named for an American chemist summarize standard electrode potentials for a given element, with the most highly oxidized compound on the left. Arrows representing possible reductions connect the compounds on these diagrams.
A Latimer diagram can be used to construct a diagram of this name, which shows the free energy for different oxidation states of a species. In organic chemistry, a “circle” with this name shows bonding and antibonding molecular orbitals, and can be used to determine whether or not a molecule is aromatic.
reduction
Latimer diagram
Frost diagram [or Frost circle]
This motif is a 60-residue helix-turn-helix found on the C-terminus of a POU domain. For 10 points each:
Name this protein motif that is highly conserved in Hox genes, such as the Antennapedia and Bithorax transcription factors in Drosophila.
Pax genes, which also contain homeodomains, regulate the development of these body parts in Drosophila. Thomas Hunt Morgan discovered that the color of this body part—usually either white or red—is sex-linked in flies.
In vertebrate eye patterning, Hox gene expression is regulated by this small molecule instead of proteins. This vitamin derivative promotes neural differentiation.
homeobox domain [or homeodomain]
compound eyes [or ommatidia]
retinoic acid [or RA]
The bolometric form of this quantity is used to estimate it across all wavelengths, rather than just in the visible spectrum. For 10 points each:
Name this dimensionless quantity, that corresponds to the luminosity of distant objects in astronomy. It can be measured as an apparent or absolute value.
The absolute magnitude can be calculated from the apparent magnitude by integrating over the “phase” type of this quantity, which is defined relative to the observer, the body, and the Sun. When this quantity is zero, an opposition spike results.
This quantity, symbolized mu, is defined to be the difference between the apparent and absolute magnitudes. When this quantity is zero, two objects are exactly ten parsecs apart.
magnitude [or apparent magnitude; or absolute magnitude]
phase angle
distance modulus [prompt on distance]
A Balinese cup is used to represent these things in a common analogy of their key attribute: when they undergo a 360 degree rotation, their sign changes because the SU(2) group is not simply connected. For 10 points each:
Name these mathematical entities, vectors modified to account for their namesake property.
Spinors were introduced by this British physicist to solve the equation which bears his name, which is a fully relativistic version of the Schrödinger equation. He also names a function which is infinite at the origin and zero elsewhere.
Conveniently, the Dirac spinors are easily written in terms of the basis states of this quantity’s operator, such that massless fermions have either a value of 1 or -1 for this value. If a fermion is massless, this quantity is a scaled version of the chirality.
spinors
Paul Dirac
helicity
In high-temperature NMR of coordination complexes with this ligand, “ring whizzing” causes the carbons and hydrogens to coalesce into a single signal. For 10 points each:
Name this aromatic, anionic ligand. Two of these ligands coordinate the iron atom in ferrocene.
Cyclopentadienyl anion is aromatic because it has this many pi electrons in the ring, the minimum number for a stable aromatic compound. Benzene has this many pi electrons, and this many carbon atoms.
Metallocenes with cyclopentadienyl are found in these catalysts which accelerate the polymerization of alkenes, though the most popular catalysts of this type are based on titanium.
cyclopentadienyl ligand [or cyclopentadiene anion; or cp ligand]
six
Ziegler-Natta catalysts
By the Verhulst equation, the time derivative of P goes to zero as P approaches this number, which is usually denoted K. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is the maximum value of many logistic functions used in ecology.
Populations that are near carrying capacity usually exhibit reproductive strategies with fewer offspring, called K-selection. This type of selection, used by populations with many offspring, contrasts with K-selection.
This Canadian ecologist developed the notion that a carrying capacity may vary over time, known as “adaptive capacity,” into the book Resilience and Stability of Ecological Systems. With Lance Gunderson, he wrote the book Panarchy.
carrying capacity
r-selection
C. S. Holling [or Crawford Stanley Holling]
An inductively coupled plasma can be used in this technique. For 10 points each:
Name this analysis technique, which can be used to determine the amount of a particular element in a sample.
Perhaps the most basic type of emission spectroscopy is this classic laboratory procedure, where the observed colour of a sample placed in a Bunsen burner is used to identify the elements in a compound.
This other gas is used to “cut” off the argon-based plasma in many atomic emission spectroscopy setups. This gas is the most abundant one in earth’s atmosphere.
atomic emission spectroscopy [or optical emission spectroscopy]
flame test
nitrogen gas [or N2]
This quantity precesses about an external field in Larmor precession. For 10 points each:
Name this vector quantity, which relates the torque on a current loop to the strength of the field that creates that torque. It is the first adiabatic invariant of a gyrating particle in plasma physics.
This dimensionless quantity characterizes the ratio of the electron’s spin to its magnetic moment. A positive anomalous magnetic moment requires this value to be greater than the value of 2 predicted by the Dirac equation.
For a rotation of a loop of charge from zero to 180 degrees, this quantity will be equal to 2 times the magnetic moment times the B-field. This quantity, measured in Joules, equals the change in total energy of a system.
magnetic dipole moment
Landé g-factor
work
Simple examples of these devices can experience chaotic behavior if an ambiguous state is reached, with more complicated examples avoiding those states entirely. For 10 points each:
Name these circuit elements, that can be designated SR or D. They can store binary information by toggling back and forth.
Flip-flops can be linked to this signal, allowing input to only be accepted at the positive leading edge of this signal’s “ticks.” This signal switches up and down at a fixed frequency meant to synchronize a circuit, so that transitions occur at the same time.
A sequence of D flip-flops chained together with a common clock implements this device, where each bit moves down one flip-flop each clock cycle. They can be used to convert between serial and parallel signals.
flip-flop [or latch]
clock signal
shift register
This task can be accomplished through motifs such as the basic leucine zipper domain. For 10 points each:
Name this task, that usually involves contact with the major or minor grooves. The B recognition element is a common site of this task.
DNA binding domains are found in factors that aid in this process, where RNA polymerases synthesize messenger RNA from a DNA template. The TATA box commonly signals the starting point of this process.
This family of transcription factors, which bind to the minor groove of the DNA double helix, share a DNA-binding domain sequence with, and are named after, the testes determining factor. The second member of this family is a Yamanaka factor.
DNA binding [accept deoxyribonucleic acid binding; accept a descriptive answer]
transcription
SOX [or sex-determining region Y box] &lt;JS&gt;
A graph has this property if and only if it has an ear decomposition. For 10 points each:
Name this property that describes a directed graph with a path in both directions between any two vertices. Kosaraju and Tarjan name linear time algorithms to partition a directed graph into components with this property.
Kosaraju’s and Tarjan’s algorithms both use this traversal algorithm, which fully explores each vertex before backtracking. It can be implemented recursively or iteratively using a stack, and it is often contrasted with breadth-first search.
Kosaraju’s algorithm runs DFS twice, once on the original graph G and once on this graph of G. The algorithm relies on the fact that this graph has the same strongly connected components of G, but its source nodes correspond to G’s sink nodes.
strongly connected [or diconnected]
depth-first search [or DFS]
transpose graph [or converse graph; or reverse graph; accept descriptive answers like every edge is reversed]
Subject to this condition, all solutions to Maxwell’s equations satisfy the wave equation given in terms of the potentials, though this condition still leaves a scalar degree of freedom. For 10 points each:
Name this partial gauge condition, which sets the divergence of the [emphasize] four-potential equal to zero.
The Lorenz gauge is Lorentz invariant, which means that solutions in one inertial reference frame hold in all inertial reference frames, making it useful in this physical theory that predicts time dilation and length contraction.
The electric and magnetic potentials of a point charge in arbitrary motion can be calculated using these deceptively simple expressions, which are given in terms of the retarded position.
Lorenz gauge [or Lorentz gauge]
special relativity
Lienard-Wiechert potentials
These neutral compounds exist in equilibrium with their dimers in a Wanzlick equilibrium. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds, whose central divalent atom of these species is in the singlet state in the type named for Fischer. The central atom of these compounds contains only 6 valence electrons.
This carbene can be formed from the photolytic cleavage of diazomethane. This simplest carbene is named like an alkene, even though its properties are clearly different.
The carbon in this kind of carbene is in the triplet state. Examples of this kind of carbene include Tebbe’s reagent after activation by a Lewis base.
carbenes
methylene [or CH2]
Schrock carbene
Cadmium selenide is commonly used to create these man-made nanoscale objects, whose semiconductor properties are due to size-confinement. For 10 points each:
Name these nanomaterials, consisting of a crystal smaller than the exciton Bohr radius.
Applying light to a quantum dot modifies its size-confinement, leading to a change in the energy of this process. This phenomenon, contrasted with phosphorescence, emits of a photon of a longer wavelength than that of the incident photon.
Quantum dots may be created through the molecular beam variant of this process, in which thin crystalline sheets are deposited onto a crystalline substrate. Specifically, quantum dots can be formed through the Stranski-Krastanov type of growth in this process.
quantum dots
fluorescence
epitaxy
The Dupuit-Forchheimer assumption can be used to simplify this law. For 10 points each:
Name this law, which models the flow of a fluid through a porous medium.
Darcy’s law is primarily used to model the flow of this substance through soil. Collections of this substance are called aquifers.
Aquifer under positive pressure is called this, referring to a region of France where they are common. These can result when a depression brings the ground level below the saturation level.
Darcy’s law
groundwater
Artesian aquifer
This system, consisting of X, Y, and Z structural subunits and one repressor gene, was discovered to be cis-regulating by Jacob and Monod. For 10 points each:
IPTG is an artificial inducer of what commonly studied set of bacterial genes, which are responsible for the breakdown of a certain sugar?
Lac Operon activity can be measured using this compound, because it breaks down into a blue product in the presence of beta-galactosidase, a product of an active Lac operon.
This molecule serves as a positive regulator of the Lac operon, as it binds the catabolite activator protein in low glucose environments to increase transcription of the lac operon genes. This molecules activates protein kinase A.
Lactose Operon
X-gal [or BCIG for 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-galactopyranoside]
cyclic AMP or [cAMP or cyclic adenosine monophosphate]
Seed nucleation is a step in this technique, whose undesired product is called mother liquor. For 10 point each:
Name this common laboratory technique, in which a compound is purified by dissolving it in a hot solvent that is then cooled to create a supersaturated solution.
Recrystallization is commonly followed by this procedure to separate mother liquor from the crystalline product. In this procedure, a Büchner funnel and aspirator are connected to a flask to create a pressure gradient between the flask and its surroundings.
The percent yield of recrystallization can be determined by the depression of this colligative property in the product. Adding salt to ice can reduce this numerical value for ice.
recrystallization [prompt on crystallization]
vacuum filtration [prompt on filtration]
melting point [accept freezing point]
Answer the following about the havoc a virtual particle popping into existence for less than the Planck time can wreak. For 10 points each:
It’s less likely that a virtual particle appears between two metal plates than outside of them, due to the limited number of states between them; due to this, the particles cause this attractive force between the two plates, named for a Dutch physicist.
Physicists often use this term to describe virtual particles. This term refers to virtual particles not respecting the relativistic energy-momentum relationship, and so they don’t lie on the ellipse defined by that equation.
A virtual particles might be promoted to a real particle if it appears near a black hole event horizon and contributes to this radiation, which causes a black hole to lose mass. This radiation is named for a British physicist and popularizer of science.
Casimir effect
off mass shell [do NOT accept “on shell”]
Hawking radiation
A variant of these objects which does not possess an identity element is sometimes spelt without the “i” to indicate this. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic structures that are closed under their addition and multiplication operations, but might not necessarily have inverses under multiplication.
The central theorem of algebraic geometry, the Nullstellensatz, relates affine varieties to the ideals of rings of these objects. If all of these over some field have solutions in that field, then that field is algebraically closed.
The Nullstellensatz was first proven by this mathematician. This mathematician also names a formal logic system with only a single inference rule, in contrast to the sequent calculus and natural deduction systems.
ring
polynomials
David Hilbert
You’ll get over it, it’s just a phase diagram. Answer some questions about two component systems. For 10 points each:
An important point on a phase diagram is this point, where the binary system melts as a whole instead of forming distinct phases. This point is where the liquidus and solidus meet.
To determine the mole fraction of each part of the binary system in each phase, one should use this equation, named in analogy to the balance achieved by the weights on a simple machine.
In the steel phase diagram, at high temperatures and low carbon concentrations, steel forms this phase. This phase is also known as gamma-phase iron.
eutectic point
lever rule
austenite
This class of organisms radiated after the Cretaceous-Triassic extinction. For 10 points each:
Name this class of organisms that include monotremes, marsupials, and placentals. They are named for certain glands that can produce milk.
Description acceptable. A significant evolutionary event for mammals is when parts of their jaw were repurposed as these items that aid in hearing. The evolution of these things is supported as they arise from the same pharyngeal arch as the mandible and maxilla.
To allow for a longer gestation time and thus a larger baby, placental mammals have lost these bony structures near the pelvis to make childbirth an easier time. These structures help support the marsupial pouch.
mammals or mammalia
middle ear bones [or all three of (in any order) hammer, anvil, stirrup or incus, malleus, stapes]
epipubic bones
Connections under this protocol begin with a three-way handshake, and this protocol retransmits dropped packets unlike an alternative protocol. For 10 points each:
Name this transport layer protocol, paired with IP when referring to the whole Internet protocol suite, which provides reliable data transfer.
Bytes 16 and 17 of a TCP header are used for one of these values used for basic error correction. Hashes generated from by MD5 or SHA1 are frequently used as these values for files downloaded over potentially insecure channels.
When establishing a TCP connection, the client sends a SYN segment to the server, to which the server responds with another SYN segment to synchronize the sequence number, as well as this segment to confirm that the request was received.
TCP/IP [or Transmission Control Protocol]
checksum
ACK segment
These entities form above their namesake critical concentration. For 10 points each:
Name these entities with hydrophilic “heads” facing the solvent, while the hydrophobic “tails” remain on the inside.
At the critical micelle concentration, several parameters abruptly cease changing as additional surfactant molecules preferentially form micelles, especially this quantity, since it is more favourable for surfactant molecules to be completely within the solvent.
Micelles can only form above this temperature, since the solubility of the surfactant is too low below this temperature. It is named for a German chemist.
micelles
surface tension
Krafft temperature
You put on a VR headset, taking you inside the nucleus of a human cell letting you walk along DNA sequences. For 10 points each:
The ends of chromosomes consist of these repetitive units which decrease in number each time DNA is replicated. The shortening of these regions make cells reach their hayflick limit.
When visiting chromosome 6, you notice that regions the short arm don’t have a consensus sequence. That’s because parts of it codes for this highly variable cell surface protein complex that distinguishes self from nonself.
Upset at the fact that only about 1% of the human genome is coding, you decide to head to this most gene-dense chromosome. This chromosome also has the largest human cluster of KRAB-ZFP genes.
telomeres
MHC [or HLA, or major histocompatibility complex, or human leukocyte antigen]
chromosome 19
The Einstein-Smoluchowski relation is a formula for the coefficient which characterizes this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process where entities move from regions of high concentration to regions of low concentration.
The Einstein-Smoluchowski relation is an example of a consequence of this theorem, which relates a microscopic and macroscopic process. The expressions for Johnson-Nyquist noise also follow from this theorem.
Brownian motion is an example of a Wiener process, which is the continuous limit of this kind of stochastic process. In one or two dimensions one of these processes almost surely returns to the origin, while in three dimensions and higher this is not the case.
diffusion
fluctuation-dissipation theorem [do NOT accept or prompt on “fluctuation theorem”]
random walk
For 10 points each, answer the following about targeting certain DNA sequences to study.
To study sequences where DNA interact with specific proteins, you can cut the DNA and then target the protein with one of these molecules. These molecules are also produced by immune cells to target foreign proteins.
The Tn5 enzyme from one of these genetic entities is used to cut DNA sequences for ATAC-Seq [attack-seq] to isolate regions of open chromatin. An enzyme from the Sleeping Beauty one of these genetic entities is used in inserting sequences into genomes.
Chromatin conformation capture techniques help divide chromosomes into these regions. These regions contain DNA that interact within themselves but not with other regions. The boundaries between these regions are often bound by CTCF.
antibody
transposase
TADs [or topologically associated domains, or topological domains, or TAD domains]
In the old quantum theory, adiabatic invariants are the quantities subject to this procedure. For 10 points each:
Name this procedure. Its “first” type treats the environment as classical, while its “second” type applies to all fields and adequately describes many-body problems.
Dirac’s procedure for quantization replaces the Poisson bracket with this operation. If this function of two operators is zero, then they are independently observable.
The commutator of these two operators is unusually simple, in that it is equal to one. These operators simplify the solution of the quantum harmonic oscillator by representing increases and decreases in the energy state.
quantization
commutator
ladder operators [or raising and lowering operators, both required; or creation and annihilation operators, both required]
Name some extremely hazardous laboratory chemicals. For 10 points each:
This very strong base is useful for a variety of deprotonation reaction, but has the unfortunate property of spontaneously combusting when exposed to air. This compound
Tert-butyllithium can be handled safely using this air-free technique named for the thin tubes used to pierce the rubber septum of a holding container.
Unfortunately some compounds are just extremely toxic and permeating, such as this dimethyl compound of this element, formerly used as a methylating agent, now supplanted by Grignard reagents. Karen Wetterhahn died after accidentally spilling that substance with this element on her gloved hand.
tert-butyllithium [or tertiary butyllithium]
cannula transfer [or cannulation]
mercury
Primary and secondary imbalances are causes of vibrations in these devices. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices which commonly power automobiles. They may be fueled by gasoline or diesel fuel.
Efficiency and power of a piston engine can be improved using one of these devices, which use exhaust gas to drive a compressor. Unfortunately, these devices can cause a namesake type of “lag” between throttle application and change in power output.
Secondary imbalance in piston engines is caused by mass not being symmetrically distributed between top and bottom [this position] of a piston’s cycle. Ignition typically begins slightly before top [this position].
piston engine [or reciprocating engine; prompt on internal combustion engine with “What does the combustion move?”]
turbocharger
dead center
For 10 points each, answer the following about targeting certain DNA sequences to study.
To study sequences where DNA interact with specific proteins, you can cut the DNA and then target the protein with one of these molecules. These molecules are also produced by immune cells to target foreign proteins.
The Tn5 enzyme from one of these genetic entities is used to cut DNA sequences for ATAC-Seq [attack-seq] to isolate regions of open chromatin. An enzyme from the Sleeping Beauty one of these genetic entities is used in inserting sequences into genomes.
Chromatin conformation capture techniques help divide chromosomes into these regions. These regions contain DNA that interact within themselves but not with other regions. The boundaries between these regions are often bound by CTCF.
antibody
transposase
TADs [or topologically associated domains, or topological domains, or TAD domains]
In the old quantum theory, adiabatic invariants are the quantities subject to this procedure. For 10 points each:
Name this procedure. Its “first” type treats the environment as classical, while its “second” type applies to all fields and adequately describes many-body problems.
Dirac’s procedure for quantization replaces the Poisson bracket with this operation. If this function of two operators is zero, then they are independently observable.
The commutator of these two operators is unusually simple, in that it is equal to one. These operators simplify the solution of the quantum harmonic oscillator by representing increases and decreases in the energy state.
quantization
commutator
ladder operators [or raising and lowering operators, both required; or creation and annihilation operators, both required]
The non-integrability of this problem was first demonstrated by Poincaré, though he initially mistakenly thought he had proven the opposite. For 10 points each:
Name this physics problem, which centers around determining the orbits of a certain number of celestial objects. When the mass of one object is small, it can remain stationary at Lagrange points.
Unlike the three-body problem, the two-body central potential problem is trivially solvable for all potentials. By Bertrand’s theorem, however, only the gravitational potential and this other potential have the property that all bound orbits are closed.
For a system with n degrees of freedom, integrability is equivalent to the system having at least this many independent conserved quantities. Your answer should be in terms of n.
gravitational three-body problem [prompt on n-body problem]
harmonic oscillator potential [or spring potential; or r2 potential]
n
Like other waveguides, these devices may be either singlemode or multimode. For 10 points each:
Name these waveguides, which confine light through total internal reflection.
Multimode optical fibres are cheaper and easier to use, but suffer from attenuation due to this effect, where different modes propagate at different speeds, distorting the signal.
In conventional metallic closed waveguides, this mode cannot propagate due to the boundary conditions on the waveguide. This is the mode of propagation in free space.
fibre optics [or optical fibres]
modal dispersion
TEM mode
One example of these events occurred when physicists stopped using Newtonian Mechanics in favour of the theories of Einstein and of quantum mechanics. For 10 points each:
Name these events, described in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.
This American author was partially inspired by Michael Polanyi to write The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.
In partial contrast with Kuhn’s paradigm shifts, Popper’s theory of falsification uses logic based on this two-word Latin phrase, that is often contrasted with modus ponens. This method allows Popper to argue only that a prediction is false--not that a theory is true.
paradigm shifts
Thomas Kuhn
modus tollendo tollens [prompt on denying the consequent and other close translations] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
The QRS complex indicates the beginning of the ventricular contraction associated with this phase. For 10 points each:
Name this phase where the heart pushes blood to the rest of the body, contrasted with diastole.
This collection of muscle cells connects the AV node to the Purkinje fibres. It is named for a Swiss physician.
The cardiac cycle can be visualized using this diagram, which plots key quantities like blood pressure, volume, and EKG read-out against time to show how these quantities correlate over the cycle.
systole
bundle of His
Wiggers diagram
Appropriately, the name of this technique simply means “billboard” in Japanese. For 10 points each:
Name this technique, which uses namesake cards to control the flow of inventory in a manufacturing system. This technique has also been adopted for project management.
Kanban and other lean manufacturing techniques were developed at this company, the world’s largest automobile manufacturer. This company’s products include the Camry.
This other popular technique for manufacturing process improvement focuses on statistical analysis. It aims to identify factors which are critical to quality in order to achieve the namesake level of passing products.
kanban
Toyota
Six Sigma
These reactions typically require a strong base, such as sodium ethoxide, and occur on primary and secondary carbons. For 10 points each;
Name this class of reactions, in which an alkene is formed in one step through a bimolecular mechanism.
E2 reactions require the carbon-leaving group bond and hydrogen-carbon bond have this orientation-relative configuration. The dihedral angle in this configuration is 180 degrees.
This very strong leaving group is also called p-toluenesulfonate. This compound is formed by the substitution of a chloride with an alcohol on its central sulfur atom.
E2 [or elimination 2; prompt on elimination]
antiperiplanar
tosylate [or CH3C6H4SO3-; prompt on TsO-]
DAPI [da-pee] is a fluorescent molecule typically used to perform this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which is often performed using a mixture of hematoxylin and eosin. When prepping for a certain analytical technique, it is often performed alongside fixation.
When trying to image samples that aren't or cannot be stained, you can enhance the contrast using this form of microscopy, which uses an optical setup which excludes the unscattered beam from the final image.
Ethidium bromide is a common stain used in this technique, which involves embedding a macromolecule, like DNA or proteins, in agarose and applying a voltage to separate them based on size or charge.
staining [prompt on answers indicating that you are using a chemical to improve the contrast in some form of microscopy]
dark field microscopy
gel electrophoresis [prompt on electrophoresis accept types, such as polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis which is abbreviated PAGE]
The IEC standard diagrams for depicting these systems use rectangles instead of the familiar jagged lines for a common component. For 10 points each:
Name these connected systems, which may include devices such as batteries and inductors.
This French telegrapher’s namesake theorem states that a circuit consisting of only resistances and current sources can be replaced by an equivalent circuit with an equivalent voltage source in series with an equivalent resistance. That theorem is dual to Norton’s theorem.
Thévenin’s theorem only applies to resistive DC circuits described by this adjective, meaning that output is proportional to the input. Components described by this adjective include capacitors and resistors, but not diodes and transistors.
electrical circuit [or electrical network]
Léon Charles Thévenin
linear
This theory was initially presented in 1972 as an alternative to phyletic gradualism. For 10 points each:
Name this theory, which supposes that speciation occurs rapidly between very long periods of stasis, naturally explaining why there are so many gaps in the fossil record.
The idea that evolution occurs via punctuated equilibrium was developed by Niles Eldredge and this paleontologist and biologist, who wrote pop science books on evolution such as The Panda's Thumb.
Gould coined this term to describe a process where a feature evolves for one purpose, but is later used for another. One example is feathers, which seem to have evolved for thermoregulation but were co-opted by later organisms to be used as an airfoil.
punctuated equilibrium
Stephen Jay Gould
exaptation
This quantity equals the covariance between two variables, divided by the product of the standard deviations in each of the two variables. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity from statistics, represented by a coefficient which ranges from -1 to 1, called Pearson's R, which measures how two variables are related.
This scientist names a rank measure of correlation, denoted rho, which quantitatively assesses whether or not the variables increase or decrease together; for example, the graphs of y equals x cubed and y equals e to the x are perfectly correlated under his measure.
While Pearson's r is a measure of linearity, Spearman's rho is a measure of this property. A function with this property will be strictly non-increasing or strictly non-decreasing as the input increases, for any value of the input.
correlation
Charles Spearman
monotonicity [or monotone function]
The Kochen-Specker theorem is a strengthening of this theorem. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem from quantum mechanics that states that certain inequalities must be obeyed by systems with local hidden variable. Since we observe violations of these inequalities, local hidden variable theories are impossible.
Since Bell’s theorem only considers local hidden variable theories, it leaves the door open to this global hidden variable theory, which posits that a “pilot-wave” carries information about particles to distant locations.
Debates between Niels Bohr and this man influenced the study of hidden variable theories. This physicist developed a noted paradox with Podolsky and Rosen that discussed what he called “spooky action at a distance.”
Bell’s theorem
de Broglie-Bohm mechanics [accept either name]
Albert Einstein
In this procedure, the charged jet begins to whip when the time for excess charge to redistribute itself along the full length of the jet becomes too large. For 10 points each:
Name this process, similar to electrospray ionization, that is used to produce fine fibres.
Electrospinning uses solutions of these macromolecules that are made up of many repeated subunits. Common examples include PVC and PETE.
G.I. Taylor showed that the critical voltage for cone formation in electrospinning is a function of air-gap distance, tube length, tube radius, and this quantity that can be measured using the Du Noüy ring method.
electrospinning
polymers
surface tension
Answer the following about the metabolism of paracetamol, or Tylenol, for 10 points each:
The smooth ER in cells of this organ is the major site of drug metabolism in the body, which is why overdoses of paracetamol and also ethanol are particularly harmful for this organ.
This monooxygenase family of enzymes is involved in about three-quarters of all phase 1 drug metabolism pathways. However, this family of enzymes, whose name comes from their absorbance peak, only starts to act on paracetamol after other metabolism pathways become saturated.
Paracetamol poisoning results after the reactive cytochrome p450 metabolite NAPQI overcomes the liver’s supply of this antioxidant and begins to damage cells. This tri-peptide’s reduced form is a homodimer connected by a disulfide bond between the two central cysteine moieties.
liver
cytochrome p450 [or CYP, prompt on just “cytochromes”, do not accept other types of cytochromes]
glutathione [or GSH]
The “weak” form of this conjecture was proven for sufficiently large numbers by Vinogradov, and was recently proven for all numbers by Helfgott. For 10 points each:
Name this conjecture of number theory that states every even integer greater than two is the sum of two prime numbers.
The weak Goldbach conjecture was proven through a combination of numerical verification and use of the circle method named for Littlewood and this mathematician. This mathematician and Littlewood also name two incompatible conjectures.
The second Hardy-Littlewood conjecture states that the prime counting function obeys this shapely inequality, which along with non-negativity and symmetry defines a metric.
Goldbach’s strong conjecture
Godfrey Harold Hardy
triangle inequality [or subadditivity, even though that’s not shapely]
A chemical containing this polyatomic ion was once used to fix photography negatives. For 10 points each:
Name this polyatomic ion symbolized “S 2 O 3” which is often used in silver ore smelting.  A compound of it with sodium is used in a reaction involving a certain solution turning dark blue.
That aforementioned reaction is this common educational reaction, whose name references a timepiece, where a solution of the namesake halogen changes colour in the presence of starch.
Thiosulphate and a starch indicator are used in the last step of this test of dissolved oxygen content. In the first step of this test, dissolved oxygen oxidizes manganese ions.
thiosulphate
iodine clock reaction
Winkler test
This phenomenon occurs at energy scales where Bjorken scaling causes the structure functions to be independent of the momentum change. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon originally observed at SLAC, the first direct evidence for the existence of quarks.
This meson which consists of a charm quark and antiquark is unusual due to both its long lifetime and its name, an artifact of its near simultaneous discovery at SLAC and MIT.
Quarks are never observed individually due to the “confinement” of this quantity, which gives quantum chromodynamics its name. Attempting to separate quarks adds enough energy to create a new set of particles with net zero value for this quantity.
deep inelastic scattering
j/psi meson
colour charge
This amino acid is regenerated by an enzyme that also regenerates tetrahydrofolic acid. For 10 points each.
Name this amino acid that forms a cycle with homocysteine and their adenylated versions. The codon A-U-G codes for this amino acid.
In humans, methionine is almost always the first amino acid incorporated by a t-RNA in this process that occurs in the ribosome.
Certain bacterial and organellar genomes use a methionine with this functional group added to the nitrogen on the amino acid backbone as the start codon. In purine synthesis, one of these functional groups is added to AICAR.
methionine
translation
formyl &lt;Ed. JS&gt;
Most laboratories use a Liebig condenser for this technique. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that separates components of a liquid, typically by boiling and cooling down the steam. The fractional type of this technique repeatedly condenses and evaporates the mixture at different plates in a namesake column.
Distillation normally can’t separate azeotropes, since the vapour contains the same proportions as the liquid. A type of distillation named for a “swing” in this quantity can, however, since the proportions in an azeotrope depend on this quantity due to Raoult’s law.
In cases where the liquid is air-sensitive, this type of setup can be used. This setup replaces the vacuum created with an inert noble gas.
distillation [accept word forms]
pressure
Perkin’s triangle
Tomasulo developed a dynamic scheduling algorithm to allow for out-of-order execution while using the technique. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that improves the throughput of a CPU by having multiple instructions execute concurrently, each using a different part of the CPU. Branch prediction failures can cause so-called bubbles to form in its namesake structure, in analogy to fluid flow.
This is the name for the problems that occur while pipelining, and include the data, structural, and control types. One example would be if an instruction preemptively reads a register before an instruction ahead of it has written to it.
Pipelining doesn’t improve time per instruction, which depends on the clock rate, which has stalled despite this law stating that the density of transistors on a chip doubles every eighteen months.
instruction pipelining
hazards
Moore’s law
The OX513A strain of <em>Aedes aegypti</em> developed by this company expresses the dominant-lethal transactivator protein tTav, which disrupts transcriptional machinery in offspring. For 10 points each:
Name this British biotech company which plans to control insect populations by genetically modifying them with “self-limiting” genes, creating “Friendly” mosquitoes.
Oxitec’s transgene tTav binds to and is driven by a heptameric operator for this antibiotic class, whose mechanism of action is through translation inhibition. These four-ringed drugs repress tTav under a namesake "off" system.
A similar method of controlling mosquito populations is to release a large number of males with this property. Spaying and neutering are methods of inducing this property in pets.
Oxitec
tetracycline
sterile [or infertile; accept word forms; accept descriptive answers] &lt;Ed. JS&gt;
This man names the boundary layer that occurs in laminar flow over an oscillating plate. For 10 points each:
Name this man who also derived an equation for the drag on a sphere moving through a viscous fluid with low Reynolds number.
The Navier-Stokes equations can be derived from this general equation using the Newtonian constitutive relation. One form of it sets the material derivative of the flow velocity equal to the divergence of the stress tensor plus the body forces.
The Cauchy momentum equation is a continuum equation for momentum, meaning that it is a local type of one of these laws stating that certain quantities are constant as a system evolves. Examples of these laws are the ones for mass and momentum.
George Stokes
Cauchy momentum equation
conservation law
The first one of these was invented in 1650 by German scientist Otto von Guericke, the conductor of the Magdeburg hemispheres experiment. For 10 points each:
Name these devices, whose momentum transfer varieties include ones named diffusion and turbomolecular. These devices remove gas molecules from a fixed volume to decrease pressure to nearly zero torr.
Cryopumps, or cryogenic pumps, are vacuum pumps that feature low temperature surfaces that can be covered by zeolites or this substance. This molecular sieve can be made from decomposing sources like peat, wood, and coal at high temperatures and features pores that help raise the surface area for reactions.
The large surface area of activated charcoal makes it ideal for adsorption, which is modeled by this man’s isotherm, which assumes adsorbates are an ideal gas.
vacuum pumps [or high vacuum pump]
: activated charcoal [or activated carbon]
Irving Langmuir
Along with William Trotter, this man names a theorem that gives a precise bound on the number of incidences between a set of points and a set of lines. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematician, who proved that any sufficiently large graph has an epsilon-regular partition, a result known as his regularity lemma.
Szemerédi used his regularity lemma to prove a celebrated theorem stating that any set of integers with positive upper density contains arbitrarily large examples of these things. which are sequence with a constant difference between pairs of elements.
This other Hungarian mathematician has a namesake conjecture on arithmetic progressions generalizing Szemerédi’s theorem. This extremely prolific mathematician names a number measuring the collaboration distance between him and any other person.
Endre Szemerédi [seh-mer-AY-dee]
arithmetic sequences
Paul Erdős [AIR-dish]
This man is the alphabetically first namesake of a 1943 experiment, also known as the fluctuation test, which shows that genetic mutations occur in the absence of selection.  For 10 points each:
Name this German biophysicist who names that experiment, along with Salvador Luria.
Delbruck, Luria, and Alfred Hershey were leaders of a group named after these viruses that infect and replicate within bacteria. The Luria-Delbruck Experiment featured E. coli cultures, whose agar contained the T1 examples of these.
The precursors to the Hershey-Chase experiments done by Griffith, and Avery, Oswald, and McCarty used this species of bacteria to study the role of DNA. Griffith used the virulent III-S and non-virulent II-R strains of this species.
Max (Ludwig Henning) Delbrück
phages [or American Phage Group; accept bacteriophage]
Streptococcus pneumoniae
This phenomenon can be divided into explicit and spontaneous varieties depending on, respectively, whether the equations of motion or the ground state fails to be invariant. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which small fluctuations acting on a system crossing a critical point prevent said system from becoming invariant under operations such as rotations and translations.
This theorem, under the assumptions of finite temperatures and short-range interactions, states that continuous symmetries cannot be broken in one and two dimensions. The two-dimensional Ising model shows that this theorem does not apply to discrete symmetries.
Proofs of the Mermin-Wagner theorem usually consider the special class of these particles named for Nambu and Goldstone. These particles include a famous one named for Higgs.
symmetry breaking [prompt on a partial answer; accept explicit symmetry breaking or spontaneous symmetry breaking]
Mermin-Wagner-Hohenberg-Berezinskii theorem [or Coleman theorem; prompt on partial answers]
bosons [accept Nambu-Goldstone bosons; or Higgs boson]
For 10 points, name these minerals that can adopt a botryoidal habit, which means they are composed of a bunch of spheres that look like grapes.
Chalcedony, a subtype of this mineral, can form purple botryoidal clusters that go by the trade name “grape agate.” This mineral is at the bottom of Bowen’s reaction series.
This other mineral can adopt a botryoidal habit with larger, more irregular, spheres. Along with magnetite, it is one of the main ores of iron.
This vibrantly green form of copper(II) carbonate is often found alongside azurite, and used for decoration and pigments. It is associated with limestone deposits.
quartz
hematite
malachite
Since it is aneutronic, the proton-boron reaction is a popular candidate for achieving a sustainable terrestrial version of this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process. Unlike a similar process, it is harder to contain, and combines light nuclei instead of splitting heavy ones.
Cold fusion now has negative connotations, but one form of fusion which does take place at a reasonable temperature is fusion catalyzed by these particles. Since they are heavier than electrons, they bring the nuclei close enough together to promote fusion.
Since muons cost too much energy to produce, fusion must occur at high temperatures and densities to achieve this criterion which quantifies the conditions necessary for ignition.
nuclear fusion [do not accept or prompt on “(nuclear) fission”]
muons
Lawson criterion
Answer the following about mesothelioma. For 10 points each:
Most mesothelioma cases are caused by exposure to these silicate minerals that form fibrous crystals. They were used in building insulation until it was found that their inhalation can lead to lung problems.
Mesothelioma commonly affects these structures and can cause buildup of fluid within their namesake cavity. The parietal one is attached to the thoracic cavity, while the visceral one lies on top of the lungs.
Mesothelium, the tissue type affected by mesothelioma, is this type of epithelial tissue. It consists of a single layer of flat epithelial cells and is used in places where fast diffusion is necessary, such as the capillaries and alveoli.
asbestos
pulmonary pleurae
simple squamous epithelia [prompt on a partial answer]
In one test of this concept, a tachistoscope is used to display an array of letters and participants are asked to recall either the array or a single row. For 10 points each:
Name this form of visual memory that is high capacity but lasts for only a brief period of time. It supposedly plays a role in “change blindness.”
Tachistoscopes can also be used to display text in this technique, whose methods include eliminating subvocalization and chunking. Programs like Spritz may be used in this technique.
A model of human memory named after this type of memory was proposed by Alan Baddeley and Graham Hitch. According to that theory, this type of memory involves the “inner eye” and the “inner ear,” and it includes the temporarily available information the brain is using.
iconic memory [prompt on short-term memory]
speed reading [prompt on reading or skimming]
working memory [prompt on short-term memory] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, give the following about chemicals used to clean pools.
This ion is commonly added to pools to chlorinate them. Liquid bleach is a solution of this ion and sodium.
Cyanuric acid is added so that pools can stay chlorinated in sunlight. It exists as a tautomer, one with three hydroxyl groups, and the other with three of this functional group. This carbonyl-containing functional group is present in acetone.
Ions of this element are frequently added to pools to prevent algal growth, either directly through electrodes, or through addition of this element’s sulfate. This element’s sulfate is also used in the Bordeaux mixture, a common fungicide in vineyards.
hypochlorite [or HClO-]
ketones
copper
This condition may progress to Barrett’s esophagus and different esophageal cancers as stomach content moves back up into the esophagus. For 10 points each:
Name this condition, which may be caused by a hiatal hernia. In this condition, the lower esophageal sphincter fails.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease is often treated with this class of medications. This class of medication works by preventing the release of a certain ion into the gastric lumen by parietal cells, thus decreasing the amount of acid in the stomach.
Proton-pump inhibitor took over the treatment of excess stomach acid from this class of drugs, examples of which are cimetidine and betazole. These drugs inhibit a certain receptor that binds a messenger released from enterochromaffin like-cells.
gastroesophageal reflux disease [or GERD; or acid reflux; prompt on heartburn]
proton-pump inhibitors [or PPIs]
H2 inhibitors [or H2 antagonists; or H2 blockers; or H2RA] &lt;Ed. JS&gt;
This model improved on an earlier model of Einstein’s by removing the assumption of complete independence between the oscillators. For 10 points each:
Name this model of a solid, which predicts a temperature cubed dependence of heat capacity at low temperature.
The Debye model recovers the Dulong-Petit law at high temperatures, which predicts that the heat capacity is three times this number, which is the constant of proportionality between P V and n T in a similarly named law.
This parameter describes variations in the heat capacity with temperature not captured by the Debye model, due to thermal expansion.
Debye model
ideal gas law constant [or universal gas constant]
Grüneisen parameter
A mixture known as white liquor in this process consists of water, lye, and sodium sulfide, among other fun chemicals. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which breaks down lignin and hemicellulose to produce pulp.
The Kraft process is a key component of the production of this commodity, which might be lined or bond quality. It only takes one sheet to make a difference.
Paper which is acid-free does not contain this compound, formerly commonly used to help size the paper. This compound is also commonly found in styptic pencils to stem bleeding.
Kraft process
paper
alum [or aluminium sulfate]
This device maintains a constant volume in order to maintain a consistent heat capacity. For 10 points each:
Name this dangerous sounding device, used to measure the heat of combustion.
This type of calorimetry measures the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a sample and a reference in lock-step. It is similar to, but distinct from, DTA.
A third type of calorimetry is this technique, used to determine the properties of interactions in solutions. The change in the temperature of a buffer solution is measured after injection of the compounds of interest and compared to a reference buffer.
bomb calorimeter [prompt on a partial answer]
differential scanning calorimetry
isothermal titration calorimetry
Primary and secondary imbalances are causes of vibrations in these devices. For 10 points each:
Identify these devices which commonly power automobiles. They may be fueled by gasoline or diesel fuel.
Efficiency and power of a piston engine can be improved using one of these devices, which use exhaust gas to drive a compressor. Unfortunately, these devices can cause a namesake type of “lag” between throttle application and change in power output.
Secondary imbalance in piston engines is caused by mass not being symmetrically distributed between top and bottom [this position] of a piston’s cycle. Ignition typically begins slightly before top [this position].
piston engine [or reciprocating engine; prompt on internal combustion engine with “What does the combustion move?”]
turbocharger
dead center
Some of the most popular of these software packages include Backbone, Meteor, Ember, Play, and Angular. For 10 points each:
Name these reusable software components that form the base for most contemporary web applications. They differ from libraries in that they provide default behavior and exhibit inversion of control.
The profusion of web frameworks is usually chalked up to the singular combination of questionable design and extreme extensibility in this language which runs inside web browsers. It was created by Brendan Eich in less than two weeks.
Facebook is built using this JavaScript library and framework inspired by functional programming. Properties can only flow down this framework’s virtual DOM while actions flow up, and components for this framework are usually written using the JSX extension.
web frameworks [accept, but do not read, JavaScript frameworks]
JavaScript
React
In the imaginal disk for this organ, engrailed is expressed in the posterior compartment and apterous in the dorsal compartment. For 10 points each:
Name this complex organ, whose cells’ spatial development is facilitated by diffusion of decapentaplegic, or Dpp, from a narrow band along the antero-posterior boundary.
Dpp production is stimulated at short range by this other signaling protein expressed in the posterior compartment. Vertebrate analogues of this protein include Indian, desert, and Sonic.
engrailed, apterous, hedgehog, and Dpp are all morphogens expressed in the embryos of this invertebrate model organism. Thomas Hunt Morgan performed most of his experiments with this organism.
the wing
hedgehog signaling protein [or Hh]
Drosophila melanogaster [or common fruit fly; prompt on Drosophila]
Burton Richter and Samuel Ting’s discovery of this particle triggered the November Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this meson with a mass of 3.096 gigaelectronvolts that is the first excited state of charmonium.
The “melting” of the J/psi meson is a potential indicator for the formation of this mind-bogglingly hot and dense substance, which is studied in the ALICE experiment at CERN.
This process is thought to have filled the universe with quark-gluon plasma about 10 to the minus 32 seconds after the Big Bang. While undergoing this process, the universe expanded at a rate greater than the speed of light.
J/psi meson
quark-gluon plasma [or QGP]
inflation
Apple CEO Tim Cook wrote in an open letter that “it would be wrong for the government to force us to build a backdoor into our products.” For 10 points each:
Apple’s mobile device CPUs contain hardware engines for this symmetric-key encryption algorithm that uses a substitution-permutation network based on the Rijndael cipher and superseded DES.
The hardware AES engine encrypts the phone’s passcode using a key computed through this process, which makes a weak key more secure by increasing the time it takes to test each possible key. Apple’s implementation of this process uses the PBKDF2 function and takes 80ms to verify a passcode.
PBKDF2 involves repeatedly applying HMAC-SHA1, a keyed version of one of these functions, to the combination of the phone’s unique hardware ID and a pseudorandom salt. These functions transform arbitrary-sized input data into a fixed-sized output in an effectively irreversible way.
AES [accept Advanced Encryption Standard]
key stretching
cryptographic hash
One plus this function equals the exponential of the negative product of the potential and the thermodynamic beta. For 10 points each:
Name this function that can be substituted into the configuration integral to generate a cluster expansion.
The Mayer f-function can be used to compute the coefficients of this equation, which gives the pressure of a system in terms of a power series in the particle density.
This chemist is the namesake of the temperature where the second virial coefficient vanishes and a law stating that the pressure and volume of an ideal gas are inversely proportional at constant temperature and particle number.
Mayer f-function [prompt on “f”]
virial equation of state [or virial expansion; or Kamerlingh Onnes equation]
Robert Boyle
The significant difference between the observed and theoretical values of this quantity for the muon is one of the primary failings of the Standard Model. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that equals the g-factor minus two, divided by two.
This scientist’s calculation of the first-order anomalous magnetic moment of the electron is inscribed on his tombstone. With Dyson, he names the equivalent of the Euler-Lagrange equations in quantum field theory, and with Lippmann, he names an equation that gives the wavefunctions of the in and out states for a scattering process.
Along with Feynman and Tomonaga, Schwinger won the Nobel Prize in Physics for renormalizing this theory.
anomalous magnetic dipole moment [do not accept “magnetic moment”]
Julian Schwinger
QED [or quantum electrodynamics]
The second generation versions of these catalysts include an N-heterocyclic carbene ligand and are more air- and water-stable than their first generation counterparts. For 10 points each:
Name these ruthenium-based carbene catalysts developed by an eponymous Nobel laureate in Chemistry.
Grubbs’ catalyst can be used to facilitate the ring-opening metathesis version of this type of reaction. This type of reaction typically proceeds through initiation, propagation, and termination steps.
Grubbs’ catalyst contains a middle transition metal center in a low oxidation state, in contrast with this class of carbenes that use high-valent early transition metal centers. An example of this class of carbenes is the active form of Tebbe’s reagent.
Grubbs’ catalysts
polymerization
Schrock carbenes
Symptoms of this condition include an extreme sensitivity to sunlight, short stature, and an appearance of premature aging or progeria. For 10 points each:
Name this autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the ERCC6 and ERCC8 genes. Type II of this condition is congenital and usually causes death by age seven, while type I usually shows onset a year after birth.
ERCC6 and ERCC8 both code for proteins involved in this general genetic process, which can fix DNA damaged by ultraviolet radiation. In this process, faulty patches of genetic material are cut away and replaced.
Nucleotide excision repair is particularly good at removing and replacing dimers of this nucleobase, which often form under exposure to UV radiation. This is the only base not found in RNA.
Cockayne syndrome
excision repair [accept nucleotide excision repair and base excision repair; prompt on DNA mismatch repair, which is a type of excision repair]
thymine
These systems exhibit western intensification due to the Coriolis effect. For 10 points each:
Name these large-scale systems of rotating ocean currents. The North Pacific one contains a high concentration of man-made debris.
This ocean current is the westernmost component of the North Pacific gyre. It carries warm water north from the Philippines to the eastern coast of Japan.
Most of the Great Pacific Garbage Patch is made up of these materials, which consist of an organic polymer backbone with various additives. These materials have a negative effect on the environment because they take so long to degrade.
gyres
Kuroshio Current
plastics
Proving that one of these theories exists and has a mass gap is a Millennium Prize problem. For 10 points each:
Name this family of non-Abelian gauge theories based on compact semisimple Lie algebras.
Yang-Mills theories incorporate these complex scalar fields due to the need to break gauge symmetry in order to preserve unitarity in the path integral formulation.
Faddeev-Popov ghosts in Yang-Mills theories are anticommutative and therefore correspond to symmetries of these particles, which have half-integer spin.
Yang-Mills theories
Faddeev-Popov ghosts
fermions
This functional group is reacted with strong base to give an alkene in the Bamford-Stevens reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this functional group, which is converted to an alkene through addition of butyllithium in the Shapiro reaction.
The related hydrazone functional group serves as an intermediate in this reduction of aldehydes and ketones to alkanes under basic conditions.
The Clemmenson reduction affects the same transformation as the Wolff-Kishner reduction, using a zinc amalgam and this strong acid. This acid is a component of aqua regia along with nitric acid.
tosylhydrazone
Wolff-Kishner reduction
hydrochloric acid [or HCl]
In these landforms, the equilibrium line separates the zone of ablation and zone of accumulation. For 10 points each:
Name these landforms that move via plastic flow and basal sliding. Their fracture zones may form crevasses.
In this process, glacial ice acts as a lever that lifts up whole pieces of bedrock called joint blocks and traps them inside the bottom of a glacier.
Rocks that become part of a glacier through plucking may later form this kind of material in which pebbles and gravel are surrounded by a uniform matrix of sand and silt. This material makes up the bulk of a terminal moraine.
glaciers
plucking [or quarrying]
till
This process consists of the light dependent and light independent reactions. For 10 points each:
Name this process performed by photoautotrophs that converts carbon dioxide and water into glucose and oxygen using light.
In C4 and CAM plants, the carbon fixation step of the light independent reaction occurs by the addition of carbon dioxide to this three carbon molecule via its namesake carboxylase.
In the light dependent reaction, photosystem II uses the energy from sunlight to split water and transfer the electrons to this molecule, which then passes the electrons to the cytochrome proton pump.
photosynthesis
PEP [or phosphoenolpyruvate]
plastoquinone
The primary compiler for this language is maintained by Simon Peyton-Jones and was originally developed at Glasgow University. For 10 points each:
Name this strongly-typed purely-functional programming language with lazy evaluation, which features algebraic data types, list comprehensions, and pattern matching. Hackage is the package repository for this language.
One well-known but confusing Haskell feature is this typeclass, named for a category-theoretic object which consists of an endofunctor and two natural transformations. In Haskell these objects define “return” and “bind” functions and are used to sequence actions like IO.
Haskell implementations of this kind of program, such as the attoparsec library, use a monad instance to chain subcomponents together and organize information flow from the input text to the structured output. This operation is the first step in compilation and is often performed using regular expressions.
Haskell
monads
parsing [accept parser]
In a dilute solution, the value of this quantity for a particular ionic species equals the exponential of the product of a temperature-dependent constant, the charge number of the species, and the ionic strength. For 10 points each:
Name these quantities that are multiplied by the mole fractions in the expressions for the chemical potentials of solutes in non-ideal solutions.
This model enables the calculation of activity coefficients via differentiation of the excess Gibbs free energy.
Gibbs free energy equals this quantity minus the product of temperature and entropy. The change in this quantity for a reaction is symbolized delta H, and equals the change in internal energy plus the work done by the system.
activity coefficients [do not accept “activity”]
Margules model
enthalpy
The Mott variety of these materials is exemplified by nickel oxide. For 10 points each:
Name these materials whose topological variety have conducting states on the surface but not in the bulk. These materials have very large band gaps and therefore do not conduct electricity well.
“Mottism” refers to all the characteristic properties of a Mott insulator aside from this one. Materials with this property are prone to geometrical frustration because their lattice structures may have multiple minimum-energy arrangements of spins.
This model uses a Hamiltonian containing “hopping” and on-site repulsion terms to explain the transition from a metal to a Mott insulator. The t-J model is a special case of this model for high-temperature superconductors.
insulators
antiferromagnetism [accept word forms; do not accept “ferromagnetism”]
Hubbard model
Organisms that live in the deep-sea ecosystems centered on these objects include members of the genus Osedax, also known as “zombie worms.” For 10 points each:
Name these objects that, along with marine snow, act as the main source of organic matter in the abyssal zone.
These organisms are present during the “mobile scavenger” stage of a whale fall ecosystem. These members of the class Myxini are known for being able to secrete copious amounts of slime in order to defend against predators.
These other objects produce geothermally heated, nutrient-rich water that supports a wide variety of organisms, including chemosynthetic bacteria and tubeworms. They may form chimney-like structures called black smokers.
whale falls [accept answers describing dead whales]
hagfish
hydrothermal vents
In this technique, high-energy photons are shot at a sample to excite core electrons into the continuum, and K-edge, L-edge, and M-edge excitations are often used. For 10 points each:
Name this technique often used to obtain information about the structure of a complex from its EXAFS region.
The edge energy of an XAS spectrum can give information about this quantity for a metal, which, along with spin state, can also be deduced from an isomer shift in Mössbauer spectroscopy. The isomer shift decreases as this quantity increases.
The intensity of the pre-edge region of an XAS spectrum is related to this quantity, which is 6 for octahedral complexes and 4 for tetrahedral complexes.
X-ray Absorption spectroscopy [or XAS]
oxidation state
coordination number [accept more general answers like number of ligands]
Allosteric antagonists for this molecule include picrotoxin and bicuculline, and it can be secreted by chandelier cells. For 10 points each:
Name this excitatory neurotransmitter produced by a namesake “shunt” in the brain. Receptors for this neurotransmitter are divided into “A” and “B” types, and are the target of drugs like barbiturates.
GABA is primarily synthesized in the soma of neurons and then brought to the synapse via the fast anterograde pathway of axoplasmic transport, which uses this plus-end-directed motor protein to move along a microtubule skeleton.
While A-type GABA receptors are ligand-gated chlorine channels, B-type receptors are GPRCs that eventually stimulate an efflux of this ion. Neurons contain “pumps” that couple fluxes in this ion with fluxes in sodium ions.
gamma-aminobutyric acid [or GABA]
kinesin [do not accept “dynein”; all clues are specific to kinesin]
potassium ions [or K+ ions]
The most likely decay mode of a Higgs boson is into one of these particles and its antiparticle. For 10 points each:
Name these particles whose jets are relatively easy to identify because they exhibit secondary vertices that do not originate at collision points.
The relative probabilities of the flavor-changing decays of bottom quarks are given by the elements in the third column of this triply-eponymous matrix.
The complex phase that arises in the Standard Model parameterization of the CKM matrix corresponds to the violation of this symmetry in the weak interaction, as first observed by Cronin and Fitch in neutral kaons. However, all known physical phenomena obey the combination of this symmetry and T-symmetry.
bottom quarks
CKM matrix [or Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix]
CP symmetry [or charge-parity symmetry]
This experiment operates a pair of Michelson interferometers in Livingston, Louisiana and Hanford, Washington. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment that made the first direct observation of gravitational waves on September 14, 2015.
Hulse and Taylor discovered a binary one of these stars whose orbital decay provides strong indirect evidence for the existence of gravitational waves.
Primordial gravitational waves are theoretically detectable in this feature of the cosmic microwave background.
Advanced LIGO [or Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory]
pulsars
B-mode polarization
The most general description of this phenomenon is given by the Kirchhoff integral. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that may be described by the somewhat simpler Fresnel and Fraunhofer equations in the near-field and far-field cases, respectively.
Applying this operation to the electric field distribution at an aperture produces the Fraunhofer diffraction pattern. Applying this operation to the autocorrelation function of an optical signal gives its power spectrum by the Wiener-Khinchin theorem.
Plotting one of the Fresnel integrals on the real axis and the other on the imaginary axis produces this tool for graphical analysis of near-field diffraction.
diffraction
Fourier transform
Cornu spiral [or Euler spiral; or clothoid]
This theorem was proved alongside Thurston’s geometrization conjecture. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem that states that every simply connected, closed 3-manifold is homeomorphic to the 3-sphere. This is the only Millennium Prize problem that has been solved.
Grigori Perelman’s proof of the Poincaré conjecture uses this process “with surgery,” which removes singularities. This process deforms the metric of a Riemannian manifold using a partial differential equation similar to the heat equation.
The generalized Poincaré conjecture asks if an n-manifold that has this relation to the n-sphere is also homeomorphic to the n-sphere. This relationship occurs between two spaces X and Y if there exist continuous maps f and g such that f of g and g of f can be continuously deformed into the identity maps of X and Y, respectively.
Poincaré conjecture
Ricci flow
homotopy equivalence [or homotopy equivalent; accept answers like “they’re of the same homotopy type”; do not accept or prompt on “homotopy” alone or its word forms]
This linear variational method includes all Slater determinants of the correct symmetry and is capable of providing an exact solution to the time-independent, non-relativistic Schrödinger equation. For 10 points each:
Name this very expensive method in computational chemistry. Davidson has developed a correction that allows for estimations of the energy that would be obtained in this method.
Full CI will provide numerically exact answers in the limit of an infinitely flexible and complete one of these constructs, a set of functions used to build molecular orbitals. Common examples include Pople’s 6-31G and Alrich’s TZVP.
Many modern basis sets use linear combinations of this kind of function to represent molecular orbitals. This function also gives its name to a widely used computational chemistry software package developed by Pople, and is used to describe a normal distribution in statistics.
full configuration interaction [or full CI; prompt on configuration interaction]
basis sets
Gaussian
Answer some questions about pseudogenes, for 10 points each:
In some cases, genes can become pseudogenes due to mutation or deletion of these vital genomic regions that bind RNA polymerase and initiate transcription. The TATA and Pribnow boxes are often found in these regions.
KLRAP1, the gene for the human analogue of Ly-49, is transcribed successfully but loses its mRNA transcript via this process. This process, a type of mRNA surveillance, is facilitated by the exon junction complex and the SURF complex, and it deletes transcripts with a namesake mutation.
Due to a nonsense mutation, the wild-type gene for type 12 in this protein family is truncated and nonfunctional, making it a pseudogene; populations with the functional version are more vulnerable to sepsis. Type 8 in this family is activated by Fas receptors via FADD.
promoters
nonsense-mediated decay [or NMD]
caspases
Name the following diagrams important in inorganic chemistry, for 10 points each:
These diagrams plot the relative energies of their namesake constructs, which can be generated using the LCAO approximation introduced by Lennard-Jones. These diagrams can be used to predict whether homonuclear diatomic complexes are paramagnetic or diamagnetic.
These diagrams often named for a British chemist can be used to describe how changes in geometry are related to changes in molecular orbital energies. They can, for example, explain why BH3 is planar, while NH3 is pyramidal.
These diagrams plot the energies electronic states available to a transition metal complex versus its d-orbital splitting. They can be used for both high- and low-spin complexes, unlike Orgel diagrams, which are only valid for high-spin complexes.
molecular orbital diagrams
Walsh diagrams [accept correlation diagrams; accept angular coordinate diagrams]
Tanabe-Sugano diagrams [accept T-S diagrams]
This operation makes the Schrödinger equation take the form of the heat equation. For 10 points each:
Name this operation that relates path integrals in quantum mechanics to partition functions in statistical mechanics by converting between imaginary time and inverse temperature.
Wick rotation may also be used to transform problems in Minkowski space into problems in Euclidean space, thus making it useful in the study of this theory that explains phenomena like time dilation and Lorentz contraction.
This is the name given to the path that a pointlike object takes as it travels through Minkowski space.
Wick rotation
special relativity
world line
The exchange of CO2 for O2 in the blood occurs between the pulmonary capillaries and these structures in the lungs. For 10 points each:
Name these air sacs, important for respiratory gas exchange, which expand and contract based on air pressure and become inflamed in pneumonia.
Synthesized by Type II alveolar epithelial cells, this phospholipid monolayer reduces effective surface tension and prevents smaller alveoli from collapsing.
The oxygen uptake of normal lungs is usually limited by this process, unless in certain situations, such as at extremely high altitudes or with heavy exercise, when uptake may become diffusion limited.
alveoli
lung surfactant
perfusion
This operation can be useful in visualizing the minimal solution to a system of linear equations. For 10 points each:
Name this linear transformation that, in the case of a vector a onto a vector b, can be calculated as a-dot-b over b-dot-b, all times b.
Projections are used in each step of this algorithm for orthonormalizing a set of linearly independent vectors in Rn. In this process, the projection of one vector onto another is subtracted from the first vector, giving a vector orthogonal to the latter.
The projection operation possesses this property, in which the operator applied multiple times gives the same result as the operator applied only once. Another example of an operation with this property is absolute value.
projection [or orthogonal projection or vector projection]
Gram-Schmidt process [or Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization or Gram-Schmidt orthonormalization]
idempotence [accept word forms]
Answer the following about a phase of steel named for English metallurgist Sir William Chandler Roberts-Austen, austenite. For 10 points each:
Austenite has this crystal structure, in which each sphere has coordination number 12 and there are 4 lattice points per unit cell. Along with hexagonal close-packed, this crystal structure has the maximum packing efficiency.
When austenite is cooled rapidly enough, it undergoes a diffusionless transition to this hard and brittle phase.
In nickel-titanium alloys, the phase transition between austenite and martensite exhibits this effect, which may manifest as thermal hysteresis or superelasticity. Alloys that exhibit this effect are subject to functional fatigue.
face centered cubic [accept fcc]
martensite
shape memory
Infliximab binds to this cytokine and prevents it from triggering an inflammatory response. For 10 points each:
Name this trimeric cytokine that does a lot of harmful things, including triggering apoptosis via activation of caspase-8, and strongly activating the stress-related JNK pathway.
TNF-alpha is secreted by these cells when active. These cells engulf and phagocytose foreign particles and are a major line of defense in the innate immune system.
TNF-alpha can also inhibit or divert neutrophils as they move in response to a signaling gradient, a process given this name. Neutrophils generally perform this in response to signals like fMLP.
TNF-alpha [or tumor necrosis factor alpha; or cachexin]
macrophages
chemotaxis
In this theory, the namesake types of compounds are divided into two classes, one consisting of small and weakly polarizable members and one with large and strongly polarizable members. For 10 points each:
Name this theory developed by Pearson to predict inorganic reactivity.
Examples of soft bases include members of this class of ligands, for which the concept of the Tolman cone angle was initially developed.
Phosphines also function as this kind of base, because they can donate a lone pair of electrons through their highest occupied molecular orbital, or HOMO.
HSAB theory [or hard and soft acid and base theory]
phosphine
Lewis base
Two early statistical models for this problem are IBM-1 and IBM-2, which use probabilistic alignments and conditional lexical probabilities. For 10 points each:
Name this task carried out by a popular Google website that uses an algorithm created by Franz Och. That website for this task announced support for Amharic and Kurdish in February 2016.
Most automatic speech recognition systems use a decoder that uses this trellis-based algorithm for finding the most likely sequence of states in a hidden Markov model consistent with an observed sequence.
Both the machine translation and speech recognition research communities have been shaken by the rise of “deep learning” systems that outperform traditional approaches and make use of the recurrent variant of these biologically-inspired machine learning models.
machine translation
Viterbi algorithm
neural networks
For lossless transmission, these equations are (read slowly) d-V d-x equals negative L times d-I d-t and d-I d-x equals negative C times d-V d-t. For 10 points each:
Name these equations that describe an infinite series of infinitesimal two-port networks, each with a series resistor, series inductor, shunt resistor, and shunt capacitor.
For a lossless transmission line, the characteristic value of this quantity is the square root of inductance over capacitance. This complex quantity equals the sum of resistance and reactance and is symbolized Z.
The power transfer along a transmission line is maximized when the load impedance and source impedance have this relationship.
telegrapher’s equations
impedance
complex conjugates
One of these compounds contains an interatomic bond that has the longest known bond length. For 10 points each:
Name this type of compound that Neil Bartlett became the first to synthesize after noticing that the ionization energy of O2 was comparable to that of a certain element, which he then reacted with platinum hexafluoride.
Xenon compounds may exist in this short-lived molecular state when subjected to electron discharge pumping. These molecules produce stimulated emission in the ultraviolet range in a namesake type of high-power laser.
Atoms in an excited state may also combine to form an exotic phase of matter named for this scientist, whose namesake empirical formula gives the wavelength of a hydrogen spectral line for a given energy level transition.
xenon compounds [or noble gas compounds]
excimers [or excited dimers; or exciplexes; or excited complexes]
Johannes Robert Rydberg
The “absolute” type of this quantity is the ratio of the number of individuals with a genotype before and after selection. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that denotes an organism’s capacity to survive and reproduce.
This equation sums the covariance between a trait and fitness and the expected change in a trait due to fitness in order to approximate the total change in said trait.
This stochastic process is used to model changes in variety or evolution in a given finite population from mutations or genetic drift. Its parameters include the population size N and two competing alleles A and B.
fitness
Price’s equation [or Price’s theorem]
Moran process
The Exner equation describes the balance between the transport and deposition of this material in rivers. For 10 points each:
Name this material that forms a class of rock exemplified by sandstone and limestone.
This type of sediment consists of silt, sand, and clay that has been deposited by wind. It is responsible for the characteristic color of China’s Yellow River.
This term refers to any change undergone by a sedimentary rock after its formation, excluding weathering and metamorphism.
sediment
loess
diagenesis
These quantities are the elements of the matrix that transforms the tensor product of two irreducible representations into the direct sum of those representations. For 10 points each:
Name these quantities that can be computed using a recursion relation developed by Giulio Racah. Their higher-dimensional generalizations include the Wigner 6-j and 9-j symbols.
The Clebsch-Gordan coefficients for this symmetry group are useful in the analysis of hadronic decays. The Gell-Mann matrices are generators of this symmetry group, which underlies the Eightfold Way.
SU(3) is the symmetry group of this fundamental force, which is described by quantum chromodynamics.
Clebsch-Gordan coefficients
SU(3) [or the special unitary group of order 3]
strong nuclear force
In this technique, an impure compound is dissolved in hot solvent, generating a saturated solution which is then allowed to cool. For 10 points each:
Name this technique, where in the most typical situation the desired pure product crashes out of the saturated solution as it cools due to the pure compound’s decreased solubility at lower temperatures relative to the impurities.
To remove colored impurities, a small amount of this substance can be added to the hot solution. The solution is then stirred and filtered hot to remove this substance.
After the pure compound crystallizes out of solution, it can be collected on filter paper by drawing the solution and solid through a Büchner funnel using this type of pump. When operating in the ultra-high regime, this type of pump can generate pressures as low as one nanotorr.
recrystallization [prompt on crystallization]
activated charcoal [or activated carbon; or activated coal; accept decolorizing in the place of activated; prompt on incomplete answers]
vacuum pump [accept suction pump]
The vertical cavity surface emitting variety of these devices is a key component of data centers. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that most commonly use a semiconductor diode or a doped crystal as the gain medium in which stimulated emission occurs.
Passive mode-locked lasers may use a lens that exhibits the AC type of this effect to provide self-focusing. The DC type of this effect involves a change in refractive index proportional to the square of the applied electric field.
This phenomenon occurs when the gain of a laser saturates at certain frequencies due to induced inhomogeneity in the absorption spectrum or to the formation of a standing wave interference pattern in the resonant cavity.
lasers
Kerr effect
spectral and/or spatial hole burning
The expression of Lefty, nodal, and pitx2 signaling proteins is key to the asymmetric development of this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this human organ that forms from the looping of a namesake “tube” in the embryo.
Despite the name, the cardiac complex of this group of embryonic cells does not form the cells of the heart, but instead the connective tissue around the heart. This tissue also gives rise to melanocytes, cartilage, and glial cells.
The neural crest is located between the neural tube and this outermost germ layer of the early embryo. The nervous system and epidermis originate in this layer.
human heart
neural crest
ectoderm
Some proofs of this theorem, which is also known as the sequential compactness theorem, invoke the monotone convergence theorem. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem in real analysis that states that every bounded sequence in Rn has a subsequence that converges.
One proof of the Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem uses a sequence of these constructs. Their namesake theorem says that if these constructs are closed and bounded, then their intersection is nonempty.
Bernard Bolzano first proved the Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem in proving this other theorem, which states that a continuous function F on the interval [a, b] will take on any value between F[a] and F[b] at some point on [a, b].
Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem
nested intervals
intermediate value theorem
The Hasegawa-Mima equation describes turbulence in these devices. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that generate both toroidal and poloidal magnetic fields in order to confine plasma.
Tokamaks are the front-runner in the search for a technology that can generate sustainable energy via this process, which occurs naturally in the cores of stars.
This singly-eponymous criterion is typically defined as the minimum value of the product of particle density, confinement time, and plasma temperature for which a fusion reactor will reach ignition and become self-sustaining.
tokamaks
nuclear fusion
Lawson criterion
The activation of Hct1-APC and Sic1 suppresses Cdk activity in the early part of this phase. For 10 points each:
Name this phase of the cell cycle. Late in this phase, Rb is phosphorylated and inactivated, allowing E2F protein to enter a feedback loop that promotes transition into a new phase.
The G1 phase usually occurs after M phase, which is named for this process in which the cell’s chromosomes split between two future nuclei. This process includes prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase.
In cells with DNA damage, this regulatory protein binds less strongly to Mdm2 and is more resistant to degradation, allowing it to block the G1/S transition. Patients with Li-Fraumeni syndrome have a mutant copy of the gene for this protein.
G1 phase [or gap 1 phase]
mitosis
p53
The constant of proportionality in this effect is used to define the ohm. For 10 points each:
Name this effect that occurs when a strong magnetic field forces electrons into highly degenerate Landau levels.
This material exhibits an anomalous version of the quantum Hall effect where the n equals zero Landau level coincides with the Dirac point. It is possible to isolate this material using Scotch tape and a pencil.
Graphene also exhibits this phenomenon described by the Landauer-Büttiker formalism, in which electrons experience negligible scattering while traveling at non-relativistic speeds.
integer quantum Hall effect [do not accept “Hall effect” or “fractional quantum Hall effect”]
graphene
ballistic transport [or ballistic conduction]
Along with Safronov, this scientist names a criterion that extends the Jeans criterion by incorporating the effect of the shear force produced by differential rotation. For 10 points each:
Name this astronomer whose namesake Q parameter is a measure of the stability of a gaseous disc.
Alar and Juri Toomre made the first simulations of this process, which produces tidal tails and is responsible for the displacement of the visible matter distribution from the center of gravitational potential in the Bullet Cluster.
This galaxy, which has Messier number 31, will undergo a merger with the Milky Way in about 4 billion years.
Alar Toomre
galactic mergers [accept answers that indicate two galaxies are colliding]
Andromeda
Answer the following relating to 1,2-shift reactions, for 10 points each:
This 1,2-hydride shift occurs when a hydrogen atom on an aromatic ring migrates to an adjacent carbon. It often occurs during hydroxylation reactions and is named for the institute that first reported it.
The Wagner-Meerwein rearrangement is a 1,2-shift involving migration of a hydrogen, alkyl, or aryl group, which proceeds through this kind of intermediate. These molecules possess carbons with a positive charge.
A 1,2-alkyl shift can also occur to stabilize the carbocation intermediate formed in reactions that proceed through this non-concerted mechanism involving removal of two substituents from a molecule. In this mechanism, the leaving group is removed in the first step and a base removes a proton in the second step.
NIH shift [or National Institutes of Health shift]
carbocation
E1 [prompt on elimination]
In the intrinsic or “contact activation” pathway for initiating this process, factor XII binds to a surface and spontaneously becomes active, starting a cascade. For 10 points each:
Name this cascading process whose ultimate goal is the conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin, allowing formation of a thrombus.
Blood coagulation is much more commonly initiated via the extrinsic process, also named for this protein that is secreted in response to trauma. This factor activates factor X.
This common anticoagulant medication prevents the recycling of oxidized vitamin K, in turn preventing the synthesis of factor X and regulatory factors like protein C and protein S. Though it’s supposed to prevent thrombosis, this medication’s interaction with vitamin K-containing foods can cause the patient to bleed to death.
blood coagulation [or blood clotting]
platelet tissue factor [or TF; or thromboplastin; or factor III; or CD142]
warfarin [or coumadin]
The Mitsunobu reaction converts an alcohol into a member of this functional group using triphenylphosphine and an azodicarboxylate. For 10 points each:
Name this functional group, which is characterized by an R-COOR structure and a fruity odor.
In the Mitsunobu reaction, the alcohol group undergoes an inversion of this quality. This quality is also inverted in SN2 reactions.
A significant drawback of the Mitsunobu reaction is its low value for this quantity, which is defined as the mass of the desired product for a reaction divided by the mass of all reagents used in the reaction. This quantity is an important metric for the “greenness” of a reaction.
ester
stereochemistry [prompt on configuration]
atom economy [or atom efficiency]
These structures are described by Timoshenko theory, which is a generalization of Euler-Bernoulli theory. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that are characterized by their resistance to bending under a load. A cantilever is one of these structures that is only supported on one end.
A principle named for the “virtual” form of this quantity may be used to analyze the deflection of a beam. This quantity equals the line integral of the dot product of the applied force and the differential displacement of an object.
Static structures like beams are commonly modeled using this kind of finite element analysis, which defines the namesake function to quantify each member’s resistance to deformation, then constructs a system of equations that satisfies the equilibrium conditions at nodes where two or more members are connected.
beams
work
stiffness matrix method [or matrix stiffness method; or direct stiffness method]
Bell’s theorem states that no theory with local hidden variables can explain this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which particles can stay correlated despite being separated by a spacelike interval.
Measurement of a quantum system entangles it with the environment, which is referred to as the loss of this property. Eigenstates of the annihilation operator have this property, which is equivalent to minimum uncertainty.
In this quantum optics technique, vacuum fluctuations in a nonlinear crystal occasionally split an incident photon into a pair of entangled photons with combined energy and momentum equal to that of the original photon.
quantum entanglement
decoherence
spontaneous parametric downconversion [or SPDC; or parametric fluorescence; or parametric scattering]
This event is the subject of Douglas Erwin’s “Murder on the Orient Express” hypothesis. For 10 points each:
Name this event that occurred about 250 million years ago due to some combination of volcanic eruptions in the Siberian Traps, oceanic anoxia, an explosion in the population of the microbe Methanosarcina, and other factors.
The Permian extinction was bad news for 80-plus percent of all species on Earth, but good news for organisms like this one, a dicynodont therapsid that became the dominant terrestrial vertebrate during the Early Triassic period.
Lystrosaurus fossils have been found all over areas that used to be part of this supercontinent, which was one of the two major components of Pangaea along with Laurasia.
Permian-Triassic extinction [accept Great Dying]
Lystrosaurus
Gondwanaland
Answer the following about mathematically representing the rates of enzymatic reactions, for 10 points each:
In this model for enzyme kinetics, the reaction rate v equals Vmax times substrate concentration over a namesake constant plus substrate concentration. This model is named for the German biochemist and Canadian physician who developed it.
Michaelis-Menten kinetics can be derived with the use of this assumption, which sets the rate of change of the concentration of a reaction intermediate to zero.
Michaelis-Menten kinetics cannot be used to model systems that exhibit this behavior. Hemoglobin demonstrates this behavior in oxygen binding, while myoglobin does not.
Michaelis-Menten kinetics
steady-state approximation [or stationary-state approximation; accept quasi- or pseudo-steady-state approximation]
cooperativity [or cooperative binding]
The alpha variety of these compounds have both the amine and carboxylic acid functional groups attached to the same first carbon atom. For 10 points each:
Name this class of compounds, often containing a side chain, which include the 23 monomers that form proteins.
One enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of amino acids is this one, which effects its namesake reactivity on an aromatic substrate. A lack of activity in this enzyme is the cause of PKU.
Phenylalanine hydroxylase is responsible for the synthesis of this amino acid, which is converted to L-dopa in the pathway for catecholamine synthesis. When found in namesake receptor proteins, its R group can be phosphorylated.
amino acids
phenylalanine hydroxylase [or PAH]
tyrosine
Mukaiyama has developed a variant of this reaction reacting a silyl enol ether with a formate or aldehyde, and this reaction is performed in the second step of the Robinson Annulation. For 10 points each:
Name this reaction in which an enol or enolate reacts with a carbonyl to form a beta-hydroxyaldehyde or betahydroxyketone. This reaction can be followed by loss of water to give an enone product.
The aldol reaction was co-developed by Charles-Adolphe Wurtz and Alexander Borodin. Borodin is also associated with and sometimes the namesake of the Hunsdiecker reaction, in which a silver salt of this functional group is replaced with bromine.
This compound is used as the solvent in the Hunsdiecker reaction. An atom from this compound also replaces a hydroxide in the Appel reaction. This compound was once frequently used as an NMR solvent due to its lack of protons, though deuterated solvents are more frequently used today due to this compound’s toxicity.
aldol reaction [or aldol condensation]
carboxylic acid [accept carboxylate]
carbon tetrachloride [or tetrachloromethane; or CCl4]
K dot p perturbation theory predicts the existence of “heavy,” “light,” and “split-off” types of these quasiparticles. For 10 points each:
Name this type of quasiparticle that represents the absence of an electron in a valence band.
K dot p perturbation theory provides good theoretical estimates of this quantity, which equals h-bar squared times the inverse of the second derivative of energy with respect to wavenumber in a band structure with a parabolic, isotropic dispersion relation.
Holes generally have a higher value of effective mass than electrons and therefore a lower value of this other quantity, which equals the ratio of the drift velocity of a charge carrier to the magnitude of the applied electric field.
holes
effective mass [do not accept or prompt on “mass”]
mobility
As president of the regional council of Auvergne in his later years, this politician played a major role in the creation of the theme park Vulcania which was, as its name suggests, volcano-themed. For 10 points each:
Name this French president whose modernization projects included the TGV high-speed rail. This leader of the Union for French Democracy was in office from 1974 until he lost the 1981 election to the Socialist candidate.
The newspaper Le Canard Enchaîné unveiled a political scandal in which Giscard was alleged to have accepted these precious items from Bokassa. The Cecil Rhodes-founded De Beers Group mines and sells these gemstones.
Abortion was legalized in France during the presidency of Giscard, mostly thanks to this Minister of Health for whom the law is usually named. An Auschwitz survivor, this woman is one of the most admired in France.
Valéry Giscard d’Estaing [accept VGE]
diamonds
Simone Veil
The binding of antidiuretic hormone to G-protein coupled V2 receptors begins a cascade resulting in the expression of the type 2 version of these proteins. For 10 points each:
Name this family of membrane channels, several types of which, including type 2, may be found in the collecting ducts to concentrate urine.
The collecting duct, along with the glomerulus, the loop of Henle, and the proximal and distal convoluted tubules, can be found in this structure. It is the functional unit of the kidney.
Water moves out of the lumen due to osmotic pressure created by this process. The hairpin shape of the loop of Henle is vital to this process, as well as the active transport of ions out of the thick ascending loop of Henle.
aquaporin [or AQP]
nephron
countercurrent multiplier [do not accept “countercurrent exchange”]
The scattering of solar radiation by this substance causes the zodiacal light. For 10 points each:
Name this substance that consists of grains of ice, silicates, hydrocarbons, and other compounds and is a subject of study in its own right in addition to being a nuisance to astronomers when it gets in the way of their observations.
In this effect, a dust grain experiences a drag force due to radiation pressure with magnitude proportional to the negative five-halves power of the radius of its orbit around a star.
Asteroids produced by the accretion of dust grains during the formation of the solar system may fall to Earth as these objects. They are the most commonly found type of meteorite and are contrasted with iron-nickel meteorites.
dust [accept more specific answers that include the word dust]
Poynting-Robertson drag
chondrites [accept word forms]
Aposematism is the adaptation of conspicuous visual features in response to the presence of these organisms. For 10 points each:
Name this type of organism that is represented by the variable y in the Lotka-Volterra equations. The “apex” variety of these organisms occupies the highest trophic level in a food chain.
This phenomenon occurs when two harmful species that share a common predator evolve to produce the same warning signals, such as the Heliconius and Melinaea genuses of butterflies.
In a classic 1958 experiment, Carl B. Huffaker studied the interaction between predator and prey species of these organisms in twelve “universes” consisting of arrays of oranges and rubber balls.
predators
Müllerian mimicry [prompt on “mimicry”]
mites
This theorem is used in the proof of the Lehmann-Scheffe theorem and, when applied, transforms an arbitrarily crude estimator into a more optimal one. For 10 points each:
Identify this theorem that states that the conditional expected value of an unbiased estimator given a sufficient statistic is another unbiased estimator that is, at worst, as good as the prior estimator.
Rao lends his name to a bound with Cramer that states that the variance of an unbiased estimator is at least as high as the inverse of this quantity, which measures how much an observation can tell us about a given parameter.
The Fisher information of this man’s namesake process is the reciprocal of the variance of the mean number of successes. That process names for this man has only two outcomes: success and failure, and can be modeled by the binomial distribution.
Rao-Blackwell theorem
Fisher information
Jacob Bernoulli
The formation of one of these bonds in a rhenium complex requires the adoption of a sterically unfavorable structure with eclipsed chloride ligands.
Name these short, strong, rotation-hindering bonds discovered by F. A. Cotton. They contain exactly one delta bond between two d orbitals and have been found in bimetallic complexes of chromium, tungsten and molybdenum.
Quadruple bonds form between atoms of these elements found in the d-block of the periodic table. These metals in groups three through twelve often exhibit many oxidation states and are contrasted with the main-group elements.
The bonds of polyatomic molecules formed from main-group elements can be analyzed by creating these constructs based on character tables. Molecules without a central atom can be broken into fragments to find these representations.
quadruple bonds
transition metals [accept transition elements]
SALCs [or symmetry-adapted linear combinations of atomic orbitals; prompt on molecular orbitals]
This scientist coined the term "ghost of competition past" to describe interspecific competition as an evolutionary force that can segregate species even if they do not currently occur sympatrically.
Name this ecologist who conducted experiments on Chthamalus and Balanus barnacles in intertidal zones. He codified Grime's intermediate disturbance hypothesis and, like Janzen, predicted that most seedlings would die off in the dense areas near their parent trees in tropical forests.
Connell's barnacle experiments modeled the formation of these ecological roles, which may be "fundamental" or "realized." Hutchinson described these roles, which do not overlap according to Gause's law of competitive exclusion.
Niche partitioning is often studied using the Caribbean Anolis genus of these animals. The Sceloporus genus of these animals exists in alternative color morphs that illustrate frequency-dependent selection.
Joseph Hurd Connell
ecological niches
lizards [accept Lacertilia; prompt on "Squamata" or "reptiles" or "chordates" or other less specific answers; antiprompt on specific lizards]
Scherbaum et. al used this property to stabilize an incredible coordination complex containing a carbon atom with six bonds.
Name this interaction similar to hydrogen bonding, which causes complexes containing the element with atomic number 79 to aggregate at an equilibrium distance of about three angstroms.
Aurophilicity can be explained by this theory, which also offers reasons for the inert pair effect and mercury being a liquid at STP. This theory uses changes in electron mass to explain the properties of heavy nuclei like gold.
By expanding f orbitals, relativistic effects may also augment the "contraction" named for these elements that along with scandium and yttrium make up the rare earths. They appear above the actinides in the periodic table.
aurophilicity [accept word forms; prompt on "metallophilicity" or word forms; do not accept Gold Bond, which is a foot powder]
theory of special relativity [or relativistic effects]
lanthanides
Nusslein-Volhard and Wieschaus employed this technique in order to demonstrate that bicoid is expressed in the anterior portion of the Drosophila embryo. 
Name this technique, whose chromogenic form was developed to study breast cancer oncogenes. This procedure uses oligonucleotide, DNA or cRNA probes to detect and localize sequences to tissue.
A common in situ hybridization immunolabel is digoxigenin, a steroid hapten derived from this organism. Fab treats a toxin from this organism that inhibits Na+/K+ ATPase, increasing intracellular calcium
An alternative to digoxigenin is labeling with radioactive examples of these things. The MeselsonStahl experiment employed two nitrogen ones, while the C3 and C4 pathways metabolize carbon ones in different ratios.
chromogenic in situ hybridization [or CISH; prompt on partial answer; antiprompt on "FISH" or "fluorescence (or fluorescent) in situ hybridization"]
Digitalis [or foxgloves; accept specific species such as D. purpurea]
radioactive isotopes
Over three thousand of these astronomical objects have been cataloged by the Kepler mission, which detects them by observing a reduction in luminosity during their transit.
Name these objects, which can also be detected by observing radial velocity variations as stars orbit their system's center of mass.
One proposed criterion for habitable exoplanets is that they be comprised primarily of these two elements, the primary cations in the mineral components of the mantle and core of differentiated terrestrial planets in the solar system.
A leading candidate for the energy source that melted terrestrial planetesimals and meteorites in the proto-planetary disk, giving rise to core/mantle differentiation, is the beta decay of this radioactive isotope present in the early solar system with a half-life of approximately 70,000 years.
exoplanets [accept descriptions like "planets outside our solar system"]
silicon [or Si] and iron [or Fe]
Aluminum-26 or 26Al
This result occurs in telescopes mostly because it is far easier and cheaper to make objects that experience it. 
Identify this phenomenon, the positive type of which occurs when light striking near the edge of the lens is bent too much, intersecting the optical axis before reaching the focal length.
Telescopes with parabolic mirrors tend to suffer from this aberration, in which viewed objects not located on the optical axis often appear to have a tail.
This effect occurs because lenses are dispersive, causing different frequencies of light to be focused at slightly different lengths.
spherical aberration [prompt on "aberration"]
comatic aberration
chromatic aberration
Continuous functions whose domain have this property are necessarily equicontinuous.
That fact can be proven because a finite epsilon-net can always be constructed covering a space of this type. A continuous function whose domain has this property also necessarily attains its supremum and infimum.
If you're working in everyone's favorite metric space, Rn, then a set being compact is equivalent to its being closed and bounded, according to this theorem.
This similar theorem states that in Rn, bounded sequences in closed sets necessarily have convergent subsequences. It follows from Heine-Borel and the fact that compact and sequentially compact are equivalent in a metric space.
compactness
Heine-Borel Theorem
Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem
Answer the following about round-robin quizbowl tournaments,
Round-robin quizbowl tournaments can be mathematically represented as the complete directed variety of these entities, consisting of vertices and several edges connecting them.
If everything works out perfectly, so that the higher-seeded team always wins their games, then the digraph will have this property, which for a connected digraph means that there will be precisely one Hamiltonian path. Trees also have this property of having no "loops" in their graph.
The minimum possible value of this quantity for a quizbowl tournament is 3, when a circle of death happens. This value is the length of the shortest cycle in a graph, and is infinite for acyclic graphs.
directed graphs
acyclicity
girth
Name some things involved in the synthesis and characterization of proteins,
The Strecker synthesis forms amino acids by attacking carbonyls with salts of this anion, which reacts with alkyl halides to form nitriles. The Nazis generated the toxic gas Zyklon B by reacting this anion with sulfuric acid.
An important protecting group in peptide synthesis is BOC, which contains an ester derivative of this bulky organic group. This group's steric hindrance allows its alkoxide to act as a strong base but not a nucleophile.
Once polypeptides are synthesized, dynamic light scattering can be used to determine this parameter, defined as the degree of heterogeneity in their component molar masses.
cyanide [or CN minus one]
tert-butyl [or t-Butyl; prompt on "butyl" or "Bu"; accept tert-butoxide]
polydispersity index [accept word forms; accept molecular weight dispersity or MWD]
Norepinephrine initiates the activation of this protein, which may function by acting as a proton ionophore or by causing the futile cycling of carboxylates.
Name this protein that dissipates the proton motive force across the inner mitochondrial membrane, severing the link between oxidation and phosphorylation. Pigs lack this protein, which mediates NST.
Thermogenin is expressed in the mitochondria of this tissue, whose development is regulated by FOXC2 in mice. Babies and hibernating mammals avoid hypothermia with this tissue, which has antiobesity applications.
Most mammals accomplish short-term thermogenesis through this reflexive mechanism, which involves uncoordinated muscle contraction without movement after exposure to a cold environment.
thermogenin [or uncoupling protein 1; or UCP1]
brown fat [or brown adipose tissue; or BAT; prompt on partial answer; accept beige fat]
shivering [or shuddering; accept rigors]
The left-hand side of the time-independent form of this equation is just E times psi.
Name this differential equation, which describes a system's wavefunction. Its namesake also came up with a thought experiment involving a cat in a box.
Because the electron-electron interaction adds a term to the Hamiltonian in this system, its Schrodinger equation has no closed-form solution. This is the smallest neutrally-charged system for which the Bohr model fails.
Harold Jeffreys is sometimes also credited in this approximation to solve linear PDEs, such as the time-independent SchrÃ¶dinger equation. It sets the function equal to the exponential of an asymptotic series denoted phi.
SchrÃ¶dinger Equation
helium atom
JWKB approximation [or Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin-Jeffreys approximation]
These regions are made of flood basalts produced by extinct volcanoes, and a novel explanation for their uneven distribution is a second impact that differentially thickened the crust on one side of the moon.
Name these low-albedo regions on the surface of the moon.
This geochemical component, whose name is an acronym for its constituent elements, is specific to the moon and is thought to be the signature of the giant impact object from which it formed. The basalts that form the lunar maria are rich in it.
The Procellarum KREEP Terrane is demarcated by an abundance of this element, which remains in the melt when magma crystallizes. Aluminum, uranium, and this element are major sources of radioactive heating in terrestrial bodies.
lunar maria [or seas]
KREEP
Thorium [or Th]
M.C. Auld and Paul Grootendorst showed that under the rational choice model of this condition, evidence suggests it explains consumption of oranges and milk.
Name this condition of being compelled physically or mentally into continuing initially pleasurable but ultimately destructive behavior, such as alcoholism.
This Bruce Alexander-led experiment seemed to show drugs themselves are not responsible for addiction. Subjects would seek morphine laced water if kept in cramped cages, but avoided it if they lived in the happy title habitat.
This biostatistician, who died at his Stanford desk in 1963, proposed the disease model of alcoholism and co-founded the Center of Alcohol Studies, which is now at Rutgers, when he was at Yale.
addiction
Rat Park
E(lvin) M(orton) "Bunky" Jellinek
In one of these models, baryon number minus lepton number is a conserved quantity.
Identify these types of models, which would combine the electroweak and strong forces into one single interaction.
The first Grand Unified Theory was put forth in 1974 by Howard Georgi and this physicist. With Salam and Weinberg, this man theorized electromagnetism and the weak force could be unified above a certain temperature.
The Georgi-Glashow model embeds the Standard Model gauge groups in this single gauge group. It has rank 4, and can be thought of as the group of square unitary matrices with determinant one that are of a certain size, under the operation of matrix multiplication.
GUTs [or Grand Unified Theory]
Sheldon Glashow
SU(5) [or special unitary group of degree 5, need all underlined parts of that answer]
In 2007, Hoekstra and Coyne criticized the evo-devo hypothesis that the modularity allowed by these regions is the major driver of evolutionary novelty by attacking the classic example of yellow, which is involved in the patterning of Drosophila wing spots.
Name these non-coding sequences of the control region that bind transcription factors in order to regulate gene expression. The transposon-based ZED vector is used to detect these sequences in zebrafish.
Transcription factors encoded by Hox genes bind to CREs in order to pattern these divisions of the AP axis after their polarity is established. These repeated sections divide the bodies of chordates, arthropods and annelids.
Many of the genes involved in segmentation underwent duplication events, producing multiple copies related by this form of homology. These genes often evolve divergent functions despite their common ancestry.
CREs [or cis-regulatory elements; accept cis-elements or CEs; accept cis-regulatory modules or CRMs accept cis-acting elements; accept enhancers or silencers; prompt on "promoters"]
body segments [accept somites]
paralogs [accept word forms]
The bonding of these complexes resembles that described by the Chatt-Dewar-Duncanson model for ethylene, but they do not contain double bonds.
Name these complexes that catalyze organometallic oxidative addition reactions through side-on, Lshaped bonds created by weak backbonding. Those that add via C-H bonds operate through agostic interactions.
Many sigma complexes contain this molecule as a ligand. This simplest diatomic molecule reduces alkenes to alkanes using a palladium-carbon catalyst and reacts with oxygen to form water in namesake fuel cells.
Hydrogenation is a major part of this molecule's synthetic mechanism, which Gerhard Ertl characterized using adsorption energies. Schrock prepared an as-yet-impractical molybdenum catalyst in order to mimic its natural synthesis.
sigma complexes
molecular dihydrogen gas [or H2]
ammonia [or NH3; accept azane; accept trihyrogen nitride; accept Nitro-Sil]
Smoluchowski's equation for calculating the zeta potential is only valid when this value is much smaller than particle size.
Name this parameter used to measure the double layer, which is composed of the Stern and Gouy- Chapman layers. This distance is proportional to the square root of temperature over ionic strength.
With HÃ¼ckel, Debye developed an equation for calculating the "coefficients" of this parameter in ionic solutions. This parameter is equal to the concentration under ideal conditions.
Warning! Two answers required! Activity coefficients are symbolized by the letter gamma, which is also used to represent the ratio between these two quantities, equal to about five thirds for a monatomic ideal gas. The product of pressure and volume raised to their ratio is constant in an isentropic process.
Debye length [accept screening length; accept Debye radius; accept kappa^-1 or inverse kappa]
thermodynamic activity [accept a; accept fugacity or f which is essentially the same thing; accept gamma or phi]
isobaric specific heat capacity and isochoric specific heat capacity [or specific heat capacity at constant pressure and constant volume; or C sub p bar and C sub v bar; or Cp bar and Cv bar; accept any "molar" variations of the acceptable answers; prompt on partial answers like "specific heat," "heat capacity," "heat capacity ratio" or "ratio of specific heats;" prompt on "adiabatic index"]
This molecule is a more useful fluorescent probe than the other two amino acids with aromatic side chains, phenylalanine and tyrosine.
Name this amino acid that contains an indole side chain and serves as a precursor to auxins, niacin and serotonin. This amino acid is coded for by a repressible operon in E. coli.
The trp operon's attenuator site is located in this region between the promoter-operator and trpE gene. This peptide-coding region contains four sites with complementary base pairs that can form alternate secondary structures.
Under trp-starved conditions, signals from the leader peptide lead to antitermination. Q and N antitermination proteins are expressed by this organism, whose transcription is also regulated by the Cro and C one repressors.
L-tryptophan [or trp operon; or W; accept (2S)-2-amino-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoic acid or 2-Amino-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoic acid; accept Tryptan]
leader peptide-coding region [or trpL]
(entero)bacteriophage lambda [or lambda phage; or coliphage lambda; prompt on "phages" or "bacteriophages"]
Name some useful substances to have in a lab,
Most reactions are carried out in these media, which are the basis for typical extractions. Hexanes and diethyl ether are common nonpolar ones, while DMF, DMSO and THF are polar aprotic ones that speed up SN2 reactions.
The indicator cobalt(II) chloride can be used to visualize the effects of these agents after they have been added to a solution. Common examples include calcium chloride and sulfate salts such as magnesium sulfate.
These insoluble matrices manufactured from styrene and DVB come in a variety of forms with different acidities, including the strongly acidic catalyst Amberlyst. Macroporous examples have high surface areas.
solvents [prompt on liquids]
dessicants [or drying agents; accept any answer with anhydrous or word forms; accept hygroscopic substances; antiprompt on molecular sieves]
ion-exchange resins [accept ion-exchange polymers; prompt on partial answer; accept anion- or cation-exchange resins/polymers]
We like special relativity because it explains stuff that actually happens.
Hafele and Keating tested time dilation in a 1971 experiment involving atomic clocks that were transported on these vehicles.
Another demonstration of time dilation relies on shooting these particles at near-light speed and timing how long before they appear to decay. These particles have the longest known decay time besides the neutron.
The first verification of time dilation was this experiment, which fired hydrogen ions at a detector and measured the change in their wavelength. Its results demonstrated that the Lorentz factor needed to be included in the classical redshift equation.
aboard airplanes
muons
Ives-Stilwell experiment
Like STN, this database allows access to CASREACT, a comprehensive guide to reaction pathways.
Name this ACS database produced by the Chemical Abstracts Service. Tools provided by this database include a catalogue of commercial sources, ChemPort abstracts and the interactive workspace SciPlanner.
Web of Science, another popular database, helpfully allows users to sort searches by how many of these texts have been produced from a paper. In most chemistry papers, they are written in ACS style.
The citations that a journal receives are used to calculate its value for this measure of influence. The Journal of Biological Chemistry seems oddly unimportant when this metric is used instead of PageRank or the Eigenfactor.
SciFinder
bibliographic citations [accept references; prompt on bibliographies]
Thomson Reuters impact factor [or IF]
Algorithms for solving this type of optimization problem include the widely-known simplex method, and polynomial time interior point methods like the ellipsoid algorithm.
Name this type of problem in which the objective function is represented by a dot product, and the set of constraints is represented by an inequality involving a matrix vector product.
Unlike Linear Programming, 0-1 Integer Programming is in this class of optimization and decision problems. Informally, these problems are the ones which are at least as difficult as NP-Complete problems.
In this approximation algorithms technique, a 0-1 Integer Programming problem's solution is approximated by allowing the variables to take on non-integer values, computing the optimal solution of the resulting LP problem, and then transforming that LP solution into a feasible 0-1 solution.
linear programming
NP-Hard
LP relaxation
Answer the following about approximating pendulum motion,
To reduce pendulums to simple harmonic oscillators, one can use the small angle approximation, which states that for small values, sine of theta equals this quantity.
One way of estimating the elliptic integral to get an exact solution involves this function of two inputs. To evaluate it, one repeatedly takes the average of the two inputs and the square root of their products until it converges.
The Kidd-Fogg approximation multiplies the expected period by one over the square root of this trig function. This function of theta can itself be approximated by one minus one-fourth times theta-squared, for small theta.
theta
arithmetic-geometric mean or AGM
cosine of theta/2
One sign of the Tetralogy of Fallot is VSD, the presence of one of these pathways in the ventricular septum.
Name these pathways that bypass normal circulation. Fetal examples of these pathways include the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus, whose persistence after birth leads to a "patent" congenital disorder.
An R-L shunt connects the right atrium and aorta in the four-chambered hearts of these animals, whose left and right aortas meet at the foramen of Panizza. Epinephrine regulates the cog valve controlling their blood flow.
Crocodiles shunt blood while resting underwater in order to bypass the pulmonary circuit and thus avoid taxing these organs. The pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from these organs to the heart.
cardiac shunts
crocodiles [or crocodilians; or Crocodylus; accept eusuchians; accept crocodylomorphs; accept any other specific crocodilians such as American or Chinese alligators, gharials/gavials (or Gavialis) or caimans; accept any other crocodilian genus, which include most things that end in "suchus"; prompt on "reptiles" or "tetrapods" or other non-specific answers]
lungs
Identify aspects of an unknown molecule from information about its proton NMR spectrum,
At around 5.5 ppm, the molecule's spectrum includes a broad singlet peak that disappears when deuterated water is added, indicating the presence of this functional group. Secondary ones can be formed by reducing a ketone with LAH.
The molecule's spectrum shows an intense, messy multiplet peak at around 7.0 to 7.5 ppm. It also has four degrees of unsaturation. How many of those degrees of unsaturation are accounted for by this peak?
Warning! Two answers required! The molecule's proton NMR spectrum shows two other peaks that lead you to identify it as an ethylphenol. What splitting multiplicity did you observe in each of those two peaks?
secondary alcohols [or hydroxyl groups; or OH]
all four [or equivalents like all of them]
triplet and quartet [I guess accept three and four or any answers derived from those two numbers; accept answers in either order]
This phenomenon can occur in a system of n atoms, each of which can be in one of two states, when more than half of them are in the excited state.
Identify this counter-intuitive situation a system can be in. When brought into contact with a more conventional system, heat will always flow from a system in this state to one not in it.
Having a negative temperature is possible because temperature is equal to one over this function of entropy and energy.
Systems with a negative temperature still have more entropy than systems which are at this point. At this point, entropy is minimized, according to the third law of thermodynamics.
having a negative temperature
partial derivative of entropy with respect to energy
absolute zero
Several British fishermen contracted bladder cancer after treating their bait maggots with examples of these compounds like chrysoidine and rhodamine.
Name these soluble coloring agents contrasted with pigments, often synthesized from aromatic amines. Natural varieties include saffron and indigo while synthetic examples include Congo red and methyl orange.
Dyes can be synthesized in this reaction, in which an arene such as phenol or aniline attacks an electrophilic arene cation. The resulting dye links two aromatic rings with a bridge containing two doublebonded nitrogens.
Diazonium groups can be removed from arenes by reacting them with this reducing agent. Breaking Bad fans may find it interesting that this oxyacid is occasionally used to reduce ephedrine in meth manufacture.
dyes [accept any answer with dyes]
diazo coupling [accept any answer with diazonium salts and coupling; prompt on "electrophilic aromatic substitution" or "EAS"]
hypophosphorous acid [or phosphinic acid; or H3PO2 or equivalents; or oxo-λ5- phosphinous acid; or oxo-λ5-phosphanol; or hydroxy-λ5-phosphanone; or hydroxy(oxo)-λ5- phosphane; accept HPA]
Name some things involved in the synthesis and characterization of proteins,
The Strecker synthesis forms amino acids by attacking carbonyls with salts of this anion, which reacts with alkyl halides to form nitriles. The Nazis generated the toxic gas Zyklon B by reacting this anion with sulfuric acid.
An important protecting group in peptide synthesis is BOC, which contains an ester derivative of this bulky organic group. This group's steric hindrance allows its alkoxide to act as a strong base but not a nucleophile.
Once polypeptides are synthesized, dynamic light scattering can be used to determine this parameter, defined as the degree of heterogeneity in their component molar masses.
cyanide [or CN minus one]
tert-butyl [or t-Butyl; prompt on "butyl" or "Bu"; accept tert-butoxide]
polydispersity index [accept word forms; accept molecular weight dispersity or MWD]
Continuous functions whose domain have this property are necessarily equicontinuous.
That fact can be proven because a finite epsilon-net can always be constructed covering a space of this type. A continuous function whose domain has this property also necessarily attains its supremum and infimum.
If you're working in everyone's favorite metric space, Rn, then a set being compact is equivalent to its being closed and bounded, according to this theorem.
This similar theorem states that in Rn, bounded sequences in closed sets necessarily have convergent subsequences. It follows from Heine-Borel and the fact that compact and sequentially compact are equivalent in a metric space.
compactness
Heine-Borel Theorem
Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem
We like special relativity because it explains stuff that actually happens.
Hafele and Keating tested time dilation in a 1971 experiment involving atomic clocks that were transported on these vehicles.
Another demonstration of time dilation relies on shooting these particles at near-light speed and timing how long before they appear to decay. These particles have the longest known decay time besides the neutron.
The first verification of time dilation was this experiment, which fired hydrogen ions at a detector and measured the change in their wavelength. Its results demonstrated that the Lorentz factor needed to be included in the classical redshift equation.
aboard airplanes
muons
Ives-Stilwell experiment
This geological feature is interbedded with limestone thanks to sea level variation during its deposition during the Devonian. 
Name this geological agglomerate of the northern Appalachian, the lowest and earliest component of the Hamilton Group, known for its felsic minerals. Its natural gas reserves have recently given rise to a fracking boom in Pennsylvania.
The Marcellus shale contains this type of fossil, a single enigmatic tooth thought to come from an eellike creature. Since this fossil changes color under different temperature conditions, it is an important geothermometer used in oil exploration.
 Since conodonts can be used to tell what processes formations have been subjected to during their history, they can be used for this general purpose, as can analysis of radiogenic decay and helium escape from uranium-containing rocks.
Marcellus shale or Marcellus formation
 conodonts
dating [accept word forms]
This reaction is usually followed by a reductive workup of DMS. 
Name this reaction that cleaves an alkene to produce two carbonyls. This reaction proceeds by forming a diradical intermediate that reacts in a 1,3 cycloaddition to form a trioxolane.
The first step of ozonolysis forms this cyclic precursor to the Criegee intermediate by adding ozone across a carbon-carbon double bond. Unlike those of the more stable ozonide, all of its oxygen atoms are adjacent on the ring.
A modification of ozonolysis with a hydrogen peroxide workup can form this functional group. This functional group reacts with an alcohol to produce an ester under acidic conditions.
 ozonolysis
 molozonide [or 1,2,3-trioxolane]
carboxylic acids [accept carboxylates; prompt on "acids"] 
 In this tissue, the activity of an enzyme with a magnesium cofactor is inhibited by caldesmon, whose h-isoform is a useful marker for stromal sarcoma and leiomyosarcoma. 
Name this tissue that can be visualized by staining calponin or transgelin. Dephosphorylation by MLCP does not prevent this tissue from remaining in the "latch state" after phosphorylation by MLCK.
Dephosphorylation can cause smooth muscle to enter the latch state during the force-generating cycles named for these connections between actin filaments and globular myosin heads. They generate power strokes.
Binding during the cross-bridge cycle is driven by the exergonic hydrolysis of this molecule, which is coupled to many cellular reactions. Along with NADH and pyruvate, this molecule is the major product of glycolysis.
smooth muscle tissue [prompt on involuntary muscle tissue]
 cross-bridges
ATP [or adenoside-five prime-triphosphate; accept [(2''R'',3''S'',4''R'',5''R'')-5-(6- aminopurin-9-yl)-3,4-dihydroxyoxolan-2-yl]methyl(hydroxyphosphonooxyphosphoryl)hydrogen phosphate]
Gulland's formula calculates this value from virgin stock biomass and natural mortality, while the Schaefer model finds it in terms of catch effort.
Name this point that occurs when a population is at half the carrying capacity. It equals the largest long-term average harvest that can be taken without impairing growth and can also be calculated using the Fox model.
Maximum sustainable yield is often used to analyze the harvest of this biological resource. Some cartilaginous species of them have electroreceptors called ampullae of Lorenzini, while ray-finned examples have swim bladders.
Marine conservation groups use the mean value of this property to analyze the composition of catches. In marine ecosystems, a greater amount of biomass exists at higher ones because of high phytoplankton turnover rates.
MSY [or maximum sustainable yield]
fisheries [antiprompt on specific fish; prompt on "chordates" or "vertebrates" or other less specific answers]
mean trophic level [or MTL; accept descriptive answers like position in food web/chain]
According to the mutual exclusion rule, the vibrations of centrosymmetric molecules cannot be active in both this technique and one that transforms according to the polarizability operator.
Name this technique whose strongest signal appears around 1720 inverse centimeters. Transitions in this technique are allowed if normal modes transform as x, y or z, the same symmetry as the electric dipole operator.
Water, which has two IR-active stretching modes, belongs to this point group. Molecules in this common point group have a proper rotation axis and two vertical mirror planes, with no horizontal mirror planes.
C2v molecules do not have an improper rotation axis, which is symbolized by this letter. This letter is also used to symbolize the simplest type of atomic orbital, which is spherical.
IR spectroscopy [or infrared spectroscopy; prompt on absorption spectroscopy]
C2v [or C sub 2v]
S
The developer of this approach wanted a better way to explain Wheeler absorber theory.
Identify this quantum formalism that extends the Wiener integral, and assigns a weight to each contributing element proportional to the exponential of i times the action over h-bar.
The path integral can be reformulated to closely resemble this function from statistical mechanics, often symbolized Z. It equals the sum over all microstates of the Boltzmann factor.
The path integral formulation was developed by this Caltech physicist, whose namesake diagrams are used to illustrate interactions between subatomic particles.
path integral formulation
canonical partition function
Richard (Phillips) Feynman
One particularly amusing way to use this result is to measure a dead body's temperature, then do so again a few hours later, in order to figure out how long it's been dead.
Identify this law, which states the time-derivative of energy is equal to h times the difference between two temperatures.
Most of the cooling of an object is caused by this type of heat transfer via the bulk motion of fluids.
This man's namesake convection cells alternate between clockwise and counter-clockwise rotation and form when a layer of fluid is heated from below. That setup is named for him and Rayleigh.
Newton's law of cooling
convection [or word forms]
Henri (Claude) BÃ©nard
One result of this theorem is that the number of n-color rotationally distinct colorings of a p-faced platonic solid is a polynomial in n of degree p.
Identify this combinatorial identity, which says the total number of results is equal to the average number of fixed points under the action of a certain group. It was originally proven by Frobenius.
Burnside's lemma gives the number of these entities, the set of elements to which an element can be moved to by group actions. This thing is paired with stabilizers in the name of a theorem that can be used to derive Burnside's lemma.
Using Burnside's lemma is overkill when the group in question consists of these actions, which simply re-order n elements in some fashion. For those n elements, there are n-factorial of them.
Burnside's lemma [also accept Burnside's Counting Theorem, Cauchy-Frobenius Lemma, the orbit-counting theorem, or the lemma that is not Burnside's]
orbits
permutations
These entities are formed because the motion they cause in their medium creates an induced EMF, which produces further mechanical effects.
Identify these magnetohydrodynamic waves whose Swedish discoverer found that their speed is equal to magnetic field strength divided by the square root of mu-nought times density.
AlfvÃ©n waves can occur in this medium. This fourth state of matter is basically highly ionized gas
This plasma phenomenon manifests itself as the movement of charge through the ionosphere near the poles, causing the Aurora Borealis. Its constituent charged particles move along the geomagnetic field lines.
AlfvÃ©n waves
plasma
Birkeland currents
One common example of this proof technique in combinatorics establishes a lower bound for Ramsey numbers by considering random colorings of complete graphs.
Name this nonconstructive proof technique which can be used to show an object with a given property exists by, for example, considering the expectation of an associated indicator random variable.
This eccentric Hungarian mathematician was a pioneer of the probabilistic method. He also famously collaborated with hundreds of other mathematicians and popularized the idea of "proofs from the book."
This useful result in probability theory says that the probability of at least one event in a collection is no greater than the sum of their individual probabilities.
probabilistic method
Paul Erdos
 union bound [or Boole's Inequality]
Donald Cram successfully observed this molecule by photochemically degrading alpha-pyrone inside a hemicarcerand.
Name this molecule that rapidly dimerizes by acting as both a diene and dienophile in the Diels-Alder reaction at temperatures as low as 35 K. This unstable molecule is the simplest [n]-annulene.
Cyclobutadiene is known for possessing this property, which can be identified by the presence of nonbonding electrons on Frost circles. Cyclooctatetraene avoids this property as it takes on a non-planar tub conformation.
Antiaromatic molecules have 4n of these electrons, which are named for and contained in bonds formed from p orbitals. These electrons are delocalized in stabilized conjugated systems of double bonds.
1,3-cyclobutadiene [accept [4]-Annulene; accept CBD; accept C4H4]
antiaromaticity [accept word forms; do not accept "aromaticity"]
pi electrons [accept pi bonds]
Drosophila with this phenotype are unaffected by otherwise-embryonic lethal mutations in the MSL proteins MOF and MLE. 
Name this phenotype possessed by Drosophila that can form an active, dimeric transcription factor because they possess sis-A and sis-B in excess of deadpan. Flies with this phenotype produce the proteins TRA and SXL.
Drosophila sex determination is regulated by "alternative" forms of this process, which can code for multiple protein products by skipping exons. This post-transcriptional process modifies mRNA via a lariat created by snRNPs (SNURPS).
The TRA protein accomplishes dosage compensation by binding to dsx and allowing this process to occur at a site following exon 4. This process is initiated by a transferase after CPSF binds to the sequence AAUAAA.
female Drosophila [accept equivalents]
alternative splicing [accept word forms]
polyadenylation [or adding a poly(A) tail; or adding a sequence of adenine (or adenosine) repeats; accept any equivalents; prompt on "cleavage"; prompt on any partial answer about adenine or adenosine]
Blas Cabrera's detector registered the existence of one of these things on Valentine's Day 1982, but no subsequent experiments found them. 
Identify these hypothesized entities, whose existence would mean the B-field does not necessarily have zero divergence.
This physicist's work on magnetic monopoles showed that their existence was not inconsistent with Maxwell's equations, if his namesake string connects two oppositely charged monopoles. He also names a relativistic equation describing spin one-half particles.
By considering an electron traveling around in a circle on a Dirac string, Dirac proved that the existence of a magnetic monopole would imply this result, which has been generally accepted since a 1909 experiment.
magnetic monopoles
Paul Dirac
quantization of electric charge [accept equivalents]
This scientist coined the term "ghost of competition past" to describe interspecific competition as an evolutionary force that can segregate species even if they do not currently occur sympatrically.
Name this ecologist who conducted experiments on Chthamalus and Balanus barnacles in intertidal zones. He codified Grime's intermediate disturbance hypothesis and, like Janzen, predicted that most seedlings would die off in the dense areas near their parent trees in tropical forests.
Connell's barnacle experiments modeled the formation of these ecological roles, which may be "fundamental" or "realized." Hutchinson described these roles, which do not overlap according to Gause's law of competitive exclusion.
Niche partitioning is often studied using the Caribbean Anolis genus of these animals. The Sceloporus genus of these animals exists in alternative color morphs that illustrate frequency-dependent selection.
Joseph Hurd Connell
ecological niches
lizards [accept Lacertilia; prompt on "Squamata" or "reptiles" or "chordates" or other less specific answers; antiprompt on specific lizards]
This long-lasting event occurred in North America just prior to the Holocene and was contemporaneous with the Pinedale Glaciation, and it is responsible for the creation of Cape Cod and other "outer lands."
Name this climatic event, at whose end a series of "dells" or gorges was formed by the catastrophic failure of a natural dam and subsequent instantaneous emptying of a massive lake in its namesake state.
This ice sheet covered a large chunk of eastern North America during the Wisconsin glaciation. It is responsible for the presence of diamonds in Indiana, and the volcanic tubes where the diamonds originated remain undiscovered deep in the Canadian shield.
This geologic process equilibrates the height of continental crust when the weight it bears changes, such as during glacial retreat. It is the reason for raised beaches on the west coast of Scotland and the imminent demise of the Gulf of Bothnia.
Wisconsin glaciation or Wisconsinan Ice Age [accept word forms; prompt on partial answer, including "Last Ice Age" or "most recent ice age"]
Laurentide or Laurentian ice sheet
isostasy [accept word forms]
Answer the following about the magnetic vector potential,
The magnetic vector potential is found in a 4-vector with this other quantity. It is often denoted by phi, and for a single point charge Q is equal to kQ over R.
This condition is satisfied when the divergence of the magnetic vector potential equals negative one over c-squared times the time derivative of electric potential. It makes Maxwell's equations invariant under boosts.
In the Aharonov-Bohm effect, the magnetic vector potential causes a charged particle's wavefunction to acquire this quantity. In general, it can be imparted to a system by subjecting it to a cyclic adiabatic process.
electric potential (prompt on voltage or emf or electromotive force)
Lorenz gauge condition (accept Lorentz gauge; prompt on partial answer)
geometric phase or Pancharatnam-Berry phase or Pancharatnam phase (prompt on phase or phase shift)
Everyone in quizbowl knows what the Lotka-Volterra equations are, but how deep is your knowledge of ecological field methods?
Ecologists usually catch wild birds and bats with these large traps containing loose nylon pockets that prevent injury to organisms. While time-consuming to set up, they allow easy observation and banding of common species.
Mist nets trap organisms for mark-recapture, a technique whose estimates of population size have been applied to written records in this field. SIR models describe population interactions in this field, which is founded on Hill's criteria of causality.
The Shannon-Wiener and Simpson indices are used to estimate this trait, whose alpha form refers to the number of species in an area. The loss of this trait, especially in "hotspots," is the major focus of conservation biology.
mist nets [accept word forms; accept dho-gazza; prompt on "nets" or synonyms; prompt on "trammels"]
epidemiology [prompt on medicine or medical science]
biodiversity [accept biological diversity; accept species, genetic, habitat or ecosystem diversity; accept species richness]
Upregulating vasopressin induces this behavior in normally polygynous male voles by facilitating pair bonding.
Name this classic alternative male strategy practiced by swans, albatrosses and many humans. This mating system involves one male mating with one female.
In this other alternative male strategy, rare morphs mimic females in order to get close and mate with them without dominant males noticing. They are common in lekking species like ruffed grouse.
Marlene Zuk documented selection for a silent morph in a Hawaiian species of these animals in response to a parasitoid that kills calling males. These arthropods respond to temperature according to Dolbear's Law.
serial monogamy
sneaker males [accept fader males; accept streaker males; do not accept satellite males]
true crickets [or Gryllidae; accept specific crickets; prompt on "orthopterans" or "insects" or other less specific answers; do not accept grasshoppers, weta or locusts]
One example of these events is marked by the replacement of V-shaped graptolites with tubular ones.
Name this type of geohistorical event, another one of which is marked by an anomalous abundance of iridium. One explanation for some of them popular on Wikipedia is gamma ray bursts directed at the earth.
Mass extinctions are evidence in favor of this philosophy of geological history supported by Georges Cuvier and Immanuel Velikovsky. It holds that earth's history is a succession of static "worlds" separated by namesake events.
The idea that earth is currently undergoing a mass extinction is one argument in favor of the concept of the "anthropocene." Another is that entirely new, diverse ocean ecoystems have been catalogued living on this material.
Mass Extinction Events
catastrophism [do NOT accept "catastrophe theory"]
plastic
The calculus of variations was developed partially to help solve this problem.
Identify this problem from physics, which asks what curve will fastest transport a mass only acted on by gravity.
The solution to the brachistochrone problem is this curve, which can be generated by tracking the motion of a point on the circumference of a rolling circle. An ideal time-keeping pendulum would swing in this path.
The calculus of variations can also be used to solve this class of second-order linear ODEs, which can be recast as eigenvalue problems for self-adjoint operators. Regular examples have an infinite, ordered spectrum of real eigenvalues.
brachistochrone problem [do not accept tautochrone problem]
cycloid
Sturm-Liouville equations or problems or theory
The sickle-cell genotype is characterized by one of these mutations that replaces glutamic acid with valine in the HGB gene that codes for hemoglobin's beta globin subunit.
Name these single-base mutations that can classified as either transitions or transversions or as synonymous, missense or nonsense. In Neurospora, these mutations are repeatedly induced via the RIP process.
Some p53 point mutations are examples of this class of mutations that directly interfere with wild-type gene products, typically by forming inactive dimers. Marfan syndrome is caused by one in the gene for fibrillin-1.
Dominant negative mutations cannot be screened in this test, which crosses two homozygous recessive mutant strains with the same phenotype. If the cross produces a wild-type phenotype, the mutations are on different genes.
point mutations
dominant negative mutations [or antimorphic mutations; I guess prompt on "dominant" mutations]
complementation test [accept word forms; accept cis-trans test]
Answer the following about object-oriented design,
In object oriented languages like Java, these are the things that are instantiated to create objects via their constructors. This word also appears as the file extension for Java bytecode.
In this sometimes-criticized design pattern, the instantiation of a particular class is limited to one object. This pattern takes its name from a term in mathematics denoting a set with only one element.
In this design pattern, most commonly used in designing user interfaces, the three namesake components correspond to the underlying representation, the output the user sees, and the part that accepts input.
class
singleton
MVC or Model View Controller
The formula for this force uses the same constant as the Larmor formula for power radiated by a point charge.
Identify this force exerted on a charged particle by the radiation it emits as it accelerates. One of its two namesakes also derived some transformations relevant to special relativity.
The magnitude of the Abraham-Lorentz force is proportional to this vector quantity, the time derivative of an object's acceleration.
The displacement of an object with constant jerk equals velocity times time plus one-half acceleration times time-squared plus this constant times jerk times time-cubed.
Abraham-Lorentz force [prompt on radiation reaction force]
jerk
one-sixth
One of these proteins recruits COPI (COP ONE) and clathrin coat proteins to vesicles while another is activated by Sos via the adaptor protein Grb2.
Name these proteins of the plasma membrane's inner leaflet that are kept in their inactive form by GDIs. Farnesyltransferase targets the CAAX motif of these proteins, which include the H-, N- and Kisoforms.
Warning! Two answers required. Ras is involved in the activation of MAP kinases, which phosphorylate proteins at the residues of these two amino acids. O-linked glycosylation occurs at their side chains.
The serine/threonine kinase PKA is activated by this second messenger, whose synthesis is catalyzed by adenylyl cyclase. This molecule binds to CAP to activate the lac operon.
Ras superfamily of proteins [antiprompt on "ARFs" or "ADP ribosylation factors"; prompt on small monomeric "G-proteins" or small monomeric "GTPases" or small monomeric "GTP-binding proteins" or anything with the letter "G" really; antiprompt on specific Ras proteins (which mostly start with Ra-)]
serine [or Ser; or S; or 2-amino-3-hydroxypropanoic acid] and threonine [or Thr; or T; or 2-amino-3-hydroxybutanoic acid]
cyclic AMP [or cAMP; or 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate; or C10H12N5O6P or equivalents]
The Coppersmith-Winograd algorithm and Strassen's algorithm are two improvements to the naive big-O of n cubed algorithm for this operation. 
Name this operation which, as defined on an n by m matrix and an m by p matrix, returns an n by p matrix.
Strassen's algorithm is able to achieve a better runtime than the naive divide-and-conquer approach to matrix multiplication because each step only generates this many recursive calls - one fewer than the naive approach.
The best-known lower bound for matrix multiplication is that it is big omega of this function of n. This is also the naive lower bound for matrix multiplication since it is the amount of time required to read the entire input.
matrix multiplication
7
n2 ( "n squared" ) [also accept any constant multiplied by n squared]
The abundance of these highly plastic structures can be increased by fragile X syndrome, which causes a deficiency of FMRP, the protein that regulates their development from filopodia. 
Name these connective protrusions found in pyramidal neurons and the striatum. They contain specialized synaptopodin-dependent ER and are supported by F-actin and resistance necks that compartmentalize calcium.
Sodium enters dendritic spines that receive these post-synaptic potentials. Neurotransmitters like glutamate that increase the likelihood of generating an action potential are described by this adjective, contrasted with inhibitory.
Glutamate's binding to the heterodimeric G protein-coupled receptor T1R1/T1R3 initiates the gustatory signal transduction pathway of this basic taste. This taste is potentiated by the ribonucleotides IMP and GMP.
dendritic spine heads [prompt on partial answer]
excitatory [accept word forms]
 umami
 According to one model, these proteins became widespread due to their utility in catalyzing anabolic reactions in hydrothermal vents.
Name these proteins that include HiPIP electron shuttles. The scaffold IscU and an enzyme that converts cysteine to alanine are required for the assembly of these proteins, which often contain FCL motifs.
Iron is also found in this thermodynamically unstable mineral that is formed by the anaerobic corrosion of iron in the hydrogen-evolving Schikorr reaction. This mixed-valence compound coats steel in the "bluing" process.
In an alternative to the magnetite model of magnetoception, these molecules are formed from cryptochromes. Fishhook arrows represent the flow of unpaired electrons in reactions of these molecules.
iron-sulfur proteins/clusters [or Fe-S proteins/clusters; antiprompt on specific iron-sulfur proteins such as Rieske proteins or the infamous aconitase]
magnetite [or Fe3O4 or equivalents; or ferrous-ferric oxide; or iron(II, III) oxide; or Fe(II, III) oxide; prompt on iron oxides; do not accept Magnemite, which is a PokÃ©mon]
free radicals
This reaction adds a hydroxyl group to the more substituted carbon atom of an alkene and proceeds through an intermediate similar to a bromonium ion.
Name this two-step electrophilic addition reaction that forms an alcohol by reacting an alkene with a certain acetate salt that is subsequently removed by sodium borohydride.
Oxymercuration-demercuration is an anti-addition, contrasted with syn. One syn-addition forms diols by reacting double bonds with the tetroxide of this densest element, a third-row transition metal.
Mercuric salts are also useful for removing this acid-stable protecting group from a carbonyl. Aldehydes can be deprotonated and react with electrophiles as "masked acyl anions" after being converted to this group, which can be reduced to an alkane using Raney nickel.
oxymercuration-demercuration [accept oxymercuration-reduction; prompt on partial answer]
osmium [or Os]
dithioacetals [accept dithianes or dithiolanes or dithioketals]
Name the following from computability theory and the theory of formal languages
According to a thesis attributed to their namesake and Church, the set of languages accepted by these powerful automata captures the intuitive notion of computability.
Variants of this result apply to languages accepted by weaker automata. One variant says that, for a given DFA, any sufficiently long accepted string has sections that can be removed or repeated an arbitrary number of times with the result still being accepted.
In describing regular expressions, this man's namesake star operator denotes repeating a string 0 or more times. He also names a pair of recursion theorems in computability theory concerning semantically fixed points of computable functions.
Turing Machine
Pumping Lemma
Stephen Kleene
Cystic fibrosis affects an unusual eukaryotic ABC-class channel that primarily transports this ion, which names a type of mucus-secreting cell in freshwater fish gills.
Name this anion that is exchanged with bicarbonate in erythrocytes. The elasmobranch rectal gland allows this anion to enter epithelial cells through the NKCC, which transports it with potassium and sodium.
Fish chloride cells contain sugars that test positive in assays with peanut agglutinin, whose binding is inhibited by these ganglioside glycans. Flu viruses use hemagglutinin to attach to these selectin-binding acids.
Fish osmoregulatory cells are radically remodeled during smolting, which is partially mediated by this immunosuppressive molecule. This molecule's synthesis in the zona fasciculata via 11 beta-hydroxylase is stimulated by ACTH.
chloride [or Cl minus; I guess accept chlorine]
sialic acids [accept N-acetylneuraminic acid or (4S,5R,6R,7S,8R)-5-amino-4,6,7,8,9- pentahydroxy-2-oxo-nonanoic acid or anything with a prefix in front of "neuraminic acid"; accept NANA or Neu5Ac]
cortisol [or hydrocortisone; or (11-beta)-11,17,21-trihydroxypregn-4-ene-3,20-dione; accept corticosterone or (11-beta)- 11, 21- dihydroxypregn- 4- ene- 3, 20- dione which is essentially the same as cortisol in all respects; prompt on "glucocorticoids" or "GCs"; prompt on "steroids" or "hormones"]
Above a certain temperature, these materials will behave paramagnetically.
Identify these materials, which will be magnetized by an external field, then de-magnetize back to zero in a very slow, non-exponential manner due to frustration by ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic regions spread throughout. Those regions are stochastically disordered, unlike similarly named "ices."
This quantum mechanical result states that the wavefunction of integer-spin particles remains the same when two of them are swapped or rotated 360 degrees, but that the same operations generates a minus sign for particles of half-integer spin.
This bonus has been all about spin, which can be thought of as this quantity for small particles. In classical mechanics, it is equal to the moment of inertia times the angular velocity.
spin glasses [do NOT accept or prompt on "spin ice"]
spin-statistics theorem [prompt on "Pauli's theorem"]
angular momentum [do NOT accept or prompt on "momentum"]
This rock is characterized by alternating bands of mafic and felsic constituents, which form in the protolith thanks to extreme shearing.
Name this metamorphic rock, which can form from either igneous or sedimentary precursors. The "Lewisian" variety is the basement rock of what remains of the former Laurentian plate.
Gneiss is often the basement rock in these regions associated with convergent boundaries, in which a continental plate compresses and overturns lower strata. The same deformation often produces folds.
The layers in gneiss are produced by this process, which occurs in metamorphic rocks characterized by planar "leaf-like" sheets. Rising granite batholiths can undergo a similarly named process and develop namesake fractures as they expand, such as Half Dome in Yosemite.
gneiss
thrust belt or thrust fault [accept reverse fault]
foliation [accept word forms; accept exfoliation dome or fracture or joint or word forms]
This framework silicate crystallizes at the confluence of the continuous and discontinuous branches of Bowen's reaction series. For 10 points each:
Name this mineral.
Orthoclase can form from continuous-branch plagioclase. The continuum of plagioclase is defined by relative abundance of these two elements, one of which is enriched at high temperature and the other at low temperature.
Plagioclase and orthoclase are at the same positions on Bowen's reaction series and the Goldich dissolution series, which gives relative rates of this phenomenon. This is defined as the in situ breakdown of minerals by the environment.
orthoclase
calcium and sodium [or Ca and Na]
weathering
Mittelschmirz is a sharp pain associated with this event, which typically occurs on day 14 of a standard endometrial cycle. For 10 points each:
Name this process that results in the formation of the corpus luteum, which is partly triggered by a spike in LH.
During pregnancy, the corpus luteum is maintained by the secretion of this hormone from the placenta. This hormone is detected by home pregnancy tests. Google searches for it mostly turn up pages for a bizarre fad diet though.
If ovulation doesn't end in a pregnancy, the corpus luteum degrades into this structure composed primarily of fibrous scar tissue.
ovulation
human chorionic gonadotrophin [or hCG]
corpus albicans
They represent some 1 to 2% of the human genome, and contain the information for protein coding. For 10 points each: 
These are the sequences that remain in mRNA following splicing.
This project from the National Human Genome Research Institute released findings in 2012 concluding that 75% of the genome is transcribed at some point in some cells. It claims that the parts that aren't made of exons harbor regions that regulate the function and level of expression of exons.
One of the ENCODE papers focused on how the functional form of these variations is linked to disease. These segments are widely used to in DNA fingerprinting and consist of just one base pair being changed in the DNA.
exons 
ENCODE [or Encyclopedia of DNA Elements]
SNPs [pronounced like snips; or single nucleotide polymorphisms]
This process is commonly described by isotherms, such as the ones named for Henry and Langmuir. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which molecules or particles bind to a surface.
This term refers to the type of adsorption in which bonds form between the surface and the adsorbate. It is distinguished from a type of adsorption involving van der Waals forces. This process is often used to generate self-assembled monolayers.
This triply eponymous isotherm improves on the Langmuir isotherm because it allows for the possibility of multilayers, although it assumes no interaction between layers.
adsorption [accept word forms]
chemisorption [accept word forms]
BET isotherm [or Brunauer-Emmett-Teller isotherm]
CP symmetry violation was first detected by Cronin and Fitch in 1964. For 10 points each:
The C is CP symmetry is charge conjugation, an operation which changes a particle into this.
The P in CP, on the other hand, stands for this. This operation is equivalent to inverting one of the spatial axes of a system, changing its handedness.
According to the standard model, CP symmetry means that at least one of two matrices is complex rather than real. Name either. Their elements are functions of angles and they encode the strength of flavor-changing weak interactions for the two different families of particles subject to such interactions.
its antiparticle [or antimatter]
parity
quark mixing matrix [accept Cabibbo–Kobayashi–Maskawa matrix; prompt on V] OR lepton mixing matrix [or neutrino mixing matrix; accept Pontecorvo–Maki–Nakagawa–Sakata matrix; prompt on U]
Basaltic lava can do some amazing things. For 10 points each:
This very common basaltic lava formation results from subaqueous extrusions, i.e. the eruption of lava under water.
On the other hand, when lava or magma contacts wet sediment, this form of sedimentary rock containing glassy, dark basaltic granules can form.
These systems are in some ways converse to peprites: they form when vesicles or voids in basaltic lava are backfilled with a zeolite, quartz, or a similar material, which often fills concentrically. They are named for the shape of the intrusion, rather than its color.
pillow lava [or hyaloclastite]
peprites
amygdules
These structures are named for a synthetic amino acid which interacts as a specific agonist to them, in contrast to the neurotransmitter that normally acts on them. For 10 points each:
Name these heterotetrameric non-specific cation channels that are blocked by extracellular magnesium until a voltage is applied. They are antagonized by ketamine and phencyclidine among other compounds.
Though NMDARs also require co-activation by either D-serine or glycine, they are primarily considered a receptor for this excitatory neurotransmitter. Other receptors for this molecule include AMPA receptors and kainate receptors.
In this process, persistent activation of NMDARs causes the activation of CaMKII and PKC which phosphorylate AMPA receptors. Later gene expression and protein synthesis in this process leads to morphological changes at the synapse and a long-lived boost in transmission between two neurons.
NMDA Receptor [or NMDAR (N-methyl-D-aspartate)]
glutamate [or glutamic Acid]
Long-Term Potentiation [or LTP]
LIGO uses an interferometer in an attempt to detect waves that are coherent states of these particles. For 10 points each:
Name these hypothetical, self-adjoint spin-2 bosons that mediate the weakest force according to unified field theories.
Gravitons are spin-2 tensor bosons as they are sourced by this quantity. The components of this rank-2 tensor give the flux of each component of 4-momentum in each direction.
Gravity wave interferometers like LIGO use these as their detector apparatus. Named for their creator, these systems consist of pairs of massive, supercooled and isolated aluminum cylinders. When separated, their differential vibrations should evince gravity waves if any exist.
gravitons [prompt on G]
the stress-energy tensor [prompt on T]
Weber bars [prompt on gravitational wave antenna]
Putting this element's oxide in an electric furnace generates its carbide, which is used in tank armor. For 10 points each:
Name this electron-deficient element with atomic number 5. A compound containing this element bonded to four hydride ions is commonly used as a reducing element.
10 boron atoms form a particularly poisonous example of these compounds, which generally speaking are between the size of a bulk solid and a molecule. FA Cotton coined this term to describe compounds with lots of metal-metal bonds.
This set of rules is used to describe the configuration of cluster compounds containing boron. It labels compounds as closo-, nido-, arachno-, or hypho- based on the polyhedral arrangement.
boron
cluster compounds
Wade's rules [or Wade/Mingos rules; or Polyhedral Skeletal Electron Pair theory]
This is simply the transport of a quantity through a fluid by the motion of the fluid itself. For 10 points each:
Name this fluid behavior which is non-diffusive, unlike the related behavior of convection.
The advection operator or advective derivative is this quantity dotted into the gradient. The advection operator operating on this quantity gives the convective acceleration of the Navier-Stokes equation
Adding the advective derivative to the time partial derivative yields the total time derivative named for this version of fluid mechanics, as contrasted with the Eulerian version. In this description, a mapping function gives the state of a given fluid element at a later time as a function of its initial state.
advection
the fluid velocity [prompt on v or u]
Lagrangian fluid mechanics 
With HÃ¼ckel, this name describes an alternative approach to the Woodward-Hoffmann rules.
Name this form of aromaticity where the pi orbitals have an odd number of out-of-phase overlaps. In 2003, Herges reported the first stable compound with this configuration.
Compounds with MÃ¶bius aromaticity are systems with this pi electrons according to this formula, which is 2 less than for an aromatic compound. For molecules with planar topology, this number of pi electrons would make it antiaromatic.
A magnetic field that is perpendicular to an aromatic compound will induce a current in the aromatic ring. Therefore, one can tell if a compound is aromatic by using this method, which averages the diagonal elements of the magnetic shielding tensor. If the answer is negative, the compound is aromatic.
MÃ¶bius aromaticity
4n
nucleus-independent chemical shifts [or NICS]
Winter hexagon-member Rigil is this type of binary system. Unlike in an optical binary, two stars cannot be seen; unlike in an eclipsing binary, the light intensity does not noticeably vary; unlike in an astrometric binary, the system is not visibly wobbling. For 10 points each:
Name this class of binary star system in which the existence of a second star can be deduced only from periodically changing emission lines.
The periodic changes in spectroscopic emission lines are due to this effect, which manifests as the star's velocity relative to the observer changes orientation and magnitude during its orbit.
Eclipsing binaries that are also spectroscopic can be used as these valuable astronomical entities. Objects known as this have a known, calibrated distance-magnitude relationship.
spectroscopic binaries
the Doppler effect [or Doppler shift]
standard candle
Absorption of photons by the 11-cis retinal in rhodopsin activates this protein. For 10 points each:
Name this protein that helps the retina convert light into electric signals by activating a phosphodiesterase that degrades a second messenger, decreasing the causing the hyperpolarization of the membrane potential.
Transducin is a heterotrimeric one of these proteins, which have a namesake type of coupled receptors. These proteins, including the Ras subfamily, hydrolyze GTP.
One particular subunit of G proteins, the Gq subfamily, activates this enzyme, which cleaves PIP2 in the pathway that produces diacylglycerol and IP3.
transducin
Transducin is a heterotrimeric one of these proteins, which have a namesake type of coupled receptors. These proteins, including the Ras subfamily, hydrolyze GTP.
PLC [or phospholipase C]
Goldstone bosons are excitations of a field whose corresponding generators have undergone this process. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which a continuous transformation ceases to be invariant for a system, even though the system's Lagrangian continues to be invariant under the transformation.
According to the Mermin-Wagner theorem, spontaneous symmetry breaking can only occur for short-range interactions in a system with this property.
Second-order phase transitions exhibit spontaneous symmetry breaking, as discovered by this Soviet scientist in his mean-field treatment of phase transitions, which led to the discovery of universality.
spontaneous symmetry breaking [prompt on symmetry breaking; do not accept "explicit symmetry breaking"]
at least 3-dimensional [accept equivalents]
Lev Davidovich Landau
The activity of this pathway is suppressed by the drug metformin, which indirectly downregulates enzymes such as PEPCK in this process. For 10 points each:
Name this metabolic pathway largely localized to the liver that allows for the production of a particular carbohydrate from non-carbohydrate precursors such as pyruvate.
Glucose-6-phosphatase, the last enzyme in the gluconeogenesis pathway, essentially does the reverse of this first enzyme in glycolysis, which converts glucose to glucose-6-phosphate.
The presence of differing enzymes in gluconeogenesis and glycolysis, and the differential regulation thereof, help prevent this situation where opposing metabolic processes run simultaneously to cancel out useful work, only producing heat by the net hydrolysis of ATP.
gluconeogenesis [or GNG]
hexokinase
futile cycle or substrate cycle
These states are marked with a double dagger, and their structure in relation to the free energy of the reaction is described by Hammond's postulate. For 10 points each:
Name these states that correspond to saddle points on a potential energy surface and are found at the highest-energy point on a reaction coordinate diagram.
These are visualizations of potential energy surfaces for reactions with simultaneous changes in two bonds. In them, the transition state moves along the central diagonal according to the change in free energy in the reaction pathway of interest, and perpendicular to the diagonal as a function of the energy changes in competing pathways.
One consequence of transition-state theory is this equation, which gives the relationship between Gibbs free energy and reaction rate.
 transition states [or activated complex]
More O'Ferrall-Jencks plots (either name is acceptable)
Eyring-Polanyi equation (either name is acceptable)
These singularities can be gotten rid of by regularization for theories that are perturbative at small distances or high energies; that process is known as completion. For 10 points each:
Name this situation in which an integral representing a physical quantity seems to go to infinity. The original one occurs in the low-wavelength limit of the Rayleigh-Jeans law and motivated the development of quantum mechanics.
A general framework for removing divergences is the method of this group, which encodes the scale invariance of a system. According to the namesake equation of this group, the partial of the g-parameter with respect to the log of the energy scale is equal to the beta function.
Unlike ultraviolet divergences, infrared divergences occur only in theories gauged by particles with this property, which makes sense when one considers that infrared divergences result from very long-distance interactions.
ultraviolet divergences [grudgingly accept ultraviolet catastrophe; prompt on divergence]
 renormalization group
massless [accept close equivalents; prompt on moving at the speed of light or close equivalents]
This process can only occur in competent bacteria. For 10 points each:
Name this genetic process in which a cell uptakes genetic material directly from its environment. Griffith was the first to observe it in his experiment with pneumococcae.
In plants, transformation is often performed using the tumefaciens species of this Gram-negative genus of bacteria, which causes crown-gall disease. For transformation to occur, bacteria in this genus must be equipped with a modified Ti or Ri plasmid.
Transformation may also be promoted using this method, in which the application of an electric field to a cell makes the plasma membrane more conductive and more capable of uptaking genetic material from its surroundings.
transformation
Agrobacterium
electroporation [or electropermeabilization; or word forms]
These equations relate three tensors to one another, and each tensor has ten independent components. For 10 points each:
Name these equations at the heart of general relativity. They describe how spacetime is curved by the presence of mass-energy.
For any geodesic, there exist coordinates such that these things vanish; such coordinates are called normal. These 3-dimensional arrays are the connection coefficients of the Levi-Civita symbol.
The Christoffel symbols are computed from the derivatives of the components of this tensor. In flat spacetime, its matrix representation is diagonal with a three-coma-one signature. In the Einstein field equations, it is multiplied by the cosmological constant.
Einstein field equations [or Einstein's equations]
Christoffel symbols
metric tensor [prompt on g]
Triiodomethane and a compound with this functional group are produced by the iodoform reaction on a methyl ketone. For 10 points each:
Name this functional group that consists of a carbanion adjacent to a carbonyl.
In this process, enols rapidly interconvert with their carbonyl isomers in non-neutral media.
An enolate is generated in the first step of this reaction that converts the namesake compound to an alkyl-substituted acetic acid derivative. This reaction is similar to the acetoacetic ester synthesis.
enolate 
keto-enol tautomerization [or word forms]
malonic ester synthesis 
To do this in three dimensions, one can use the eikonal equation to solve for the slowness vector. For 10 points each:
Name this procedure in which the path of a wave through an inhomogeneous medium is determined. It shares its name with a computational procedure for simulating 3-dimensional graphics by tracking the path of light emitted by a camera onto an image.
Ray tracing was used to identify this liquid region of the earth, based on the existence of the p-wave shadow zone. ScS waves are those that are reflected off of the outer surface of this region.
The problem of deriving the structure of the earth from seismic wave data is described as this type of problem. In general, these problems are concerned with deriving model parameters from data.
ray tracing [accept word forms]
outer core [prompt on core] of the earth
inverse problems
Designed as a criticism of the second law of thermodynamics, this idea proposes that time-reversible dynamics are just as likely to result in a decrease in the entropy of an ideal gas as an increase. For 10 points each:
Name this paradox that can be resolved by relaxing the assumption of totally uncorrelated velocities present in then-current formulations of the second law.
The faulty assumption of uncorrelated velocities goes by this name.
The assumption of molecular chaos underpinned the original version of this thinker's H-theory, the corollary of the second law attacked in Loschmidt's paradox.
Loschmidt's paradox 
molecular chaos [or Stosszahlansatz]
Ludwig Eduard Boltzmann
Numbers of this type can be found by using Gelfond's theorem, which was used to demonstrate that e to the pi is one of them. For 10 points each:
Name this type of real number that is not the root of any rational polynomial.
This mathematician, who names a transcendental number, used his rational approximation theorem to determine a method of finding transcendental numbers.
This conjecture states that the transcendence degree of the list of linearly independent complex numbers is at most 2n, but at least n. Roy's conjecture was found to be equivalent to this one, which has not been formally proven
transcendental number 
Joseph Liouville 
Schanuel's conjecture 
The major current industrial process to make it is the Atofina-PCUK cycle, which involves the oxidation of ammonia with hydrogen peroxide. For 10 points each:
Name this reactive nitrogenous compound used in the Wolff-Kishner reduction
Similar to the Wolff-Kishner reaction, this also doubly-eponymous reaction converts an aldehyde or ketone to an alkene. First, a tosylhydrazone is formed, which is then decomposed with a base, proceeding through a carbene or carbenium ion intermediate.
And similar to the Bamford-Stevens reaction is this variant that uses an alkyllithium reagent as the base. The resulting vinyllithium can be worked up with water to the alkene, or coupled with an electrophile.
hydrazine [or diazane]
Bamford-Stevens reaction
Shapiro reaction
This element's triplet ground state sees two unpaired electrons occupying two degenerate orbitals. For 10 points each:
Name this element, three atoms of which combine to form ozone.
This test is used to find the concentration of dissolved oxygen in water. In this test, manganese (II) salt is added to water to form a white precipitate.
At the end of the Winkler test, a solution of this ion is used in titration to determine the amount of iodine in a water sample. A solution of the sodium salt known as "hypo" was used to develop photographs
oxygen
Winkler test 
thiosulfate 
In humans, the genes that code for it are located in clusters of tandem repeats on chromosomes 13, 14, 15, 21, and 22. For 10 points each:
In eukaryotes, this material is transcribed and assembled in the nucleolus. While bound to proteins, a structure composed of this material has peptidyl transferase on its own.
This non-SI unit measures sedimentation rate under the influence of ultracentrifuging . It is commonly used to distinguish between different types of ribosomes or ribosomal subunits
This ribosomal binding site in mRNA is located above the AUG start codon. Its anti-sequence consists of UUCCUCC and is located at the 3' end of 16S rRNA.
ribosomal RNA [or rRNA; prompt on partial answer]
Svedberg unit [or S]
Shine-Dalgarno sequence or box
The halting problem was the first problem to be shown to be in this class of problems for Turing machines. For 10 points each:
Name this class of problems that have a yes-or-no answer in principle, even though it is impossible in general to solve them on a given machine.
This quantity is the length of the shortest possible program to compute a given number. It is therefore infinite or undefined for non-computable numbers.
This computer scientist’s incompleteness theorem effectively shows that there are uncountably many undecidable problems by showing that there is no good way to place an upper bound on the Kolmogorov complexity for a machine able to do arithmetic. His namesake constant is definable but not computable.
undecidable problems [accept word forms]
the Kolmogorov complexity of the number
Gregory Chaitin
Tropical sprue inflames this body part. For 10 points each:
Name this part of the GI tract that contains the jejunum, ileum, and duodenum.
At the base of intestinal villi, the mucosa folds to form these structures. Stem cells necessary for maintaining the mucosa are found here and these structures also help to secrete water and electrolytes into the intestines.
These cells found in the bottom of the crypt contain eosinophilic granules and secrete alpha-defensins and lysozyme to kill off bacteria.
small intestine
intestinal crypts [or crypts of Lieberkuhn]
Paneth cell
This man's paper "Recursive Functions of Symbolic Expressions and their Computation by Machine" provided the initial outline of the LISP language. For 10 points each:
Identify this Turing Award-winning computer scientist who lends his name to a recursive algorithm where n = n - 10 for values over 100, his namesake 91 function.
McCarthy coined this term for a class of algorithms and techniques. So-called strong forms of it would result in machines that match or exceed human abilities.
This technique is used in many AI search algorithms. It differs from a best-first search in that it only considers the best single-step from the current position when making a decision. This type of greedy technique is bad at dealing with plateaus and ridges.
John McCarthy
artificial intelligence 
hill-climbing algorithm
When drawing reaction mechanisms involving them, a convention is to use a fishhook arrow to represent the movement of a single electron. For 10 points each:
Name these chemical species often generated by photolysis that have unpaired electrons.
This piperidine derivative discovered by Lebedev and Kazarnowskii is a stable radical protected sterically by four methyl groups. It can be used as a catalyst in mild oxidation reactions such as the oxidation of alcohols to carbonyls.
A radical of this benzene derivative is an intermediate in and lends its name to an industrial process that converts benzene, propylene, and atmospheric oxygen to phenol and acetone.
free radical
TEMPO [or (2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidin-1-yl)oxyl]
cumene [orisopropyl benzene; or2-phenylpropane]
The pressure drop across a flow is given by this quantity, times the streamwise aspect ratio, times the kinetic energy density, which is half the density times the mean flow speed squared. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which is thus the constant of proportionality in the Darcy-Weisbach equation. It can be read off a Moody chart.
Of course, the friction factor mainly depends on this dimensionless ratio, which is the ordinate of the Moody chart. For laminar flow, the friction factor is 64 divided by this quantity.
For turbulent flow, this parameter is important in determining the friction factor. Denoted epsilon, it appears in a non-dimensionalized form as a parameter in the Moody chart and Colebrook equation. It determines the friction factor for very high Reynolds number.
the friction factor [prompt on f]
the Reynolds number [prompt on Red]
mean height of roughness
Durum wheat is an example of this condition, and it was intentionally induced in triticale to overcome hybrid sterility. For 10 points each:
Name this condition of having more than two complete sets of homologous chromosomes.
This relationship among plants of genus Brassica was described by a Korean-Japanese botanist. In this arrangement, three ancestral diploid species intercombined to produce three different tetraploid species.
This substance can be used to induce polyploidy by inhibiting microtubule polymerization. Orginally derived from the autumn crocus, this tricyclic molecule is also used as a gout treatment.
polyploidy
The Triangle of U 
colchicine 
They are composed of thousands of units known as ommatidia, each ennervated by a single axon. For 10 points each:
Name this anatomical feature commonly used as the sight organ in arthropods
This term describes the simple pigmented eye spots of starfish and flatworms, as well as the small simple eyes found on many insects on the top of the head.
The compound eyes of flying and predatory insects may have some ommatidia concentrated in this area to provide acute vision. An analogous structure in the vertebrate eye retina is densely packed with cones.
compound eye [prompt on eye]
ocelli
fovea
The torque on one of these is given by its cross product with the B-field. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which can be understood for a planar wire loop as the current in the loop times the area bounded by the loop.
The aforementioned equation for the torque on a magnetic moment dictates that this property of the system is given by minus the dot product of the magnetic moment with the B-field.
The density of magnetic moment in a material is the magnetization. This tensor shows how the magnetization changes with changes in the H-field.
magnetic dipole moment [prompt on m or mu or dipole moment]
the standard potential energy [prompt on U]
susceptibility [prompt on chi]
Benchtop units for this technique that rely on a permanent magnet have recently been introduced. For 10 points each:
Name this technique based on aligning spins of atoms in a field and flipping them with an RF signal that can provide structural information about molecules.
This chemical is used as an internal standard for proton and carbon-13 NMR. In a proton spectrum, it appears as a singlet as it has 12 equivalent hydrogens, and its chemical shift is taken to be zero.
As TMS is not highly soluble in water, in aqueous NMR experiments it may be replaced as a standard with this sulfonic acid.
nuclear magnetic resonance [or NMR spectroscopy]
tetramethylsilane [or TMS]
DSS [or 4,4-dimethyl-4-silapentane-1-sulfonic acid]
The solid phase diagram for these two elements contains a convergent melting point at 1147 ÂºC and 4.30 atom percent of the lighter component, at which the liquid region touches the mix between Austenite and cementite. For 10 points each:
Name these two elements whose solid microscructures include pearlite, spheroidite, bainite, and martensite.
This is the name for convergent melting points like the aforementioned liquid-to-Austenite and cementite point in the iron-carbon system. These correspond to binary compositions having the lowest melting temperature, which also have the same name
The region in lower-left corner of the iron-carbon phase diagram is Ferrite, also known by this letter, in accordance with the phase naming convention common to binary solid phase diagrams.
iron AND carbon [or Fe AND C; prompt on steel]
eutectics 
alpha 
Its namesake vein carries oxygenated blood while its two arteries carry deoxygenated blood. For 10 points each
Name this structure that forms from the allantois and yolk sac.
This substance composed primarily of mucopolysaccharides protects the umbilical blood vessels. This material constricts after partution to clamp flow in the cord.
Umbilical cord tissue contains a high concentration of this type of stem cell with the potential to germinate to any fetal or adult cell type, but not extraembryonic tissues.
umbilical cord [or funiculus umbilicalis]
Wharton's jelly
pluripotent stem cells
For 10 points each, answer these questions about things that birds have and you don't. 
Birds conduct their excretion and reproduction through this single opening at the bottom.
Birds have a bony structure called the keel, to which their flight muscles attach. The keel is an extension of this other bone.
Birds inherited this characteristic from dinosaurs. This characteristic creates additional space for air sacs inside the body, which are connected to the lungs and used for air storage. 
cloaca 
sternum [prompt on breastbone]
postcranial skeletal pneumaticity [prompt on "hollow bones"]
 When modeled in lambda calculus or another formal system, this process is known as reduction and is subject to a system of strategies. Call-by-reference and call-by-value are strict rule sets for it. For 10 points each:
Name this basic process in computing, in which an expression is replace by its equivalent.
This non-strict evaluation strategy, the opposite of eager evaluation, will return the same results as a call-by-name strategy in languages that lack side effects. It is employed by Miranda and Haskel.
Haskell is an example of a pure variety of this family of programming languages. Originating as implementations and extensions of lambda calculus, they usually iterate by recursion exclusively.
evaluation
call-by-need evaluation [or lazy evaluation]
functional programming languages
Answer the following about refrigeration cycles, for 10 points each:
The effectiveness of heat pumps and refrigeration cycles is often given in this quantity, the ratio of the heat absorbed at the lower temperature to the net work.
A deviation from Boyle's law, in this effect, most gases are cooled when expanded through a throttling process, provided they start below a characteristic inversion temperature.
This industrial process used in the liquefaction of gases includes a Joule-Thomson throttling process, a step which simplifies it compared to the Siemens cycle.
coefficient of performance [or cop]
Joule-Thomson effect or Joule-Kelvin effect
Hampson-Linde cycle (accept either or both names)
[EDITOR'S NOTE: Please do not read alternative answers to the first part as they may spoil the second part.] One of these applying to complex-valued objects is named for Schur and gives the desired result as the so-called Schur form under the adjoint by a unitary operator. For 10 points each:
Name these procedures whereby a given matrix can be re-written as the product of other matrices with useful properties. For example, the Schur form has zeroes below its main diagonal.
The QR decomposition writes any matrix as the product of an orthogonal matrix Q and a matrix R with this property, which the Schur form also has. It is particularly easy to write the determinant for a square matrix with this property.
Given a matrix M and two vectors u and v, these are scalars sigma such that M v equals sigma u and M-star u equals sigma v. Finding these allows you to decompose M into the matrix of vectors u, times a matrix with these values on the diagonal, times the conjugate of the matrix of vectors v.
matrix decompositions [or matrix factorizations or matrix triangularizations]
upper triangular
singular values [EDITOR'S NOTE: The singular value decomposition is thus described.]
This man's second number is the inverse square of the AlfvÃ©n number. For 10 points each:
Name this astronomer who proved that dynamo action cannot maintain an axisymmetric magnetic field.
The first Cowling number is the ratio of the electromagnetic force to this type of force. Its ratio to viscous forces is the Reynolds number.
The Cowling approximation in linear pulsation theory consists of ignoring perturbations in this quantity. Poisson's equation for it states that its Laplacian is four pi times the gravitational constant times the mass density.
Thomas George Cowling 
inertial forces 
gravitational potential [don't accept "potential energy"]
Consonants articulated at this part of the mouth include the semi-vowel sound usually written in English as "y," as well as the infamous Hungarian consonant stops "ty" and "gy." For 10 points each:
Name this bony plate at the roof of the mouth, which in a common birth defect can be cleft.
The tip of the tongue also touches the hard palate when this kind of consonant is produced. Making one of these consonants requires curling the tongue back, and they are common in Indian languages, having possibly been borrowed into Sanskrit from a Dravidian substratum.
This term is used to describe consonants that are articulated in the same place, such as t and n, which are both alveolar, and k and g, which are both velar.
hard palate [do not accept "soft palate"]
retroflex consonants 
homorganic 
Most of the members of this class have an associated protein such as slingshot that modulate their activity. For 10 points each:
Give the name of this class of enzymes that transfer a phosphate group using an amino acid whose side chain is a phenol.
This tyrosine kinase family named for having a pair of nearly identical domains form a signalling pathway with the transcription factors known as STATs.
The receptor for this hormone has two tyrosine kinase domains in its beta-chains. These phosphorylate its intracellular target, IRS-1.
tyrosine kinases [or TK; prompt on protein kinase or PK]
: JAK [or Janus kinase; or just another kinase]
insulin receptor
In this process seen in solutions and colloids, small crystals or particles dissolve, then coalesce to form larger particles. For 10 points each:
Name this process that can destabilize emulsions and colloids through the growth of large particles or droplets
This process occurs when colloid particles coalesce out of suspension, seen as flakes in the solvent. In contrast to Ostwald ripening, it usually occurs in the suspension of oil particles in an aqueous system.
Rates of coagulation of particles can be described by this equation, named for an Austrian scientist who also has a diffusion relation with Einstein.
Ostwald ripening 
flocculation
Smulchowski coagulation equation
According to this theorem, a physical theory containing n parameters and having a dimensional matrix with rank k can be re-cast as a theory in n minus k dimensionless variables. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem which also contains a parameter reduction scheme. It is named for the fact that the dimensionless variables are products of the parameters.
Two systems with the same governing equations and that have the same values for their dimensionless variables are called this. Good model systems have this relationship to the system under study.
Proving the strong form of Buckingham's pi theorem requires this theorem. According to this theorem, if a vector function f satisfies f of t x equals t to the n times f of x for all scalars t and some fixed n, then x dot grad f equals n times f of x. The relation satisfied by f provides the name of this theorem.
: the Buckingham pi theorem
 similarity
Euler's homogeneous function theorem
Graphical user interfaces are almost always driven by these entities. C-sharp uses a special type of delegate to handle them. For 10 points each:
Identify these entities from computer science, which can be handled with special methods like onclick and onload in JavaScript.
Event handling is almost always recommended over busy waiting, which uses one of these entities to repeatedly check if a condition has been satisfied. They can be implemented in C with the keywords for and while.
Event handling is the subject of ones of these called Observer and Publish/Subscribe, in which a notify signal is sent when an event must be handled. Singleton and Builder are other examples of them from a namesake book.
events 
control loops 
design patterns [prompt on partial answers]
Heterocyclic rings containing oxygen are important functional groups in a variety of pharmaceutical compounds. Answer the following about some examples for 10 points each.
This group is a cyclic ester, larger systems of which such as streptomycin are known as macrolides.
The cephalosporin antibiotic cefuroxime contains this five-membered aromatic cyclic ether. Its fully hydrogenated derivative is a common laboratory solvent.
The D ring of paclitaxel is this four-membered cyclic ether. This group may be synthesized in the photochemically induced reaction of a carbonyl with an alkene known as the PaternÃ²Â–BÃ¼chi reaction.
lactone 
furan
oxetane 
Attributes that make them useful biological model organisms include their large broods and nearly transparent eggs. For 10 points each:
These small freshwater fish are distinguishable by a pattern of blue horizontal stripes
A common research technique in Danio is gene knockdown utilizing these artificial RNA molecules with the namesake chemical functionality taking the place of ribose.
This acronymic technique that allows for identification of specific mutations which was introduced in Arabidopsis is also used in Danio.It relies on the creation of a DNA heteroduplex, which is cleaved by a single-strand nuclease to create fragments for analysis.
zebrafish [or zebra danio; or Danio rerio]
phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligo
TILLING [or Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes]
Each of these can be built up from products of transpositions. The subgroup of one containing only even transpositions is known as an alternating group. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical group, the action of whose elements changes the order of objects in the set over which it acts.
A group has this property if and only if, for each element, it has a nested sequence of normal subgroups whose pairwise quotients are Abelian and whose final member is a that element. The symmetric group of order 5 is the lowest-order permutation group to lack this property.
Because S-five is not solvable, the quantic equation cannot be solved by radicals, as can be shown by this theory. The namesake group of this theory encodes the symmetries of a polynomial and is the symmetric group in the irreducible order of the polynomial.
a permutation group [or symmetric group; prompt on S]
solvable [accept word forms like solvability]
Galois theory
This law states that the asymptotic transition probability scales as the square modulus of the integral over all space of the conjugate of the final wave function, times the perturbing Hamiltonian acting on the initial wave function. For 10 points each:
Give this rule, whose first-order constant of proportionality is the final state density, times two pi over h-bar.
The reciprocal of the quantity calculated in the Fermi golden rule is known as the relaxation this. The negative exponential of this variable times the quantity calculated in the Fermi golden rule roughly gives the probability that a state has undergone the corresponding decay.
For the Fermi golden rule to apply, the perturbing Hamiltonian must be either constant, or have this behavior with time
the Fermi golden rule
time [prompt on t]
oscillating [or harmonic]
This theory was later extended by Rudy Marcus. For 10 points each:
Name this method of calculating reaction rates for unimolecular reactions in terms of the number of ways to distribute energy among the internal degrees of freedom in the reactant molecule.
Unimolecular dissociation reactions were among the first areas of study in this field pioneered by Ahmed Zewail that uses lasers to study reactions on ultrashort timescales.
This central technique of femtochemistry uses two pulses from a laser: the first to provide excitation energy and the second to interrogate the reaction.
RRKM theory [or Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory]
femtochemistry
pump-probe spectroscopy [or transient-absorption spectroscopy or flash spectroscopy]
They have a separate genome, but 95 percent of their proteins are coded for by genes in the nucleus. For 10 points each:
Name these cellular organelles specialized for photosynthesis.
The light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis occur in these membrane bodies that are arranged in stacks called grana
The site of the reactions in the Calvin cycle and the location of the chloroplast , this is the fluid inside the chloroplast that surrounds the thylakoids.
chloroplasts 
thylakoids 
stroma 
A series of these devices called Black Brants are widely employed for their high ceiling. These are generally meant to achieve elongated elliptic trajectories to maximize time near the apogee. For 10 points each:
Name these launch vehicles for scientific payloads named for their ability to probe the upper atmosphere.
Sounding rockets are one of the few good ways to probe this middle layer of the atmosphere, home to noctilucent clouds. Its location between the more interesting and easier to reach thermosphere and stratosphere has lent it the nickname ignorosphere.
One interesting feature of the mesosphere is a 5 km thick layer abundant in this element. This element's D line is a common target for terrestrial probes and LIDAR directed at the mesosphere.
sounding rockets [or sounders; prompt on rockets]
the mesosphere
sodium [or Na]
Intranasal administration of this substance has been for its effects on empathy and trust. For 10 points each:
First artificially synthesized by du Vigneaud, name this nonapeptide released by the pituitary which induces uterine contractions and the milk "let-down" response.
This closely related pituitary nonapeptide influences pair bonding behavior in prairie voles, but its primary function is to regulate water retention.
Pigs and their relatives use a variant form of vasopressin where arginine has been replaced by this other basic amino acid.
oxytocin
arginine vasopressin or AVP or anti-diuretic hormone or ADH
lysine or K
In their usual physical context, this set of two equations relates the usual refractive index to the principle value of a contour integral involving the absorption coefficient, as both can be derived from the dielectric function. For 10 points each:
Name these relations, which allow one to determine a system's absorptive response function from its elastic response function in frequency space, and vise versa.
The Kramers-Kronig relations for the optical properties of a medium work because the absorption coefficient has this relationship to the full index of refraction, which is analytic. In general, the sign of this quantity changes under complex conjugation.
The contour integrals in the Kramers-Kronig relations are restricted to non-negative frequencies due to this property of physical systems. In relativity, this property is roughly equivalent to no signal traveling faster than the speed of light.
the Kramers-Kronig relations
the imaginary part
causality [prompt on things like events from the future cannot change the present]
Its normal role is to help stabilize neuronal microtubules. For 10 points each:
Name this protein that when hyperphosphorylated, aggregates into insoluble tangles in Alzheimer's patients
Tau protein is also sometimes seen as part of these inclusions made of aggregated protein seen in Parkinson's disease, Pick's disease, and their namesake dementia.
This is the primary protein seen in Lewy bodies. A protein of unknown function, mutations of the gene that codes for it are common in familial forms of Parkinson's.
: Tau protein
Lewy bodies
 alpha-synuclein protein
The diatomic compound of this element has one of the longest single bonds observed. For 10 points each:
Name this halogen whose radioisotopes present a particular danger due to accumulation in the thyroid.
Iodine is a cocatalyst in the Monsanto and Cativa processes, which both make this compound.
Named for two chemists, this compound based on 2-iodoxybenzoic acid involves iodine in a 5-membered ring. It can oxidize primary alcohols to aldehydes and secondary alcohols to ketones.
iodine [or I]
acetic acid [or ethanoic acid]
Dess-Martin periodinane [or DMP]
According to this theorem, when an integrable Hamiltonian system is subjected to a nonlinear perturbation, the non-resonant invariant orbits from the initial system persist in the phase space of the perturbed system. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem, which proves, for example, that elliptical orbits in the planar three-body problem are stable.
The persistent orbits in the KAM theorem have this property such that their proper variation in time has at least two incommensurable frequencies.
Quasiperidic systems often exhibit this sort of behavior, also typified by the existence pathological sensitivity to initial conditions and fractal attractors
the KolmogorovÂ–ArnoldÂ–Moser theorem
quasiperiodic [or quasiperiodicity]
chaos [or chaotic motion]
Misses within this entity result in expensive tree walks. Each line in this cache contains a single page table entry. For 10 points each:
Identify this cache within the memory management unit.
Translation lookaside buffers are used to convert addresses of this type to physical addresses. This word also names a type of machine that runs Java bytecode.
When one of these events occur, a victim page is selected by the kernel and expelled from physical memory. These events happen due to physical memory misses and are thus the opposite of hits.
translation lookaside buffer [prompt on partial answers]
virtual [or virtual addresses; or virtual machine]
page faults
These objects encode the symmetries of differential equations; that is, they are groups of operators whose action maps one solution of a differential equation to another. For 10 points each:
Name these structures, which can also be understood as differentiable manifolds having compatible operations.
A Lie group can be generated from its corresponding Lie algebra using this function. It can be understood for abstract objects using its power series expansion 1, plus x, plus x squared over 2 factorial, plus x cubed over 3 factorial, and so on.
You can make a Lie algebra by appending a Lie bracket to one of these spaces over a field. According to their axioms, these spaces have commutative, associative addition with inverse and identity, and also have associative, distributive multiplication by scalars with identity. And who doesn't want that?
Lie groups 
the exponential map [or e to the x]
vector spaces 
In the Corey-Chaykovsky reaction, they are prepared from carbonyl groups reacting with sulfonium ylides. For 10 points each.
These highly strained cyclic ethers can also be prepared by the Prilezhaev reaction.
The nitrogen analog of epoxides, these compounds can be made by addition of nitrenes to alkenes, as well as by the Corey-Chaykovksy reaction.
This method of asymmetrically preparing epoxides involves potassum peroxymonosulfate, otherwise known as oxone, and a fructose derivative.
epoxide or oxirane
aziridines [or azacyclopropanes]
Shi epoxidation
The one of these associated to a given linear problem can be found by replacing the source term with a Dirac delta function. When they account for time, they are known as propagators. For 10 points each:
Name these functions of mathematical physics whose convolution with a source gives the unknown function.
A Green's function is called a Green's kernel when it does not account for these. For a second-order equation, linear forms of these can be classified as Dirichlet, Neuman, or Robin/mixed.
A Green's function will be symmetric in its arguments if and only if its corresponding problem has this property.
Green's functions [accept Green's kernels; prompt on kernels]
boundary conditions
self-adjointness
Cauchy's formula states that the traction vector is equal to this mathematical object acting on a unit normal vector. For 10 points each:
Name this symmetrical three-by-three tensor.
The off-diagonal components of the stress tensor correspond to these quantities. Denoted tau, they give the force per unit area acting at right angles to the face of a differential cube.
The diagonal components of the stress tensor consist of deviatoric terms plus this value. The hydrostatic stress tensor is this scalar value times the identity.
stress tensor [or stress matrix; prompt on sigma]
shear stresses [prompt on tau]
pressure [prompt on p; prompt on normal stress]
Symbolized in a circuit as a triangle with a plus and minus on one side, these elements have 5 pins: high input, low input, high source, low source, and output. For 10 points each:
Name these circuit elements that ideally act as comparators in the open loop
An open-look ideal op-amp acts as a comparator because its value for this quantity in the open loop is infinite. This ratio of the output voltage to the difference between the input voltages is the fundamental quantity characterizing any amplifier.
An ideal op amp also has an infinite value for this quantity, the rate at which the output voltage can change
op-amp [or operational amplifier]
open-loop gain [prompt on A; prompt on G; prompt on transfer function]
slew rate
For a given function f and point a, this is given at a different point x as the nth derivative of f at a, divided by n factorial, times the quantity x minus a to the nth power, summed over n. For 10 points each:
Name this entity used to approximate a function.
According to Taylor's theorem, for the Nth-order Taylor series of f centered at a, this quantity is given by the integral with respect to t from a to x of the N-plus-first derivative of f of t, times quantity x minus t to the N, all divided by N factorial.
The integral form of the Taylor series remainder can be converted to the usual Lagrange remainder by integrating by parts and using this theorem. According to this theorem, if a function is differentiable on an interval, then there is a point where the derivative times the interval width is equal to the total change in the function.
Taylor series [or Maclaurin series; or Laurent series; prompt on power series]
remainder of the series
mean value theorem
For the binomial distribution with mean p and parameter n, this quantity is equal to 1 minus p plus p times e to the t, all to the n. For 10 points each:
Identify this function that, for a given random variable X, is equal to the expectation of e to the quantity t times X.
Evaluating the second derivative of the moment-generating function for a distribution at 0 yields the second central moment of the distribution, which is known as this. The standard deviation is the square root of this quantity.
Allowing the parameter t in the moment-generating function to be imaginary yields the characteristic function. The characteristic function is the Fourier transform of this other function related to the distribution. This function times a differential of configuration space gives the probability of an event within that differential.
the moment-generating function [prompt on M]
variance
the probability density function
If two components can form one of these mixtures, their Txy diagram will contain a point where the vapor and liquid lines intersect other than x = 0 and x = 1. For 10 points each:
Name this type of mixture, where boiling does not change the composition of the mixture, making the components inseparable by fractional distillation.
For an azeotrope, this quantity, equal to the ratio of the vapor mole fraction to the liquid mole fraction for component 1 divided by the ratio of the vapor mole fraction to the liquid mole fraction for component 2, is equal to 1. It describes how quickly one component boils with respect to the other component.
This quantity, defined as the ratio of the vapor mole fraction to the liquid mole fraction of a component, measures how a component partitions itself between the liquid and vapor phases. They can be used to simplify certain VLE calculations.
azeotrope [or azeotropic mixture]
relative volatility
K-value [do not accept answers of Keq, the equilibrium constant]
This quantity, often measures in barns, represents the probability that a particle incident to a nucleus will interact with it. In a nuclear reactor, it is best to maximize the one of these for neutron absorption by the fuel. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity.
The microscopic cross section is multiplied by this other property to give the macroscopic cross section, which is the differential probability per unit path length that the associated interaction occurs.
Energies near which a cross section is particularly large are known by this name. On the graph of a neutron absorption cross-section, these can be seen as spikes in the low-energy region and correspond to available shell energies of the nucleus.
the microscopic cross section [prompt on sigma]
the number density of the nuclei in question [prompt on N]
resonances
The tectum, or the roof of this region, contains the superior and inferior colliculi, which are nuclei that relay visual information with other sensory outputs.  For 10 points each:
Name this section of the brain that supports subconscious control of upper limb position and muscle tone. The reticular formation in this region processes incoming sensations and helps maintain consciousness.
This part of the mesencephalon lies lateral to the red nucleus and regulates activity in the basal nuclei. Its gray matter contains darkly pigmented cells, and the death of dopamine synthesizing neurons in this region is symptomatic of Parkinson's disease.
Cerebral peduncles in the mesencephalon carry ascending sensory information to this ovoid structure of the diencephalon, the final relay point of sensory impulses that projects sensory information to the cerebral cortex.
mesencephalon [or midbrain]
substantia nigra
thalamus 
Also known as the unit impulse function, it is zero everywhere except at zero and has an integral of one. For 10 points each:
Name this so-called function.
The Dirac delta function is not a function at all, but rather a distribution. Specifically, it is a member of this space of distributions, the continuous dual of the Schwartz space. These distributions all have convergent Fourier transforms, which is always nice.
According to this useful property of the delta function, the integral of any function times a the delta function is equal to the function evaluated at the zero of the delta function, so long at the interval of integration contains that zero.
Dirac Delta function
the tempered distributions 
the sifting property [prompt on D-prime or S-star]
It occurs in nuclei with an abundance of neutrons, as opposed to similar processes that occur in nuclei with an abundance of protons. For 10 points each:
Name this nuclear process in which a neutron converts into a proton, with the emission of an antineutrino to conserve lepton number.
The energy distribution of energies in beta decay is continuous, but is chopped at this value, equal to the mass defect change times c-squared.
For an allowed beta decay, the beta kinetic energy distribution is given by the momentum, times the total energy, times the square of the difference between kinetic energy and Q-value, times this function. Containing the ratio of squares of gamma functions, this function accounts for attraction between the emitted beta and the nucleus.
beta-minus decay
the reaction Q-value [prompt on reaction energy]
the Fermi function [prompt on F]
These compounds are produced by reacting beta-ketoesters with ammonia and alpha-haloketones in the Hantzsch synthesis. For 10 points each:
Name these heterocyclic compounds with formula C4N4NH. They can be considered as cyclopentadiene with nitrogen substituting for one carbon.
Connecting four pyrroles via methine bridges produces this macrocycle structure. Derivatives of this structure complex with iron in heme.
Vitamin B-12 complexes with cobalt with this variant structure with 19 carbons in the macrocycle instead of 20. Its structural differences cause the conjugated system to only extend partway around the ring, in contrast to porphyrins.
pyrrole 
porphyrins [or porphin]
corrin
The final step of this process oxidizes malate to produce oxaloacetate. For 10 points each:
Name this cycle which follows glycolysis in cellular respiration.
In the citric acid cycle, this compound is a substrate in the production of fumarate from succinate. This compound is also responsible for passing electrons to cytochrome c in the electron transport chain.
Coenzyme Q10 is a product of farnesyl-PP produced in this pathway, which also produces cholesterol and is therefore targeted by statins.
citric acid cycle [or tricarboxylic acid cycle; or Szent-GyÃ¶rgyi-Krebs cycle]
coenzyme Q10 [or CoQ10 or ubiquinone; or ubidecarenone]
mevalonate-dependent pathway [or MAD; or HMG-CoA reductase pathway; or isoprenoid pathway]
This process is carried out by bacteria of the genus Frankia, which associate with plants in actinorhizal mutualisms. For 10 points each:
] Name this process by which atmospheric nitrogen is converted into biologically available ammonia.
Nitrogen fixation is carried out by cyanobacteria like those of the genera Nostoc or Anabaena, which form these structures that have a high concentration of nitrogenases. These specialized cells have multiple cell walls to prevent oxygen from entering.
Anabaena species form mutualisms with the "Mosquito" type of these plants, which have vascular tissue but reproduce via spores. These plants are divided into eusporangiate and leptosporangiate lineages.
N fixation [or nitrogen fixation; accept word forms]
heterocysts
ferns [or Pteridophyta]
The one-dimensional version of this problem is significantly easier to solve than higher-dimensional ones. Lars Onsager was the first to determine an analytic expression for magnetization in terms of temperature in this model in 2-space. For 10 points each:
Name this model of ferromagnetism.
One reason for the difficulty in solving other-than-1-D Ising models is the presence of these phenomena, which are absent in the 1-D problem. They may be explained in terms of magnetization superselection sectors, as in the work of Rudolf Peierls.
The Ising model and its phase transitions can be understood through the partition function of this entity, which is determined by a sum over partition functions for different numbers of particles. It is an extension of a less-commonly used collection form, from which it differs by the specification of a chemical potential.
the Ising model
phase transitions 
grand canonical ensemble [or macrocanonical ensemble; do not accept or prompt on partial answers such as "canonical ensemble"]
This operation is implemented in hardware by Wallace trees. For 10 points each:
Name this operation that is the analog of Boolean AND.
] The intermediate reductions in Wallace trees are carried out by these circuits, which produce two outputs usually labeled S and C, the latter of which is produced by ANDing the two inputs.
The other gate in a half-adder is this one, which is two concave lines, the latter connected to a semicircle.
multiplication [accept equivalents like times]
half-adders [or half-summers]
exclusive or
This equation adds attractive and repulsive terms to the ideal gas law which are calculated based on a substance's properties at the critical point. For 10 points each:
Name this equation of state developed by a Dutch physicist.
This equation developed by two Shell Oil chemists made adjustments to the van der Waals parameters. A modification by Soave made it more suitable for liquid-phase calculations .
This quantity symbolized with a lowercase omega shows up in the Soave-Redlich-Kwong and Peng-Robinson equations. It is a measure of the non-spherical nature of molecules.
van der Waals or VdW equation of state
Redlich-Kwong equation of state
acentric factor or Pitzer factor
Conn's syndrome involves an overproduction of this hormone as a result of an adrenal tumor. For 10 points each:
Name this mineralcorticoid produced in the adrenal cortex that acts on the nephron.
Aldosterone is considered part of this system of blood pressure and fluid balance. ACE inhibitors work on an enzyme in this system.
] Renin is excreted by these cells in the kidney. Along with macula densa cells and Lacis cells, they make up a namesake apparatus.
aldosterone 
renin-angiotensin aldosterone system [or RAS; or RAAS]
juxtaglomerular cells [or JG cells; or granular cells]
The Cossee-Arlman mechanism is typically used to describe these catalysts. For 10 points each:
Name these catalysts used to produce polymers of terminal alkenes that consist of titanium and aluminum centers.
Ziegler-Natta catalysts based around vanadium rather than titanium can be used to produce this form of polypropylene, in which the stereocenters alternate with a regular, well-defined pattern.
Central to the Cossee-Arlman mechanism is this type of interaction with a hydrogen atom and an unsaturated metal center that forms a special type of three center, two electron bond.
Ziegler-Natta catalysts
syndiotactic polypropylene
agostic interaction
Like the Hartree-Fock method, this method requires iteratively solving an approximate Hamiltonian, but it is generally less computationally intensive than HF. For 10 points each:
Name this quantum mechanical modeling theory. Originally based on the Thomas-Fermi model, it makes use of a namesake quantity that gives the expected number of electrons in a given volume.
The conceptual basis for density functional theory is summed up in these two theorems, which guarantee the existence of a unique density functional that obtains its minimum at the electronic ground state.
Kohn-Sham DFT has a counterpart to this theorem from the closed-shell Hartree-Fock method. This theorem states that the first ionization energy is equal to the negative of the energy of the highest occupied molecular orbital.
density functional theory [or DFT]
Hohenberg-Kohn theorems
Koopmans' theorem
Answer some questions about methods that plants use to adapt to dry conditions, for 10 points each:
The spines on a cactus are actually modified versions of this plant part, which in desert plants is often covered by a waxy cuticle. These features of a plant hang from the end of a petiole and are responsible for photosynthesis.
Desert plants often use this form of carbon fixation, in which CO2 is collected during the night to form malate, which is then used for photosynthesis during the day.
This is the name given to plants that have adapted to surviving in dry climates. Among their adaptations include sunken pits for their stoamata.
Leaf [or leaves]
CAM [or Crassulacean acid metabolism]
xerophyte
Answer the following about a certain type of clouds, for 10 points each.
This term refers to wispy clouds, and one form of this type of clouds is commonly known as mare's tails.
The species of cirrus cloud known as mare's tails has this Latin name, which means "hooked."
This optical phenomenon often occurs because of light passing through ice crystals in cirrus clouds. In this phenomenon, a luminous halo appears on one or both sides of the Sun.
cirrus
cirrus uncinus
sundog [or parhelion]
A modern version of this ancient technique is used to treat polycythemia vera. For 10 points each
Name this practice previously called phlebotomy, in which people were cut in order to rebalance the humors. Either a lancet or leeches could be used in this technique.
This ancient Greek physician was a huge fan of bloodletting. He enjoyed vivisecting monkeys and pigs in order to learn about anatomy and lends his name to the great cerebral vein.
Before Galen's time, people believed that the arteries were not filled with blood, but this other substance. Galen showed otherwise.
bloodletting [accept reasonable equivalents]
Aelius Galenus [or Claudius Galenus or Galen of Pergamum]
air
This effect occurs when a magnetic field changes the polarization of light that passes through a dielectric. For 10 points each:
Name this linear effect discovered by a British scientist who also names a Maxwell equation relating the voltage to the time change in magnetic flux.
This constant relates the magnetic flux and the change in polarization angle in the Faraday effect.
The Faraday effect is stronger for dielectrics with a high value of this quantity. This value can usually be approximated as the square root of a material's permittivity.
Faraday effect
Verdet constant
index of refraction [prompt on "n"]
Name some things that aren't science, though Isaac Hirsch wishes they were, for 10 points each.
This supposed ten-foot petrified man was planted by George Hull, who then hired two men to dig a well and inadvertently find it. P.T. Barnum made a replica of it.
Martin Fleischmann and Stanley Pons excitedly announced that they had successfully performed the "cold" version of this process. Other scientists could not replicate their results in performing this and eventually realized that they were doing something else.
This researcher of unusual phenomena developed a cult following, who named themselves after him. He enjoyed studying pseudoscience, and his legacy mostly lives on in people clipping newspaper stories about frogs raining from the sky.
Cardiff Giant
cold fusion
Charles Hoy Fort
These short segments are often transmitted during conjugation using sex pili. For 10 points each:
Name these short segments of DNA exchanged between bacteria in order to share traits like antibiotic resistance. They were first characterized by Joshua Lederberg.
The sex pilus is encoded by this plasmid, which contains the Tra region. Those organisms that integrate this plasmid into their genome
This small-scale procedure isolates plasmids from a colony of bacteria using alkaline lysis and a silica column. Unlike the midi and maxi versions, it only isolates around 30 micrograms of DNA.
plasmids
Fertility plasmid
miniprep
These equations take into account convection currents and contain diffusion numbers. For 10 points each:
Name this set of doubly-eponymous, difficult-to-solve equations that describe fluid mechanics.
The Navier-Stokes equations are formed from the combination of the fluid kinematics equation and this type of equation, which for a Newtonian fluid calculates fluid stress using the unity tensor and strain rate. They generally map the response of a particular material to an external stress.
One parameter in the Navier-Stokes equations is this quantity, symbolized rho. This quantity can be calculated as mass divided by volume.
Navier-Stokes equations
constitutive relations
density
Take a bucket, fill it with water, tie it to a cord, twist the cord, and let go. For ten points each:
This man proposed the bucket argument in his Principia Mathematica. The argument is that the water's surface is concave even though the water is not moving relative to the bucket.
This physicist refuted Newton's argument with the idea that the bucket's motion is not absolute, but relative to all the distant stars of the universe. This idea became known as his namesake principle.
Mach's Principle is incompatible with General Relativity, but not with alternatives to GR like this one that describes the gravitational constant as a variable scalar field.
Isaac Newton
Ernst Mach
Jordan-Brans-Dicke theory
Answer the following about protein folding, for ten points each:
This is the name for the three dimensional shape of the protein, a step above the simple sequence or whether the protein locally conforms to an alpha helix or beta sheet.
Proteins that assist in the folding of proteins are these, so named because they keep the protein chain from perturbing outside influences so that it can fold.
A partial answer to Levinthal's paradox is this rule of thumb, states that the tertiary structure is determine by amino acid sequence as long as structure has a significantly lower Gibbs free energy than others.
Tertiary Structure
Chaperones or Chaperonins
Anfinsen's Dogma
This is the layer where aerosols and water vapor tends to hang out, For 10 points:
Name the lowest layer of the atmosphere.
The temperature of the trophosphere decreases as you go up, meaning that it has a positive value of this quantity. This quantity is the negative derivative of temperature with respect to altitude.
The middle and upper troposphere contains these cells, which along with Farrell and Hadley cells are responsible for circulating air throughout the atmosphere. Ozone depletion occurs in one of these cells.
trophosphere
lapse rate
polar cell [or polar vortex]
A modified form of this algorithm is used to encode bitmaps in fax machines, and For 10 points each:
Identify this compression algorithm which takes an input sentence, creates a frequency table, then generates a tree of binary prefix codes.
The number of operations needed to create a Huffman code is equal to big O of this value, which is also the average runtime of quicksort.
This other method of data compression, which is used by bzip2, takes the input string, rotates it, and arranges the rotations in dictionary order before extracting the final column.
Huffman coding
n log n
Burrows‐Wheeler transform
With Liebig, this man published a theory of compound radicals after analyzing the oil of bitter almonds. For 10 points each:
Name this German scientist who synthesized urea without the help of any animal kidney. Though the experiment helped disprove vitalism, that wasn't its original goal.
An important step in the field of prebiotic chemistry was the realization that this molecule has the ability to catalyze reactions, leading to a hypothesis about its namesake "world".
Another important step in prebiotic chemistry was this scientist's discovery of proteinoid microspheres, which he believed was a step in the spontaneous generation of life.
Friedrich Wohler
RNA [or ribonucleic acid]
Sydney Walter Fox
This competitor of loop quantum gravity is an effort to unify relativity and quantum mechanics, and is usually thought of as the best candidate for the Theory of Everything. For 10 points each:
Name this theory developed by Edward Witten, which united all previous string theories into one unified 11‐dimensional framework.
M theory predicts that the 7 extra dimensions of spacetime are compactified into these shapes. There are 10 to the 500 possible false vacua in M theory corresponding to versions of these shapes.
Some of the string theories unified in M theory have this unusual property, in which left‐moving excitations and right‐moving excitations are in spacetimes of different dimensions.
M theory
Calabi‐Yau manifolds
heterotic
The Cook-Levin theorem showed that the Boolean Satisfiability Problem is in this complexity class. For 10 points each:
This class of problems consists of the problems that are the most difficult problems in NP; formally, a problem is in this class if and only if it is in NP and every problem in NP is reducible to it.
The best known algorithms for NP-complete problems like k-SAT take at least this worst-case runtime, which implies that P is not equal to NP. A version of the halting problem which asks whether a Turing machine will stop in a finite amount of steps is also solvable in this runtime.
This problem, which asks for the optimum way to place objects of certain value and weight into a container to maximize the value for a given maximum weight.
NP-complete
exponential [accept 2 to the n or {any number} to the n; accept 2 to the polynomial or {any number} to the polynomial, but do NOT just accept "polynomial"]
knapsack problem or rucksack problem
Answer some questions about phase diagrams, for 10 points each:
This is the point on a phase diagram in which the compound exists as a solid, liquid, and gas all at the same time.
This formula states that the number of degrees of freedom equals the number of components minus the number of phases plus two.
In this kind of transformation, a liquid and a solid phase combine to form a single solid phase. The production of austenite is on example
triple point
Gibbs phase rule
peritectic
This technique can be used to find the potential above a conducting plane with a point charge above it. For 10 points each:
Name this approach that for the just described scenario would involve placing an imaginary charge equidistant below the boundary and then making use of the uniqueness of solutions satisfying the boundary conditions.
In the aforementioned problem, one can utilize the uniqueness theorem for potentials satisfying this equation, which states that the Laplacian of the potential equals negative charge density divided by the permittivity.
This law, one of Maxwell's equations, says that the electric flux through a surface is equal to the charge inside the surface divided by the permittivity of free space.
method of images [or method of image charges]
Poisson equation
Gauss's Law
These rocks can be chemical, biochemical, or clastic. For 10 points each:
Name these rocks made up of deposited material. They include sandstone and shale.
These are clastic sedimentary rocks made of rounded gravels greater than 2 mm in diameter. They should not be confused with the angular breccias.
These sedimentary rocks have a similar composition to that of shale, but unconsolidated fine clay or silt sized sediment. Shale is often considered a type of these rocks that break into layers as opposed to blocky pieces.
sedimentary rocks
conglomerates
mudstones
This transcription factor that regulates expression of CNTNAP2 was found to be mutated in members of the KE family with language disorders. For 10 points each:
Name this helix-turn-helix motif. Proteins containing this, and named after this motif, include FOXP2 and FOXO1.
While FOXP2 is important in brain development, FOXP3 regulates development of the regulatory type of these immune cells whose other types include helper and cytotoxic cells.
FOXD3 has been shown to repress melanocyte development in some tissues and has been implicated in one family's autosomal dominant form of this disease, in which patches of de- pigmented skin appear.
forkhead box or winged helix
T cells
vitiligo
Peter Agre won the 2003 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discovering these proteins. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins that regulate the flow of water into a cell. The NPA motif is thought to help rotate water molecules within these protein.
Aquaporin regulates the flow of water across this barrier that separates the interior of a cell from its outside environment. This lipid bilayer is described by the fluid mosaic model.
This filter is typically found above the NPA motif in aquaporin. This amino acid cluster allows lets aquaporin selectively bind to water.
aquaporins
cell membrane [or plasma membrane]
ar/R selectivity filter [or aromatic/arginine selectivity filter]
These forces always point towards an origin, and their magnitude depends only on the distance between the point and the origin. For 10 points each:
Name this type of force, inverse-square versions of which include gravitational and electrostatic forces.
An important set of laws governing central forces are the three laws of planetary motion named for this physicist. The second one says that an orbiting body sweeps out equal areas in equal time.
This theorem states that the only potentials that can produce stable orbits via central forces are inverse-square forces or radial harmonic oscillator potentials.
central forces
Johannes Kepler
Bertrand's theorem
Splittings in this type of spectroscopy have much higher energies than those in NMR. For 10 points each:
Name this type of spectroscopy that typically uses microwave radiation to excite the spin of unpaired electrons that are placed in a magnetic field.
EPR spectroscopy is used to study these molecules that are formed by homolytic cleavages. Fremy's salt is an example of these highly reactive molecules that have unpaired electrons.
This quantity is equal to the standard enthalpy change caused by a bond being cleaved by homolysis at zero degrees kelvin.
EPR spectroscopy [or Electron Paramagnetic Resonance spectroscopy; or Electron Spin Resonance spectroscopy; or Electron Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy]
free radical
bond-dissociation energy
A double one of these systems is a simple chaotic system, and elliptic integrals are required for a complete description of this system when the small-angle approximation isn't used. For 10 points each:
Name this type of simple harmonic oscillator which consists of a weight on the end of a massless spring.
The period of a pendulum is proportional to this power of the length of the string.
Plotting the pendulum in phase space shows that the trajectories have one of these boundaries at multiples of pi, which separate different modes of a dynamic system.
pendulum
one-half [or square root]
separatrix
These occur at 2.5, 2.82, and 3.27 AU, which correspond to the 3:1, 5:2 and 2:1 orbital resonances with Jupiter. For 10 points each:
Name these sections of the asteroid belt which are notably absent of asteroids.
Some of the asteroids that do lie in the Kirkwood Gaps such as the Alinda family have a high value of this, which in their case is between .4 and .65. This value measures just how non-circular an orbit is.
This other family of asteroids besides the Alinda family are located around 3.2 AU from the sun and are in a 2:1 resonance with Jupiter's orbit. The asteroid Stephengould is a member of this family.
Kirkwood Gaps
orbital eccentricity
Griqua Family
People with the sickle cell trait or the Duffy antigen are more resistant to this organism, and among the proteins on its surface are the STEVOR antigen, PfEMP1, and MSP-1. For 10 points each:
Name this parasitic genus of apicomplexan parasites that cause malaria in humans and is frequently transmitted by the Anopheles genus of mosquito.
Besides invading red blood cells, the sporozoites of plasmodium invade the cells of this organ, where they mature into merozoites.
The falciparum species of malaria is linked to this debilitating condition, in which the parasite lyses so many red blood cells that the free hemoglobin causes kidney failure.
Plasmodium
liver
blackwater fever
Answer some questions about determining the binding affinity of compounds for receptors, for 10 points each:
In one formulation, the binding constant is simply a version of this commonly calculated chemical value, which is usually expressed as products over reactants and symbolized K.
Binding constants can be determined from a Scatchard plot, which are similar to these double- reciprocal plots commonly used in enzyme kinetics.
In this technique, the heat released or absorbed by dripping in small amounts of ligand into a bulb containing a binding partner and comparing to a reference cell.
equilibrium constant [or mass action constant]
Lineweaver-Burke plots
ITC [or isothermal titration calorimetry or isothermal titration calorimeter]
The namesake problem of these things is that the velocity at higher distances from the center are much higher than normal mechanics would predict. For ten points each:
Name this plot of the orbital velocities of bodies in a galaxy as a function of their distance from the center.
The most accepted explanation for the rotation curve problem is the existence of this difficult-to- detect type of matter, which is hypothesized to make up 84% of the matter in the universe.
Lumps of dark matter in the early universe were present in these regions of the primordial plasma, which have greater than normal concentration locally and served as seeds for structure formation.
galactic rotation curves
Dark Matter
overdensity [accept word forms]
The earliest one of these objects discovered was 3C 273, and their spectra displays a suppression around z=6 due to reionization. For 10 points each:
Name this type of active galactic nucleus, radio sources considered to be among the brightest, most distant objects in the universe.
That aforementioned feature of quasar spectra, called the Gunn=Peterson trough, occurs at wavelengths less than that of this electronic transition in hydrogen. It occurs at about 1216 angstroms.
The recent discovery of the Huge Large Quasar Group has cast a lot of doubt on this principle, which states that the universe is homogenous on the largest length scales.
quasar
Lyman‐alpha line
cosmological principle
These molecules contain a constant region that determines its isotype and a hypervariable region that is created from the random assortment of variable, diversity, and joining regions. For 10 points each:
Name these Y‐shaped proteins secreted by B‐cells that recognize antigens circulating in the bloodstream.
B cells are divided into two subclasses, the memory type and this other type, which secrete large quantities of immunoglobulin. These cells rapidly divide in multiple myeloma.
Cleaving an antibody using papain creates the Fc fragment and two of these antigen‐binding fragments.
antibody or immunoglobulin
plasma B cells [or plasmacytes or plasmablasts or effector B cells]
Fab fragments
This statement puts an upper bound on the efficiency of a Carnot engine. For 10 points each:
Name this law, which in one formulation states that for a closed system, the entropy will always increase with time.
This restatement of the Second Law of Thermodynamics states that the line integral of dQ over T for a cyclic process is equal to or less than zero.
Another extension of the Second Law, the fluctuation theorem, is used to derive these relations between linear transport coefficients and correlation functions at equilibrium.
Second Law of Thermodynamics [prompt on partial answers]
Clausius' theorem
Green‐Kubo relations
The mutated protein in this disorder forms misfolded, toxic products, whose effects are amplified by Rhes in the striatum. For 10 points each:
Name this neurodegenerative disease caused by an expansion of CAG repeats in a gene on chromosome 4. This disease causes memory deficits and jerky movements called chorea.
Huntington's disease, like achondroplasiac dwarfism and Marfan's syndrome, is inherited in this fashion.
Htt regulates the production of this secreted growth factor, which binds to TrkB and LNGFR receptors. This protein is required for the genesis and growth of neurons during development of the central nervous system.
Huntington's disease
Autosomal dominant
BDNF [or Brain‐derived neurotrophic factor]
Answer some questions about the perception of pain, for 10 points each:
Pain immediately causes the release of histamine and vasodilators via the "reflex" named for these structures, which are long projections of neurons covered by a myelin sheath.
This peptide is responsible for the perception of pain via its binding to the neurokinin‐1 receptor. Capsacin also stimulates the release of this substance.
An important site controlling the inhibition of pain is the gray matter around the cerebral aqueduct. The aqueduct connects the third and fourth of these fluid‐filled spaces in the brain.
axon
substance P
ventricles
This law is derived by considering a gas of photons in a box, and it says that the spectral radiance is proportional to 2 h nu cubed over the wavelength to the fifth. For 10 points each:
Identify this law, whose namesake form is used in the later Sakuma‐Hattori equation.
Planck's law was used to do away with the ultraviolet catastrophe of the Rayleigh‐Jeans law. Both of these laws describe these objects, which absorb all incoming radiation.
The Stefan‐Boltzmann law says that the irradiance of a blackbody is proportional to this power of the temperature.
Planck's Law
blackbody
fourth
This man names a superbase that is a combination of n‐butyllithium and potassium t‐butoxide. For 10 points:
Name this German chemist, who also names a procedure which uses phenyllithium to switch the configuration of a betaine intermediate in order to create E‐alkenes.
Schlosser names a modification of this other chemical reaction, in which a phosphonium ylide is used to synthesize an alkene from a carbonyl compound.
An important intermediate in the Wittig reaction is this four‐membered ring, which contains both an oxygen and phosphorus atom.
Manfred Schlosser
Wittig reaction
oxaphosphetane
Albert Einstein planted a palm tree at this university, where the Lempel‐Ziv compression algorithm was discovered. For 10 points each:
Name this institute of technology located in Haifa, Israel. Daniel Shechtman, the discoverer of quasicrystals, is also on its faculty.
Another member of the Technion faculty was this really prolific Hungarian mathematician, who lends his name to a distance metric describing how many collaborators connect a given mathematician and him.
Another member of the Technion faculty, Avram Hershko, help characterize this complex, to which proteins tagged with ubiquitin are sent for degradation.
Techion Â– Israel Institute of Technology
Paul Erdos
proteasome
Magnetic set-ups called undulators are used to produce this type of radiation, whose radiated power is given as proportional to the velocity squared in the Larmor Formula. For 10 points each:
Name this type of radiation emitted by a charged particle moving at relativistic speeds when it is kept moving in a circle by a magnetic field.
Synchrotron radiation often emits this form of high frequency radiation, whose wavelength is between .01 and 10 nanometers, and which falls between UV-rays and gamma rays on the electromagnetic spectrum.
These potentials generalize the Larmor formula by taking into account time-retarding effects of special relativity. They separately give the scalar and magnetic vector potentials of a point charge.
synchrotron radiation
X-Rays [or X-Radiation; or Rontgen Radiation]
Lienard-Wiechert Potentials
Neoteny is an example of this phenomenon, which is notably exhibited by the axolotl. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which adult animals retain childlike characteristics into adulthood. Some argue that human women exhibit this effect relative to men as part of sexual dimorphism.
Axolotls are a part of this phylum, which includes cold-blooded tetrapods that usually undergo metamorphosis.
The excretory systems of amphibians often ends at one of these openings, which serves as a common terminus for the digestive, excretory, and reproductive tracts. Thus its a urethra and anus in one opening.
paedomorphosis
amphibians
cloaca
The heat equation and the wave equation are examples of the "partial" equations of this type. For 10 points each:
Name this type of equation whose terms contain a function and its derivatives of various orders.
This method of solving partial differential equations assumes that the solution will be a product of a set of functions of single variables; that product solution is put into the original equation.
This method of solving second-order ordinary differential equations, such as Bessel's Equation, assumes a solution in the form of a power series multiplied by x minus x sub 0 to a power.
differential equations
separation of variables
method of Frobenius
The fingerprint region in this technique's readout appears between 500 to 1500 inverse centimeters, and this technique is most useful for detecting functional groups. For 10 points each:
Name this technique which uses radiation of a longer wavelength than visible light to probe the vibrational modes of compounds.
The stretching mode of alipathic carbonyl compounds appear around this wavenumber on an IR spectrogram. Round to the nearest 100 inverse centimeters.
The only modes that appear on an IR spectroscopy readout are those vibrational modes that change this property of the molecule.
IR spectroscopy [or infrared spectroscopy]
1700
dipole moment
They are named for the fact that they often contain green rocks like serpentine, and they often contain sheeted dyke complexes. For 10 points each:
Name these structures which are pieces of oceanic crust that have been deposited onto continental plates via subduction.
Magnetic stripes in ophiolite complexes are evidence of this process, which is the mechanism by which continental drift occurs. In this process, new crust is created at mid-ocean ridges and pushes the plates away.
This hypothesis stated that rocks surrounding mid-ocean ridges should have alternating magnetic bands due to periodic reversals in the magnetic field.
ophiolites
seafloor spreading
Morley-Vine-Matthews hypothesis [any order is fine]
Gerstmann's syndrome occurs when the dominant side of this lobe is damaged, and damage to it can also cause hemineglect syndrome, where people ignore one half of their visual field. For 10 points each:
Name this lobe of the brain which contains the somatosensory cortex. It is located on the top of the brain.
Damage to the parietal lobe can also cause the ideomotor form of this disorder, a deficit in which people are unable to plan actions. It shouldn't be confused with ataxia, which is lack of coordination.
The parietal lobe is bordered by the central one of these structures, which are the ridges between gyri. That central one separates the primary motor cortex and primary somatosensory cortex.
parietal lobe
apraxia
sulcus or sulci [do NOT accept "fissure"]
Identify these things about the history of the Heliocentric model of the solar system, for 10 points each:
This man was censured and placed under house arrest by the inquisition for espousing the Heliocentric theory in his Dialogue Concerning Two Chief World Systems. He also discovered the four largest moons of Jupiter.
This seminal work by Nicholas Copernicus outlined his theory of the heliocentric universe. It was placed on the index of forbidden books initially and failed to sell very well.
This Persian astronomer, who Copernicus acknowledged, calculated the solar year as about 365 days and 5 hours. He also established several trig identities and tables used for centuries.
Galileo Galilei [accept either underlined portion]
De revolutionibus orbium coelestium [or On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres]
￼Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Jābir ibn Sinān al-Raqqī al-Ḥarrānī al-Ṣābiʾ al-Battānī [or ￼￼Albategnius or Albategni or Albatenius]
More advanced forms of these instruments can be set to begin the sweep in response to some particular signal by appropriately fiddling with the trigger switches. For 10 points each:
Name these instruments which are use to visualize waveforms generated by a circuit. It usually plots voltage versus time and for an AC circuit will often simply show a sinusoidal waveform.
An oscilloscope can be used to generate this wave, which switches between a particular voltage and the negative of that voltage, resulting in a series of horizontal lines connected by vertical ones.
Oscilloscopes are often triggered in this manner, where the trigger is activated if a signal crosses a particular threshold value.
oscilloscope or oscillograph
square wave
edge trigger
These entities are called unconfined when their upper boundary is water that is present above ground, such as a stream or an oasis. For 10 points each:
Name these layers of water-containing material in the earth's crust.
This term refers to confined aquifers with positive pressure. It can also refer to wells made that tap such an aquifer and which can appear to produce water naturally.
Piezometric wells are used to measure this quantity in an aquifer, which is the height that the water rises in a piezometer. It's a proxy for pressure.
aquifers
artesian aquifers [or artesian wells]
hydraulic head
This scientific endeavor was initiated partially as a result of a letter written by Szilard and Wigner. For 10 points each:
Name this weapons project headed by J. Robert Oppenheimer, which culminated in the successful Trinity test at Alamogordo.
The uranium used in the Manhattan project was enriched at this costliest facility of the project, home to the X-10 graphite reactor. It is now home to the Spallation Neutron Source.
A few decades later, China tested its first nuclear weapon, codenamed 596, at this dried up lake.
the Manhattan project
Oak Ridge (National Laboratory)
Lop Nur
According to the Bohr-van Leeuwen theorem, this property of a classical solid must vanish. For 10 points each:
Identify this property of matter that measures the density of a certain kind of dipole moment. Statically, its divergence is equal to the negative divergence of the H-field.
Due to quantum effects, this type of magnet can exist, in which the magnetization depends hysteretically on the applied magnetic field. This phenomenon vanishes above the Curie point, and is found in materials like cobalt.
One model for the quantum origin of ferromagnetism is the Ising model, which consists of a lattice on which each point can take a value of plus or minus one for this property. All particles in a magnetic domain have matching values of this property.
magnetization [or magnetic polarization; do not accept anything else]
ferromagnetism [or word forms]
spin
One disease of this structure can be diagnosed by looking for a positive Nikolsky's sign, and in ichthyosis this structure begins to disintegrate and flake off. For 10 points each:
Name this outer layer of the skin, whose sub-layers include the stratum spinosum and stratum granulosum. Its topmost cells are dead and stuffed with keratin.
Some autoimmune diseases of the skin result from deposition of this pathway. This pathway, which has classical and alternative branches, leads to opsonization and destruction of pathogens.
One method of diagnosing autoimmune diseases is the direct form of this technique, in which a labeled antibody to the constant region of an autoantibody is added to a tissue section and imaged.
epidermis 
complement 
immunofluorescence or IF 
For a continuously differentiable input, this value is merely equal to du dx plus dv dy plus dw dz. For 10 points each:
Name this vector-valued operation often symbolized del dot, which is positive near sources and negative near sinks.
The divergence of the curl of a vector field is always equal to this value.
Gauss' theorem states that the triple integral of the divergence of a vector field is equal to the surface integral of that same vector field dotted by this value.
divergence 
zero
unit normal vector 
To implement a stack data structure, one can use parallel shift registers. But this bonus isn't about data structures. For 10 points each:
A shift register is a series of these circuits connected to the same clock. They come in SR, D, and T types.
One type of Flip-Flop, an SR Latch, can be built from two of this type of logic gate, which with the NAND gate is considered a "universal gate."
Both the NOR and NAND gates implement a type of logic named for this man. This English thinker wrote The Laws of Thought.
flipflop
NOR gate 
George Boole [accept Boolean algebra or Boolean logic]
This quantity used when performing dimensional analysis of convection is important because it does not depend on the fluid's velocity or a characteristic length. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity equal to the ratio of momentum diffusivity to thermal diffusivity.
If the Prandtl number is equal to one, the velocity and thermal versions of this quantity are the same. Symbolized delta, the thermal version of this quantity is the distance between a surface and the point where the temperature is equal to 99% of the free-stream temperature.
Inside the boundary layer, this quantity is non-zero. This quantity measures a fluid's resistance to flow.
Prandtl number [or Prandtl modulus]
thickness of the boundary layer [accept width in place of thickness, prompt on things like "size" for thickness, do not accept "length" at all]
viscosity [accept dynamic viscosity or kinematic viscosity]
This idea was coined by Robert Payne during his studies of a starfish and a mussel. For 10 points each:
Give this term for a species that has a disproportionately large impact on its ecosystem, such that its removal would cause the ecosystem's collapse.
The "apex" type of these creatures are often considered keystone species. In the Lotka-Volterra equation, the number of these is given by the variable y.
Another important type of keystone species are these animals, which are responsible for modifying and creating habitats.
keystone species 
predators 
ecosystem engineers 
One major task of compilers is to generate a parse version of these objects, while pruning is often used on search ones. For 10 points each:
Name these ubiquitous data structures, minimum spanning examples of which are produced by Kruskal's algorithm, and which also come in binary search, AVL, and Red-Black varieties.
In contrast to Kruskal's algorithm, this other greedy minimum spanning tree algorithm works on connected graphs. It grows the solution tree by repeatedly adding the lowest -weight edge which connects a vertex that is not already part of the solution.
Implementation of Kruskal's Algorithm requires a disjoint data structure with an efficient implementation of these two operations. The data structure itself is often simply named for them.
treees 
Prim's Algorithm [or DJP or Jarnik or Prim-Jarnik]
Union-Find [or Merge-Find]
Name these models and people from atomic theory, for 10 points each:
This Danish scientist's model has electrons circle the nucleus in circular orbits. It was able to explain the spectral lines of hydrogen, but fell apart for non-hydrogen atoms.
Bohr's model was an improvement over this model proposed by J.J. Thomson. In it, electrons are stuck in a uniformly positively charged sphere like the food for which the model is named.
This idea, which is superficially similar to atomic theory, was advocated by Pierre Gassendi and John Locke and stated that matter was made of divisible units that have secondary qualities.
Niel Bohr 
plum pudding model
corpuscularianism 
Answer some things you'd see on an early organic chemistry test, for 10 points each:
A common starting point in organic chemistry is comparing the strengths of these compounds, which in the Bronstead-Lowry definition are proton donors.
This effect, in which electron withdrawing groups pull electron density through sigma bonds, is responsible for making trifluoacetic acid much stronger than acetic acid.
Reaction mechanisms are derived using this pen-on-paper method to show how electrons move around during the reaction. This method's namesake symbol represents a pair of electrons.
acids 
inductive effect 
arrow pushing 
Recent data presented at the Hadron Collider Physics conference in Kyoto has some particle physicists fearing they will lose their jobs. For 10 points each:
That data from the LHC has shown that it is unlikely that certain particles predicted by this theory exist. It predicts that every fermion has a partner boson and vice versa.
One of the big draws of supersymmetry was that it provided an answer to this conundrum which is focused on the weak forces' huge strength in comparison to gravity..
Another theory debunked partly due to observation of the Higgs Boson is that there might exist a fourth generation of these particles, three of which make up protons and neutrons.
supersymmetry [or SUSY]
hierarchy problem
quark
The transition between these two stages of mitosis is one of the most crucial checkpoints for cells. For 10 points each:
Identify these two stages of mitosis, one in which the chromosomes are lined up along a namesake plate and the stage following it, in which sister chromatids are separated.
This complex, when bound to Cdc20, is crucial in facilitating the metaphase-to-anaphase transition by cleaving securin, which leads to the release of separase and the separation of sister chromatids.
APC attaches this 76-aa peptide to lysine residues. This very common peptide is attached by its namesake ligases, and in addition to its best known function it's key in vesicular trafficking.
metaphase and anaphase [need both]
Anaphase Promoting Complex [accept cyclosome or APC/C]
ubiquitin
A language with this property is also known as a Type-0 language in the Chomsky hierarchy. For 10 points each:
The characteristic function of these sets is a partial function that halts when testing membership for an element of the set and is undefined otherwise. Computable sets are trivially this type of set.
The first problem shown to be uncomputable was this one. Turing and Church independently furnished proofs that it is impossible to determine whether or not an algorithm will run forever.
The Halting problem was shown to be equivalent to deciding whether there were solutions to a given set of these polynomial equations, in which the variables can only take on integer values.
recursively enumerable [accept computably enumerable, half-decidable, or semidecidable; do not accept or prompt on computable]
Halting problem [prompt on Entscheidungsproblem or decision problem]
Diophantine equations
Among the tools used in this field is formaldehyde cross-linking combined with high-throughput sequencing in order to map histone modifications and find regulatory regions. For 10 points each:
Name this sub-field of biology that is primarily concerned with heritable changes in phenotype other than changes in DNA. Modification of histones are among the changes studied.
DNA methylation most commonly occurs on this pyrimidine nucleotide, which deaminates to uracil and forms three hydrogen bonds with guanine.
In this technique, nuclear DNA-protein complexes are sheared, then an antibody to a particular histone modification or transcription factor is added to pull out bound DNA fragments.
epigenetics (accept word forms)
cytosine or cytidine
chromatin immunoprecipitation or ChIP [prompt on partial answer, accept ChIP-chip or ChIP-seq]
The density of this quantity is divided by epsilon naught in Poisson's Equations and is proportional to the divergence of the electric field by Gauss' Law. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is measured in Coulombs
This special case of Poisson's Equation states that del squared of the electric potential equals zero.
Laplace's equation can be used to prove this theorem, which in one formulation states that no collection of point charges is stable.
charge 
Laplace's equation
Earnshaw's theorem
This quantity can be calculated through the lunar distance method. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, one's distance east or west of the Prime Meridian at Greenwich. It is often reported with one's latitude.
This man's chronometer allowed ships at sea to accurately determine their longitude for the first time. He claimed a 20,000 pound prize offered by the Royal Navy for his work.
This Astronomer Royal was a major proponent of the lunar distances method for calculating longitude. He tried to stop recognition of Harrison, even though his methods yielded greater errors.
longitude 
John Harrison
Nevil Maskelyne 
Answer some questions about black holes, for 10 points each:
Black holes are created when a bunch of matter is compressed down to this length scale, which is equal to 2 G M over c squared.
The A-star radio source in this constellation is believed to be the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy.
This measure for a black hole is proportional to one fourth times its area. The fact that this quantity scales with area rather than volume led to the derivation of the holographic principle.
Schwarzschild radius 
Sagittarius 
entropy 
An extraction of phytoliths from the teeth of this species revealed a strong preference for C3 plants and determined that it ate bark. For 10 points each:
Name this candidate ancestor of the genus Homo discovered in 2008. Despite a humanlike ankle joint, gracile features of this hominin's foot suggest that it may have been partially arboreal.
Australopithecus sediba was discovered in the Cradle of Humankind in this country, where the Mrs. Ples skull of A. africanus was also located. The eagle-slain Taung Child was also discovered in this country, where leading economists include the ex-president's brother, Moletsi Mbeki.
Another person who did social science in Africa was this disciple of Louis Leakey, who combined anthropological and biological observation of gorillas in Rwanda until her 1985 murder.
Australopithecus sediba 
Republic of South Africa 
Dian Fossey
Laser Unequal Path ones modify ones named for Twyman and Green that use collimators and monochromatic light. For 10 points each:
Morley worked with the one of these instruments and their namesake to split a beam of light and recombine it in order to show an example of luminiferous aether, in which quest they failed.
In a follow-up to the Michelson-Morley experiment, this scientist and namesake of a rule concerning the entropy of vaporization used a capacitor to get the same null result.
The Trouton-Noble experiment showed that special relativity has this property, in which experimental results are independent of boosts or orientation of the laboratory in space
Michelson interferometers
Frederick Thomas Trouton [accept Trouton-Noble experiment, but do NOT accept Noble]
Lorentz invariance [or Lorentz symmetric or Lorentz covariance; prompt on partial answer, word forms are acceptable]
Answer some questions about bicoid, a morphogen responsible for anterior-posterior axis formation. For 10 points each:
Bicoid codes for an mRNA that attaches to microtubules at the anterior end of the embryos of these organisms, whose developmental mutants include antennapedia, kruppel, and wingless.
The bicoid gene displays this unusual inheritance pattern, in which mutations in the parent are not manifested until F1. This phenomenon arises when an organism's mother augments the oocyte with protein or RNA.
Maternal effects are a confounding factor when examining contributions to this sum of an organism's observed properties. It is often described as the expression of the genotype.
Drosophila melanogaster [or D. melanogaster]
maternal effect genes 
phenotype 
Moderately strong examples of these groups often have an electronegative atom next to a pi bond adjacent to the ring they are attached to. For 10 points each:
Name these benzene substituents that withdraw electrons through induction or resonance. The classic example of these typically meta-directing substituents is the nitro group.
Unlike stronger ones, these weak deactivators are ortho/para directors. These elements appear in group 17 of the periodic table.
Halides and other deactivators decrease the rate of the "electrophilic aromatic" reaction of this type. "Nucleophilic" reactions of this type can be bimolecular and invert stereochemistry.
deactivators [accept word forms]
halides [accept halogen]
substitution reactions
It postulated the existence of the namesake fiery element. For 10 points each:
This theory, put forth by Johann Becher, held that air had only a certain amount of ability to hold the namesake material, which explained why a fire in an enclosed space would go out.
This English scientist and theologian discovered "dephlogisticated air" which is actually oxygen gas, among other compounds, but refused to give up phlogiston theory.
This other scientist actually discovered oxygen before Priestley, though Priestley published first. He also discovered chlorine gas, which was later named by Sir Humphrey Davy.
phlogiston theory
Joseph Priestley
Carl Wilhem Scheele
Answer some questions about spherical lenses, for 10 points each:
For a spherical lens, this value is equal to one-half times the radius of curvature. It is the distance from the lens at which an image is produced when the object is placed at infinity.
In a spherical lens, this aberrations occurs because different wavelengths of light are refracted differently. It occurs in transverse and axial varieties.
This number describes a material's ratio of dispersion to index of refraction. High values of this number indicate low chromatic aberration, and it's also known as the V-number.
focal length [or f]
chromatic aberration
Abbe number [or constrigence]
In 2010, scientists discovered the f type of this compound present in the cyanobacteria filaments of stromatolites. For ten points each:
Name this porphyrin-containing compound more commonly found in a and b varieties. It is required for photosynthesis and contains a magnesium atom in its center.
This set of proteins contains a single chlorophyll molecule at its center, which is fed energy by antenna complexes. This photosystem transfers energy to plastoquinone and cytochrome b6f.
In this process, certain organelles from algae form a symbiotic relationship with the host, allowing the host to temporarily perform photosynthesis. The only species currently known to undergo this process is the sea slug Elysia chlorotica.
chlorophyll
photosystem II or P680 [prompt on photosystem]
kleptoplasty or kleptoplastidy
There are apparently two different notable mathematicians named Borel. For 10 points each.
The Heine-Borel Theorem says that a subspace has this property if and only if it is closed and bounded. This type of space has the property that picking an infinite number of points in them would get you arbitrarily close to any point.
Armand Borel did a lot of work with these mathematical structures, which are both groups and smooth manifolds.
The Borel-Cantelli is an important result in this field, which assigns a namesake value to subsets of a set and is often used to combine discrete and continuous probability theory.
compact 
Lie groups 
measure theory 
The development of science has been intertwined with that of its hokey brother, pseudoscience. For 10 points each, name some historical examples of quackery.
This quack discipline invented by Samuel Hahnemann employs insanely highly diluted substances. Its so-called remedies often lack any molecules of the compounds they claim to contain.
It's not acupressure, but this discipline uses maps of the organs on the hands or feet to allow practitioners to apply pressure to those organs using their fingers. It also relies on the traditional Chinese concept of qi.
The pathways that qi flows along in both acupuncture and reflexology are known by this name. They are divided into Yin and Yang groups and are most active at certain times of the day.
homeopathy
reflexology 
meridian [or jing luo]
The Shiva and Nova projects were attempts to achieve this process. For 10 points each:
Name this energy-generating process in which two light nuclei are combined to create a heavier nucleus and a bunch of energy. It requires very high temperatures.
In this type of fusion, powerful lasers are used to ignite and smash a pellet of deuterium and tritium in order to overcome the Coulomb barrier.
This criterion states that the heat generated during the fusion process has to exceed the losses. It states that the density times the confinement time has to be above a particular minimum.
nuclear fusion
inertial confinement 
Lawson's criterion
Its linear coefficient is represented by alpha and is higher for metals and structures with loose bonds than other materials. For 10 points each:
Name this process, an increase in dimensions as a result of an increase in temperature. The coefficient of this process for volume is about three times that used for length.
Coefficients of thermal expansion are particularly high for plastics, including this type of plastic which includes bakelite and polyimide resin. Plastics of this type are irreversibly cured by means of heat, chemical transformation, or irradiation and cannot be reshaped by heating.
Because thermal expansion is not uniform in all directions, it is an example of this type of process, which depends on orientation. Cosmic microwave background radiation is another example of this.
thermal expansion [prompt on reasonable answers involving heat]
thermosets
anisotropic process [or anisotropy] 
The quantum hall effect sees this quantity quantized in units of Planck's constant over the square of the elementary charge. For 10 points each:
Name this property of a material symbolized rho that has units of Ohm-meters, the measure of its opposition to the flow of current. For a cylinder, the resistance is equal to this quantity times the length divided by the area of the circle.
At high temperatures, the resistivity of a metal changes approximately linearly with temperature. At low temperatures, this effect occurs, creating a minimum due to the scattering of electrons due to magnetic impurities.
The Kondo effect is an example of this phenomenon from quark physics, since in high temperatures (and therefore a large energy scale), the coupling between the magnetic moment and the electron spin disappears. 
resistivity [don't accept or prompt on conductivity or resistance from people that didn't listen to the whole thing]
Kondo effect
asymptotic freedom 
The construction of the dam has driven the this species of animal, with an incredibly long nose, to near extinciton. Also, the construction of the Gezhouba dam in the 1980's has also facilitated its demise.
Name this Chinese shale deposit, the source of the Chengjiang and Guanshan biota. It gained international recognition after the 1984 discovery of fossils of Misszhouia, members of the class Trilobita.
Like the Burgess shale, the Maotianshan shale contains fossils from this geological period of rapid evolutionary diversification, often referred to as an "explosion." Opabinia and Anomalocaris are other genera from this first Paleozoic period.
These generally sessile organisms preceded the Cambrian explosion and have not been successfully classified. They are named for an Australian mountain range where some were discovered and the discovery of burrows indicates that some may have been bilaterian.
Maotianshan shale
Cambrian Period
Ediacaran biota [accept any answers with Ediacara] 
NOTE TO MODERATOR: DO NOT READ THE ALTERNATE ANSWER TO THE FIRST PART p53 downregulates expression of the cdc25A gene, which induces the cell to pass through this checkpoint. For 10 points each:
Name this checkpoint in the cell cycle which determines whether or not a cell will eventually divide.
This phase of the cell cycle occurs before the restriction point, between the mitotic and S phases. If a cell does not pass the restriction point, it moves from this stage into G0.
This family of genes, which inhibit the E2F family of transcriptional activators, are essential for maintaining cells in G0. When it is phosphorylated by cyclins, cells reenter the cell cycle.
restriction point [DO NOT READ THIS ALTERNATE ANSWER ALOUD, but accept G1/S checkpoint if it's said]
G1
Rb [or retinoblastoma protein; or retinoblastoma gene product]
Answer the following about the chemistry of nitro compounds, for 10 points each.
A 1,1 halonitroalkane is a reactant in this nucleophilic aliphatic substitution where sodium nitrile catalyzes the protonation of a nitro- group in the original reactant.
Syntheses of these compounds often begin with aromatic nitro compounds. Examples include the Bartoli one, which also involves Grignard reagents, and the Baeyer-Emmerling one which is catalzyed by iron powder in strong base.
The Nef reaction, where a nitroalkane salt is converted into an aldehyde or ketone in the presence of strong acid, is an example of one of these reactions.Common example of these reactions is the production of glucose and fructose from sucrose and the breakdown of proteins by proteases.
ter Meer reaction
indoles 
hydrolysis
The experiment often used to explain this phenomenon involves the interference pattern of electrons being affected by the magnetic field inside a solenoid. For 10 points each:
Name this doubly eponymous effect in which the phase of the electrons is shifted though there is no magnetic field outside the solenoid.
The phase shift in the Aharonov-Bohm effect is dependent on this quantity, whose curl is the magnetic flux density.
David Bohm co-names an interpretation of quantum mechanism with this French scientist. A given particle's characteristic named for this man can be found by dividing Plank's constant by its momentum.
Ehrenberg Siday Aharonov Bohm effect
magnetic vector potential [prompt on A]
: Louis de Broglie
Waste-to-energy conversion facilities can produce the syngas that is used as a feedstock for this process, and vertical fixed tube or slurry reactors are often used to carry out this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which hydrocarbons are created from carbon monoxide and hydrogen
Catalysts based on this metal are generally avoided in Fischer-Tropsch reactors because it leads to increased formation of methane. A catalyst consisting of an alloy of this metal and aluminum activated with sodium hydroxide is named for its discoverer William Raney 
The length of hydrocarbons produced by the Fischer-Tropsch process follows a distribution partially named for this chemist, who also co-names a theory modeling the thermodynamics of polymer solutions.
Fischer-Tropsch process
: nickel [or Ni]
Paul Flory
This class of molecules differ from glycerophospholipids and galactolipids in that they lack glycerol, and these molecules contain a similarly named long chain amino alcohol. For 10 points each:
Name this class of molecules, the simplest one of which is ceramide. Carbohydrate moities of some of these molecules determine human blood types.
A certain class of sphingolipids which have phosphocholine or phosphoethanolamine as their polar head are particularly abundant in this material, which insulates neural axons. It is produced by Schwann cells.
These sphingolipids have sialic acid residues at their termini  and oligosaccharides at their heads. Tay-Sachs disease occurs when one of these molecules is not broken down and accumulates in neurons.
sphinolipids 
myelin sheath [or sphingomyelins]
gangliosides [or GM2 gangliosides] 
These proto-oncogenes encode transcription factors with basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper domains. For 10 points each:
Disregulation of the c- gene in this family has been linked to Burkitt's Lymphoma, while the n- gene is associated with neuroblastomas.
Myc protein regulates gene expression by binding to these transcription factor binding sites. They are located in promoter regions of eukaryotic DNA and have sequence CACGTG.
Myc protein also regulates gene expression by inducing the acetylation of two families of these proteins that DNA spools around to form nucleosomes.
myc 
Enhancer Boxes [or E-boxes]
histones
Name some hydrothermal vents, for 10 points each:
These rare springs periodically release bursts of hot water and steam that can tower many tens of meters in the air. Examples of this type of vent include Strokkur and Old Faithful.
These colorfully-named underwater vents emit columns of sulfides and other material that solidify into chimney-like structures as the minerals precipitate out when the superheated water contacts the freezing sea water. A group of five in the mid-Atlantic ocean is named Loki's Castle.
Named for the Latin for smoke, these fissures in the Earth's surface emit steam. They can occur in namesake fields, usually in the neighborhood of volcanoes.
geysers 
black smokers [prompt on sea vent]
furamoles
It was developed by considering manganese oxide and copper chloride. For 10 points each:
Name this theory that describes the effect that surrounding positive charges have on the energies of valence electrons. It was later combined with molecular orbital theory into the more accurate and powerful ligand field theory.
This is the list of ligands or metals ordered by how much change they produce in the energy of d orbitals. That difference is called the ligand field splitting parameter or crystal field splitting parameter.
This effect is the decrease of the B Racah parameter when a transition metal bonds with a ligand. The size of the reduced Racah parameter forms this effect's namesake series, which is similar to the spectrochemical series.
Crystal Field Theory 
Spectrochemical Series
Nephelauxetic effect or series
One form of this law shows that the magnetic field is proportional to the gradient solid angle swept out by an area element of a loop. For 10 points each:
Name this law whose general form states that the magnetic field is proportional to the volume integral of a current density crossed with the radial unit vector divided by the distance to the current density squared.
The Biot-Savart law applies when this approximation holds. In this case, currents are steady and the displacement current term in AmpÃ¨re's law can be neglected.
In the relativistic limit, the Biot-Savart law becomes this equation. In cgs units, this equation states that the B-field is given by the all-space integral of the retarded current density, divided by the cube of the distance, plus the time partial of the retarded current density, divided by the distance squared times c, all crossed into the distance vector.
the Biot-Savart law
magnetostatics [prompt on static or steady-state]
Jefimenko's (second) equation
Closely related to botulinum toxin, the toxin produced in this infection cleaves certain proteins integral for vesicle exocytosis. For 10 points each:
Name this disease caused by a Clostridium species, which is often contracted by stepping on rusty nails.
Tetanospasmin and botulinum toxin both cleave these proteins, which come in t and v varieties. Examples include synaptobrevin and syntaxin.
These GTP-binding proteins of the ras family can interact with COPI. They were first encountered as cofactors of the cholera toxin.
tetanus 
SNAREs
ADP Ribosylation Factors (prompt on incomplete answers like "ribosylation factors") 
A 1974 paper by Sidney Coleman showed that this cannot happen for continuous situations when the dimension is equal to or lower than 2. For 10 points each:
Identify this physical process, in which a system assumes, on its own, a particular orientation. This process is characterized by solutions to the equation of motion which are not invariant under some interchange operator.
A classic example of spontaneous symmetry breaking is the alignment of domains in a ferromagnet below this temperature, above which a ferromagnetic material become paramagnetic.
According to this theorem, every spontaneously broken continuous symmetry results in the appearance of massless fields, together with this theorem's namesake bosons.
spontaneous symmetry breaking 
Curie point 
Goldstone theorem
These structures are the site of the seismically active Wadati-Benioff zones, and it was once theorized that melting of the crust in these structures gives rise to so-called "arc magmas." For 10 points each:
Name these areas at which one tectonic plate slides under another.
Colder and thicker parts of tectonic plates are theorized to sink because of the temperature differential by this mechanism, which is contrasted with rigid push mechanism.
Eclogite is generally produced in subduction zones from basalt or this other mafic igneous rock, which, like basalt, is primarily composed of plagioclase feldspar and pyroxene. Unlike basalt, it is made up of coarse grains.
subduction zones 
slab pull forcing/mechanism
gabbro
Function or operator overloading is an example of the "ad-hoc" type of this feature. For 10 points each:
Name this feature, the ability of some functions to handle inputs of different data types.
System F implements a form of parametric polymorphism and extends this formalism, invented by Alonzo Church to represent computation in terms of functions.
This problem of typed systems asks whether two expressions can be made identical by substituting expressions for the variables in those expressions. Those expressions for which this can be done form an equivalence class.
polymorphism
lambda calculus 
unification [accept word forms]
The final step of this reaction, which involves treatment with acetic anhydride and pyridine, is irreversible. For 10 points each:
Name this non-amino acid counterpart of the Maillard reaction in which the N-glycoside of a closed-form aldose is rearranged into an open form 1-amino ketose.
The Amadori reaction is an important process in this subdivision of organic chemistry, which deals with macromolecular carbon-, hydrogen-, and oxygen- only compounds with general formula Cm(H2O)n.
The final step of the Amadori rearrangement transforms an alcohol and this functional group to the final product. Oximes and hydrazones are more specific forms of this functional group.
Amadori rearrangement [or Amadori reaction]
carbohydrate chemistry
imine [or Schiff base] 
The first experimental confirmation of this effect came about through the observation of the "twin quasar." For 10 points each:
Identify this consequence of general relativity in which light curves as it travels around a massive body.
If a point lens is interposed directly along the line of sight to an observer, the bottom of the lensing parabola becomes a dimple, whose edge becomes this feature with a characteristic radius dependent on the square root of the mass.
This tensor quantity for a gravitational lens, typically given as the inverse of a matrix, is defined as the derivative of the image position with respect to the source position. Its determinant gives a scalar factor equal to quantity one minus convergence, squared, minus shear squared, all to the minus one power.
gravitational lensing 
Einstein ring 
magnification
Substages within this process include leptotene and zygotene, which occur early in prophase I (one). For 10 points each:
Name this cellular process, the production of haploid daughter cells from diploid parents.
The genetic recombination that occurs between homologous chromosomes during meiosis results in the formation of these four-armed DNA structures, which are cleaved by resolvases to generate crossover and non-crossover products.
Holliday junctions are especially likely to be located near these sites, one artificial example of which is HIS4/LEU2 in yeast. Allelic variation in PRDM9 affects the usage of a subset of these entities, and in humans, several particularly active ones are found at the MHC class II locus.
meiosis 
Holliday junctions [accept double Holliday junctions]
recombination hotspots
Heeger, MacDiarmid, and Shirakawa won a Nobel for showing that a doped version of a polymerized version of this compound conducted electricity. For 10 points each:
Name this simple compound with formula C2H2, which contains two carbon atoms triple-bonded to each other.
The polyacetylene was doped with oxidized versions of this element. This element is the central atom in the Dess-Martin reagent and when added to a solution of peroxide, sulfuric acid, and thiosulfate, is the basis of a simple clock reaction.
Another important group of conducting compounds are these species, in which a ligand and a metal share electrons in their molecular orbitals. Iodine and starch form one example
acetylene or ethyne
iodine 
charge-transfer complexes 
One restatement of this theorem states that if X is a T4-space, every continuous bounded function from a closed subset of X can be extended to the whole space. For 10 points each:
Identify this generalization of Urysohn's lemma that states that if there exists a continuous map for some subset of a normal topological space to the real numbers, there exists another such map from the whole space to the reals.
T4 spaces are both normal and have the property named for these spaces, which states that different points have disjoint neighborhoods. They are also known as T2 spaces.
The result of applying this binary operation to two compact spaces results in a compact space, according to Tychonoff's theorem. Applying this operation to two instances of the real line produces the plane.
Tietze's extension theorem
Hausdorff spaces 
[Cartesian] product 
For 10 points each, answer the following about the control of circadian rhythms.
Zeitgebers are exogenous sources that synchronizes the body's internal clock with the external environment. The most important zeitgeber is this one, where presence of a stimulus of this type at night will make sleep onset later. This stimulus is detected by proteins like cryptochromes
Zeitgebers deflect these curves upward or downward depending the time of day when the zeitgeber is presented to the body. They can also be used to model heartbeat, as they model transient changes in oscillations due to various perturbations.
The master clock of mammalian circadian rhythms is this part of the hypothalamus, which is directly innervated by retinal ganglion cells as well as melanopsin-secreting ganglion cells. This brain region then sends information to the pineal gland to control hormone secretion
light
phase response curve [or PRC]
superchiasmatic nucleus [or SCN]
The troposphere is named for its reliance on turbulent systems to circulate gases in the atmosphere. For 10 points each, answer some questions about it.
One secondary form of circulation is this circulation cell that is centered on the mid latitudes, and relies on both the Hadley and polar cells. It is characterized by a highly discontinuous wind pattern.
The rate at which temperature decreases in the troposphere as the height increases is known as this, which is about 10 degrees celsius per kilometer. At the poles, the decrease is slightly lower than at the equatior.
The boundary at which the lapse rate becomes zero is known as this, and this layer separates the troposphere from the lower stratosphere. Thunderclouds may undergo vertical oscillations and pass through this region.
Ferrell cell
lapse rate 
tropopause 
These devices operate by passing a stream of their namesake particles through a sinusoidally spatially varying magnetic field, resulting in coherent radiation. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of device, whose resultant emission frequency is tunable by altering the periodicity of the applied magnetic field.
The free electron laser is a special application of this type of radiation, which is emitted whenever a relativistic charged particle undergoes acceleration.
In the relativistic regime, the synchrotron radiation pattern peaks at an angle proportional to the inverse of this quantity. The power radiated in a synchrotron process is proportional to this quantity's sixth power.
free electron laser [prompt on "undulator" or "wiggler"]
synchrotron radiation
Lorenz factor [or gamma]
To solve this problem, one must demonstrate the existence or non-existence of a set of truth values for a collection of variables such that every chain of disjunctions of literals evaluates to true. For 10 points each:
Name this problem which may be solved by the DPLL algorithm, and which is the subject of Cook's theorem.
SAT was the first problem proven to be in this complexity class. All problems in a superclass of this class are reducible to members of this class in polynomial time.
Decision algorithms in this system of arithmetic have a doubly-exponential worst-case runtime. It consists only of addition and equality, unlike its more general but undecidable counterpart, Peano arithmetic.
boolean satisfiability problem [or SAT]
NP-Complete [do not accept "P" or "NP"]
Presburger arithmetic 
Name some things about a type of chemical reaction, for 10 points each:
In one example of this reaction, a strong base is applied to an alkyl halide. The base removes a hydrogen, causing two carbons to form a double bond and the leaving group to depart.
In cyclohexane derivatives, E2 reactions proceed more smoothly if the hydrogen and the leaving group are in this type of arrangement, which requires the molecule to be in a chair formation. It is analogous to the anti-periplanar geometry favored in E2 reactions of non-cyclic compounds.
The related E1cb reaction takes place in two steps, the first of which is the formation of this type of intermediate. Grignard reagents and other organometallic molecules act as stable versions of this class of charged organic compounds.
E2 reaction or bimolecular elimination reaction (accept words in either order, prompt on elimination, do not accept unimolecular elimination or E1)
trans-diaxial geometry
carbanion
It may be assigned roughly by considering each residue's place in a Ramachandran plot. For 10 points each:
Name this local three-dimensional form of a protein, usually described in terms of various sheets, turns, and helices.
This algorithm developed in 1983 assigns a probable secondary structure based on atom position information and a calculation of hydrogen bond energies between atoms.
This method of secondary structure prediction bases its calculations on the likelihood a given amino acid is in a particular structure, but also uses Bayesian analysis based on whether an amino acid's neighbors formed a given structure.
protein secondary structure
DSSP [or Dictionary of Secondary Structure]
GOR method [or Garnier-Osguthorpe-Robson]
The van der Bergh reaction detects levels of this compound. For 10 points each:
Name this yellow-brown pigment in bile that causes skin discoloration in sufferers of jaundice.
Bilirubin takes the form of an open chain type of this structure. Bilirubin is catabolized from heme, which, instead of being open-chained, is connected to a porphyrin ring.
This autosomal recessive disorder is marked by an increase in the level of conjugated bilirubin without a corresponding increase the associated liver enzymes. Sufferers have pigmented liver cells, unlike sufferers of the similar Rotor syndrome.
bilirubin
tetrapyrrole
Dubin-Johnson syndrome
Gamma-Valorum is one example of these stars, which evolved from luminous blue variables. For 10 points each:
Name these massive stars that lose approximately ten to the negative five solar masses every year.
Wolf-Rayet stars lose mass because of this phenomenon, which occurs above the Eddington limit. This phenomenon is the ejection of a steam of charged particles by a star, and its solar variety occurs in the sun's corona.
Solar wind can distort this shape, which is the shape of the Sun's magnetic field. In strong solar wind, it takes a toroidal shape, instead of the more common poloidal shape.
Wolf-Rayet stars 
stellar wind 
Parker spirals 
In the relativistic limit, the differential cross-section for this process can be obtained from the Weiszacker-Williams method of virtual quanta. For 10 points each:
Identify this process in which collisions between charged particles result in rapid acceleration and emission of electromagnetic radiation.
In the non-relativistic limit, the bremsstrahlung radiation pattern is identical to the pattern produced by this arrangement, an example of which is an antenna driven by a sinusoidal current, or two charges separated by some distance.
The radiation cross section acquires a logarithmic multiplicative factor worked out by Bethe and Heitler when this phenomenon is present. This phenomenon transforms the bare Coulomb potential into the Yukawa potential.
bremsstrahlung 
dipole 
screening 
Saxitoxin produced by dinoflagellates hinders the function of these proteins. For 10 points each:
Name these proteins usually attached to the cell membrane that help establish a voltage gradient on different sides of the cell membrane. One subtype of them can be poisoned by tetrodotoxin.
This family of ion channel proteins contains GABA receptors and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. They are all composed of a five-part arrangement of subunits around a central ion-conducting pore. They are named for a conserved disulfide structure separated by 13 residues.
Receptors for this simplest neurotransmitter and amino acid are also cys-loop receptors.
ion channel proteins [or voltage-gated ion channels; prompt on sodium channels]
cys-loop receptors [or pentameric ligand gated ion channels; accept LGICs; or nicotinicoid receptors]
: glycine [or gly; or g]
Identify some stuff about a common chemical process, for 10 points each.
This is the most common way to create H2SO4, replacing the lead chamber process. It involves creating sulfur trioxide and then turning that into concentrated sulfuric acid.
Platinum catalysis of the contact process is technically more efficient, but less economical. The process is instead catalyzed using an oxide of this metal, which is often found in small amounts in high grade steel.
This other catalyst, which includes platinum, is a dark brown powder that, when exposed to hydrogen, turns into platinum black, which is used in hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis.
contact process
vanadium
Adams' catalyst [or platinum dioxide; or PtO2-H2O]
For 10 points, answer the following about my main man Triple H, Harry Hammond Hess.
Hess' work on island arcs provided plenty of justification for this theory, espoused by Hess and others. This theory states that new oceanic crust is formed in the middle of the ocean through volcanic activity.
Hess discovered and named these flat-topped underwater volcanoes after a 19th century geographer.
The cyclical opening and closing of the Atlantic seafloor over the ages is known as this geologist's namesake cycle. His paper, "A new class of fault and their bearing on continental drift" introduced the concept of the transform fault, and he also formulated the hotspot theory.
seafloor spreading 
guyots [prompt on seamounts]
John Tuzo Wilson
The finite electric dipole moment of the neutron would indicate that both parity and this symmetry are violated. For 10 points each:
Identify this symmetry which, when composed with charge inversion and parity inversion yields a universally conserved symmetry.
This alleged paradox demonstrates that Boltzmann's H-theorem does not respect time reversal symmetry. This paradox can be resolved through the fluctuation-dissipation theorem.
These relations state that the cross-coefficients for kinetic coefficients in irreversible processes are equal. 
time reversal [or inversion] symmetry
Loschmidt's paradox 
Onsager reciprocity relations
The merohedral variety of this phenomenon is exhibited by metazeunerite, in which lattice formations are rotated relatively between separate crystals, while the cyclic variety results from nonparallel alignment when more than two crystals are involved. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that occurs when two different crystals grow into each other due to shared crystal lattice points.
While it usually exhibits Carlsbad twinning, this type of feldspar, also called alkali feldspar and contrasted with plagioclase, sometimes undergoes Baveno and Manebach twinning. Moonstone is largely made up of this kind of feldspar.
The Cottrell-Bilby pole mechanism is a theory of crystal twinning in this type of lattice structure, which has a coordination number of 8 and packing fraction of about 0.68.
crystal twinning
orthoclase
body centered cubic
These functions are formed by multiplying the Bloch wavefunction by a phase factor and then summing over all the resultant wavefunctions within the Brillouin zone. For 10 points each:
Identify this orthonormal set of functions useful in band theory.
The Bloch functions from which the Wannier functions are constructed are solutions to a Hamiltonian with this type of potential, which has a characteristic repeating scale. A lattice is one example.
Band theory is typically developed by considering the Bloch wave solutions to this model, which approximates a lattice as an infinite series of square wells.
Wannier functions 
periodic potential
Kronig-Penny model
Hemoglobin exhibits a sigmoidal affinity curve for oxygen, for 10 points each:
This means that hemoglobin cannot be studied using this equation from enzyme kinetics, with which a reaction's rate may be found by dividing V-max by its namesake constant plus the substrate concentration. The double reciprocal version of this equation can be used to generate a Lineweaver-Burke plot.
Hemoglobin and other enzymes with sigmoidal affinity curves can be studied using this equation, whose namesake constant describes the cooperativity of binding.
In this effect, hemoglobin exhibits a lower carrying capacity, as opposed to affinity, for oxygen at low pH. It is especially pronounced in bony fishes.
Michaelis-Menten
Hill equation 
Root effect [don't accept Bohr effect]
Answer the following relating to camouflage, for 10 points each.
These species contained primarily within the superfamily Majoidea disguise themselves by attaching algae, anemones, and various other parts of the environment to their shells.
Decorator crabs use this technique of which camouflage is a form in which protection is conveyed by the concealing of an organism from predators.
Crabs are a member of this order, which also includes shrimp and lobsters. Its name comes from the fact that members have five pairs of two legs.
decorator crabs 
crypsis
decapoda 
Opal, amber, and ochre mutations suppress this type of mutation by allowing "readthrough" of UAA, UAG, and UGA codons. For 10 points each:
Name this type of mutation in which a premature stop codon is inserted in a gene.
This other type of mutation consists of the growth of namesake sequences that code for a string of the same amino acid. The lengthening of these sequences from generation to generation in Huntington's disease is the cause of genetic anticipation.
This larger-scale type of mutation happens to a gene in a diploid organism when its one remaining wild-type allele is mutated or deleted. This kind of mutation, which can arise from large-scale deletions due to genomic instability, is the second "hit" in Knudson's two-hit hypothesis.
nonsense mutations
trinucleotide repeat expansion [prompt on incomplete answer]
loss of heterozygosity [or LOH]
Both Hoogstein bonding and more conventional base-pairings consist of this type of interactions between two nucleotides. For 10 points:
Name this type of inter- or intramolecular dipole-dipole bonding in which one partner is usually an electronegative element like nitrogen or oxygen.
These descriptors measure solvent polarity in terms of hydrogen bond donating and accepting properties as well as polarizability.
This other type of intermolecular interaction is described by the Hunter-Sanders model. This attractive, noncovalent interaction between aromatic rings exists between bases on the same strand of DNA and contributes to DNA stability
hydrogen bond [or H-bond]
Kamlet-Taft parameters
pi stacking [or base stacking; do not accept "base pairing"]
This quantity is defined as having a nonzero value in the unsymmetrical phase and zero in the symmetrical phase. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity central to Landau's phenomenological theory of phase transitions.
The order parameter goes continuously to zero for phase transitions of this type, which include the transition to ferromagnetism and the transition of liquid crystals into a nematic phase.
Another example of a second-order phase transition is this transition in helium, an example of a Bose-Einstein condensation, which occurs at 2.17 Kelvin, a temperature that corresponds to a kink in the heat capacity-temperature graph called the lambda point.
order parameter 
second order phase transition [or phase transition of the second kind]
superfluid transition
Methods of this type maximize the margins around a hyperplane that divides the data. For 10 points each:
Identify this class of supervised learning methods from statistical machine learning. It takes its name from those elements of the data which lie on one of the hyperplanes.
A typical use of an SVM is for this task, in which data must be sorted into a number of pre-trained categories.
Classification may also be performed using this method, in which a prior probability is multiplied by a class likelihood and divided by the evidence to obtain a posterior probability.
support vector machines [prompt on "kernel methods"]
classification [accept word forms]
Bayesian method 
 Leon Henkin proved its completeness by constructing a model from constant expansions. For 10 points each:
Name this formal language first proven complete by Godel, who showed that it has a proof calculus for which consistency and satisfiability are equivalent.
This theorem follows from completeness and states that a set is satisfiable if every finite subset is satisfiable.
First-order logic expands on propositional logic by adding these objects, symbolized by a backwards E and an inverted A, which stand for "there exists," and "for all," and which limit the domain of discourse.
first-order logic [or predicate logic]
compactness theorem
quantifiers
Reacting phenol with nitrous acid in the presence of mineral acid generates an unstable product that can act as an electrophile to attack another phenol molecule. For 10 points:
Name this electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction that is important in dye production.
Sulfa drugs can be produced either by diazo coupling or by this reaction, in which an amine and a carboxylic acid are acylated under biphasic basic conditions to form an amide.
Another electrophilic aromatic substitution is this reaction, which adds alkyl or aryl halides to an aromatic compound in the presence of a strong Lewis acid.
diazo coupling [or azo coupling; or diazonium coupling]
Schotten-Bauman reaection
Friedel-Crafts alkylation [or Friedel-Crafts acylation]
Carol Greider purified this enzyme from Tetrahymena extracts while working in Elizabeth Blackburn's lab. For 10 points:
Name this enzyme consisting of a reverse transcriptase bound to an RNA template that adds repetitive sequences to chromosome ends.
Because telomerase is not active in most somatic cells, most cells have a fixed number of times they can divide before their telomeres become too short to support further replication. That replicative lifespan is given this name.
When telomeres become too short, they become substrates for this form of DNA repair that relies upon the Ku70/Ku80 heterodimer binding broken DNA. The action of this pathway upon telomeres results in breakage-fusion-breakage cycles.
telomerase
Hayflick limit
non-homologous end-joining [or NHEJ]
Experiments of this type were thus used to provide experimental proof of the parton model. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of scattering experiment in which a lepton is used to probe hadronic structure, so named for the fact that the hadron breaks up rather than stay intact.
Bjorken scaling holds that at high enough energies, the structure functions used to calculate the cross section no longer depend on the square of the momentum transfer; this implies that the lepton is interacting with a free one of these particles, which come in three generations and include up, charm, and bottom.
The parton model can be derived using this formalism, which factorizes the structure functions of DIS experiments into long-range and short-range dependence. This formalism relies on the fact that the strong coupling constant is small at short distances, allowing for a namesake expansion.
deep inelastic scattering
quarks
perturbative quantum chromodynamics
Extracellular DNA and alginate act as a support network in this type of community. For 10 points each:
Name this type of bacterial lifestyle which is induced by carbon starvation in the soil bacterium Myxococcus xanthus.
Biofilm formation is triggered when local population density hits a threshold concentration, an example of this phenomenon which also controls lux gene expression in Vibrio fischeri.
A density-dependent mechanism similar to quorum-sensing dictates modes of sexual reproduction in monogononts, a class in this phylum of wheel-shaped water-dwelling microorganisms
biofilms 
quorum sensing 
rotifiers
. Unlike earlier methods, it permits the detection of multiply charged species with little fragmentation. For 10 points:
Name this improvement upon mass spectroscopy in which the analyte is delivered to the mass spectrometer as an aerosol
The combination of repulsion between adjacent cations and attraction to the mass spec inlet results in the formation of one of these eponymous shapes during electrospray ionization.
Coulombic explosions occur in the Taylor cone when this limit is reached. Occurring when cationic repulsion equals surface tension, this limit's namesake also discovered the form of inelastic scattering that is responsible for the blue color of the sky.
electrospray ionization [or ESI]
Taylor cone
John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh
Characterizing these types of motions for a system of coupled oscillators is equivalent to simultaneously diagonalizing the mass and potential matrices. For 10 points each:
Identify these types of motions in such a system, where all coordinates oscillate with the same frequency; the frequencies themselves are exactly the eigenvalues of the diagonalized potential matrix.
Another way of finding the normal modes of a system is to find this function for the system of differential equations describing it. This function is an integral kernel used to solve inhomogenous differential equations with boundary conditions.
The Green's function encodes the response of a linear system to a stimulus described by this function, which is zero everywhere except where its argument is zero, where it is infinite.
normal modes [prompt on "simple harmonic motion"]
Green's function
Dirac delta function [do not accept "Kronecker delta"]
In solids, this band is completely filled at absolute zero temperature, but at temperatures above that, electrons can jump to higher levels because of thermal energy. For 10 points each:
Identify this band of energy states which lies below the conduction band in semiconductors but overlaps with it in metals.
The valence band is approximately 1.42 electron-Volts below the conduction band in this III/V (three-five) semiconductor, which is ubiquitous in infrared sources and was used to create the first LED.
Though most semiconductor optical devices rely on transitions from the conduction band to the valence band, these devices rely on repeating inter-subband transitions. They consist of a periodic superlattice under an applied electric field, which allows an electron to emit a photon, tunnel through one layer, and repeat the process.
valence band
Gallium arsenide
Quantum cascade lasers or QCLs
This construct is created by imagining an event at some specific point, and then tracing the expanding and contracting circle forwards and backwards in time. For 10 points each:
Identify this visualization tool from relativity, a surface of simultaneity which shows how an event's past is divided from its future.
If for any point p in a spacetime a light cone with a well-defined future and past can be constructed as p varies continuously, the spacetime is said to have this property with respect to time.
A spacetime has the stable version of this property if a global time function can be defined on the spacetime, eliminating the possibility of closed time-like curves. Colloquially, it means that future events cannot influence past ones.
light cone
orientable [accept word forms]
causality
One member of this class of drugs inhibits thromboxane A2, thereby reducing platelet aggregation. For 10 points each:
Name this class of pain-relieving drugs that includes aspirin and ibuprofen.
Nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitors, like conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, increase the risk of these stomach lesions which can also be caused by Helicobacter pylori.
H. pylori promotes inflammation of cells in the stomach by secreting peptidoglycan into them. Peptidoglycan is recognized by Nod1, a member of this family of proteins that are expressed by cells of the innate immune system and which recognize antigens like lipopolysaccharide and other carbohydrates.
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [or NSAIDs; prompt on anti-inflammatory drugs]
peptic ulcers
primitive pattern recognition receptors [or PRRs; or pathogen recognition receptors]
One of these events near Nyos in 1986 resulted in almost 2000 deaths by asphyxiation. For 10 points each:
Name these events in which a disturbance in a stably stratified body suddenly brings large quantities of gas out of solution.
The eruptions of Lakes Monoun and Nyos released large quantities of this greenhouse gas whose solid form is known as dry ice.
Lake Nyos lies in one of these shallow craters formed by a phreatic explosion. Unlike tuff rings, they cut into the substrate.
lake eruptions [or limnic eruptions; or lake overturns]
carbon dioxide [or CO2]
maars
Variation between the expected and observed values of this factor result from electrostatic interactions of ions in solution that affect the effective concentration of a solute. For 10 points:
Name this correction factor.
The van't Hoff factor is often used to describe these sorts of properties, which depend on the number of particles in solution rather than the type of solute that is dissolved.
A van't Hoff factor may also be used to account for this nonideal behavior of polyionic solutions, in which the presence of a nonpermeable charged species on one side of a membrane causes an uneven distribution of a second membrane-permeable charged species.
van't Hoff factor
colligative properties
Gibbs-Donnan effect or law or equilibrium
Uses of these expressions include the calculation of Ohm's law conductivity in flows of charged particles as well as the calculation viscosity. For 10 points each:
Identify these double-eponymous expressions which relate transport coefficients to integrals of equilibrium fluctuations
The Green-Kubo relations are often derived by considering an a very small applied field; thus, they are only valid in a regime described by this term, which implies that all response terms of order two and higher may be discarded.
The Green-Kubo formalism can be used to obtain the transport coefficient for this process, which is also obtainable via the Einstein relation. This process, modeled by Fick's Law, is spread of particles via random motion.
Green-Kubo relations [accept either order]
linear regime [or linear response theory]
diffusion
Name some things about the Calvin cycle, for 10 points each:
This substance is the first product of carbon fixation. Two molecules of it are produced in the first step of the Calvin cycle.
This is the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of carbon dioxide to phosphoglyceric acid. It is the most prevalent enzyme on earth by weight.
Carbon fixation by RuBisCo begins when RuBisCo generates this form of ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate. More generally, these are species containing a carbon-carbon double bond with hydroxyl groups on either side of the double bond.
3-phosphoglyceric acid or PGA
RuBisCo or ribulose-1,5-bis phosphate carboxylase
enediol
In this scheme, the values x and y are selected such that they satisfy an equation of the form "y-squared equals x-cubed plus a times x plus b," where a and b are integers modulo some prime p. For 10 points each:
Identify this cryptographic scheme which uses as a private key an integer chosen randomly from between 1 and the order of the group generated by the point at x, y and as a public key the private key times the group.
Elliptic curve cryptography relies on the difficulty of solving this problem, in which given a cyclic group of order n with generator g, and a public key equal to g raised to the x, the task is to find x which has been selected randomly from the interval between 1 and n minus 1, inclusive.
Elliptic curve cryptography is an alternative to schemes such as RSA, which rely on the computational intractability of performing this operation, the decomposition of an integer into all its multiplicative components.
elliptic curve cryptography [prompt on "discrete log" cryptography but DO NOT read it as a possible answer; see second part]
discrete logarithm problem
prime factorization [accept anything that mentions primes]
Both the short basic and bipartite types of this sequence are rich in lysine and arginine and usually contain proline. For 10 points each:
Name this targeting sequence that is bound by importin to facilitate the transfer of proteins to a certain organelle.
Nuclear localization may also be accomplished by attaching one copy of this 76-amino acid protein to a target protein. Attachment of long chains of this highly transcribed protein marks target proteins for degradation by the proteasome.
In another example of targeting proteins to organelles, the presence of this four-amino-acid sequence on a protein ensures that it will not be transported out of the endoplasmic reticulum. Its namesake retention receptors retrieve it from the Golgi apparatus, permitting it to be shuttled back to the ER.
nuclear localization sequence [or nuclear localization signal; or NLS]
ubiquitin [do not accept ubiquinone]
KDEL [or lys-asp-glu-leu]
It is frequently used for rapid sizing and analysis of DNA oligomers. For 10 points:
Name this separatory method in which a fluid is forced over a column at a very high flow rate, allowing small molecules dissolved in the fluid to be separated and analyzed.
This equation can be used to maximize efficiency in chromatography by finding the mobile phase velocity at which variance per unit length is at a minimum. It defines the variance in terms of eddy diffusion, longitudinal diffusion, and mass-transfer kinetics.
In this type of chromatography, the stationary phase is nonpolar, resulting in polar molecules being eluted first from the column
high performance (or pressure) liquid chromatography or HPLC (prompt on liquid chromatography)
van Deemter equation
reverse-phase chromatography
This phenomenon carries sand and sometimes pebbles onto shores. For 10 points each:
Name this rush of water up onto a beach after waves break at the shoreline.
Waves approaching a beach at an angle give rise to angled swash and backwash, resulting in this lateral transport of sand grains.
Longshore drift occurs in and is sometimes named for this near-shore marine zone. It is sometimes identified with the intertidal zone.
swash
longshore drift 
littoral zone 
Examples of this phenomenon include parallelism and convergent evolution. For 10 points:
Name this phenomenon in which two or more organisms share characters without having descended from a common organism.
Organisms that share a homoplastic trait would NOT be expected to form a monophyletic example of these taxonomic groupings, which consist of an organism and all of its direct descendants.
Taxonomic characters are often described as "primitive", meaning that they were present in the ancestral condition, or by this term indicating that they resulted from more recent modifications.
homoplasy
clade 
derived 
This theorem states that the integral over a closed contour of the velocity field is constant with respect to time. For 10 points each:
Identify this theorem of fluid mechanics.
One condition necessary for Kelvin's circulation theorem to hold is that the flow must lack this property, the fluid resistance to motion. Lacking this property corresponds to having infinite Reynolds number.
Another necessary condition for the circulation theorem is that the density of the flow must be a function of this quantity only. In polytropic fluids, this quantity is given by density raised to some power.
Kelvin's circulation theorem [prompt on "Kelvin's theorem"]
viscosity [accept "the flow must be inviscid"]
pressure
The fundamental equations of this formalism are combined with Maxwell's equations to form a closed set. For 10 points each:
Identify this formalism which treats the motion of a plasma as analogous to the motion of an adiabatic, conducting, electrically neutral fluid.
One of the MHD equations is this type of equation for density, which gives the density time derivative as equal to minus the divergence of the quantity density times velocity field.
Strictly speaking, the MHD formalism is only valid for collisional plasmas, which are those where this quantity, the average distance traveled by a particle between collisions, is much smaller than the typical variation scale.
magnetohydrodynamics 
continuity equations 
mean free path
Rhodopsin was the first member of this class of proteins to be crystallized, and all of them contain seven membrane-spanning domains. For 10 points:
Name this extremely diverse family of transmembrane receptors that initiate signaling pathways within a cell in response to ligands binding on the cell surface.
The extracellular domain of G-protein coupled receptors contains a disulfide bridge between two residues of this amino acid, which, along with histidine, coordinates the zinc atoms in zinc finger proteins.
A 32-base pair deletion in this G-protein receptor mildly affects T-cell function but provides a strong protective effect against smallpox and HIV.
G protein coupled receptors or GPCRs (accept G-protein receptors, G-protein linked receptors, or serpentine receptors; prompt on seven-transmembrane domain receptors, heptahelical receptors, or 7TM receptors; do NOT accept G proteins)
cysteine or cys or c
CCR5 or C-C chemokine receptor type 5
A fluid is defined as a substance that moves when subjected to this. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity symbolized tau, whose various components make up the off-diagonal elements of the mechanical stress tensor.
In a 2D system, for any points under stress, two planes passing through that point can be found such that the shear stress is zero. These planes correspond to the maximum and minimum normal stresses, which are given this name.
For a 2D system, the principal stresses can be found at the x-intercepts of this eponymous graphical construct, which shows how the stresses change as a function of the angle.
shear stress
principal stresses
Mohr's circle 
Stephen Jay Gould attacked this scientist for allowing his biases to skew his results in The Mismeasure of Man. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th century American anatomist, whose measurements of skull sizes led him to put forth a racial hierarchy in which Caucasians had the biggest brains, while Africans had the smallest.
The idea that different races were created separately, polygenesis, was debunked by this author, who provided evidence for a single human ancestor in The Descent of Man.
In a notorious example of scientific racism, this African pygmy was brought to America by Samuel Verner and put on display in the monkey house of the Bronx zoo.
Samuel Morton
Charles Darwin
Ota Benga 
Name these things you might do to test an unknown compound if you were an organic chemist, for 10 points each:
If you add Tollen's reagent to your compound and observe the formation of a black precipitate or a silver mirror, your compound is likely one of these.
If you feel unsure that your compound is really an aldehyde, you might test it by adding this reagent, which consists of chromic acid in aqueous sulfuric acid. Primary and seondary alcohols, as well as aldehydes, produce a green color in this test.
Sodium iodide, which you might use with acetone to determine whether your compound is a halide, is also useful as this kind of reagent which forms so many hydrogen bonds that it disrupts the structure of water. Sodium hydroxide and guanidium chloride are examples of this sort of agent that are used in DNA purification.
aldehydes 
Jones's reagent
chaotropic reagents [accept word forms]
For 10 points each, answer the following on measurements of galaxy rotation curves.
This astronomer provided some of the first evidence for dark matter with her studies of galaxy rotation curves in collaboration with Kent Ford.
Rubin and Ford's first galaxy rotation curves came from this nearest spiral galaxy, part of the Local Group along with the Milky Way.
The rotation of the Andromeda Galaxy was first detected by this man in 1914. He was also the first to detect redshifts of galaxies.
Ven Rubin
Andromeda Galaxy[or M31; or Messier 31]
Vesto Slipher 
A typical way of constructing one of these devices is by placing end-mirrors on the ends of a waveguide. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of device employed in power amplification in lasers in which standing electromagnetic waves can be built up.
This quantity gives the ratio, multiplied by the fundamental cavity frequency, of the stored power divided by the power loss, per cycle. It measures the sharpness of cavity response to external excitation.
This term describes the lowest-structure beam emitted by a cavity. This kind of beam not the most efficient, but is limited only by diffraction, and its intensity distribution in either spatial dimension is described by a normal distribution.
cavity resonator [accept either answer]
Q-factor [accept quality]
Gaussian beam
Name some things about the chemistry of transition metals, for 10 points each.
Transition metals form ions in which one or more of these orbitals are unfilled. These orbitals can be shaped like four perpendicular lobes or like two lobes aligned along the z-axis with the final lobe forming a torus around them.  
] Complexes between transition metals and carbonyls are particularly stable because carbonyls can accept metal electrons into vacant d or pi orbitals in this effect. It increases the bond order of the metal-carbon bond.
One type of molecule that exhibits pi back-bonding is Zeise's salt, which, like this chlorinated chemotherapeutic compound, exhibits square planar geometry.
d orbitals 
pi back-bonding [or pi backdonation]
cisplatin
Nocturnality, which arose in mammals as they diverged from reptilian ancestors, is an example of this type of change. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of change that can trigger evolutionary radiations by allowing organisms to colonize new niches
The concept of key evolutionary innovations was pioneered by Karel Liam, who also studied these evolutionarily ancient fish. These sarcopterygids were thought to be extinct until one was discovered by a South African fisherman in 1938.
The relative smallness of this character in birds is thought to be a key adaptation that enables flight by reducing the basal metabolic rate. Its unpredictable variance among eukaryotes is called the C-value enigma, and it is commonly measured by flow cytometry of propidium-iodide-stained cells.
key adaptation [or key innovation]
coelocanths
genome size [accept equivalents that convey the sense of "the amount of DNA in an organism's genome"]
This phenomenon was first postulated by Hungarian scientist Ferenc Nopcsa [Fer-ench Nop-cha] to explain diminutive fossils discovered in Transylvania. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon where animals evolve smaller size because of limited resources in a small environment.
Island dwarfism may have led to the evolution of this small hominid, nicknamed the "hobbit". They were less than four feet tall and lived on the namesake Indonesian island until 13,000 years ago.
The opposite of island dwarfism is island gigantism, where animals grow to enormous size in the absence of predators or competitors. Island gigantism has led to these giant cricket-like insects found in New Zealand.
island dwarfism or insular dwarfism [prompt on phyletic dwarfism]
Flores man [accept: Homo floresiensis]
wetas 
The damage caused by this type of trauma is due to hypoxia, buildup of metabolic waste, and scarcity of metabolic substrates. For 10 points:
Name this type of trauma in which blood supply is insufficient to meet a tissue's needs. Necrosis caused by this type of injury is called infarction.
In patients suffering from ischemia, this interval measured on an EKG trace is often abnormally long. It represents the electrical polarization and depolarization of the right and left ventricles.
Administration of this neurotransmitter results in abnormal lengthening of the QT interval in patients suffering from Long QT syndrome. Produced by the chromaffin cells of adrenal glands, it stimulates the fight-or-flight response of the sympathetic nervous system.
ischemia 
QT interval
epinephrine or adrenaline
One example of this type of process forms a crucial step in the Linde liquefaction cycle. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of adiabatic process, exemplified by the throttling process, in which the sum of the internal energy and the product of pressure and volume remains unchanged.
The classical example of an isenthalpic process is gas throttled by a porous plug and then cooling, named after its two 19th century discoverers.
Cooling in the Joule-Thomson process occurs only when, for a given pressure, the temperature of the gas lies below this curve, which is defined by the derivative of temperature with respect to pressure at constant enthalpy.
isenthalpic [or constant enthalpy] process
Joule-Thomson or Joule-Kelvin process
inversion curve or temperature
The first of these theorems states that for a finite group whose order contains a factor of some prime p raised to the power n, that group contains subgroups of orders of all powers of p up to n. For 10 points each:
Identify this set of three theorems about finite groups, the third of which provides a way of counting p-subgroups of a group.
The second Sylow theorem states that any two p-subgroups of a finite group G have this relation, which is equivalent to the existence of an inner automorphism of G that takes one of the subgroups to the other.
The Sylow theorems can be used to show that the alternating group on this many letters is the smallest simple group not of prime order. Polynomials of this degree or higher do not have a general expression for their roots in radicals, according to a theorem by Abel.
Sylow theorem
conjugate 
5
The namesake slope of this reaction is the overpotential divided by the natural log of the current density divided by the exchange current density. For 10 points:
Name this equation which is only applicable at high overpotentials where the relationship between overpotential and charge density is nonlinear.
The Tafel equation is a specific case of the Butler-Volmer equation, which is an exponential form of this other equation which can be used to determine the redox potential of a half cell in an electrochemical cell.
The Nernst equation can be considered a more simplified form of the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation, which describes ion flux resulting from the movement of multiple ions across this structure. Similarly, the Mullins-Noda equation describes ion flux across a specific type of this structure.
Tafel equation
Nernst equation
cell membrane [accept equivalents like plasma membrane, membrane of a neuron, etc.; prompt on cell or neuron or other specific cell types]
Answer the following about the metallurgy of steel, for 10 points each:
With 4.3% carbon, molten steel solidifies into a mixture of austenite, ledeburite, and cementite. Such a phase change, which occurs for the composition with the lowest melting point and produces multiple solid phases, is known by this term.
At 0.18% carbon and 2718Â°F, steel undergoes this type of transition where a mixture of one solid phase and the liquid phase changes to a different solid phase. In the case of steel, delta-iron and the liquid alloy change to austenite.
This extremely hard and brittle form of steel is not shown on the equilibrium phase diagram, as it is formed by rapid quenching of the steel so that the iron and carbon atoms do not have time to diffuse into an equilibrium phase.
eutectic reaction or point or transition
peritectic reaction or point or transition
martensite
Within segments, this axis is defined by segment polarity genes like Engrailed and Wingless. For 10 points each:
Name this axis, which is established early in Drosophila embryogenesis by gradients of genes like Bicoid and Nanos.
These paired mesodermic structures form along the anterior-posterior axis during development. They form vertebrae, dermis, and skeletal muscle.
These genes specify which somite becomes which structure. They are expressed along the anterior-posterior axis and are the master regulators of body segment definition. Mutation of these genes, which include the Drosophila gene Antennapedia, result in misplaced body structures, such as feet growing where antennae should be.
anterior-posterior axis [accept anteroposterior axis, cephalocaudal axis, rostrocaudal axis, or craniocaudal axis]
somites [accept primitive segments from elderly players]
Hox genes [accept homeobox or homeodomain]
t-BOC and FMOC are often used to fill this function. For 10 points each:
Name this type of chemical moiety, which shields a reactive group from side reactions.
t-BOC is often used as a protecting group in reactions where these molecules are a reactant. They can be synthesized in a method named for Strecker.
When synthesizing amino acids, one can use these reagents, which are added as a temporary substituent to direct the diastereoselectivity of subsequent reactions but which are removed before the final product. The Evans group used oxazolidinone derivatives for this function in the aldol reaction.
protecting groups [or protective groups]
amino acids
chiral auxiliaries (prompt on incomplete answer, do not prompt on chiral catalyst)
Answer some questions about the so-far unsuccessful attempts to formulate a quantum theory of gravity, for 10 points each.
A major problem in writing down a covariant quantum field theory of gravity is that it ends up having this property, in which ultraviolet divergences end up being non-removable from the theory.
This approach to quantizing gravity, pioneered by physicists like Lee Smolin and Abhay Ashtekar, reformulates the Newtonian background as a "spin network," and quantizes the gravitational field in terms of its namesake closed "force lines."
The namesake loops of LQG are quantised at this length scale, given by the square root of the quantity h-bar times the universal Gravitational constant divided by the cube of the speed of light. It's named after the same scientist whose namesake distribution solves the problem of blackbody radiation.
nonrenormalizable [accept obvious equivalents like "it can't be renormalized"]
loop quantum gravity [or LQG; or quantum geometry; or quantum spin dynamics]
Planck length
Answer some questions about computer graphics, for 10 points each.
This type of graphics is usually contrasted with raster graphics, or bitmaps. Since they use geometrical primitives, they can be scaled without a loss of clarity.
Usually too computationally intensive to be done in real time, this rendering technique in computer graphics follows lines from a camera through each pixel in an image plane.
One of these curves used in computer graphics, CAD, and computer animation can be specified by an order, a set of control points, and a knot vector. Like other types of B-splines they are generalizations of Bezier curves
vector graphics 
ray tracing 
NURBS [or Non-uniform rational B-spline or Non-uniform rational basis spline]
 An intensely painful disease affecting this structure is known as "tic douloureux." For 10 points each:
Name this nerve, whose branchial motor component innervates the temporalis, masseter, medial, and lateral pterygoids, otherwise known as the muscles of mastication. 
The motor nucleus and chief sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve are located in this part of the brain. Its pneumotaxic and apneuristic areas help regulate respiration, and it is connected to the cerebellum by the middle cerebellar peduncles.
The pons is immediately superior to this component of the brainstem. It controls autonomic functions like heart and respiratory rate as well as reflexes like swallowing, vomiting, and sneezing.
trigeminal nerve or C5 or CN5 or fifth nerve
pons 
medulla oblangata 
Consider a chemical reaction with a pair of rapidly interconverting intermediates at equal energy levels, each going irreversibly into a different product. For 10 points each:
This doubly-eponymous principle states that the product ratio equals the Boltzmann factor associated with the difference in free energy between the two transition states.
The Curtin-Hammett principle can be used to explain the enantioselective nature of this hydrogenation reaction of ketones and imines, which uses a chiral ruthenium catalyst.
The same principle is used in the enantioselective synthesis of griseofulvin, a tubulin-binding drug used to treat this skin infection, also known as dermatophytosis.
Curtin-Hammett principle 
Noyori asymmetric hydrogenation reaction
ringworm
The equation that follows from this theorem states the change in momentum over time plus the Poisson bracket of momentum and the Hamiltonian is zero. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem, which states a phase-space distribution function is constant over any trajectory.
Related to but not following from Liouville's theorem is this common assumption of statistical mechanics, that particles will have the same behavior averaged over space as they will over time, that is, all accessible microstates of a system are equiprobable.
The pointwise ergodic theorem, which mathematically shows the average of an integrable function over time to be equal almost everywhere to the average over a measure space, was first proven by this man. This man also proved that for any spherically symmetric solution to the Einstein field equations, spacetime is static and flat.
Liouville's theorem
ergodic hypothesis 
George Birkhoff 
A corollary of Kasha's rule dictates that the numeric efficiency of this process is independent of the spectrum of the exciting radiation. It results from singlet-to-singlet decays and therefore has a shorter lifetime than a related process. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which some materials, after having electrons promoted by absorbed light, re-emit light of a slightly different wavelength.
Specifically, the Kasha-Vavilov rule states that this quantity is independent of the frequency of the exciting light. This quantity is defined as the number photons emitted divided by the number absorbed.
This is the name for the change in wavelength between the absorbed and emitted photons in florescence. It occurs because of non-radiative decay mechanisms, which cause the decay to be different from the promotion is general.
florescence 
quantum yield [or quantum efficiency; prompt on yield; do not accept or prompt on "efficiency"]
Stokes shift
These substances can be formed by the oxidation of alkenes with osmium tetroxide. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds which contain two hydroxyl functional groups.
Used in a critical step in the synthesis of the cancer drugs irinotecan and topotecan, this dihydroxylation reaction modifies the osmium tetroxide with diastereomeric ligands to produce an enantiopure diol. It built on the earlier racemic Upjohn method.
This vicinal diol gives its name to a reaction that couples carbonyl compounds using a ketyl radical mechanism usually initiated by reaction with magnesium. It may be prepared through that reaction itself via the homocoupling of acetone.
diols [or glycols]
Sharpless asymmetric dihydroxylation or Sharpless AD
pinacol [or 2,3-dimethyl-2,3-butanediol; or tetramethylethylene glycol]
Over 90% of its industrial use is for the generation of adipic acid and caprolactam for nylon manufacture. For 10 points each:
Name this cyclic alkane with formula C6H12.
The preferred conformation of cyclohexane is this one that has its hydrogens staggered. At room temperature, this conformation rapidly interconverts its equatorial and axial substituent atoms in a ring flip.
The chair conformation extends to this simplest diamondoid molecule with formula C10H16.
cyclohexane 
chair conformation
adamantane 
A bubble at the edge of this region was recently deduced by Bill Webber using data from Voyager I. For 10 points each:
Name this region of space dominated by the Sun. Most particles encountered in this region originate from the Sun.
On March 20, Voyager I crossed this boundary, the edge of the heliosphere bubble, where interstellar medium radiation abruptly becomes dominant.
The heliosphere was expected to exhibit one of these sharp standing waves at the inboard side of the heliosphere, but one was not found because the Sun's velocity with respect to the interstellar medium is too low. Planets with strong magnetic fields create these on the side facing the solar wind as the solar wind abruptly slows.
heliosphere 
heliocliff
bow shock [prompt on shock; do not accept "termination shock"]
This type of map is both one-to-one and onto, or in other words, this is a bijective homomorphism. For 10 points each:
Name this relationship between two mathematical objects that thus have the same structure.
The first isomorphism theorem states that the image of a homomorphism is isomorphic to the quotient group of the codomain modulo this subgroup of the codomain. For any map, this is the set of elements mapped to zero; for example, for a matrix A, it's all vectors such that Ax = 0.
The kernel of a homomorphism is specifically this type of subgroup of the codomain according to the first isomorphism theorem. The third group isomorphism theorem applies to subgroups with this property. Subgroups with this property are invariant under conjugation with respect to the corresponding supergroup.
isomorphism
kernel
normal subgroups 
It is synthesized endogenously from arginine and oxygen via its namesake synthase. For 10 points each:
Name this small molecule, a vasodilator that interacts with guanylate cyclase to trigger the release of a cyclic GMP cascade.
Nitric oxide signaling is strengthened by the phosphodiesterase inhibitor sildenafil citrate, a drug sold for pulmonary hypertension under the name Revatio and for erectile dysfunction under this more famous trade name.
Nitric oxide can activate this DNA transcription-regulating complex whose family members are homologous to rel. It activates in response to inflammation by mobilizing cytokines, chemokines, pro-survival factors, and more.
nitric oxide [or NO; or nitrogen oxide; or nitrogen monoxide]
Viagra
NF-kB [or NF-ÃªB; or nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells]
The bizarrely Platonic metaphor of a chain gang in which prisoners can move freely if they are close, but cannot escape, is often used to describe this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, the explanation of which won the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics. In it, the strong force decreases with distance between quarks.
Asymptotic freedom arises naturally when one notes that this value, denoted g, decreases logarithmically with wave number in QCD. In general, these are dimensionless numbers that indicate the strength of an interaction in a quantum field theory, such as the fine structure constant for electrodynamics.
Asymptotic freedom is a feature of QCD and other quantum gauge theories with this gauge group. It is the group of all 2-by-2 complex matrices with determinant 1.
asymptotic freedom
coupling constant
SU(2) [or special unitary group of degree 2]
This phenomenon was discovered by Nansen on the Fram expedition. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which the Coriolis force causes net transport via ocean currents perpendicular to wind direction.
Also caused by the Coriolis force is this effect, in which boundary currents on one side of ocean gyres are faster, narrower, and deeper.
Thermohaline circulation is driven not by wind or the Coriolis force, but instead by gradients in temperature and this other variable.
Ekman transport [or Ekman spiral]
western intensification
salinity [or salt concentration; or solute density; or molarity of salt; or salt density]
In January 2013, researchers from the University of Delaware described new tin-containing versions of this type of compound. For 10 points each,
Name this type of compound that "traps" other molecules within its structure. Methane is notably trapped within hydrogen bonds of water ice, forming the methane type of this type of compound.
Clathrates are prominent in this field of chemistry, which deals with complexes of molecules that do not covalently bind to each other, but remain "stuck" to each other through non-covalent bonds. Crown ethers are another type of compound used frequently in this field.
These compounds are crown ether derivatives with a bridging system across the ring that creates a cavity. The most important of these has the nomenclature 2.2.2; it is used in the stationary phase of some ion chromatography columns.
clathrates 
host-guest chemistry
cryptand 
The Riesz representation theorem explains the use of this notation. For 10 points each:
Name this notation developed by Dirac for quantum mechanics. Its namesake elements represent quantum states in a Hilbert space and their duals.
The time evolution operator of a quantum system must have the unitary property, which means that the operator's adjoint is this for the operator. Applying this to its corresponding operator gives the identity operator.
The unitarity of evolution operators is the key to proving this theorem. It states that there is no way to copy an arbitrary quantum state.
bra-ket notation
inverse operator
no-cloning theorem
This protein was named for its weight in kildodaltons, though the figure given by SDS-PAGE overstated the true weight by some 10 kD due to effects from its many proline residues. For 10 points each,
Identify this protein and transcription factor which halts the cell cycle if it detects DNA damage. HPV E6 induces the degradation of this molecule, lowering the expression of downstream genes that help supress cell growth and division.
p53 binds to p21, which controls the regulation of this class of molecules responsible for driving the cell cycle forward. If p53 is damaged, p21 never binds to these molecules, thus allowing the cell cycle to continue without DNA repair enzymes kicking in.
This autosomal dominant condition is associated with congenital mutations in the p53 gene, and causes a predisposition to soft tissue cancers for afflicted individuals.
tp53 [or tumor protein 53]
CDKs [or cyclin-dependent kinases]
Li-Fraumeni syndrome [or Li-Fraumeni-like syndrome; LFS; or LFL syndrome]
A pre-amplifier may increase the signal-to-noise ratio of this component, which has a "time-stretch" variant in optical systems. For 10 points each:
Name this electronic component that samples a signal in order to discretize it.
Amplification named for this Indian Nobel laureate may be used to overcome large losses in all-optical ADC. Such a process is analogous to this scientist's namesake inelastic scattering of photons.
Time-stretch optical ADC is usually done on this type of waveform. One of these will result from a free-running laser with a pulsed output beam, as opposed to a q-switched device
analog-to-digital converter
Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman
continuous wave
This process has been correlated with success as an invasive species and biflagellate sperm in the genus it most famously occurs in, Corbicula clams. For 10 points each:
Name this process that discards the egg during syngamy, passing on only clonal sperm and allowing unisexual males to act as genomic parasites of related species. It can be induced in vitro in the pollen of moonflowers.
Androgenesis is an example of this type of reproduction practiced by bdelloid rotifers and parthenogenetic skinks. Populations that undergo this form of reproduction accumulate harmful mutations according to Muller's ratchet.
In contrast to hemiclonal and automictic variants, this form of asexual reproduction  involves the suppression of meiosis so offspring are maternal clones. It is contrasted with vegetative reproduction in angiosperms.
androgenesis [DON'T READ THESE PROMPTABLE ANSWERS OUT LOUD but prompt on asexual reproduction or paternal apomixis or uniparental reproduction or parthenogenetic reproduction or word forms]
asexual reproduction [accept word forms; accept uniparental reproduction; antiprompt on specific types]
apomixis [accept word forms]
In this technique, a droplet undergoes Coulomb fission once it reaches its Rayleigh limit, for 10 points each:
Name this technique used in mass spectroscopy in which an applied potential causes the formation of a fine aerosol containing the sample.
ESI and MALDI are considered this sort of ionization technique which produces relatively few fragment ions, making these methods more suitable for the analysis of large biomolecules.
This method of ionization involves mixing the analyte into a liquid matrix material, then hitting it with a high-energy beam of neutral atoms such as xenon to generate molecular ions.
Electrospray ionization
soft ionization techniques
fast atom bombardment [or FAB]
In bulk semiconductors, an applied electric field causes a change in the valence band maximum, resulting in a change in absorption as the wavelength of the fundamental absorption edge shifts. For 10 points each:
Name the effect thus caused by the leakage of wavefunctions out of the valence band. It does not require a quantum well, but only a bulk semiconductor.
The wavefunctions of the electrons and holes in the Franz-Keldysh effect take on this form, solutions to the differential equation y-double-prime minus x-y equals zero.
The Franz-Keldysh effect occurs in uniform media, unlike the quantum-confined form of this other effect. This is the splitting of spectral lines in an electric field. It has an AC version named for Autler and Townes.
the Franz-Keldysh effect
Airy functions [prompt on A or B]
the Stark effect
his class of flagellate protists are almost completely homologous to collar cells in Poriferans, and bear significant structural similarities to flame cells in rotifers. For 10 points each:
Name this paraphyletic class which diverged from the opisthokont MRCA more recently than fungi, making them the closest extant relatives of Animalia.
Strong evidence for the relatedness of Animalia and Choanoflagellata is the presence of genes coding for phosphatases that dephosphorylate this amino acid. In photosystem II, it is the final electron donor to P680 in the oxygen-evolving complex, while in humans, it is stored in follicular cells.
Phosphatases are antagonists of these proteins, whose function is to phosphorylate other proteins. A protein of this type which acts on tyrosine names a transmembrane receptor which transduces signals via intermediary proteins that possess SH2 domains.
choanoflagellates [or Choanoflagellata]
tyrosine
protein kinases
In this theory, a total of 15 molecular orbitals are available to an octahedral transition metal complex, of which nine originate from the valence orbitals of the metal. For 10 points each:
Name this extension of molecular orbital theory which explains orbital splitting in terms of  interactions between metal d orbitals and orbitals of compounds that interact with the metal.
This bidentate anionic ligand is often used to generate octahedral transition metal complexes. It is generated from 2,4-pentanedione.
This effect describes the distortion of octahedral transition metal complexes. It tends to induce tetragonal distortions in copper(II) complexes.
ligand field theory [or LFT]
acetylacetonate
Jahn-Teller effect
These equations relate the product of density and the convective derivative of velocity to the divergence of the stress tensor plus body forces per unit volume minus the pressure gradient. For 10 points each:
Name these equations that describe momentum conservation, which are only exactly soluble in special cases such as Couette flow.
The convective derivative incorporates an operator for this process, denoted by a velocity vector dotted with the covariant derivative. This process consists of transport of a substance due to bulk motion of a carrier fluid.
Numerical solutions to the Navier-Stokes equations typically employ this type of method, which entails the conversion of PDEs to numerically-stable approximate ODEs which are then numerically integrated over discretized space.
Navier-Stokes equation
advection
finite element method [or finite element analysis] 
All of these galaxies are believed to contain active galactic nuclei. For 10 points each:
Name these galaxies that are located at the Y-junction of a certain tuning fork. They have flat disks, but also contain very little dust and gas.
This man gives his name to the tuning fork that plots different types of galaxies by their characteristics. This man also used Cepheid variables to show that Andromeda was another galaxy.
Seyfret galaxies are believed to be formed when a spiral galaxy experiences this type of pressure. It is equal to a body's velocity squared times a fluid's density.
Seyfert galaxy [or S0]
Edwin Hubble
ram pressure 
Its product dimerizes with c-Jun to form the AP-1 transcription factor. For 10 points each:
Name this CREB-responsive immediate early gene, which was first discovered as a retroviral oncogene in mice.
Fos and Jun dimerize by forming one of these super-secondary structures consisting of parallel alpha helices that interact along a hydrophobic interface. 
A homologue of Fos in these organisms was originally named kayak. This popular model organism, a fruit fly, was studied by Thomas Hunt Morgan.
c-Fos 
leucine zipper or leucine scissors
Drosophilia melangogaster
This effect's factor is equal to the log of e raised to the negative optical depth. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which light from distant stars is absorbed by the interstellar medium. Its factor A for the v band is equal to around 3 times the excess of B-V. A bump around 2200 Angstrom in this effect's curve suggests that the interstellar medium contains graphite.
Extinction leads to an effect, whereby more light from higher wavelengths is allowed to reach the observer, which is named for this color. Another effect named for this color occurs to the wavelength of light or sound when it is moving away from an observer.
Extinction leads to this area in the night sky that is caused by the Milky Way's galactic plane. Galaxies discovered in this area by their HI emissions are Dwingeloo 1 and 2.
extinction
red [or reddening; or redshift]
zone of avoidance 
In circular dichroism spectroscopy, proteins with this structure have a negative band at 218 nm and a positive band at 196 nm. For 10 points each:
Name this common secondary protein structure, which consists of namesake parallel or antiparallel "strands" connected by hydrogen bonds. It is often contrasted with the alpha helix.
This structural motif connects beta strands together at their ends. It usually contains two to seven residues, one of which is typically glycine.
This toroidally-arranged beta motif is responsible for the sialytic activity of neuraminidase. The WD40 repeats found in the beta subunit of G proteins form this structural motif.
beta(-pleated) sheet
beta hairpin turn
beta-propellers
These codes are a subset of BCH codes and are based on Galois fields. For 10 points each:
Identify this systematic linear block code that takes k data symbols of s bits each and adds parity symbols to make an n symbol code word. Thus, it can correct up to t symbols that contain errors, where 2t equals n minus k.
This family of linear error correcting codes allows for the correction of single-bit errors. They are based on a code that encoded four bits to seven bits by adding three parity bits.
The error-correcting code form of this memory usually uses a Hamming code for error correction. This is a computer's main memory and is volatile.
Reed-Solomon forward error correcting codes
Hamming codes
RAM [or Random-access memory]
This reaction mechanism can result in inversion of stereochemistry at the reaction center. For 10 points each:
Identify this reaction in which formation of a carbon-nucleophile bond and expulsion of the leaving group bond occur simultaneously.
Along with halides, these ions are good leaving groups for SN2 reactions. Examples include mesylate and tosylate ions
The SN2 reaction will not occur with a tertiary alkene because of this effect. Angle compression results when increasing this effect at one site on a molecule enhances reactivity at another site.
SN2 reaction [or SN2 mechanism; or bimolecular nucleophilic substitution]
: sulfonate ions
steric hindrance [or steric effect, prompt on partial answer]
This metric describes the gravitational field outside of spherical uncharged masses and is usually applied to black holes of the same name. For 10 points each:
Name this metric, which gives the spherical solution to Einstein's field equations.
This hyperbolic coordinate system can be used to describe the Schwarzschild geometry of a black hole. The most important feature of this coordinate system is that it is well-behaved across event horizons.
The Schwarzschild solution contains two of these points, values where the metric becomes infinite. If the cosmic censorship hypothesis holds, these points must always be surrounded by an event horizon.
Schwarzschild metric [or Schwarzschild solution]
Kruskal-Szekeres coordinates
singularity 
This layer is only present during the day as the number of collisions among ions is enough to allow them to recombine.  For 10 points each:
Name the lowest layer of the ionosphere, which can only reflect radio waves if a solar flare occurs.  Otherwise, they are absorbed by this layer.
The ionosphere was first discovered by this scientist, who used the Bournemouth transmitter to find that the transmitted waves were reflected.  He also lends his name to the F layer.
These ionospheric waves are manifested as peaks in the noise power spectrum of low-frequency ionospheric propagations. They are essentially resonant features of the Earth-ionosphere cavity.
D layer 
Edward Appleton
Schumann resonance 
Above the Neel point, materials with this property become paramagnetic.  For 10 points each:
Name this type of magnetism in which the magnetic moments are aligned in opposite directions and cancel.
Like ferromagnetism, antiferromagnetism is generally modeled using this eponymous exchange Hamiltonian. Unlike the Ising model, this model allows spins to point in any direction and is not restricted to nearest neighbors.
This property of a crystalline magnetic system results from the strain-dependence of the stress anisotropy constants. It results when a demagnetized object that has experienced strain is re-magnetized, causing it to change shape.
antiferromagnetism [accept word forms]
Heisenberg model or Hamiltonian
magnetostriction [accept word forms]
It modifies the ideal gas law by accounting for particle interactions using a and b coefficients, which measure the attraction between particles and the volume of the particles, respectively. For 10 points each:
Name this equation of state.
This equation improves upon the van der Waals equation by multiplying the a coefficient by the alpha parameter, which is dependent upon temperature and the acentric factor. It can calculate the fugacity coefficient as well as the compressibility factor.
Another modification of the van der Waals equation is this equation, which also uses coefficients labeled a and b, but stand for different constants. Like the Peng-Robinson equation, it can be used to calculate the compressibility factor.
van der Waals equation
Peng-Robinson equation of state
Soave-Redlich-Kwong equation of state
Rebecca Cann, Mark Stoneking, and Allan Wilson dated this hominid's life to approximately two hundred thousand years ago, dealing a blow to the multiregional origin hypothesis. For 10 points each:
Name this hominid, who is hypothesized to be the most common recent matrilineal ancestor of modern humans. Her male counterpart is Y-chromosomal Adam.
The discovery of Mitochondrial Eve supported the theory that this hominid migrated out of Africa. Its fossils include Java Man and Turkana Boy, and some anthropologists consider it to be the same species as Homo ergaster
This alternate hypothesis to the Out of Africa theory argues that Homo sapiens left Africa by traveling across the coasts of Asia to Australia.
Mitochondrial Eve [prompt on Eve]
Homo erectus
Southern dispersal route 
Answer the following about apoptosis, for 10 points each:
These proteins facilitate apoptosis by cleaving other proteins through the breaking of disulfide bridges, the activity of which gives them their name.  
Along with FasL, this protein, once activated, will activate caspases 8 and 10, leading to FADD and TRADD being produced in a signaling pathway that activates NF-kappaB.  The 3A protein of poliovirus inhibits the actions of this protein.
This molecule, a mobile part of the electron transport chain in the mitochondria, is also involved in apoptosis.  It forms a complex with Apaf-1 that activates caspase 9.
caspases
Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor [or TNFR]
cytochrome c 
Polymer analysis techniques have gotten short shrift, until now. For 10 points each:
This technique involves a very accurate balance with a small amount of sample in a crucible being heated at a constant rate in a furnace to determine degradation characteristics.
The differential scanning type of this sort of analysis is often used to confirm melting temperatures and glass transition temperatures of polymers. The "bomb" variety of this method for measuring heat capacity is conducted at constant volume.c
This type of chromatography uses a column packed with beads that have pores of varying sizes.  The larger polymer chains come out first and the smaller ones take longer since they are able to get trapped in the smaller pores
thermogravimetric analysis [or TGA]
calorimetry
gel permeation chromatography [or size exclusion chromatography; or gel filtration chromatography; or molecular sieve chromatography; or GPC; or SEC; or GFC; or MSC]
Parseval's theorem shows partial sums of this series provide the best trigonometric polynomial approximation of a function at a given degree using the L-2 norm. For 10 points each:
Name this infinite series of complex exponential or trigonometric functions, used by its namesake creator for providing a general solution to the heat equation.
Partial sums of Fourier series can be written as convolutions of the function in question and this sum of complex exponential terms. This sum is not always non-negative, which makes convergence of Fourier series a precarious matter.
This theorem proves that the convolution of the function and its namesake kernel, which unlike the Dirichlet is always non-negative, will uniformly converge to the function.
Fourier series
Dirichlet kernel
FejÃ©r's theorem
Answer some questions about computational chemistry for 10 points each.
Popular examples of these constructs used in molecular mechanics include MM2, which is used for hydrocarbons, and ECEPP, which is used for proteins.
This potential is commonly used in molecular mechanics to model London dispersion forces between non-polar molecules. It is sometimes named after the two exponents, 6 and 12, that represent the attractive and repulsive forces.
These models come in simple two or three site varieties, but may make use of as many as five sites to model lone pair activity. Typically, modelling proteins requires these models to avoid anomalous Coloumb interactions, but when computation time is at a premium a so called continuum model for implicit solvation can be used instead.
force fields
Lennard Jones potential
water model
Answer some questions about a quantum mechanical effect, for 10 points each.
This phenomena is the process by which an applied external magnetic field splits the energy levels of atomic spectra. It's less important electrical equivalent is named for Johannes Stark.
This coefficient important in lifting the degeneracy of energy levels with equal angular momentum represents the total contribution to the magnetic moment from spin and orbital magnetic moment. It is calculated from the quantum numbers l, j and s.
One difficulty with calculating the Lande g-factor is the anomolous gyromagnetic ratio of the electron. The electron's g-factor differs from this value predicted by the Dirac equation by approximately two tenths of a percent due to QED effects.
Zeeman Effect
Lande g-factor
two
One proposed device using this material is a nano-ribbon field effect transistor. For 10 points each:
Identify this 2-dimensional form of carbon which was extracted by Geim and Novoselov by peeling apart a similar material with scotch tape.
Graphene is a prime candidate for next-generation electronics because its charge carriers have this property at room temperature. Though not superconductivity, this process implies almost negligible resistance and is a key feature of 2D electron gases in semiconductor heterostructures.
Graphene's band structure has 6 minima in this region, which is the region of the reciprocal lattice closer to the origin than to any other lattice point. The points in this region of reciprocal space are labeled by indices such as gamma for the origin and M and X for points along the edges.
graphene [do not accept graphite]
ballistic transport
first Brillouin zone
Hantaviruses accomplish this task using cytoplasmic P-bodies, while the canonical pathway observed in orthomyxovirus requires the endonuclease activity of PB1. for 10 points each:
Name this mechanism used by viruses to co-opt the host cell protein translation machinery, which is an alternative to internal ribosome entry sequence usage.
In another example of host cell systems being taken over by pathogens, herpesviruses encode variants of the D type of these cell-cycle regulatory proteins that interact with CDKs.
The inclusion body observed in cells infected with Chlamydia trachomatis is formed by IncA, a bacterial protein that has homology to this class of membrane fusion proteins, whose v- and t- varieties interact to mediate vesicle fusion
cap-snatching [Accept things like "Cutting off the 5' cap" or "stealing the 5' cap"]
cyclins [accept v-cyclins or cyclin D or D-type cyclins; do not accept cyclin-dependent kinases]
SNAREs [accept soluble NSF attachment protein receptors; accept v-SNAREs or t-SNARES]
The CauchyÂ–Riemann equations give one criterion for evaluating whether a function has this property. For 10 points each:
Give this property that a complex function on a domain R posses if it is complex differentiable at every point in R.
This theorem states that if a complex function f of z is continuous in a region R and for every closed rectifiable curve in R, the integral along that curve of f of z equals zero, then f is analytic. It can be thought of as the converse of Cauchy's integral theorem.
This generalization of a Taylor series can be used to create a unique expansion of a holomorphic function within an annulus. They are defined as the sum from n equals negative infinity to infinity of a sub n times z to the n where z is a non zero complex number.
analytic [or holomorphic]
Morera's Theorem
Laurent series
The DNA within these structures exists as maxicircles or concatenated minicircles. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that are the distinguishing characteristics of a class of unicellular organisms. They consist of an enlarged, DNA-packed mitochondrion at the base of the organism's flagellum.
Kinetoplasts are found in this genus of parasitic organisms that can be transmitted by the tsetse fly or the assassin fly. Species within this genus include brucei and cruzi.
Trypanosomes undergo the trans variety of this process of intron removal and exon joining. The trans variety involves the joining of two exons from two different RNA transcripts.
kinetoplasts (accept eukinetoplasts)
Trypanosoma
splicing (accept word forms)
For a randomly distributed variable, this quantity is given by the sum of the probability density times the log of the probability density. For ten points each:
Identify this quantity, which is usually taken to represent the minimum number of bits required to encode information about that variable. It was formulated analogously to a measure of disorder in statistical mechanics.
This theorem establishes limits for data compression, showing that if n random variables are encoded in fewer than n times the entropy of the variables, there is a high risk of information loss. The average length of the best possible compression is the entropy divided by the logarithm of the number of possible symbols.
This method of data compression can usually halve the size of the original file. It encodes by searching for the shortest substring not in its dictionary, and then pulling out the next longest and adding that to the dictionary.
information [or Shannon] entropy
Shannon's source coding theorem or noiseless coding theorem or Shannon's second theorem
Lempel-Ziv-Welch or Lempel-Ziv
The B one of these is typically the only one necessary for considering spin-allowed transitions in metal ions and complexes. For 10 points each:
Name these integrals that describe the energies of electron-electron repulsion.
Racah parameters provide a quantitative rationale for this set of rules governing the ground state of a multi-electron atom. One of these states that the state with maximum multiplicity has the lowest energy.
The Racah parameter B divides term energies and the ligand-field splitting parameter on the y- and x-axes, respectively, of these diagrams that predict the energies of spectral transitions in both high- and low-spin complexes, unlike Orgel diagrams.
Racah parameters
Hund's rules
Tanabe-Sugano diagrams
An alloy of this metal and aluminum is a popular material for metal contacts in integrated circuits. For 10 points each:
Identify this lightweight metal whose alloys are principally used in the aerospace and shipbuilding industries. It burns in nitrogen but is strongly resistant to corrosion.
This is the primary industrial process for refining titanium. Rutile ore is converted to titanium tetrachloride which is then refined by fractional distillation and reacted with magnesium to produce the pure metal.
The Kroll process is a spin-off of this other industrial process which also converts rutile ore to titanium tetrachloride and then titanium, but does so by reacting titanium tetrachloride with sodium at a slightly lower temperature.
titanium
Kroll process
Hunter process
It relates mineral type to crystallization temperature. For 10 points each:
Name this ubiquitous diagram from petrology which has continuous and discontinuous branches.
Located beneath olivine on the continuous branch is this class of minerals consisting of tetrahedral and octahedral silicate chains with mainly magnesium, calcium, and iron cations. Subclasses of this mineral group are plotted on a namesake quadrilateral and include augite, pigeonite, and enstatite.
Most pyroxenes crystallize in either the orthorhombic structure or this one in which two of the unit cell vectors are perpendicular while the third is not, giving the cell the appearance of a rectangular prism sheared along one axis.
Bowen's reaction series
pyroxenes
monoclinic
The "tail" form of this process can be space-optimized to repeat indefinitely without an overflow error. For 10 points each:
Name this process often implemented with stacks, in which a function calls itself.
Haskell Curry discovered this function which takes a function and outputs a recursive version of that function. It can also be used to find a fixed point of the function.
The Y combinator acts in the untyped version of this formal system. Functions in it are reducible to three combinators, S, K, and I, and it was introduced by Alonzo Church.
recursion [accept word forms]
Y combinator [prompt on "fixed-point combinator"]
lambda calculus [accept combinatory logic]
Unlike the classical version, this functional considers all the possible trajectories of a system. For 10 points each:
Name this functional, developed by Richard Feynman, which sums all possible Lagrangians weighted by varying phase based on their probability.
Feynman's formulation assumes that the probability amplitude is proportional to e to the power of this quantity times i over h-bar. This quantity is minimized for the "correct" path of a particle.
Path integrals can also be used in the formulation of these operators, which describe the time-dependent evolution of a particle's wavefunction.
path integral
action
propagators
A burst of these particles preceded the detection of visible light from Supernova 1987A. For 10 points each:
Name these particles that were only observed at one-third of their theoretical rate when their source was the Sun.
Neutrinos were first proposed by Wolfgang Pauli to explain the variable energy deficit in this radioactive decay mode. This decay mode sees a positron or electron emitted.
This man codiscovered the neutrino with Frederick Reines, but died before he could receive the Nobel. His great-grandfather was L. L. Langstroth, the "father of American beekeeping".
neutrinos 
beta decay
Clyde Lorrain Cowan Jr. 
An acronym used to recognize the warning signs of this condition is FAST, which stands for Face, Arms, Speech and Time. For 10 points each:
Name this medical condition in which the blood supply to the brain is interrupted.
Stroke can be caused by this condition in which fatty materials accumulate along the walls of certain blood vessels.
This project was founded in 1948 in order to study the common factors that contribute to cardiovascular diseases such as stroke and heart attack. It is named for a town in Massachusetts and its participants have spanned multiple generations.
stroke [or cerebrovascular accident or CVA]
atherosclerosis
Framingham Heart Study
The Rayleigh-Jeans law for the radiation of this type of object is based on the spectral energy density of radiation. For 10 points each:
Name this type of object that is a perfect absorber and emitter.
The Rayleigh-Jeans law for blackbody radiation led to the ultraviolet catastrophe because it assumed that each radiation mode can have any energy. Planck resolved that with his radiation law which is based on the fact that the possible mode energies have this property.
This law gives the wavelength of the peak of the blackbody radiation distribution. It explains the shift of the peak of the distribution to shorter wavelengths as temperature increases and vice versa.
 blackbody
they are quantized [accept word forms]
Wien's displacement law
Cache coherence is a particular problem in these systems, and the L3 cache is typically shared between the constituents of this type of processor. For 10 points each:
Name this type of processor which contains two or more independent processors on the same die.
Multi-core processors are a type of parallel system, which are an example of this type of system in which multiple processes execute at the same time.
C.A.R. Hoare developed this formal language for describing concurrent systems whose component processes interact with each other by communication. FDR, or Failures/Divergence Refinement, was highly influential in the rise in popularity of this language.
 multi-core processor 
concurrent system
CSP [or Communicating Sequential Processing]
This quantity gave rise to the holographic principle. For 10 points each:
Identify this upper bound on the amount of information inside a spherical region with a given energy.
The Bekenstein bound can be found by dividing two times pi times energy times radius by the reduced Planck's constant times the natural log of two times this quantity, denoted c. It is squared in the mass-energy equivalence.
The speed of light to the three-halves power appears in the denominator of the formula for this quantity, which is the length scale at which quantum gravity becomes important.
Bekenstein bound
speed of light
Planck length
Mixing solutions containing two different salts can result in this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which an insoluble compound settles out of a solution as a solid.
This ionic compound is commonly used as a precipitating agent in tests for halide ions because of the color of the precipitates it produces.
Precipitation is one form of this method, which involves the isolation of an ion through a precipitation reaction, filtering and washing the precipitate, converting the precipitant to a product of a known composition and weighing both the precipitate and product to find the mass difference.
precipitation [do not accept flocculation]
silver nitrate [or AgNO3]
gravimetric analysis
The major cause of this disease before 1986 was Haemophilus influenzae type b. For 10 points each:
Name this inflammation of the thin tissues surrounding the brain and spinal cord whose bacterial form can cause permanent brain damage and death.
This type of toxin consists of lipopolysaccharides on the outer membrane of the cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria like Haemophilus influenzae.
The standard test for detecting bacterial endotoxins is an amoebocyte lysate made from the blood of this family of arthropods.
meningitis 
endotoxins 
Limulus [or horseshoe crabs]
This quantity can be measured using the period-luminosity relationship for Cepheid variables that Henrietta Leavitt discovered in her studies of the Small Magellanic Cloud. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which is also measured using parallax and standard candles.
The Faber Jackson relation is used to measure distance from these bodies, which are on the left of Hubble's tuning fork.
One measure for the brightness of a star is absolute magnitude, which is defined as the apparent magnitude of a star measured from this distance.
 distance from the Earth
elliptical galaxies [prompt on galaxy]
10 parsecs [or 32.6 light-years]
In this technique, pentavalent impurities form n-type semiconductors and trivalent impurities form p-type semiconductors. For 10 points each:
Name this technique which involves inserting a small percentage of foreign atoms in the regular crystal lattice of silicon or germanium to produce extra electrons or holes.
In the band theory of solids, electrons move across the band gap to this band, leaving behind electron holes in the other band.
This quantity, referred to as the electron chemical potential, lies halfway between the conduction and valence bands. It is analogous to the surface of a sea of electron states.
doping 
conduction band 
Fermi level
Answer the following about the work of J. Tuzo Wilson, for 10 points each:
Wilson originated the theory of hotspots by proposing that this island chain's formation was due to hot regions beneath plates.
Wilson proposed this type of fault to help explain continental drift, which would lead to the theory of plate tectonics. This type of fault occurs when two tectonic plates slide past one another.
In 1966, Wilson published his theory that this ocean had closed and re-opened, which would lead to the theory of Wilson cycles. The precursor to this ocean was the Iapetus.
Hawaiian islands [or Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain]
transform fault 
Atlantic Ocean
This word names a theory of transition metals formed by combining crystal field theory with molecular orbital theory. For 10 points each:
Name this term that describes any ion or neutral molecule that bonds to a central metal atom or ion. Coordination complexes are formed from these and a metal cation.
This property of a ligand is the number of carbon atoms from the ligand that are directly bonded to a central metal atom in organometallic compounds. It is denoted by eta.
This is the stability sequence for the magnitude of stability constants of a ligand. The most stable metal divalent ion in this sequence is zinc II.
ligand 
hapticity 
Irving-Williams series
The spontaneous breaking of a continuous symmetry of the Lagrangian generates one type of these subatomic particles, which correspond to a zero frequency excitation at zero momentum. For 10 points each:
Name these subatomic particles which can occupy the same quantum state and which obey Bose-Einstein statistics.
These are the aforementioned bosons generated by spontaneous symmetry breaking. They were discovered by Nambu in BCS theory due to spontaneous breaking of the phase invariance associated with the conservation of the electron number.
This theorem states that a continuous symmetry in two or fewer dimensions cannot have a broken symmetry at finite temperature.
bosons 
Goldstone bosons 
Mermin-Wagner-Hohenberg theorem [or Coleman theorem]
This condition can be effectively treated by a combination of benzoyl peroxide and clindamycin. For 10 points each:
Name this skin condition in which the sebaceous glands produce too much oil causing pores to clog and whiteheads and blackheads form.
5-alpha reductase is the major isotype found in sebaceous-gland rich areas and converts testosterone into this potent androgen.
This first-generation retinoid is used to treat severe acne. It also used to treat harlequin ichthyosis and fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva.
acne 
dihydrotestosterone
Roaccutane [or isotretinoin or Isotrexin or Amnesteem or Clavaris or Clarus or Decutan or Isotane or Izotek or Oratane or ISOTRET]
This number system is the basis for Boolean algebra. For 10 points each:
Name this number system which has two numerals, 0 and 1.
Since it is impossible to represent a decimal whose sole prime factor is not two in binary with a finite number of bits, this error is often introduced when doing calculations with floating point numbers.
This is the most common way to represent negative numbers in binary. It can be computed by inverting each bit and adding one.
binary [or base 2]
round-off error [prompt on resprentation error]
two's complement
[missing]
Name this force that results in the apparent deflection of the path of an object in a rotating system.
This type of gravity wave can be a harbinger of El NiÃ±o and, unlike Rossby waves, is not in balance with the Coriolis force. The coastal type travels equatorward along a western boundary and poleward along an eastern boundary.
The shape of coastal surface Kelvin waves is arbitrary and is conserved as the wave travels, which makes it this kind of wave. This kind of wave is formed when all parts of the wave travel with the same speed.
Coriolis force
Kelvin Wave
nondispersive
[missing]
Identify this quantity, the product of mass, velocity, radius and the sine of the angle between the velocity and radius.
These mathematical symbols occur when adding angular momentum in quantum mechanics. These symbols are normally used to integrate products of three spherical harmonics.
This theorem states that the dependence of a matrix element of irreducible tensors on the projection quantum numbers is entirely contained by the Clebsch-Gordan coefficient. It also provides a formal expression for the conservation of angular momentum.
angular momentum
Clebsch-Gordan coefficients [or Wigner 3j symbols or Racah V coefficients]
Wigner-Eckart theorem
[missing]
Name this type of magnetism in which neighboring spins are aligned antiparallel, causing materials with this property to exhibit no net magnetic field.
A sharp maximum in this property for antiferromagnetic materials occurs at the NÃ©el point. For ferromagnets above the Curie point, it can be computed using the Curie-Weiss law, and it is the ratio between induced magnetization and the inducing magnetic field.
The interactions in this type of magnet switch randomly between ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic. The Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model is a mean-field theory of this substance that Parisi conjectured could be solved using a broken replica symmetry, which Talagrand showed did not hold beyond the Almeida-Thouless line.
antiferromagnetism
magnetic susceptibility
spin glass
[missing]
Name this subset of constant-sum games.
Zero-sum games are often tackled with this type of strategy, which assign probability values to defined or "pure" strategies and pick randomly based on them.
This man defined mixed strategies in his collaboration with John Von Neumann titled Theory of Games and Economic Behavior. This German economist took Von Neumann's theory and applied it to business practice.
zero-sum games
mixed strategies
Oskar Morgenstern
[missing]
Name these molecules that are composed of purines and pyrimidines and include DNA and RNA.
This program compares regions of nucleotides in DNA sequences and is available on the NCBI website. It is faster but less sensitive than the Needleman-Wusch algorithm and was developed after FASTA.
This local search algorithm is based on the global search Needleman-Wusch algorithm. It uses a matrix to calculate similarity scores for segments of all possible lengths.
nucleic acid [prompt on DNA or RNA or deoxyribonucleic acid]
BLAST [or Basic Local Alignment Search Tool]
Smith-Waterman algorithm
[missing]
Name this polymer that prevents osmotic lysis.
This type of antibiotic, named for the ring it contains, inhibits the synthesis of peptidoglycan, which causes bacteria to undergo osmotic lysis when dividing. Penicillin is one class of this type of antibiotic.
This penicillin-class antibiotic names a strain of Staphylococcus aureus, also known as MRSA, which is resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics because it synthesizes beta-lactamase.
peptidoglycan
beta-lactam antibiotics
methicillin
The Man's Manual of the Steam Engine and Other Prime Movers contained a systematic treatment of steam engine history. For 10 points each:
Name this engineer whose thermodynamic cycle is used for steam power installations where a condensable vapor provides the working fluid 
Rankine developed a form of the Clausius-Clapeyron equation. The Clausius-Capeyron equation can be used to find how the vapor pressure changes as a function of temperature for this curve on a phase diagram
This equation was introduced because the Clasius-Capeyron equation fails at high pressures nad near the critical point. It equates the log of pressure to A minus B over temperature plus C, where A, B, and C are the equation's namesake coefficients. 
William John Macquorn Rankine
vaporization curve 
Antoine equation
Riftia pachyptila, the "giant" one of these organisms, lives over a mile deep in the ocean, and they include the genus Lamellibranchia. For 10 points each:
Name these annelids that live near hydrothermal vents and rely on chemosynthetic bacteria to survive.
Those chemosynthetic bacteria oxidize this element. When combined with two hydrogens, this element reacts with iron two plus and is eventually converted to pyrite.
Tubeworms contain this structure between their inner digestive tract and outer body wall. This structure is a fluid-filled body cavity that contains organs and provides a hydrostatic skeleton.
giant tubeworms 
sulfur 
coelom
This postulation states that DNA and protein sequences evolve at a rate that is relatively constant over time and among different organisms, and received theoretical backing from Kimura's neutral theory. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis proposed by Emile Zuckerlandl and another scientist which implies that levels of molecular genetic variation can be used to estimate divergence times.
This secondary structure of proteins is stabilized by intrachain hydrogen bonds between the carbonyl oxygen of one amino acid and the backbone nitrogen of another amino acid located four positions away.
This vitamin-imbibing scientist helped propose both the molecular clock hypothesis and the alpha helix motif in proteins.
molecular clock hypothesis
alpha helix
Linus Pauling 
In the black-spot type of this plant's dermatitis, its resin is exposed to the air and forms a black lacquerlike substance. For 10 points each:
Name this plant in the Toxicodendron family that has three leaves like its close relative poison oak.
This oleoresin is the allergen present in the sap of plants in the Toxicodendron family. It is the most common allergy in the United States.
After being absorbed into the skin, urushiol is oxidized to form an o-quinone, which is one of these molecules that can only elicit an immune response when conjugated to a carrier molecule such as a protein.
poison ivy
urushiol
haptene 
This quantity is found by approximating a set in terms of unions of other sets whose geometry is known and whose "volumes" are known. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity that is 0 for the Cantor set and which is intuitively defined as the size of a set.
This is a collection of subsets of the reals that is closed under countable unions, countable intersections and complements.
The smallest sigma algebra that contains all open sets is named after this French mathematician. This man names a theorem with Heine that every open cover of a closed and bounded set of real numbers has a finite subcover.
Lebesgue measure 
sigma algebra 
Felix Edouard Justin Emile Borel
This problem was first introduced by Steven Cook in his paper "The complexity of theorem proving procedures," and finding a polynomial-time algorithm for an NP-Complete problem would answer this question in the affirmative. For 10 points each:
Name this major unsolved problem in computer science that seeks to determine whether any problem that can be solved in polynomial time on a non-deterministic Turing machine can be solved in polynomial time by a deterministic Turing machine.
This was the first problem to be proved NP-Complete. It involves determining whether a given boolean formula can ever evaluate to true, and its input is usually in conjunctive normal form.
This theorem stated that the boolean satisifiability problem was NP-Complete.
P versus NP problem [or Does P = NP?; accept interrogative forms]
boolean satisfiability problem [or SAT]
Cook-Levin theorem
[missing]
Name this device often used in optical telescopes, where it can be combined with a Schmidt corrector plate.
The advantage of a Cassegrain reflector is that it diminishes this blurring effect common in other reflecting telescopes. This phenomenon can be almost entirely corrected by using a paraboloidal primary mirror and a hyperboloid secondary mirror.
The use of mirrors in Cassegrain and other reflecting telescopes eliminates this type of aberration common in refracting telescopes. It occurs when the use of a glass lens causes color distortion.
Cassegrain reflector [or Cassegrain telescope]
spherical aberration [prompt on "aberration"]
chromatic aberration
[missing]
Name this geologic theory which held the rocks of the earth were formed by deposits from a gigantic ocean which slowly subsided.
Werner theorized that one layer of deposits occurred during this event, in which the earth was covered for forty days and forty nights.
This geologist wrote Principles of Geology, which popularized Hutton's theory of uniformitarianism and condemned Werner's theory to the waste bin of science.
Neptunism
Noah's flood [or the Deluge]
Charles Lyell
[missing]
Name this technique for determining the physical and chemical properties of atoms and molecules, mainly through the use of its proton and carbon-13 types.
This is the process by which an excited magnetic moment returns back to equilibrium in NMR. It usually has two components, spin-lattice, or T1, and spin-spin, or T2.
This effect in NMR spectroscopy is an enhancement or reduction in the intensity of the resonance of a spin upon saturation or inversion of the resonance of a second spin that lies close in space. Ashbrook, et al. observed this effect in the solid-state boron-11 NMR spectra of borane adducts.
NMR [or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy]
relaxation
NOE [or nuclear Overhauser effect; prompt on Overhauser effect]
[missing]
Name this term from linear algebra that applies to a collection of vectors if none of them can be written as a combination of finitely many other vectors in the collection.
This man's identity is used when proving that the Wronskian must be zero for two functions to be the solution to a homogenous second-order linear differential equation. It sets the Wronskian equal to a constant times e to the negative integral of p of x dx.
If two solutions to a homogenous second-order linear differential equation are linearly independent then they form a set of solutions described by this word. This word describes a theorem in calculus which loosely states that the opposite of integration is differentiation.
linearly independent
Niels Henrik Abel
fundamental
[missing]
Name this region at the end of a chromosome that consists of a sequence of six repeating base pairs.
In humans, this is the sequence of six base pairs that repeats in telomeres.
This disorder is caused by a deletion on chromosome 5; one of the genes known to be removed is the reverse transcriptase component of telomerase, which helps keep the tips of telomeres intact. This disorder is named for the distinctive cry of children who have it.
telomere
TTAGGG
Cri-du-Chat syndrome
[missing]
Identify this device that consists of two parallel, flat, partially transmissive mirrors.
Fabry-PÃ©rot cavities that are four kilometers in length are used in LIGO in an attempt to detect these waves. These waves propagate as ripples in the curvature of spacetime.
The declining orbital period of this binary pair gave indirect evidence of gravity waves. It won its two namesakes a Nobel Prize in Physics.
Fabry-PÃ©rot cavity [or Fabry-PÃ©rot resonator or Fabry-PÃ©rot interferometer]
gravitational waves [or gravity waves]
Hulse-Taylor binary pulsar
The most common symptom of this disorder is loud and chronic snoring. For 10 points each:
Name this disorder in which pauses in breathing occur while someone is asleep due to a blockage or narrowing of the airway.
This common treatment for severe obstructive sleep apnea blows air down your throat while you're asleep so that your airways do not become constricted.
Moving the mandible and this other part of the jaw forward in a surgery known as MMA is also an effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea.
obstructive sleep apnea syndrome [or OSAS or Cheyne-Stokes breathing or Sleep-disordered breathing; prompt on apnea]
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure machine
maxilla [prompt on upper jaw or synonyms thereof]
Metal carbonyls are coordination complexes that contain ligands of this molecule. For 10 points each:
Name this molecule, which binds to hemoglobin about 300 times as avidly as oxygen.
Carbon monoxide is a component of water gas, which is used in this process to convert nickel oxide to pure nickel metal.
The first enzyme to be crystallized was this enzyme. At the time, it was claimed that it contained no metals, but it was later found that this enzyme actually contained nickel ions, which play an integral part in its function of converting a certain substance into ammonia and bicarbonate.
carbon monoxide 
Mond process
urease 
This vector represents the direction of energy flow in a system. For 10 points each:
Name this vector from electromagnetism defined as the 1 over mu-nought times the cross product of the electric field and magnetic field.
Since the Poynting vector represents energy flux, one would expect the partial derivative of energy density with respect to time plus the divergence of the Poynting vector to equal 0 due to the form of this type of differential equation that describes the transport of conserved quantities.
When using Maxwell's equations to solve the continuity equation for the Poynting vector, one instead finds it is equal to the negative of the dot product of the electric field and this quantity, symbolized J.
Poynting vector
continuity equation
current density [prompt on current]
Quantization of vortices occurs in this state of matter. For 10 points each:
Name this state of matter with zero viscosity.
Unlike helium-4, which is a boson, helium-3 is a fermion and thus must form these entities in order to transition to a superfluid. These entities are better known for being formed by electrons in the BCS theory of superconductivity.
Superfluid helium-3 has this property because Cooper pairs have a relative orbital angular momentum of 1. David Mermin coined the term boojum to describe the arrangement of these lines in a spherical droplet of superfluid helium-3.
superfluid 
Cooper pair 
anisotropy [accept word forms]
Geoffrey Marcy pioneered the use of the radial velocity method to detect these bodies. For 10 points each:
Name these distant bodies which orbit stars and which could support life if in the habitable zone.
This red dwarf star system is known to contain six extrasolar planets. In May 2011, its "d" planet was confirmed to be able to support life partially because it wouldn't experience Rayleigh scattering and it's "g" planet is supposedly in the habitable zone.
This other method for finding extrasolar planet requires that the orbital plane of the planet and star line up with the telescope. It detects drops in starlight caused by a planet passing in front of its star.
exoplanets [or extrasolar planets; prompt on planets]
Gliese 581 
transit photometry
The origin of this property in crystals is the anisotropy in the bonding forces between atoms, leading to different indices of refraction. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a ray of light is decomposed into two rays of light.
The most commonly used birefringent material is calcite, or Iceland spar, which is often used in polarizing prisms such as the Glan-Foucault and Wollaston prisms. This was the first polarizing prism and it uses two prisms of calcite cemented with Canada balsam.
This is the angle of incidence that produces a 90 degree angle between reflected and refracted rays, causing the reflected light to be polarized.
birefringence [or double refraction]
Nicol prism
Brewster's angle
Examples of this phenomenon in the Mediterranean include the gregale and the khamsin. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon which is categorized by the Beaufort scale based on open sea conditions.
Also called windrows, this phenomenon results in long parallel streaks of debris or bubbles when wind blows across calm water.
A haboob is an example of this phenomenon that occurs when strong winds blow loose debris. They are particularly common in deserts.
wind 
Langmuir circulation
sandstorm [or duststorm]
In gas chromatography, this part of the system is usually a liquid adsorbed on a solid matrix. For 10 points each:
Name this phase through which the mobile phase flows.
This form of chromatography works on the same basic principles as thin layer and column chromatography and forces the mobile phase through a column at high pressure.
This is the most commonly used form of HPLC. In it, the silica stationary phase is made non-polar and polar molecules travel through the column more quickly.
stationary phase
HPLC [or high-performance liquid chromatography; prompt on liquid chromatography]
reverse phase HPLC [or RPC]
In a functional language without dataflow variables, this strategy can be sequential. For 10 points each:
Name this execution strategy that consists of only executing a statement when its result is needed somewhere else in the program.
One encounters lazy evaluation most often in this model of programming that encompasses programming with functions over complete values and deterministic logic programming.
The syntax of programming languages is defined by this set of rules for how to make statements out of tokens. Most programming languages are defined in two parts: a context-free one of them supplemented by imposing a set of extra conditions. Taking those extra conditions into account yields a context-sensitive one.
lazy evaluation [or demand-driven evaluation]
declarative programming
Grammar 
Along with r-selection, it was first proposed by Wilson and MacArthur in their 1967 book The Theory of Island Biogeography. For 10 points each:
Name this type of selection that occurs in crowded areas and selects for efficiency of conservation of food and increased parental investment.
R-selected species tend to have a higher value for this measure than K-selected species. This is the measure of the variety of life and incorporates the multifariousness of genes, species and ecosystems.
This is any process that removes biomass from a community and it heavily influences species coexistence and biodiversity. An intermediate frequency of these processes maximizes biodiversity according to its intermediate namesake hypothesis.
K-selection
biodiversity 
disturbances 
Care must be taken to make sure that these circuit elements are oriented properly or they will operate in reverse bias mode and act like an open circuit. For 10 points each:
Name this simplest circuit element with a nonlinear i-v relationship.
This type of diode is designed to withstand an effect in which a high reverse voltages accelerates carriers in the depletion region, causing them to produce electron-hole pairs when they collide with the lattice. Those pairs then become free carriers and are accelerated, collide with the lattice and create more carriers.
Zener diodes are designed to operate in this region. The voltage in this region is relatively insensitive to the current flowing through the diode, making them ideal for voltage regulation.
diode 
avalanche diode 
reverse breakdown region
This formula leads naturally to the identity e to the i pi plus 1 is equal to 0. For 10 points each:
Name this identity which states that e to the i x is equal to cosine of x plus i times sine of x.
This formula states that cosine of x plus i times sine of x all raised to the nth power is equal to cosine of n times x plus i times sine of n times x, and is trivial to prove using Euler's formula.
This method of numerical integration is based on approximating f of x by an interpolatory polynomial agreeing with it at the Chebyshev points, and then integrating the interpolatory polynomial. An equivalent way of describing it is transforming the variable of integration from x to cosine of theta, and its accuracy is comparable to that of Gauss quadrature.
Euler's formula [or Euler's identity]
de Moivre's formula [or de Moivre's identity]
Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature
