In the 1960s, American physicist Luis Alvarez proposed using these phenomena to hunt for undiscovered rooms in Egyptian pyramids. For 10 points each:
Name this type of extremely high-energy radiation from outside the Solar System. Unlike gamma rays, they are made of massive particles, not photons.
The most common component of cosmic rays is this positively charged particle. There are two of them in an alpha particle and one in a hydrogen atom.
Alvarez’s earlier work with protons included designing one of these devices for the Bevatron proton collider. Donald Glaser invented this device, in which charged particles leave tracks while passing through superheated fluid.
cosmic rays
protons
bubble chamber &lt;SE&gt;
This element is reduced at the cathode of a Daniell cell, which consists of a pot made of this element filled with its bright blue sulfate solution. For 10 points each:
Name this reddish-brown transition metal with symbol Cu.
Many of copper’s useful electrochemical reactions are driven by its conversion between what two non-elemental oxidation states? For 5 points each: give both states, indicating both the charge and whether it is positive or negative.
One such reaction is the biuret test, in which copper(II) [copper-two] is reduced to copper(I) [copper-one] in the presence of these bonds.
copper
+1 [plus-one] AND +2 [plus-two] [accept answers in either order; accept positive one AND positive two]
peptide bonds [prompt on amide bonds] &lt;SE&gt;
The price of these devices has skyrocketed due to their popularity for mining Bitcoin. For 10 points each:
Name these devices, which are designed for massively parallel operations and are thus perfectly suited for deep learning architectures. The first one of these devices was Nvidia’s GeForce 256.
Despite those alternative uses, GPUs are designed primarily to process computer graphics, including this operation, which is often performed via ray tracing.
The namesake rays of ray tracing pass through a single one of these points on the image. These points are the smallest unit of a raster image, and they are more visible in low-resolution images.
GPUs [or graphics processing units; do not accept or prompt on “CPU”]
rendering
pixels &lt;JR&gt;
Warfarin, despite being a common anti-clotting drug, has no effect on the function of these particles. For 10 points each:
Name these cytoplasmic fragments that undergo activation, adhesion, and aggregation in the coagulation cascade alongside the maturation of fibrin. They are often mistakenly called a kind of blood cell.
This X-linked recessive clotting disorder has a “royal” form which results from a defective Factor VIII and can cause fatal internal bleeding. It was common in European royal houses in the 1800s.
Factor VIII circulates in complex with this other non-numerically named glycoprotein, whose defects can cause a namesake hemophilia-like syndrome. Defects in this glycoprotein comprise the most common clotting disorder.
platelets
hemophilia
von Willebrand factor &lt;HK&gt;
A battle sometimes named for this town is more usually known as the Battle of Passchendaele. For 10 points each:
Name this Belgian town, where the Germans first used poison gas during a 1915 battle. Roughly five battles were fought at this town during World War I.
The gas used at Ypres was made of this chemical element, which is found with sulfur and carbon in mustard gas. Ignaz Semmelweis pioneered the use of bleaching powder, which contains this halogen, as a disinfectant.
This German chemist suggested the use of chlorine gas at Ypres. His lab developed the precursor to the Zyklon B gas that was used in the gas chambers at Auschwitz and other Nazi death camps.
Ypres [eepr] [or Wipers]
chlorine
Fritz Haber &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about muons [MYOO-awnz]:
Since they have a spin of one-half and a charge of negative one, muons often behave like super-heavy versions of these tiny elementary particles, which orbit the nucleus of an atom.
The Rossi–Hall experiment of 1940 found that fast-traveling muons produced in the upper atmosphere have extended lifetimes, an illustration of this consequence of special relativity.
Muons are actually elementary particles, but they were initially thought to belong to this class of composite particles made of a quark and an antiquark. Actual examples of these particles include the pion and the kaon.
electrons
time dilation
mesons [prompt on hadrons] &lt;SE&gt;
This ingredient is ground to make masa. For 10 points each:
Name this ingredient that’s produced by soaking a dried ingredient in an alkaline solution, a process called nixtamalization.
Hominy is featured prominently in pozole, a soup that’s often made in this color. A salsa of this color is made from tomatillos, which share this color with jalapeño and poblano peppers.
Hominy is often used as the main ingredient basic building block of this porridge. This American dish is usually white, which is basically the only thing that distinguishes it from Italian polenta.
hominy corn [prompt on corn or maize]
green [or verde]
grits &lt;JR&gt;
This model of the atom was the first to account for the negative charge of electrons in a neutral atom. For 10 points each:
Name this model of the atom proposed by J.J. Thomson, which explained atoms as a mass of positive charge with electrons embedded in it.
The Rutherford gold foil experiment disproved the plum pudding model by demonstrating the existence of this part of an atom. This part of the atom is made up of protons and neutrons.
After observing that few alpha particles were strongly scattered, Rutherford developed a mathematical model for atomic scattering, which unusually depends on this function of the scattering angle over two to the fourth power.
plum pudding model
atomic nucleus [or atomic nuclei]
cosecant [do not accept or prompt on “secant”] &lt;HK/AF&gt;
Common varieties of this stone are colloquially called “potch” and do not display the characteristic play-of-color gem-quality variants exhibit. For 10 points each:
Name these stones that are mostly mined in Australia and come in fire, black, and boulder varieties. These stones are normally cut as cabochons to show off the iridescence for which they’re prized.
Opal consists of a hydrated form of this element’s dioxide. Quartz, the primary component of sand, is made of this element’s dioxide.
Many forms of silicon dioxide exist as this general kind of solid, which has no repeating structure. Glass is an archetypal example of this kind of solid, while quartz is not this kind of solid.
opals
silicon [accept Si]
amorphous solids &lt;HK&gt;
The relative energies of these constructs can be approximated with the LCAO method. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs that represent probability distributions of electrons in polyatomic systems. The theory of these constructs is an alternative to the “hybridization” model of valence bond theory.
Molecular orbitals that are formed by the destructive interference of atomic orbitals have this property. Orbitals with this property have higher energies than corresponding orbitals of the opposite type.
Walsh diagrams show how energies of molecular orbitals change with this value for a molecule. Water has a value of 104 degrees for this value and tetrahedral compounds theoretically have a value of 109.5 degrees for this quantity; a description is fine.
molecular orbitals [or MOs]
antibonding orbitals
bond angle &lt;CK&gt;
If this sum converges to a function in a given interval, then that function is called “analytic.” For 10 points each:
Give this term for the best polynomial approximation of a function, which is usually an infinite sum. These polynomials are named for Maclaurin when centered around 0.
The coefficient of the x term in a Taylor polynomial is this value for the function at the chosen center point. This value can be thought of as the instantaneous slope of a function, or the opposite of its integral.
Give the first two nonzero terms of the Taylor polynomial for the sine function. It may help you to remember that sine is an odd function, so these terms will be the x and x3 terms.
Taylor polynomial [or Taylor series, or Taylor approximation]
first derivative [accept differentiation or word forms]
x – ⅙ x3 [x minus 1-6th x-cubed] &lt;JW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about paradoxes in classical philosophy:
This Plato dialogue presents a paradox that can be summarized: “You can’t search for what you already know, since you already know it; you can’t search for what you don’t know, since then you don’t know what to look for.”
This follower of Parmenides pioneered arguments by contradiction and reductio ad absurdum with a paradox about an arrow, and another paradox about Achilles and the tortoise.
Zeno’s paradoxes often rely on producing this quantity of tasks to do, which can’t be done in any given amount of time. Aristotle solved the paradoxes by contrasting versions of this property for divisibility and extension.
Meno
Zeno of Elea
infinity [or infinite] &lt;JW&gt;
These organelles contain translocases named TIC and TOC. For 10 points each,
Name these organelles that contain thylakoid membranes surrounding a fluid known as stroma. Photosynthesis occurs in these organelles.
Chloroplasts, like mitochondria, contain their own DNA. Mitochondrial DNA has been used to trace this most recent-common female ancestor of all living humans, who lived anywhere from 180-580,000 years ago.
This theory postulates that both chloroplasts and mitochondria exist as the result of cyanobacteria and proteobacteria being absorbed by other cells and adapting, thus explaining why they have their own DNA.
chloroplasts
mitochondrial Eve [or mt-Eve, or mt-MRCA]
endosymbiotic theory &lt;HK&gt;
In two dimensions, this type of transformation is represented by a two-by-two matrix with “cosine theta” on the diagonal and “plus or minus sine theta” in the off-diagonal entries. For 10 points each:
Name this type of motion. The kinetic energy due to this type of motion is given by “one-half I times omega-squared.”
Classroom demonstrations of rotational motion often use this device, a spinning disk locked within three independently rotating frames called gimbals. Airplanes and smartphones use these devices for directional sensing.
The analysis of a gyroscope would be more difficult if it were not one of these objects, in which the distance between any pair of points is fixed. Max Born showed that these objects are difficult to define in special relativity.
rotation [or rotational motion]
gyroscopes
rigid bodies [prompt on partial answer] &lt;SE&gt;
The Whitcomb area rule provides a prescription for minimizing <em>this</em> quantity for aircraft traveling near the speed of sound. For 10 points each:
Name this force that acts to oppose thrust.
An object that begins falling from rest will attain this maximum velocity when the upward drag and buoyancy forces equal the downward gravity force. This velocity is often around 50 meters per second for skydivers.
A major source of aerodynamic drag is the formation of these swirling disturbances at the trailing edge of an airplane’s wing. “Streets” of these phenomena are created in the atmosphere during a flow separation.
drag [or air resistance or fluid resistance; prompt on resistance]
terminal velocity
vortices [accept vortex streets] &lt;SE&gt;
These objects are called “primary” if they can only be used once, and “secondary” if they can be reused. For 10 poins each:
Identify these commercial galvanic cells that supply consumer products with a fixed voltage. Rechargeable ones are often made of nickel–cadmium or nickel–metal hydride.
Most rechargeable car batteries contain a strong acid and this heavy metal, which is both reduced at the battery’s cathode and oxidized at the anode.
Some early electric vehicles, on the other hand, were powered by batteries that paired sodium with this element. This nonmetal is paired with lithium in a cutting-edge battery technology known for its very high energy density.
batteries [accept nickel–cadmium battery or nickel-metal hydride battery]
lead [or Pb]
sulfur [or S] &lt;SE&gt;
Luminosity is typically plotted against this quantity on H–R diagrams. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that gradually decreases along with luminosity for main-sequence stars. The value of this quantity can be as high as fifty thousand Kelvin for O-type stars.
Stars evolving according to the main sequence of an HR diagram start in one quadrant and end in another quadrant. Give both quadrants, indicating which is the start and which is the end.
Former main sequence dwarf stars that have lost the ability to fuse hydrogen are described with this color. Dwarfs of this color have lower mass than red dwarfs and can be distinguished by the presence of lithium.
effective temperature [prompt on T]
start in the top left [accept reasonable equivalents like upper left] and end in the bottom right [accept reasonable equivalents like lower right]
brown dwarfs &lt;BY/AF&gt;
People infected with any of <em>this</em> group of diseases can be co-infected with babesiosis [buh-bee-zee-OH-sis] or human granulocytic anaplasmosis. For 10 points each:
Name these diseases which, like typhus, are caused by bacteria of genus Rickettsia. These diseases present with a patterned rash on the skin.
B. burgdorferi is spread by these arthropods, which can also carry the causative agent of Rocky Mountain spotted fever and Lyme disease.
Ticks, mosquitoes, and other animals which transmit pathogens between reservoir species and host species are referred to by this term in epidemiology. These species can also be the pathogen’s reservoir species.
spotted fevers [accept Rocky Mountain spotted fever or Mediterranean spotted fever; accept RMSF; accept MSF; prompt on fevers]
ticks [or Ixodida]
disease vectors &lt;HK&gt;
Bismuth is the element that exhibits this property most strongly, and it is generally observed in materials with paired electrons. For 10 points each:
Name this property of materials that repel applied magnetic fields.
Superconductors exhibit this type of perfect diamagnetism, in which they completely expel a magnetic field from their interior. This effect was discovered in 1933.
In paramagnetism, magnetization grows with applied field according to a law named for Pierre, a physicist with this surname. Pierre’s Polish wife, who took this surname, was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize.
diamagnetism [do not accept or prompt on just “magnetism”]
Meissner effect [or Meissner–Ochsenfeld effect]
Curie [accept Pierre Curie or Marie Sklodowska Curie] &lt;SE&gt;
This process is initiated when Fas ligands bind to their receptors. For 10 points each,
Name this process of programmed cell death. Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondria in a cascade that leads to this process.
This transcription factor increases transcription of genes in the Bcl-2 family, which regulate apoptosis. This protein is nonfunctional in over half of human cancers and is known as the “guardian of the genome.”
p53 arrests the cell cycle at this transition, thereby allowing DNA repair proteins to repair damage before replication. Cells can enter quiescence at this transition.
apoptosis
tumor protein p53 [accept basically anything containing p53]
G1/S transition &lt;HK&gt;
Under this theory, the pressure of a gas is due to the collisions between gas molecules and between molecules and the walls of the container. For 10 points each:
Name this theory that assumes a large number of small particles of identical mass interact with each other only during collisions which have a negligible duration.
KMT uses a unique definition of this quantity, relating it to the average kinetic energy of the system. According to the third law of thermodynamics, a crystal with a value of zero for this quantity has zero entropy.
The KMT definition of temperature can be derived from this statement, which relates the product of pressure and volume to the temperature of certain gases. This statement combines Charles', Boyle's, and Gay-Lussac's Laws.
Kinetic Molecular Theory [accept “kinetic theory of gases”; or KMT]
temperature
ideal gas law &lt;CK&gt;
This quantity increases due to “brine rejection” from ice, and it increases at the surface in upwelling. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, which changes with temperature and salinity to drive the thermohaline circulation. A description is fine.
This component of the thermohaline circulation has decreased in strength by over 30% since the 1950s. This system runs up the east coast of the U.S. and then crosses the Atlantic to warm Western Europe.
Despite global warming, a “cold blob” has developed in the North Atlantic. Scientists hypothesize that melting ice on this nearby island—the largest in the world—is to blame, since melting ice decreases the salinity of water.
seawater density [accept any answer describing the density of seawater or saltwater; prompt on partial answer]
the Gulf Stream
Greenland &lt;AF/BY&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about cosmological theories:
Georges Lemaitre was the first to propose this event, in which all the matter in the universe expanded from a single point. Modern astrophysics dates it to roughly 13.8 billion years ago.
In order to explain the homogeneity and flatness of the universe, Alan Guth proposed that the Big Bang was immediately followed by this period of faster-than-light expansion.
The term “Big Bang” was coined by Fred Hoyle, who preferred this alternate theory in which the universe has no beginning, and only expands because matter is being continually created.
Big Bang
cosmic inflation [or inflationary epoch]
steady state model [or steady state theory] &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about metal-oxo complexes:
Metal-oxo complexes are capable of converting an oxo to an alcohol by abstracting this lightest element, such as in cytochrome P450s.
The “oxo-wall” refers to the fact that metal-oxo complexes with tetragonal symmetry cannot form when the number of electrons in these orbitals is greater than 5. These orbitals are partially filled in transition metals.
Though oxo is usually a terminal ligand, it can also act as one of these ligands, which are bound to multiple metal centers. Ligands of this kind are denoted with a mu.
hydrogen
d orbitals
bridging ligands &lt;CK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about different types of velocity in astrophysics:
This velocity is the minimum required to leave the gravitational influence of a body. It is given by the formula “square root of 2 G M over r,” and is about 11 kilometers per second for the Earth.
The “radial velocity” method is a popular technique for this task. This task has led to the discovery of potentially habitable objects like Kepler-62f.
One formulation of Kepler’s Second Law states that the value of this type of velocity for a planet is constant throughout its orbit around the Sun. A description is fine.
escape velocity
finding exoplanets [accept equivalents, prompt on answers stating “finding planets” with “where?”]
areal velocity [or sectorial velocity; accept any answer indicating the rate at which area is swept out] &lt;AF&gt;
This property is possessed “maximally” by the particles in a Bell state. For 10 points each:
Name this property of systems whose states cannot be factored into a tensor product of individual components.
This German–American physicist was skeptical of quantum mechanics, calling entanglement “spooky action at a distance,” and declaring “God does not play with dice” in debates with Niels Bohr. He invented general relativity.
Notwithstanding Einstein’s objections, entanglement is the key to distributing information among these fundamental units of quantum computation. They can take a continuous set of values rather than just “0” or “1.”
quantum entanglement [accept entangled]
Albert Einstein
qubits [KYOO-bits] [do not accept or prompt on “bits”] &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the numerous contributions of Sir Ronald Fisher to biology:
Fisher developed this idea, by which having exactly one dominant and one recessive allele leads to higher fitness. This concept underlies the idea of “hybrid vigor” and is exemplified by the sickle-cell malaria interaction.
Fisher’s principle explains why the ratio of males to females is roughly this value across species. It argues that, if the sex ratio were not this value, then one sex would have higher fitness, leading the sex ratio to return to this value. A description is fine.
Fisher also names a “runaway hypothesis” concerning extreme forms of this kind of selection. An example of this kind of selection is the red gular pouch of male frigatebirds.
heterozygote advantage
fifty-fifty [or one-to-one; accept any answer indicating equal amounts]
sexual selection &lt;BY/AF&gt;
The Einstein model of a solid correctly predicts the high-temperature behavior of this quantity as described by the Dulong–Petit law. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, the amount of added heat necessary to raise the temperature of a substance by a degree.
Heat capacity is defined as the derivative of heat with respect to temperature, holding one of these two quantities constant. These two quantities are related by Boyle’s law; name both.
The Debye model of solids was a major improvement on the Einstein model, since it correctly predicts that heat capacity scales with this power of the temperature for low temperatures.
specific heat capacity [or specific heat]
pressure AND volume [accept in either order; prompt on P and V or PV]
third power [or cube] &lt;AF&gt;
When two vector quantities in physics are combined, it’s often with a cross product. Identify some situations in which that occurs, for 10 points each.
According to one term in the Lorentz force law, the force on a charged particle is proportional to its velocity crossed with this field, which points from north poles to south poles and is produced by iron samples.
When one of these things is placed in an electric field, it feels a torque given by the cross product of its strength and the electric field. The strength of these entities is measured in debyes.
The electric and magnetic fields are crossed with each other in the definition of this vector denoted S, which indicates the direction and magnitude of the energy flux carried by an electromagnetic wave.
magnetic field
electric dipole [accept dipole moment; do not accept or prompt on “magnetic dipole”]
Poynting vector &lt;SE&gt;   Tiebreaker
One of these systems orbiting Neptune is divided into the subsystems Courage, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. For 10 points each:
Name these systems possessed by planets like Jupiter and Uranus. Competing theories for their formation include the disruption of debris from a moon and asteroids passing within a planet’s Roche Limit.
The most extensive planetary ring system in the Solar System orbits this gas giant. This planet’s largest moon, Titan, is the only moon in the Solar System with its own atmosphere.
Planetary rings are prevented from spreading out through this process, in which interactions with moons like Saturn’s Prometheus keep the rings contained.
planetary rings
Saturn
shepherding [accept word forms; accept shepherd moons] &lt;AF&gt;
Relative values for <em>this</em> property for hydrophobic and hydrophilic media are quantified by the partition coefficient. For 10 points each:
Name this property that is very strong for nitrates and compounds containing alkali metals. Compounds with low values for this property tend to precipitate out.
Sieverts’s law relates the solubility of a gas in a metal to this quantity for the gas. For a reaction with gaseous reactants and products, this quantity for each gas is exponentiated to give the equilibrium constant.
Partial pressure of a gas and solubility of that gas are proportional according to this law, which applies to much more “dilute” solutions than those described by Raoult’s law.
solubility [accept word forms]
partial pressure [do not accept or prompt on partial (heh) answers]
Henry’s law &lt;AF&gt;
In their replicated form, these structures are typically symmetrical about a centromere. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that form from the condensation of DNA wrapped around histones. The sister chromatids of these structures are separated in mitosis.
Histones can be modified to affect gene expression; for example, this process modifies a histone at a CpG island, effectively preventing gene transcription. Barr bodies undergo this process extensively.
Methylation and other histone modifications that affect gene expression are examples of this type of inheritance, in which factors other than the basic nucleotide sequence affect the expression of traits.
chromosomes
methylation
epigenetics &lt;HK&gt;
A common digital representation of this characteristic is known as a DEM. For 10 points each:
Name this characteristic of a piece of land that’s depicted by maps using contour lines and hypsometric tints. This property is contrasted with “altitude,” which refers to objects above the Earth’s surface.
This modern technique can be used for mapping elevation or other topographic features. In general, this term refers to collecting data about a location using satellites or aircraft.
The “synthetic aperture” form of this technology can be used in remote sensing to make 3D models of objects. Both police and baseball scouts use a “gun” relying on this technology to measure an object’s speed.
elevation [accept relief]
remote sensing [do not accept or prompt on partial answer or synonyms]
radar &lt;AF&gt;
The valence and conduction bands of this substance meet at Dirac points, making it a zero gap semiconductor. For 10 points each:
Name this 2-dimensional lattice of hexagons. This allotrope of carbon was first isolated by Geim and Novoselov in 2004.
This substance, like graphene, is an allotrope of carbon consisting of a tetrahedrally bonded covalent network lattice. This mineral has the highest rating of 10 on the traditional Mohs hardness scale.
A carbon nanotube’s diameter can be determined with this spectroscopic technique. In this technique, which relies on its namesake’s form of inelastic scattering, sample molecules decay radiatively from virtual states.
graphene
diamond
Raman spectroscopy &lt;CK&gt;
This quantity is usually denoted <em>T</em> when writing out a system’s Lagrangian. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that can be written as “momentum-squared over two-times-mass.” For a pendulum, it is greatest at the bottom of the pendulum’s swing.
Kinetic energy can be converted into this other form of energy, which an object possesses purely due to its current position and configuration.
In quantum physics, kinetic energy is given by “minus h-bar squared over 2 m,” all times this operator. Confusingly, this operator can be written as either an upright triangle or as an upside-down triangle, squared.
kinetic energy [prompt on energy]
potential energy
Laplacian [or Laplace operator; accept square of the gradient] &lt;SE&gt;
The myxoma virus was released in order to curtail an invasion of these animals in Australia. For 10 points each:
Name these mammals known for their ability to reproduce extremely quickly.
One difference between rabbits and hares is that rabbits are altricial, meaning they are incapable of doing this basic action at birth.
Terje Lømo [ter-yeh lu-moh] used rabbits to discover long-term potentiation in this region of the brain. That mechanism allows this part of the brain to store memories.
rabbits [or Oryctolagus cuniculus]
moving independently [accept word forms like mobile]
hippocampus &lt;MK&gt;
Electrons in crystals move as if they have an “effective” value for this quantity that can be either positive or negative. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is usually assumed to be zero for the spring of a spring–mass system and the frictionless pulley of an Atwood machine.
Negative effective masses lead to surprising predictions from this law, which states that the acceleration due to a fixed force is inversely proportional to mass. More compactly, this law reads “F equals m a.”
Another useful effective mass is the reduced mass, which appears in the equations of motion for two bodies interacting via gravity. For two bodies of masses m1 and m2, what is the reduced mass?
mass
Newton’s second law of motion [prompt on partial answer]
half the harmonic mean of m1 and m2 [or m1 times m2 over m1 plus m2; do not accept “mean” for “harmonic mean”] &lt;SE&gt;
The alleles for brown and black hair have this property with respect to blonde and red hair. For 10 points each:
Name this property of alleles that will be expressed even in the presence of a corresponding recessive allele.
Given two parents that are heterozygous for the same gene, what proportion of the offspring would you expect to have the dominant phenotype?
In reality, most genes have this property, in which they affect more than one aspect of an organism’s phenotype. Sickle-cell anemia exemplifies this phenomenon, since a single mutation causes all of its phenotypic effects.
dominant [accept word forms like dominance]
three quarters [or 75%; or 3 to 1]
pleiotropy [or pleiotropic gene] &lt;JR&gt;
These structures are made by pounding tall saplings into the ground, then bending them until they meet and tying them together. For 10 points each:
Name these dome-shaped dwellings that take their name from an Abenaki word.
Unlike wigwams, teepees are usually made of rigid woods like the “lodgepole” variety of this tree. These tall evergreens produce the largest cones of any conifer, and their long needles are often used to make tea or crafts.
Yet another type of Native American dwelling is this type of structure used by the Navajo. These dwellings have eastward-facing doorways and typically have mud packed around the outside.
wigwams [or wickiups; or wetus]
lodgepole pine
hogans &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some questions about different kinds of algebra:
Elementary algebra is often concerned with finding the values for these things. x and y are commonly used symbols for these things, which are contrasted with constants.
Many of the structures studied in linear algebra fall into this general class of mathematical objects, which obey certain transformation properties. Scalars are zeroth-degree and vectors are first-degree examples of these objects.
The basic structure of abstract algebra is a group, which consists of one of these objects and a binary operation. These objects are made up of distinct objects and are generally written with curly brackets.
variables
tensors
sets &lt;JW&gt;
The concentration of different species of one of these molecules are plotted as a function of pH on a Bjerrum plot. For 10 points each:
Name these molecules that have multiple equivalence points in a titration, since they can donate more than one hydrogen in solution.
Every subsequent acidic species of a polyprotic acid is this type of acid. Acids of this type do not fully dissociate in solution, and will have an equivalence point pH of greater than 7 when titrated with a strong base.
Suppose you are performing a titration on a weak acid with initial concentration C. If the dissociation of this weak acid is the only significant source of hydrogen ions, what is the equation for “Ka” if x moles of acid dissociate?
polyprotic acids
weak acids
x-squared over (C minus x) [accept “divided by” in place of “over”] &lt;AF&gt;
This process is exemplified by the rapid evolution of Darwin’s Finches into over a dozen different species. For 10 points each:
Name this process, in which environmental changes cause members of one species to quickly diversify into a number of related species.
Adaptive radiation can be prompted by this kind of event, in which the previous occupants of a niche die off. Human-induced climate change has created one of these events by killing off hundreds of species; a description is fine.
After the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction killed off the dinosaurs, this class of animals underwent a massive adaptive radiation, producing orders like Chiroptera.
adaptive radiations
mass extinctions [or extinction event]
placental mammals &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some the following about the self…in computer science:
A function has this property if it calls itself. For example, one can compute N factorial with a function of this kind, which multiplies the current input with the same function called on the current input minus one.
The “red-black” example of these data structures is an example of their “self-balancing” type, which try to keep their maximum and minimum heights similar. These hierarchical data structures have “parent” and “child” nodes.
This programming language strangely requires that all methods within classes have the keyword self as their first argument, but does not require method calls to actually include a reference to the class as an argument.
recursion [accept word forms like recursive]
binary search trees
Python &lt;BY/AF&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the physics of radio broadcasting:
A message can be encoded in a radio wave by modulating either of two properties, leading to the use of what two frequency bands each known by a two-letter abbreviation? Name both.
An AM signal can be transferred to a fixed “intermediate frequency” by combining it with a reference sine wave in this process. This process takes two signals as inputs and outputs a signal at their beat frequency.
After heterodyning, the message can be extracted from the intermediate-frequency signal by applying a “low-pass” one of these electrical circuits. Their “band-pass” type allows through all frequencies in a certain range.
AM and FM [accept amplitude modulation AND frequency modulation]
heterodyning [accept heterodyne or superheterodyne receiver]
filters [accept low-pass filters or band-pass filters] &lt;SE&gt;
This unit is almost, but not quite, equal to one torr, which is in turn equal to one-760<sup>th</sup> of a standard atmosphere. For 10 points each:
Identify this nonstandard unit that measures pressure, despite sounding like a unit of length.
The use of “millimeters of mercury” comes from Evangelista Torricelli, who decided to use mercury instead of water when inventing this device, which measures atmospheric pressure.
The downward pressure from the mercury barometer’s column balances the atmospheric pressure in an illustration of this principle, which states that a change in pressure is transmitted unchanged throughout a fluid.
millimeter(s) of mercury [or mmHg]
barometer
Pascal’s principle [or Pascal’s law] &lt;SE&gt;
During this process, the G1 and G2 phases of interphase are basically skipped, in favor of nearly continuous S and M phases. For 10 points each:
Name this process of rapid cell division without a increase in cytoplasmic volume. It happens more quickly at the animal pole than the vegetal pole.
After cleavage, the blastula reorganizes itself to form this developmental phase, which includes a tube that will later become the digestive tract.
After gastrulation, chordates then form the neural tube, which becomes both the brain and this other part of the central nervous system. This structure is protected by the vertebral column.
cleavage
gastrula [accept gastrulation]
spinal cord &lt;JR&gt;
The fundamental unit of electrical resistance, the von Klitzing constant, is based on the quantum version of this effect. For 10 points each:
Identify this effect, in which applying a magnetic field perpendicular to an electric current in a wire causes the charge carriers in the current to move to one side of the wire.
The buildup of charge due to the Hall effect creates a transverse electric field, so there is a difference in this quantity between the sides of the wire. In simple systems, this quantity is provided by a battery.
By noting the direction of the Hall voltage, you can deduce this property of the charge carriers in the material.
Hall effect
voltage [or electric potential; or potential difference]
the sign of their charge [or whether they are positive or negative; or whether they are electrons or holes; accept similar wordings of all three answers] &lt;SE&gt;
Ellipses and parabolas are two examples of these mathematical constructions. For 10 points each:
Name this general class of mathematical objects, formed by intersecting a plane with their namesake shape.
Conic sections can be defined as the set of points whose distances to a point, known as the focus, and a line, known as the directrix, are in a fixed ratio. This is the term for that ratio.
These shapes have an eccentricity of zero, and consist of all points that are equidistant from a center. They have an area of “pi r-squared.”
conic sections
eccentricity [prompt on e]
circles &lt;JW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the somatic marker hypothesis:
The somatic marker hypothesis states that emotions strongly influence these characteristic actions of an organism. A psychological school named for studying these actions was founded by John Watson and B.F. Skinner.
Somatic markers are primarily processed in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and this part of the brain’s limbic system, which plays a major role in negative emotions like fear and anxiety.
This experimental paradigm was originally formulated by Anthony Damasio et al. to test the somatic marker hypothesis. This paradigm involves choosing from different decks of cards with different proportions of rewards.
behaviors [accept behaviorism]
amygdalae
Iowa gambling task [or IGT; prompt on Gambling Task or OGT] &lt;AF/HK&gt;
Cisplatin contains this many ligands bonded to its central platinum atom. For 10 points each:
Give the number of atoms bonded to the center in square planar and see-saw complexes. Molecules with sp3 hybridization form this many bonds.
sp3-hybridized carbon bonds to four hydrogen atoms to form this tetrahedral molecule, which is the simplest alkane.
Tetrahedral molecules can undergo a form of this process that converts one enantiomer into another and is named for Walden. Another type of this process occurs in a fluxional fashion in ammonia.
four
methane
inversion [accept word forms] &lt;AF/HK&gt;
This technique is often performed following Southern blotting. For 10 points each:
Name this lab technique in which DNA samples are pipetted into an agarose matrix, to which an electric field is then applied. Polyacrylamide is used in a form of this technique called SDS-PAGE.
Nucleic acid gel electrophoresis uses the fact that nucleic acid molecules carry negative charge due to the presence of sugars as well as these groups on their backbones. Three of these groups are attached to adenosine in ATP.
A variant of nucleic acid gel electrophoresis known as TGGE uses the difference in this property between AT and GC base pairs to differentially denature, or linearize, the nucleic acid over the course of the gel.
gel electrophoresis
phosphate group [prompt on “PO4 3-minus”]
melting point [begrudgingly accept freezing point] &lt;HK/AF&gt;
This term refers to extremes of a solid solution series. For 10 points each:
Give this term for minerals that have very high purity of an element that’s substituted for a different element in other minerals. Examples include enstatite and ferrosilite for the olivine series.
Albite and anorthite are the endmembers of the plagioclase series, which substitutes this element for sodium along the series. A phosphate mineral of this mineral is called apatite and is the main constituent of bones and teeth.
The endmembers of the olivine series are forsterite, which is rich in magnesium, and fayalite, which is rich in this element. This metal is found in pyrite.
endmembers
calcium [or Ca]
iron [or Fe] &lt;AF&gt;
This organ contains most of the body’s reserves of serotonin in its enterochromaffin cells. For 10 points each:
Name this organ into which the esophagus empties. This organ produces hydrochloric acid to help digest food.
This ulcer-causing bacterium is a common reason for gastritis, or inflammation of the stomach’s lining. Barry Marshall drank a culture of this bacterium and then treated himself with antibiotics to show that it causes ulcers.
H. pylori infections, as well as GERD and other stomach ulcers, are often treated with these drugs, which target a specific ATPase necessary to maintain the stomach’s acidity.
stomach
Helicobacter pylori [prompt on partial answer]
proton pump inhibitors [or PPIs] &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about sulfate salts.
“Epsom Salt,” a common ingredient in laxatives and bath salts, is the sulfate of this alkaline earth metal that also forms the second most abundant cation in seawater.
Because nickel is the most common metal to cause this reaction, nickel(II) [“nickel-two”] sulfate is sometimes used in patch tests. Histamine causes many of the symptoms of this immune reaction, which can be caused by shellfish or peanuts.
A mixture of radium sulfate and the sulfate of this other alkaline earth metal was used as the neutron source in the discovery of nuclear fission. This alkaline earth metal is also found in heliodor and aquamarine.
magnesium (accept Mg or Mg2+)
allergy (accept word forms; accept type I hypersensitivity or type IV hypersensitivity or delayed-type hypersensitivity; accept contact dermatitis; prompt on inflammation)
beryllium (accept Be) &lt;CGH/K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
The expectation value of an operator named for these systems is used to derive many selection rules. For 10 points each:
Name these systems whose namesake moment is measured in Debyes [“de-BYEs”]. The field strength far away from one of these systems scales as one-over-r-cubed.
Integrating the electric dipole’s one-over-r-cubed electric field over distance yields a one-over-r-squared dependence for this quantity. In a circuit, this quantity is given by current times resistance according to Ohm’s law.
The energy equations for electric dipoles can be used to prove this theorem, which states that there is no collection of point charges that can be kept in stable equilibrium due solely to their electrostatic forces.
electric dipole (accept magnetic dipole before “Debyes”)
electric potential (accept electric potential difference; accept voltage)
Earnshaw’s theorem &lt;Yue, Physics&gt;
Species whose Latin names contain the same word twice are known as tautonymous. For 10 points each:
Name these large herbivores, whose binomial name is Greek for “wild ox.” The only natural herds of these animals exist in Yellowstone National Park and Alberta.
This name refers to multiple animals native to the North Atlantic Ocean. One species of this mollusk is the longest-lived non-colonial animal, and another has a binomial name from the Latin for “wages.”
These animals can be differentiated from a similar group by their rougher skin and lack of teeth. One subspecies of this animal is the “spiny” variety, while the “horned” one of these animals are actually unrelated.
American bison (prompt on buffalo)
quahog [“CO-HOG”] (accept hard clam or chowder clam; prompt on clam)
common toad &lt;Laskin, Geography&gt;
This type of paraboloid has the general form “Z equals X squared over A squared minus Y squared over B squared.” For 10 points each:
Give this adjective that describes a non-Euclidean geometry with negative curvature. This type of paraboloid, which is also called a saddle, is used to visualize its namesake geometry.
A related geometric surface has the general equation “X squared plus Y squared plus Z squared equals R squared” where R is the radius. This shape is the higher dimensional analog of a circle.
Both hyperbolic paraboloids and spheres are examples of this kind of surface, of which there are five non-degenerate varieties. These surfaces can be thought of as the three-variable analogues of conic sections.
hyperbolic paraboloid
sphere
quadric surfaces &lt;K. Li, Math&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the most famous cycloaddition reaction.
The Diels–Alder reaction produces a ring with this number of atoms. This number is also the number of pi electrons that are transferred during the reaction.
The Diels–Alder reaction most commonly occurs between a diene and this functional group. The carbon–carbon double bond in this functional group normally functions as the HOMO for the reaction.
The second step of R.B. Woodward’s total synthesis of this compound is a Diels–Alder reaction. This lipid is a precursor of many steroid hormones and is the most common sterol in animals.
six
alkene
cholesterol &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
Neutrons in the crust and core of a neutron star are believed to be in this physical state. For 10 points each:
Name this state. Substances in this state have zero viscosity and form Rollin films while creeping out of their containers.
Cooling this element past its lambda point produces a notable superfluid. Solving the Schrödinger equation for this element involves taking the hydrogen solution and adding one to the number of protons and electrons.
Physicist Lev Landau proposed that superfluid helium-4 features these elementary excitations, which form when the superfluid is flowing faster than the speed of sound.
superfluid
helium-4
rotons &lt;Yue, Physics&gt;
Sundews, like many carnivorous plants, consume animals because they grow in habitats lacking this elemental nutrient. For 10 points each:
Name this element which, along with phosphorus and potassium, is found in the most common ternary fertilizers. Some plants acquire this element from bacteria in the genus Rhizobia [“rye-ZOH-bia”].
Sundews capture prey with mucilage [“MEW-sih-ledge”], which also protects these plant structures from dehydration or ingestion by predators. One part of this plant structure develops from the integuments of the ovule.
Mucilage produced by algae in this non-liquid medium is important in stabilizing microaggregates. Pores in this medium are produced by earthworms and provide ventilation for plant roots, which stabilize this medium.
nitrogen
seed (prompt on embryo)
soil &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
The prevalence of drug resistant fungal infections is on the rise with widespread use of common antifungal agents. For 10 points each:
Name this genus of fungi that contains species albicans and auris, and is the most common cause of fungal infections. When this genus of yeast causes oral infections, it is called thrush.
Many species of Candida have become resistant to fluconazole [“flu-CON-azole”], which inhibits growth of this part of the cell. Fluconazole disrupts production of ergosterol, an analog of cholesterol found in this structure.
ABC transporters, which are named for this molecule, are thought to contribute to antifungal resistance in C. auris. ABC transporters generate energy for active transport by hydrolyzing a phosphate from this molecule.
Candida (accept Candida albicans or Candida auris)
cell membrane (or plasma membrane)
ATP (or adenosine triphosphate) &lt;K. Li, Biology; Finals&gt;
This mathematician’s namesake “points” are values for which the Riemann–Siegel theta function achieves nonnegative integer multiples of pi. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematician, whose namesake matrix’s i-j-th entry for a set of n vectors is the inner product of v-i with v-j. With Erhard Schmidt, this mathematician names a technique to generate orthonormal sets of vectors.
The Gram matrix for an orthonormal set of vectors takes this value for each diagonal entry. This is the dot product of the vector “one, zero” with itself.
Since it is equal to its transpose, the Gram matrix has this property. Objects with the rotational variety of this property look the same after they’ve been rotated.
Jørgen Pedersen Gram
one
symmetry (accept word forms) &lt;R. Li, Math; Finals&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the <em>m/z</em> ratio.
Unlike what its name suggests, this technique actually measures the m/z ratio of the samples being analyzed. The tandem form of this technique is used in de novo peptide sequencing.
Along with ESI [“E-S-I”], this ionization technique is often used in de novo peptide sequencing. In this technique, a matrix absorbs the energy from a laser and redirects it to ionize the sample in a gentle manner.
The mass-to-charge ratio of an electron was calculated by this scientist who measured how a cathode ray was deflected by a magnetic field. This scientist’s findings led him to posit the plum pudding model of the atom.
mass spectrometry
MALDI (or matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization)
J. J. Thomson (or Joseph John Thomson) &lt;K. Li, Chemistry; Finals&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about polyketide biosynthesis.
Description acceptable. Many drugs of this type, including tacrolimus and rapamycin, are polyketides. Some of these drugs operate by inhibiting calcineurin and preventing the production of interleukin-2.
This compound is an input to polyketide biosynthesis along with malonyl and propionyl-CoA. This compound is produced by decarboxylation of pyruvate, and it combines with oxaloacetate to form citrate in the Krebs cycle.
Aflatoxins are a class of polyketides which alkylate DNA and promote the development of this disease. Long-term tobacco smoking causes this disease in the lungs.
immunosuppressant (accept answers indicating drugs which suppress/reduce the activity of the immune system or lymphocytes)
acetyl-CoA
cancer &lt;K. Li, Biology; Finals&gt;
The Gross–Pitaevskii equation gives the single-particle wavefunction of substances in this state of matter. For 10 points each:
Name this “fifth state of matter” that was achieved by cooling rubidium-87 atoms to near-absolute-zero temperatures in the early 1990s.
Bose–Einstein condensates follow a namesake statistical distribution contrasted with one named for this scientist and Dirac. This scientist names particles with half-integer spin.
Sweeping a magnetic field through a Bose–Einstein condensate causes a type of this phenomenon named for Feschbach. The surface plasmon variety of this phenomenon forms the basis for a form of Raman spectroscopy.
Bose–Einstein condensates (accept BECs)
Enrico Fermi (accept fermions)
resonance &lt;Yue, Physics; Finals&gt;
Hadamard gates take two of these units as inputs, and they can be visualized on the Bloch sphere. For 10 points each:
Name these small units of information whose states can be superimposed until measurement and entangled in Bell states. Their states may be written in Dirac notation.
The controlled variety of this Boolean gate can be used to construct Bell states. This is the only Boolean operation to take just one input, unlike AND and OR.
This MIT mathematician names a notable quantum computing algorithm that factors integers in polynomial time. If implemented at a large scale, this man’s algorithm could break the RSA cryptography scheme.
qubits (or quantum bits)
NOT (accept negation or word forms)
Peter Shor (or Peter Williston Shor) &lt;Yue, Computer Science; Finals&gt;
This theorem, used to simplify circuit calculations, applies to both DC and AC circuits. For 10 points each:
Name this theorem that states that any combination of batteries and resistors can be reduced to a single voltage source and resistor. This theorem’s counterpart is Norton’s theorem.
Thévenin’s theorem can be more convenient than this man’s two laws for solving circuits. This man’s loop rule states that the sum of voltage drops in a closed loop is zero.
Kirchhoff’s junction rule states the amount of this property entering and exiting a node are equal. This property is measured in amperes, is symbolized by a capital “I,” and is equal to the rate of movement of electric charges.
Thévenin’s theorem
Gustav Robert Kirchhoff [“KEERSH-hof”]
electric current &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Because it can participate in this type of binding, ethylenediamine <strong>[“ETH-il-een-DI-ah-meen”]</strong> has a greater affinity for metals than methylamine <strong>[“METH-il-ah-meen”]</strong>. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which multiple atoms of a molecule coordinate to a metal center.
Ethylenediamine is a bidentate type of these species which form coordination complexes when they bind to metals. These species are ordered in the spectrochemical series.
Two tartrate ligands complex to this metal in Fehling’s solution, which is used to detect aldehydes. This reddish-orange metal turns green when oxidized and exposed to saltwater, as seen in the Statue of Liberty.
chelate effect (or chelation)
ligands
copper (accept Cu) &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
During pumping, the gain medium of these devices absorbs energy, and population inversion occurs in them. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that output beams that are highly collimated near their “waist.”
Spontaneous and stimulated emission in lasers can be described by this scientist’s A and B coefficients. His formula for mass–energy equivalence famously states that “E equals m c-squared.”
Lasers are central to these devices commonly used in atomic physics to manipulate small particles. Arthur Ashkin won the 2018 Nobel Prize in Physics for developing these devices.
lasers
Albert Einstein
optical tweezers (or optical traps; or single-beam gradient force traps) &lt;Yue, Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about biofilms.
The plaque that forms on these structures is a bacterial biofilm that feeds on free sugars. Regular brushing of these structures can keep plaque buildup under control and reduce decay.
It’s not Streptococcus, but bacteria in this genus are commonly found in dental plaque. As its name suggests, this probiotic genus of bacteria ferments sugars to lactic acid, which may lead to cavity formation.
Biofilm bacteria are contrasted with unicellular bacteria in liquid media, which are described by this word. This word also refers to free floating microorganisms which serve as food for larger aquatic organisms.
teeth (accept word forms)
Lactobacillus
planktonic &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about particle detectors.
This device contains supersaturated water or alcohol vapors through which charged particles make tracks. This device was superseded by a similar device named after the bubbles used to visualize the particles in both devices.
This meson was discovered in cosmic rays by Rochester and Butler using a cloud chamber. The decay of this particle provided the first indirect evidence that CP-symmetry could be broken.
Direct evidence of CP-symmetry breaking was confirmed by this European research facility. The existence of the Higgs boson was confirmed in 2012 at the Large Hadron Collider found in this research facility.
cloud chamber
kaon (or K meson)
CERN (or European Organization for Nuclear Research) &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the namesake of the Robinson annulation <strong>[“ANN-nu-lation”]</strong>.
Robert Robinson invented the symbol for this molecule consisting of a hexagon with a circle in the middle. That symbol captures the aromatic nature of this six-carbon molecule.
Robinson is also credited with developing the usage of these things to demonstrate a reaction mechanism. These things depict the movement of electrons to form and break bonds.
Robinson proposed an incorrect tricyclic structure for this drug. John Sheehan performed the first total synthesis of this drug in an early demonstration of DCC peptide coupling.
benzene (or C6H6)
curved arrows (accept curly arrows; accept arrow pushing)
penicillin (or PCN; prompt on beta-lactam antibiotics) &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the work on immune checkpoint inhibitors as cancer therapeutics that won the 2018 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
This protein is expressed on activated immune cells and more broadly regulates immune response compared to CTLA-4. Tumor cells express this receptor’s ligand which allows the cancer to evade the immune system.
Binding of the PD-1 ligand induces this process in antigen-specific T cells. This process is also called Type I cell death and produces characteristic blebbing and cell fragmentation.
The first anti-PD-1 therapeutics were monoclonal antibodies which are produced using cells derived from these lab animals. These small rodents belong to the genus Mus.
PD-1 (or programmed cell death protein 1; prompt on PD-L1 or PD-L2 by asking “what is its receptor?”)
apoptosis (or programmed cell death; prompt on cell death)
mouse (or mice; or Mus musculus; do NOT accept or prompt on “rats”) &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about FRB 121102, a source of repeated electromagnetic pulses.
FRBs are naturally-generated signals in this part of the electromagnetic spectrum. This least energetic part of the spectrum is used to transmit AM and FM signals on earth.
FRBs can be characterized by this quantity, which measures the time delay in detection of lower frequencies of radiation. This quantity arises from the scattering of lower frequency radiation off of charged particles, which effectively slows it down.
The polarization of FRB 121102’s signal indicates that it is coming from near a magnetar or a pulsar, which are both types of these astronomical objects. These objects are supported by a namesake baryonic degeneracy pressure.
radio
dispersion measure
neutron star &lt;K. Li, Astronomy&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the Ann Arbor staging system.
The Ann Arbor system was developed to classify the severity of this group of blood cancers. This type of cancer comes in both Hodgkin’s and non-Hodgkin’s varieties.
Under the Ann Arbor system, the principal stage of cancer is determined by the number and location of tumors with respect to this muscle. Irritation of the phrenic nerve, which innervates this muscle, results in spasmodic contractions of this muscle.
The letter “S” can be appended to the numerical stage of cancer if the cancer has spread to this organ. This organ sequesters old red blood cells because like the kidneys and liver, it is involved in blood filtration.
lymphoma
thoracic diaphragm
spleen &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
The sign convention for this atomic property arises because the process it describes is usually exothermic. For 10 points each:
Name this atomic property which is defined as the energy released when an electron is added to a neutral atom in the gaseous phase.
The electron affinities for these generally unreactive elements are negative, meaning that they cannot form stable anions. These odorless and colorless elements all have a full valence shell.
This quantity, which was developed by Ralph Pearson, is equal to half the difference between ionization energy and electron affinity. Species with a high value for this property tend to be small, charged, and weakly polarizable.
electron affinity (do NOT accept or prompt on “electronegativity”)
noble gases (or inert gases; or group 18 elements)
hardness &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
A theorem named for Stefan Banach asserts that every contraction mapping on a nonempty complete metric space has one of these things. For 10 points each:
Identify these things. Another theorem named for Brouwer states that every continuous function from a compact, convex set to itself has one of these things.
These numbers can be realized as the fixed points of the aliquot sum function. These numbers equal the sum of their positive divisors, excluding themselves.
It is an open question whether any perfect number with this property exists. Any number with this property can be expressed as “two n plus one” for an integer n, and this property is the opposite of even.
fixed point
perfect numbers
odd &lt;R. Li, Math&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the physics of water clocks.
The rate of water flow in a water clock can be described by this law, which describes the velocity of a jet of fluid given the amount of fluid that lies above it. This law is a special case of Bernoulli’s equation.
Torricelli’s law states that the velocity of the fluid is equal to the speed possessed by an object undergoing this type of motion if dropped from the same height. This type of motion can cause the sensation of weightlessness.
Water clocks are only described by Torricelli’s law when this property, which is measured in poise [“pwaz”], can be ignored. This property can be thought of as arising from friction within a fluid as it flows.
Torricelli’s law
free falling
dynamic viscosity &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the bacteria <em>K. xylinus</em>.
The culture used to make this fermented health beverage often includes K. xylinus, which digests the alcohols produced by the yeast. This beverage is made by adding its namesake culture to sugared tea broth.
K. xylinus belong to a group of bacteria which oxidize ethanol to produce this two-carbon carboxylic acid. This weak acid has chemical formula CH­3COOH and is found in vinegar.
K. xylinus is known for its ability to create this most abundant organic polymer. Rayon can be made by dissolving this compound in Schweizer’s reagent and then adding sulfuric acid.
kombucha (prompt on tea mushroom, tea fungus, or Manchurian mushroom, which are names for the culture)
acetic acid (or ethanoic acid)
cellulose &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
This process is used when preparing biological samples for transmission electron microscopy. For 10 points each:
Name this process which can be accomplished with formalin or glutaraldehyde. During Gram staining, heat accomplishes this process which aims to preserve and stabilize the internal structure of biological samples.
Aldehydes “fix” a biological specimen by cross-linking these macromolecules. These macromolecules are synthesized during translation and form the major internal structural components of all cells.
Following fixing, samples must be stained with electron-dense substances such as the acetate or formate salt of this radioactive metal.
fixing
proteins
uranium (prompt on uranyl) &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
This constant was one of four to have its numerical value defined exactly in the SI base unit revision that went into effect in 2019. For 10 points each:
Name this constant that became the new basis for the kelvin in the 2019 revision. This constant has the same dimensions as entropy and is multiplied by temperature in the formula for thermodynamic beta.
The kelvin used to be based on the temperature of this substance’s triple point. The solid state of this substance floats, which is why aquatic life is not crushed when this substance solidifies.
The Boltzmann constant is multiplied by this function of the number of microstates to find a gas’s entropy. When applied to Euler’s [“OY-lur’s”] number, this function returns one.
Boltzmann constant (or Boltzmann’s constant; prompt on kB)
water (or H2O)
natural logarithm (or ln) &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Peaks in this technique are reported in terms of their wave number. For 10 points each:
Name this technique used to detect vibrational modes which have a change in dipole moment. This technique is named for a region of the electromagnetic spectrum found above the microwave region.
Identical diatomic molecules whose atoms have this relationship to each other will have different vibrational frequencies. This term refers to atoms with the same number of protons but different number of neutrons.
The Tolman electronic parameter is determined by measuring the change in the vibrational frequency of this molecule. The dipole moment of this diatomic molecule points towards the less electronegative element.
infrared spectroscopy (accept IR spectroscopy; prompt on IR or infrared)
isotopes
carbon monoxide (accept CO; accept carbonyl ligand) &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
The Friedmann equations relate this cosmological parameter to density parameters and the scale factor. For 10 points each:
Give this cosmological parameter, which is squared in the formula for critical density. This parameter is the normalized time derivative of the scale factor and represents the rate of expansion of the universe.
The largest of the density parameters corresponds to this concept, which is hypothesized to cause the expansion of the universe to accelerate. The cosmological constant is one proposed form of this invisible concept.
The second largest of the density parameters corresponds to this concept, which is mostly caused by dark matter in the universe. This intrinsic property is divided by volume to find the most common type of density.
Hubble parameter (or Hubble constant; accept Hubble’s parameter or constant)
dark energy (do NOT accept or prompt on “dark matter”)
mass &lt;K. Li, Astronomy&gt;
The wavelengths of these waves are unit fraction multiples of the fundamental wavelength. For 10 points each:
Name this series of waves whose members contain an increasing number of nodes. The first member in this series is called the fundamental tone, and each following member is an overtone.
The density wave theory was posited to explain the winding problem within the arms of these large astronomical objects. The Milky Way is a barred spiral type of these astronomical objects.
The wave equation states that this differential operator of a function is linearly related to the function’s second time derivative. This operator is represented by a nabla squared and is equal to the divergence of the gradient.
harmonic series
spiral galaxy
Laplacian (or Laplace operator) &lt;K. Li, Other Science&gt;
This feature is relatively young, having been formed during the catastrophic Hesperian Period. For 10 points each:
Name this shield volcano with a height of over 20 kilometers. This mountain is the tallest in the Solar System.
Olympus Mons is tall enough that it stands above the dust storms on this planet. Giovanni Schiaparelli [“skeeah-pah-REH-lee”] erroneously believed there were canals on this red planet, the fourth from the sun.
Several moons, including Titan and Ganymede, feature this type of volcano that erupts volatiles like water, ammonia, and methane, instead of molten rock.
Olympus Mons (or Mount Olympus)
Mars
cryovolcanoes (or ice volcanoes) &lt;Duffy, Astronomy&gt;
Large cosmic masses can act as “gravitational” examples of these objects to create Einstein rings. For 10 points each:
Name these objects whose power can be computed in terms of radii of curvature by a formula named for a “maker” of them. These objects use refraction to focus light to a single point, and are often contrasted with mirrors.
A lens failing to focus all colors at one point is evidence of this specific phenomenon, which is contrasted with a “spherical” variety of the same general phenomenon.
Chromatic aberration is caused by this optical phenomenon, in which different wavelengths refract at different angles.
lens
chromatic aberration (prompt on aberration)
dispersion &lt;Yue, Physics&gt;
The PUREX method, which is based on liquid–liquid extraction, is named after two important elements in this non-weaponry industry. For 10 points each:
Name this industry which uses PUREX to recover unused fuel from its waste. This industry produces low amounts of greenhouse gases but is considered nonrenewable.
The organic solvent in the PUREX process contains the tributyl [“tri-BUTE-il”] derivative of this polyatomic ion. Three instances of this ion are found in ATP.
The aqueous solvent in the PUREX process is a seven-molar solution of this oxidizing mineral acid. This strong acid is commercially produced by the Ostwald process.
nuclear power (accept nuclear energy or equivalents)
phosphate
nitric acid &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
In one linear regression model, the population parameters minimize a loss function named for this operation. For 10 points each:
Identify this operation. The sample estimators in that aforementioned model are calculated by minimizing the sum of this operation on residuals.
Along with Slutsky’s theorem, this result can be used to show that the least-squares estimator is consistent. The “weak” form of this result asserts that the sample mean converges in probability to the population mean.
The central limit theorem implies that sample mean minus population mean, scaled by the square root of sample size, converges to one of these distributions. The 68–95–99.7 rule applies to this distribution.
square (accept least-squares regression)
law of large numbers (or LLN)
normal distribution (or Gaussian distribution; prompt on bell curve) &lt;R. Li, Math&gt;
Post-translational modification of proteins, which involves covalent addition of various functional groups, extends the versatility of the standard amino acids. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds which are added to surface proteins in red blood cells to produce the ABO blood types. The process of adding these compounds to proteins is called glycosylation.
O-linked glycosylation attaches a sugar to this amino acid which, with threonine, names a class of protein kinases. With histidine and aspartate, this amino acid is found in a catalytic triad in a namesake class of proteases.
O-GlcNAc [“OH-GLIK-NAK”] transferase is found in the mitochondria and this part of the cell. This part of the cell contains all organelles except the nucleus.
sugars (accept carbohydrates; accept saccharides with or without the prefixes mono-, di-, oligo-, or poly-)
serine (prompt on ser; prompt on S)
cytoplasm &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
This scientist devised a namesake radius to better portray atoms and molecules. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist who imagined atoms as hard spheres rather than points. He also names a set of intermolecular forces that are weaker than covalent bonds.
Van der Waals defined his namesake radius when investigating the non-ideality of this state of matter. His eponymous equation of state improves upon a law named for the ideal form of this state of matter.
The van der Waals equation of state falls into this larger class of equations. These equations of state are named for the fact that they can be rewritten as the namesake type of polynomial with respect to molar volume.
Johannes van der Waals (or Johannes Diderik van der Waals)
gases (accept ideal gases)
cubic equation of state &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about septic shock.
The defining characteristic of septic shock is this physiological state along with sepsis. This physiological state can be caused by the widening of blood vessels.
This biological process, which can be mediated by TNFα [“T-N-F-alpha”], causes many of the symptoms of septic shock. This process, which is characterized by redness and swelling, can be treated with NSAIDs [“N-SEDS”] like ibuprofen.
This Gram-positive genus of bacteria, a species of which produces clumping factor, is a major cause of sepsis. The coagulase test is used to differentiate different species within this genus.
hypotension (or low blood pressure; do NOT accept or prompt on “hypertension”)
inflammation
Staphylococcus (accept Staphylococcus aureus) &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
E-waste accumulation is fueled by the fast pace at which technology and media types advance. For 10 points each:
Name this device that used to be found in television displays. This device was used to demonstrate the existence of electrons, which are produced at the namesake electrode of the device.
An element found in e-waste is the selenide of this element, which could be found in early quantum dot displays. This heavy metal is found in rechargeable batteries along with nickel.
Cadmium toxicity is partially caused by the generation of this reactive oxygen species, which is decomposed by catalase. This compound, which can be used to clean wounds, is stored in brown bottles.
cathode ray tube (or CRT; prompt on vacuum tube; prompt on cathode)
cadmium (or Cd)
hydrogen peroxide (accept H2O2) &lt;K. Li, Other Science&gt;
The first chemical method for synthesizing indigo dye was the Baeyer–Drewson synthesis. For 10 points each:
The first step of that synthesis is this type of reaction. In this reaction, an enol [“EEN-ole”] reacts with an aldehyde to form the namesake product.
Most organic molecules appear colorless because they cannot absorb visible light. However, the indigo analog thioindigo [“THY-oh-indigo”] appears this color because it absorbs yellow light strongly.
Indigo is being researched for use as an organic semiconductor in this renewable energy technology. The inorganic variety of this technology is composed of crystalline photovoltaic silicon panels.
aldol reaction (or aldol condensation)
violet (accept purple)
solar energy (accept solar cells or solar panels or any answers that indicate energy derived from the sun) &lt;K. Li, Chemistry; Finals&gt;
The 21-centimeter one of these things is observed in radio astronomy and corresponds to hyperfine transitions in hydrogen. For 10 points each:
Name these things that can be broadened due to pressure and thermal Doppler effects. Two of these known as D1 and D2 in the Fraunhofer series are also known as the sodium doublet.
The Stark effect splits spectral lines when there exists a non-zero value for this quantity. This quantity is crossed with the B-field in the Poynting vector, and it is multiplied by charge in the Lorentz force law.
The electric field can be written in terms of a choice of scalar and vector potentials after “fixing” one of these constructs, which include ones named for Coulomb and Lorenz. Particles named after these constructs are carrier particles for all fundamental forces except gravity.
spectral lines
electric field (accept E-field; prompt on E alone)
gauges (prompt on bosons; accept gauge bosons) &lt;Yue, Physics; Finals&gt;
Using the “Fibonacci” variety of these data structures gives amortized constant time for insertion and decrease-keys. For 10 points each:
Name these data structures with “max” and “min” types. Its “binary” variety can be implemented with a binary tree with nodes ordered to satisfy this data structure’s namesake property.
A heap can be used to implement the “priority” variety of these data structures, which are often contrasted with stacks. These structures’ first-in, first-out behavior can be analogized to waiting in a long line.
Binary heaps feature this big-O runtime for delete, insert, and decrease-key operations. This big-O runtime is typical for operations on binary trees. Give your answer as a mathematical function of n.
heap
queue
big O of log n (accept any answer involving the logarithm of n) &lt;Yue, Computer Science&gt;
For 10 points each, answer questions about substance P, a member of the tachykinin <strong>[“TAH-kee-KYE-nin”]</strong> family.
Substance P is a peptide example of these compounds as are orexins and beta-endorphin. These endogenous chemicals are the subject of Dale’s principle.
Substance P is important in the perception of this distressing sensation. This sensation can be managed with acetaminophen and opioids.
Like pain, this sensation, which is sensed through puritive nociceptors, can be mediated through substance P, though it is more commonly induced by histamine. Topical hydrocortisone creams can control this sensation.
neurotransmitter (accept neuropeptide; prompt on hormone; prompt on peptide)
pain (accept nociception, nocioception, or nociperception)
itching &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about colloids.
Colloids are often contrasted with this other type of homogeneous mixture. These mixtures can be unsaturated, saturated, or supersaturated based on the amount of solute dissolved in the solvent.
These colloids consist of liquid droplets dispersed within gas. CFCs were used as propellants for making these colloids.
This type of scattering that is more general than Rayleigh and Tyndall scattering explains how aerosols reduce visibility in urban areas. Mathematically, this type of scattering assumes that colloidal particles are spherical.
solutions
aerosols
Mie [“mee”] scattering &lt;Yue, Chemistry&gt;
In addition to his three laws of motion, Newton also discovered a universal law of this fundamental force. For 10 points each:
Name this force that is directly proportional to the masses of two interacting bodies. Apocryphally, Newton discovered his law describing this force when an apple fell from a tree onto his head.
Newton’s shell theorem states that a spherically symmetric body behaves like one of these particles at the center of the body. These idealized particles are zero-dimensional, and a line is composed of an infinite amount of them.
No calculations required. As a consequence of the shell theorem, the gravitational attraction of a uniform sphere with radius R is greatest at this distance from its center. Give your answer in terms of R. You have 10 seconds.
gravity (accept equivalents such as gravitational attraction)
point mass (or point particle)
1R (accept the surface of the sphere) &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the discovery of different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum.
Ultraviolet light was discovered by Johann Ritter when he observed invisible rays acting upon the silver salt of this element. This element is found along with sodium in table salt.
This scientist discovered infrared radiation when he observed a thermometer being heated by rays beyond the red end of the spectrum. This scientist was one of the first to incorporate spectroscopy into astronomy.
The first radio waves were produced by this scientist who also discovered the photoelectric effect. This scientist names the SI unit of frequency.
chlorine (accept Cl)
William Herschel
Heinrich Hertz &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Organolithium reagents can be pyrophoric because they are the “strong” type of these compounds. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds which are used to deprotonate acids. These compounds are characterized by a high pKa.
Organolithium reagents can also function as these species due to the polarity of the carbon–lithium bond. These species are named for their affinity for the positively-charged center of an atom and are contrasted with electrophiles.
Unlike organolithium reagents, these compounds can perform conjugate nucleophilic addition. These copper containing compounds are prepared by reacting two equivalents of an organolithium reagent with a copper(I) salt.
base
nucleophiles
Gilman reagent &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
These rocks make up nearly three quarters of the Earth’s land surface. For 10 points each:
Name this class of rocks that forms from the accumulation and cementation of minerals, biological matter, and broken down bits of other rocks.
This most common sedimentary rock is often found between facies [“FAY–shees”] of sandstone and limestone on coasts. Natural gas deposits in this fissile rock have made it a popular target of fracking in the Midwest.
With increasing heat and pressure, shale metamorphoses into slate, phyllite [“FYE–lite”], and then this medium-grade metamorphic rock. This rock is usually primarily composed of mica [“micah”] crystals and often contains deposits of garnet.
sedimentary rocks
shale
schist [“shist”] &lt;Duffy, Earth Science&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about particle physicist and Nobel laureate Murray Gell-Mann.
Gell-Mann coined this term for the elementary particles which are subject to all of the fundamental forces. Three of these particles combine to form baryons like protons.
One of Gell-Mann’s many discoveries was this flavor of the third lightest of all quarks. Particles which can be connected by a horizontal line in the eightfold way have the same value for this flavor.
With Nishijima, Gell-Mann names a formula for determining this physical property of particles. This property is defined based on the proton and the electron which carry equal and opposite magnitudes of this property.
quarks
strangeness (prompt on S)
electric charge (prompt on Q) &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Like taste, this sense is mediated by chemoreception. For 10 points each:
Name this sense that is transmitted directly to the cerebrum by the first cranial nerve, which bypasses the thalamus. This sense involves the antennae in arthropods and the nose in vertebrates.
When an odorant reaches an olfactory receptor, Golf [“golf”], which is a member of this family of proteins, hydrolyzes GTP. Proteins in this family are often coupled to a namesake class of receptors.
Activation of Golf leads to the production of cAMP and influx of this cation [“CAT–eye–on”] and sodium ions. In muscle cells, this cation is stored in the sarcoplasmic reticulum.
olfaction (or smell; accept word forms)
heterotrimeric G protein (accept guanine nucleotide-binding protein; accept GTPase; prompt on GPCR)
calcium ion (or Ca2+) &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
This experiment showed that bacteria were subject to natural selection. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment in which the two namesake scientists observed that experimental replicates varied as to how many bacteria developed resistance to bacteriophages. This experiment showed that mutations developed in the absence of selective force.
The selective force in the Luria–Delbrück experiment, the T1 phage, was contained in agar in one of these shallow cylindrical containers.
The T1 phage replicates exclusively through this mechanism. Viral genetic material is not integrated into host DNA during this type of replication which is contrasted with the lysogenic cycle.
Luria–Delbrück experiment (prompt on just Luria or Delbrück)
Petri dish
lytic cycle (accept lysis) &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
The behavior of this thermodynamic cycle forms a rectangle on a TS diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this thermodynamic cycle in which there is no net generation of entropy. This thermodynamic cycle sets the upper limit on the efficiency of a thermodynamic engine.
The two vertical lines on the TS diagram of the Carnot cycle represent thermodynamic processes described by this word. This type of process is both reversible and adiabatic.
The efficiency of a Carnot cycle is equal to one minus the ratio of two values for this thermodynamic quantity. The SI unit for this quantity is the kelvin.
Carnot [“car–NO”] cycle (or Carnot engine)
isentropic
absolute temperature &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about harmonic oscillators.
Harmonic oscillators are defined as obeying a potential described by this term. Any smooth potential with a minimum can be Taylor approximated into a function of this type, which takes the shape of a parabola.
While the restorative force in a simple harmonic oscillator is proportional to displacement, frictional damping forces, such as air resistance, are often modeled as proportional to this vector quantity.
Wavefunctions of the 1D quantum harmonic oscillator can be determined by applying these operators to a known energy eigenstate. These operators are also known as raising and lowering operators.
quadratic
velocity (prompt on v)
ladder operators (accept creation AND annihilation operators) &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Given an M/D/1 <strong>[“M-D-one”]</strong> queue with utilization less than one, the number of people served during a “busy period” is characterized by this mathematician’s namesake distribution. For 10 points each:
Name this French mathematician. He co-names a theorem with Eduard Heine stating that a subset of Euclidean space is compact if and only if it is closed and bounded.
The Borel algebra on a topological space X is the smallest algebra named for this Greek letter that contains all open subsets of X. This Greek letter squared is commonly used to denote variance.
If a random variable is always equal to a constant, its variance has this value. The probability that a continuous random variable is equal to any particular real number is given by this value, the smallest possible probability.
Émile Borel (or Félix Édouard Justin Émile Borel)
sigma
zero &lt;R. Li, Math&gt;
The slew rate of these devices is the rate at which the output voltage changes. For 10 points each:
Name these devices whose operational variety outputs a voltage much larger than the difference between the input voltages. The strength of these devices is measured by their gain.
Amplifiers commonly use this type of feedback in order to control the output of the device. In this type of feedback, the output tends to prevent the device from producing more output.
Slew rate can also refer to how fast these devices can rotate to a different point in the sky. These instruments can be based on the Earth like the Keck in Hawaii or in space like the Hubble.
amplifier
negative feedback
telescope &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about Faraday’s law of induction.
Induction refers to the electromotive force induced by a change in flux of this vector field paired with the electric field. Permanent types of this field are produced by horseshoe and bar varieties of a namesake object.
A changing magnetic flux produces this phenomenon in two- and three-dimensional conductors. This phenomenon consists of closed loops of current which produce a magnetic field opposing the change in flux.
To determine the direction in which eddy currents will circulate, one can use this rule named after a body part. To use the rule, the thumb should be pointed in the opposite direction of the change in magnetic flux.
magnetic field (accept B-field)
eddy current
right-hand rule &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Chiral compounds are characterized by their optical activity. For 10 points each:
Name this device which measures the angle of rotation caused by passing monochromatic light through an optically active substance.
The D1 Fraunhofer line of this element defines the wavelength of light most commonly used in polarimeters. This alkali metal gives off a bright yellow-orange in a flame test.
Racemic [“ray-SEE-mick”] mixtures are optically inactive, meaning that a polarimeter will give this value for their optical rotation. This value is the arithmetic mean of the specific rotation of a pair of enantiomers, which are equal and opposite.
polarimeter (prompt on polarimetry)
sodium (or natrium; accept Na)
zero &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
Environmental Sensitivity Index mapping is used to identify areas sensitive to these events. For 10 points each:
Name these uncontrolled releases of liquid petroleum, exemplified by the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster.
Damage from oil spills and other pollution can be mitigated by this process, in which the environment is altered to stimulate the growth of microorganisms that can break down pollutants.
These natural items can be used to absorb and remove crude oil from water. In Silent Spring, Rachel Carson described how the pesticide DDT was making these objects thinner, which led to declines in some bird populations.
oil spills (accept reasonably equivalent descriptive answers)
bioremediation
egg shells (prompt on shells; prompt on just eggs by asking “Which part of the egg?”) &lt;Duffy, Earth Science&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the SCORTEN <strong>[“SCORE–TEN”]</strong> scale which measures the severity of skin damage.
SCORTEN was developed for a skin condition that causes widespread cell death through this process. When untreated, this form of cell death results in the buildup of dead tissue which can become infected.
The sulfonamide and beta-lactam classes of this type of drug have been implicated in toxic epidermal necrolysis, or TEN. These drugs are normally prescribed to treat bacterial infections.
Cell death in patients with TEN is caused by overstimulation of this type of T cell which, like natural killer cells, attacks cells that identify as self. Unlike helper and regulatory T cells, these lymphocytes recognize MHC class I molecules.
necrosis
antibiotics (prompt on antimicrobials)
cytotoxic T cell (or CD8+ [“CD8-positive”] T cell; or killer T cell; or cytolytic T cell) &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
This mathematician’s namesake “cosmological theorem” states that all strings in the “look-and-say” sequence eventually decay to a combination of “common” and “transuranic” elements. For 10 points each:
Name this prolific English mathematician. Patterns such as “blinkers” and “gliders” often arise in his namesake cellular automaton, “Game of Life.”
Conway also lends his name to a notation that “chains” these symbols together to express very large numbers. A “double-headed” one of these symbols is used to signify “if and only if.”
Conway’s “moonshine theory” describes the relationship between modular functions and the monster [one of these objects]. These objects’ namesake operation must satisfy closure and associativity properties, and they must have an identity element as well as inverse elements.
John Horton Conway
arrows
groups &lt;R. Li, Math&gt;
The pentoxide of this element is a potent dehydrator used in organic chemistry. For 10 points each:
Name this element which carries the positive charge in a ylide [“IL-lid”] formed in the Wittig [“VITTIG”] reaction. While the white allotrope of this element is self-igniting, the red allotrope is not.
Phosphorus pentoxide dehydrates this functional group to form nitriles. This functional group has an important resonance structure in which the lone pair on nitrogen forms a partial double bond with the carbonyl carbon.
The phosphorus-containing compound hydroxyapatite comprises a majority of this organ. Malnutrition as well as menopause causes the density of this structural organ to decrease.
phosphorus (accept P)
amide
bones &lt;K. Li, Chemistry&gt;
Stephen Gould likened this theory of evolutionary biology to a rolling polyhedron. For 10 points each:
Name this theory which arose from Ernst Mayr’s idea of genetic revolutions and the founder effect. This theory states that the lack of transitional species in the fossil record is caused by species being in a state of stasis.
Under punctuated equilibrium, this process occurs exclusively through cladogenesis rather than anagenesis. When this process occurs due to geographic separation, it is the allopatric type of this process.
Gould pioneered the use of this term to refer to phenotypes such as umbilical brooding in snails. This architectural term refers to traits which arose as a byproduct of evolution rather than as an adaptation.
punctuated equilibrium
speciation
spandrel &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
This type of fluid motion is difficult to model due to its immense complexity. For 10 points each:
Name this type of flow which is characterized by chaos and unstable vortices caused by the kinetic energy of a fluid overcoming the damping force. This type of flow can cause a bumpy flight experience.
It’s not laminar, but when the Reynolds number is extremely low, this type of flow occurs. The equations of motion for this type of flow are generated by linearizing equations named for Navier and this scientist
Boundary layers, which were identified by this scientist, break down more quickly when they are laminar. This scientist’s namesake number is the ratio of kinematic viscosity to thermal diffusivity.
turbulent flow (accept turbulence)
Stokes flow
Ludwig Prandtl &lt;K. Li, Physics&gt;
Alternation of generations refers to points in the life cycle of plants in which cells alternate the number of these pieces of DNA. For 10 points each:
Name these DNA molecules that are twice as plentiful in diploid cells. When condensed, these molecules are visible as X-shaped molecules joined at the centromere.
This haploid phase is the most prevalent stage in bryophytes. This phase develops from haploid spores, which are produced by the sporophyte, and is the sexual phase of the plant life cycle.
In seed plants, this substance is produced in microsporangia and contains a generative cell called the antheridium. A tube named after this substance extends through the style following implantation of this substance on the stigma.
chromosomes
gametophyte
pollen &lt;K. Li, Biology&gt;
Included in the definition of these constructs are a set of alphabet symbols, an initial state, a set of final states, and a transition function. For 10 points each:
Name these abstract devices, whose halting behavior on any input cannot be generally predicted, according to their namesake.
A thesis named for this computer scientist and Turing roughly states that a function is generally computable if and only if it is computable by a Turing machine. This man is also known for inventing the lambda calculus.
A Turing machine is fed an infinite-length tape of this resource. Unlike Turing machines, most computers use the “random access” variety of this resource.
Turing machines
Alonzo Church
memory &lt;Yue, Computer Science&gt;
Edward Jenner first tested the theory behind these preparations using a milkmaid’s cowpox sore. For 10 points:
Name these preparations whose modern versions include DTaP, MMR, and Gardasil, which are designed to inoculate against various diseases.
This effect shields the immunosuppressed and unvaccinated from infection, but it’s only attainable if a certain proportion of the population is vaccinated; for measles, that percentage is somewhere from 92–95%.
Vaccines usually deliver bits of toxins, inactivated pathogens, or live pathogens. Live pathogens are delivered in this state, in which they’re weakened by being cultured in eggs or other environments that make them harmless.
vaccines
herd immunity [prompt on herd effect, social immunity, or population immunity]
attenuated &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about polysaccharides found in plants:
In plants, glucose is mainly stockpiled in this generically-named polysaccharide that’s found in staple grains like wheat and rice. Humans eat most of their carbohydrates in this form.
Starch actually comprises two distinct types of polysaccharides, which are differentiated by the amount of branching in their structures. Name both.
The enzyme amylase, which breaks down starches, is found in this substance, which is produced in the parotid and submandibular glands.
starches
amylose AND amylopectin [accept in either order]
saliva &lt;JW&gt;
This civilization’s centers included Palenque and Chichen Itza. For 10 points each:
Name this civilization that lasted for thousands of years in modern Guatemala and the Yucatán peninsula. They were the only Mesoamericans to use hieroglyphics, and they were probably the earliest people to use the number 0.
The Mayans notated numerals with this relatively large number as the base. The base for Babylonian numerals was three times this number, a usage that persists to this day in contexts that were once relevant to astronomy.
Like many Mesoamerican civilizations, the Maya made ritual use of this sport designated by a generic English name.
Mayan civilization
base-20 [or vigesimal] (Base-60 counting is still used when measuring angles and time.)
ballgame &lt;MK&gt;
The “ring” type of this property occurs when molecules have abnormal bond angles. For 10 points each:
Name this raising of the energy of a molecule due to its structure. Resistance to twisting is known as the Pitzer or “torsional” type of this property.
Kenneth Pitzer also introduced the “acentric factor,” which quantifies how far a molecule is deformed from a perfect example of this shape. s orbitals adopt this shape.
Pitzer is best-known for his papers on the thermodynamics of these solutes that make water conduct electricity. These substances, which include salts, must be replenished along with water after losing fluids in physical activity.
strain
spheres [accept word forms]
electrolytes &lt;AF&gt;
This feature lies between a similarly-named “margin” and “slope” or “rise.” For 10 points each:
Name this kind of region that’s much higher than the adjacent abyssal plain.
Continental shelves often feature the submarine variety of these gouges, which rivers cut into a bed of rock. If they’re steep enough, they’re called gorges.
The undersea “rivers” that carve out submarine canyons are these flows of fast-moving, dense water loaded up with sediment. These flows form abyssal fans.
continental shelf [prompt on partial answer]
submarine canyons
turbidity currents [prompt on partial answer] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the biology of bees:
Bees secrete these chemicals to alert other bees to threats or the presence of food. In general, this is the name for a chemical used by insects or other organisms to communicate.
Bees may also share information by doing a characteristic figure-eight movement. That movement is given this whimsical name.
In the process of pollination, bees gather pollen from these “male” organs of a flower, which contain the anther and combine to form the androecium.
pheromones
waggle dance [prompt on partial answer]
stamens [or stamina] &lt;JW&gt;
The Bancroft point is the temperature at which these mixtures arise. For 10 points each:
Name these mixtures that can’t be separated by distillation. “Negative” examples of them have higher boiling points than their components.
A common azeotrope is a mixture of 95.63% ethanol and 4.37% this compound. This liquid, which becomes less dense when it freezes, is a “universal” solvent due to its highly electronegative central oxygen.
These compounds are used to break azeotropes, usually by affecting the volatility of only some of the mixture’s components. For the ethanol-water azeotrope, benzene and cyclohexane are commonly used as these compounds.
azeotropes
water [or H2O]
entrainers &lt;AF&gt;
The “selective” ability to mobilize this faculty is usually hindered by the Stroop effect. For 10 points each:
Name this cognitive faculty that is mobilized with difficulty in individuals with ADD.
Executive control of attention has been hypothesized to occur via a neural “stream” identified by this term, which is contrasted with “ventral.” In humans, its meaning is similar to “posterior.”
Trauma-induced inabilities to control attention have been linked to lesions of the “junction” between these two lobes of the brain. One of these lobes contains the main “touch” cortex, while the other contains the auditory cortex.
attention [accept attention deficit disorder]
dorsal
temporal lobe AND parietal lobe [accept temporoparietal junction; prompt on TPJ] &lt;JR&gt;
The Biot–Savart law can be used to calculate a stationary electric current’s contribution to this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field denoted with a capital B, of which a permanent example points from the north to the south pole of many iron bars.
The magnetic field due to a straight or circular wire can be easily calculated using this law, which relates the integral of a magnetic field around a closed loop to the current passing through that loop.
James Clerk Maxwell corrected the differential form of Ampere’s law by adding the displacement current term, in which this operation is applied to the electric field.
magnetic field
Ampère’s law [or Ampère’s circuital law]
time derivative [or derivative with respect to time; prompt on derivative] &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the many uses of potassium:
18-crown-6, an organic molecule with a strong affinity for potassium cations, is an example of these molecules, which have two alkyl groups connected by an oxygen. These compounds are formed in the Williamson synthesis.
Ratios of radioactive potassium to argon are measured in one form of this technique. The most common form of this technique uses carbon-14, which stops being useful for materials older than about 50,000 years.
The potassium isotope used in radiometric dating has this mass number.
ethers [accept crown ethers]
radiometric dating [accept radioactive dating or radiocarbon dating]
potassium-40 &lt;AF&gt;
Sidney Farber developed the early chemotherapy drug aminopterin to treat one form of this this disease. For 10 points each:
Name this cancer of the bone marrow that’s not lymphoma. It has lymphocytic and myelogenous forms.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia is often caused by the Bcr/Abl mutation, which affects a kinase. Kinases attach this ion, which forms the hydrophilic head of a namesake kind of molecule in the cell membrane.
The Bcr/Abl mutation affects a kinase which attaches phosphate to tyrosine residues. This is the sidechain of tyrosine.
leukemia
phosphates [accept P-O-4 3-minus; accept phospholipids]
phenol &lt;HK&gt;
Like garnet, this industrial mineral is frequently used as an abrasive. For 10 points each:
Name this aluminum oxide mineral, which has a Mohs hardness second only to diamond.
While non-red corundum gems are called sapphires, red gemstones made of corundum are given this name. These gems were used as the gain medium in the first laser.
Rubies get their red color from the presence of this metal. This element’s oxyanion tends to dimerize to make a strongly oxidizing anion with 2 atoms of it and 7 atoms of oxygen.
corundum
rubies
chromium [or Cr; accept dichromate] &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about forces at play in circular motion:
The fictitious Coriolis and centrifugal forces appear in rotating reference frames since they are not frames of this type. In general, this term describes the tendency of a body in motion to remain in motion.
While the Coriolis and centrifugal forces are fictitious, this is the actual force that keeps bodies in circular motion. It always points towards the center of curvature.
For a particle of mass M moving at a uniform speed V in a circle of radius R, what is the magnitude of the centripetal force?
inertial frame [accept inertia]
centripetal force
M times V-squared over R [or M V-squared over R; accept answer with “divided by” in place of “over”] &lt;SE&gt;
This rule is “undone” via integration by parts. For 10 points each:
Name this formula that gives a common species of derivative as “f-prime g, plus f g-prime.”
The product rule was discovered by this German mathematician and philosopher, who also developed the rest of calculus independently of Newton. This man invented the notation “dy-dx.”
You’ll have 10 seconds for this bonus part. Using integration by parts, give the integral of “x e to the x”; since the derivative of x is 1, it’s probably wise to choose “x” to be your “u.”
product rule
Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz
[or “x times e-to-the-x, minus e-to-the-x”; accept answers that include “plus C” at the end] &lt;JR&gt;
Systems with this property, such as the double pendulum, usually have a positive Lyapunov exponent. For 10 points each:
Name this property of some dynamical systems, whose dependence on small perturbations is sometimes called the “butterfly effect.”
Chaotic systems are very sensitive to the choices described by this two-word term. For a mass on a spring, two of these choices, one for position and one for velocity, specify the motion of the system.
Chaotic trajectories often do not have this property of returning to their original position after a fixed time. The sine and cosine functions have this property, since they are unchanged when shifted by 2 pi.
chaos [or chaotic systems]
initial conditions [prompt on partial answer]
periodicity [accept period] &lt;SE&gt;
René-Just Haüy [aow-EE] codified the fact that these solids always cleave along the same angle. For 10 points each.
Name these highly regular solids composed of a repeating lattice. They’re contrasted with amorphous solids.
The structure of a crystal lattice is modelled as a repeating series of these components. For cubic systems, this smallest basic component may be “simple,” “face-centered,” or “body-centered.”
Crystal structures can be studied with X-ray crystallography, using Bragg’s law. In Bragg’s law, interference peaks arise when a multiple of the wavelength equals what quantity times the sine of the incident angle theta?
crystals
unit cells [or primitive cell; or primitive unit cell; prompt on partial answer]
2d [or 2 times the distance between the planes] &lt;JR&gt;
Cheeses of this type include Gorgonzola, Stilton, and Roquefort. For 10 points each:
Name this often smelly kind of cheese sporting “veins” of its namesake colorful mold.
Roquefort, like feta and ricotta, is made from this kind of milk.
Roquefort has high levels of this compound, which gives both butter and vomit their smell. This compound is thought to be added to Hershey chocolate, which originally masked the initial stages of spoilage.
blue cheese
sheep’s milk [do not accept or prompt on “goat’s milk”]
butyric acid [or butyrate; or butanoic acid; or butanoate] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about anthropogenic, or human-induced climate change:
A large portion of anthropogenic climate change is due to increasing concentrations of this common greenhouse gas in the atmosphere. This gas is released by the combustion of fossil fuels.
This potential strategy for combating global warming involves removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by capturing it and storing it elsewhere.
Although anthropogenic climate change is more sudden, climate change also occurs naturally due to variation in the Earth’s orbit, roughly following these very long-term cycles named for a Serbian geophysicist.
carbon dioxide [or CO2]
carbon sequestration [prompt on geoengineering]
Milankovitch cycles &lt;JW&gt;
This analytical technique only determines a compound’s empirical formula, not its molecular formula. For 10 points each:
Name this type of analysis, which infers the chemical formula of a carbohydrate from the number of moles of carbon dioxide and water it produces upon reacting with excess oxygen. A description is fine.
Since the oxygen in combustion analysis is provided in excess, the carbohydrate to be analyzed is this type of reagent, whose amount controls the total yield of the reaction.
Limiting reagents are important in this basic subfield of chemistry, which makes use of balanced chemical equations to predict the total amount of products that will result from a particular reaction.
combustion analysis [accept answers that describe burning the sample; do not accept or prompt on “flame test”]
limiting reagent [or limiting reactant]
stoichiometry &lt;SE&gt;
This technique can yield an “indeterminate” result, especially for organisms like the tuberculosis bacterium<em>.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this technique named for a Danish scientist, which classifies bacteria as “negative” or “positive” based on how well they retain crystal violet dye.
The cell walls of Gram-positive bacteria contain large amounts of peptidoglycan, which is made up of two compounds: a glucose derivative and an acid. For 5 points each, name both compounds.
Many Gram-positive bacteria fall into this general category of roughly spherical bacteria. As its full name suggests, strep throat is caused by a bacterium of this shape.
Gram staining [prompt on just staining]
N-acetylglucosamine [or NAG or GlcNAc]  N-acetylmuramic acid [or NAM or MurNAc]
cocci [or coccus; accept coccal; accept Streptococcus] &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following questions about farads:
Farads are the SI unit used to measure the strength of what circuit components? They store electrical energy by placing opposite charges on a pair of separated plates.
The farad is far too large a unit for practical use. The strength of most everyday capacitors is instead reported in terms of what smaller unit, which is denoted “mu-F”?
Capacitors are often combined with resistors in RC circuits, in which the product of capacitance and resistance plays an important role. What SI unit is equal to one farad of capacitance times one ohm of resistance?
capacitors [or condensers; accept capacitance]
microfarads [prompt on millionth of a farad]
one second [prompt on time] (The quantity R times C gives the “time constant” for exponential decay in an RC circuit.) &lt;SE&gt;
“Meso” compounds contain a stereocenter but lack this property due to a plane of symmetry. For 10 points each:
Name this property that gives rise to optical isomers. Isomers of molecules with this property are often distinguished using the letters D and L.
Chirality often arises when an atom of this element is attached to four different atoms or groups. Organic compounds have a “backbone” of this element.
This term refers to optical isomers that are mirror images of one another. The relative difference between the two types of these compounds in a mixture is known as this term’s namesake “excess.”
chirality [accept word forms; prompt on handedness]
carbon [or C]
enantiomers [accept enantiomeric excess] &lt;AF&gt; Tiebreaker
Besides sucking blood, mosquitoes also carry some nasty diseases. Answer the following about them, for 10 points each:
Tu Youyou won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2015 for the discovery of artemisinin, whose derivatives are now used along with quinine to treat this mosquito-borne disease, caused by a parasite of the blood.
While mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles carry malaria, this other genus of mosquitoes can carry other diseases like Zika, dengue, and yellow fever.
Mosquitoes can also carry viruses which cause the West Nile and St. Louis types of this condition characterized by swelling of the brain. The herpes simplex virus can cause another form of this condition.
malaria [or Plasmodium]
Aedes
encepha·litis [do not accept or prompt on “meningitis”] &lt;HK&gt;
The precise measurement of variations in this quantity is known as geodesy. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that, on the Earth's surface, is approximated by “big G times Earth's mass, over the square of Earth's radius.”
Multiplying an object’s mass by the acceleration due to gravity gives this force measured in pounds. Unlike mass, this quantity would be reduced by a factor of six for a person on the Moon.
The real force of gravity is indistinguishable from an apparent force due to acceleration, according to a version of this principle propounded by Albert Einstein as part of his theory of general relativity.
acceleration due to gravity [prompt on partial answer; prompt on gravity or gravity field; prompt on g or little g; do not accept or prompt on “big G” or “gravitational constant”]
weight
equivalence principle [accept weak equivalence principle or Einstein equivalence principle] &lt;SE&gt;
The surface integral of a vector field can be calculated by dotting the function with this vector and then integrating. For 10 points each:
Give this word used to denote a vector or line that points out from a given plane or curve. The choice of the negative or positive one of these vectors reflects an object’s orientation.
In the normal distribution, 68% of the area lies less than this distance from the mean. This quantity is the square root of the variance, and it measures the spread of a set of data.
A normal matrix must satisfy this property with respect to its Hermitian adjoint. Matrix multiplication, unlike multiplication of numbers, generally does not have this property.
normal vector [do not accept or prompt on “orthogonal” or “perpendicular”]
standard deviation [prompt on partial answer; prompt on sigma]
commutativity [accept word forms like commutative property or “it commutes with…”] &lt;AF&gt;
The WMAP experiment measured the temperature of this phenomenon, which is about 2.7 kelvins. For 10 points each:
Name this astrophysical phenomenon, which Penzias and Wilson accidentally discovered at a New Jersey observatory in 1964.
The CMBR is thought to have been created approximately 300,000 years after this event 13.7 billion years ago, in which a singularity rapidly expanded to create the universe.
This NASA laboratory in Greenbelt, Maryland runs programs to measure the CMBR like the Atacama Cosmology Telescope. It’s named for the American father of rocket science and inventor of the liquid fuel rocket.
cosmic microwave background radiation [accept CMBR]
Big Bang
Goddard Space Flight Laboratory &lt;HK&gt;
The core of this statement is that genetic information flows from nucleic acids to protein, not the other way around. For 10 points each:
Name this framework that’s often oversimplified as “DNA makes RNA and RNA makes protein.” That version doesn’t easily cover cases like reverse transcription.
Reverse transcription of TERC replicates these structures in eukaryotes. The size of these structures, which form G-quadruplexes due to being half guanine, is measured using Flow-FISH.
The Central Dogma was first stated by this man. He shared a Nobel Prize in 1962 with Maurice Wilkins and James Watson for discovering the structure of DNA.
Central Dogma of molecular biology
telomeres
Francis (Harry Compton) Crick [accept Watson and Crick] &lt;BY&gt;
These substances come in <em>n</em>- and <em>p</em>-type varieties. For 10 points each:
Name these materials, which are often based on silicon and have a small band gap. Their name suggests that they conduct electricity better than insulators, but worse than conductors.
In semiconductors and insulators, this value falls in the band gap. This quantity represents an energy that has a 50% chance of being taken by one of the most energetic electrons, and is named for a 20th-century physicist.
Semiconductors are often made of these materials. These materials are found in a namesake “staircase” on the right-hand side of the periodic table.
semiconductors
Fermi level
metalloid [or semimetal] &lt;CK&gt;
This material-specific intensive quantity is multiplied by cross-sectional area and divided by length to give a related quantity denoted <em>R</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, symbolized rho, that measures a material’s intrinsic tendency to prevent the flow of electric current.
Resistivity in metals decreases as temperature tends towards zero. Measurements at low temperatures must often be made in a vat of this lightest noble gas and second lightest-element overall, which liquefies at 4.2 kelvins.
If one doesn’t need to go to quite such low temperatures, then one can instead use the liquid form of this element, which boils at the far toastier 77 kelvins.
resistivity [do not accept or prompt on “resistance”]
helium [accept He]
nitrogen [accept N] &lt;SE&gt;
This is the theoretically most efficient process for the conversion of heat into work. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a gas is reversibly expanded and compressed in four steps.
In the Carnot cycle, heat travels from the hot reservoir to the cold one, following this German's version of the second law of thermodynamics. He names the equation for the slope of a coexistence curve along with Clapeyron.
This quantity is held constant in two steps of the Carnot cycle. The efficiency of the engine is a function of the difference in this quantity between the two baths, as measured in Kelvins.
Carnot cycle [accept Carnot heat engine; accept Sadi Carnot]
Rudolf (Julius Emanuel) Clausius [accept Clausius–Clapeyron equation]
temperature [prompt on T] &lt;CK&gt;
Anyone who solves one of these problems is entitled to a million-dollar reward from the Clay Mathematics Institute. For 10 points each:
Name this set of unsolved problems in mathematics. Naturally, the million-dollar prize was declined by the only man to solve one so far.
Grigori Perelman declined the prize for proving the Poincaré conjecture, which concerns three-manifolds, which are analogous to these objects. These two-dimensional objects include toruses, planes, and Klein bottles.
The best-known Millennium Prize problem is to prove this hypothesis about the zeros of a complex-valued function, which has massive implications for the distribution of prime numbers.
Millennium Prize Problems [accept Millennium Problems]
surfaces [prompt on 2-manifolds]
Riemann hypothesis &lt;JW&gt;
This virus is the only member of genus <em>Lentivirus</em> that infects humans. For 10 points each:
Name this virus divided into a virulent subtype found globally and a less-virulent subtype endemic to Africa. Untreated cases of infection with this virus lead to AIDS.
This was the first drug to treat HIV. This drug consists of a nucleoside with a nitrogenous tag, which interferes with production of new HIV DNA.
HIV mainly infects T cells, but can also infect these large white blood cells that mostly engage in phagocytosis. They are divided into subtypes depending on if they encourage inflammation or tissue repair.
HIV [or Human Immunodeficiency Virus]
AZT [or azidothymidine; or ZDV; or Zidovudine]
macrophages &lt;AF&gt;
For 10 points each—name the following types of electric current:
60 hertz is the standard American oscillation frequency for this type of current, which is used to deliver electricity to homes. It is contrasted with direct current.
The current through an Esaki diode operates via this purely quantum mechanical process, in which a particle leaps from one side of a classically forbidden region to the other.
Changing magnetic fields induce these current loops in resistive materials. They dissipate energy and are sometimes used as brakes for high-speed trains.
alternating current [or AC]
quantum tunneling [or tunneling current]
eddy currents &lt;SE&gt;
In extreme environments like deep sea vents, this process is performed by chemotrophs. For 10 points each:
Name this process of producing new organic material from nonliving sources. It’s performed by autotrophs.
Primary productivity is measured by the amount of this stuff that’s produced. This is the term for the total amount of living matter in a given ecosystem.
Earth’s primary productivity fluctuates in a yearly cycle due to the enormous amounts of biomass produced by forests in this kind of climate. Forests in this kind of climate are known as taiga.
primary production
biomass
boreal [accept subarctic, subpolar, or subalpine] &lt;JR&gt;
This term refers to the process of re-integrating two branches in Git. For 10 points each:
Give this term that also names a sorting algorithm developed by von Neumann. That algorithm has a big-O runtime of “n log n” and recursively divides an array, using this namesake operation to recombine the subarrays.
That process of recursively breaking down a problem into parts and then combining the solutions to the subproblems is described by this common three-word English phrase.
Despite quicksort being generally faster, mergesort is useful because it has this sorting property. Sorting algorithms with this property maintain the order of equal values within the input list.
merging [accept mergesort]
divide and conquer
stability [accept word forms like stable] &lt;BY/AF&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Classical Arabic thought:
The Persian thinker al-Khwarizmi was the first to detail the techniques of subtracting and adding from both sides of an equation, thus inventing this kind of mathematics, which involves abstract symbols like “x.”
The Persian philosopher Avicenna used the “flying man” thought experiment to argue for the existence of this thing. The word “psychology” once mean the study of this thing, which is examined in Aristotle’s De Anima.
This North African historian proposed a cycle in which empires gradually lose Asabiyyah or social cohesion in his historiographical work Muqaddimah.
algebra
souls
Ibn Khaldun [or Abu Zayd ‘Abd ar-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn Khaldun al-Hadrami] &lt;JR&gt;
In these substances, the beyond-leading-order coefficients of the virial expansion are nonzero. For 10 points each:
Give this term for substances with a compressibility factor that deviates from 1.
Equations describing real gases attempt to account for the presence of intermolecular forces, unlike this simpler equation, which states that “PV equals nRT.”
By observing that the number of moles equals a gas’s mass divided by its molar mass, one can rearrange the ideal gas law to find that this quantity is given by pressure times molar mass over RT.
real gases [prompt on gases; prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal non-ideal gases; do not accept or prompt on “ideal gases”]
ideal gas law
density [or mass density] &lt;SE&gt;
In a system with spatial translational symmetry, this quantity will be conserved as a consequence of Noether’s theorem. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that, for a moving object, equals its mass times its velocity.
In a system of many particles in which total momentum is conserved, this point moves at constant velocity. This point can be located by adding up mass times position for all particles, and dividing by total mass.
In the gravitational two-body problem of masses at positions R1 and R2, one often transforms to a coordinate system with the center of mass as one coordinate. What is the expression for the other coordinate?
linear momentum [do not accept or prompt on “angular momentum”]
center of mass [or barycenter]
R2 minus R1 [or R1 minus R2] &lt;SE&gt;
This experiment’s quantum interpretation leads to bizarre consequences like the “quantum eraser.” For 10 points each:
Name this experiment, first performed in 1801, in which a single beam of light passing through two sources was shown to interfere with itself.
The interference observed in Young’s experiment was an example of light acting as one of these oscillating disturbances. Light can be seen as either a particle or one of these things according to a namesake “duality.”
Electrons were shown to act as waves too in this experiment conducted in the 1920s. The diffraction pattern observed in this experiment confirmed the de Broglie matter-wave hypothesis.
Young’s double-slit experiment [accept Young’s experiment]
waves
Davisson–Germer experiment &lt;SE&gt;
These procedures are often conducted using a burette with a stopcock. For 10 points each:
Name these procedures in which an acid or base is slowly added to a base or acid, producing a “curve” that tells you the acid-dissociation constant of a solution.
In a titration, the solution’s indicator changes color at this point, which usually sees a rapid change in pH.
You can read the pKa of an acid directly off of a titration curve by seeing its pH at what volume of added base?
titrations
endpoint [do not accept or prompt on “equivalence point”]
one-half the volume at the equivalence point [or half-neutralization] &lt;JR&gt;
This diagram’s three arms are labeled “S,” “SB,” and “E,” and are connected by a node marked “S-zero.” For 10 points each:
Name this diagram used for classifying certain objects as “elliptical,” “lenticular,” “spiral,” or “barred spiral.”
Hubble’s tuning fork diagram enumerates the possible shapes of these collections of hundreds of billions of stars. The nearest one to our own is called Andromeda.
Galaxies are often orbited by the “globular” type of these smaller collections of stars. This term also describes a collection of galaxies larger than a group, such as the Virgo one to which the Milky Way belongs.
Hubble tuning fork diagram [or Hubble sequence; prompt on Hubble diagram]
galaxies [or galaxy]
clusters [accept globular clusters or galaxy clusters or galaxy superclusters] &lt;SE&gt;
These structures contain the papillary muscles. For 10 points each:
Name these structures that pump blood in the heart. The mitral valve connects the left one of them to the left atrium.
The mitral valve can become calcified due to the immune hypersensitivity caused by this condition, which results from infection with Streptococcus pyogenes. It also causes a namesake joint pain.
The ventricles are separated from each other by a structure with this name. The two nostrils are separated by one of these structures, which can become “deviated” by trauma.
ventricles
rheumatic fever [accept rheumatic heart disease; prompt on RF]
septum [or septa] &lt;HK&gt;
This kind of design is often used in agricultural experiments, where one of these groups just corresponds to a plot of land. For 10 points each:
Name these groups of experimental subjects, which are created to reduce noise by dividing the sample into more homogeneous subsets. For experiments on people, these subsets are often created by gender.
Within a block, a treatment is usually assigned in this fashion, in which every subject has an equal likelihood of receiving a given treatment. If there are two treatments, this kind of assignment can be produced using a coin flip.
While blocking can remove nuisance factors, it can’t remove these variables. Similarly to lurking variables, you can’t tell the effect of these variables on the response variable apart from the effect of the independent variable.
blocks [accept word forms]
randomized [accept word forms like randomly; accept randomized block design]
confounding variables [or confounding factors] &lt;JR&gt;
The debate over whether this substance was dragged along by moving objects led to competing theories by Augustin-Jean Fresnel and George Stokes. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothetical medium through which light was believed to travel. Its existence was disproved by an 1887 experiment that did not observe fringe shifts in a rotating interferometer.
In 1892 this Dutch physicist proposed a more plausible but still incorrect ether theory, from which he derived the existence of length contraction independently of George FitzGerald.
The behavior of objects near the speed of light was much better explained in the 1905 papers in which Albert Einstein laid out the “special” form of this branch of physics.
luminiferous ether (That experiment was the Michelson–Morley experiment.)
Hendrik Lorentz [or Hendrik Antoon Lorentz]
relativity [accept special relativity] &lt;SE&gt;
This theory can be used to derive the pressure exerted by a gas based on its collisions with its container. For 10 points each:
Name this theory that derives macroscopic properties of a gas from microscopic properties like an individual molecule’s momentum. Its assumptions include a lack of intermolecular forces and small, uniform molecules.
Another kinetic theory, the Michaelis–Menten theory, relies on this assumption about the concentrations of substrates. This phrase describes non-equilibria in which state variables are not changing.
Yet another kinetic effect concerns the effect of different examples of these entities on reaction rates. J.J. Thompson discovered these species of an element with different numbers of neutrons.
kinetic theory of gases [or kinetic molecular theory]
steady state approximation
isotopes [accept kinetic isotope effect] &lt;AF&gt;
This process can occur following acquisition of the enzyme New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase-1. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which bacteria acquire genes that allow them to survive antibiotics. Many instances of this process are occurring due to the practice of feeding livestock antibiotics when they are healthy.
A strain of this bacterium resistant to methicillin is responsible for the most deaths of any resistant pathogen, and is classified into hospital, livestock, and community acquired types.
S. aureus can become resistant through the acquisition of the SCCmec example of these genetic elements, which are the most common carriers of resistance genes. They are composed of a gene and a recombination site.
antibiotic resistance [accept antimicrobial resistance]
Staphylococcus aureus [accept MRSA; prompt on “staphylococcus”]
gene cassette [accept SCCmec cassette] &lt;AF&gt;
By the Pythagorean identity, sine-squared plus cosine-squared equals this number. For 10 points each:
Give this number that’s the radius of the unit circle.
On the unit circle, the sine and cosine of 45 degrees, or pi-over-4 radians, are both given by this fraction.
The unit circle is often considered in the complex plane, where Euler’s formulas give nice definitions for sine and cosine. What two functions appear in the numerators of those formulas? The denominators are 2 and 2i.
one
[or the square root of 2 over 2; or one over the square root of 2]
AND [or “e to the i times x” AND: “e to the negative i times x” or “e to the minus i times x”; prompt on complex exponential; do not accept or prompt on “e to the x”] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the exotic bonding properties of boron:
Borane compounds of boron and hydrogen often form unusual bonds named for having this many “centers.” Those bonds contain an empty non-bonding orbital.
Being a group-13 element, boron also has three valence electrons, which often renders it incapable of satisfying this principle. This rule predicts chemical bonding by assigning eight electrons to each atom.
The central boron atom of boron trifluoride is extremely electron-deficient, making BF3 a good example of these compounds, which are defined as electron-pair acceptors.
three [accept three-center two-electron bond]
octet rule
Lewis acids [prompt on acids] &lt;SE&gt;
Due to its slowness, this algorithm is commonly used to encrypt shared “keys,” which are then used to encrypt actual data. For 10 points each:
Name this encryption algorithm named for three computer scientists. Its first two steps are computing the product of two large primes, then computing Carmichael’s totient function for that product.
RSA works due to this Frenchman’s “little” theorem. His “last” theorem, which took over 300 years to prove, states that there is no solution to “x-to-the-n plus y-to-the-n equals z-to-the-n” for integers x, y, z and n greater than 2.
RSA won’t be secure once quantum computers become viable, unlike an encryption protocol known as the quantum form of this process. The expected value of this process is the subject of the St. Petersburg paradox.
RSA cryptosystem [or Rivest–Shamir–Adleman algorithm]
Pierre de Fermat [accept Fermat’s Little or Last theorem]
quantum coin flipping [accept descriptive answers like coin toss] &lt;AF&gt;
Applying this law to airflow above and below an airplane wing is often used to explain part of the origin of lift. For 10 points each:
Name this law of fluid dynamics, according to which a faster-moving fluid exerts a lower pressure on its surroundings.
When air splits to flow above and below an airfoil, the point where the local flow velocity is zero is known by this name. A pitot [pi-TOH] tube measures a type of pressure known by this term to determine fluid velocity.
Bernoulli’s principle results from overall conservation of this quantity. The many types of this quantity include a “rest” type that is equal to “mass times the speed of light-squared.”
Bernoulli’s principle [or Bernoulli’s law]
stagnation point [or stagnation pressure]
total energy [prompt on E] &lt;SE&gt;
Species with this relationship will usually have some synapomorphies in common. For 10 points each:
Name this relationship that’s indicated whenever two species branch from the same point on a phylogenetic tree. Members of a species must also have this relationship to a single organism; a description is fine.
Another word for a synapomorphy is a trait with this property, meaning they come from the same ancestral trait. Whale fins have this property with respect to mammal paws and human hands.
Convergence can lead to false “homologies.” Name either of the major kinds of false clades that can result; one doesn’t include the most recent common ancestor, while the other does but doesn’t include all of its descendants.
sharing a common ancestor [accept rough equivalents like they descend from the same species]
homologous [accept word forms like homology]
polyphyletic OR paraphyletic &lt;JR&gt;
These particles come in six “flavors,” though ordinary baryonic matter only contains the “up” and “down” types. For 10 points each:
Name these elementary particles that make up protons and neutrons. Murray Gell-Mann got their name from a James Joyce novel that mentions “three” of them “for Muster Mark.”
Quarks are fundamental particles of quantum chromodynamics, in which they are held together by the strong force. The strong force is mediated by these massless bosons.
Quarks and gluons are very difficult to observe directly. Instead, QCD experiments usually measure these cone-shaped bursts of hadrons that are emitted from high-energy quark interactions.
quarks
gluons
jets &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—identify the following elements that are readily produced by electrolysis:
Electrolysis is needed to obtain the elemental form of this lightest halogen, since, as the most electronegative element, it is almost always found in molecular compounds.
While this element is the most abundant metal in the Earth’s crust, its pure form was rare until the development of the Hall–Héroult process, which extracts it from molten cryolite.
This element, which made up the cathode of the early Daniell cell, is purified from its “blister” ore in an electrolytic cell in which this element makes up both the anode and the cathode.
fluorine [accept F]
aluminum [accept Al]
copper [accept Cu] &lt;SE&gt;
When these things are “inconsistent,” they give nonsense answers like “0 equals 1.” For 10 points each:
Give this term for a set of multiple equations, which can be solved by adding or subtracting them from each other and then substituting in.
To solve a system of equations, it must have this property, in which no equation is algebraically equivalent to the others. A system will lack this property if one equation is a multiple of another.
A classic algorithm to solve linear systems is Gaussian elimination, in which you can only do three row “operations.” One of them is swapping two rows—name the other two. Rough descriptions are fine.
system of (linear) equations [or linear system]
independence [accept word forms like independent]
multiplying a row by a constant AND adding [or subtracting] a multiple of a row to another row &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about spheres in astrophysics:
Young OB-type stars can be surrounded by Strömgren spheres, which are composed of ions of this most common element in the universe. Nuclei of this element fuse to form helium in the proton-proton chain.
Another common type of sphere are the spheres named for this particle, which have radii equal to 1.5 times the Schwarzschild radius. These particles formed the CMBR after the time of last scattering.
Photon spheres occur to the gravitational fields produced by these typically spherical objects, which are contained within the Schwarzschild radius.
hydrogen [or H]
photons [accept photon sphere]
black holes &lt;AF&gt; Tiebreaker
For 10 points each—answer the following about how water droplets in the air split light to form rainbows:
Rainbows form when white light is split based on this property. Within the visible spectrum, this property is longest for red light and shortest for violet light.
That splitting is an example of this phenomenon, in which a material’s refractive index varies as a function of frequency or wavelength.
Light passing through spherical water droplets is formally described using a type of this process named for Gustav Mie. This general process describes the redirection of moving particles due to interactions with other objects.
wavelength
dispersion
scattering [accept Mie scattering] &lt;SE&gt;
Organisms with this feature are mostly classified as deuterostomes or protostomes. For 10 points each:
Name this feature of most animal phyla, which have a front, back, top, and bottom, but otherwise have two of most body parts.
Animals without bilateral symmetry include sponges and this phylum of corals and jellyfish.
Unlike animals with bilateral symmetry, cnidarians and sponges have this number of germ layers.
bilateral symmetry [or plane symmetry; prompt on symmetry]
Cnidaria [or cnidarians]
two [accept diploblast] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—identify the following about our understanding of atomic nuclei:
Atomic nuclei were shown to be tiny masses at the center of atoms in an experiment in which students of Ernest Rutherford fired alpha particles at a thin foil of this precious metal.
Just like electrons, nuclear protons and neutrons are organized into shells. Those shells arise because, as identical fermions, protons and neutrons are subject to this rule that restricts their possible quantum states.
The residual strong force that binds nuclei together is mediated by this set of three very light mesons. Predicted by Hideki Yukawa, these particles were discovered in 1947 by Cecil Powell.
gold [accept Rutherford’s gold foil experiment]
Pauli exclusion principle [accept Pauli principle]
pions &lt;SE&gt;
Hammond’s postulate states that this entity’s structure depends on its relative energy difference with respect to nearby species on a reaction coordinate. For 10 points each:
Name these temporary configurations, which require a reaction’s activation energy to form.
Transition state theory can be used to derive Eyring’s formula for a constant describing this property of a reaction, which depends on temperature and reactant concentration. This value quantifies how fast a reaction occurs.
An integrated rate law is expressed in terms of reactant concentrations and this quantity. For a first order equation, the difference of the logarithms of the reactant concentrations equals negative this term.
transition states [or activated complexes]
reaction rate [prompt on k]
minus k-t [or rate constant times time] &lt;AF&gt;
These events jettison tephra into the air, and they form rocks called tuff. For 10 points:
Name these events that violently expel lava and ash. On a namesake index, their strength is labeled as “Hawaiian,” “Strombolian,” “Vulcanian” “Peléan,” or “Plinian.”
This kind of basaltic lava flow occurs when lava flows rapidly, causing rapid heat loss and increased viscosity. It has a sharp-edged, brittle, “bubbly” appearance.
An explosive volcanic eruption can form one of these sinkhole-like features at the top of the mountain.
volcanic eruptions [accept Volcanic Explosivity Index]
‘a‘a [ah-ah]
calderas [prompt on craters] &lt;HK&gt;
In an ideal plasma, these objects are “frozen in” and move along with the plasma. For 10 points each:
Name these visual aids that are drawn looping around electric currents, but never actually touching them.
Field lines are useful because they depict both the direction and strength of electric and magnetic fields. The direction is indicated by drawing arrows on the lines; what property indicates field strength? A description is fine.
The electric field lines of a point charge draw together near the charge, illustrating this law named for a Frenchman, by which the electrostatic force between charged particles varies with the inverse square of the distance.
magnetic field lines [prompt on partial answer]
density of lines [accept answers describing how close together they are or how many of them there are]
Coulomb’s law &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about meiosis:
Meiosis creates four cells with this genetic property, meaning they only have one of each chromosome. These cells are contrasted with diploid cells, which have two of each chromosome.
During prophase I of meiosis, chromosomes exchange genetic material by “crossing over.” This is the term for the binding-together of chromosomes that allows crossing-over to happen.
After the separation of homologous chromosomes, sister chromatids are separated in this phase of meiosis.
haploid
synapsis
anaphase II [prompt on partial answer] &lt;JR&gt;
Applying this change drives the equilibrium of the Haber–Bosch process to the left. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of change in experimental conditions, which makes entropy-increasing reactions more favorable.
The aforementioned change can be understood by noting that this quantity, equal to “enthalpy minus temperature times entropy,” becomes more negative if the entropy change is positive and temperature goes up.
More qualitatively, that change is an application of this principle named for a Frenchman, by which chemical equilibrium shifts to counteract a change in experimental conditions.
increasing the temperature [accept any answer indicating that the temperature goes up; prompt on answers mentioning a change in temperature]
Gibbs free energy [prompt on partial answer; prompt on delta-G; do not accept or prompt on “Helmholtz free energy”]
Le Châtelier’s principle &lt;SE&gt;
This kind of scan is often used over MRI because it’s faster and quieter. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of tissue scan that’s often combined with PET imaging. Many patients elect not to undergo this kind of scan due to its use of ionizing radiation and heavy metal-based contrast agents.
CT scans are produced using this kind of radiation, which is less energetic than gamma rays but more so than UV radiation. This kind of radiation is good for imaging hard tissue like bone.
To conduct a PET scan, you need to inject one of these radioactive labelling compounds, which emit the scan’s namesake positrons. The concentration of this kind of substance shows the metabolic rates of various tissues.
CT scan [or computerized tomography; accept CAT or computerized axial tomography]
X-rays
tracers &lt;JR&gt;
This circuit element is equivalent to a one-way check valve by the hydraulic analogy. For 10 points each:
Name this circuit element which, like a valve, allows current to flow in only one direction.
According to the hydraulic analogy, electric potential in a circuit is equivalent to this quantity for water in a pipe whose difference is equal to rho g delta h.
This circuit element’s water equivalent is a hydraulic accumulator, a tank with a flexible rubber diaphragm that stores energy by the stretching of the rubber sheet and that leaks out water after it has been filled from the front end.
diode
pressure
capacitor &lt;McMaken&gt;
The “tail” form of this thing results in a functional language not adding that call to the stack. For 10 points each:
Name this process whereby a function is applied within its own definition, useful in creating things like the Koch snowflake.
The Koch snowflake is a type of this thing, other types of which are named for Sierpinski and Mandelbrot.
The recursively-defined inductive dimension will always be less than or equal to this dimension of a fractal named for a German mathematician. For the Koch snowflake, this quantity is log-base-three of four, or about 1.26.
recursion
fractal
Hausdorff dimension &lt;McMaken&gt;
The development of quantum theories has a long history. For 10 points each:
Max Planck’s study of radiation from this type of source that ideally reflects no light showed that its modes have to be quantized in order to prevent high frequency intensity from growing to infinity in the so-called ultraviolet catastrophe.
Following the ideas of Planck, Albert Einstein earned a Nobel Prize not for his theories of relativity or mass-energy equivalence, but rather for this effect that showed that light hitting a metal surface could be treated as packets of quanta.
This scientist experimentally verified the photoelectric effect and in the process obtained an accurate value of Planck’s constant. He also obtained a value of the constant for the quantization of electric charge in his namesake oil drop experiment.
black body
photoelectric effect
Robert Andrews Millikan &lt;McMaken&gt;
These things can be classified by the number of cotyledons in their embryos. For 10 points each:
Name these flowering plants whose name derives from the Greek words for “casing” and “seed,” unlike the similarly-named classification meaning “naked seed.”
The female part of an angiosperm is composed of the stigma, style, and ovary, and is collectively known by this name.
The male part of a flower, the stamen, is composed of a filament attached to this structure, which houses pollen grains that develop from the microspore in the microsporangia of this structure.
angiosperms [or Angiospermae or Magnoliophyta]
pistil
anther &lt;McMaken&gt;
Examples of these things include the figure-eight and the trefoil. For 10 points each:
Give the term for embeddings of circles in three-dimensional Euclidean space. These mathematical objects differ from the conventional notions of their namesakes in that they have no thickness and no ends to untie.
This simplest composite knot is obtained by taking the connected sum of a trefoil knot with its reflection. It is distinct from the granny knot, which is the connected sum of two identical trefoils.
Knot theory categorizes three types of local “moves” named for this mathematician that can be performed on a link diagram without changing the knot itself. These moves consist of a twist, moving a loop over another strand, and moving a loop over a crossing.
knots
square knot
Reidemeister move &lt;McMaken&gt;
The F layer of this region is named for Appleton. For 10 points each:
Name this region of Earth’s atmosphere, the inner layer of the magnetosphere. It is named for its heavy concentration of charged particles.
During a geomagnetic storm, the Northern polar region will experience this phenomenon in the ionosphere, in which charged particles in solar wind interact with Earth’s magnetic field to form a display of light that for the Southern pole has the modifier “australis.”
The equatorial anomaly in the ionosphere lies at about this many degrees from the Earth’s magnetic equator, within a few degrees. This is also the number of degrees that the Earth is tilted from the plane of its orbit around the Sun.
ionosphere
aurora borealis [prompt on partial answer; prompt on northern lights]
23.5° [accept any answer from 18° to 24°] &lt;McMaken&gt;
Compass and straightedge ready. For 10 points each:
We won’t actually be using these tools, but mathematicians have spent a lot of time thinking about them, including this German who worked out in 1796 which polygons can be constructed from them. He also proved the fundamental theorem of algebra and found out how to add the numbers from 1 to 100 when he was eight years old.
For a line segment connecting points A and B, by drawing circles of equal radii centered at points A and B, one can construct this type of line that passes through the circles’ two intersections. In a triangle, three of these things meet at the circumcenter.
This task is impossible to carry out with just a straightedge and compass because the square root of pi is a transcendental number. This task involves constructing two certain shapes so that they have equal areas.
Carl Friedrich Gauss
perpendicular bisector [prompt on partial answer]
squaring the circle [or quadrature of the circle] &lt;McMaken&gt;
Fleming’s version of this mnemonic can be used to find the direction of current in a generator. For 10 points each:
Give this rule whose namesake object can be used to determine the chiral conventions for the direction of the cross product of two vectors in three dimensions.
If a negative charge is moving into the page within a magnetic field pointing South, then the corresponding Lorentz force on the negative particle points in this direction.
By choosing the thumb to point away from the Earth, the right-hand rule can also give the direction of rotation of low-pressure areas in the Northern Hemisphere due to this inertial effect, which causes the deflection of objects moving in a North-South trajectory by its namesake fictitious force.
right-hand rule
East
Coriolis effect &lt;McMaken&gt;
The specific heat of a material can be calculated by taking the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to temperature under constant pressure. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity equal to Gibbs free energy plus the product of temperature and entropy and is notably a state function.
This type of thermodynamic process is used after the isothermal expansion and isothermal compression steps in the Carnot cycle. It asymptotically approaches the P and V axes when represented on a P-V diagram and occur without any transfer of heat.
This double-eponymous law states that molar heat capacity of many solid elements is about 3 times the universal gas constant, or about 25 joules per kelvin.
enthalpy [prompt on H]
adiabatic [accept isentropic]
Dulong-Petit Law &lt;Jin&gt;
The plasma membrane is composed of many complex parts working in tandem. For 10 points each:
The primary component of the plasma membrane is this amphipathic molecule, composed of a hydrophilic head and two hydrophobic hydrocarbon tails. It forms a namesake bilayer in cell membranes.
This amphipathic modified steroid is also prevalent in the plasma membrane, providing more rigid structure to the fluid phospholipid bilayer. When in excess in humans, this molecule can build up in arteries and result in atherosclerosis.
Membrane lipids and proteins that are glycosylated upon inclusion in the membrane combine to form this carbohydrate surface coat. This extracellular layer is utilized in cell-to-cell recognition and intercellular adhesion.
phospholipid
cholesterol
glycocalyx [also pericellular matrix] (prompt on extracellular matrix) &lt;Halza&gt;
The namesake of this reaction was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1912. For 10 points each:
Name this reaction developed by a French chemist in which the namesake reagents add to a carbonyl group to form carbon-carbon bonds in an organometallic form.
A Grignard reagent consists of a halide of this element with atomic number twelve. A sulfate of this element is known as Epsom salt.
The reaction of a Grignard reagent with formaldehyde yields the primary form of this class of organic compounds, in which case a hydroxyl group is attached to a primary carbon.
Grignard reaction
magnesium
alcohol &lt;McMaken&gt;
This man is the subject of the fable <em>The Astrologer Who Fell into a Well</em>, in which he performs the title action because he is too busy looking at the stars. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher who is arguably best known for a namesake theorem that is essentially a special case of the inscribed angle theorem.
Thales is well-known for his rejection of mythology to explain natural phenomena, believing that all matter was derived from this substance.
Thales was one of the three Milesian philosophers, along with Anaximander and this other man. This man believed that the Earth, Sun and Moon were flat disks that floated on streams of air.
Thales
water
Anaximenes of Miletus &lt;Jin&gt;
Bacteria, despite reproducing by binary fission, have mechanisms for genetic variation. For 10 points each:
This process is the means by which a bacterium takes in foreign DNA from its environment. Frederick Griffith first observed this phenomenon in Streptococcus cells in 1928.
These two scientists proved that DNA is the primary vehicle of genetic information through their namesake experiment conducted in 1952, in which bacteriophages infected bacterial cells with DNA and not primarily proteins.
Conjugation, a form of horizontal gene transfer that connects two bacteria via a pilus, transports this plasmid, which contains specific replication genes and tra genes, despite not being necessary for bacterial function. In E. Coli, it is known as the sex factor.
transformation
Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase [both parts required]
fertility factor [or F factor] &lt;Halza&gt;
An algorithm that builds these structures from the bottom up was invented in 1964 and has a worst-case time complexity of O(n) [“big O of n”]. For 10 points each:
Name this structure in which every node satisfies a namesake property in which the key of a child node must be greater than or equal to the key of its parent node.
Because a heap is essentially a priority queue, a minheap can be used in the fastest iteration of this algorithm that finds the shortest path between nodes in a given graph.
Due to their tree-like structure, heaps have this worst-case time complexity when used to sort a list of elements.
heap [accept minheap, do not accept or prompt on maxheap]
Dijkstra's algorithm
O(n log n) [do not accept or prompt on O(n) or O(log n)] &lt;Jin&gt;
Identify some namesake catastrophes in science, for 10 points each:
This discrepancy between classical and quantum theory is the prediction that classically, an ideal black body will emit radiation according to the Rayleigh-Jeans law such that as the wavelength approaches the namesake region of the spectrum, the radiated power will approach infinity.
About five-hundred million years into the formation of Earth, this differentiation event occurred, in which radioactive heating reached a critical temperature so that the namesake element, which was originally distributed uniformly throughout the protoplanet, could migrate by a runaway process to the center to form a molten core.
This discrepancy, described as “the worst theoretical prediction in the history of physics,” is the disagreement of over 120 orders of magnitude between the theoretical zero-point energy suggested by quantum field theory and the measured energy density of the namesake space given by the cosmological constant.
ultraviolet catastrophe [or UV catastrophe]
iron catastrophe
vacuum catastrophe &lt;McMaken&gt;
Cancer presents itself in many different forms. Answer the following about some of them, for 10 points each:
Basal cell carcinoma is the most common form of cancer concerning this organ, which is adversely affected by UV ray exposure.
Hodgkin’s lymphoma originates in Reed-Sternberg cells, which are mutated forms of these cells. Separated into B cells and T cells, these cells are one of the main subdivisions of white blood cells.
Cancerous growths of the connective tissue are considered this type of cancer. Most common in children, the Ewing’s variety of this type of cancer is known to attack the primitive cells of and around bones.
skin
lymphocytes
sarcoma &lt;Halza&gt;
Answer some questions about the 2017 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, for 10 points each:
The prize was awarded to Dubochet, Frank, and Henderson for their pioneering work in the cryo-electron form of this field that probes small resolution ranges. Other types of this field include “scanning electron” and “optical.”
Dubochet’s contribution to the field involved performing this process on water. In general, this process transforms a substance into a non-crystalline amorphous glass, so that if water is cooled rapidly enough, biomolecules will not be damaged by crystal formation.
Cryo-electron microscopy made possible the three-dimensional surface mapping of this virus, which led to the discovery of an E glycoprotein distinct from other flaviviruses, a discovery which may help prevent outbreaks of this virus like the one that began in 2015 in Brazil.
microscopy [accept word forms]
vitrification [accept word forms]
Zika virus [or ZIKV] &lt;McMaken&gt;
The infinite continued fraction “one plus one over quantity one plus one over quantity one, and so forth, yields this number. For 10 points each:
Identify this constant, symbolized lowercase phi, which is equal to its reciprocal plus one.
Because it is the root of the polynomial x2-x-1 [x-squared minus x minus one], the golden ratio is this type of number, which differs from transcendental numbers like pi in that it can be expressed as the root of a polynomial with non-zero, rational coefficients.
The golden ratio is also the limit of the ratio of consecutive numbers in a sequence named for the author of this work. That author, Fibonacci, did not mention the golden ratio in this work, instead spending most of the time rocking the Western world with the Hindu–Arabic numeral system and making up stories about rabbits.
golden ratio [or divine proportion or medial section; prompt on an approximation like 1.618]
algebraic integer
Liber Abaci &lt;McMaken&gt;
Using a radioactive carbon-14 isotope as a tracer, Andrew Benson and this reaction series’ other namesake mapped carbon’s complete route through this cycle during photosynthesis. For 10 points each:
Name this cycle in which ribulose bisphosphate catches carbon dioxide and makes sugar for plants.
This enzyme catalyzes the first major step of carbon fixation in the Calvin cycle. It uses ATP and NADPH to break six-carbon molecules into two equal parts, and it is the most abundant protein on Earth.
To ensure that RuBisCO is not wastefully fixing oxygen instead of carbon dioxide, this pathway is utilized by some plants to bypass the photorespiration pathway. It involves binding PEP with CO2 to produce a compound with its namesake number of carbons.
Calvin-Benson cycle [or C3 cycle]
RuBisCO [or ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase, but not if they’re trying to sound smart and end up messing up part of it]
C4 carbon fixation &lt;McMaken&gt;
Special types of this phenomenon include “ball,” “bead,” and “heat” types. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that occurs when the atmospheric field strength exceeds about three million volts per meter.
Lightning consists of the partially-ionized form of this state of matter which may be the most abundant state in the Universe because of its presence in stars.
Lightning is initiated by this effect when water and ice droplets interact with friction. This effect’s namesake series pairs amber with wool and glass with silk.
lightning
plasma
triboelectric charging &lt;McMaken&gt;
In giraffes, this structure can run up to fifteen feet long, from the top of its neck to its front toe. For 10 points each:
Name these cytoplasmic protrusions from the cell body of a neuron, which transmit electrical signals received by dendrites.
A giant axon a millimeter thick in the longfin inshore species of this animal was famously studied by Hodgkin and Huxley. That axon in this creature controls its water jet propulsion system.
The longest axons in the human body are those of this nerve, which runs from the base of the spinal cord through the buttock to the big toe.
axons
squid
sciatic nerve &lt;McMaken&gt;
See how well you know your vitamins, for 10 points each:
Ascorbic acid is the name usually given for the vitamin known by this letter. This vitamin is found in citrus fruits and can help prevent scurvy.
Deficiency of this vitamin can cause a medical condition in which the eye fails to produce tears. It is found in fish, dairy products, and meat, and has the chemical name retinol.
Vitamin B9 has this chemical name. This vitamin can help prevent anemia, and it is found in many leafy vegetables, leading to its Latin root, the word for “leaf.”
vitamin C
vitamin A
folic acid [or folate] &lt;McMaken&gt;
In ray diagrams, these things are represented by two intersecting curved lines. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, the concave types of which bulge inward and cause light to diverge.
All rays of light entering a lens parallel to the optic axis will exit the lens in a line intersecting this point.
This type of lens has its surface broken up by narrow, stepped rings that save space and mass to produce shorter focal lengths and larger apertures. It is often used in lighthouses, and its namesake French physicist coined the term linear polarization.
lens
focal point [or focus]
Fresnel [fray-NEL] lens &lt;McMaken&gt;
This theory was first proposed by Abraham Ortelius in 1596, and has been supplanted with the discovery of mechanisms such as sea-floor spreading and mantle convection. For 10 points each:
Name this geologic theory formulated by Alfred Wegener that states the Earth’s crust is composed of plates that move relative to each other over time.
These zones occur as a result of tensional tectonic forces, creating grabens and half-grabens as well as forming new crustal material.
This large region in East Africa runs almost four thousand miles and is an aulacogen, a rift zone formed when one plate in a triple junction is overtaken by the other two plates.
theory of continental drift [do not accept or prompt on plate tectonics because Wegener was only involved in the theory of continental drift]
rift zones
Great Rift Valley &lt;Jin&gt;
When this adjective is used with “cosine,” it denotes the function $\frac{1}{2}(e^{x} + e^{- x})$ [“one-half quantity e to the x plus e to the minus x”]. For 10 points each:
Give this adjective that describes things related to the conic section exemplified by the function f$(x) = \frac{1}{x}$ [“f of x equals one over x”].
Surfaces such as the saddle, which have a hyperbolic geometry, do not satisfy this postulate from Euclid’s Elements, since two lines on such a surface that locally have the namesake property will diverge.
The hyperbolic sine is this type of function, which can be represented mathematically by the relation sinh(-x) = -sinh(x) [“sinch of negative x equals negative sinch of x”].
hyperbolic
parallel postulate
odd &lt;McMaken&gt;
This equation includes the term “R T over z F times the natural log of Q.” For 10 points each:
Name this equation named after a German physical chemist, which can be used to calculate quantities associated with half-cell or fuel-cell reactions such as the activity, temperature, and electromotive force.
Oxidation occurs at this end of a cell, in which conventional current flows into a half cell.
A quantity symbolized nu and known as this word prefixed with “over” occurs in variants of the Nernst equation because heat loss makes reactions less efficient. A quantity symbolized mu and known as the “chemical” type of this quantity can be used to derive the Nernst equation.
Nernst equation
anode
potential &lt;McMaken&gt;
This physicist co-names an equation with Ludvig Lorenz relating polarizability to a material’s index of refraction. For 10 points each:
Name this Dutch Nobel laureate who names the set of transformation equations used in Einstein’s theory of special relativity. He also is the namesake the force felt by a charged particle in an electromagnetic field.
Edward Norton Lorenz lends his name to a particular type of the “strange” version of this thing, a set of chaotic solutions that evolve from varied initial conditions.
Konrad Lorenz helped pioneer the field of modern ethology by studying this instinctive behavior in graylag geese, in which they bond with the first moving object they see after hatching.
Hendrik Lorentz
attractor
imprinting &lt;McMaken&gt;
A population’s net rate reaches its net death rate if this quantity is reached. For 10 points each:
Name this maximal load of a population in a local environment, which in population dynamics is symbolized K.
In contrast to K-selection, species that exhibit this form of selection exploit less-crowded ecological niches and produce many offspring that have lower chances of survival. The name for this type of selection refers to the term in the Verhulst model that describes the maximum growth rate.
The aforementioned Verhulst model consists of a differential equation describing this type of curve. This function, a type of sigmoid curve, runs from zero to the carrying capacity in an “S” shape.
carrying capacity
r-selection
logistic growth &lt;McMaken&gt;
A description of the structure of this thing by John Newlands four years before its full formulation is called the Law of Octaves. For 10 points each:
Name this arrangement of the atomic elements by mass and into columns and rows with similar chemical properties.
This Russian chemist was the first to fully formulate the periodic table and make predictions through its trends, arranging the 56 known elements into eight groups he envisioned in a dream.
After Mendeleev’s publication, Horace Groves Deming published a new version of the periodic table with this many columns, in order to accomodate all valence electron possibilities for s, p, and d orbitals.
periodic table of the elements
Dmitri Mendeleev
18 &lt;McMaken&gt;
This kingdom is a paraphyletic taxon, because its stem species evolved several times independently. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom of small eukaryotes, which includes amoebae and red-tide-causing dinoflagellates.
The largest protist is this stramenopile commonly known as giant kelp. Its name refers to the presence of the pigment fucoxanthin.
These other stramenopiles are best known for their bilaterally-symmetric, rigid cell walls made of silica. Their high lipid metabolism makes them an excellent candidate for biofuel sources.
Protista
brown algae
diatoms &lt;McMaken&gt;
Galaxy clusters are among the largest stable and gravitationally bound structures in the universe. For 10 points each:
Name this galaxy group to which the Milky Way belongs. The center of this group is located between the Milky Way and the largest member of the group, Andromeda.
The mass of galactic clusters can be determined by measuring the cluster’s thermal bremsstrahlung [“BREM-strah-lung”] in this high energy part of the spectrum. The Chandra Observatory takes images in this part of the spectrum—as do dentists.
X-ray mass determination assumes that the clusters can be described this term. Systems described by this word are in gravitational equilibrium and have potential energy equal to twice the negative of internal kinetic energy.
local group
X-ray
virialized (accept word forms) &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the wave nature of light.
Name this experiment first performed by Thomas Young. In it, the namesake construction can be used to produce an interference pattern, illustrating the wave nature of light.
One can classically model the outcome of the double-slit experiment using the principle named for this Dutch scientist, which states that each point on a wavefront can be treated as a source of spherical wavelets.
According to this variant of the double-slit experiment, one can record the path of each photon, removing the interference pattern, and then destroy the path information to get the interference back again.
double-slit experiment (prompt on Young’s slit experiment or Young’s interference experiment)
Christiaan Huygens
quantum eraser experiment &lt;Yue&gt;
Ziegler–Natta catalysts can be used in this type of reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this type of reaction which comes in “living,” ring-opening, and radical varieties among others. This type of reaction can also come in chain-growth and step-growth varieties.
Polyethylene glycol is prepared by mixing the simplest type of this compound with ethylene glycol and a catalyst. These ring strained compounds can be cross-linked with various nucleophiles to form their namesake resins.
Thermal properties of polymers can be analyzed with the differential scanning variety of this technique. Another variety of this technique is the bomb type which has a constant volume, and it can be simply performed with a coffee cup.
polymerizations
epoxide (accept epoxy)
calorimetry (accept calorimeter) &lt;K. Li/Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the digestive system.
This longest portion of the digestive system is responsible for most nutrient absorption. This organ is mildly alkaline as a result of secretions it receives through the pancreatic duct.
The small intestine maximizes nutrient absorption efficiency with these tiny finger-like protrusions found on the apical surface of enterocytes. The cytoplasmic extensions form a brush border in the intestine.
These regions in the small intestine contain M cells which lack microvilli. The M cells in these lymphoid regions attract enteric pathogens and pass antigens to dendritic cells contained within these regions.
small intestine (prompt on intestine; do NOT accept “large intestine”)
microvilli (do NOT accept or prompt on “villi”)
Peyer’s patches (accept aggregated lymphoid nodules; or PP; prompt on partial answer) &lt;K. Li&gt;
Recent research by scientists in Australia suggests that plants have the ability to hear. For 10 points each:
That research was conducted using this plant, a genus of rockcress. It’s frequently used as a model organism, especially in studies of non-Mendelian inheritance.
Gagliano and her team found that this part of the plant grew towards the vibrations of water running through a pipe. Arabidopsis has the tap type of this organ, and in general in plants, this organ draws water and nutrients from the soil.
This term describes the purposeful growth of a plant in response to stimulus. Its “thigmo” variety describes a plant’s growth in response to touch.
Arabidopsis thaliana (or A. thaliana)
root
tropism (accept word forms) &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about palladium:
Palladium catalyzes this cross-coupling reaction that joins an unsaturated halide and an alkene in the presence of a base. Its namesake won the 2010 Nobel Prize with two Japanese chemists.
Palladium is oxidized to this oxidation state in the Heck reaction as well as its other cross-coupling reactions. This is the preferred oxidation state of zinc and the alkaline earth metals.
Palladium deposited on calcium carbonate, the Lindlar catalyst, can be used to react this gas with ethene to produce ethane. The electrolysis of water produces oxygen and this other, lightest diatomic gas.
Mizoroki–Heck reaction
+2 (accept equivalents, prompt on 2)
hydrogen gas (accept H2) &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about simplifying calculations in physics:
The reduced form of this quantity allows one to perform calculations on a two-body problem as if it were a one-body problem. It is calculated by taking half of the harmonic mean of two values for this quantity.
Reduced mass is represented with this Greek letter which also represents the coefficient of friction.
Like reduced mass, the effective value for this quantity in a parallel circuit can be found by taking the reciprocal of the sum of reciprocals.
mass
μ (or mu)
resistance &lt;K. Li&gt;
This quantity is defined as the negative sum of probabilities times the base-2 log of those probabilities. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity determining the minimal number of bits needed for encoding a data source on average, often denoted with a capital H.
Information entropy provides a mathematical limit on the lossless variety of this operation. Zipping a file performs this operation, which reduces file size.
In contrast, an example of lossy data compression is this file format used for digital audio, which is formally known as either MPEG-1 and MPEG-2.
information entropy (or Shannon entropy)
data compression
MP3 (accept .mp3; prompt on MPEG-2.5) &lt;Yue&gt;
Till is the name for unsorted sediment originating from erosion caused by these things. For 10 points each:
Name these large mobile ice sheets, whose feats of erosion are also thought to have formed the Great Lakes.
The accumulation of glacial till creates these landforms, an example of which is the Giant’s Wall in Norway. The terminal variety of this landform marks the maximum advance of a glacier.
This is the term for the the rise of land masses after the lifting of glacial weight.
glacier
moraine
isostatic rebound (accept post-glacial rebound or crustal rebound; prompt on rebound or isostasy) &lt;Duffy&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the physics and mathematics of density functional theory, or DFT.
DFT is a computational method to solve an equation named for this scientist which has time-independent and time-dependent varieties. Without observation, it is unclear whether this scientist’s theoretical cat is dead or alive.
Due to the antisymmetry under exchange of many-electron wavefunctions, examples of this quantity named for Slater are used to represent them in DFT. These quantities, which are only defined for square matrices, can be computed by expansion by minors.
The meta-GGA functional contains a term involving an operator named after this French scientist, equivalent to the divergence of the curl. Expansion by minors is also known as this man’s expansion.
Schrödinger equation
determinant
Pierre-Simon Laplace &lt;K. Li/Yue&gt;
The “ionization” variety of these devices is the most well known, though they also have a photoelectric variety. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that monitor the ionization current resulting from the decay of the 241 isotope of americium. The United States Fire Administration recommends testing them once per month.
Smoke detectors work because americium-241 gives off this type of radiation that cannot penetrate smoke. This type of radiation consists of helium nuclei, and atoms lose mass when they emit it.
This is the most common oxidation state for americium. A solution of vanadium in this oxidation state is green, and the carbon in a carboxylic acid has this oxidation state.
smoke detectors (accept obvious equivalents; prompt on fire alarms and obvious equivalents)
alpha radiation
+3 &lt;K. Li&gt;
To determine this quantity everywhere for a point charge above a conducting plane, one might symmetrically place an equivalent “image charge” below the conducting plane. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity which in high-symmetry electrostatic problems can be solved via the method of images, since a solution for this quantity, obtained by solving Laplace’s equation, must be unique.
In addition to being upright, images produced by a convex mirror are always of this type, in contrast to real images. A convex lens gives an image of this type as long as the object is placed within the focal length of the lens.
Images taken from the scanning electron and scanning tunneling varieties of this laboratory technique can visualize systems at the micro- and nanoscale.
electric potential (accept scalar potential or voltage)
virtual image
microscopy (accept word forms) &lt;Yue&gt;
Protein tags help biologists to purify and identify proteins. For 10 points each:
Name this essential amino acid with an imidazole side chain. Six consecutive iterations of this amino acid make up this common protein tag which can be purified with Ni-NTA [“NIN-ta”] beads.
Following binding to Ni-NTA beads, His-tagged proteins can be isolated with the affinity type of this technique in which a competitive solvent elutes the proteins from the stationary phase.
Proteins with a his-tag can also be purified with these Y-shaped proteins. As part of the immune response system, these proteins bind specifically to an antigen unique to each type of these proteins.
histidine
affinity chromatography
antibody (accept immunoglobulin) &lt;K. Li&gt;
Taking the symmetric difference of two sets yields the same result as applying this operation to them if and only if those sets are disjoint. For 10 points each:
Name this foundational operation in set theory, often contrasted with intersection. When applied to a group of sets, this operation yields the set of all elements in that combined group.
This German mathematician invented set theory. His namesake “diagonalization” argument proved that there does not exist any surjection between any countable set and its power set.
Russell’s paradox highlights the flaws in naive set theory by considering the set of all sets denoted by this adjective. In group theory, a subgroup has this property if it is invariant under conjugation.
union
Georg Cantor
normal &lt;R. Li&gt;
Computers have become vital tools to model and solve physical systems. For 10 points each, answer some questions about numerical methods.
Performing this task numerically is sometimes known as quadrature, and Monte Carlo and Simpson’s rule algorithms perform this task by finding the area under a curve. It can be thought of as the reverse of differentiation.
With Isaac Newton, this scientist names an algorithm to solve non-linear least-squares problems, and also names a common quadrature method. He also names the normal distribution.
Many numerical methods to solve partial differential equations using a meshed geometry begin with this adjective. Examples of such methods include the [this adjective] Element Method and the [this adjective] Volume Method.
numerical integration (prompt on antidifferentiation)
Carl Friedrich Gauss
finite &lt;Yue&gt;
Lice are unpleasant to have. For 10 points each, answer some questions about methods to control their spread:
Lice were historically targeted with this widely-banned non-pyrethroid insecticide. It functions by opening sodium channels, causing continuous neural firing accompanied by the inability to control muscular contractions.
The sklice medication contains the compound ivermectin [“EYE-ver-MECK-ten”], which causes death by binding to chloride channels gated by this neurotransmitter. This neurotransmitter is by far the most abundant neurotransmitter in the human brain, and is a precursor to GABA.
Unlike the chemical mechanisms of most insecticides, silicone-based oils prevent lice from expelling this liquid eventually leading to rupture from osmotic stress. This compound freezes into ice at 0 degrees Celsius.
DDT (or dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane)
glutamate (accept glutamic acid)
water &lt;K. Li&gt;
Answer some questions about how you might edit a photograph in post-processing, for 10 points each:
If you’re posting the photo to Instagram, you may add one of these adjustments that differentially modifies tones in the image, often to create certain moods. Examples on Instagram include Clarendon and Gingham.
If your photo is too dark, you may want to increase the exposure by one or two of these units, each of which represents a doubling of the amount of light. When preceded by the letter “f”, this four-letter term denotes the size of the lens aperture.
More selective edits can be made by using a brush tool to selectively brighten areas of the image in this technique. When combined with “burning,” or selective darkening, it can add contrast to the photograph.
filters
stops (accept f-stops)
dodge (accept word forms; accept dodge and burn) &lt;Chu&gt;
Even rocks can fold under pressure. For 10 points each, answer these questions about geologic folds:
Name these large geologic depressions that are formed when rock strata fold and dip towards the center from all directions. A system of watersheds in the western United States is called the “Great” one of these structures.
Large collections of geologic folds can comprise the “belts” named for this process in which mountain ranges form. Its name is Greek for “mountain creation.”
This is the term for a geologic fold in which the rock strata dip downwards towards the axial plane.
basin (accept Great Basin)
orogeny (accept word forms)
syncline &lt;Duffy&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the French physicist Léon Brillouin.
Brillouin zones are used to describe the reciprocal space corresponding to these highly ordered solids. They can be described by Miller indices and feature a namesake lattice.
Crystal lattice waves interacting with electromagnetic waves results in Brillouin scattering, similar to this other scientist’s namesake elastic scattering, which causes the sky to appear blue.
Brillouin also partially names the WKB approximation, which can calculate the rate of this process through an arbitrary potential barrier. This process occurs when the energy of the wavefunction is lower than the potential barrier.
crystals
John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh [“RAY-lee”] (accept either underlined part)
quantum tunneling (accept word forms) &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about photochemistry:
Photochemical reactions are initiated by energy delivered by these massless particles. These particles travel at the speed of light and are absorbed by the reactants in a photochemical reaction.
This protein complex involved in photosynthesis absorbs light most strongly at 700 nanometers. This protein complex contains phylloquinone and ferredoxin.
In the atmosphere, a photochemical reaction involving these greenhouse gasses converts ozone into molecular oxygen through a free radical mechanism. These chemicals were phased out following the Montreal Protocol.
photons
photosystem I (or PS I; do NOT accept “photosystem II”)
chlorofluorocarbons (or CFC) &lt;K. Li&gt;
A major goal in the field of organic chemistry is to develop reactions that are enantioselective <strong>[“en-AN-tee-oh-se-LEK-tiv”]</strong>, meaning only one enantiomer <strong>[“en-AN-tee-oh-mer”]</strong> of a product with this property is produced. For 10 points each:
Name this property of compounds that are not superimposable on their mirror images. This word comes from the Greek word for “hand.”
Many chiral compounds have an asymmetric atom of this element at a chiral center. This element commonly forms four bonds with tetrahedral geometry and is the basis for all organic chemistry.
Unfortunately, enantioselective synthesis of this drug would not have eliminated its harmful effects because the body readily interconverts the teratogenic [“teh-rah-toh-GEN-ic”] (S)-enantiomer and the sedative (R)-enantiomer in vivo.
chirality (accept word forms; prompt on anything including mirror like “mirror image”)
carbon
thalidomide (accept Contergan) &lt;K. Li&gt;
This property’s inversion amounts to a point reflection, and it is negative for a pion. For 10 points each:
Name this property. This property, the “P” in CP-symmetry, is violated by the weak interaction. A property with the same name denotes whether a number is even or odd.
This female Chinese scientist conducted the 1956 experiment proposed by Lee and Yang that observed parity violation in cobalt-60 atom decay, establishing parity violation in the weak interaction.
The winners of the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics derived a theory that combined the weak interaction with this other fundamental force, whose namesake “spectrum” of radiation ranges from radio waves to gamma rays.
parity
Chien-Shiung Wu
electromagnetic interaction (or electromagnetism) &lt;Yue&gt;
This number can be generalized for any two commensurable real numbers by evaluating Thomae’s function at their ratio and multiplying by the denominator. For 10 points each:
Identify this number, which is equal to 1 if two integers are relatively prime. For any two integers, this number is defined as the largest positive integer that divides both of them.
This mathematician’s namesake algorithm can be used to find the greatest common divisor of two integers. A theorem named for this man and Leonhard Euler [“OY-ler”] asserts that every even perfect number is equal to the product of a power of 2 with a Mersenne prime.
In number theory, this adjective denotes a namesake “remainder” theorem with widespread applications in cryptography. This adjective partly names a thought experiment in which a computer is able to translate a certain language without truly understanding it.
greatest common divisor (or gcd; or greatest common factor; or gcf)
Euclid
Chinese &lt;R. Li&gt;
The Great British show about this activity has signature, technical, and showstopper challenges, and the “blind” version of this process is used to make pie. For 10 points each:
Name this activity in which food is cooked in an oven. People make breads, cakes, and cookies by doing this activity.
Examples of this type of baked good include croissants, Danishes, and éclairs. The dough used to make this type of baked good comes in filo [“FEE-low”], shortcrust, and puff types.
Croissants, Danishes, and puff pastry all have this property, meaning that they are made by alternating layers of dough and solid fat. The fat melts during baking, causing the layers of dough to rise and become flaky.
baking (accept word forms)
pastry (or pastries; or patisserie)
laminations (or laminated dough) &lt;Murton&gt;
This bonus is about bones. For 10 points each, answer some questions about these calcium packed organs.
Name these bones that surround the spinal cord and are separated by cushioning discs of cartilage. Humans have 33 of these bones which come in cervical [“SUR-vik-uhl”], thoracic [“thor-AS-ick”], lumbar, and sacral varieties.
Vertebrae and the pelvis are bones that commonly break in patients with this disease which can develop when osteoblasts overproduce RANKL [“RANK-EL”], resulting in depletion of bone density.
This hormone also causes bone density to drop. This hormone is secreted by their namesake gland in response to low blood calcium levels.
vertebrae (accept word forms; prompt on back bone)
osteoporosis
parathyroid hormone (accept PTH) &lt;K. Li&gt;
In 2006, an invisibility cloak was made from one of these materials arranged in a series of concentric circles. For 10 points each:
Name these engineered materials which can be made to interact non-naturally with electromagnetic waves and have such properties as a negative refractive index.
Acoustic metamaterials can manipulate sound due to modifications of this type of “modulus,” a measure of resistance to compression. Its inverse gives the compressibility.
Lenses derived from metamaterials can resolve images beyond the “limit” named for this optical phenomenon. This phenomenon is the bending of light as it passes through a slit or around an obstacle.
metamaterials
bulk modulus
diffraction &lt;Yue&gt;
This program was initiated to take advantage of a favorable alignment of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. For 10 points each:
Name this planetary exploration program that launched two probes in 1977. In 2012, the first of these probes became the first man-made object to leave the Solar System and enter interstellar medium.
The two Voyager probes notably missed this object that was reclassified as a dwarf planet in 2006. NASA’s New Horizons flew by this object in 2015.
The first two man-made objects to leave the Solar System were the tenth and eleventh probes of this unmanned, planetary exploration program. The probes flew by Jupiter in 1972 and 1973 respectively.
Voyager program (accept Voyager 1 or Voyager 2)
Pluto
Pioneer program (accept Pioneer 10 or Pioneer 11) &lt;Suh&gt;
The Sackur–Tetrode equation gives the entropy of these materials, whose kinetic energy per molecule is three-halves R T. For 10 points each:
Name this type of gas with no intermolecular forces and no particle volume, described by the equation of state PV = nRT [“P V equals n R T”].
This equation named for a Dutch scientist modifies the ideal gas law by adding a factor proportional to the square of the number density to pressure and subtracting a factor to account for particle volume.
This quantity is the left-hand side of the virial equation of state for real gases and is denoted “Z.” For ideal gases, it’s equal to one.
ideal gases
van der Waals equation
compressibility factor (do NOT accept or prompt on “compressibility”) &lt;Yue&gt;
The most recent recipient of this scientist’s namesake award is Detlef Wiegel. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist whose study of variegated cobs led to the discovery of “mobile genetic elements,” or transposons.
Another winner of the McClintock Prize is Susan Wessler, whose research group discovered MITEs in Oryza sativa, the scientific name for this staple crop. Some varieties of this foodstuff you might recognize include golden, jasmine, and basmati.
McClintock also discovered the breakage–fusion–bridge mechanisms for the instability of these structures, whose “territories” can be visualized using fluorescence in situ hybridization.
Barbara McClintock
rice
chromosomes &lt;Park&gt;
Determining chemical structures is difficult. For 10 points each:
Name this technique which can detect spin flips in atoms with an odd atomic mass. The results of this technique are reported in terms of chemical shift.
It’s not carbon-13, but this particle names the most common type of NMR. This positively charged particle is the hydrogen nucleus.
This compound is used in a namesake “shake” to confirm the presence of exchangeable protons such as in alcohols or amines during proton NMR. This compound is used in nuclear reactors because it is better at slowing down neutrons than its non-deuterated counterpart.
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (or NMR)
proton NMR (accept H1 NMR)
heavy water (accept deuterium oxide; accept D2O) &lt;K. Li&gt;
Digital obsolescence caused by rapid evolution of the computer industry threatens the future of data recall. For 10 points each:
Name this Microsoft program used to create and edit text documents. Files created from the 1.0 version of this program cannot be opened by the 16.0 version that comes with Office 2016.
Similar to obsolescence, this phenomenon also causes data to become irretrievable. It results from the gradual breakdown of physical storage media, such as when CDs become scratched.
This primitive storage media can quite literally rot. These paper devices, which hold information in the pattern of their holes, were rendered obsolete by magnetic tape in the 1960s.
Microsoft Word
data rot (or data degradation)
punch cards &lt;K. Li&gt;
Scientists are still not quite sure if these things count as living. For 10 points each:
Name these tiny bundles of genetic material surrounded by a protein capsid which must hijack a host cell’s machinery to reproduce. They cause the flu and colds.
This process provides viral immunity for eukaryotes just as the CRISPR [“CRIS-per”] system does in prokaryotes. During this process, miRNA and siRNA prevent a complementary strand of mRNA from being translated into product.
RNAi was discovered in this microscopic model organism, a transparent nematode that was the first multicellular organism to have its genome sequenced.
viruses
RNA interference (or RNAi)
Caenorhabditis elegans (needs both underlined parts) &lt;K. Li&gt;
Taking the limit as the Reynolds number goes to 0 in equations partially named for this scientist results in his namesake “creeping” flow. For 10 points each,
Name this Irish scientist that names a set of unsolved equations describing fluid flow along with a Frenchman.
By Stokes’s law, the drag force in Stokes flow is directly proportional to this quantity, a measure of a fluid’s resistance to flow.
Under Stokes flow, the Laplacian of this quantity, defined as the curl of the flow velocity and denoted with a lowercase omega, is zero. This quantity’s namesake equation can be derived from the Navier–Stokes equation for angular momentum conservation.
Sir George Stokes, 1st Baronet
viscosity (accept dynamic or kinematic viscosity)
vorticity &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about protein aggregates:
Prion based diseases, when inherited, are transmitted in this simple genetic manner. Unlike recessive inheritance, this type of inheritance results in the phenotype even when only one allele is present.
Some neurodegenerative disorders have been attributed to aggregates with this name. The beta type of this protein has been linked to Alzheimer’s disease.
Amyloid aggregates often form due to the hydrophobic effect which maximizes this thermodynamic quantity. By decreasing surface area, the ordered water molecules are free to move, thus increasing this quantity.
dominant
amyloid (prompt on plaque)
entropy &lt;K. Li&gt;
If I roll two dice, the probability that one dice lands on 6 does not depend on the probability that the other dice lands on 6. For 10 points each:
This is because each die roll has this property relative to the other rolls. Events with this characteristic have a joint probability equal to the product of the individual probabilities, in contrast to dependent events.
If events are not independent, this theorem may be used. It states that the probability of A given B is equal to the probability of B given A times the probability of A over the probability of B.
Bayes’ rule can be used to solve this problem, which comes from a game show. In it, there are three doors and one prize, and the host opens a door with no prize, after which the player must decide whether to switch their choice.
independent
Bayes’ rule
Monty Hall problem &lt;Huang&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions related to carbohydrates.
Type 1 diabetes is caused by the failure to produce this hormone, and type 2 diabetes arises when cells become resistant to it. This peptide hormone is required for glucose to enter the cell.
This number describes the effect that a food has on blood glucose concentration. Foods with a high value for this measure cause a rapid spike in glucose and insulin concentrations, thus increasing the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Unlike glucose, this ketose has a low glycemic index. Table sugar, also known as sucrose, consists of this carbohydrate bonded to glucose.
insulin
glycemic index (accept glycemic load)
fructose &lt;K. Li&gt;
Answer some questions related to the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, for 10 points each:
Werner Heisenberg, who formulated the Copenhagen interpretation with Niels Bohr, names a principle known by this term. This principle states that both position and momentum can not be known precisely.
This other principle states that multiple quantum states of an object can be added together to form another valid state. In the Copenhagen interpretation, upon measurement, the linear combination of states collapses and only one state is observed.
A photon can be described as having a superposition of two types of this property. Those two types of this property are the R and L states which correspond to being right or left handed with respect to this property.
uncertainty principle (accept word forms)
the principle of superposition
polarization (accept circular polarization) &lt;K. Li/Yue&gt;
The scientist that names this quantity showed that osmotic pressure was proportional to molarity of solute. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, symbolized i, which is 1 for most non-electrolytes and is ideally equal to the number of ions in a formula unit for ionic compounds.
Van’t Hoff also names an equation relating temperature, equilibrium constant, and this quantity for a reaction. The temperature derivative of this quantity gives the constant-pressure heat capacity.
This type of reaction occurs when the reaction enthalpy is negative. A positive slope on a van’t Hoff plot indicates that the reaction is this type of reaction which releases energy rather than absorbing it.
van’t Hoff factor
enthalpy (prompt on H)
exothermic &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about fundamental values in electromagnetism.
Name this scientist known for his inverse square law describing the force between two charged particles. This scientist also names the unit for electric charge and invented the torsion balance to measure electrostatic forces.
This experiment was the first determination of the elementary charge. During this experiment, droplets of the namesake liquid were sprayed into a uniform electric field and made to float in a uniform electric field.
The square of the elementary charge is proportional to this other fundamental constant. This small dimensionless number is the coupling constant of the electromagnetic force.
Charles-Augustin de Coulomb
oil drop experiment by Robert Millikan and Harvey Fletcher (prompt on just Milikan experiment)
fine-structure constant (or Sommerfeld’s constant) &lt;K. Li&gt;
You are an aspiring microbiologist. Answer some questions about bacteria, for 10 points each.
A species in the genus Serratia has been found to cause white pox disease in the elkhorn variety of this sedentary animal that can harbor zooxanthellae [“zoo-uh-zan-theh-lay”].
The genus Vibrio contains species that causes coral bleaching and produces prodigiosin, but is best known for this other infectious disease causing species. The disease caused by this species in Vibrio is accompanied by severe diarrhea.
Both Serratia and Vibrio are facultative anaerobes, meaning that they will respire aerobically in the presence of this element and will respire anaerobically in its absence. This is the second most common gas in the atmosphere after nitrogen.
coral
cholera (or Vibrio cholerae)
oxygen &lt;K. Li&gt;
The Butler–Volmer equation simplifies to this equation when net reaction rate is set to zero. For 10 points each:
Name this equation which multiplies the logarithm of the reaction quotient by a factor containing the ideal gas constant, temperature, and Faraday constant. This equation is used to calculate the EMF of a cell at non-standard conditions.
The Nernst equation relates potentials named for this type of reaction. This reaction involves a gain of electrons, and it’s the opposite of oxidation.
The standard hydrogen electrode is made of this non-palladium precious metal. It is coated in the powdered black variety of that same element which increases surface area of the electrode.
Nernst equation
reduction (do NOT accept or prompt on “redox”)
platinum &lt;Yue/K. Li&gt;
Name some things related to parallel computing, for 10 points each:
This task can be parallelized by splitting the input, recursively running an algorithm on each part, and then “merging” the results. Named algorithms for this general task of ordering an input include the “bubble,” “quick,” and “insert” types.
This law states that the number of transistors on computer chips will double every two years. Parallel computing may help resolve the fundamental physical limits that will challenge this law’s continued growth in coming decades.
To implement parallelization in C, you might use multiple “pthreads” [“pee-threads”]. The “p” in “pthreads” stands not for “parallel,” but for this “portable” operating systems standard based on UNIX systems.
sorting
Moore’s law
POSIX (or Portable Operating System Interface for uni-X) &lt;Deutsch&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about mercury, both lowercase and uppercase M:
This mercury-containing chemical is an effective bactericidal and anti-fungal agent. At the concentrations at which it is found in vaccines as a preservative, this compound does not pose any risks to health.
A classic test of general relativity involves measuring the rate of this motion for Mercury’s perihelion. In astronomy, this term refers to the change in change in an object’s rotational and/or orbital patterns, and it’s classically better stated as a change in the rotating axis of a rotating body.
The British Mercury machine was a rotor machine that implemented this type of algorithm used to perform encryption. The most basic type of these algorithms is the simple substitution variety, which converts all instances of a character to another. Famous examples of these algorithms are named after Caesar and Playfair.
thiomersal (or thimerosal)
precession
cipher (prompt on code and word forms) &lt;K. Li&gt;
The transmission coefficient featuring in this equation is commonly assumed to be 1, although taking a ratio with the rate constant at a reference temperature can eliminate it. For 10 points each:
Give this equation that gives the relationship between Gibbs free energy and reaction rate constant, which replaces the Arrhenius equation’s pre-exponential factor with a factor explicitly proportional to absolute temperature.
In contrast to the Eyring equation, the Arrhenius equation relates the rate constant with this energy symbolized E-a, the minimum energy needed for a reaction to occur.
The Eyring equation factor scales temperature by the transmission coefficient, Planck’s constant, and a constant named for this scientist, who names a velocity distribution with Maxwell.
Eyring–Polanyi equation (accept either name)
activation energy
Ludwig Boltzmann &lt;Yue&gt;
This quantity is crossed with linear momentum in the Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, symbolized L, whose conservation can be used to prove Kepler’s second law. It shouldn’t be confused with its linear analogue, which is mass times velocity.
The Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector is also proportional to this measure of deviation from a circular orbit which has values from 0 to 1 for elliptical orbits. This value is 0 for circles and greater than 1 for hyperbolas.
In an orbiting gravitational three-body system, there are five points named for this scientist where the net force on a small object provides enough centripetal force for it to remain stationary with respect to the other two bodies.
angular momentum (do NOT accept or prompt on partial answer)
eccentricity
Joseph-Louis Lagrange &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about electroencephalography, or EEG.
EEG records the electrical activity of this organ at the center of the nervous system.
EEG measures electrical activity in the brain, but it is limited to this outermost layer of gray matter. This region of the brain is where most information processing occurs and is named after the Latin word for bank.
One disadvantage of EEG is the difficulty with which signals from these cortical grooves can be detected. These depressions in the cerebral cortex are formed through gyrification and are not found in the brains of mice.
brain
cerebral cortex
sulci (accept sulcus or fissure) &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about azeotropes:
Azeotropes are mixtures of liquids that cannot be easily separated by this process. This process involves heating a mixture up and selectively condensing out its components based on boiling point and can be used to purify water.
Azeotropes form due to deviations from this law. This law states that the vapor pressure of a mixture is equal to the weighted average of the vapor pressure of its components.
This material with small pores of uniform size can be used to break an azeotrope. They work by adsorbing the smaller component of the azeotrope and are commonly used to remove water from a mixture.
distillation
Raoult’s law
molecular sieve &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points, answer the following about topological surfaces.
Name this nonorientable surface which has only one boundary and one side. It is frequently modeled by twisting one end of a strip of paper and connecting it to the other.
This surface can be defined as the Cartesian product of two circles. An oft-quoted joke claims that a mathematician cannot tell the difference between a coffee cup and this surface, as they are topologically homotopic.
This surface’s namesake “eversion” consists of turning this surface inside out in three-dimensional space. The volume element in this surface’s namesake coordinate system is given by “r-squared sine theta d-r d-theta d-phi.”
Möbius strip
torus (prompt on donut)
sphere &lt;R. Li&gt;
Answer some questions about the mathematics of diffusion, for 10 points each.
The motion of a diffusing molecule can be modeled by a stochastic process named for a walk with this property. If a variable has this property, its value is based on chance, and slot machines generate numbers with this property.
The displacement after some number of steps in the one-dimensional random walk follows this distribution. For a large number of trials, this distribution can be well-approximated by the Poisson distribution.
Diffusion is modeled as a Gaussian random walk with this quantity increasing proportional to the square root of time. This quantity, also the root mean square displacement in diffusion, measures spread and is the square root of variance.
random (accept word forms; accept random walk)
binomial distribution
standard deviation (accept root mean square displacement before mention; prompt on sigma) &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the antibiotic colistin.
Colistin is effective in treating this condition when it is caused by the most infamous species in the genus Klebsiella. This condition causes inflammation in the alveoli and is commonly diagnosed via X-ray imaging.
Colistin is a cyclic polypeptide antibiotic containing six of this amino acid. Like lysine, this amino acid cannot be used for gluconeogenesis.
The main reason colistin is rarely used is because it is toxic to this organ. Colistin causes cells in this organ to burst, hindering its ability to filter blood, regulate fluid levels, and excrete waste products into urine.
pneumonia
leucine
kidney &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about double Nobel laureate John Bardeen.
Name this circuit component invented by Bardeen, for which he won his first Nobel prize. These semiconductor devices are found in integrated circuits and are often made out of silicon or germanium.
Bardeen shared his second Nobel prize for the formulation of this theory that describes how Cooper pairs can condense at low temperatures such that they behave like a boson.
BCS theory is helpful in explaining the behavior of these materials. They expel magnetic fields in the Meissner effect, and liquid helium is often used as a coolant for them due to the helium’s very low temperature.
transistors
BCS theory (accept Bardeen–Cooper–Schrieffer theory)
superconductors (accept word forms; do NOT accept or prompt on just “conductor”) &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the central dogma of biology.
This process, performed by ribosomes, turns mRNA into protein and follows transcription.
These mRNA sequences signal an end to peptide production. They normally come in amber, ochre, and opal varieties, and a mnemonic to remember their sequences is “U Are Annoying, U Are Gross, U Go Away.”
These proteins assist in protein folding by providing a compact and sheltered environment in which proteins can properly assume their tertiary structure.
translation
stop codon (prompt on codon)
molecular chaperone (accept chaperonin) &lt;K. Li&gt;
Though Harvard memorabilia is often maroon, the school’s color is actually Crimson, a shade of red. For 10 points each, answer some questions about the color red:
The process of producing this metal’s oxide leaves behind red mud, a highly alkaline waste product filled with iron. This element is found in a powerful reagent that can reduce carboxylic acids to alcohols.
A red ribbon is the symbol for a disease caused by this retrovirus, which leads to AIDS.
The MBTA Red Line, which runs through Harvard Square, is powered by a third rail running with this type of current which carries a constant voltage. The high voltage variety of this type of current is highly effective at transmitting power over long distances.
aluminum
human immunodeficiency virus (or HIV)
direct current (or DC) &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about a pioneer in nuclear chemistry.
This scientist was the first person to win two Nobel Prizes, the first in conjunction with Henri Becquerel and her husband Pierre for their research on radioactivity.
Curie received her second Nobel Prize for discovering two new elements and describing their properties. Name either of these elements.
To isolate radium from pitchblende, Curie used the fractional form of this technique which exploits the different solubilities of the chloride salts of radium and barium. In general, this technique allows one to precipitate and remove specific compounds from a solution.
Marie Curie (or Maria Salomea Skłodowska)
radium OR polonium
recrystallization (accept differential crystallization; accept fractional crystallization) &lt;K. Li&gt;
Berlin and Kay posit that words for different types of this property are added to languages in a predictable order, and Chomsky wrote that ideas lacking this property “sleep furiously.” For 10 points each:
Name this concept, examples of which include rojo [“ROH-ho”] in Spanish, vert [“vair”] in French, and “yellow” and “green” in English.
Homer’s use of the phrase “wine-dark” indicates that Ancient Greek may not have had a word for this color. Japanese considers both this “cool” color and green to be shades of ao.
In this psychological effect, people are slower to name the color of ink when it is used to write the term for a different color.
colors
blue
Stroop effect (or Stroop task) &lt;Murton&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about lichen.
Lichens act as this kind of species that respond sensitively to environmental changes, similar to the behavior of a canary in a coal mine.
Lichen embody this type of relationship in which a pair of interacting organisms benefit. This type of relationship also occurs between fungi and plants in mycorrhizae.
Some lichen have even been found to harbor these organisms. These organisms reproduce by growing projections called schmoos, and certain species have a and alpha mating types.
indicator species (or bioindicator)
mutualism (accept word forms; prompt on symbiosis)
yeast (anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on Saccharomyces cerevisiae) &lt;K. Li&gt;
This experiment was originally proposed by geologist John Michell and involved two small lead spheres attached to ends of a wooden rod. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment which measured the torsion coefficient of the wire after larger lead spheres were attracted to the aforementioned spheres, named for the British scientist who conducted it in 1798.
The Cavendish experiment determined this constant which features as the constant of proportionality in Newton’s law of gravitation.
Big G is used along with other fundamental constants to define this system of units. Many of the base units in this system are limits beyond which quantum gravity must be invoked.
the Cavendish experiment (accept any answer naming Henry Cavendish)
gravitational constant (accept big G; prompt on just G; do NOT accept or prompt on “little g”)
Planck units &lt;Yue&gt;
KIC 8462852, known affectionately as the WTF star, continues to stymie scientists with its peculiarities. For 10 points each:
The WTF star is in the constellation Cygnus, which also contains a strong X-ray source that was the first one of these objects to be widely confirmed. These objects are bounded by an event horizon beyond which not even light can escape.
WTF technically stands for “Where’s the Flux?” Flux is a measurement commonly reported in this SI unit for power.
One of these structures has been (far-fetchedly) proposed as an explanation for the WTF star’s unusual variability. This structure would surround the star and transfer the energy released by the star to the planets.
black holes
watt
Dyson sphere &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer questions about a common lab technique used to separate or purify compounds.
This technique exploits solubility differences of a compound in different substances. This “extraction” technique isolates compounds by removing them from a mixture, or by washing a compound to remove impurities from the mixture.
This is the term for the liquid in which another compound, called the solute, is dissolved. Water is often called the “universal” type of this compound, as in its use in liquid–liquid extractions.
Another common solvent in liquid–liquid extractions is the “diethyl” compound of this type. In compounds featuring this functional group, two other groups are bridged by an oxygen atom.
liquid–liquid extraction (accept partitioning)
solvent
ether &lt;K. Li&gt;
Difficulty performing this action is called dysphagia <strong>[“dis-FAY-zha”]</strong>, and may require patients to drink thickened liquids to prevent aspiration. For 10 points each:
Name this action that uses oral, pharyngeal, and esophageal phases to move food or drink through the mouth into the stomach.
The goal of swallowing is to direct food into the esophagus, rather than this rigid, ringed tube that sends air to the lungs.
This cartilage flap points up at rest but folds down during swallowing to cover and protect the airway. In infants, it projects higher up into the throat than in adults, allowing them to drink and breathe at the same time.
swallowing (or deglutition; accept word forms)
trachea (or windpipe)
epiglottis &lt;Murton&gt;
Commonly used as a household cleaner, borax has recently gained popularity in slime recipes. For 10 points each:
Name this triel [“TREE-el”] element at the center of the anion in borax. This metalloid lies above aluminum on the periodic table and has atomic symbol “B.”
The borate ion forms hydrogen bonds to cross-link glue polymers in slime. Similarly, the borate ion is thought to have stabilized this aldopentose [“AL-doh-PEN-toes”], leading it to become the first sugar component in nucleic acids.
DBBT is one type of this compound which is used to activate carbonyls for enolization. Another type of this compound with trigonal planar geometry is aluminum chloride which is commonly used to catalyze the Friedel–Crafts reaction.
boron
ribose
Lewis acid (prompt on partial answers; do NOT accept or prompt on “Arrhenius acid,” “Bronsted acid,” or any answer containing “base”) &lt;K. Li&gt;
This quantity is halved in the coefficient of the quadratic term in a second-order Taylor approximation. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity whose sign is related to the curvature of a function through the “concavity test.” For a position function, this quantity at any specific point in time represents instantaneous acceleration.
This square matrix contains the second partial derivatives of a scalar field. A sufficient condition for classifying saddle points is met if this matrix’s eigenvalues are both positive and negative.
If the second partial derivatives are continuous at some point, then Schwarz’s theorem asserts that the differential operators at that point have this property. It’s not associativity or distributivity, but an illustration of this property with integer multiplication is “3 times 4 equals 4 times 3.”
the second derivative (or double derivative; do NOT accept or prompt on just “derivative”)
Hessian
commutativity (accept word forms) &lt;R. Li&gt;
This versatile drug may soon be used to combat cancer. For 10 points each:
Name this pain reliever that can also lower the risk of heart attacks. This nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug should not be given to adolescents with flu-like symptoms.
Aspirin reduces inflammation and consequently tumor formation by inhibiting COX enzymes which synthesize this class of signaling molecule. These lipids are vasodilators and are involved in smooth muscle contraction.
Aspirin also affects these small packets of cytoplasm which shield cancer cells as they metastasize. They are crucial for blood clotting, and are named for their shape in their inactive form.
; aspirin (or acetylsalicylic acid; or ASA)
prostaglandins
platelets &lt;K. Li&gt;
This two-component circuit can be used to make band-pass filters. For 10 points each:
Name this two-component circuit in which current oscillates as energy goes from being stored in the electric field of the capacitor to the magnetic field of the inductor and back.
An LC circuit consists of an inductor and a capacitor, the latter of which has its capacitance measured in units named for this scientist. This British scientist has a namesake law of induction.
The angular frequency of oscillation in an LC circuit varies with this function of the product of inductance and capacitance. The angular frequency of an oscillation for a pendulum varies with this function of the pendulum’s length. You can either give it as a power, or describe its equation.
LC circuit (or resonant circuit; or tank circuit; or tuned circuit)
Michael Faraday (prompt on farads)
negative one-half (accept inverse square root, one over square root, reciprocal square root and equivalents) &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about detergents.
Detergent molecules often assemble into this spherical formation with their hydrophobic tails clustered on the inside of the sphere. These aggregate structures can render proteins soluble by sequestering them inside the sphere or among the detergent monomers.
Detergent molecules have this property meaning they possess polar and apolar regions. This property of phospholipids is what allows them to form bilayers.
This substance contains namesake acids which are anionic detergents produced by the liver. The detergents in this fluid, which is stored in the gallbladder, aid in the emulsification of lipids.
micelle [“mye-cell”]
amphiphilic (accept amphipathic)
bile &lt;K. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the growing field of metal-organic frameworks, or MOFs.
As MOFs are porous with high surface area at the nanoscale, hydrogen gas can be captured by them via this process, in which molecules attach to a solid surface. Don’t confuse it with a very similar term with a one-letter difference.
Much research interest has centered on the ability of MOFs to capture this molecule. Because it is a greenhouse gas, there has been a heavy focus on carbon sequestration to reduce its atmospheric concentration.
Many MOFs exhibit this crystal structure, which has the centers of exactly eight atoms positioned at the corners of a cubic unit cell.This cubic crystal structure has one atom per unit cell.
adsorption (anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on chemisorption or physisorption; do NOT accept “absorption”)
carbon dioxide (or CO2)
simple cubic (or primitive cubic, prompt on cubic) &lt;Yue&gt;
In 2012, Shinichi Mochizuki used Inter-Universal Teichmüller theory to develop a proof of this conjecture that was so confusing that it was called “a theorem in Kyoto but a conjecture everywhere else.” For 10 points each:
Name this conjecture declared unsolved by Scholze and Stix in 2018. It implies that if two positive integers are composed of large powers of primes, then their sum usually is not divisible by large powers of primes.
The abc conjecture would prove a generalization of this mathematician’s “Last Theorem” concerning the impossibility of triples satisfying “a to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n” for n greater than 2.
The abc conjecture was formulated in response to the Szpiro conjecture about these curves of the form “y squared equals x cubed plus a x plus b.” They have nothing to do with the closed conic section of a similar name whose arc length has no closed-form solution.
abc conjecture (accept Oesterlé–Masser conjecture with names in either order)
Pierre de Fermat
elliptic curves &lt;Yue&gt;
The discovery of this effect led to the establishment of the von Klitzing constant for resistance. For 10 points each:
Name this quantum mechanical effect in which a namesake conductance is quantized in terms of integer or fractional multiples of elementary charge squared over Planck’s constant.
The existence of levels named for Lev Landau determines whether the quantum Hall effect is anomalous. Landau also developed the theory of this phenomenon, in which fluids below a critical temperature have zero viscosity.
In the Hall effect, a difference in this quantity is produced perpendicular to the electric current and applied magnetic field. This quantity is current time resistance by Ohm’s law.
quantum Hall effect (do NOT accept or prompt on “Hall effect”)
superfluidity (accept word forms)
voltage (prompt on electric potential difference) &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points, name some quantities that have something to do with position and time.
This is the first derivative of position with respect to time. One half times mass times the magnitude of this vector quantity squared gives kinetic energy.
This quantity is the integral of position with respect to time. Measured in meter-seconds and symbolized A, it can be useful for calculating the flow of water through a valve of changing width.
This is the third derivative of position with respect to time, otherwise known as the rate of change of acceleration. Changes in this quantity cause the namesake situation to occur.
velocity [do not accept or prompt on “speed”]
absement [accept absition]
jerk &lt;DM&gt;
This type of display is commonly used in smartphones, and computers. For 10 points each:
Name this type of display that relies on its namesake entities in between two polarizing filters to either let a backlight pass through or not. It is often used in televisions and other electronic displays.
In smartphones, this implement is often used to interact with the user interface and is analogous to the mouse in PCs. Steve Jobs called this implement as the “best pointing device,” and its namesake “print” can unlock several iPhone models.
In 2013, Apple released iOS 7, which removed this design concept that led to many app icons looking like their real-world counterparts. An example of this concept was making the “Notes” app icon look like a real legal pad.
liquid crystal display [or LCD]
a finger [accept a digit and other obvious equivalents]
skeuomorphism [accept word forms] (“skew-uh-MORF-ism”) &lt;BC&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about elements named after supernatural beings.
This element gets its name from the German word for “goblin,” because its compounds made copper ore unusable and toxic. Its isotope 60 is used in radiation therapy.
This toxic element named for a Roman messenger god is one of only two periodic table elements to be liquid at room temperature, the other being bromine. It was once often used in thermometers.
All the isotopes of this lanthanide element with atomic number 61 are radioactive. It was first produced at a Tennessee laboratory in 1945.
cobalt [prompt on Co]
mercury [prompt on Hg]
promethium [prompt on Pm] &lt;AJ&gt;
Proclus’s axiom is equivalent to this statement. For 10 points each:
Name this statement that states that if the interior angles formed by two lines and a transversal are less than 180 degrees, the lines must intersect.
Another statement equivalent to the parallel postulate is this axiom by a Scottish mathematician. It states that for a line and a point not on the line, there is at most one line passing through the point parallel to the line.
The parallel postulate is one of the five postulates laid out by this ancient Greek mathematician in his text Elements. He also proved there are an infinite number of prime numbers.
parallel postulate [accept but otherwise do not reveal Euclid’s fifth postulate]
Playfair’s axiom
Euclid of Alexandria &lt;BC&gt;
Hemophiliacs have difficulty forming these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these structures, also known as thrombi, which often occur when people are stationary long periods of time. These structures are formed via coagulation.
When a blood clot from a deep vein thrombosis travels to the lungs, an embolism described by this adjective occurs. A major blood vessel leaving the heart is an artery described by this adjective.
It’s not heparin, but this anticoagulant can be used to treat pulmonary embolisms and is sometimes sold under the brand name Coumadin, although it was originally used as rat poison.
blood clot
pulmonary [accept pulmonary embolism pulmonary artery]
warfarin &lt;AL/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things that happen when Lionel Messi places the ball on the pitch to take a free kick.
If the ball weighs 0.43 kilograms and Messi is at sea level on Earth, give the value of the normal force exerted on the ball within ten percent.
If Messi kicks the ball with spin, the curve of its arc in mid air is due to this effect, which also explains why balls hit with backspin stay in the air longer. This effect is named for a German physicist.
If the ball leaves Messi’s cleat at 28 meters per second but enters the goal at 21 meters per second, Messi might curse out this force acting on the ball to slow it down. This force is a type of friction also known as drag.
4.214 Newtons [accept anything between 3.712 and 4.536]
Magnus effect
air resistance [accept fluid resistance; prompt on fluid friction] &lt;BC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the foundations of modern genetics.
This scientist and monk observed patterns in the inheritance of traits by reproducing pea plants. He is known as the “father of modern genetics” and formulated the Laws of Independent Assortment and Segregation.
This scientist who worked at Columbia University studied wild type genes in Drosophila melanogaster, or fruit flies, and his research was fundamental to the understanding of sex-linked characteristics.
Morgan’s work with Drosophila led to increased understanding of gene linkage. Distances between chromosome positions in terms of linkage are measured in these units, also called centimorgans in Morgan’s honor.
Gregor (Johann) Mendel
Thomas Hunt Morgan
(genetic) map unit [prompt on m.u.] &lt;AL&gt;
For 10 points each, don't move at glacial speed when you name these parts of glaciers.
This part of a glacier is the area where the glacier is losing ice mass through weathering, calving, melting, or evaporation. It is found at a low altitude.
The ablation zone is separated from the accumulation zone by a line named after this phenomenon. That line is where accumulation and ablation are occurring at the same rate, leading to the “dynamic” type of this phenomenon.
Glaciers can leave these features composed of rock, ice, and debris as they retreat, of which there are terminal and ground types.
ablation zone [or ablation area]
equilibrium
moraines &lt;BC&gt;
Pockets of bacteria living in the root nodules of legumes often carry out this chemical process. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a namesake molecule found in the atmosphere is converted into biologically useful compounds, such as ammonia.
Artificial nitrogen fixation can be performed via this technique, in which nitrogen and hydrogen react due to the addition of a metallic catalyst. This technique, weaponized by Germany in World War I, yields ammonia.
This scientist recognized the benefits of using nitrogen-fixing plants in crop rotation. His other projects included an experimental polio treatment, tested on patients like Franklin Delano Roosevelt, using a certain oil.
nitrogen fixation [accept word forms]
Haber-Bosch process
George Washington Carver [do not accept or prompt on “George Washington”] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some elements related to Michael Bay’s favorite things: explosions.
This alkaline earth metal is often used in the manufacture of fireworks because when it reacts with oxygen, it produces a bright flame. It’s not calcium, but this element is found along with carbonate in dolomite.
This element is thought to have the highest reactivity with water and, due to its short half-life, is the second-rarest naturally occurring element on Earth.
Fission of this element with atomic number 92 has been used to produce explosions, such as the one that destroyed the Japanese city of Hiroshima.
magnesium [prompt on Mg; do not accept or prompt on “manganese”]
francium [prompt on Fr]
uranium [prompt on U] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
This disease may have originated from a mutation of yaws. For 10 points each:
Name this disease spread by a 1494 invasion of Naples. Historically, its second stage caused large pustules to form and flesh to fall off, resulting in quick death.
Syphilis likely developed in the New World, spreading to Europe as part of this biological exchange of species between Africa, Eurasia, and America. Alfred Crosby coined the name of this exchange.
The deadliest disease to go from Europe to America in the Columbian Exchange was this “pox” that was eradicated in 1977. The first vaccine was made by Edward Jenner for this disease.
syphilis [or Treponema pallidum]
Columbian Exchange
smallpox [generously accept Variola major or Variola minor] &lt;DM&gt;
Far out, dude! For 10 points each, name some trans-Neptunian objects.
This trans-Neptunian object actually was closer to the Sun than Neptune for 20 years, and it was visited by New Horizons in 2015. This object was formerly the ninth planet of the solar system.
This object is the most massive dwarf planet. Its moon is Dysnomia, and it is named for the Greek goddess of strife who once threw the Golden Apple.
This trans-Neptunian object has the second largest perihelion of any body orbiting the Sun and its aphelion is at over 900 astronomical units. It is named for the Inuit goddess of the sea.
134340 Pluto
136199 Eris
90377 Sedna &lt;BC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about second laws in physics.
This scientist’s second law of motion states that the net force on a body is equal to its change in momentum with respect to time. It is usually stated as F = ma.
Johannes Kepler’s second law of planetary motion states that objects in orbit sweep out equal areas in equal times, or, more generally, that this quantity is conserved. This quantity is symbolized L.
This German scientist’s second theorem describes an action functional’s symmetries, but she is better known for her first theorem, which, in basic terms, states that there is a conservation law corresponding to every symmetry.
Sir Isaac Newton
angular momentum [prompt on momentum; do not accept or prompt on “linear momentum”]
(Amalie) Emmy Noether &lt;BC/CL&gt;
In the symmetric version of this problem, it takes the same distance to go between two places in both directions. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical problem in which one must determine the shortest possible route that visits a certain set of cities and returns to the starting point. It is named for a certain business person on the move.
The traveling salesman problem is [these two letters] “hard,” and its decision version is [these two letters] “complete.” The complexity class named by these two letters contains decision problems with proven “yes” cases.
This generalization of the traveling salesman problem takes into consideration the cost of travel rather than the distance and seeks to spend the least money across several stores on a shopping trip for a given set of items.
traveling salesman problem [prompt on TSP; prompt on vehicle routing problem or VRP; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal traveling purchaser problem or TPP]
NP [or N and P; begrudgingly accept nondeterministic polynomial time; do not accept or prompt on “PN” or “P and N”]
traveling purchaser problem [prompt on TPP] &lt;CL&gt;
Methoxyethane and propanol are one example of these sets of compounds, as they share the chemical formula C<sub>3</sub>H<sub>8</sub>O (“C three H eight O”). For 10 points each:
Name these alternate configurations of molecules that can come in “structural” and “stereo-” forms.
Geometric isomers across double bonds are differentiated in chemical formulas by labeling them with one of these two letters which begin German words describing the locations of higher-priority chains on double bonds. Name either.
When stereoisomeric changes occur across single bonds, they are considered this type of isomer due to their ability to rearrange to form each other. Differences between these isomers can be denoted using Newman projections.
isomers [accept isomerism]
E and Z [accept either]
rotamers [accept rotational isomers; accept conformational isomers; accept having different conformations] &lt;AJ&gt;
This hormone, also known as somatocrinin, has a receptor on chromosome 7. For 10 points each:
Identify this repetitively named hormone, a liberin named for its relationship to another hormone also called somatotropin. This hormone can be found in the hypothalamus of human fetuses about 20 weeks after conception.
The structure of human growth hormone includes four of these structures, determined by secondary protein folding.
Like all peptides, human growth hormone is composed of these subunits, examples of which include glycine and tryptophan.
growth hormone-releasing hormone [or growth hormone-releasing factor; accept GHRH or GHRF; prompt on somatoliberin; prompt on somatorelin; prompt on somatotropin-releasing hormone or somatotropin-releasing factor; prompt on SRH or SRF]
alpha helices [or alpha helix; prompt on alpha]
amino acids &lt;CL&gt;
. For 10 points each, name these geographical features found in our solar system.
This anticyclonic storm was first observed in 1830 and is the trademark geographical feature of Jupiter.
This shield volcano is the tallest mountain in the solar system. Its diameter is the same as that of France.
This Italian astronomer names a dorsum on Mercury and a crater found on Mars. In Andy Weir’s The Martian, Mark Watney is rescued from that crater named for this man.
Great Red Spot
Olympus Mons
Giovanni (Virginio) Schiaparelli &lt;AJ&gt;
This group of elements is the namesake of a notation for electron configuration. For 10 points each:
Name this group of elements found to the far right of the periodic table. They are extremely stable and include xenon and neon.
Although noble gases typically do not form compounds, xenon can bond with this element in several different ratios. It’s not carbon, but this element is also a component of Teflon.
Xenon tetrafluoride has this molecular geometry as predicted by VSEPR (“vesper”) theory, because it has two lone pairs.
noble gases [accept inert gases; prompt on group 18; prompt on partial]
fluorine [prompt on F; do not accept or prompt on “fluoride”]
square planar [prompt on partial] &lt;CL&gt;
Ancient mathematicians in this country classified numbers as enumerable, innumerable, and infinite. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the archaeological sites of Dholavira and Lothal indicate that ancient people there had knowledge of weights, measures, and stellar movement.
This theorem was discovered in India as well as in China, Mesopotamia, and Greece. This theorem states that the square of the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the legs.
Jain mathematicians in India were also the first to use this concept in their calculations. This concept’s early use has also been attributed to the Mayans.
Republic of India [accept Bharat Ganrajya]
Pythagorean theorem [accept Pythagoras’s theorem]
the number zero [accept shunya; accept descriptions like a symbol representing none] &lt;AJ&gt;
Transformers rely on this phenomenon to transfer electrical energy between circuits. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon described by Faraday’s law in which a conductor moves through a magnetic field, thus causing a current to flow. This phenomenon shares its name with a method of mathematical proof.
The negative sign in Faraday’s law of induction is given by a law named for this Russian physicist which states that the induced electromotive force and the magnetic flux are in opposite directions.
An easy way to remember which way the current flows when a conductor moves through a magnetic field is this mnemonic. In this mnemonic, the thumb represents the direction of motion.
induction [accept word forms]
Heinrich (Friedrich Emil) Lenz
Fleming’s right-hand rule for generators &lt;BC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the octet rule.
The octet rule says that many elements will bond such that they have this number of valence electrons. This is also the atomic number of oxygen.
This element can violate the octet rule, such as in its trifluoride in which it only has six valence electrons. It is frequently used as a fiberglass additive.
This scientist developed one of his theories based on an early form of the octet rule, which he referred to as Abegg’s rule. He also was the first to use the term “fugacity.”
eight
boron [prompt on B]
Gilbert (Newton) Lewis &lt;CL&gt;
Springs are one illustrative example of this type of motion. For 10 points each:
Name this type of motion in which the displacement and restoring force are directly proportional and have opposite directions.
The motion of these things can be approximated by simple harmonic motion via the small-angle approximation. One of these things consists of a mass hanging from a string and allowed to swing freely.
A “Scotch” type of this device can also be used to produce simple harmonic motion. More generally, this device is used in an agricultural context to help two animals, such as oxen, move a mass together.
simple harmonic motion [or SHM; accept simple harmonic oscillators or SHOs; prompt on partial; prompt on periodic motion; prompt on oscillation]
simple (gravity) pendulums
yokes [accept Scotch yokes] &lt;CL&gt;
Sometimes, a Quiz Bowl tournament can feel like whirlwind of emotion! For 10 points each, name some things about a certain related destructive phenomenon.
These weather phenomena occurs when a funnel cloud touches the ground. They commonly occur in a namesake “alley” in the middle of the United States.
The intensity of a tornado is usually measured on an “enhanced” version of a previous scale, or from T0 to T11 on another. Name either of the scale that was enhanced or the other scale.
Tornadoes often develop from these particularly large and rare rotating thunderstorms, which contain a persistent updraft.
tornadoes [accept twisters; accept cyclones]
Fujita scale or TORRO tornado intensity scale [accept either; accept Fujita-Pearson scale; prompt on F-scale or FPP scale or T-scale]
supercells &lt;BL&gt;
Ouch! What is that abdominal pain? For 10 points each, name some things about one possible answer.
Maybe you’re suffering from the peptic type of this problem, which can be caused by H. pylori bacteria. These membrane discontinuities often occur in the stomach and can be caused by stress.
Your peptic or stress ulcer might be located in the stomach, but it could also be located in this structure. This first section of the small intestine precedes the jejunum and the ileum.
Perhaps you got your ulcer by using this class of drugs which work by limiting the abilities of cyclooxygenase enzymes. Naproxen is one of these drugs.
ulcers [accept stomach ulcers or peptic ulcers or stress ulcers]
duodenum
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [or NSAIDs] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
Lisp does not have an explicit example of this data type. For 10 points each:
Name this data type, in which there are only two possible values, usually referred to as “true” and false.” For that reason, this data type, named for an English mathematician, is built into many programming languages.
This object-oriented programming language has a built-in Boolean data type and has a coffee cup logo. It was developed by Sun Microsystems and should not be confused with a similarly named language ending in “Script.”
This four-word slogan used to promote Java points to the goal of Sun Microsystems to eliminate recompilation. Due to the premise described by this slogan, abbreviated WORA, most devices have Java virtual machines.
Boolean data type
Java [do not accept or prompt on “JavaScript”]
write once, run anywhere [or write once, run everywhere] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
In one stage of this process, sister chromatids separate and move to opposite ends of the cell. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a cell is separated into two genetically identical daughter cells. The stages of this process include prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase.
Adult cells which divide through mitosis are these cells that are not involved in the production of gametes. Their name does NOT refer to the number of chromosomes they contain.
A somatic cell nucleus is inserted into an egg without a nucleus in a type of this process which was pioneered by Hans Spemann. IPS cells can be injected into a blastocyst to perform this process.
mitosis [do not accept or prompt on “meiosis”]
somatic cells [accept vegetal cells; prompt on body cells]
cloning [accept word forms; do not accept or prompt on “fertilization”] &lt;BC&gt;
Some of these compounds are described as “fatty.” For 10 points each:
Name these compounds, which, according to the Brønsted-Lowry definition, act as proton donors. Litmus paper turns red in response to contact with these compounds.
A substance’s tendency to dissolve in a nonpolar solvent, such as a fatty acid, is given this term. Substances with this ability do not form hydrogen bonds.
A specific number of fatty acids combine with a certain polyol compound to form these molecules. These esters are a subset of lipids which, depending on whether their fatty acids are saturated, may be considered oils or fats.
acids [accept fatty acids]
lipophilicity [prompt on hydrophobicity]
triglycerides [or triacylglycerols or triacylglycerides; prompt on TG or TAG] &lt;BC/CL&gt;
This thinker proved the formula for the area under a parabola. For 10 points each:
Identify this ancient scientist whose namesake principle states that the buoyant force exerted upwards on an object under a certain condition is equal to the weight of the displaced matter.
In his work On Floating Bodies, Archimedes discusses the equilibrium of these substances. This general type of substance has Newtonian and non-Newtonian types and encompasses, among other things, gases and liquids.
Unlike solids, which exert a restoring force in response to shear stresses and normal stresses, ideal fluids only exert one in response to the latter, which are also known as this quantity.
Archimedes of Syracuse
fluids
pressure &lt;CL&gt;
The waveform of this type of current in most electric power circuits is a sine wave. For 10 points each:
Name this most common type of electrical current in international power grids, often contrasted with direct current.
A major advocate of alternating current was this scientist who invented a namesake coil and names the SI unit for magnetic flux density.
Thomas Edison, an advocate of direct current, tried to convince the general public of alternating current’s danger by performing this specific action. One individual affected by this action was Dash.
alternating current [accept AC]
Nikola Tesla
electrocuting stray dogs [accept word forms and equivalents; prompt on killing dogs and equivalents; prompt on electrocution of animals and equivalents] &lt;AJ&gt;
This ionic compound is widely found in South American salt flats. For 10 points each:
Name this salt with formula NaNO3 (“N A N O 3”). It is also known as Chile saltpeter.
Sodium nitrate reacts with a salt of this metal in a double-replacement reaction to form regular saltpeter, which is this metal’s nitrate.
Saltpeter is combined with charcoal and sulfur to form this substance also known as black powder, which is explosive. This substance was invented in China and used in firearms.
sodium nitrate [accept nitratine or nitratite or soda niter]
potassium [prompt on K]
gunpowder &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the Paleocene-Eocene Temperature Maximum, or PETM.
Parallels have been drawn between the PETM and the modern day due to this phenomenon widely accepted to be in part the result of human activity releasing carbon dioxide.
During the PETM, levels of this isotope of carbon in seafloor bacteria dropped dramatically. This isotope has seven neutrons.
The PETM was also marked by an increase in the population of members of this phylum, which likely resulted from secondary endosymbiosis with red algae. They include zooxanthellae.
global warming [accept climate change; accept word forms and equivalents]
carbon-13 [accept 13C]
Dinoflagellata [accept dinoflagellates] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following shark species.
This shark species is the largest living fish species, and its members use filter pads and gill slits for filter feeding. This species is the only member of the genus Rhincodon.
This perhaps most famous shark species is named for the color of its underbelly and has sharp triangular teeth. This species is responsible for more recorded attacks on humans than any other shark species.
This elusive shark species is thought to have the longest lifespan of any vertebrate and lives in deep waters. The Icelandic culinary dish kaestur hakarl is usually made using members of this species.
whale shark [accept Rhincodon typus]
great white shark [accept Carcharodon carcharias; begrudgingly accept white death or white pointer]
Greenland shark [or gurry shark or grey shark; accept Somniosus microcephalus; accept eqalussuaq] &lt;DM/CL&gt;
Harry Truman became aware of this project’s existence twelve days into his presidency. For 10 points each:
Name this scientific project which conducted the Trinity tests and was advocated for by Albert Einstein. It is named for a borough of New York City.
This man headed the Los Alamos Laboratory responsible for much of the work on the Manhattan Project. He also calculated the photoelectric effect for hydrogen under X-rays.
Oppenheimer later claimed that when he first viewed the Trinity tests, the image of the nuclear bomb brought to mind this quote, which originally referred to the decay of everything over time.
Manhattan Project [accept Development of Substitute Materials]
Julius Robert Oppenheimer
now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds &lt;AJ&gt;
This process can only occur in competent organisms. For 10 points each:
Identify this process, first shown in the laboratory in 1928 by Frederick Griffith. Oswald Avery, Colin MacLeod, and Maclyn McCarty coined the term for this process and determined it was genetic in 1944.
Transformation is most commonly observed in these organisms, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae. These unicellular organisms are the namesake of one of the three domains, along with Archaea and Eukarya.
This other form of horizontal gene transfer, which is not transduction, occurs through direct contact between cells and shares its name with a term from linguistics.
transformation [accept word forms]
bacteria [accept bacterium]
conjugation [accept word forms] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the uranium decay chain.
Typically, uranium-238 will first decay to this element in alpha decay by emitting a helium nucleus. Later in the uranium series, this element will decay from its 230 isotope to radium-226.
After uranium-238 decays to thorium-234, it decays again to protactinium-234 in the “minus” form of this decay, which converts a neutron to a proton while generating an electron and an electron antineutrino.
In beta-minus decay, neutrons are converted to protons by this force, which works by exchanging force-carrying bosons to change the flavor of a quark. This force and electromagnetism are now thought to be aspects of the same force.
thorium [prompt on Th]
beta-minus decay
weak nuclear force [accept weak interaction] &lt;BC&gt;
The Dartmouth proposal is a crucial statement in this field of study. For 10 points each:
Identify this field which includes machine learning and attempts to replicate human cognitive functions.
If the field of AI can produce sentient computers, many ethical and philosophical questions arise, and this idea about our world, developed by Nick Bostrom, might be true. A description is fine.
This thought experiment, developed by John Searle, argues that a computer program can never provide consciousness. It imagines a conversation in its namesake language with a person who cannot speak it.
artificial intelligence [or AI; accept machine intelligence or MI; prompt on intelligence; generously prompt on computer science]
the simulation hypothesis [accept we are living in a computer simulation or we are computer simulations and equivalents; accept artificial in place of computer; prompt on the world is a machine and equivalents]
Searle’s Chinese room &lt;CL&gt;
Even functions have this property with respect to the y-axis. For 10 points each:
Identify this general mathematical property which may be reflectional, rotational, point, translational, etc. Human anatomy has the bilateral form of this property.
A property sometimes known as expanding or evolving symmetry is possessed by these self-similar mathematical objects. Benoit Mandelbrot worked with these objects, which include the Koch snowflake.
One of Mandelbrot’s first papers on self-similarity asked how large this value was. That paper on this value dealt with the idea that the smaller the scale used to measure it, the greater it seems.
symmetry [accept word forms]
fractals
length of the coast of (Great) Britain [accept equivalents; prompt on partial; prompt on perimeter; do not accept or prompt on “United Kingdom” or “England” in place of “Britain”] &lt;CL&gt;
This element is the most common element in the universe. For 10 points each:
Name this element with one proton and one electron which commonly forms a diatomic gas and can be found along with carbon in alkanes.
This isotope of hydrogen consists of one proton, one neutron, and one electron. It is the heaviest stable isotope of hydrogen.
Deuterium oxide can be used in this role, although most reactors use water instead. Nazi Germany’s military program suffered because the cheap graphite they used in this role failed.
hydrogen [prompt on H]
deuterium [prompt on hydrogen-2; prompt on heavy hydrogen; prompt on D or 2H (“2 H”)]
neutron moderators [accept word forms; prompt on partial; prompt on descriptions of slowing neutrons and equivalents; prompt on descriptions of creating thermal neutrons and equivalents] &lt;BC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about parasites that change the behavior of their hosts.
This protist develops in the digestive system of cats and when infecting mice or humans reduces their fear response. It can be spread by contact with cat feces.
Some species in this kingdom, which includes mushrooms, are known to control ants or moths, forcing the hosts to climb to high places before bursting out and releasing the parasite’s spores.
One of these insects injects its venom into a spider, forcing the spider to weave a cocoon for its eggs instead of a web. They are members of the suborder Apocrita, and many of them are in the family Vespidae.
Toxoplasma gondii [accept T. gondii; generously accept Toxoplasmosis]
Fungi [or fungus]
wasps [anti-prompt on yellowjackets or hornets; do not accept or prompt on “bees”] &lt;AJ&gt;
Isaac Newton sometimes represented this operation by drawing a box around a variable. For 10 points each:
Name this operation in calculus which is colloquially, though not precisely, also known as an antiderivative. The “definite” form of this operation finds the area under a curve over a given domain of inputs.
When finding a function’s integral, sometimes the function and differential must be rewritten in terms of a new function, usually symbolized by this letter. Its uppercase form is also sometimes used to represent potential energy.
This integration technique can be used when the degree of the numerator of a rational function is less than the degree of the denominator. It is performed by factoring the denominator and setting up as many terms as there are unique factors.
integration [accept word forms and equivalents like taking the integral]
u
integration by partial fractions [accept integration by partial fraction decomposition; accept integration by partial fraction expansion] &lt;CL&gt;
Hund’s first rule states in part that the lowest energy atomic state maximizes the total value of this quantity in the open subshell. For 10 points each:
Name this form of intrinsic angular momentum that is the fourth quantum number. Electrons can occupy the same orbital provided one of them has a value of up and the other down for this quantity.
This experiment proved the quantization of spin. In this experiment, silver atoms were sent through an inhomogeneous magnetic field to deflect them onto a screen.
The Stern-Gerlach experiment relied on the fact that the silver atoms’ value for this quantity was related to their spin so they would deflect in different directions when they interacted with the magnetic field.
spin angular momentum [do not accept or prompt on “orbital angular momentum”]
Stern-Gerlach experiment
magnetic moment [accept magnetic dipole moment; prompt on mu] &lt;BC&gt;
Originally, this field only dealt with the zero-sum type of its namesake thing. For 10 points each:
Name this field of mathematics which examines situations like the prisoner’s dilemma. Important figures in this field include John von Neumann and John Nash.
Before the development of game theory, the study of games led to the development of this mathematical idea in probability theory, the long-run average result of an experiment. In casinos, this quantity is often negative.
The prisoner’s dilemma, along with games like chicken, has this property in its standard form. This property applies to a game for which only opponents’ strategies, not players’ identities, affect a player’s strategies’ outcomes.
game theory
expected value [or expected value; accept EV; accept mathematical expectation; accept first moment; prompt on mean value]
symmetry [accept word forms; accept ordinal symmetry or quantitative symmetry or word forms] &lt;CL&gt;
Now’s not the time to seize up! For 10 points each, name some things about cesium.
Cesium appears in this group of the periodic table. This group of highly reactive metals is farthest left on the table and also includes lithium, sodium, and rubidium.
One of the most common practical uses of cesium is in the atomic type of this common device, which works because of the use of an electron transition frequency standard.
Cesium-133 is also used when its atoms are in this form after being cooled by a laser. Typically, atoms in this condition are kept at temperatures of under one microkelvin.
alkali metals [do not accept or prompt on “alkaline earth metals”]
atomic/cesium clocks
ultracold atoms [accept word forms; prompt on descriptive answers] &lt;CL&gt;
Two of these particles cannot be separated without using so much energy that it creates new particle-antiparticle pairs. For 10 points each:
Name these elementary particles which were studied by Murray Gell-Mann. Mesons are made of two of these particles, while baryons are made of three.
The six known quark types are distinguished by their values for this quantum number. The value of this quantum number sometimes changes in namesake “oscillations.”
This type of quark is found in kaons and is a member of the second generation of matter. This type of quark has an electric charge of negative one third e.
quarks
flavor
strange [or sideways; accept s] &lt;BC&gt;
It’s not just dragons! For 10 points each, name these real but extinct animals featured in George R. R. Martin’s <em>A Song of Ice and Fire</em> series.
Beyond the Wall, giants ride these hairy animals through the snow. The common name for this tusked animal is a synonym of “large.”
The sigil of House Stark is an animal that went extinct ten thousand years ago, the “dire” form of this animal. This animal shares a middle Pleistocene common ancestor with the modern dingo.
A delicacy common at royal Westerosi feasts are aurochs, a type of these animals which belong to the genus Bos.
woolly mammoth [accept Mammuthus primigenius]
wolf [or wolves; accept Canis lupus]
cattle [accept cows; accept Bos taurus] &lt;AJ&gt;
This thing is to the left of the forbidden zone. For 10 points each:
Identify this area on a certain diagram which is followed by protostars which have become “T Tauri.” The limit which shares a name with this area is a lower bound for temperature or an upper bound for radius.
Protostars on the Hayashi track are very early in the process of stellar evolution. At the end of a star’s lifetime, on the other hand, one of these general explosive events may occur, leaving behind a neutron star or black hole.
The Hayashi track is a relationship on this doubly eponymous diagram, which compares temperature or color to luminosity. Another band of this diagram is the main sequence.
Hayashi track [begrudgingly accept Hayashi limit; prompt on pre-main sequence phase or PMS phase]
supernovae [or supernovas]
Hertzsprung-Russell Diagram [or HR diagram or HRD] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about genetic material.
The genetic material found in this organelle is often used to assess matrilineal genetic relationships. The electron transport chain occurs on this organelle’s inner membrane, and memes often refer to it as the “powerhouse of the cell.”
This molecule made up of single-stranded genetic material contains anticodons which direct it to pick up specific amino acids during translation.
Another type of RNA, rRNA or ribosomal RNA, forms this subunit, which contains a hole through which mRNA passes during translation. This subunit checks for correct codon-anticodon pairings.
mitochondria [or mitochondrion; begrudgingly accept mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid or mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA]
transfer ribonucleic acid [or transfer RNA or tRNA; prompt on ribonucleic acid or RNA]
small subunit [or SSU; prompt on S] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
This group of elements is the namesake of a notation for electron configuration. For 10 points each:
Name this group of elements found to the far right of the periodic table. They are extremely stable and include xenon and neon.
Although noble gases typically do not form compounds, xenon can bond with this element in several different ratios. It’s not carbon, but this element is also a component of Teflon.
Xenon tetrafluoride has this molecular geometry as predicted by VSEPR (“vesper”) theory, because it has two lone pairs.
noble gases [accept inert gases; prompt on group 18; prompt on partial]
fluorine [prompt on F; do not accept or prompt on “fluoride”]
square planar [prompt on partial] &lt;CL&gt;
Ancient mathematicians in this country classified numbers as enumerable, innumerable, and infinite. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the archaeological sites of Dholavira and Lothal indicate that ancient people there had knowledge of weights, measures, and stellar movement.
This theorem was discovered in India as well as in China, Mesopotamia, and Greece. This theorem states that the square of the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the legs.
Jain mathematicians in India were also the first to use this concept in their calculations. This concept’s early use has also been attributed to the Mayans.
Republic of India [accept Bharat Ganrajya]
Pythagorean theorem [accept Pythagoras’s theorem]
the number zero [accept shunya; accept descriptions like a symbol representing none] &lt;AJ&gt;
Transformers rely on this phenomenon to transfer electrical energy between circuits. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon described by Faraday’s law in which a conductor moves through a magnetic field, thus causing a current to flow. This phenomenon shares its name with a method of mathematical proof.
The negative sign in Faraday’s law of induction is given by a law named for this Russian physicist which states that the induced electromotive force and the magnetic flux are in opposite directions.
An easy way to remember which way the current flows when a conductor moves through a magnetic field is this mnemonic. In this mnemonic, the thumb represents the direction of motion.
induction [accept word forms]
Heinrich (Friedrich Emil) Lenz
Fleming’s right-hand rule for generators &lt;BC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the octet rule.
The octet rule says that many elements will bond such that they have this number of valence electrons. This is also the atomic number of oxygen.
This element can violate the octet rule, such as in its trifluoride in which it only has six valence electrons. It is frequently used as a fiberglass additive.
This scientist developed one of his theories based on an early form of the octet rule, which he referred to as Abegg’s rule. He also was the first to use the term “fugacity.”
eight
boron [prompt on B]
Gilbert (Newton) Lewis &lt;CL&gt;
Springs are one illustrative example of this type of motion. For 10 points each:
Name this type of motion in which the displacement and restoring force are directly proportional and have opposite directions.
The motion of these things can be approximated by simple harmonic motion via the small-angle approximation. One of these things consists of a mass hanging from a string and allowed to swing freely.
A “Scotch” type of this device can also be used to produce simple harmonic motion. More generally, this device is used in an agricultural context to help two animals, such as oxen, move a mass together.
simple harmonic motion [or SHM; accept simple harmonic oscillators or SHOs; prompt on partial; prompt on periodic motion; prompt on oscillation]
simple (gravity) pendulums
yokes [accept Scotch yokes] &lt;CL&gt;
Sometimes, a Quiz Bowl tournament can feel like whirlwind of emotion! For 10 points each, name some things about a certain related destructive phenomenon.
These weather phenomena occurs when a funnel cloud touches the ground. They commonly occur in a namesake “alley” in the middle of the United States.
The intensity of a tornado is usually measured on an “enhanced” version of a previous scale, or from T0 to T11 on another. Name either of the scale that was enhanced or the other scale.
Tornadoes often develop from these particularly large and rare rotating thunderstorms, which contain a persistent updraft.
tornadoes [accept twisters; accept cyclones]
Fujita scale or TORRO tornado intensity scale [accept either; accept Fujita-Pearson scale; prompt on F-scale or FPP scale or T-scale]
supercells &lt;BL&gt;
Ouch! What is that abdominal pain? For 10 points each, name some things about one possible answer.
Maybe you’re suffering from the peptic type of this problem, which can be caused by H. pylori bacteria. These membrane discontinuities often occur in the stomach and can be caused by stress.
Your peptic or stress ulcer might be located in the stomach, but it could also be located in this structure. This first section of the small intestine precedes the jejunum and the ileum.
Perhaps you got your ulcer by using this class of drugs which work by limiting the abilities of cyclooxygenase enzymes. Naproxen is one of these drugs.
ulcers [accept stomach ulcers or peptic ulcers or stress ulcers]
duodenum
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [or NSAIDs] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
Lisp does not have an explicit example of this data type. For 10 points each:
Name this data type, in which there are only two possible values, usually referred to as “true” and false.” For that reason, this data type, named for an English mathematician, is built into many programming languages.
This object-oriented programming language has a built-in Boolean data type and has a coffee cup logo. It was developed by Sun Microsystems and should not be confused with a similarly named language ending in “Script.”
This four-word slogan used to promote Java points to the goal of Sun Microsystems to eliminate recompilation. Due to the premise described by this slogan, abbreviated WORA, most devices have Java virtual machines.
Boolean data type
Java [do not accept or prompt on “JavaScript”]
write once, run anywhere [or write once, run everywhere] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
In one stage of this process, sister chromatids separate and move to opposite ends of the cell. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a cell is separated into two genetically identical daughter cells. The stages of this process include prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase.
Adult cells which divide through mitosis are these cells that are not involved in the production of gametes. Their name does NOT refer to the number of chromosomes they contain.
A somatic cell nucleus is inserted into an egg without a nucleus in a type of this process which was pioneered by Hans Spemann. IPS cells can be injected into a blastocyst to perform this process.
mitosis [do not accept or prompt on “meiosis”]
somatic cells [accept vegetal cells; prompt on body cells]
cloning [accept word forms; do not accept or prompt on “fertilization”] &lt;BC&gt;
Some of these compounds are described as “fatty.” For 10 points each:
Name these compounds, which, according to the Brønsted-Lowry definition, act as proton donors. Litmus paper turns red in response to contact with these compounds.
A substance’s tendency to dissolve in a nonpolar solvent, such as a fatty acid, is given this term. Substances with this ability do not form hydrogen bonds.
A specific number of fatty acids combine with a certain polyol compound to form these molecules. These esters are a subset of lipids which, depending on whether their fatty acids are saturated, may be considered oils or fats.
acids [accept fatty acids]
lipophilicity [prompt on hydrophobicity]
triglycerides [or triacylglycerols or triacylglycerides; prompt on TG or TAG] &lt;BC/CL&gt;
This thinker proved the formula for the area under a parabola. For 10 points each:
Identify this ancient scientist whose namesake principle states that the buoyant force exerted upwards on an object under a certain condition is equal to the weight of the displaced matter.
In his work On Floating Bodies, Archimedes discusses the equilibrium of these substances. This general type of substance has Newtonian and non-Newtonian types and encompasses, among other things, gases and liquids.
Unlike solids, which exert a restoring force in response to shear stresses and normal stresses, ideal fluids only exert one in response to the latter, which are also known as this quantity.
Archimedes of Syracuse
fluids
pressure &lt;CL&gt;
The waveform of this type of current in most electric power circuits is a sine wave. For 10 points each:
Name this most common type of electrical current in international power grids, often contrasted with direct current.
A major advocate of alternating current was this scientist who invented a namesake coil and names the SI unit for magnetic flux density.
Thomas Edison, an advocate of direct current, tried to convince the general public of alternating current’s danger by performing this specific action. One individual affected by this action was Dash.
alternating current [accept AC]
Nikola Tesla
electrocuting stray dogs [accept word forms and equivalents; prompt on killing dogs and equivalents; prompt on electrocution of animals and equivalents] &lt;AJ&gt;
This ionic compound is widely found in South American salt flats. For 10 points each:
Name this salt with formula NaNO3 (“N A N O 3”). It is also known as Chile saltpeter.
Sodium nitrate reacts with a salt of this metal in a double-replacement reaction to form regular saltpeter, which is this metal’s nitrate.
Saltpeter is combined with charcoal and sulfur to form this substance also known as black powder, which is explosive. This substance was invented in China and used in firearms.
sodium nitrate [accept nitratine or nitratite or soda niter]
potassium [prompt on K]
gunpowder &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the Paleocene-Eocene Temperature Maximum, or PETM.
Parallels have been drawn between the PETM and the modern day due to this phenomenon widely accepted to be in part the result of human activity releasing carbon dioxide.
During the PETM, levels of this isotope of carbon in seafloor bacteria dropped dramatically. This isotope has seven neutrons.
The PETM was also marked by an increase in the population of members of this phylum, which likely resulted from secondary endosymbiosis with red algae. They include zooxanthellae.
global warming [accept climate change; accept word forms and equivalents]
carbon-13 [accept 13C]
Dinoflagellata [accept dinoflagellates] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following shark species.
This shark species is the largest living fish species, and its members use filter pads and gill slits for filter feeding. This species is the only member of the genus Rhincodon.
This perhaps most famous shark species is named for the color of its underbelly and has sharp triangular teeth. This species is responsible for more recorded attacks on humans than any other shark species.
This elusive shark species is thought to have the longest lifespan of any vertebrate and lives in deep waters. The Icelandic culinary dish kaestur hakarl is usually made using members of this species.
whale shark [accept Rhincodon typus]
great white shark [accept Carcharodon carcharias; begrudgingly accept white death or white pointer]
Greenland shark [or gurry shark or grey shark; accept Somniosus microcephalus; accept eqalussuaq] &lt;DM/CL&gt;
These structures form after the formation of a cell plate. For 10 points each:
Name these cellulose-based structures which are found in certain multicellular organisms. These structures are stretched outward when the cell is turgid and lie outside outside the cell membrane.
These channels in plant cell walls contain a section of specialized endoplasmic reticulum called the desmotubule. They enable transportation and communication between cells.
Sieve elements in this structure also use plasmodesmata. This structure found in vascular plants moves soluble organic compounds throughout the organism.
plant cell walls [accept equivalents that mention both plants and cell walls; prompt on cell walls]
plasmodesmata
phloem [accept bast; accept liber] &lt;DM/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some people who contributed to the development of atomic theory.
This Ancient Greek philosopher, along with Leucippus, helped develop the term “atom” and theorized that matter was composed of indivisible, indestructible, and constantly moving particles.
This twentieth century Danish physicist worked with Ernest Rutherford to develop an atomic model featuring electron shell orbitals based on the hydrogen atom.
This botanist inadvertently contributed to atomic theory with his notes on the dust particles in certain pollen grains. He was also the first to note the distinction between angiosperms and gymnosperms.
Democritus
Niels (Henrik David) Bohr
Robert Brown [accept Brownian motion] &lt;CL&gt;
Water molecules cannot pass through the phospholipid bilayer of a cell membrane because they contain this kind of bond. For 10 points each:
Name this type of covalent bond that occurs when electrons are more attracted to one atom than to another.
Polar bonds are caused due to differences in this quantity symbolized chi. This quantity is usually measured on the Pauling scale, on which fluorine is a 3.98.
This other scientist suggested calculating electronegativity by finding the arithmetic mean of electron affinity and first ionization energy.
polar covalent bond [accept word forms]
electronegativity [accept word forms]
Robert (Sanderson) Mulliken [do not accept or prompt on “Millikan”] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about genetic material.
The genetic material found in this organelle is often used to assess matrilineal genetic relationships. The electron transport chain occurs on this organelle’s inner membrane, and memes often refer to it as the “powerhouse of the cell.”
This molecule made up of single-stranded genetic material contains anticodons which direct it to pick up specific amino acids during translation.
Another type of RNA, rRNA or ribosomal RNA, forms this subunit, which contains a hole through which mRNA passes during translation. This subunit checks for correct codon-anticodon pairings.
mitochondria [or mitochondrion; begrudgingly accept mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid or mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA]
transfer ribonucleic acid [or transfer RNA or tRNA; prompt on ribonucleic acid or RNA]
small subunit [or SSU; prompt on S] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
This thing is to the left of the forbidden zone. For 10 points each:
Identify this area on a certain diagram which is followed by protostars which have become “T Tauri.” The limit which shares a name with this area is a lower bound for temperature or an upper bound for radius.
Protostars on the Hayashi track are very early in the process of stellar evolution. At the end of a star’s lifetime, on the other hand, one of these general explosive events may occur, leaving behind a neutron star or black hole.
The Hayashi track is a relationship on this doubly eponymous diagram, which compares temperature or color to luminosity. Another band of this diagram is the main sequence.
Hayashi track [begrudgingly accept Hayashi limit; prompt on pre-main sequence phase or PMS phase]
supernovae [or supernovas]
Hertzsprung-Russell Diagram [or HR diagram or HRD] &lt;CL&gt;
It’s not just dragons! For 10 points each, name these real but extinct animals featured in George R. R. Martin’s <em>A Song of Ice and Fire</em> series.
Beyond the Wall, giants ride these hairy animals through the snow. The common name for this tusked animal is a synonym of “large.”
The sigil of House Stark is an animal that went extinct ten thousand years ago, the “dire” form of this animal. This animal shares a middle Pleistocene common ancestor with the modern dingo.
A delicacy common at royal Westerosi feasts are aurochs, a type of these animals which belong to the genus Bos.
woolly mammoth [accept Mammuthus primigenius]
wolf [or wolves; accept Canis lupus]
cattle [accept cows; accept Bos taurus] &lt;AJ&gt;
Two of these particles cannot be separated without using so much energy that it creates new particle-antiparticle pairs. For 10 points each:
Name these elementary particles which were studied by Murray Gell-Mann. Mesons are made of two of these particles, while baryons are made of three.
The six known quark types are distinguished by their values for this quantum number. The value of this quantum number sometimes changes in namesake “oscillations.”
This type of quark is found in kaons and is a member of the second generation of matter. This type of quark has an electric charge of negative one third e.
quarks
flavor
strange [or sideways; accept s] &lt;BC&gt;
Now’s not the time to seize up! For 10 points each, name some things about cesium.
Cesium appears in this group of the periodic table. This group of highly reactive metals is farthest left on the table and also includes lithium, sodium, and rubidium.
One of the most common practical uses of cesium is in the atomic type of this common device, which works because of the use of an electron transition frequency standard.
Cesium-133 is also used when its atoms are in this form after being cooled by a laser. Typically, atoms in this condition are kept at temperatures of under one microkelvin.
alkali metals [do not accept or prompt on “alkaline earth metals”]
atomic/cesium clocks
ultracold atoms [accept word forms; prompt on descriptive answers] &lt;CL&gt;
Phosphate includes one of these bonds. For 10 points each:
Give this type of chemical bond which occurs when an atom shares one of its stray pairs of electrons with a positively charged particle. Thus, in this type of bond, both shared electrons come from the same atom.
When a proton forms a coordinate covalent bond with a molecule of this compound, it produces the positively changed hydronium. This compound is also known as the “universal solvent.”
At 25° Celsius, the value of this quantity for hydronium is 0. This quantity is equal to the negative standard logarithm of the acid dissociation constant, and it appears in the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation.
coordinate covalent bond [accept dative bond; prompt on covalent bond]
water [accept H2O]
pKa (“P K A”) &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
Originally, this field only dealt with the zero-sum type of its namesake thing. For 10 points each:
Name this field of mathematics which examines situations like the prisoner’s dilemma. Important figures in this field include John von Neumann and John Nash.
Before the development of game theory, the study of games led to the development of this mathematical idea in probability theory, the long-run average result of an experiment. In casinos, this quantity is often negative.
The prisoner’s dilemma, along with games like chicken, has this property in its standard form. This property applies to a game for which only opponents’ strategies, not players’ identities, affect a player’s strategies’ outcomes.
game theory
expected value [or expected value; accept EV; accept mathematical expectation; accept first moment; prompt on mean value]
symmetry [accept word forms; accept ordinal symmetry or quantitative symmetry or word forms] &lt;CL&gt;
Hund’s first rule states in part that the lowest energy atomic state maximizes the total value of this quantity in the open subshell. For 10 points each:
Name this form of intrinsic angular momentum that is the fourth quantum number. Electrons can occupy the same orbital provided one of them has a value of up and the other down for this quantity.
This experiment proved the quantization of spin. In this experiment, silver atoms were sent through an inhomogeneous magnetic field to deflect them onto a screen.
The Stern-Gerlach experiment relied on the fact that the silver atoms’ value for this quantity was related to their spin so they would deflect in different directions when they interacted with the magnetic field.
spin angular momentum [do not accept or prompt on “orbital angular momentum”]
Stern-Gerlach experiment
magnetic moment [accept magnetic dipole moment; prompt on mu] &lt;BC&gt;
Isaac Newton sometimes represented this operation by drawing a box around a variable. For 10 points each:
Name this operation in calculus which is colloquially, though not precisely, also known as an antiderivative. The “definite” form of this operation finds the area under a curve over a given domain of inputs.
When finding a function’s integral, sometimes the function and differential must be rewritten in terms of a new function, usually symbolized by this letter. Its uppercase form is also sometimes used to represent potential energy.
This integration technique can be used when the degree of the numerator of a rational function is less than the degree of the denominator. It is performed by factoring the denominator and setting up as many terms as there are unique factors.
integration [accept word forms and equivalents like taking the integral]
u
integration by partial fractions [accept integration by partial fraction decomposition; accept integration by partial fraction expansion] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about parasites that change the behavior of their hosts.
This protist develops in the digestive system of cats and when infecting mice or humans reduces their fear response. It can be spread by contact with cat feces.
Some species in this kingdom, which includes mushrooms, are known to control ants or moths, forcing the hosts to climb to high places before bursting out and releasing the parasite’s spores.
One of these insects injects its venom into a spider, forcing the spider to weave a cocoon for its eggs instead of a web. They are members of the suborder Apocrita, and many of them are in the family Vespidae.
Toxoplasma gondii [accept T. gondii; generously accept Toxoplasmosis]
Fungi [or fungus]
wasps [anti-prompt on yellowjackets or hornets; do not accept or prompt on “bees”] &lt;AJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about members of the genus <em>Homo</em>.
Modern members of the subspecies Homo sapiens sapiens are commonly known by this term. Your moderator is one of these animals, as are you.
This hominid species was likely the first to use fire. Members of these descendants of Homo habilis lived during the Pleistocene Epoch, and “Peking Man” is an example.
Scientists continue to debate whether or not Homo erectus is the same species as this currently distinctly classified species, which has a name meaning “working man.”
humans [prompt on people or persons]
Homo erectus
Homo ergaster [prompt on African Homo erectus] &lt;AJ/CL&gt;
Life is filled with beautiful moments. For 10 points each, name some things about everyone’s favorite one: moment of inertia.
Moment of inertia is the rotational analog of this other quantity. This quantity, often contrasted with weight because it does not depend on the strength of the force of gravity, is measured in kilograms.
This theorem also known as the Huygens-Steiner theorem can be used to solve for moment of inertia through a certain translated axis.
The square root of quantity moment of inertia at the center of mass over mass is equal to this quantity. It is the distance from the axis of rotation to the point where moment of inertia equals the moment of inertia of a highly compacted body with equal mass.
mass
parallel axis theorem [prompt on partial; do not accept or prompt on “perpendicular axis theorem”]
radius of gyration [or gyradius; prompt on radius] &lt;CL&gt;
This rock is a major component of the crust on Mars. For 10 points each:
Name this igneous rock, the extrusive equivalent of plutonic diorite. This rock is usually found at convergent plate boundaries and its name comes from that of a certain mountain range.
Andesite is an intermediate between granite and this other igneous rock. This gray-to-black rock’s composition is dominated by feldspar and it forms the topmost portion of the oceanic crust.
Extrusive igneous rock is typically formed due to eruption of these geographic features, such as Krakatoa.
andesite
basalt
volcanoes [accept word forms] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about allotropes of carbon.
This allotrope of carbon consists of one layer of carbon atoms arranged in a hexagonal lattice. Carbon nanotubes are formed by rolling up a sheet of this allotrope.
Graphene can be layered to form this similarly named allotrope of carbon that conducts electricity. It is commonly found in pencils.
Another allotrope of carbon, buckminsterfullerenes, contains this many carbon atoms. This number is also the atomic number of neodymium.
graphene
graphite [accept plumbago]
sixty &lt;BC&gt;
Answer the following about reactions in organic chemistry, for 10 points each:
The Diels-Alder reaction reacts a diene with one of these compounds. These organic compounds have at least one double bond.
This process saturates hydrocarbons with its namesake element. It usually occurs in the presence of a palladium or platinum catalyst.
This reaction acylates aromatic rings through the reaction of arenes and acyl chlorides using a strong Lewis acid catalyst.
alkenes
hydrogenation
Friedel-Crafts acylation
Answer the following about scanning techniques, for 10 points each:
Name this imaging technique used to observe metabolic activity in humans. It involves the consumption of radioactive tracer to image the body.
This technique uses magnetic fields to image soft tissue. The “functional” type of this technique measures blood flow in the brain to pinpoint brain activity.
MRI uses this paramagnetic contrast agent to image blood vessels. This lanthanide element has atomic number 64 and symbol Gd.
PET scan [or positron-emission tomography scan]
MRI [or magnetic resonance imaging]
gadolinium
Answer the following about a rare astronomical event, for 10 points each:
Name this event that occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and Earth. A “total” one of these events occurred on August 21, 2017.
Viewing this layer of the sun directly can permanently damage the retina, even during an eclipse, because it emits large amounts of visible and invisible radiation. It lies beneath the corona and chromosphere.
Immediately before totality, sunlight passing over the rugged surface of the Moon appears irregular, forming these phenomena, named after an 19th century English astronomer.
solar eclipse [prompt on partial answers]
photosphere
Baily’s beads
Neutralization reactions are examples of them, for 10 points each:
Name this type of reaction in which two compounds exchange their ions or elements.
In the double displacement reaction between sodium bicarbonate and hydrochloric acid, these products are created along with sodium chloride. Name both.
These ions remain unchanged on both sides of an equation. Thus, they are not shown in the net ionic equation for a reaction.
double displacement reaction [or double replacement reaction]
water and carbon dioxide [or H2O and CO2]
spectator ions
These particles annihilate with their normal counterparts. For 10 points each:
Name these particles that have the same mass as normal particles, but opposite charge. The name of this particle for an electron is the positron.
Antiparticles were first predicted to exist by this physicist as negative energy solutions to his relativistic equation. Positrons can be thought of as “holes” in his namesake sea of electrons.
This particle’s antiparticle was found by the Cowan-Reines experiment and, instead of charge, has opposite lepton number and chirality.
antiparticles
Paul Dirac
neutrino
Male and female mallards have differently colored heads, which exhibits this property. For 10 points each:
Name this term for two sexes of the same species exhibiting different physical characteristics.
This mechanism describes how sexual selection increases female preference and the desired trait in a positive feedback cycle. Ronald Fisher proposed this mechanism to describe the evolution of exaggerated male ornamentation.
These organisms exhibit Fisherian runaway, as males of this species have large, iridescent blue and green tail feathers to signal their fitness and attract females.
sexual dimorphism
Fisherian runaway [or runaway selection]
peacocks [or peafowl]
The Drude model describes electron motion in these materials, for 10 points each:
Name these materials that allow the flow of electrical current.
This conductive metal is used in corrosion-free electrical connectors and wires due to its low reactivity. A typical cell phone contains 50 cells worth of this element that has atomic number 79.
This effect is the tendency of alternating current to flow more strongly at the surface of a conductor.
electrical conductors
gold [accept Au]
Skin effect
These storms can interact in the Fujiwhara effect and weaker versions of them are known as tropical depressions. For 10 points each:
Name these storms that form around an eye and have included ones named Andrew and Katrina.
This effect describes how the region around the eye of a hurricane opens up and outwards, similar to their namesake structures.
Hurricanes are usually measured on a 1 through 5 scale based on wind speed named for two scientists. Name either.
hurricanes [accept cyclones and typhoons]
stadium effect
Saffir or Simpson
It forms a carbonyl group when double bonded to a carbon, for 10 points each:
Name this element with atomic number 8, whose triatomic form is ozone.
This 18th century scientist discovered oxygen. This proponent of the phlogiston theory also discovered sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxide.
Priestley referred to oxygen by this two-word phrase, as oxygen was thought to be deprived of phlogiston and, thus, capable of longer combustion.
oxygen
Joseph Priestley
dephlogisticated air [do NOT prompt on just “air”]
Zeckendorf’s theorem states that every positive integer can be written as the sum of one or more of these non-consecutive numbers. For 10 points each:
Name these numbers that often appear in natural patterns. Their sequence is named after an Italian mathematician and begins 1, 1, 2, 3, 5.
Fibonacci numbers define the Wall-Wall-Sun type of these numbers. Fermat’s little theorem is often used to check whether numbers have this property.
The Fibonacci sequence is a specific type of these sequences named for a French mathematician. These sequences can also be used to describe polynomials with integer coefficients.
Fibonacci numbers
prime
Lucas sequences
This neurotransmitter is produced by enterochromaffin cells, for 10 points each:
Name this neurotransmitter that regulates mood, appetite, and sleep. The reuptake of this neurotransmitter is inhibited by SSRIs.
SSRIs like Prozac and Zoloft treat this disorder, commonly characterized by melancholy, anhedonia, and a lack of motivation.
This class of antidepressant drugs can also treat Parkinson’s disease. A subclass of them, called RIMAs, selectively and reversibly inhibit their namesake enzyme.
serotonin [accept 5-hydroxytryptophan]
depression [accept major depressive disorder]
monoamine oxidase inhibitors [accept MAOIs]
Torque equals this quantity times the angular acceleration, for 10 points each:
Name this rotational analog of mass.
The moment of inertia for a solid sphere equals two-fifths times the sphere’s mass times this quantity squared.
The moment of inertia of a rod, rotated about its center, equals this number times the rod’s mass times its radius squared.
moment of inertia [or rotational inertia]
radius of the sphere
1/12
A McCabe-Thiele diagram finds the number of trays needed for one type of this process, for 10 points each:
Name this process of separating liquid mixtures based on their boiling points. Its “fractional” type is used when the compounds’ boiling points differ by less than 25 degrees Celsius.
These mixtures cannot be separated by distillation alone. Nitric acid and water form one of these substances with a composition of 68% nitric acid and 32% water.
This polar two-carbon compound forms an azeotrope with water in a mixture that is 4 percent water and 96 percent [this compound] by mass.
distillation
azeotropes
ethanol [or C2H5OH]
Factor VIIa binds with tissue factor to begin one type of this process, for 10 points each:
Name this process by which blood solidifies to prevent blood loss from a damaged vessel.
This factor, named after a Finnish physician, is deficient in TTP, HUS, and its namesake disease. It binds to other clotting factors, allowing platelets to adhere to wound sites.
This vitamin, abundant in leafy green vegetables, is necessary for the synthesis of clotting factors. Warfarin prevents it from acting on prothrombin.
coagulation [or blood clotting]
Von Willebrand factor [accept vWF]
Vitamin K [accept phylloquinone; accept phytonadione; accept phytomenadione]
This cycle involves producing eggs in the ovaries and releasing them to the uterus to achieve pregnancy, for 10 points each:
Name this reproductive pattern that also includes the shedding of the uterine walls and bleeding, a cycle that repeats approximately every 28 days.
The second phase of the menstrual cycle is named after this hormone which is released from the anterior pituitary along with follicle-stimulating hormone. The “surge” of this hormone induces ovulation.
A large amount of this other hormone is produced by the corpus luteum after ovulation. This hormone prepares the uterus for the implantation of a zygote and causes the thickening of the vaginal epithelium.
menstrual cycle [accept menstruation]
luteinizing hormone [prompt on LH]
progesterone
In the twin paradox, the twin who stays on Earth experiences more of this quantity, and its dilation occurs close to the speed of light. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that Einstein linked with space to form the basis of special relativity.
This doubly-eponymous experiment’s negative result was the first indirect confirmation of time dilation. It modified an earlier experiment by shortening one arm of the original interferometer and proved the speed of light was independent of the velocity of the device.
Kennedy and Thorndike adapted this experiment whose negative result can be explained by length contraction. This landmark experiment also disproved the existence of “luminiferous aether.”
time
Kennedy-Thorndike experiment
Michelson-Morley experiment
Newton’s method finds these values by repeatedly taking the derivative of the function at different points until they are found. For 10 points each:
Name these values, the locations at which a function is equal to zero. Descartes’s rule of signs upper bounds the number of positive and negative examples of them for polynomials.
According to the fundamental theorem of [this branch of mathematics], the degree of a polynomial equals its number of roots considered over the complex plane.
These special types of roots form a cyclic group under multiplication and satisfy equations of the form z to the n equals 1.
roots [prompt on “x-intercepts”]
algebra
roots of unity [accept de Moivre numbers]
Hess’s law states that the change in this quantity for a reaction is independent of the reaction’s number of steps, for 10 points each:
Name this quantity, equal to the internal energy of a system plus the product of pressure and volume. If the change in this quantity for a reaction is positive, the reaction is endothermic.
Enthalpy is conserved in this doubly eponymous throttling process that models a change in a real gas or liquid when it is forced through a valve.
The Joule-Thomson effect calculates the change in this quantity. A Carnot engine transfers heat between two reservoirs with differing values of this quantity.
enthalpy
Joule-Thomson effect [accept Joule-Kelvin effect, Kelvin-Joule effect, and Joule-Thomson expansion]
temperature
Sodium stearate, the most common component of soap, is one of these molecules, for 10 points each:
Name these compounds that lower surface tension between two liquids. They can form emulsions in mixtures of solutions with opposite polarities.
The fatty acid tails of organic surfactant molecules have this property, meaning that they repel water. Nonpolar molecules have this property.
These structures, composed of a lipid bilayer, are formed when surfactants are added to a mixture. Vesicles are examples of these structures, which are often contrasted with micelles.
surfactants
hydrophobicity
liposomes
The Gross-Pitaevskii equation describes the wavefunction for particles in this state, for 10 points each:
Name this doubly eponymous state of matter composed of gases cooled to near-absolute zero temperatures.
Cornell and Wiemann produced the first Bose-Einstein condensate in atoms of this element, an alkali metal with atomic number 37.
In 1938, Fritz London proposed Bose-Einstein condensates as an explanation for this property that can occur in helium-4 when it is cooled to low temperatures.
Bose-Einstein condensate
rubidium
superfluidity
He coined the term “black body” radiation in 1862, for 10 points each:
Name this German physicist, the namesake of two laws. He also discovered caesium and rubidium with Robert Bunsen.
Kirchhoff’s second law states that the sum of this quantity around a loop is zero. According to Ohm’s law, this quantity equals current times resistance.
Kirchhoff names three laws for this technique. This technique can be performed using its “Mössbauer” and “NMR” types.
Gustav Kirchhoff
voltage [accept potential difference]
spectroscopy
The formal definition for the notation named for this letter involves upper bounding functions by a constant times another function. For 10 points each:
Name this letter that appears in the name of a type of notation computer scientists use to represent the worst-case runtime of an algorithm.
If an algorithm runs in constant time then it is said to run in big O of what number?
Mergesort and quicksort both run in big O of what function of n where n is the number of items to be sorted?
big “O”
1
n log n [do NOT prompt on partial answers]
Albert Einstein won a Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on this effect, for 10 points each:
Name this effect in which metals eject electrons upon exposure to electromagnetic radiation.
This physicist’s discovery of the charge of an electron supported Einstein’s model of the photoelectric effect.
This quantity is the energy needed to remove an electron from the Fermi level of a substance. A photon must have energy greater than this quantity to eject an electron.
photoelectric effect
Robert Millikan
work function [prompt on “W”]
The “identity” type of these constructions is square and all elements in its diagonal are equal to one. For 10 points each:
Name these constructions of numbers and variables. These rectangular arrays with rows and columns are often used in linear transformations.
This matrix, named after a German mathematician, is used when calculating integrals with a transformation. It is constructed using all of a vector function’s first-order partial derivatives.
The integrand is multiplied by this function of the Jacobian matrix. For a 2 by 2 matrix, this function is given by AD minus BC.
matrices [or matrix]
Jacobian matrix
determinant
Agostic interactions are examples of these structures, for 10 points each:
Name these structures represented by lines on Lewis diagrams. They represent the sharing of an electron pair between atoms with similar electronegativities.
Molecules with two lone pairs and two covalent bonds have this molecular geometry according to VSEPR theory. Water has this molecular geometry.
Molecules with [read slowly:] three bonds and two lone pairs have this molecular geometry, with bond angles of 90 degrees.
covalent bonds [prompt on “bonds”]
bent
T-shaped
This disease is caused by a PolyQ tract on chromosome 4, for 10 points each:
Name this inherited disorder characterized by jerky, uncontrolled movements known as its namesake chorea.
Huntington’s is caused by this two-word type of mutation, indicating that it is not sex-linked and that the child of an infected person has a 100% chance of inheriting the disease if the parent is homozygous.
The severity of Huntington’s increases with the repetition of this codon, which codes for glutamine, on the HTT gene. If it is repeated more than 40 times, disease onset will occur under age 20.
Huntington’s disease
autosomal dominant [prompt on partial answers]
CAG [or cytosine adenine guanine]
The MELD score estimates the likely survival of patients with a disease of this organ, for 10 points each:
Name this organ that detoxifies blood, breaking down compounds like alcohol. Jaundice is caused by the failure of this organ.
Excessive alcohol intake and hepatitis can cause this condition in which normal liver tissue is replaced by scar tissue, causing long-term liver damage.
Cirrhosis and other liver diseases can cause this condition, the accumulation of fluid in the abdomen. It gives the appearance of pregnancy and is treated with paracentesis or diuretics.
liver
cirrhosis
ascites
This event is hypothesized to have occurred following the Big Bang and led to an exponential increase in the size of the universe. For 10 points each:
Name this theory of exponential expansion, proposed by Alan Guth and Andrei Linde, that offers a solution to the magnetic monopole, flatness, and horizon problems.
BICEP2 was thought to have discovered evidence for cosmic inflation by analyzing gravitational waves in this region. This region that fills all of the universe consists of a namesake electromagnetic radiation left over from the Big Bang.
The CMB formed after this epoch, in which electrons and protons cooled enough to form neutral hydrogen atoms.
cosmic inflation theory
cosmic microwave background [accept CMBR; accept the answer with “radiation” at the end, but inform the player that the region is technically just the CMB]
recombination
Answer the following about antibiotics, for 10 points each:
This compound was the first antibiotic isolated, discovered by Alexander Fleming. Resistance to this beta-lactam antibiotic is now widespread due to its extensive use.
This gram-positive bacterium is the most common cause of hospital-acquired infection. It can cause endocarditis and toxic shock syndrome.
Though this beta-lactam antibiotic was once used to treat Staph aureus, strains of Staph resistant to it, which are known by a four-letter acronym, are now widespread in hospitals, rendering this drug obsolete.
penicillin
Staphylococcus aureus [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus]
methicillin
The Antoine equation estimates this quantity for a pure substance, for 10 points each:
Name this quantity denoting the pressure exerted by a gas in equilibrium with its condensed state. The depression of this quantity is a colligative property.
This law, named for a French chemist, calculates the vapor pressure of a mixture as the sum of the partial vapor pressures of the mixture’s components.
This constant, symbolized i, is equal to the number of ions in a formula unit of a solute. It is used to calculate other colligative properties, like elevation of boiling point.
vapor pressure
Raoult’s law
Van’t Hoff factor
For 10 points each:
Name this force that is perpendicular to the surface that an object contacts. On a flat surface, this force equals the weight of the object.
To move an object lying on a flat surface from rest, one must exert more force than the normal force times this quantity.
Pencil and paper ready. For an object weighing 10 newtons on a ramp with an inclination of 60 degrees, what is the normal force exerted by the object?
normal force
coefficient of static friction [or mu]
5 newtons
Carrageenans are polysaccharides that make up this structure in algae, for 10 points each:
Name this rigid structure that surrounds the cell membrane in plant cells. The primary type of this structure in plants is composed of pectin and cellulose.
This outermost layer of the cell wall forms the boundary between two plant cells, adhering them together. During fruit ripening, enzymes degrade this layer.
This polymer forms the cell wall of most bacteria. It is responsible for 90% of the dry weight of Gram-positive bacteria.
cell wall
middle lamella
peptidoglycan [accept murein]
This quantity is measured in teslas, for 10 points each:
Name this type of field that can be created by objects with a north and south pole. It is symbolized B or H.
This law relates the magnitude, direction, and length of an electric current to its induced magnetic field.
This law, named for a Frenchman, states that the magnetic field around a closed loop is proportional to the current in the loop. It is one of Maxwell’s equations.
magnetic field
Biot-Savart law
Ampère’s circuital law
Buchner funnels are often used to perform this action in the presence of a vacuum, for 10 points each:
Name this mechanical process used to separate solids from liquids.
These solids absorb water, and are often used to remove water from solvents. Examples of them include silica gel, activated charcoal, and calcium chloride.
These desiccants, widely used to dry laboratory solvents, have pores of uniform size and absorb small molecules. These porous spheres are also used in chromatography.
filtration [accept specific answers like gravity filtration and vacuum filtration]
desiccants
molecular sieves
This period is named for a mountain range in the European Alps, for 10 points each:
Name this geologic period, known for its dinosaurs, that followed the Triassic period and preceded the Cretaceous period.
The Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods make up this era, known as the Age of Reptiles. It began with the Permian-Triassic extinction event.
The Mesozoic era was also known as the “Age of [these organisms].” These plants make up the division Pinophyta.
Jurassic period
Mesozoic era
conifers [accept Coniferophyta and Coniferae; prompt on “gymnosperms”]
A version of this law multiplies the compliance tensor by the strain tensor, for 10 points each:
Name this law stating that the force needed to extend or compress a spring is proportional to its deformation.
These instruments measure the deformation of a spring using Hooke’s law in order to measure mass or weight, which they can display in newtons, pounds, or kilograms.
This quantity, the measure of the stiffness of a solid material, equals the ratio of stress to strain. It represents the factor of proportionality in Hooke’s law.
Hooke’s law
spring scales [or spring balances]
Young’s modulus [accept elastic modulus]
<em>Note to moderator: Ask players to spell “imine” if necessary. Answer the following about functional groups in organic chemistry, for 10 points each:</em>
These fragrant compounds are responsible for the aromas of apples and bananas. Emil Fischer names a reaction that produces them.
Fischer esterification forms esters using these compounds and an alcohol with an acid catalyst. Their general formula is R-COOH.
This functional group contains a carbon-nitrogen double bond. They can be reduced to amines via hydrogenation.
esters
carboxylic acids
imine [accept Schiff base; do not accept or prompt on “amine”]
This scientist names a space telescope launched in 1990 that took the <em>Pillars of Creation</em> photograph. For 10 points each:
Name this astronomer who discovered that the universe is expanding.
Hubble’s law states that the recessional velocity of a galaxy from us is equal to his namesake constant times this quantity.
The reciprocal of Hubble’s constant has units of time and represents what value, approximately 13.8 billion years?
Edwin Hubble
distance of galaxy from Earth
the age of the universe [accept obvious equivalents]
Help! Your moderator has collapsed, clutching their chest, and you must save them to maintain your PPG streak. For 10 points each:
Your moderator is probably suffering from one of these events, in which blood flow is cut off to a part of the heart.
You should begin this action on your moderator, to restore partial flow of oxygenated blood to their vital organs. You must perform this action 100 to 120 times per minute.
This explosive nitrate compound, given intravenously or sublingually, dilates blood vessels, increasing the likelihood of surviving a heart attack.
heart attack [accept myocardial infarction; do not accept “cardiac arrest”]
chest compression [accept obvious equivalents like compressing the chest; prompt on “CPR”]
nitroglycerin
The square of this quantity is the probability density per unit volume, according to the Copenhagen Interpretation. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, symbolized psi, that describes the quantum state and behavior of a particle.
This physicist names an equation stating that the Hamiltonian of the wavefunction equals the total energy times the wavefunction. His namesake cat is a thought experiment demonstrating quantum superposition.
A no-go theorem first articulated by Wootters, Zurek, and Dieks in 1982 states that performing this action on an unknown quantum state, like Schrödinger’s cat, is impossible.
wavefunction
Erwin Schrödinger
cloning [accept obvious equivalents]
TAPS and Tris are examples of these solutions, for 10 points each:
Name these solutions that resist changes in pH. They often consist of a weak acid and its conjugate base.
This equation states that the pH of a buffer is equal to pKa plus the log of conjugate base concentration over weak acid concentration.
The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation can be used to find this point, the pH at which a molecule carries no charge, for proteins.
buffers
Henderson-Hasselbalch equation [accept Henderson-Hasselbach equation]
isoelectric point
The RRS James Cook and the Japanese probe Chikyu tried to obtain samples from this region, for 10 points each:
Name this largest layer of the Earth that lies below the crust and above the outer core.
This boundary between the crust and the mantle is named for its Croatian discoverer. At mid-ocean ridges, it also defines the boundary between the lithosphere and asthenosphere.
This layer separates the mantle from the core. This layer may consist of a new mineral called post-perovskite.
mantle
Mohorovičić discontinuity
D double-prime layer [or D’’ layer]
Zeitgebers like light and temperature are responsible for modulating these patterns. For 10 points each:
Name these endogenously generated rhythms that happen on a 24-hour basis. Jetlag occurs when these biological patterns are out of sync with the environment.
Input from light travels through the retinohypothalamic tract to this structure within the hypothalamus. It uses the oscillations of proteins like TIM and PER to regulate circadian rhythms.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus regulates this gland that secretes melatonin to control sleep patterns. René Descartes believed this small gland between the brain’s hemispheres to be the seat of the soul.
circadian rhythms
suprachiasmatic nucleus [accept SCN]
pineal gland
Dmitrii Blokhintsev and F. M. Gal’perin first theorized this particle in 1934. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothetical spin-2 particle that mediates its namesake force.
Gravitons are examples of these particles that carry fundamental interactions of nature. Examples of them include the photon and gluon, and they all have integer spins.
These quasiparticles represent the collective vibrations of a crystal structure. Peter Debye proposed these particles to predict heat capacity at low temperatures.
graviton
gauge bosons [prompt on partial answers]
phonons
Rossby waves cause sudden warming in this zone, for 10 points each:
Name this ozone-containing layer of Earth’s atmosphere that lies above the troposphere and below the mesosphere.
These halogenated compounds, used as refrigerants and propellants, cause ozone depletion in the stratosphere, which led the Montreal Protocol to phase them out.
This unit of measurement that measures the amount of gas in a vertical column of air is primarily used to measure the amount of atmospheric ozone.
stratosphere
chlorofluorocarbons [or CFCs]
Dobson unit
The Butler-Volmer equation is a modification of this equation, for 10 points each:
Name this equation, named for a German scientist, that calculates the redox potential of an electrochemical cell.
This equation, a derivation of the Nernst equation, calculates the electrical potential of a cell membrane.
The Nernst equation relates this quantity to the electromotive force in a galvanic cell. When this quantity for a reaction is negative, the reaction is spontaneous.
Nernst equation
Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation
Gibbs free energy
Diverticulitis is the inflammation of pouches in this organ, for 10 points each:
Name this digestive organ that contains four sections and ends at the rectum. It is often contrasted with its “small” type.
This inflammatory bowel disease results in a patient’s immune system attacking the gastrointestinal tract, most aggressively in the terminal ileum of the small intestine.
People who perform this action are more likely to develop Crohn’s disease. Though it increases the severity of Crohn’s, this action decreases the severity of ulcerative colitis.
large intestine [accept colon]
Crohn’s disease
smoking tobacco [accept obvious equivalents]
Newton’s cradle demonstrates the conservation of energy and this quantity, for 10 points each:
Name this quantity equal to the product of an object’s mass and velocity.
In this type of collision, momentum is conserved. However, kinetic energy is not conserved in this type of collision, due to internal friction.
This quantity, symbolized J, is the change in momentum. It also equals the integral of force with respect to time.
linear momentum [accept translational momentum]
inelastic collision [do not accept or prompt on “elastic collision”]
impulse
Answer the following about easily-visible stars in the night sky, for 10 points each:
Name this star found at the end of the Little Dipper. It is also called the North Star.
This red supergiant is the ninth-brightest star in the night sky and the second-brightest in the Orion constellation. It marks the center of the Winter Hexagon.
Though this red dwarf star is not easily-visible from Earth, it is the closest star to the Sun at approximately 4.25 light-years away.
Polaris [accept Alpha Ursae Minoris; prompt on “Ursa Minor”]
Betelgeuse [accept Alpha Orionis]
Proxima Centauri [accept Alpha Centauri C]
Gold and silver bands on these devices signify their tolerance, for 10 points each:
Name these devices used to dissipate electrical power as heat. Their namesake quantity is measured in ohms.
This quantity, symbolized Z, is a form of resistance applied to AC circuits. Its imaginary part is reactance, and its reciprocal is admittance.
This structure contains four resistors and a voltmeter set up in a diamond shape. This circuit is used to accurately measure the unknown resistance of one resistor.
resistors
electrical impedance
Wheatstone bridge
This organelle is surrounded by a membrane called the tonoplast in plants, for 10 points each:
Name this organelle, formed by the fusion of multiple vesicles, that store water containing inorganic and organic molecules.
In plants, vacuoles maintain this property of a plant cell through osmosis. It is defined as the force within the cell that pushes the cell membrane against the cell wall.
These membrane proteins regulate the flow of water into and out of the cell. Peter Agre won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2003 for their discovery.
vacuole
Turgor pressure [accept hydrostatic pressure]
aquaporins
This adjective names a type of programming in which problems are often solved using the simplex algorithm. For 10 points each:
Name this adjective that refers to problems in which one maximizes an objective function subject to constraints often given by some matrix A times the variables less than or equal to B.
The “feasible region” for solutions to linear programming problems fall within a polytope described by this adjective. It is usually contrasted with concave.
One of Karp’s 21 NP-complete problems is the decision version of a type of linear programming in which the unknown variables are restricted to being these kinds of numbers.
linear
convex
integers
Synonymous examples of them change an organism’s genotype but not its phenotype, for 10 points each:
Name this permanent alteration of the genome, which can be caused by errors during DNA replication or other forms of DNA damage.
This protein suppresses tumors by arresting the cell at the G1/S checkpoint and initiating apoptosis in damaged cells, for which it is nicknamed the “guardian angel of the genome.”
This subfamily of proteins, part of the “small GTPase” class, can cause cancer when their expression is increased. Mutations in these proteins are found in 20% of all cancers.
mutations
tumor protein 53
Ras [prompt on “HRas”, “KRas”, and NRas]
Carbon monoxide contains one of these bonds, for 10 points each:
Name this type of bond formed when two atoms share six electrons. Alkynes are hydrocarbons with at least one of these bonds.
Two atoms with this hybridization typically form a triple bond. Each carbon atom in acetylene possesses this hybridization.
This type of molecular orbital weakens the bond between two atoms, raising the energy of the molecule relative to the separated atoms.
triple bond [prompt on “covalent bond”]
sp hybridization [do not prompt on “sp2” or “sp3”]
antibonding molecular orbital
The “total internal” type of this phenomenon occurs when light hits a medium with a lower refractive index and no light passes into the second medium. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which light bounces off a boundary. Its angle is equal to the angle of incidence.
This is the angle above which total internal reflection occurs. It is calculated using Snell’s Law as the angle of incidence for which the angle of refraction is equal to 90 degrees.
These equations can be used to calculate the reflectance and transmittance of polarized light. The namesake of these equations also named the equation for near-field diffraction.
reflection
critical angle
Fresnel equations
Answer the following about cool physics toys, for 10 points each:
Name these devices that are spinning discs or wheels whose axes of rotation are unaffected by tilting or rotation. They are mounted in two or three gimbals.
These machines, often found in physics classrooms, utilize a moving belt to build electric charge on a metal globe, thus generating high voltage with low current.
These novelty toys generate tendrils of colored light within a clear plastic orb. When they are touched with a conductive object, like a hand, the energy flow to the contact point intensifies.
gyroscopes
Van de Graaff generators
plasma globes [accept plasma balls and plasma lamps]
This shape’s namesake coordinate system is based on rho, theta, and phi, and its equation in Cartesian coordinates is “x squared plus y squared plus z squared equals r squared.” For 10 points each:
Name this 3D version of a circle, a shape constructed using all points the same distance from a given center.
This theorem in topology states that any simply-connected, closed 3-manifold is homeomorphic to the 3-sphere. Grigori Perelman solved this conjecture using Ricci flow.
The Poincaré conjecture is the only solved problem in this list from the Clay Mathematics Institute. Other important problems in this list include P versus NP and the Riemann Hypothesis.
2-sphere
Poincaré conjecture
Millennium prize problems
Answer the following about hunger regulation in the brain. For 10 points each.
This structure controls the pituitary gland to regulate homeostatic functions like thirst, body temperature, and hunger.
This hormone activates the arcuate nucleus to increase feeding behaviours by releasing neuropeptide Y and AgRP. This “hunger hormone” counteracts the satiating effects of leptin.
This other hormone and neurotransmitter opposes ghrelin by stimulating the vagus nerve to suppress hunger. In the digestive system, it is released from I cells in the small intestine.
hypothalamus
ghrelin
cholecystokinin [accept CCK]
Answer the following about a certain alkali metal. For 10 points each:
Name this element with symbol K and atomic number 19.
This scientist discovered potassium by deriving it from caustic potash. He also discovered calcium and magnesium.
Davy employed this technique to isolate alkali and alkali earth metals. Michael Faraday names two laws governing this process.
potassium
Humphry Davy
electrolysis
The roots of this shape can be found using the quadratic formula, for 10 points each:
Name this shape traced by degree-two polynomials like y equals x squared.
Parabolas are also defined as the set of points where the distance from the focus to the point equals the distance from this line to the point.
Parabolas, along with ellipses and hyperbolas, are examples of this class of shapes. They are all obtained through the intersection of a plane with its namesake shape.
parabola
directrix
conic sections
A large-scale one of these events is called a pandemic. For 10 points each:
Name this sudden and rapid spread of diseases that affect large numbers of people over a wide geographic area. While this term usually refers to infectious diseases, it has also been used to describe obesity and opioid use.
This term refers to infectious diseases that are transmittable from animals to humans. Examples of these diseases include swine flu, rabies, and Lyme disease.
Epidemiologists use this scientist’s namesake criteria to determine if observed epidemiologic associations are causal. This scientist also demonstrated that cigarette smoking increased the risk of lung cancer.
epidemics
zoonosis (accept word forms)
Austin Bradford Hill &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about photochemistry:
One important branch of photochemistry aims to elucidate this sequence of events that take place as a reaction proceeds. It is composed of elementary steps, and can be illustrated via arrow pushing.
These chemical species with an unpaired valence electron usually mediate photodegradation. AIBN and benzoyl peroxide are initiators that readily produce these highly reactive species.
Chemists use this doubly-eponymous set of rules to determine the products of electrocyclic reactions under photochemical control. One of its namesakes published total syntheses of cholesterol and chlorophyll.
reaction mechanisms
free radicals
Woodward-Hoffmann rules &lt;Park&gt;
The first updated research on this process since Greco-Roman antiquity was done by Ibn al-Nafis. For 10 points each:
Name this anatomical process that was first fully understood by William Harvey, who published his study of cardiac physiology De Motu Cordis. Previous thought had believed “natural” and “vital” systems coordinated the distribution of heat through this process.
Before Harvey, much of the popular thought on physiology was based on the work of this Roman physician. This physician built on the work of Hippocrates, and he popularized the theory of the humors.
The theory of humors proposed that the body relied on four major substances: blood, phlegm, and these two other substances. Name both.
circulation of blood
Galen
black and yellow bile (prompt on just bile; accept either order) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This quantity for a light source is equal to intensity times four <em>pi</em> times the distance squared. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. It’s also defined as work over time.
This SI unit for power is named after a Scottish engineer due to his invention of the quite “power”-ful steam engine. Most light bulbs are rated in terms of this unit.
The average power for electromagnetic waves can be found by integrating this vector over one period to get this vector’s time averaged form. This vector is equal to electric field crossed with the magnetic field’s auxiliary field vector.
power
Watt (prompt on “uppercase W”)
Poynting vector &lt;Jin&gt;
Name some commonly used techniques in calculus, for 10 points each:
You can use this technique to solve some integral by putting them in the form f(g(x))g’(x) dx [“f of g of x times g-prime of x times dx”], where g(x) is sometimes called u. Using this technique is equivalent to applying the chain rule in reverse.
Sometimes, it’s easier to integrate using polar coordinates, in which each point is defined by its distance from the origin and this quantity symbolized by the Greek letter theta.
When converting between different coordinate systems, you need to change the variables accordingly. As a result, you multiply the integrand by this quantity named after a German mathematician.
u-substitution (or integration by substitution)
angle (or angular coordinate)
Jacobian determinant (or determinant of the Jacobian matrix; do not accept or prompt on just “Jacobian matrix” since that is not a quantity) &lt;Xiong&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about inorganic chemistry:
Many coordination complexes exhibit this property, in which molecules have the same chemical formula but different chemical structures. The presence of ambidentate ligands can result in the linkage form of this property.
Coordination complexes that satisfy a rule named after this number of electrons are typically less reactive, since they have the same electron configuration as the corresponding noble gas.
This class of reactions can be described as “inner-sphere” or “outer-sphere” depending on the presence of a covalent bridge between the two redox centers.
isomerism (accept word forms)
18 (accept 18-electron rule)
electron transfer &lt;Park&gt;
This scientist got the last laugh after the emergence of epigenetics. For 10 points each:
Name this French biologist, whose belief in the inheritance of acquired characteristics was ridiculed by the followers of Charles Darwin. This scientist also made significant contributions to invertebrate classification.
A popular classroom example of Darwinian evolution is industrial melanism observed in this order of insects. Both moths and butterflies are members of this order whose larval stage is called the caterpillar.
This two-word phrase describes the fusion of Darwinian evolution and Mendelian genetics in the early 20th century. This unified theory of evolution emphasized changes in allele frequencies within populations.
Jean-Baptiste Pierre Antoine de Monet, Chevalier de Lamarck
Lepidoptera (or lepidopterans)
modern synthesis &lt;Park&gt;
This technique can detect wagging, rocking, and scissoring. For 10 points each:
Name this type of spectroscopy. It uses and is named after the type of light with a wavelength greater than visible light.
The x-axis of an infrared spectrum is usually given in inverse centimeters, or these units, which are the reciprocal of wavelength. This unit refers to the number of cycles per unit distance.
A vibrational mode is considered IR active if there is a change in this quantity of a molecule, which is expressed in Debye units. It’s not polarity, but polar molecules have nonzero values for this quantity.
infrared spectroscopy (or IR spectroscopy; accept vibrational spectroscopy)
wavenumbers (prompt on lowercase k)
dipole moment (prompt on just dipole or moment) &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about astrophysics:
This quantity refers to the amount of time needed for an object to make one complete revolution around another object. For Earth, this quantity is approximately equal to 365.26 solar days.
This law states the square of the orbital period is proportional to the cube of the orbit’s semi-major axis. This law was also called the “harmonic law” by its formulator.
All orbits have a semi-major axis, since Kepler’s first law implies that all orbits have this shape. This oval-shaped conic section has an eccentricity between 0 and 1, and circles are examples of these shapes with an eccentricity of 0.
orbital period (or sidereal period; do not accept or prompt on other specific types of periods)
Kepler’s third law (prompt on Kepler’s laws)
ellipse &lt;Xiong&gt;
For a gas expanding against a constant external pressure, this value is proportional to the negative change in volume. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity in classical mechanics representing the force performed upon an object. It has units of force times distance.
A force field has this property if the work done is independent of the actual path taken and only the starting and ending points matter. A vector field with this property has a vanishing curl everywhere.
This quantity is the amount of work that can be extracted from a closed system at constant volume and temperature. It achieves a minimum value at isochoric chemical equilibrium.
work (or uppercase W)
conservative (accept word forms)
Helmholtz free energy (prompt on just “free energy”) &lt;Pendyala&gt;
In some cases of glaucoma, damage to this structure is caused by elevated intraocular pressure. For 10 points each:
Name this structure responsible for transmitting visual information to the brain. The blind spot corresponds to the location where this structure passes through the optic disc.
The optic nerve receives impulses from ganglion cells located in this light-sensitive region of the eye. This tissue is home to photoreceptor cells like rods and cones.
The two optic nerves cross at the optic chiasma, which is adjacent to the supraoptic nucleus of this structure. Its parvocellular neurosecretory cells produce the hormones TRH and CRH.
optic nerve
retina
hypothalamus &lt;Park&gt;
Bioactive forms of these compounds include GA1 and GA3. For 10 points each:
Name these plant hormones that regulate stem elongation, leaf expansion, and trichome development. They were first discovered by Eiichi Kurosawa while he was studying foolish seedling disease.
Gibberellins are also important to this process, in which a seedling sprouts from a seed after a period of dormancy. Other factors that affect this process include moisture levels and temperature.
Gibberellin signalling involves the proteasomal destruction of these proteins, which localize in the nucleus and are thought to act as transcriptional regulators. Members of this family of proteins include RGA and GAI.
gibberellins
germination (accept word forms)
DELLA proteins &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about French chemist Paul Sabatier:
The products of the Sabatier process are methane and this polar inorganic compound. The Fischer-Tropsch process is sometimes coupled with this compound’s namesake gas-shift reaction.
Sabatier studied catalysts described by this adjective, whose phases are different from the reactants and products. Mixtures described by this adjective are not uniform in composition.
Sabatier shared the 1912 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Victor Grignard, whose namesake reagents contain this alkaline earth metal. The sulfate of this metal is Epsom salt.
water (accept dihydrogen monoxide)
heterogeneous
magnesium (prompt on Mg) &lt;Park&gt;
Given a square matrix, the Cayley-Hamilton theorem states that plugging the matrix into this polynomial will result in the zero matrix. For 10 points each:
Name this polynomial, which has solutions equal to the eigenvalues of a square matrix.
The characteristic polynomial of a matrix A can be computed as this operation of tI-A [“t times the identity matrix minus A”]. This operation is commonly computed for a two by two matrix as ad-bc [“a d minus b c”].
Speaking of the identity matrix, the identity matrix consists of this value down the diagonal and zero everywhere else. Consequently, multiplying the identity matrix by any matrix A gives A back.
characteristic polynomial (or characteristic equation)
determinant
one &lt;Xiong&gt;
This law is a only a first order approximation of the real action of springs. For 10 points each:
Name this law which states that the force of a spring equals negative the spring constant times displacement.
A system that obeys Hooke’s Law undergoes the “simple” kind of this motion. The simple kind of this motion is exemplified by pendula and springs.
Systems of coupled oscillators can exhibit the “normal” kind of this motion where all oscillators move with the same frequency. Generally, any motion of a system is a superposition of the “normal” ones of these states.
Hooke’s Law
simple harmonic motion (accept simple harmonic oscillator; accept SHM or SHO)
normal modes &lt;Jin&gt;
Answer some questions about the wonderful world of pharmacology, for 10 points each:
The Caco-2 permeability assay is used to model the absorption of drugs in this organ, which is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. This organ is connected to its “large” companion at the ileocecal junction.
In pharmacokinetics, Cmax refers to the peak drug concentration in this substance. This yellowish liquid is distinguished from serum due to the absence of clotting factors like fibrinogen.
Genetic polymorphisms in this superfamily of drug-metabolizing proteins affect how different populations respond to certain drugs. Grapefruit juice and St. John’s wort inhibit the 3A4 isoform of these proteins.
small intestine
blood plasma
cytochrome P450 monooxygenases &lt;Park&gt;
This scientist devised a method to calculate lattice energies with Fritz Haber. For 10 points each:
Name this German physicist, whose contributions to quantum mechanics include matrix mechanics and an approximation he co-names with J. Robert Oppenheimer.
The Born-Oppenheimer approximation considers this quantity of the nucleus to be negligible. The Hamiltonian is the sum of potential energy and this quantity, which has rotational and translational forms.
Max Born also devised a coordinate chart for this manifold from the perspective of an observer rotating rapidly at relativistic speeds. This 4D spacetime is flat, and has a metric which is diagonal with one timelike and three spacelike components.
Max Born
kinetic energy
Minkowski spacetime &lt;Park&gt;
The cycloalkane with this many carbon atoms features bent bonds, which are more interestingly known as banana bonds. For 10 points each:
Give this number of carbon atoms in cyclopropane, the simplest cycloalkane. Cyclopropane has high ring strain because of the amount of energy need to constrain a ring out of only this many carbon atoms.
One reason for cyclopropane’s high ring strain is the fact that all of its hydrogens are in this conformation, in contrast to the staggered conformation. The torsion angle is exactly zero in this conformation.
The Simmons-Smith cyclopropanation reaction uses a substituted methane containing two atoms of this element, whose bond with carbon is the weakest among the halogens.
three
eclipsed conformation
iodine (prompt on I) &lt;Park&gt;
A “double” one of these events occurs in flowering plants. For 10 points each:
Name this key event of sexual reproduction, in which two haploid gametes fuse to produce a diploid zygote. Depending on where this event happens, it can be described as “internal” or “external.”
During fertilization, this process is triggered when the zona pellucida surrounding the ovum binds an incoming spermatozoon. In IVF, the addition of calcium ionophores like A23187 can induce this process.
In addition to providing the haploid paternal genome, sperm cells also contribute to these cylindrical organelles. These structures found in centrosomes are usually found in a “9+3” structure of microtubules.
fertilization
acrosome reaction
centrioles &lt;Park&gt;
This phase of matter still occurs in the absence of interparticle interactions and is thus termed a “statistical” phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this ultracold phase of matter that was first physically realized by Ketterle in 1995 in a gas of sodium-23 atoms.
Sodium-23 was used in part because when its nuclear and electronic spins are added they produce a number of this type. Bosons are defined by having the property that their spin is in this class of numbers, in contrast to fermions.
Bose-Einstein condensation is not a spatial condensation like the gas-liquid transition, but is instead said to be a condensation in the “phase space” of this variable. In classical mechanics, this quantity for an object is equal to its mass times its velocity.
Bose-Einstein condensate
integer spin (accept whole number, natural number)
momentum (accept either linear or angular momentum) &lt;Pendyala&gt;
Answer some bonus questions about scientific concepts containing the term “retrograde”, for 10 points each:
Along with Uranus, this planet exhibits retrograde motion since it orbits the Sun in a direction opposite to the Sun’s own rotation. This planet is known as Earth’s “sister planet.”
The neuroscience technique of retrograde tracing relies on axo-plasmic transport to carry fluoro-phores from the synapse to this part of the neuron, which is home to Nissl bodies and the axon hillock.
In carbohydrate chemistry, the process of retrogradation involves these two components of starch. They’re not cellulose or glycogen, but these two polysaccharides can be found in specialized amyloplasts.
Venus
soma (or cell body)
amylose and amylopectin &lt;Park&gt;
Major accomplishments in this field include the victories of IBM Watson and AlphaGo. For 10 points each:
Name this field of computer science that studies how machines can be made to perform human tasks.
One common AI task is this process of assigning a label to some input data, given a training set of labels and data. The perceptron algorithm is one method of accomplishing the “binary” type of this task.
A common approach to classifying text such as emails or tweets is to use this technique that measures the frequencies of words. The website QuizDB combines this technique with normalization to subject categorize quizbowl questions.
artificial intelligence (or AI; accept machine intelligence or MI; anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on “machine learning” or “ML”)
classification (accept word forms)
bag-of-words &lt;Xiong&gt;
The continuous and discontinuous series are found on this diagram. For 10 points each:
Name this “reaction series” that serves as the general model for magma evolution during the cooling process. This diagram ranks minerals based on their crystallization temperature.
This group of minerals is found at the top of the discontinuous series in Bowen’s reaction series. Members of this green-colored mineral group include forsterite, fayalite, and monticellite.
Olivines are part of this class of minerals, which include pyroxenes and amphiboles. Minerals in this class make up most of the Earth’s crust, and they contain varying amounts of silicon and oxygen.
Bowen’s reaction series
olivines (accept olivine group or olivine series)
silicates &lt;Park&gt;
The destruction of these locations is the primary anthropogenic cause of species extinctions. For 10 points each:
Name these areas which are the natural environment of an organism. These locations come in many varieties, such as terrestrial, freshwater, and marine ones.
This sequence of community and ecosystem changes after a disturbance usually results in a climax community. Its secondary form occurs in areas where the soil remains after events like forest fires and hurricanes.
Primary ecological succession is initiated by these organisms, which include plants, lichen, and fungi. These organisms promote soil formation, paving the way for more complex plant and animal species.
habitats
ecological succession
pioneer species (accept word forms) &lt;Park&gt;
This scientist, and not Einstein, was actually the first to describe relativity’s twin paradox. For 10 points each:
Name this French physicist. His namesake dynamics uses stochastic differential equations to describe the motion of particles, such as his namesake equation that can be used to describe Brownian motion.
Langevin had an affair with this scientist after the death of her husband Pierre. This woman won Nobels in Physics and Chemistry for her work on radiation and discovery of several new elements.
Langevin also names a function to calculate the net magnetization of materials with this type of magnetization. Materials with this property exhibit attraction only when an external field is applied, and it’s often contrasted with ferro- and diamagnetism.
Paul Langevin
Marie Curie (or Maria Salomea Skłodowska)
paramagnetism (accept word forms) &lt;Park&gt;
You just started research at a chemistry lab and notice that vacuums are everywhere. For 10 points each:
These devices use a vacuum pump and heating bath to remove organic solvents from your sample. Improper use of this device can potentially result in “bumping” and decrease your overall yield.
The vacuum form of this technique uses a namesake “paper” and lab equipment named after Ernst Büchner. This technique separates solids from fluids, and can be achieved simply with gravity.
Vacuum conditions are typically required in this technique to minimize scattering of the namesake lepton beam. This technique also has “scanning” and “transmission” variants.
rotary evaporators (accept rotavaps)
filtration (accept word forms)
electron microscopy (or EM) &lt;Park&gt;
This scientist calculated the rates of spontaneous emission and stimulated emission for a two-level quantum system using the detailed balance framework. For 10 points each:
Give this physicist that names those “A” and “B” coefficients important in the study of blackbody radiation.
Einstein is most famous for his work on special relativity, in which he proposed that E is equal to m times this quantity squared.
Einstein won the Nobel for his explanation of this effect. In it, electrons are ejected from light shot at a metal surface with an energy equal to the photon energy minus a “work function.”
Albert Einstein
lowercase c (or speed of light)
photoelectric effect &lt;Jin&gt;
Guar gum, benzene, and cobalt-60 can be found in a fluid used in this technique. For 10 points each:
Name this technique in which high-pressure fluid is injected into rock to create fissures. While it’s most commonly associated with shale gas extraction, this technique is also used to stimulate groundwater wells.
Hydraulic fracturing can induce small-scale examples of these seismic events. The moment magnitude scale and the Richter scale measure the intensity of these events that cause the Earth’s surface to shake.
These geologic features are an example of natural hydraulic fractures. These discordant intrusive sheets cut through pre-existing layers of rock, and come in clastic and magmatic varieties.
hydraulic fracturing (or fracking; accept word forms)
earthquakes
dikes (or dykes) &lt;Park&gt;
One hypothesis states that the mutation responsible for this disease confers resistance to cholera. For 10 points each:
Name this disease caused by mutations in the gene ABCC7. The sweat test is used to screen for this condition.
ABCC7, better known as CFTR, encodes a channel for these anions, which play an important role in the action potentials of both plants. Normal saline contains 154 milliequivalents per liter of sodium and this anion.
This prenatal test is used to diagnose cystic fibrosis and other genetic diseases like Down syndrome. Unlike chorionic villus sampling, this technique requires a small sample of amniotic fluid.
cystic fibrosis (or CF)
chloride (do not accept or prompt on “chlorine”)
amniocentesis &lt;Park&gt;
Comparison-based methods for this task must take <em>at least</em> O(n log n) [“big O of n log n”] time. For 10 points each:
Give this task that takes an array of numbers and arranges them from least to greatest.
Perhaps the most famous sort is this one with a “speedy” name developed by Tony Hoare. It relies on the choice of a pivot, which can heavily affect its performance.
A more basic sort is the insertion sort. The worst-case time complexity for insertion sort is this specific configuration of an array.
sorting
quicksort
reverse sorted order (or backwards sorted order; prompt on reversed or backwards alone; do not accept or prompt on “sorted” alone) &lt;Xiong&gt;
The microBooNE experiment operates a liquid argon time projection chamber to detect these particles. For 10 points each:
Name these extremely small, uncharged particles. Their name just comes from the Italian that references their neutral charge.
In this phenomenon, neutrinos apparently change flavor. The 2015 Nobel in Physics was won for the discovery of this phenomenon, since it also implies the mass of neutrinos.
Scientists working on the EXO experiment are attempting to observe a hypothetical form of this decay where a neutrino is not emitted. In its usual form, this form of decay produces an electron and antineutrino.
neutrinos
neutrino oscillation
beta decay (accept beta-minus; do not accept or prompt on “beta-plus”) &lt;Pendyala&gt;
Bill Gosper discovered the first puffer in this model. For 10 points each:
Name this cellular automaton in which cells die if they have fewer than two live neighbors or more than three live neighbors. Patterns within this model include the lightweight spaceship, beehive, and pulsar.
Conway’s game of life requires this number of sentient players. Most programming languages assign this index number to the first element of an array or list, and dividing by this number will return an arithmetic error.
John Horton Conway, who created the Game of Life, is also known for his work on these mathematical objects, which come in pretzel and trefoil varieties.
Conway’s game of life
zero (accept obvious equivalents like none or no players)
knots &lt;Park&gt;
Pseudoscientific treatments for this disease include <em>Echinacea</em> supplements. For 10 points each:
Name this upper respiratory disease that cannot be treated with antibiotics. Prolonged exposure to chilly weather does not cause this disease, but winter conditions might aid its transmission.
This virus with 99 recognized serotypes is the primary cause of the common cold. Its species C enter cells by binding to CHDR3, and this virus has been implicated in acute otitis media.
The common cold can also be caused by the coronavirus family, which in 2015 caused a large outbreak of this disease in South Korea. While this disease appears to have originated in bats, it is also known as the camel flu.
common cold
rhinoviruses
Middle East respiratory syndrome (or MERS) &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the end of the universe:
This hypothesis states that the universe will stop expanding and gravitational forces will result in the universe collapsing onto itself. One variation of this hypothesis leads to the occurrence of another Big Bang.
This alternative hypothesis posits that the universe will deplete all of its thermodynamic energy and reach a state of maximum entropy. An alternative name for it is suggestive of the resulting cold temperatures.
One factor that will determine the ultimate fate of the universe is the amount of this hypothetical substance, which contributes 68.3% of the total energy in the universe.
Big Crunch
heat death (or Big Freeze)
dark energy &lt;Park&gt;
This equation states that the change in velocity is equal to exhaust velocity times the natural log of initial mass divided by final mass. For 10 points each:
Give this equation named for a Russian scientist. This equation only holds if there are no net forces on the system.
In order for a rocket to leave a body’s orbit, the rocket’s velocity must exceed this quantity. Don’t expect your homemade skateboard and ramp space program to work anytime soon, since it’s about 11.1 kilometers per second for Earth.
The rocket equation cannot be derived from this law because this law only applies for system with constant mass. This law is often written as F equals ma.
Tsiolkovsky rocket equation (accept either underlined portion)
escape velocity
Newton’s second law of motion (prompt on just Newton’s laws) &lt;Jin&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about biology’s most famous power couple:
Carl and Gerty Cori’s eponymous ester is one of these molecules with a phosphate group attached to its 1’-carbon [“one-prime-carbon”]. Blood sugar level refers to the level of this six-carbon monosaccharide.
The Cori cycle uses this molecule as a carbon source in gluconeogenesis. LDH catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate into this molecule, which is generated in a namesake anaerobic fermentation.
The Cori ester is produced by this class of enzymes that catalyze the addition of a phosphate group from an inorganic phosphate to an acceptor. Unlike kinases, these enzymes do not require a phosphate donor like ATP.
glucose
lactic acid (or lactate)
phosphorylases (do not accept or prompt on “kinases” or “phosphatases”) &lt;Park&gt;
This law’s formulator also proposed the law of thermoneutrality. For 10 points each:
Name this law that states that the total enthalpy of a reaction is independent of the reaction pathway. It is a manifestation of the fact that enthalpy is a state function.
Hess’s law can be used to calculate this quantity, which is the change in enthalpy when one mole of substance in the standard state is created from its pure elements under the same conditions.
Hess’s law is a consequence of this law, which roughly states the conservation of energy. This law is followed by a “second” law that says entropy tends to increase.
Hess’s law
standard enthalpy of formation (accept standard heat of formation; prompt on partial answers)
first law of thermodynamics (prompt on partial answer) &lt;Park&gt;
These phenomena have a significant effect on the climate of the regions they pass through. For 10 points each:
Name these phenomena involving the continuous and directed movement of ocean water. They are generated by the earth’s rotation, wind, and water density.
This ocean current and component of the North Atlantic Gyre is responsible for Northern Europe’s relatively warm weather. The Labrador Current meets with this current at the Grand Banks of Newfoundland.
Deep ocean currents are driven by this process, whose slowdown is caused by global warming. Its name refers to the two primary factors that determine ocean water density.
ocean currents
Gulf Stream
thermohaline circulation (or THC) &lt;Park&gt;
These reactions are associated with a gain in electrons, decrease in oxidation state, or increase in the number of hydrogen atoms. For 10 points each:
Name this class of reactions that is contrasted with oxidation.
Reduction of carbonyl compounds is often accomplished with reagents containing boron or this metal. The MPV reduction employs alkoxide salts of this metal, which is produced in the Hall-Héroult process.
LAH reduces nitriles to amines, but this bulky organoaluminum reducing agent converts nitriles into aldehydes. Unlike sodium borohydride, this reagent acts as an electrophilic hydride donor.
reduction (accept word forms)
aluminum (or aluminium; prompt on Al)
DIBAL-H (accept diisobutylaluminum hydride or diisobutylaluminium hydride) &lt;Park&gt;
The Herschel Space Observatory is located at one of these points for the Sun-Earth system. For 10 points each:
Name this set of five equilibrium points where a small mass can orbit in a constant pattern with two larger masses. The third, fourth, and fifth of these points form an equilateral triangle.
Objects described by this term orbit 60 degrees ahead or behind a more massive object, since they are located at L4 or L5. Asteroids described by this term include 624 Hektor and 588 Achilles.
The trojan asteroids share their orbit with this gas giant and largest planet in the Solar System. Galileo discovered this planet’s four largest moons, which are Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto.
Lagrangian points (accept Lagrange points, L-points, or libration points)
trojan (accept trojan asteroids, trojan moons, or trojan minor planets)
Jupiter &lt;Park&gt;
You are now a radiologist. Answer some questions about your job, for 10 points each:
Much of your work involves reading radiographs, which are created using radiation from this part of the electromagnetic spectrum. William Röntgen used this type of radiation to image the bones in his wife’s hand.
When taking a radiograph, you may ask your patient to raise their arms so that these large triangular bones, commonly known as the shoulder blades, don’t block part of the image.
You’ll often ask patients to take a namesake “meal” of this element’s sulfate to study their GI tracts.
X-rays (or X-ray radiation)
scapula (accept wing bone)
barium (prompt on Ba) &lt;Chu&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about moment-generating functions, or MGFs:
You can obtain the nth moment of a random variable by applying this operation n times on the MGF. The fundamental theorem of calculus essentially describes it as the “reverse” of integration.
The third standardized moment of a probability distribution is this measure, which describes the asymmetry of a probability distribution. When this measure is positive, the mean is usually greater than the median.
Meanwhile, the first moment of a probability distribution is this measure, which appears in Jensen’s inequality. The law of the unconscious statistician is sometimes used to calculate this measure.
differentiation (accept word forms; accept taking the derivative and word forms)
skewness (accept word forms)
expected value (accept expectation, mean value, and average) &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about American chemist Stephanie Kwolek:
Kwolek won the Lavoisier Medal for inventing this high-strength synthetic fiber marketed by DuPont. This material is found in bulletproof vests, racing canoes, and bicycle tires.
The two monomers used to make Kevlar both feature a benzene ring with this substitution pattern. In EAS, electron donating groups result in products with this non-ortho pattern, where the 1 and 4 carbons are substituted.
Because Kevlar is water-insoluble, this corrosive compound is used in Kevlar’s industrial production. This strong diprotic acid is formed in the contact process, and it was once called oil of vitriol.
Kevlar
para
sulfuric acid (accept H2SO4) &lt;Park&gt;
The largest organism in this phylum can reach a length of twenty-two feet. For 10 points each:
Name this phylum that includes the African giant earthworm. Its name derives from the Latin for “little ring.”
The annelid subclass Hirudinea is comprised of these organisms that produce the anticoagulant hirudin. Though widely prescribed in the past, nowadays these organisms are used to treat conditions like varicose veins.
Some annelids move via this mechanism characterized by a series of muscle contractions from anterior to posterior. The movement of lymph is also driven by this mechanism.
Annelida (or annelids)
leeches
peristalsis &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the number 17 in science:
Group 17 on the periodic table corresponds to this group of elements that includes fluorine and bromine. Their high reactivity is a consequence of their seven valence electrons.
There are 17 fundamental particles in this theory of particle physics, which describes the electromagnetic, strong, and weak forces. Some physicists are attempting to extend this model into the theory of everything.
Brodmann area 17 corresponds to this part of the brain. The ventral and dorsal streams originate from this structure, which includes the color center.
halogens
Standard Model (or SM)
primary visual cortex (or V1; prompt on occipital lobe) &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the chemistry of cooking:
These compounds created by the Fischer synthesis are responsible for many fruity aromas. They are derived from an alcohol and a carboxylic acid.
Chefs use egg yolks, xanthan gum, and soy lecithin to stabilize these colloids, which contain a liquid dispersed in another liquid. Examples of these colloids include homogenized milk and vinaigrettes.
This reaction between reducing sugars and amino acids is a form of non-enzymatic browning contrasted with pyrolysis and caramelization. One product of this reaction is the carcinogen acrylamide.
esters
emulsions
Maillard [“MY-yar”] reaction &lt;Park&gt;
One of these entities was made by John Mitchell and shows the US and Canada. For 10 points each:
Name these charts that depict a portion of space, often the world or a specific country. They usually include a compass rose and lines of latitude and longitude.
It can be mathematically proved that this is the minimum number of colors needed to color a map such that every two bordering sections of the map have different colors.
In contrast to the Mercator projection, this map projection is equal-area, which elongates the continents. In 2017, it was adopted by Boston Public Schools for use in classrooms.
map (accept obvious synonyms)
four (accept four color theorem)
Gall-Peters Projection (Ed’s note: if you want, tell players to look up article on “cartographic imperialism” – it’s fascinating) &lt;Horton&gt;
A bobbing during this movement is called nutation. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which the axis of rotation itself moves.
This man names a form of precession. He also names a law that gives the radiation emitted by an accelerating, non-relativistic point charge.
The relativistic version of the Larmor formula is useful for describing charged particles moving in this type of field signified by an uppercase B. Its counterpart is the electric field.
precession (accept word forms)
Sir Joseph Larmor
magnetic field &lt;Pendyala&gt;
Bertrand's postulate implies that the <em>n</em>th of these quantities is less than the <em>n</em>th prime number. For 10 points each:
Name these quantities. Yitang Zhang was the first to prove a finite bound on these values, which Terence Tao and the polymath8 project subsequently worked on reducing.
This is the smallest prime gap, or difference between two consecutive prime numbers. This number is also the difference between the third and fourth Fibonacci numbers.
The prime number theorem states that the average length of the prime gap between a prime p and the next prime is this function of p. In general, the antiderivative of this function of x is one over x.
prime gap
one
natural logarithm (or ln) &lt;Xiong&gt;
The Avogadro project is one effort to redefine this unit using a sphere of pure silicon. For 10 points each:
Name this unit, the only SI unit to be defined based on a physical artifact.
The instability of the mass of the platinum-iridium cylinder led the SI to take up a proposal to redefine the kilogram in terms of this physical constant, which has units kg·m2·s-1 [“kilogram meter squared per second”].
The NIST’s attempt to develop an “electric kilogram” involves a Kibble balance, which measures mass by varying the intensity of this quantity. The SI unit of this quantity is the ampere.
kilogram (accept kg; do not accept or prompt on "gram")
Planck's constant
electric current (accept I) &lt;Xiong&gt;
The primary rate-limiting factor of this process is the enzyme RuBisCo. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which plants convert sunlight into chemical energy. This process takes place in the thylakoid membrane and stroma of the chloroplast.
RuBisCo is involved in this stage of photosynthesis, in which carbon dioxide, NADPH, and ATP is converted into glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate.
In cyanobacteria, these protein-based organelles encapsulate RuBisCo and carbonic anhydrase to prevent photorespiration. These structures fall under the class of bacterial microcompartments and are icosahedral in shape.
photosynthesis
dark reactions (or light-independent reactions; or Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle)
carboxysomes &lt;Park&gt;
The Zimmerman-Traxler model attempts to explain the stereochemical outcome of this reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this addition reaction between two carbonyl compounds that produces a beta-hydroxy aldehyde or beta-hydroxy ketone. A similarly named “condensation” results when this reaction is followed by dehydration.
Aldol reactions described by this adjective are incredibly useful for synthesizing cyclic compounds. In general, this adjectives describes things that happen on the same molecule.
The aldol reaction goes through an enolate intermediate when these compounds are used as catalysts. Arrhenius defined these compounds as ones that produce hydroxide ions in aqueous solutions.
aldol reaction
intramolecular (do not accept or prompt on “intermolecular”)
bases &lt;Park&gt;
Name some things related to the most indestructible organism in the world, for 10 points each:
These aquatic micro-animals can survive dehydration, freezing temperatures, and ionizing radiation. According to a July 2017 study in Scientific Reports, these organisms will likely last for at least 10 billion years.
Tardigrades are the first known animals to survive in this environment. Since it is above the Armstrong limit, humans must wear protective clothing in this environment to prevent their body fluids from boiling away.
Scientists attribute the remarkable hardiness of tardigrades to their ability to enter this reversible physiological state. There are five types of this state, and they are all characterized by the absence of metabolic processes.
tardigrades (or water bears)
outer space
cryptobiosis (accept word forms) &lt;Park&gt;
This man successfully secured patents for the elements curium and americium. For 10 points each:
Name this chemist. He proposed that elements with certain magic numbers of protons and neutrons would have unusually long half-lives, a prediction known as the island of stability.
Seaborg’s major elemental discoveries are classified as being “trans-[this element],” or having an atomic number greater than 92. This element is often used as fuel for nuclear reactors.
Seaborg led the first major efforts to discover and synthesize transuranium elements while at this university. Element 98 is named for the state this university is in and element 97 is named after the university itself.
Glenn Theodore Seaborg
uranium (accept transuranium elements; prompt on U)
University of California, Berkeley (prompt on Cal) &lt;Xiong&gt;
This scientist proposed that genetic information was stored in aperiodic crystals. For 10 points each:
Name this physicist, whose time-independent equation relates the Hamiltonian of a certain function to the energy of that function. He also described a thought experiment about an animal simultaneously alive and dead.
That function in Schrodinger’s equation is named for these entities. A basic result from quantum mechanics is that particles can also be described as these entities.
Schrodinger’s equation is often applied to solve this system in which a zero potential well is surrounded by infinite potential outside the well.
Erwin Rudolf Josef Alexander Schrödinger
waves
particle in a box &lt;Jin&gt;
For 10 points each, name these commonly-used keywords in programming:
This keyword is used to carry out certain statements under given logic conditions. It’s often paired with an “else” statement given that the conditional statement does not hold true.
In object-oriented programming, this keyword designates a structure that can later be instantiated to make objects or call methods on. In CSS, this term also refers to user defined style elements.
In Java, C, and Python this keyword is often used in debugging to check that certain conditions hold true. In Java, passing the flag -ea [“hyphen e a”] enables statements beginning with this keyword.
if
class
assert &lt;Xiong&gt;
Though most cases of this disease are caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, a few cases are caused by the human cytomegalovirus. For 10 points each:
Name this viral disease whose symptoms include fatigue and malaise. Enlargement of the spleen or liver may also occur in patients with this disease.
The Epstein-Barr virus is primarily spread through this substance, which is produced by the parotid and submandibular glands. This substance contains enzymes that aid digestion and kill microorganisms.
This group of blood cancers is also associated with Epstein-Barr virus infection. Thomas Hodgkin and Denis Parsons Burkitt name two examples of these cancers, which sometimes result from abnormal B cell proliferation.
infectious mononucleosis (or just mono)
saliva
lymphomas &lt;Park&gt;
You want to work at the Goldman Sachs. Answer some questions about quantitative finance, for 10 points each:
This doubly-eponymous mathematical model is used as a basis for pricing options, and assumes that stock prices follow a log-normal distribution.
The Black-Scholes model also assumes that stock prices exhibit this property, which describes systems with unpredictable outcomes. Slot machines work by generating numbers with this property.
Option payouts in the Black-Scholes model are calculated using a function described by this term. The local type of this term can be found at critical points whose second derivatives are negative.
Black-Scholes model
randomness (accept word forms; accept stochastic and word forms)
maximum &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions relating to the field of astrobiology:
The discovery of these organisms revolutionized astrobiology since it showed that life was not entirely sun-dependent. On Earth, these autotrophs can be found near hydrothermal vents and are exclusively prokaryotic.
This doubly-eponymous experiment demonstrated that various amino acids can be produced under the conditions present in early Earth and other regions of the solar system.
Some astrobiologists reject “carbon chauvinism” and study hypothetical biochemistry. For example, some believe this element can be incorporated into DNA, despite its historical use among humans to poison each other.
chemoautotrophs
Miller-Urey experiment (accept different ordering of the names)
arsenic &lt;Park&gt;
If you were catching some Z’s during science class, you might not be able to answer these Z-related questions now. For 10 points each:
The E-Z notation is an extension of a scheme that uses “trans” and this term. Alkenes described by this term have substituents on the same side of the double bond.
The lowercase Z is used to denote this colorfully named quantity that represents the intensity of this phenomenon associated with a decrease in frequency. The Doppler effect is one cause of this phenomenon.
Z-lines can be found in these structures, which also contain the A-band and H-zones. Proteins that reside in these structures include nebulin and titin, the largest known protein.
cis
redshift (do not accept or prompt on “blueshift” since that is associated with an increase in frequency)
sarcomeres &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points, name some of the companies that make the web go:
This non-profit organization publishes many web standards, as well as the Firefox browser. Its name is stylized using a colon and two forward slashes.
This company is responsible for hosting much of the web through its Web Services, which include EC2 cloud and S3 storage buckets. Many of this company’s server farms are in Northern Virginia.
This cloud platform is used by many companies to easily spin up or host their websites. Its logo is a characteristic purple.
Mozilla Foundation (accept Moz;//a, if someone can pronounce that as a word)
Amazon
Heroku &lt;Kuang&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about cryochemistry:
Many advances in cryochemistry were enabled by the wide availability of this element’s liquid form, which boils at 77 Kelvin. This element comprises 78% of Earth’s atmosphere.
When helium is cooled below this temperature, it becomes a superfluid with zero viscosity. When helium’s specific heat capacity is plotted with temperature, the resulting graph resembles a certain Greek letter.
Compounds containing elements from this periodic table group are only stable in low temperatures. The newly discovered element oganesson is likely a member of this group, but will be by far its most reactive member.
nitrogen (prompt on N)
lambda point
noble gases (prompt on group 18) &lt;Park&gt;
Prove you know the ABCs of science by answering these questions, for 10 points each:
In the ABC model of flower development, these structures result from the expression of class A genes. These structures are collectively known as the calyx, since they protect the flower in its bud stage.
This formula is occasionally called the ABC formula, since the letters correspond to the coefficients in a second degree polynomial. Derivations of this formula involve completing the square.
The ABC programming language strongly influenced the design of this programming language that features dynamic typing. Matplotlib, pandas, and scikit-learn are some libraries that can be used with this language.
sepals
quadratic formula
Python &lt;Park&gt;
This scientist names an expansion where the partition function for a Fermi gas is expanded in powers of log fugacity in the low-temperature limit. For 10 points each:
Name this German physicist, who names an approximation used in the “old quantum theory” along with Bohr.
The Bohr-Sommerfeld semi-classical approximation introduces a quantization for this quantity, which is defined as the time-integral of the Lagrangian. There exists a “principle of least” amount of this quantity.
Sommerfeld was improving on the first Bohr model, which itself improved upon the model of the atom Ernest Rutherford had developed by shooting alpha particles at a foil of this metal.
Arnold Sommerfeld
action
gold (prompt on Au) &lt;Pendyala&gt;
The EMBL-EBI and NCBI are both large research centers for scientists in this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field that focuses on understanding and organizing biological data on very large scales. Unlike computational biology, the goal of this field is to build tools and resources that help others analyze data.
One important task in bioinformatics is sequence alignment, which can be accomplished using this algorithm. When this algorithm is applied to protein sequences, the BLOSUM62 matrix is used to quantify similarity.
The Broad [“brode”] Institute’s GTEx project analyzed samples from 714 donors to gather data associated with this biological process. DNA microarrays and Northern blots are used to measure this biological process.
bioinformatics (accept word forms)
BLAST (or Basic Local Alignment Search Tool)
gene expression &lt;Park&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about evo-devo, or evolutionary developmental biology:
This important set of genes serves as the master regulator of embryonic development. These highly conserved genes encode transcription factors with a 60-amino-acid-long DNA-binding domain.
The “deep” form of this phenomenon is an important concept in evo-devo. This term also refers to the similarity of structures and genes due to shared ancestry, and is usually contrasted with analogy.
The egg-polarity genes bicoid and nanos display this phenomenon, in which the mother’s genotype determines the offspring’s phenotype. It is the result of the mother supplying proteins or mRNA to the oocyte.
Hox genes
homology
maternal effect &lt;Park&gt;
These equations are equivalent to the conservation of momentum for each infinitesimal element of a fluid. For 10 points each:
Name these fundamental equations of fluid dynamics, for which no general existence and smoothness proof yet exists. They cannot be solved except in the simplest cases.
In the incompressible simplification of the Navier-Stokes equations, this quantity is assumed to be a constant. This quantity is symbolized with the greek letter rho, and specific gravity is a ratio of values for this quantity.
Using scale analysis, one can show that the velocity profile is parabolic in these viscosity-dominated regions, where the effective Reynolds number is small. Ludwig Prandtl devised an important theory on these regions.
Navier-Stokes equations
density
boundary layer &lt;Pendyala&gt;
There are a lot of particles in the Standard Model. For 10 points each:
These particles are produced naturally in beta plus decay and are the antimatter counterparts to the electron.
This American physicist is best known for his discovery of the positron, which earned him the Nobel Prize in 1936, and of the muon.
Anderson utilized this type of chamber to look at the ion trail left by each positron and measure their radii of curvature. This kind of chamber is often contrasted with the bubble type, invented in 1952.
positrons
Carl David Anderson
cloud chamber &lt;AP&gt;
. Although this set has a lot about contagious diseases, many diseases are heritable. For 10 points each:
The familial type of this disease is caused by mutations in the gene PNRP. This disease is sometimes incorrectly called the human form of mad cow disease.
This disease, which causes a namesake chorea, is due to an overabundance of “CAG” repeats in a namesake gene on the short arm of chromosome 4. This non-ALS disease has often been likened to Parkinson’s disease, and leads to declines in coordination and ultimately dementia.
Sufferers of this disease have a decreased ability to break down phenylalanine. Untreated, it can result in a musty odor of the skin.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease
Huntington’s disease
phenylketonuria [or PKU] &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about solutions.
This law, which explains how gases dissolve across the alveolar-capillary barrier, states that the amount of dissolved gas is directly proportional to its partial pressure.
This measure of the concentration of a solution is often used when dealing with colligative properties and is defined as the number of moles of solute per kilogram of solvent. It is often contrasted with molarity.
This effect occurs when the particles in a colloid or a fine suspension scatter light often causing solutions to appear blue.
Henry’s law
molality
Tyndall effect &lt;AP&gt;
This process occurs in the chloroplasts of plants. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which plants turn carbon dioxide and water into glucose, which includes the light-dependent and light-independent reactions.
The Calvin cycle performs this action in photosynthesis, in which carbon dioxide is converted into organic compounds. The common variety attaches carbon dioxide and water onto RuBP (“r u b p”) to form 2 PGA molecules.
This type of carbon fixation, adapted for arid climates, begins with CO2 attaching to PEP in mesophyll cells, creating malate. The malate is then transported to bundle-sheath cells, where CO2 separates off of it to perform the Calvin cycle.
photosynthesis
carbon fixation [accept carbon assimilation; prompt on fixation or assimilation]
C4 carbon fixation &lt;DM&gt;
MODERATOR NOTE: Read the third bonus part slowly. This force comes in static, sliding, rolling, and fluid types. For 10 points each:
Identify this force which opposes motion.
The maximum force of static friction is calculated by multiplying the normal force by the coefficient of static friction, which is represented by this letter with the subscript s. This letter is also used in the symbol for micrograms.
If a weight is stationary on an inclined plane of angle 45 degrees, this is the value by which one must divide the weight in order to calculate the magnitude of the force of static friction acting on the weight.
friction
lowercase mu [accept mi; do not accept or prompt on “uppercase mu” or “M”]
root 2 [accept radical 2; accept equivalents; accept 1.414] &lt;CL&gt;
Two popular libraries for this language are called React and Angular. For 10 points each:
Name this untyped programming language often used alongside HTML and CSS in web development whose files are stored with a .js (“dot J S”) extension.
JavaScript belongs to this programming paradigm that contains data in the form of attributes and code in the form of procedures.
These entities are used to execute a specific block of code multiple times. In JavaScript, these entities can be handled efficiently with a switch statement.
JavaScript [do not accept or prompt on Java]
object oriented
loops &lt;AP&gt;
Model organisms are often used in experiments. For 10 points each:
These small rodents are the most commonly used mammal species in labs. They differ from larger rats, which are also model organisms that are used extensively in psychology.
This organism is commonly used in development studies because of its transparent embryo. This organism is also capable of regenerating heart tissue, and is being studied as a potential key to heart repair in humans.
This small roundworm is used in neurological studies due to its very small and simple nervous system. It was the first multicellular organism to have its whole genome mapped, as well as the first to have its entire nervous system mapped.
lab mice [or lab mouse; accept Mus musculus or mus]
zebrafish [or Danio rerio]
Caenorhabditis elegans [prompt on nematoda] &lt;DM&gt;
This model is used to predict molecular shapes. For 10 points each:
Name this theory, in which the number of bonded and unbonded electron pairs surrounding the central atom of a molecule is used to predict geometry.
PH3 has this molecular shape by VSEPR theory because it has one lone pair and three single bonds. This molecular shape has angles of approximately 107.5 degrees.
Although orbital hybridization isn’t part of VSEPR, it also helps explain molecular geometry. PH3 has this hybridization, in which three hybrid orbitals are formed.
Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion theory
trigonal pyramidal
sp2 &lt;DM&gt;
This form of radiation is emitted or absorbed by molecules when they change their rotational-vibrational movements. For 10 points each:
Name this type of electromagnetic radiation, discovered in 1800 by Sir William Herschel, with wavelength longer than that of red light.
This observatory contains the second largest single-aperture telescope. Located in Puerto Rico, this observatory’s radio telescope has collected data for the SETI@home project.
In 1968, a discovery of the periodicity of the Crab Pulsar at Arecibo provided the first solid evidence for the existence of these entities. A rotating type of this star is called a pulsar, and these stars exist due to their namesake degeneracy pressure.
infrared light [or infrared radiation]
Arecibo Observatory
neutron stars &lt;AP&gt;
Only one SI base unit has an SI prefix. For 10 points each:
Identify that unit, the only SI unit which is still defined by an artifact rather than a replicable physical property. In 1795, one thousandth of this unit was defined as the mass of one cubic centimeter of water at 0° Centigrade.
This instrument may one day be able to define the kilogram based on electronic units. It was an improvement from the Ampere balance, and it is based upon a proposal by B. P. Kibble.
In addition to current, watt balances use this property to measure mass. The name “watt balance” comes from the fact that the measured mass is proportional to the product of current and this quantity.
kilogramme [accept kg]
watt balance
voltage &lt;CL&gt;
This structure is extremely susceptible to cancer that can be spread through HPV infections. For 10 points each:
Name this lower part of the uterus that functions as a connection between the main part of the uterus and the vagina. Its namesake canal is the primary conduit for sperm.
This substance is used to approximate whether or not a woman is ovulating in the Billings Method. During pregnancy, a plug composed of this substance forms.
A pregnancy is terminated and a fetus’ life ends in this type of medical procedure. Some late-term varieties of this procedure involve cervical dilation.
cervix
cervical mucus
abortion &lt;LT&gt;
Two of these numbers are 6 and 28. For 10 points each:
Name these natural numbers that are neither abundant nor deficient.
This man found a formula generating all even perfect numbers using Mersenne primes. He is more famous for writing Elements, a text on geometry.
All known perfect numbers are also these numbers, which form the third diagonal in Pascal’s triangle. The square root of the sum of the first n cubic numbers is the nth one of these numbers.
perfect numbers
Euclid of Alexandria
triangular numbers [accept triangle numbers] &lt;DM&gt;
A small village on an island in Sweden has four elements named after it. For 10 points each:
Name any one of those four elements.
Name this mineral, the source of several rare earth elements, including ytterbium, yttrium, terbium, and erbium. It was named for a Finnish mineralogist.
This group of the periodic table, also called the rare earths, contains ytterbium, terbium, and erbium. This group is very similar to the actinides, which are one period below it.
ytterbium, yttrium, terbium, erbium [accept any underlined portion]
gadolinite [do not accept or prompt on “gadolinium”]
lanthanides &lt;PB&gt;
This thing is measured in Newtons per Coulomb. For 10 points each:
Identify this vector field which describes the electromagnetic force that would be exerted on a test particle at a given location.
The electric field for a point charge can be calculated using a corollary of Coulomb’s law, which states that the source charge and radial distance have this relationship.
The density of a point charge, on the other hand, is represented by a function named for this man, who also names an equation which predicted the existence of antimatter.
electric field
inverse square law [accept negative second power or power of negative two; accept square root]
Paul (Adrien Maurice) Dirac [accept Dirac delta function; accept Dirac equation] &lt;CL&gt;
The fifth edition of this publication appeared in 2013. For 10 points each:
Name this series of manuals that has been published by the American Psychiatric Association since 1952. The fifth edition introduced the new sub-category of “motor disorders,” and replaced the term “mental retardation” with “intellectual disability.”
This developmental disorder, characterized by impaired social interaction and communication, was deleted in the DSM-5 and its symptoms folded into “Autism Spectrum Disorder.” It is named for an Austrian pediatrician.
A new chapter in the DSM-5 on these disorders includes excoriation, or skin-picking, disorders, and hoarding disorders. These disorders are often abbreviated as “OCD.”
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
Asperger syndrome [accept AS]
obsessive-compulsive disorders &lt;CC&gt;
Chemical elements can exist in a variety of forms in nature. For 10 points each:
Name this term that refers to one or more forms of an element in the same state. These entities arise due to different structural modifications.
This element has numerous solid allotropes that all revert to the same 4-molecule form when melted in the liquid state. This nonmetal in the nitrogen group contains 5 valence electrons.
This allotrope of phosphorus exists in two different crystalline forms. This highly flammable and toxic compound turns yellow in the presence of light.
allotropes
phosphorus
white phosphorus &lt;AP&gt;
These organs are the main part of the respiratory system. For 10 points each:
Name this pair of organs directly below the ribcage. They take in oxygen and give off carbon dioxide through diffusion.
Alveoli of the lungs are formed of this thinnest, most permeable type of tissue. This type of tissue contains a single layer of flat cells.
The trachea branches into these two tubes, which provide the air supply for the two lungs. They branch off and become thinner and thinner, eventually turning into alveoli.
lungs
simple squamous cells [accept simple squamous epithelium]
bronchi [or bronchus; do not accept “bronchioles”] &lt;DM&gt;
. These forces arise when the frame of reference used to describe motion is is accelerating. For 10 points each:
Name this general type of force, also called an inertial force, that acts on all masses whose motion is described in a non-inertial reference frame.
This fictitious force acts on objects that are in motion relative to a rotating reference frame. This phenomenon results in cyclones spinning counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere but clockwise in the Southern.
This other fictitious force also acts in a rotating reference frame and is directed away from the axis of rotation.
fictitious force [accept d’Alembert force]
Coriolis effect
centrifugal force &lt;AP&gt;
In 1931, Eben Byers lost his jaw due to drinking water with this element in it. For 10 points each:
Name this element that is the heaviest alkaline earth metal. Paint with this element in it was used for glow-in-the-dark watch hands until factories were sued for unsafe working conditions due to this element’s radioactivity.
This scientist, along with her husband Pierre, discovered radium in 1898, but only managed to isolate it in 1902. Earlier in 1898, this scientist and her husband had discovered polonium.
An electrometer based on this effect was used by the Curies in their discoveries of polonium and radium. Crystals exhibit this effect when they acquire an electrical charge due to a physical force.
radium [accept Ra]
Marie Sklodowska Curie [accept Marie Salomea Skłodowska; prompt on partial answer]
piezoelectric effect &lt;BC&gt;
Mobile fluids have a value for this quantity lower than that of water. For 10 points each:
Identify this property of a fluid which describes its resistance to flow.
This dimensionless quantity can be used as an indicator for whether flow is laminar or turbulent, and is equal to the ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces.
This type of viscous mixture consists of a pulverized solid mixed with a liquid, usually water. These mixtures are often used industrially for bulk transport of solids, and examples include one made up of water, cement, and additives.
viscosity [accept word forms]
Reynolds number [accept Re]
slurry [or slurries] &lt;CL&gt;
MODERATOR NOTE: read all ellipses as “dot dot dot” This sequence begins, 1, 2, 4, 8. For 10 points each:
Name this geometric series, in which every term is double the previous one, starting from one.
The sum of the infinite series of the powers of two cannot be computed due to it having this quality. 1+½+¼+⅛… does not have this quality, so it can be summed to 2.
If one does try to sum 1+2+4… , the result is this number. It is achieved by doubling the series and demonstrating how the doubled series is one less than the original.
powers of 2 [accept obvious equivalents such as 2 to the n]
divergence
-1 &lt;DM&gt;
This phylum includes coral and jellyfish. For 10 points each:
Name this phylum, whose members are all aquatic and have radial symmetry. They are more complex than sponges.
Cnidaria all have these “stinging cells,” which contain nematocysts. These cells release hypnotoxins, which stun their prey.
Cnidarians exist in two body forms, one of which is the polyp. Name the other one, which is exemplified by jellyfish.
Cnidarians
cnidocytes
medusae &lt;DM&gt;
The absence of this phenomenon distinguishes “fixed stars.” For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, in which a star’s apparent position changes through the year compared to the other stars in the sky. It is often used to calculate distance to closer stars.
The angle of parallax has this value for an object 3.26 light years, or one parsec, away.
Stellar parallax is caused by Earth’s revolution around this object.
stellar parallax
1 arcsecond
the sun &lt;DM&gt;
Plagioclase is a triclinic variety of these while a cubic one of them is pyrite. For 10 points each:
Name these entities that consist of a repeated, highly ordered collection of atoms or molecules and form a lattice.
This cycle, named after its two developers, is used to calculate the lattice enthalpy of crystalline solids. The second namesake helped to weaponize chlorine gas.
This other type of solid lacks the long range order found in crystals. Gels, thin films, and glass all fall into this category of solids.
crystals
Born-Haber cycle
amorphous solids &lt;AP&gt;
These rocks are formed as cooled magma or lava. For 10 points each:
Name this type of rock, contrasted with metamorphic and sedimentary. Its name means “of fire.”
This type of igneous rock is formed underground from magma, as opposed to volcanic igneous rock.
These formations of igneous rock occur in fractures of existing rock and cut across rock layers.
igneous rock
plutonic rock or intrusive igneous rock [accept either]
dikes &lt;DM&gt;
This repetitive region of nucleotides occurs at the end of each chromosome. For 10 points each:
This region contains the sequence TTAGGG in vertebrates. It shortens as the cell duplicates and leave s a small fragment behind, eventually disappearing. TERT reverses the shortening of this region.
Telomerase is present in 90 percent of these cells, which is why they can surpass the Hayflick limit. Brain tumors are typically made of these cells.
The collection of this line of cells raised questions about patients’ rights, and it comes from the cancer cells of an African-American woman. These first examples of “immortal cells” can proliferate easily and quickly due to the telomerase present in them.
telomeres
cancer cells
HeLa (“HAY-lah”) cells [accept Henrietta Lacks cells] &lt;DM&gt;
This principle can be demonstrated using a Newton’s cradle. For 10 points each:
Identify this law which states that a certain quantity which can be calculated as the product of mass and velocity will be constant within a closed system.
The conservation of linear momentum can be used to derive this equation which states that the maximum change in velocity for the object is equal to exhaust velocity times the natural logarithm of the ratio of initial to final mass.
Exhaust velocity in the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation can be replaced with gravity times the specific type of this quantity, which is the regular type of this quantity per unit propellant consumed. It equals change in momentum.
law of conservation of linear momentum [prompt on conservation of momentum; do not accept or prompt on “conservation of angular momentum”]
Tsiolkovsky (“tsal-koff-ski”) rocket equation [accept ideal rocket equation; prompt on Tsiolkovsky equation]
impulse [accept J; accept Imp] &lt;CL&gt;
One type of this symbol separates different resonance forms of a molecule. For 10 points each:
Name this symbol that links the products with the reactants when writing out a chemical reaction, read as “yields.” A curved type of this symbol indicates the movement of electrons in organic reactions.
Single-headed arrows are used in chemical reactions to indicate the creation of these highly reactive species, which contain single unpaired electrons. Examples of these entities include nitric oxide and superoxide.
In all metal-aquo complexes, the bonding between water and the metal is described as one of these. In this type of bond, both electrons originate from the same atom.
arrows
free radicals
coordinate covalent bonds [accept dative bonds; do not prompt on “covalent bonds”] &lt;GA&gt;
Name some stuff about interstellar space, for 10 points each.
This type of cloud is enormous and dense to the extent that individual atoms can bond together. They are often stellar nurseries.
Name this gas in molecular clouds, the one most commonly used to detect the presence of one. Back here on Earth, it is the result of incomplete combustion and is toxic when it replaces hemoglobin in the blood.
This gas, the primary component of molecular clouds, creates a characteristic 21-centimeter wavelength spectral line, like its atomic form. It is the main component of molecular clouds.
molecular cloud
carbon monoxide [or CO]
hydrogen gas [or H2; prompt on hydrogen] &lt;DM&gt;
Who's afraid of the big bad wolf? Let's talk about wolves, for 10 points each.
Wolves occupy this top level in the food web. Members of this level are not hunted for food.
The reintroduction of wolves into this national park in the 1990s curbed its elk population back to its natural size.
You don't need to be as afraid of your dog because this process has been performed on it. In this multigenerational process, a species becomes used to and adapted to living with humans through selective breeding.
apex predator [prompt on partial]
Yellowstone National Park
domestication [or taming; accept word forms] &lt;DM&gt;
Answer some questions about rotational mechanics. For 10 points each:
This concept is used to determine the direction vector of a rotating body. In mathematics, the three dimensional coordinate system is set up using this principle.
This vector equals the cross product of force and the position vector and its direction can be computed using the right hand rule. This quantity is the time derivative of angular momentum.
This theorem, also known as the Huygens-Steiner theorem, can be used in order to determine the moment of inertia of a rigid body about a certain namesake entity.
right hand rule
torque
parallel axis theorem &lt;AP&gt;
Insane in the membrane! Let’s talk about membranes, for 10 points each.
Mitochondria have this number of membranes due to the fact that they are theorized to come from ancient gram-negative bacteria.
In the plasma membrane, these entities float within the membrane and have 3 to 5 times as much cholesterol as the rest of the membrane and are more saturated. They regulate membrane protein trafficking and receptor signaling.
This organelle is essentially a membrane filled with solution and plays a major role in storage and endocytosis. Plants have a central one to store water.
2 [accept double membrane]
lipid rafts
vacuoles &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about Michael Bay’s favorite things.
These occurrences are characterized by a rapid increase in volume and release of energy in an extreme manner.
Explosions are frequently performed using dynamite, which was created by Alfred Nobel by using a blasting cap to agitate this chemical.
One of the most common military grade explosives is C-4, which is made with RDX. RDX is a particularly good explosive because it has a very high value for this quantity, based mainly on the detonation pressure of an explosive.
explosions
nitroglycerin
brisance [or shattering capability] &lt;AJ&gt;
These shapes have a namesake proportionality theorem, by which a line parallel to the base cuts two sides in equal proportions. For 10 points each:
Name these three-sided polygons. Types of them include scalene and isosceles.
This theorem states that a line parallel to one side of a triangle, passing through the midpoint of another side, must pass through the midpoint of the third side, forming a namesake line half the length of the side it is parallel to.
If all three midlines are drawn, give the ratio of the area of the triangle formed by their intersection to that of the whole triangle.
triangle
midline theorem
¼ &lt;DM&gt;
Standard states are important reference points in chemistry. For 10 points each:
The standard state of a gas is chosen at this pressure, regardless of temperature. This quantity is equal to 105 (“ten to the fifth”) Pascals and was introduced by Norwegian meteorologist Vilhelm Bjerknes (“byerk-nes”).
When working with solids, the standard state is taken to be the most stable allotrope. Name the standard state for carbon, a layered planar solid made of layers arranged in a honeycomb lattice that is often used in pencils.
This thermodynamic principle arises from the conservation of energy and states that enthalpy is a state function.
1 bar [do not accept “1 atmosphere”]
graphite
Hess’s law &lt;AP&gt;
The first of these devices was built in 1960 by Theodore H. Maiman. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that emit coherent light through the stimulated emission of electromagnetic radiation. These devices are commonly found in printers and barcode scanners.
The creation of this state is necessary for the operation of lasers. This phenomenon occurs when more elements of a system exist in excited states than lower states.
This type of gas laser has a gain medium consisting of the two lightest noble gases and the most widely used one of them operates at a wavelength of 632.8 nm.
lasers [accept light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation]
population inversion
helium-neon laser &lt;AP&gt;
This device was invented in 1929 for use as a particle accelerator. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of electrostatic generator often used in classrooms. This device uses a rubber belt and metal combs to create a potential difference of up to five megavolts on a hollow metal sphere.
Van de Graaff generators work by creating ionized air, often considered to be the same as this “fourth state of matter.” This state of matter can be formed by heating a gas.
The potential difference a Van de Graaff generator can produce is limited because after a point, it loses charge via arcing and this other method, which occurs when charge is lost to a fluid such as air.
Van de Graaff generator [accept Van de Graaff accelerator]
plasma
corona discharge [prompt on partial; prompt on electrical discharge] &lt;CL&gt;
Isaiah Austin was forced to take a 2 year break from basketball due to complications from this condition. For 10 points each:
Name this condition that causes a weakening in the body’s connective tissue. People with this condition often are tall and slim with disproportionately long limbs, flat feet, poor eyesight, and an enlarged aorta.
This condition is caused by the overproduction of insulin-like growth factor 1 while the growth plates are still open. People with this condition are abnormally large in size, with an enlarged jaw and forehead.
Gigantism is most often caused by a tumor in this gland. This gland regulates several of the other glands in the endocrine system, such as the adrenal and thyroid.
Marfan’s Syndrome [accept MFS]
gigantism [accept giantism]
pituitary gland &lt;BC&gt;
One stellar classification system is based on this measurement. For 10 points each:
Name this measurement, which causes the color differences in stars. The sun’s surface has a value of 5800 Kelvin for this measurement.
The hottest stars are given this letter in Morgan-Keenan stellar classification. The next hottest stars are denoted B, A, and F.
The portion of the Morgan-Keenan classification that denotes temperature is named after this university, at which Annie Jump Cannon devised the classification.
surface temperature
O
Harvard University &lt;DM&gt;
Over time, some diseases have disappeared. For 10 points each answer some questions about them.
This disease was the first to be eradicated by humans, with the last natural case occurring in 1977. Those who were infected got bumps filled with opaque, thick fluid on the skin, and Edward Jenner pioneered the first vaccine for it.
Mostly affecting England, the last outbreak of this disease was in 1551 and the first was in 1485. The symptoms of this disease progressed from a cold stage to a hot stage that gives it its name.
It’s not Marburg, but this disease caused by a filovirus occurs in sporadic, very deadly outbreaks in its namesake “belt” in Africa, often disappearing for years at a time. Its Sudan variety is deadliest, while its Reston variety causes no symptoms in humans.
smallpox
English sweating sickness
Ebola virus &lt;DM&gt;
Stars that are above the Chandrasekhar limit will either collapse into a neutron star or one of these. For 10 points each:
Name these celestial bodies with a singularity at their center that have a gravity so strong that not even light can escape them.
This mechanism is predicted to cause black holes to evaporate. It is caused by quantum effects near the event horizon of black holes.
This theoretical physicist first related the size of a black hole to entropy in his Ph.D thesis; his idea was originally denounced by Hawking. This scientist also names an upper limit for the amount of entropy in a system with fixed energy and mass.
black holes
Hawking radiation [accept Bekenstein-Hawking radiation but do not reveal otherwise; prompt on partial]
Jacob Bekenstein &lt;BC&gt;
Constants are a constant source of fun! For 10 points each, identify some.
This constant is equal to the circumference of a circle divided by the diameter. It begins 3.14159 (“three point one four one five nine”).
This number is the limit of the ratio between consecutive terms in the Fibonacci sequence. If the ratio between two numbers is equal to this constant, it is also the ratio between the larger number and the numbers’ sum.
This pair of constants, represented by delta and alpha, express ratios in a bifurcation diagram for a nonlinear map. The first is equal to roughly 4.669 while the second is equal to roughly 2.503.
pi
golden ratio [accept phi; accept golden mean; accept golden section; accept sectio aurea; accept golden proportion; accept extreme and mean ratio; accept medial section; accept divine proportion; accept divine section; accept sectio divina; accept golden cut; accept golden number]
Feigenbaum constants [accept Feigenbaum delta and alpha] &lt;CL&gt;
These molecules can have “spectator” and “bulky” varieties. For 10 points each:
Name this term for molecules that bind to a central metal atom in a complex. They are often viewed as Lewis bases and some examples of them include ethylenediamine (“eh-thi-lean-die-a-mean”) and EDTA.
This molecule, central to photosynthesis, allows plants to absorb energy from light. All forms of this molecule share a chlorine magnesium ligand.
This type of bonding involves two or more bonds between a polydentate ligand and a central atom. A namesake therapy uses a related effect to remove heavy metals from the body.
ligands
chlorophyll
chelation &lt;AP&gt;
. Chemistry has lots of confusing suffixes. For 10 points each:
When naming ionic compounds, this suffix is added to the monatomic anion. The chemical name of table salt ends with this suffix.
When naming acids, this suffix replaces the suffix “ite” in an anion. In the Latin system, it is used to denote the first oxidation state for a cation that is lower than than the one with suffix “ic.”
Element 118 ends in this two letter suffix, not -ium, in accordance to a new IUPAC naming rule published in 2016.
-ide
-ous
-on &lt;DM&gt;
Finding electric fields can be tedious work. For 10 points each, name some things about a law that simplifies their computation:
This law relates the distribution of electric charge to the resulting field. The namesake of this law also names another one of Maxwell’s equations.
The right side of Gauss’s law involves the reciprocal of this constant. This constant can also be written as one over four pi times Coulomb’s constant.
The right side of Gauss’s law is represented by the letter phi, which refers to this quantity, the dot product of the electric field and planar area.
Gauss’s law [do not accept or prompt on “Gauss’s law of magnetism”]
permittivity of free space [accept epsilon naught]
electric flux &lt;AP&gt;
Earth is circular, but so are other things! For 10 points each, name some circular patterns on Earth.
These winds circle the earth at arctic and subarctic latitudes near the tropopause. Persistent meanders of them have been known to cause polar vortexes.
Name these circular ocean currents caused by the Coriolis effect that circle around the world's major oceans. The North Pacific one causes a buildup of plastic particles in the Great Pacific garbage patch.
These somewhat circular tropical storms are centered around an eye and name the highest wind level on the Beaufort scale. Famous examples include Katrina and Andrew.
jet streams
ocean gyres
hurricanes &lt;DM&gt;
This disease is caused by trypanosomes. For 10 points each:
Name this disease spread by the tsetse fly, related to nagana. The second stage of this disease attacks the central nervous system, causing the namesake symptom.
Trypanosomes that cause sleeping sickness are parasites belonging to this kingdom. Malaria parasites also belong to this kingdom which is not plants, fungi, or animals.
Paul Ehrlich identified the chemical structure for atoxyl, the first drug that treated sleeping sickness. He more famously used atoxyl to derive compound 606, which was the first effective treatment of this other disease.
sleeping sickness [do not accept anything including “trypanosomiasis” since it is in the question]
protista
syphilis &lt;DM&gt;
Three out of four phases of matter continually deform under an applied stress. For 10 points each:
Name this phase of matter characterized by definite volume but no fixed shape.
This term refers to the volume change of a fluid in response to a pressure. In general liquids do not have this property unless at extremely high pressures.
Carbon dioxide in this state is used for decaffeination. This term refers to a substance that can effuse through solids and dissolve materials.
liquid
compressibility
supercritical fluid [prompt on partial] &lt;AP&gt;
Let’s get hyper! For 10 points each, answer some questions about things in the fourth dimension.
This 4D surface, named after a German mathematician, is similar to a Mobius strip but uses a cylinder rather than a sheet of paper.
This special term for a 4D cube, or hypercube, is mentioned both in A Wrinkle In Time as the term for the fifth dimension and in the Marvel Cinematic Universe as a containment vessel for an Infinity Stone.
This construct commonly created with ropes is mathematically impossible in 4D.
Klein bottle
tesseract
knots &lt;PB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about hydrocarbons:
Name this chemical produced by the hydrogenation of benzene whose chemical formula is frequently abbreviated Cy.
This is the number of hydrogen atoms in a single molecule of cyclohexane.
Cyclohexane has 6 carbon atoms and 12 hydrogen atoms, meaning that the degree of this concept for the molecule is 1.
cyclohexane
12
unsaturation &lt;AJ&gt;
The two theories of relativity sure have a lot of applications in physics. For 10 points each:
This phenomenon, predicted by the general theory of relativity, occurs when a large distribution of matter between an observer and a light source bends the light as it travels.
This other phenomenon, also called a length contraction, causes a decrease in length of an object as measured by an observer and occurs in a direction parallel to the observer’s velocity.
The nontrivial solution of the Einstein field equations were published by this man, who also names a radius that acts as the event horizon of a black hole.
gravitational lensing [prompt on lensing]
Lorentz contraction
Karl Schwarzschild &lt;AP&gt;
Money doesn't grow on trees, but other things do! For 10 points each:
Name this type of fruit, examples of which include cherries, peaches, and apricots. The seed is enclosed in a central, hard pit that is created from the ovary wall.
Fan-shaped leaves and smelly nuts distinguish this type of tree. They're not cycads, but this gymnosperm is often called a “living fossil,” and it is the only extant member in its division.
Only in angiosperms will trees periodically grow these structures. They release and receive pollen and often bloom in spring.
drupe [or stone fruit]
Ginkgo biloba
flowers &lt;DM&gt;
Sunlight undergoes this effect in the atmosphere, causing the blue hue of the sky. For 10 points each:
Name this effect where electromagnetic radiation is elastically scattered by particles much smaller than their wavelengths.
This other form of scattering results in an increase in the wavelength of a photon and occurs when a photon is inelastically scattered by a charged particle.
This effect, named after an Indian physicist, describes the scattering of a photon by molecules that are excited to higher vibrational energy levels.
Rayleigh scattering
Compton scattering
Raman scattering &lt;AP&gt;
Let's talk about weather! For 10 points each:
This type of front is denoted on maps by a line with alternating semicircles and triangles on it. It occurs when a cold front overtakes a warm front.
The areas in front of and behind cold fronts generally have this pressure relationship with standard atmospheric pressure. Both answers required.
An area of high pressure can alternatively be created from this weather phenomenon, in which air moves outward in a spiral pattern and is replaced by colder, drier air falling from a higher altitude. They go clockwise in the northern hemisphere.
occluded front
higher pressure behind, lower pressure in front [accept clear equivalents]
anticyclone [do not accept "cyclone"] &lt;DM&gt;
Answer the following questions about the field of computational chemistry, for 10 points each:
One branch of computational chemistry deals with calculating these regions around the nucleus where electrons can be found. The atomic type includes s and p varieties.
Quantum chemical calculations attempt to solve this fundamental equation of quantum mechanics that describes the evolution of wave functions over time. It has time-dependent and time-independent forms.
Collections of atoms are frequently simulated using this branch of science. The ergodic hypothesis is a principal postulate in it, and it studies various “ensembles.”
orbital (accept specific orbitals like atomic orbital or molecular orbital)
Schrödinger equation
statistical mechanics (accept stat mech; do not accept or prompt on “statistics” or “mechanics” on their own)
There are left and right cosets in these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these algebraic structures. They’re closed, associative, and have an identity and inverse, but are called “abelian” when they’re commutative.
For a cyclic group of n integers, k is a generator only if this operation of k and n is 1. In general, this gives the largest number that “goes into” both n and k.
This first of three major theorems in group theory states that the kernel of a homomorphism from G to H is a normal subgroup of G, and also that every map factors through the quotient group of G over the kernel.
groups
greatest common divisor (accept factor in place of “divisor”; accept gcf or gcd)
First Isomorphism Theorem (prompt on Fundamental Holomorphism Theorem)
“Bro” it up by answering some questions about bromine, for 10 points each:
Bromine is one of two elements on the periodic table that exists as this phase of matter at standard temperature and pressure, along with mercury.
A historically important organobromine compound was a dye of this color produced by murex snails and named for Tyre. Permanganate compounds exhibit this color in aqueous solution.
Methylmagnesium bromide is an example of these nucleophilic reagents that add to ketones to form tertiary alcohols. When added to carbon dioxide, these reagents react to form carboxylic acids.
liquid
purple (or violet)
Grignard reagent
For 10 points each, demonstrate how well you know your UNIX commands:
The Unix command “rm” is typically used to perform this action on a file or folder. In consumer applications, it’s usually associated with your recycle bin or trash folders.
The “grep” command uses regular expressions to perform this action on a file. In graphs, there are breadth-first and depth-first algorithms for doing it, while humans usually use the linear or binary varieties.
This Unix command lets you use the powers of another user account, but as its name implies, you’re usually using it for root access.
deleting it (accept word forms; accept obvious synonyms like removing it)
searching (accept word forms; accept searching for specific things, like strings)
sudo (prompt on su or superuser do)
The pyrophosphate form of this vitamin is an important cofactor in enzymes. For 10 points each:
Name this vitamin with chemical name thiamine. Insufficient intake of it can lead to Korsakoff’s syndrome and beriberi. Note: we need the number.
A deficiency in this numerically last of the B vitamins can result in pernicious anemia, mania, and even psychosis. Vegans are especially at risk for insufficient intake of this vitamin, since it’s primarily found in animals.
Insufficient intake during pregnancy of folate, or vitamin B9, is strongly associated with this group of congenital disorders. These conditions encompass defects like spina bifida and the Chiari malformation.
vitamin B1 (prompt on vitamin B, without a number; prompt on thiamine if given before read)
vitamin B12 (or cobalamin)
neural tube defects
The force on a moving test charge equals the velocity of the charge crossed with this value. For 10 points each:
Name this force field often contrasted with a similar “electric” variant. It starts at north poles and ends at south poles, including the ones on Earth.
This theorem named for a Frenchman gives the total magnetic flux through any surface as proportional to the current penetrating the surface. Maxwell added a term to this equation involving the time-derivative of the electric field.
Far away from a loop of current, the magnetic field is a dipole field where the dipole moment is equal to the current times this property of the loop.
magnetic field
Ampere’s law
area of the loop
For 10 points each, “build up” your knowledge of electron configurations by answer the following questions:
The name for this principle comes from the German word for “building up.” It states that electrons fill the lowest available energy levels before filling higher energy ones.
One of the implications of the Pauli exclusion principle is that two electrons in the same orbital must have different values for this quantity. Electrons can have a +1 or -1 value for this intrinsic angular momentum.
Exceptions to the Aufbau principle include chromium, copper, and this precious metal with atomic number 46. Its ability to absorb hydrogen readily makes this transition metal a promising medium for hydrogen storage.
Aufbau principle
spin
palladium (prompt on Pd)
Do quizbowl ranker Fred Morlan’s job for him, and help predict some quizbowl results. For 10 points each:
First, you’ll need to find how much the teams vary from the mean by getting this “standard” measure. It’s the square root of the variance, and 95% of the data lies within two of these widths in a bell curve.
Then, you can predict the actual games by using this “simple” fit. It’s different from similar multiple or polynomial types, and predicts y-values using a single explanatory x-variable.
Once the games actually happen, you can see how well you did using this value. It measures the approximate difference between a predicted data set and the actual data set, and r squared is equal to one minus this value over the TSS.
standard deviation
simple linear regression (prompt on regression; prompt on just lines, I guess)
residual sum of squares (or RSS; prompt on residuals or sum of squares; accept sum of squared residuals and other word orders and SSR; accept sum of squared errors of prediction or SSE)
For 10 points each, answer some questions about unresolved questions in math and science:
Physicists have yet to figure out the exact nature of the kind of energy and matter prefixed by this adjective. This adjective refers to the “invisibility” of that energy and matter to all electromagnetic radiation.
It is unknown whether the product of e and π can be grouped as one of these non-algebraic numbers. While all of these numbers are irrational, the reverse is not true.
The paradox of the plankton asks why the wide diversity of phytoplankton species appears to contradict this ecological principle. This principle is also known as Gause’s law, and it leads to the development of ecological niches.
dark
transcendental numbers
competitive exclusion principle
Researchers found that the volume of these structures is increased in conservatives compared to liberals. For 10 points each:
Name this pair of almond-shaped structures. Among other senses, smell is fed directly to it by the olfactory bulb.
The amygdala abuts directly into the hippocampus. Damage to the hippocampus can result in the anterograde form of this condition, in which new memories can’t be formed.
Both the amygdala and hippocampus are part of this complex, interconnected “system” responsible for emotion and memory functions. It also includes the hypothalamus and fornix, and derives its name from the Latin for border.
amygdalae
anterograde amnesia
limbic system
Simple machines are fun for the whole family, at every age. For 10 points each:
First, name this simplest of the simple machines, which has a mechanical advantage equal to its slope. It’s basically a fancy name for a ramp.
The mechanical advantage of this machine is equal to the length of its axial lead, divided by its pitch. It can be viewed as employing a wrapped incline plane in its design.
If the mechanical advantage of a screw is equal to 3, this is the speed that the lead must be turning for the descending velocity of the screw to be equal to 3 millimeters per second.
inclined plane (prompt on incline or plane or ramp)
screw
9 millimeters per second
For 10 points each, answer the following questions relating to RNA:
In addition to having different sugars, RNA differs from DNA by having this pyrimidine nucleobase. This “U” nucleotide is the demethylated form of thymine.
It turns out RNA molecules can also act as catalysts, as evidenced by ribozymes that mediate peptidyl transferase activity in these organelles. There are A, P, and E sites in this organelle that help it chain together polypeptides.
Scientists at Merck discovered an antibiotic that inhibits this non-coding structural element on bacterial mRNAs. These elements bind to metabolites such as FMN and regulate expression of the downstream gene.
uracil (prompt on U)
ribosome
riboswitch
Agile. Lean. Other buzzwords. For 10 points each, name some things related to software development:
Perhaps the most fundamental part of development is looking for these unexpected defects in your code. Grace Hopper originally coined the name for these problems when she found a literal moth in one of her servers.
To properly work with your team, you’ll need to use version control on your code. By far the most popular version control system is this one invented by Linus Torvalds, which is also hosted on a namesake “Hub” website.
The “waterfall” model usually puts this stage of development after “coding,” though agile development does it concurrently. Its “Unit” type considers isolated code chunks.
bugs (accept debugging and word forms)
git (accept GitHub.com)
testing (do not prompt on synonyms)
This function’s namesake law equates the ratios of the side-lengths to this function of the respective angle. For 10 points each:
Name this function commonly stated in a right triangle as “opposite over hypotenuse.” It’s one of the main trigonometric functions, with cosine and tangent.
This is the sine of sixty degrees, or pi over three radians. You can use the image of a 30-60-90 triangle with a hypotenuse of one to help you.
These entities represent periodic functions by transforming them into sums of sines and cosines. Alternatively, these entities can use any orthonormal complex exponentials, not just sines and cosines.
sine (accept sinusoidal or sine wave)
square root of three over two (basically, accept anything equal to this: $\frac{}{2}$)
Fourier series
Potassium tert-butoxide is important. Let’s find out why, for 10 points each:
Notably, potassium tert-butoxide is a strong compound of this type without being a strong nucleophile as well. By the Brønsted-Lowry definition, these compounds accept protons from acids.
As a strong base and weak nucleophile, potassium tert-butoxide can participate in this class of reactions, without causing competing substitution reactions. More generally, these reactions remove groups from the reactant, and dehydration reactions are an example.
Schlosser’s base can be made from combining potassium tert-butoxide with a compound containing this other metal. The aluminum hydride of this metal is a very common reducing agent.
bases
elimination (accept word forms; accept E1 or E2)
lithium (prompt on Li)
The Mantoux test for this disease directly injects PPD under the skin. For 10 points each:
Name this infectious disease caused by the namesake bacteria of the genus Mycobacterium. Historically, it was called consumption.
This founder of modern microbiology identified the causative agent of tuberculosis, cholera, and anthrax. His four postulates are used to establish a causal relationship between a pathogen and a disease.
Koch’s postulates helped supplant this paradigm with modern germ theory. Francesco Redi and Lazzaro Spallanzani were among the first to discredit this theory.
tuberculosis
Robert Koch
spontaneous generation
This element was provisionally named eka-manganese by Mendeleev. For 10 points each:
Name this element with atomic number 43 and chemical symbol Tc. This element’s 98-isotope has a half-life of 4.2 million years and can be detected in the spectrum of some red giants.
Technetium is part of this group of “metals” located in the d-block of the periodic table. These elements usually have several oxidation states, making them useful as catalysts.
Technetium-99m displays this phenomenon, in which a system spends an extended period of time in a state that does not have the least energy. Diamonds and avalanches also display this phenomenon.
technetium
transition metals
metastability (accept word forms)
When one of John von Neumann’s students once asked if a homework problem had another solution, he thought and then said: “Yes.” For 10 points each:
In another anecdote, von Neumann complained about a student failing to understand even after von Neumann gave the answer twice to a problem involving this operation. This operation can be approximated numerically using Simpson’s rule, or as the limit of Riemann sums.
In a third anecdote, von Neumann instantly solved a brainteaser by calculating one of these infinite sums rather than use the actual trick solution. Informally, they’re the sum of infinite sequences, and they can be convergent or divergent.
More seriously, with Bernays and Gödel, von Neumann names an extension to this axiomatic system of set theory. When the axiom of choice is included in this theory, it’s abbreviated ZFC.
integration (accept word forms; accept anti-derivative or anti-differentiation and their word forms)
series
Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory (prompt on ZFC)
The differential equation described by this adjective is contrasted with the “ordinary” variety. For 10 points each:
Give this adjective that describes a type of derivative with a unique “backwards six” notation. That derivative described by this adjective is usually “with respect to” a particular variable.
This is the partial derivative of “y squared” with respect to x. Incidentally, it’s also the regular derivative of any constant, as well as the slope of a flat line.
This entity is filled with the partial derivatives of every variable on every value in a vector valued function. The Hessian is formed by forming this entity with respect to the gradient.
partial
zero
Jacobian matrix
This scientist’s 1924 thesis first proposed that all matter also behaved like waves. For 10 points each:
Name this French physicist. His namesake equation states that a particle’s wavelength is equal to Planck’s constant divided by its momentum.
This experiment confirmed a specific instance of de Broglie’s hypothesis by firing particles at a crystalline nickel target. The outcome of this experiment closely matched those predicted by Bragg’s law.
The Davisson-Germer experiment used a beam of these leptons that are also found in cathode rays. J.J. Thompson discovered these particles that have a charge of minus one.
Louis-Victor-Pierre-Raymond, 7e duc de Broglie [“duh BROY”, but accept any reasonable pronunciation]
Davisson-Germer experiment (prompt on partial answer)
electrons (prompt on e-)
Water is called a “universal” one of these substances. For 10 points each:
Name these substances that dissolve solutes, resulting in a solution. In green chemistry, scientists avoid using these substances wherever possible to reduce waste and pollution.
This common lab solvent is protic is the simplest alcohol, containing a single carbon. It has the common name wood alcohol, but we want the IUPAC name.
Unlike methanol, this other common lab solvent is aprotic. This solvent is a cyclic ether with four carbons, and it is the solvent of choice for hydroboration-oxidation reactions.
solvents
methanol
tetrahydrofuran (or THF)
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the coolest clade in the animal kingdom:
First name this group of aquatic mammals that includes the largest animal on Earth. The name of the cetacean clade comes from the Latin for this animal.
The tiny hindlimbs in cetacean skeletons are examples of this type of structure. Other examples of these structures include the human appendix and wings on flightless birds.
The population of this functionally extinct cetacean species was severely impacted by the construction of the Three Gorges Dam. Noise pollution from ships also prevents members of this species from using sonar to navigate.
whales (accept blue whale)
vestigial structures
Yangtze river dolphin (or baiji; prompt on just dolphin, I guess)
This law can be derived by making a quadratic approximation to potential energy at stable equilibria. For 10 points each:
Name this law applicable to simple harmonic oscillators. It states that the restoring force is proportional to and opposes the displacement force, and contains a constant named for the devices to which this law is most often applied.
Hooke’s law is usually applied to springs, but it also applies to these devices. They usually consist of some weight swinging freely from a pivot, and the “double” type is a good example of chaotic motion.
Actually, Hooke’s law only applies to pendulums when angles are small. In that approximation, the sine of an angle x can be replaced by this simpler value.
Hooke’s law
pendulums (or pendula)
x
One variant of this technique is the hanging drop method. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which well-ordered solids precipitate out of a solution. The two major events of this process are nucleation and growth.
The atomic structure of crystals can be determined by shooting it with a beam of this type of electromagnetic radiation and analyzing the resulting diffraction pattern. Rosalind Franklin notably used that type of crystallography.
This academic institution hosts the world’s largest repository of experimentally determined organic crystal structures in its namesake “Structural Database.” Frederick Sanger won multiple Nobel Prizes in Chemistry while working at this university.
crystallization (accept word forms)
X-rays (accept X-ray crystallography)
Cambridge University
For 10 points each, pull out your magnifying glass and closely examine this question on lenses:
The lensmaker’s equation gives the inverse of this quantity symbolized lowercase f. It represents the distance from the lens to the point at which the rays converge.
Gravitational lensing observed during one of these events confirmed Einstein’s theory of general relativity. The total type of these events occur when the moon passes in front of the sun.
These proteins are the predominant structural proteins found in the lens of of the eye. The alpha subtype serves as a molecular chaperone and maintains the transparency of the lens.
focal length (prompt on lowercase f; prompt on length or focus)
solar eclipse (prompt on eclipse; do not accept or prompt on “lunar eclipse”)
crystallin
For 10 points each, answer some questions about a physical constant that measures the strength of one of the four fundamental forces:
First, give this letter, a constant that appears Isaac Newton’s law of universal gravitation. We want the letter and the case!
71 years after Newton first named it, this man actually determined the value of G for the first time in a shed he had in his backyard. This man mistakenly thought that the constant he had measured was the mass of the Earth.
Cavendish’s experiment involved the use of this device which was invented by Coulomb and John Michell independently. It entails of a spring which exerts a torque opposite the direction it is twisted proportional to the amount it is twisted.
uppercase G (prompt on just “[gee]”; prompt on universal gravitational constant or Newton’s constant; accept any reasonable synonym for uppercase, like “big”; do not accept or prompt on little g)
Henry Cavendish
torsion balance (prompt on “balance”)
The energy of an body moving under a gravitational central force is proportional to the square of this value minus 1. For 10 points each:
Name this value. It’s the magnitude of the conserved LRL-vector, and it multiplies “cosine theta” in the denominator of an equation giving the distance between two objects.
The eccentricity appears when using this law arguing stating that orbits are elliptical. It’s usually paired with other laws formulated by the same scientist about a line sweeping out equal areas, and about the orbital period and semi-major axis.
Kepler formulated his first law by studying the path of this planet using very accurate data about its position collected by Tycho Brahe. Olympus Mons is a massive volcano on this planet.
eccentricity (accept word forms)
Kepler’s First Law (prompt on Kepler’s Laws)
Mars
Subtypes of this disorder include the “Pure-O” type and excoriation, or skin-picking. For 10 points each:
Name this psychological disorder characterized by a debilitating focus on the completion of “rituals.” It can be measured on the Yale-Brown scale.
The DSM-V includes this specific behavior among the obsessive-compulsive related disorders. It entails the compulsive inability to throw anything away, and usually leads to unsanitary living conditions a lot less entertaining in real life than reality TV shows make it seem.
After therapy, the most common treatment for OCD is a class of drugs named for their ability to “selectively” inhibit the reuptake of this molecule. Popular antidepressants that increase the level of this molecule include Celexa and Prozac.
obsessive-compulsive disorder (or OCD)
compulsive hoarding (accept word forms)
serotonin (accept selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors; prompt on SSRIs)
This scientist essentially founded atomic-molecular theory. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian scientist whose namesake law states that equal volumes of gases have the same number of molecules at the same temperature and pressure. In other words, his law states that V is proportional to n.
Avogadro’s famous “number” is approximately 6.02 times 10 to the 23rd, and relates the number of atoms in this SI unit of measurement. Despite its name, it has nothing to do with animals.
This value is defined as the ideal gas constant divided by Avogadro’s number and is approximately 1.38 times 10 to the negative 23rd Joules per Kelvin.
Amedeo Avogadro
moles
Boltzmann constant (prompt on “lowercase k”)
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the source of genetic variation:
These permanent alterations to an organism’s genome can be either somatic or gametic. They can be induced by chemicals, such as alkylating agents.
Synonymous mutations are a consequence of this redundant property of the genetic code, in which different sequences code for the same thing. This term is also used to describe atomic orbitals that have the same energy.
This technique uses Southern blots to identify mutations at restriction sites, since different fragment lengths will be produced after digestion. This technique was formerly used in paternity testing and genetic fingerprinting.
mutations
degeneracy (accept word forms)
restriction fragment length polymorphism (or RFLP)
For 10 points each, answer some questions that test your mastery of cell biology:
Name this structure responsible for the synthesis of ribosomes. It lives inside a similarly named organelle that houses the cell’s genetic material.
Some ribosomes synthesized in the nucleolus are destined for the “rough” type of this membranous organelle. This organelle is continuous with the outer nuclear membrane and is made up of many cisternae.
Interest in the structure and function of the nucleolus was first sparked by research using this amphibian model organism. This organism’s large eggs make it an ideal tool to study embryological development.
nucleolus (do not accept or prompt on “nucleus”)
endoplasmic reticulum (or ER)
Xenopus laevis
CFCs were phased out after it was discovered that they depleted this molecule. For 10 points each:
Give this molecule whose namesake “hole” is being created in the stratosphere. Crutzen, Molina, and Rowland were awarded the 1995 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on this triatomic oxygen-based molecule.
These highly reactive species have one or more unpaired electrons and catalyze the breakdown of ozone into oxygen. They’re usually described by the adjective “free.”
Ozone is a pollutant in the lower troposphere, since it attacks these structures that are part of conjugated systems. These structures can be created among carbon atoms in the Wittig reaction.
ozone (prompt on O3)
free radicals
double bonds (prompt on bonds)
The stage of building an executable named for this language type immediately precedes the linking stage. For 10 points each:
Name this language type. Common instructions in it include things like moving register memory and jumping to specific labels.
Assembling in turn follows this process in which source code is translated into machine code. A “makefile” is usually used for this process in C, and in general it’s more loosely described as the last step before running code.
Of course, there’s no guaranteeing you’re making an executable for the right reasons...your executable might even be one of these pieces of self-replicating malware. Don’t confuse them with similar worms or Trojan horses.
assembly (or asm; accept word forms)
compiling (accept word forms)
viruses (prompt on malware)
In this phenomenon, kinetic energies of ejected electrons are proportional to the energy of light quanta, minus a threshold. For 10 points each:
Name this effect, which can best be demonstrated by shining UV light onto the surface of a zinc plate.
The photoelectric effect was first observed by this German scientist. He also names the SI unit of frequency.
When photons have much higher energies, this inelastic scattering process may occur instead of photoelectric scattering. In this process, the photon’s wavelength increases proportional to Planck’s constant over the mass of the electron times the speed of light.
photoelectric effect
Heinrich Hertz
Compton scattering
For 10 points each, answer the following questions related to a certain nucleocytoplasmic large DNA virus:
The mimivirus infects these unicellular eukaryotes which move through the use of pseudopods. These organisms common in lab petri dishes have no defined shape, and a “brain-eating” kind can infect people swimming in the wild.
The mimivirus is so large it has its own parasites called virophages, which are suspected to mediate this biological process. In this process, DNA is passed between unrelated species, and it can occur through bacterial conjugation.
The mimivirus’s genome codes for enzymes that catalyze the esterification of an amino acid onto this molecule. This molecule has structural features like the D arm, acceptor stem, and variable loop.
amoeba
horizontal gene transfer (or lateral gene transfer; prompt on gene transfer)
transfer RNA (or tRNA; do not prompt on just “RNA”)
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about inversions:
Population inversion is key to the operation of these devices that emit light through the stimulated emission of radiation. Pointing one of these devices at flying aircraft is a federal crime and generally a dumb thing to do.
Chromosome inversions are called pericentric when they include this region of the chromosome that links sister chromatids together. This chromosomal region is also the location of kinetochore assembly.
Temperature inversions in the atmosphere can lead to this weather phenomenon that results in the accumulation of glaze ice. Unlike sleet, this weather phenomenon is entirely made up of liquid droplets.
laser
centromere
freezing rain (do not accept or prompt on just rain)
Le Chatelier’s principle explains why these solutions work. For 10 points each:
Name these solutions. The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation is often used to find the “capacity” of these solutions to resist the addition of certain other compounds.
The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation is also used during this lab technique. In this technique you drip one compound into a solution of unknown concentration using a buret until something like a color change happens.
At this point on a titration curve for acids, the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation simplifies to pH equals pKa, since exactly half of the acid has decomposed to its conjugate.
buffers (do not accept or prompt on “bases” or “acids”)
titration (accept word forms, like titrate)
half-equivalence point (do not accept or prompt on “equivalence point” by itself)
The virtual variety of these particles are carriers for the electromagnetic force. For 10 points each:
Name these massless particles. They’re the quanta of light, and so have momentum and energy proportional to frequency.
Photons are a type of these force-carrying particles in physics. One of these particles was the most recent in the Standard Model to be found, with the help of the Large Hadron Collider.
Photons have a spin of this value, and therefore the Hilbert-space of spinors that describe the photon’s spin is three-dimensional. This is also the spin of the J-psi particle.
photons
bosons (accept specific types)
spin-1
This hard and dense tissue is primarily composed of collagen and hydroxyapatite. For 10 points each:
Name this connective tissue. It makes up the outer layer of an organ whose insides consist of marrow.
Bone formation is mediated by these cells, which arise from mesenchymal stem cells and differentiate into osteocytes when they are surrounded by the mineral matrix that they secrete. Don’t confuse them with osteoclasts.
This hormone lowers blood calcium levels by simultaneously stimulating osteoblast activity and inhibiting osteoclast activity. This hormone is produced and secreted by the parafollicular cells of the thyroid gland.
bone
osteoblasts
calcitonin
Sun dogs and light pillars are examples of these optical phenomena. For 10 points each:
Name this family of optical phenomena that result when light interacts with ice crystals in the atmosphere. A characteristic one of these has an arc degree of 22 degrees.
In this optical phenomenon, light rays are refracted due to temperature inversions in the air. In the inferior type, a weary traveler in the desert might see a nonexistent lake far off in the distance.
These temporary fluctuations to the Earth’s magnetosphere associated with coronal mass ejections can cause auroras as far south as Texas. A 1989 occurrence of them caused massive power outages in Quebec.
halos
mirages
geomagnetic storms
Behaviors described by this term are most frequently observed in kin relationships. For 10 points each:
First, give this biological behavior in which an organism increases the fitness of another organism at the expense of its own fitness. In humans, we might call it charity or selflessness, and it’s encouraged by many religions.
Altruism is prefixed by this adjective if an individual helps an unrelated individual with the expectation the favor will be returned later. Altruism under this label might be symmetry-based or attitudinal.
Hamilton’s rule measures the tendency for altruism in kinship by using this degree of consanguinity between two individuals. The value of this “coefficient” is equal to one for identical twins, and a similar measure exists for inbreeding.
altruism (accept word forms)
reciprocal (accept word forms)
coefficient of relationship (prompt on lowercase r)
For 10 points each, answer the following questions relating to the energetics of chemical reactions:
First name this type of “energy” required for a reaction to begin. This “barrier” to reaction can be lowered by catalysts.
The activation energy represents the free energy difference between the reactants and these transient high-energy structures. Enzymes catalyze biological reactions by stabilizing these structures.
This abstract one-dimensional entity represents the progress of a reaction from reactants to products. These entities are usually graphed against free energy in a reaction’s potential energy profile.
activation energy (prompt on Ea)
transition state (accept activated complex)
reaction coordinate
The symbol for this object is a zig-zag line. For 10 points each:
Name these electronic objects. The variable type is called a rheostat, and they’re usually marked with color-coded bands.
Resistors are measured in the unit named for this man, whose namesake law states that voltage equals current times resistance.
These resistors have three terminals and a sliding component used as an adjustable voltage divider. They have “thumb” and “trimmer” types, as well as digital versions.
resistors
Georg Ohm (accept ohms or Ohm’s Law)
potentiometer (or potmeter or pot)
Bacteria of the genus <em>Mycoplasma</em> are unique among prokaryotes in that they lack this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this rigid structural layer outside the cell membrane that also surrounds the cells of plants and fungi. These structures protect the cells they enclose from osmotic lysis.
In plants, the cell wall is mainly made up of xylan, lignin, and this polymer. This straight-chain polymer is additionally found in dietary fiber and bacterial biofilms.
These waxy deposits of suberin in the cell wall interrupt the apoplastic pathway in plant roots. These diffusion barriers prevent water and minerals from leaking from the stele to the cortex.
cell wall
cellulose
Casparian strip
The Google DeepMind Go-playing program AlphaGo relied on these constructs. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs. They work by setting a bunch of weights and learning rules, and then growing naturally, just like their namesake biological constructs.
Neural nets were developed in the field of machine learning, itself a subfield of this division of computer science that seeks to simulate human brains in computers and programs. A persistent fear in this field is the rise of the “singularity.”
A primitive form of machine learning is the usage of these classifiers that rely on priors and their namesake law from probability. The naive form of these classifiers are commonly used to filter spam.
neural networks
artificial intelligence (or AI)
naive Bayesian classifier
English physicist Henry Moseley observed the frequency of the most intense short-wavelength x-ray line in the atomic spectrum of each of the elements. For 10 points each:
Moseley’s law states that the K-alpha frequency scales as this function of atomic number. The Rydberg formula’s prediction for the energy of an electron is also inversely proportional to this function of atomic number.
This value is equal to the atomic number plus the number of neutrons, meaning it’s equal to the number of protons and neutrons in a nucleus.
This type of decay notably doesn’t change mass number. It’s most likely for certain nuclides such as technetium-99m and many forms of U-238, and involves the emission of light.
square (accept obvious equivalents, also accept “(Z-1) squared”)
mass number
gamma decay
Romer’s gap in the fossil record is associated with this geologic period. For 10 points each:
Name this period sandwiched between the Devonian and Permian periods. Its name refers to the large deposits of coal associated with this period.
The large size of organisms in this phylum during the Carboniferous period can be attributed to high levels of atmospheric oxygen. Creepy-crawlies in this phylum include spiders, centipedes, and crabs.
The Carboniferous period also marked the first appearance of this clade of tetrapods whose embryos are surrounded by a namesake membrane. This clade comprises the mammals, reptiles, and birds.
Carboniferous period
Arthropoda (or arthropods)
amniotes
This process occurs when the escape path is smaller than the gas’s mean free path. For 10 points each:
Name this process, usually described with pinholes. Graham’s law states that the rate of this process is inversely proportional to the mass of a gas.
Graham’s law is the basis of isotope separation in the enrichment of this radioactive element with atomic number 92. This element’s 235-isotope is found in the mineral pitchblende, and it’s often used in nuclear devices.
The kinetic molecular theory of gases can be used to find this property of gases that is also inversely proportional to molecular mass. It’s usually given as the square root of “3 R T” over the molar mass.
effusion (accept word forms; prompt on diffusion and its word forms)
uranium (prompt on U)
root mean square speed (or root mean square velocity; accept RMS in place of “root mean square,” but speed or velocity is still needed)
Despite winning two Nobel Prizes, this scientist made some spectacularly wrong claims. For 10 points each:
First, name this scientist who proposed megadoses of vitamin C to treat the common cold. His more successful work involves orbital hybridization and proposing the concept of resonance.
Pauling also proposed that DNA existed as a helix with this number of strands. This is the number of phosphate groups in the ATP molecule.
One thing Pauling correctly proposed was the molecular basis of this disease caused by the V6E mutation on the protein product of the HBB gene. Hydroxyurea is used to treat this autosomal recessive disease.
Linus Carl Pauling
three (accept adenosine triphosphate)
sickle cell anemia
The parallel axis and tennis racket theorems are useful in calculating this value. For 10 points each:
Give this physical value. You can find it by integrating over r-squared for every mass element, and its value is two-thirds m r-squared for a hollow sphere.
This value is equal to the moment of inertia times the angular velocity. It’s the rotational analogue of a similar “linear” value, and it explains why ice skaters speed up when bringing their arms in.
For spin, angular momentum operators can be written as these three matrices. They’re named for a man who also names a theorem explaining why fermions cannot share quantum states.
moment of inertia (prompt on “uppercase I”; do not accept or prompt on “inertia”)
angular momentum (prompt on “uppercase L”; prompt on momentum)
Pauli matrices (accept Wolfgang Pauli)
For 10 points each, answer the following about large-scale structures in our universe:
This spiral galaxy is the nearest galaxy to the Milky Way. This galaxy is also named M31, and it’s predicted to merge with the Milky Way in the next few billion years.
These structures comprising hundreds of galaxies are some of the largest gravitationally bound structures in the Universe. The Milky Way is in the Virgo “super” one of these groups.
These regions with low cosmic densities are typically located between galactic filaments. A “super” example of these regions is located near the constellation of Boötes and is approximately 300 million light-years in diameter.
Andromeda galaxy
galaxy clusters (or superclusters)
cosmic voids
The constant-volume type of this device is also known as the “bomb” type. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that measure the heat produced by chemical reactions. When using these devices, you typically take the temperature change and multiply by the specific heat and mass.
Isothermal titration calorimetry can be used in this branch of chemistry to determine the needed amounts of starting reagent to reach the midpoint. In general, this branch of chemistry uses chemical equations to find the proper ratios of start reactants to achieve desired product.
In this variant of calorimetry, the heat capacity of a sample is measured as a function of temperature. The thermal transitions of a polymer can be determined using this technique.
calorimeters (accept word forms)
stoichiometry (accept word forms)
differential scanning calorimetry (prompt on DSC)
Apple just released another new Mac, and naturally you’re too poor to buy one, so instead you decide to build your own PC. For 10 points each:
Not knowing much, you ask the store clerk where you can download some RAM. The clerk informs you that RAM is actually a physical component that holds the “Random Access [this].” There’s also a Read-Only component for this data storage medium.
Knowing a little more now, you learn you need one of these main components. These circuit boards are the foundation of the computer, and are connected to memory and the CPU.
The motherboard is also attached to these components that allow the various PC components to talk to each other. In a computer, there are internal and expansion kinds, and USB is just an industry standard for these components.
memory (accept “Random Access Memory” or “Read-Only Memory”)
motherboard (accept mainboard or system board or logic board or mobo)
buses (accept different kinds of buses; accept Universal Serial Bus, but not just, like “Serial”)
For 10 points each, name the following things related to the deadliest animal in the world:
First, name this animal whose bites result in the death of more than a million people every year. These blood-sucking pests carry diseases such as yellow fever, West Nile fever, and dengue.
Mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles transmit this protozoan disease caused by various Plasmodium species. Patients lacking the Duffy antigen on red blood cells are genetically resistant to this disease.
Tu Youyou received the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for discovering this antimalarial drug that isn’t quinine. This drug contains an endoperoxide bridge that researchers believe is essential for its mechanism.
mosquitoes (accept Culicidae; accept specific species; Writer’s note: prompt on those annoying little @#$% that bit me non-stop during my summer in New York)
malaria
artemisinin
The largest ecoregion of this biome in the world is located in Siberia. For 10 points each:
Name this largest land biome on Earth. It is dominated by coniferous forests, and the acidic and nutrient-poor soils of this biome are called spodosols.
A better known biome is this extremely dry kind. The typical imagery of them is the hot and dry kind, though there are also coastal and cold varieties.
The climate of taigas is classified as Dfc, Dwc, and Dsc according to this climate classification system. Within this system, tropical climates fall under Group A, while dry climates fall under Group B.
taiga (or boreal forest)
desert
Köppen climate classification
In a futile effort to fix CSI’s harmful impact on the public, let’s learn about hacking. For 10 points each:
Protecting your personal computer from hacking typically involves setting up these pieces of software that block unverified connections. They’re called walls, but are more like filters.
Richard Stallman coined this term for a category of hackers who hack for malicious or personal reasons. They’re contrasted with a similarly named “white” variety.
A common hacking tool are these pieces of software which, when installed, give the hacker total administrative control over the computer or server. A 2005 scandal found Sony CDs were actually installing these as part of DRM.
firewall
black hat hacker (prompt on just black or hat)
rootkits
Guillaume Amontons proved that this force is independent of the surface areas of the surfaces in contact. For 10 points each:
Name this force that opposes motion. It is equal to the normal force times a namesake coefficient.
For a mass sliding down an inclined plane at a constant velocity, the friction force is proportional to this function of the angle of the inclined plane. In general, this function gives the horizontal aspect of a vector.
The arctangent of the coefficient of static friction can be used to approximate this value, which gives the maximum angle a pile of material can make with the ground without collapsing.
friction
cosine
angle of repose
Siphonophores and chondrophores are orders in this phylum. For 10 points each:
Name this phylum which includes classes like Anthozoa and Myxozoa. They appear as either sessile polyps or swimming medusae, and possess a characteristic stinging cell.
The most famous members of Cnidaria are these animals whose tentacles deliver the toxin in their cnidocytes. The Portuguese man o’war looks like one of these animals, but is actually a siphonophore.
Another interesting cnidarian species is Turritopsis dorhii, which has this ability since it can undergo transdifferentiation. Other animals that appear to possess this ability include hydras and some planarian flatworms.
Cnidaria [the “c” is silent] (or cnidarians)
jellyfish (accept Medusazoa)
biological immortality (accept word forms; prompt on descriptions like living forever by saying “we need the scientific term”)
Show off your knowledge of linear algebra, for 10 points each:
A common entity studied in linear algebra are these row-like entities with multiple coordinates. In physics, they’re drawn as arrows, and velocity is one of these entities since it has both magnitude and direction.
Another common entity is the matrix, and this property of the matrix that can be calculated with Sarrus’ rule. For a two by two matrix entries a, b, c, and d, this quantity is given by “a times d minus b times c.”
This theorem states that the sum of its two namesake quantities is equal to the dimensions of the matrix itself. The two quantities in this theorem are respectively the dimension of the image and the dimension of the kernel.
vector
determinant
rank-nullity theorem (accept rank and null in any order)
Answer the following question about recent Nobel prizes. For 10 points each:
The Nobel prize in Chemistry in 2014 was given to Eric Betzig for this type of fluorescent microscopy, which allows researchers to see details smaller than 400 nanometers and even track single molecules inside cells.
That same year, the Nobel in physics was given to Japanese researchers who were finally able to make LEDs of this color. Stars of this color include Rigel, and have spectral class O and A.
The 2010 physics Nobel was given to two Russian scientists for discovering graphene, a one-atom-thick allotrope of this element.
super-resolution imaging / microscopy (accept equivalents)
blue
carbon
Thin film solar cells contain silicon of this type. For 10 points each:
Give these solids that lack long-range crystalline structure.
Glasses are both amorphous and a noncrystalline form of these inorganic, nonmetallic solids that tend to be good thermal and electrical insulators. You might have made the porcelain variety in pottery class.
The main variety of this polymer glass is formed by repeating units of bisphenol A. It is a major component of bulletproof glass, laboratory safety glasses, and compact discs.
amorphous solids
ceramics
polycarbonates
For 10 points each, “see” if you can get all “three” parts of this bonus about C3:
In plant biology, C3 is one of three ways to accomplish this process in which inorganic carbon is converted to organic carbon. Other ways of accomplishing this process include C4 and CAM.
This molecule possesses a C3 symmetry axis. It’s the main product of the Haber-Bosch process, and is mainly used for its valuable properties a farm fertilizer.
In computing, the C3 linearization algorithm is used to solve the multiple type of this property, which then leads to the “deadly diamond of death.” It also has a single type, and is often – but not always! – the same as subtyping.
carbon fixation (or carbon assimilation; prompt on partial answers)
ammonia (accept NH3)
inheritance (accept word forms)
Yoshinori Ohsumi won the 2016 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process through which the cell degrades and recycles cell components. The name for this process comes from the Greek for “eat oneself.”
One mechanism for autophagy depends on this family of proteins that primarily serve as chaperones. Despite their name, these stress proteins are also expressed upon exposure to UV light, hypoxia, and low temperatures.
In macroautophagy, autophagosomes enclose damaged cell components and fuse with this organelle. These digestive organelles break down old cell waste.
autophagy (accept word forms, like autophage)
heat shock proteins
lysosome
Inhibition of PCSK9 has been shown to reduce levels of this lipid molecule. For 10 points each:
Name this steroid molecule that maintains the fluidity of animal cell membranes. HDL is its “good” kind, while LDL is its “bad” kind.
Cholesterol levels are more commonly lowered by this class of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Lipitor is part of this class of lipid-lowering drugs.
These cholesterol derivatives exemplified by cortisol downregulate the inflammatory response. Unlike mineralocorticoids, these steroid hormones are not involved in the regulation of blood electrolyte levels.
cholesterol
statins
glucocorticoids (or glucocorticosteroids)
Tsiolkovsky derived an equation and applied it to the thrust of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these objects that typically fire propellant out of their ends to go up really fast and really high. A space shuttle might include these devices and a payload.
This American scientist was effectively the father of rocket science. Despite often outright mocking from the public, he became the first to invent a liquid-fuel rocket.
The rocket equation equates the change in velocity to this value times the natural log of initial mass over mass. In general, this value is the specific impulse times gravity.
rockets (Ed’s note: prompt on up-goer)
Robert Goddard
effective exhaust velocity (prompt on just velocity; accept exhaust speed and likewise prompt on speed)
Answer some questions about the scientific revolution, for 10 points each.
This Italian physicist massively improved the telescope and used it to discover four of Jupiter's moons. He was placed under house arrest for refuting the Church's ideas in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems.
This Dutchman invented the pendulum clock and the word "centrifugal force." He also developed a wave theory of light, and explained how Saturn's rings were formed.
Another Dutch scientist, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek ["LAY-ven-hurk"] made the first usable one of these devices. Robert Hooke, who coined the biological use of the word "cell," was another pioneer of their use.
Galileo Galilei [accept either name]
Christiaan Huygens
microscopes
One example of this kind of curve is given by the function "one over one plus e to the minus t." For 10 points each:
 Name this type of curve, which approaches two different horizontal asymptotes, one going to the right and one going to the left.
 Logistic functions are an important way to model population growth. The higher of the two asymptotes then represents this quantity, the maximum population that the environment can support.
Two variables in the logistic population function lend their names to types of reproductive strategies. Name either letter. One stands for selection involving many low-cost offspring, while the other focuses on a few high-cost offspring.
 the logistic function [or sigmoid curve; prompt on anything mentioning an "S" shape]
carrying capacity [note (do NOT read this note out loud!): if they say "K," accept it, but DO NOT mention that letter otherwise!]
 r or K [accept r/K selection; "r" stands for "growth rate" and "k" for "carrying capacity"] 
The Minkowski-Bouligand, or box-counting dimension is used on these objects. For 10 points each
Name these objects that are the same no matter how far you zoom in or out. Examples of them include the Koch snowflake and the Sierpinski triangle.
Another famous class of fractals is given by plotting the recursion "z sub n equals quantity: "z sub n minus 1" squared; plus c," which is this Yale mathematician's set. He coined the word "fractal."
In one of the first papers on fractals, Mandelbrot noted a paradox in measuring this aspect of Britain.
 fractal
Benoit B. Mandelbrot [the "B," of course, stands for "Benoit B. Mandelbrot"]
 the length of its coastline [accept any answer involving the coast of BritainÂ—the paper is titled "How Long is the Coast of Britain? Statistical Self-Similarity and Fractal Dimension"] 
This quantity is equal to voltage divided by current by Ohm's law, For 10 points each
Name this opposition to the flow of current that is absent in superconductors.
This is the AC analog of resistance. Its real part is the resistance and its imaginary part is the reactance.
For an inductor with zero resistance, the reactance is this many degrees out of phase with the current. That's because this many degrees are added to change a cosine into a sine.
electrical resistance [do NOT accept or prompt on "resistivity"]
electrical impedance
negative 90 degrees [or negative pi over 2 radians; accept "minus" instead of "negative"] 
This is the only basic kind of reaction to require two reactants and two products. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of chemical reaction, in which both molecules "switch partners"; that is, AB and CD yield AD and CB.
Many double displacement reactions form precipitates. For instance, if you put aqueous barium chloride and potassium sulfate together, what precipitate will you get?
Another kind of double displacement reaction is neutralization of acids and bases. That reaction is complete at this point on a titration curve.
 double displacement reactions [or double replacement; or salt metathesis; or double decomposition; do NOT accept just "displacement" nor "replacement"]
barium sulfate [or BaSO4; the other "product," potassium chloride, is soluble in water]
equivalence point
It is found in the walls of blood vessels and in the gastrointestinal tract. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of muscle tissue, which is distinct from skeletal and cardiac muscle.
In contrast to smooth muscle, cardiac and skeletal muscles have many of these units, which give them a striated look. In the sliding filament model, one of these extends between two Z-lines.
The sliding filament model explains how muscles contract through the interaction of thin filaments containing this protein and thick filaments containing myosin.
smooth muscle
sarcomeres
actin
It was developed in 1912 by Alfred Wegener to explain how South America and Africa appear to fit together so perfectly. For 10 points each:
Identify this theory that the Earth's landforms have shifted relative to each other. The presence of similar fossils and rock formations on different shores supports this theory.
Seafloor spreading, the mechanism that drives continental drift, is caused by convection currents in the mantle, which allow for this plastic-like upper portion of the mantle.
One piece of evidence supporting seafloor spreading was the presence of these features on the seafloor. The Vine-Matthews-Morley hypothesis links these features with certain cataclysmic reversals.
continental drift [prompt on "plate tectonics"; do NOT accept or prompt on "sea-floor spreading"]
 asthenosphere
magnetic stripes [accept answers mentioning alternating magnetic patterns]
Answer some questions about classical mechanics. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity, equal to the derivative of angular momentum with respect to time.
At equilibrium, the sum of the torques and the sum of the forces acting on an object must both equal this value. Similarly, its net acceleration will also equal this.
Physics students often use these drawings to visualize the forces (and sometimes torques) acting on an object. Usually, the forces on these diagrams are symbolized using arrows.
torque [prompt on "moment of force" or "moment," but do NOT just accept "moment" or "force"; prompt on "tau"]
zero
 free body diagram [prompt on "force diagram"]
This quantity for a reaction is zero at chemical equilibrium. For 10 points each:
 Identify this quantity which equals the opposite of the ideal gas constant times temperature times the natural log of K. It determines the spontaneity of a reaction.
Chemical equilibrium is described by this adjective, which means that forward and reverse reactions continue to happen, but overall reactant and product concentrations remain the same. It is contrasted with static equilibrium.
Give the equilibrium constant for this reaction: A yields B. You should express it in terms of the concentrations of A and B.
Gibbs free energy [prompt on "free energy;" do NOT accept or prompt on "Helmholtz free energy"]
dynamic equilibrium [do NOT accept or prompt on any words except "dynamic"]
the concentration of B over the concentration of A [or the concentration of B divided by the concentration of A; it looks like [B]/[A], so accept answers involving the brackets]
This process most often proceeds by forming vesicles out of coated pits. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a cell engulfs, or "eats" large molecules like proteins.
Endocytosis occurs when the desired molecules are too big to pass through this outer structure of the cell, and the vesicles used in it are formed from this structure. This structure is formed from a flexible phospholipid bilayer.
The most important kind of endocytosis depends on this protein, which coats coated pits. This protein supports the inside of the vesicle.
 endocytosis [if they answer with "phagocytosis," prompt by saying, "they want something more general."]
cell membrane [or plasma membrane; or cytoplasmic membrane]
clathrin
Answer some questions about gel electrophoresis, for 10 points each.
Name either of the two quantities by which molecules are separated in gel electrophoresis.
A common form of gel electrophoresis with proteins uses sodium dodecyl sulfate and this type of gel. Alternatively, give the acronym for that kind of electrophoresis.
After doing electrophoresis, one can use a Northern blot to study this type of molecule. This nucleic acid contains uracil, but is otherwise very much like a single strand of DNA.
 size OR charge [or mass or molecular weight instead of size]
polyacrylamide gel [or SDS-PAGE]
 RNA [or ribonucleic acid] 
Suppose that you are on the Monty Hall game show. For 10 points each.
There are three doors: one conceals a car, and the other two conceal goats. You pick a door, and I open one of the other doors to reveal a goat. If you switch doors to the one I didn't open, what's the probability you see the car?
The probability is two thirds because the final switching choice does not have this property relative to the original door selection. Two events have this property if the outcome of one does not affect the probability of the other.
 If you enter a lottery, you can calculate this quantity by multiplying the probability that you win by the amount of money in the pot. For a million-dollar jackpot that you win with probability 1 in 250 million, this quantity is only 0.25 cents.
two thirds [accept equivalents]
 independence [or independent]
expected value [or EV; or expectation; or first moment; accept average value; accept mean]
The electric field of one of these things can be estimated as: 2 times charge times separation over the quantity: Coulomb's constant times distance cubed. For 10 points each
Name these systems of two equally, but oppositely charged particles. The separation of positive and negative charges is given by their namesake "moment."
For an electric dipole moment in an external field, this quantity, the energy due to the configuration, is equal to the negative dot product of the moment and the field. Change in this quantity is equal to negative work.
The z component of the spin magnetic dipole moment of an electron is this quantity, symbolized "mu sub b." This quantity is equal to elementary charge times Planck's constant over four pi times electron mass.
electric dipoles
potential energy [prompt on "U"]
 Bohr-Procopiu magneton
These things can be made out of two nested styrofoam cups. For 10 points each:
Name these devices used in chemistry to measure the heat of a chemical reaction. They come in a "bomb" variety.
Calorimeters can be used to measure this quantity, which is the amount of energy it takes to raise one gram of substance by one degree celsius. For water, this quantity is one calorie.
According to the Dulong-Petit law, the specific heat of solid at high temperatures is equal to this numerical value times the ideal gas constant.
 calorimeter [accept bomb calorimeter; accept coffee-cup calorimeter]
specific heat capacity [prompt on "heat capacity"]
 three
Answer some questions about randomness, for 10 points each:
The molecular theory of Brownian motion was developed by this German-born physicist, who published a paper on it in 1905, the same "annus mirabilis" that saw him publish a paper on the photoelectric effect.
Many random number generators actually use of this type of algorithm, which appears random but is actually created by a deterministic procedure like picking a number from a "book" based on the current date and time.
Monte Carlo algorithms make use of random samples. One common example calculates the value of this constant by generating a lot random points and looking at how many fall inside a circle.
Albert Einstein
pseudorandom process
 pi [do not accept or prompt on "3.14159Â…"]
These things transfer energy from point to point. For 10 points each:
Name these oscillations or vibrations. Simple ones can be modelled with trigonometric functions like sine.
A stationary wave, one that stays in position, is given this name. These can be formed by waving a rope that's held at both ends at the right frequency or by blowing through an organ pipe.
In a standing wave with frequency 120 Hertz, what is the frequency of the second overtone?
 waves
standing waves
360 Hertz [if anyone says "240 Hertz" remind them that the second overtone is the third harmonic]
This molecule is metabolized into formic acid, which has as many carbons as this molecule does. For 10 points each:
Name this simplest alkane. It has a tetrahedral molecular geometry.
 This theory helps determine the molecular geometry of molecules, including methane. The basic premise of this theory is that electrons want to be as far away from each other as possible.
Sulfur hexafluoride assumes this somewhat unusual molecular geometry.
methane [or CH4]
VSEPR ["vesper"] [or valence shell electron pair repulsion; or Gillespie-Nyholm theory]
 octahedral 
Answer the following questions about heartbeats, for 10 points each.
Each cardiac cycle consists of two phases. This phase is the resting one; the lower number in a blood pressure reading represents the arterial pressure during this phase.
At the end of diastole, this rapid depolarization and repolarization of cell membranes spreads through the heart muscle, inducing the contraction of the myocardium, to begin systole. This event travels along axons in neurons.
Movement of the blood during systole pushes out on the walls of the arteries, causing this phenomenon. It is usually measured at the wrist or side of the neck as an approximation for heart rate.
diastole [accept diastolic]
 action potentials
pulse 
Drugs that combat this pathogen include abacavir [“uh-BACK-uh-veer”] and zidovudine [“ZY-doh-VIEW-deen”], which is also known as AZT. For 10 points each:
Name this virus, infection by which leads to AIDS.
Abacavir and AZT fight HIV by inhibiting the action of this type of enzyme. This class of enzymes violates the central dogma because they create DNA from an RNA transcript, instead of the other way around.
HIV enters the cell through interaction with a complex of this protein and a chemokine receptor like CCR5. On helper T-cells, this protein assists the T-cell receptor in the process of antigen presentation.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus
reverse transcriptase (prompt on “RT”; prompt on “transcriptase”)
CD4 (accept cluster of differentiation 4)
These diagrams can be used to determine the stereochemistry of an E2 reaction. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs used to visualize organic compounds. They usually depict the view looking directly down a carbon-carbon bond, with the front carbon shown as a dot and the back carbon as a circle.
Newman projections are helpful for visualizing the anti, gauche, and eclipsed isomers of this organic compound. This simple unbranched hydrocarbon has one more carbon than propane.
Butane is most stable when it is anti and the bulky methyl groups have this angle to each other. This is the angle in linear compounds.
Newman projections
n-butane (prompt on “C4H10”; do not accept “isobutane”)
180 degrees
The central limit theorem states that as the sample size increases, the distribution of sample means approaches this distribution. For 10 points each:
Name this distribution shaped like a bell. The empirical rule states that events within 2 standard deviations of the mean occur roughly 95% of the time under this distribution.
This score is calculated using the normal distribution, and it represents the number of standard deviations a value is above the mean. It’s also called the standard score.
For a normal distribution, this statistical metric has value 0 or 3, depending on the convention. It is formally defined using the fourth standardized moment, and is often described as measuring the “peakedness” of a distribution.
normal (or Gaussian distribution)
z-score
kurtosis
An outbreak of this infectious disease in the Soho district of London killed over 600 people in 1845. For 10 points each:
Name this disease caused by an anaerobic Gram-negative bacterium of the genus Vibrio. It is spread mainly through contaminated water and causes severe diarrhea and dehydration.
This physician and father of modern epidemiology used a dot map to pinpoint the source of the 1854 Broad Street cholera outbreak to a public street pump.
Cholera toxin increases the production of this activator of protein kinase A. It is degraded by the enzyme phospho-di-esterase.
cholera
John Snow (Editor’s note: minus 10 points to any team that makes a Game of Thrones joke and minus 100 points to anyone who says “You know nothing”; I’m just kidding, but shame–ding ding ding–to anyone who spoils the show)
cAMP (or cyclic AMP; do not accept or prompt on just “AMP”)
This rock is frequently used as an abrasive in beauty salons. For 10 points each:
Name this volcanic rock notable mainly for its porous texture and low density. It is often found near deposits of obsidian.
Pumice is classified as this type of rock since it is formed by the cooling of magma or lava. Other rocks of this type include granite and basalt.
This igneous rock has composition intermediate between felsic and mafic rock, and is the extrusive equivalent of diorite. It also describes a type of magma present at island arcs that is most commonly formed at plate boundaries where oceanic plate is being subducted.
pumice
igneous
andesite (accept andesitic)
Name the following things related to programming paradigms, for 10 points each:
End-user paradigms are merely tools that allow people without programming knowledge to program software. Examples include these formula-calculating, data-storing tools that were used to write this question set and are frequently edited using Microsoft Excel.
A common paradigm is “oriented” around these entities. Typically, these entities are instances of more abstract classes, and Java is a language oriented around these entities.
Functional programming centers on the evaluation of, well, functions. When those functions are “pure,” they display none of these behaviors wherein an outside state or output is modified. When these behaviors are avoided, programs are entirely history-independent.
spreadsheets
objects (do not accept or prompt on synonyms)
side-effects (do not accept or prompt on synonyms)
<em>Desoxyn</em>, a FDA-approved form of this substance, can be used to treat obesity and ADHD. For 10 points each:
Name this drug probably more familiar to you in its recreational "crystal" form, in which it acts as an euphoriant.
Meth molecules have this property. "Pool" and "resolution" methods can be used to separate the enantiomers that can arise from this property, frequently explained as the “handedness” of molecules.
In methamphetamine synthesis, this derivative of succinic acid can be used to crystallize out the unwanted enantiomer. Louis Pasteur’s early work on chirality was based around salts of this compound.
methamphetamine (accept N-methyl-alpha-methylphenethylamine)
chirality (prompt on “having a stereogenic carbon”)
tartaric acid (accept tartarate)
In general, SQL [“sequel”] stores these entities in the CHAR or VARCHAR datatypes. For 10 points each:
Name this basic datatype that stores text. It can be considered as an array of characters.
Perhaps the most common string in all of programming is these two words, often a programmer’s first test of knowledge. In Python, it’s as easy as typing “print [these two words].”
In Javascript, printing “Hello, world” requires “logging” to this browser-based entity. In Chrome, this tool is nicely accessed with “Control-Shift-J.”
string
“Hello, world” (accept exact answer only)
console
This mathematician developed the proof by infinite descent. For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name this mathematician whose “little theorem” states that ato the power of a primepis congruent to amod p.
The Fermat primality test uses the little theorem to determine whether a number is prime. However, these special composite numbers named for an American mathematician also pass the Fermat test for every co­prime base a.
Fermat is probably most famous, though, for a theorem described by this adjective that states that atothe nplus b tothe nequals ctothe nisimpossible for ngreater than two. Andrew Wiles was knighted for proving that theorem.
Pierre de Fermat
Carmichael numbers
Fermat’s Last Theorem
A useful property of this operation is that’s linear and monotonic. For 10 points each:
Name this operation symbolized with a capital E and square brackets, though physics uses angular brackets. The value of this operation for a fair, six-sided dice is 3.5.
The expected value is essentially a weighted form of this value. This measure of the center of a distribution is typically grouped in statistics with the median and the mode.
This inequality named after a Russian bounds the expected value of falling outside of a region within k standard deviations of the mean. It states that “nearly all” values in a distribution are close to the mean.
expected value (or expectation)
mean (or average)
Chebyshev’s inequality
This organ secretes a namesake juice containing the digestive enzymes lipase, amylase, and carboxypeptidase. For 10 points each:
Name this digestive organ found behind the stomach in the abdomen. Its cells in the Islets of Langerhans produce insulin.
Pancreatic juice drains through the pancreatic ducts and the ampulla of Vater into this first section of the small intestine. This section’s name comes from the Latin for twelve.
This peptide is secreted by delta cells in both the duodenum and pancreas. It often goes by the name of growth hormone-inhibiting hormone.
pancreas
duodenum
somatostatin (accept somatotropin-release inhibiting factor/hormone)
The pitch drop experiment demonstrates the high value of this property for pitch. For 10 points each:
Name this property that measures the resistance of a fluid to flow.
This set of differential equations describes viscous flow. In 2014, Terence Tao published a partial solution to the notoriously difficult existence and smoothness problems for these equations.
These non-Newtonian fluids decrease in viscosity when a stress is applied to them. They are the opposite of rheopectic, and ketchup and lava are examples.
viscosity (accept word forms)
Navier-Stokes equations (prompt on partial)
thixotropic fluids (accept word forms)
Answer the following about fertilization, for 10 points each:
The union of sperm and egg creates one of these diploid structures. This cell divides rapidly into blastomeres during an event known as cleavage.
Most of these organelles in the zygote originate from the mother, which is why their associated DNA is always inherited matrilineally. This organelle is known as “the powerhouse of the cell.”
Sperm cells contain this specialized organelle. It is filled with specialized enzymes that break down the zona pellucida during its namesake “reaction.”
zygote
mitochondrion (or mitochondria)
acrosome
Einstein proposed slit and box thought experiments to try and disprove this principle. For 10 points each:
Name this principle that formally states that the product of the standard deviation of position and the standard deviation of momentum must be greater than or equal to h-bar over two.
The Heisenberg uncertainty principle is frequently confused with an effect wherein a person performing this action affects the result obtained. A bias named after this action occurs when people only look for the results they want.
This other limitation on quantum mechanics states that it cannot reproduce the predictions of a hidden-variable theory that is exclusively local. An October 2015 paper received experimental results reinforcing this theorem.
Heisenberg uncertainty principle (accept either or both “Heisenberg” or “uncertainty”)
observation (accept word forms like observe or observer)
Bell’s theorem (accept Bell’s inequality)
In honor of Ocean Bowl, name these things related to the science of the ocean, for 10 points each:
Ocean life is particularly threatened by these toxic metals that accumulate in the food chain. These metals are typically listed as including cadmium, mercury, lead, chromium, and arsenic.
The Coriolis Force leads to the rotation of ocean currents and the formation of these vortices. Major examples of these rotating systems include the ones in the Indian Ocean and the North Atlantic.
The tidal forces of a body lead to this limit which for the Earth is about six million miles. Closer than this limit, satellites disintegrate as they are torn apart by tidal forces.
heavy metals
gyres
Roche limit
Answer the following questions about periodic properties, for 10 points each:
This property tends to decrease down a group and increase left to right across a row. Differences in this property between atoms lead to the polarity of some chemical bonds, and it is measured in Paulings.
Members of this group of elements tend to have the largest atomic radii and smallest ionization energies within their rows. Elements within this group tend to have violent and explosive reactions with water.
The poor shielding ability of electrons in the 4f subshell leads to this phenomenon. This phenomenon’s name comes from the fact that the decrease in atomic radii is greater than expected.
electronegativity (accept word forms; do not accept “electron affinity”)
alkali metals (prompt on “Group I” or “Group 1”; do not accept “alkaline” or “alkaline earth”)
lanthanide contraction (prompt on partial name)
This distribution is the maximum entropy probability distribution of a random variable if it has known finite support. For 10 points:
Name this family of distributions, whose ‘standard’ type has variance one-twelfth and mean one-half. For any random variable X, the inverse CDF transform of X has this distribution.
Under the central limit theorem, the average of N standard uniform random variables should converge to a distribution named after this man. This mathematician is well-known for an apocryphal story where he summed 1 to 100 quickly.
This theorem in conditional probability theory, named for a Briton, relates the probability of A given B to the probability of B given A.
uniform distribution
Carl Friedrich Gauss
Bayes theorem
This division of the autonomic nervous system is primarily involved in the fight-or-flight response. For 10 points each:
Name this system that regulates homeostasis and is activated by adrenaline. Stimulating this system will increase blood flow to skeletal muscles, inhibit digestion, and dilate the pupils, as contrasted with a different system that’s more passive.
This emotion can arise from the fight-or-flight response. Patient S.M. cannot feel this emotion because of irreversible damage to her amygdala.
Fear conditioning can induce this phenomenon linked to memory formation in the amygdala. This phrase refers to the strengthening of synapses in response to high-frequency stimulation.
sympathetic nervous system
fear (accept variants like being scared)
long term potentiation (prompt on just “potentiation” or “LTP”)
A hashing attack can be developed based on this problem. For 10 points each:
Name this problem that considers the probability that two people in a room will have the same one of the title dates. Counterintuitively, a nearly 100% chance is reached at 70 people, far before there are 365 people.
The birthday problem can be explained by this principle. Fundamentally, this principle states if there are more than m items in n less than m containers, then at least one container must have more than one item.
This man formulated the pigeonhole principle. He names some boundary conditions, and his namesake function is discontinuous at every point.
birthday problem
pigeonhole principle
Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet
This meteorological measurement determines the mixing ratio at a given atmospheric pressure. For 10 points each:
Name this temperature to which a parcel of air must be cooled at constant pressure in order to be saturated with water vapor.
For the dew point, this quantity averages about 1.8 degrees Celsius per kilometer of altitude. For air temperature, this quantity comes in “dry adiabatic” and “moist adiabatic” varieties.
High temperature lapse rates along with significant vertical wind shear lead to these violently spinning columns of air associated with funnel clouds. The intensity of these phenomena is measured using the Enhanced Fujita Scale.
dew point temperature
lapse rate
tornadoes
The integral form of this law equates the magnetic flux with the surface integral of the electric field. For 10 points each:
Name this law named after a German scientist that gives the electric flux as the charge over the permittivity of free space. A similarly named law “for magnetism” says that the divergence of the magnetic field is zero.
Gauss’s Law and Gauss’s Law for magnetism are the first two of this set of equations named for a Scottish scientist. The next two laws in these equations are Faraday’s Law and Ampere’s Law.
Maxwell cleaned up Ampere’s law by adding a term for this quantity representing the rate of change of the namesake type of electric field. It is symbolized capital J.
Gauss’s Law
Maxwell equations
displacement current (prompt on just “current”)
Answer the following questions related to polynomial approximation, for 10 points each:
This theorem states that every continuous function on an interval of the real numbers can be locally approximated as closely as desired by a polynomial.
A linear approximation of a smooth function is an underestimate if this quantity for the function is positive. Inflection points have a value of zero for this property of a function, since this property determines a function’s concavity.
In Taylor’s formula for polynomial approximation, the n-th order term has a coefficient given by the reciprocal of this operation applied to n. This operation on a positive integer n gives the product of all the integers from 1 to n.
Stone-Weierstrass theorem (accept Weierstrass approximation theorem)
second derivative (do not prompt or accept “derivative”)
factorial
Length contraction and time dilation are two predictions of this theory. For 10 points each:
Name this theory proposed by Albert Einstein that assumes the speed of light in a vacuum is a universal for all observers.
The theory of special relativity was supported by the outcome of the Michelson-Morley experiment, which “failed” to discover this medium by which it was theorized that light propagated throughout the universe.
In special relativity, this 4-by-4 tensor is diagonal in its matrix representation and has values -1, 1, 1, and 1 under the East-Coast convention. Generally, it can be used to compute the spacetime interval between two points.
special relativity (prompt on “relativity”)
luminiferous aether
metric tensor (accept Minkowski tensor)
This law contains within itself Charles’ Law, Gay-Lussac’s Law, and Avogadro’s Law. For 10 points each:
Name this law that relates several properties of the namesake substance. It’s most frequently stated as “pivnert” or P V equals n R T.
This equation of state is a modification of the ideal gas law. This equation accounts for the nonzero volume of gas molecules and intermolecular forces between them.
Rearranging the parameters of the Van der Waals equation gives this temperature named after the author of The Sceptical Chymist. It describes the temperature at which a real gas behaves most like an ideal gas.
ideal gas law (do not accept or prompt on partial)
Van der Waals equation
Boyle temperature
The richest natural source of this compound is the Kakadu plum, found in Australia. For 10 points each:
Name this compound responsible for scavenging reactive oxygen species. The chemical name of this compound is ascorbic acid.
Perhaps pirates should’ve eaten more Kakadu plums, since they often suffered this disease whose symptoms include bleeding gums, joint pain, and easy bruising. James Lind proved in 1747 that eating citrus fruits could cure this disease.
Vitamin C is also required for the post-translational modification of collagen, which involves the hydroxylation [“hy-drocks-ee-lay-shun”] of this amino acid. This amino acid’s unusual cyclic side chain often disrupts alpha helices and beta sheets.
vitamin C
scurvy (accept Barlow’s disease, Moeller’s disease, or Cheadle’s disease)
proline (do not accept hydroxyproline, lysine, or hydroxylysine)
These materials have band gaps in the 1 to 5 electron-volt range. For 10 points each:
Name these extremely useful materials, examples of which include phosphorous-doped silicon and gallium arsenide. They are named for having resistance halfway between conductors and insulators.
Semiconductors are useful for displaying this effect in which voltage is produced across a conductor in a magnetic field. This effect was vital for showing that current was carried by negative, and not positive, charges.
Semiconductors were crucial to the development of these circuit components. Varieties of these components include MOSFETs and the bipolar junction type.
semiconductors
Hall effect
transistor
The metal d-orbital splitting of compounds with this type of geometry is negative four ninths times the octahedral field splitting. For 10 points each:
Name this type of geometry. VSEPR [“vesper”] theory predicts a bond angle of 109.5 degrees for this geometry, and ammonium, or NH4+ [“en-aytch-four-plus”], has this geometry.
The strength of this allotrope of carbon comes from its tetrahedral bonding in a covalent network. This valuable mineral has the highest hardness of all natural materials.
In contrast to the sp3-hybridization of diamond, fullerenes are sp2-hybridized allotropes of carbon. Because of that structure, fullerenes display a small degree of this characteristic described by Huckel’s rule.
tetrahedral (accept Th or T sub h)
diamond
aromaticity (accept word forms; prompt on “delocalization” and word forms)
This law can be stated as recessional velocity equals the namesake constant times proper distance. For 10 points each:
Give this law named after an American scientist that demonstrates the universe is expanding.
Hubble’s Law is additionally evidence for this event that led to the birth of the universe. It was quickly followed by cosmic inflation and baryogenesis.
Hubble also studied these stars, basing his work on Henrietta Leavitt’s work on the luminosity-period relation of these stars. Because of that relation, these stars are frequently used to measure astronomical distance.
Hubble’s Law
Big Bang
Cepheid variables [“seff-ee-id” variables] (prompt on “variable” or “variable stars”)
Answer the following about the Lotka-Volterra equations, for 10 points each:
The Lotka-Volterra equations model interactions between two populations in which one species is eaten by the other. Give both the term for the species that is eaten and the term for the species that eats it.
The populations of wolves and moose on this island is often used as an example of predator-prey interactions describable by the Lotka-Volterra equations. This island in Lake Superior is home to a namesake national park.
Another important concept in population dynamics is this quantity, often symbolized K. This number describes the maximum population of a species that an environment can support.
predator and prey (prompt on partial)
Isle Royale
carrying capacity
A subset of this class is its “complete” form, when a problem is both in this class and the “hard” type of this class. For 10 points each:
Name this class of problems that can only be solved by a nondeterministic Turing machine in polynomial time. A major problem compares this class “versus” another “easier” class.
A landmark 2002 paper by three Indian scientists showed that determining whether a number has this property is in the class P. Unfortunately, we still don’t know if factorizing an integer into numbers with this property is doable in P, or relatively fast, time.
Proving how hard prime factorization is important, since this method of cryptography assumes it’s very hard. This three-letter encryption method involves the creation of public and private keys.
NP (do not accept or prompt on “P” or “P vs. NP”)
prime (prompt on “not composite”)
RSA algorithm
The Stern-Gerlach experiment demonstrated that this quantity is discretely quantized. For 10 points each:
Name this characteristic quantity of elementary particles. In electrons, this quantity takes on values of positive and negative one-half.
Unlike diamagnetism, which involves paired spins, this type of magnetism arises because of the spin of unpaired electrons. It explains the magnetism of molecular oxygen.
Ferromagnetic materials become paramagnetic above a temperature named for this man. Along with his brother Jacques, this man was the first to demonstrate the existence of piezoelectricity.
spin (accept spin quantum number; prompt on “angular momentum”)
paramagnetism
Pierre Curie
This process is used to isolate aluminum from its ore in the Hall-Heroult industrial process. For 10 points each:
Name this process that uses direct current to drive nonspontaneous redox reactions. This process is used to create hydrogen gas from water, such as in rockets, and for plating objects with metals.
Electrodes of this metal are often used in electrolysis, since this metal is the least reactive metal. As a result, it’s frequently used in catalytic converters and dentistry.
This value is equal to the difference between the experimental voltage required for an electrolytic cell, and the theoretical voltage calculated from half-cell potentials. It is minimized by using noble metal electrodes.
electrolysis
platinum (accept Pt)
overpotential (accept overvoltage)
If these devices are “thin,” an approximation can be made involving the radii of curvature. For 10 points each:
Name these optic devices that allow light to pass through. They are frequently found in microscopes and telescopes.
This property measures how strongly a lens converges or diverges light. A virtual image is created if the observer stands closer than this quantity for a convex lens.
This man invented his own eyepiece made of two convex lenses. He also names a principle along with Fresnel that helps explain the wavefronts in diffraction.
lenses
focal length (or f)
Christiaan Huygens
A highly illegal method of fishing in southeast Asia involves using the sodium salt of this anion. For 10 points each:
Name this anion, which consists of a carbon atom triple bonded to a nitrogen atom.
Sodium cyanide is also commonly used in the mining of this metal, which notably dissolves in aqua regia. This element’s chemical symbol is Au.
This other cyanide-containing compound has idealized formula Fe7(CN)18 [“eff-ee-seven-see-en-eighteen”]. It can be used to treat thallium poisoning, although its most notable industrial use is as a dye.
cyanide (do not accept or prompt on “nitrile”; prompt on “CN-” [“see-en-minus”])
gold
Prussian blue (or Turnbull’s blue; or Berlin blue; or Parisian blue; or ferric ferrocyanide; or ferric hexacyanoferrate; or iron (III) ferrocyanide; or iron (III) hexacyanoferrate (II))
On July 29, 2015, the 10th version of this operating system was released to the public. For 10 points each:
Name this ubiquitous operating system whose 8th version attempted to introduce a touchpad-like interface for the Start screen. This operating system has made a Harvard dropout pretty rich.
This technique removes hardware restrictions on the iPhone OS, allowing the user to install custom software. The equivalent on Android phones is rooting.
This popular open-source Linux distribution was developed by Ian Murdock in the 90s. Ubuntu is derived from this distribution.
Windows NT
jailbreaking
Debian
Lichens are composite symbiotic organisms composed of cyanobacteria and members of this kingdom of organisms. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom of organisms characterized by their unique chitin-containing cell walls. This kingdom includes unicellular organisms like yeasts and molds, and multicellular organisms like mushrooms.
Chytrids [“kit-trids”] were originally classified as protists instead of fungi, since their motile zoospore [“zoh-oh-spore”] phase contain this motile appendage. They’re not cilia, but they are structurally identical to cilia in eukaryotes.
Fungi are responsible for chytridiomychosis [“kit-TRID-ee-oh-my-COS-sus”], a disease that sometimes causes 100% mortality in this class of organisms. Clades within this class of organisms include the orders Apoda, Caudata, and Gymnophiona.
fungi (or Fungi; Ed’s note: “Why was the mushroom always invited to parties? Because he was a fun guy!”; 10 points to anyone who laughs...or not...)
flagellum (or flagella, the plural)
amphibians (or Amphibia)
There are examples of power laws everywhere! Name some things related to such examples, for 10 points each:
Gutenberg and Richter name a power law relating the magnitude and frequency of these phenomena. Richter also names a scale for the energy of these events.
The Stefan-Boltzmann gives a power law for the energy radiated by these idealized entities. The ultraviolet catastrophe describes a paradox in which they apparently radiate infinite energy.
This empirical law describes the tendency of sampled data from different fields to display a power-law distribution for frequency in terms of rank. Its application to linguistics gives the usage frequency of any word as inversely proportional to its frequency rank.
earthquakes
black body
Zipf’s law
Hans Selye’s general adaptation theory explains how this phenomenon leads to alarm, and then eventually exhaustion. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon of a person being taxed by outside influences like a noisy crowd. A “post-traumatic” disorder associated with it often occurs to soldiers.
This personality theory posits that half of all people are competitive and easily stressed, while the other half is laid back and less stressed.
Stress can actually be positive, and when it is significantly so, leads to a person entering this state of immersive focus and concentration. It was theorized by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi [“mee-high-uh chick-sent-muh-high-ee”].
stress
Type A and Type B (prompt on partial; accept in either order)
flow (prompt on answers similar to “being in the zone”; Ed’s note: apologies to the moderator for that last name)
Answer the following questions about the speed of chemical reactions, for 10 points each:
Name these differential equations that relate the speed of chemical reactions. Some common examples include the “first” and “second” order forms.
The rate of this process can be expressed to specifics with a rate law, but a half-life is typically used as a standard. Neutron emission is an example of this process in which the nucleus loses mass or energy.
Chemists exploit this effect to determine reaction mechanisms and transition state structures. It can describe the change in reaction rate when a hydrogen atom of one reactant is replaced by a deuterium atom.
rate law (or rate equation; prompt on partial)
radioactive decay (or radioactivity)
kinetic isotope effect (accept KIE; prompt on partial answers)
The half-life of this element’s 238 isotope is 4.5 billion years, which is approximately the age of the earth. For 10 points each:
Name this actinide element whose 235 isotope can sustain a fission chain reaction. In nature, it is primarily found in the minerals pitchblende and carnotite.
Uranium-238’s decay eventually ends in lead-208, which is exceptionally stable since its atomic mass can be described by this term. Isotopes whose nucleon numbers are described by this term have a higher-than-average nuclear binding energy.
Some nuclear physicists propose that isotopes within this region of the table of nuclides will be relatively stable if they have a magic number of protons or neutrons. Flevorium-298 and ununbium-302 are predicted to be within this region.
uranium
magic numbers
island of stability
In quantum mechanics, the Schrodinger equation is simply an eigenvalue equation for this operator. For 10 points each:
Name this operator that is the generator of time evolution. The form of mechanics of the same name as this operator was developed by an Irish physicist from Lagrangian mechanics.
Applying the bracket named after this man between the time-evolution of any function on phase space and the Hamiltonian gives the time-evolution again and the explicit dependence on time. This Frenchman also names a second-order differential equation stating that “del-squared phi [“fee”] equals f.”
In classical mechanics, the Hamiltonian of a system is equal to the sum of the potential and kinetic types of this scalar. For an isolated system, this quantity is conserved over time, according to the first law of thermodynamics.
Hamiltonian
Siméon Denis Poisson
energy
As they are also leptons, these particles have electron, mu, and tau flavors. For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name these uncharged, extremely small, and notoriously hard to detect particles. The 2015 Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded for discovering these particles have mass, though not much.
Neutrinos are so hard to detect in part because they are not affected by this fundamental force. This fundamental force is extremely powerful but only applies on extremely small scales, and it’s responsible for “holding” the nucleus together.
An early method for detecting neutrinos was the usage of these structures filled with superheated liquid. The creation of these instruments was apocryphally inspired by beer.
neutrinos
stronginteraction (or strongnuclear force)
bubble chamber(prompt on just “chamber”)
These organelles are often coated by SNAREs, and specialized ones include lysosomes, peroxisomes, and vacuoles. For 10 points each:
Name these spherical organelles. They transport membrane­enclosed cargo in the cell and bud off from the endoplasmic reticulum or the Golgi apparatus.
This protein’s triskelion structure forms cage­like lattices that coat newly formed vesicles. Recent studies also indicate that this protein helps to stabilize the kinetochore during mitosis.
Clathrin mediates this process that results in the engulfing of extracellular particles and macromolecules. Variants of this process include pinocytosis and phagocytosis.
vesicles
clathrin
endocytosis
Extant classes within this phylum include Echinoidea, Crinoidea, and Asteroidea. For 10 points each:
Name this class of deuterostomes [“dew-ter-o-stomes”] characterized by their radial symmetry and water vascular systems. Some examples of these organisms, such as sea cucumbers and sea urchins, are considered delicacies in Asian cuisine.
The first known examples of echinoderms appeared during this geologic period. Trilobites, mollusks, and crustaceans also appeared during this geologic period’s namesake “explosion.”
Outbreaks of this coral-eating echinoderm can quickly devastate coral reef habitats, especially since it has few natural predators. The sharp, venomous spines that cover this organism’s upper surface give rise to this organism’s name.
Echinodermata (or echinoderms)
Cambrian period
crown-of-thorns starfish (accept Acanthaster planci; prompt on “starfish”)
The strength of the “oxy” type of these compounds can be approximated using the Pauling­Ricci rules. For 10 points each:
Name these compounds that generally have low pH values. They include “hydrochloric” and “acetic” examples, and litmus paper turns red when it contacts these compounds.
Magic acid is an extremely strong acid that consists of a mixture of fluorosulfuric acid and the pentafluoride of this element. The trioxide of this element is commonly used as a synergist in flame retardants.
Antimony pentafluoride acts as an electron acceptor in magic acid, meaning antimony pentafluoride itself can be considered an acid in the acid­base classification scheme named for this American scientist. This man introduced the dot diagram.
acids
antimony(prompt on “Sb”)
Gilbert Newton Lewis(accept Lewisacids)
Heritable mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes increase an individual’s susceptibility to this disease. For 10 points each:
Name this disease. It can be detected with a mammogram, and the most common treatment is a mastectomy followed by chemotherapy.
Triple-negative breast cancers are difficult to treat since they lack receptors for this steroid hormone that is not estrogen. Falling levels of this sex hormone following the absence of fertilization triggers menstruation.
Drugs that target this enzyme are ineffective in triple-negative breast cancer, since tumors do not depend on estrogen to proliferate. This cytochrome P450 enzyme catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to estradiol.
breast cancer (prompt on “cancer”)
progesterone
aromatase (accept estrogen synthetase, estrongen synthase, or CYP19A1)
For a right triangle, this point lies at the midpoint of the hypotenuse. For 10 points each:
Give the name for this point that is equidistant from all three of a triangle’s vertices. According to the extended law of sines, twice the distance from this point to any vertex of a triangle is the length of a side divided by the sine of the opposite angle.
The circumradius of a regular polygon can be found by dividing the length of this segment by the cosine of pi over n radians where n is the number of sides. It connects the center of a regular polygon with the midpoint of any side.
The area of a regular polygon is one-half the length of the apothem times this quantity, which for an n-sided regular polygon is the product of n and the side length.
circumcenter
apothem
perimeter
In computer science, attempts to generate numbers of this type usually use environmental factors like static or load times. For 10 points each:
Name this adjective describing systems with some lack of predictability. Stochastic processes have this property.
This type of stochastic process is memoryless. They are usually simulated by multiplying transition matrices, and Monte Carlo algorithms using these stochastic processes can be used to sample from difficult probability distributions.
Markov chain-Monte Carlo algorithms can be used to sample from the probability distribution over states of this model. This model represents ferromagnetism using discrete spins in a lattice, and in dimensions greater than 1, it observes a phase transition.
random
Markov chain
Ising model
These objects have an event horizon and give off Hawking radiation. For 10 points each:
Name these massive astrophysical objects, which have central singularities and can be formed by the core-collapse supernova of a massive star. Their name is a consequence of their immense gravity.
Non-rotating black holes that possess a nonzero value for this property are described via the Reissner-Nordstrom metric. According to the no-hair theorem, black holes possess only mass, angular momentum, and this fundamental property.
Due to frame-dragging effects, objects within this ellipsoid region outside the event-horizon of rotating black holes cannot be stationary with respect to the rest of the universe. Penrose proposed a process that could be used to extract energy from a black hole using this region.
black holes
charge (accept Q)
ergosphere
The first synthetic example of these macromolecules was synthesized in 1907 and was called bakelite. For 10 points each:
Name these large molecules that consist of long repeated chains of smaller molecules. They can be synthesized using the “step-growth” or “chain-growth” methods.
The strength and rigidity of polymers like Kevlar and nylon come from these electrostatic interactions. This subset of dipole-dipole interactions is also responsible for the broad O-H absorption of alcohols and phenols in IR spectroscopy.
This group of catalysts is used in the polymerization of alpha-olefins like polyethylene and polypropylene. Typical examples of these catalysts consist of organoaluminum compounds with titanium chloride.
polymer
hydrogen bonds
Ziegler-Natta catalysts
The McGill Questionnaire, FLACC scale, and the Wong-Baker face scale all attempt to quantify this sensation. For 10 points each:
Name this uncomfortable or distressing sensation caused by intense or damaging stimuli. This sensation can be classified as nociceptive, neuropathic, or psychogenic.
This disease is characterized by chronic muscle pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbance, and the ACR 1990 criteria were formerly used to diagnose individuals with this disease. It’s not chronic fatigue syndrome, but there is no scientific consensus for the cause of this disease.
This widely-used class of analgesics is often used to alleviate mild to moderate pain in patients, since it is non-addictive. They work by inhibiting cyclooxygenase and increase the likelihood of peptic ulcer disease.
pain
fibromyalgia
NSAIDs (accept non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on “aspirin,” “acetylsalicylic acid,” “ibuprofen,” or “naproxen” but not “acetaminophen”)
Let’s go fossil hunting in Harvard Yard, for 10 points each:
Deep in the Boston permafrost, you find a leg bone belonging to one of these ancestors of modern elephants. A 2015 experiment successfully copied genes from this organism into DNA of an Asian elephant.
Later, you find a Velociraptor skeleton preserved in this substance, “pits” of which can be found at La Brea.
The administration quickly squashes your plan to establish Jurassic Yard, so you keep looking and find one of these extinct molluscs. These chambered cephalopods are frequently used as index fossils.
woolly mammoth
tar
ammonites (accept Ammonoidea)
The Tyndall effect is a variety of this process. For 10 points each:
Name this physical process in which radiation is diverted upon interacting with a particle. Based on the relative size of the radiation wavelength and the particle, it might be Rayleigh, Mie, or geometric.
Rayleigh scattering is typically of this type, meaning the kinetic energy of the particle is conserved. The same occurs in macroscopic collisions of this type, like with billiard balls.
This man names a type of spectroscopy used to analyze symmetric vibrational modes of nonpolar groups that are accompanied by a change in polarizability. That spectroscopy is based on his namesake type of inelastic scattering.
scattering (accept word forms)
elastic
Sir C(handrasekhara) V(enkata) Raman
The Cholodny–Went model explains this phenomenon in monocots. For 10 points each:
Name this term that describes an organism’s directional movement in response to an external stimulus. Its “photo” variety occurs when plants grow towards the sun or another light source.
This family of plant hormones participates in phototropism by directing uneven cell elongation. Its most important member is indole-3-acetic acid, and synthetic ones are used as herbicides.
According to this model, auxins induce cell elongation by indirectly lowering the pH of the cell wall. pH-sensitive expansins then loosen the cellulose microfibrils in the cell wall to accommodate cellular growth.
tropism (accept specific variants)
auxins
acid growth hypothesis
In the preparatory thin layer type of this technique, one must use a spotter to transfer an entire sample to a silica-coated plate of glass, one drop at a time. For 10 points each:
Name this lab procedure used to separate mixtures. The retention factor Rf [“R”-“F”] compares the distances moved by the substance and the solvent in this process.
Compounds that have this property will move slower on a thin layer plate than compounds lacking it. The degree to which a molecule has this property is measured in Debyes [“DEB-yays”].
How far a substance travels on the plate is often visualized using this type of electromagnetic radiation, which is more energetic than the shortest wavelength of visible light, thus giving this type of radiation its name.
chromatography
polarity (accept word forms; prompt on “dipole” or “dipole moment”)
ultraviolet light
This process is governed by Fick’s laws. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which occurs via Brownian motion. During this process, particles move from areas of high concentration to low concentration, and effusion is a specific type of this process.
Brownian motion is an important part of statistical mechanics, a field pioneered by this Austrian scientist. His namesake constant is equal to the gas constant divided by Avogadro’s number.
The Boltzmann distribution gives the probability of a particle being in a certain state as the exponential of that state’s energy divided by Boltzmann’s constant times temperature, all divided by this quantity. It is equal to the sum of all the Boltzmann factors of a system.
diffusion (accept word forms)
Ludwig Eduard Boltzmann
canonical partition function (prompt on “Q;” prompt on “Z”)
The theory of punctuated equilibrium states that this process occurs in rapid bursts followed by long periods of stasis. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which two populations of an organism become unable to interbreed, and instead form a new taxon. Darwin’s most famous work proposed that natural selection is the basis of this process.
This form of speciation is the result of geographic isolation, since genetic drift and different selection pressures lead to the accumulation of differences that make interbreeding no longer possible. One consequence of this form of speciation is adaptive radiation.
This phenomenon occurs when a chain of populations wrap around a geographic barrier, and there is only one location where two neighboring populations cannot interbreed. Known examples of this phenomenon include the Larus gulls and the greenish warbler.
speciation
allopatric (accept peripatric but not “parapatric”)
ring species (or Rassenkreis)
The heaviest member of this family of elements is astatine. For 10 points each:
Name this group of elements characterized by their high reactivity, a result of their seven valence electrons. This group also includes bromine, the only nonmetal that is liquid at room temperature.
Fluorinated glucose is used in this imaging technique, which visualizes the metabolic activity of tissues. This three-dimensional imaging technique is often performed concurrently with CT scans.
This English chemist is credited with the discovery of both chlorine and iodine. In addition to his work on discovering new elements, he also invented a safety lamp for coal miners.
halogens (prompt on “Group VII” or “Group 17”)
positron emission tomography (or PET scans)
Humphry Davy
Name these applications related to a certain form of radiation, for 10 points each:
First, name this persistent entity that has a temperature of about 2.7 Kelvin. It was accidentally discovered at Bell Labs after researchers believed pigeon droppings had been tainting telescope readings.
Microwaves can be used in these devices that send out waves and measure the time the waves take to bounce back. Jamming can incidentally or purposefully interfere with these devices.
Microwaves were the original form of radiation used in these devices that rely on stimulated emission. The hydrogen form of this device is used in atomic clocks.
cosmic microwave background radiation (or CMBR)
radar (or radio detection and ranging)
maser (or microwave amplification of stimulated emission of radiation; or “molecular” in place of “microwave”; do NOT accept or prompt on “laser”)
This statement can be generalized to Hölder’s inequality. For 10 points each:
Name this doubly eponymous statement that holds that the magnitude of the dot product of two vectors is no greater than the product of their lengths.
The Cauchy-Schwarz inequality can be used to derive an inequality named for this geometric figure. “Solving” this geometric figure may require use of the law of sines or cosines.
The triangle inequality is one of the axioms used to define this type of mathematical structure, which formalizes the notion of distance.
Cauchy-Schwarz inequality
triangle
metric space (prompt on “metric”)
The most famous examples of these enzymes include HindIII and EcoRI. For 10 points each:
Name this class of proteins that cleave DNA at specific sequences. The 1978 Nobel Prize in Physiology was awarded to Hamilton, Arber, and Nathans for discovering them.
In RFLP analysis, DNA is fragmented with restriction enzymes and organized by size using this technique. This technique can be carried out in agarose or polyacrylamide.
While restriction enzymes can recognize only one sequence, this system can recognize multiple sequences, depending on its guide RNA. This system is part of the prokaryotic immune system, and can be used in selective gene editing.
restriction enzymes
gel electrophoresis (prompt on just “electrophoresis”)
CRISPR/Cas system (prompt on just “CRISPR” or “Cas”)
Answer the following about vegetation in different biomes. For 10 points each:
Cushion plants grow low to the ground and grow deep roots to adapt to the harsh conditions of this biome characterized by a layer of permafrost that hinders plant growth. This biome occurs in alpine, arctic, and antarctic subtypes.
To the south of the arctic tundra is the taiga of which the most common vegetation is this type of tree. These cone-bearing trees are distinguished by their conical shape and include the likes of spruce and fir.
Plants in this biome include wide-leafed evergreens to prevent water loss and many have adapted to fire protection. This biome mostly occurs in mid-latitude coastal regions and includes fynbos of South Africa and mattoral of North America.
tundra
conifers or coniferous
chaparral &lt;SY Biology&gt;
According to the third law of thermodynamics, entropy is zero at this condition, and Bose–Einstein condensates form at points near this condition. For 10 points each:
Name this theoretical lowest-possible temperature that is approximately negative 273 degrees Celsius and exactly zero kelvins.
A Bose–Einstein condensation helps explain of this property of helium-4. Substances with this property have no resistance to flow.
The first Bose–Einstein condensate was created with rubidium-87 atoms using this process, in which an optical beam uses doppler shift to lower the temperature of an atom.
absolute zero
superfluidity
laser cooling &lt;SY Physics&gt;
The law of mass action predicts the behavior of solutions in the dynamic variety of this state. For 10 points each:
Identify this state which exists when the forward and reverse reactions proceed at the same rate. The natural logarithm of its namesake constant is related to the change in Gibbs free energy.
This principle states that any change to a system in equilibrium causes the equilibrium position to shift to counteract the change.
This quantity, Q sub r, is a function of the activities of the chemical species involved in a reaction. At equilibrium, it is equal to the equilibrium constant.
chemical equilibrium
Le Chatelier’s principle
reaction quotient &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
This experiment tested the hypothesis of Oparin and Haldane that the Earth’s atmosphere was a highly-reducing environment beneficial to the synthesis of simple organic molecules. For 10 points each:
Identify this experiment that simulated the “primitive soup” of early Earth’s atmosphere, yielding amino acids found in organisms today.
Organic compounds are also hypothesized to form in these areas on the seafloor in which hot water and minerals flow from the Earth’s interior. These areas are typically found near volcanic sites and mid-ocean ridges.
Since no sunlight reaches the hydrothermal vents, the local life often has this disorder, in which there is a lack of pigment in the skin.
Miller–Urey experiment
hydrothermal vents
albinism [or albinos] &lt;SY Biology&gt;
Laplace developed a partial differential equation to model these events. For 10 points each:
Name these occurrences in which the sea level rises and falls due to the gravitational forces of both the Sun and the Moon.
When the Sun and the Moon are perpendicular to each other as seen from the Earth, the solar tidal force and lunar tidal force partially cancel, resulting in this kind of tide.
This body of water between Nova Scotia and New Brunswick has the highest tidal range of any body of water, frequently exceeding 50 feet. Because of this, the Hopewell Rocks formation on its shore is submerged twice a day.
tides
neap tide [do not accept “low tide”]
Bay of Fundy &lt;SR Earth Science&gt;
Corundum is the crystallized form of this metal’s oxide, which is a common catalyst in the Claus process. For 10 points each:
Name this most abundant element in the Earth’s crust. This malleable, light, corrosion-resistant metal is used extensively in manufacturing.
Aluminum, in the mineral forms of gibbsite, boehmite, and diaspore, joins together to form this ore, the most common for which aluminum can be found.
The first step to extracting from its ore is through this process, which refines the bauxite to produce the aluminum oxide. This process is often followed by the Hall–Heroult process.
aluminum [or Al]
bauxite
Bayer process &lt;SY Chemistry&gt;
These devices convert high voltages through a transformer to power a cavity magnetron. For 10 points each:
Name these devices that emit electromagnetic waves at 2.4 gigahertz to excite polar molecules like water.
The stove is another kitchen appliance that heats your food. Gas stove and electric stovetops use this type of heating in which heat is transferred through touching objects.
Blenders use different forces to rip apart your food. In addition to direct contact with blades and shear fluid forces, food can be eviscerated by forces of this process when bubbles collapse and send out shockwaves.
microwave ovens
thermal conduction
cavitation [or cavitation inception] &lt;SY Physics&gt;
DiGeorge syndrome, in which a small piece of chromosome 22 is deleted, can affect this organ. For 10 points each:
Name this organ consisting of two identical lobes that is located behind the sternum. It is largest in early adolescence, and begins to atrophy after puberty.
The thymus produces these cells, which play a major role in the cell-mediated immune response. People with AIDS have a very low amount of these cells.
Patients with this disease have an enlarged thymus and may need to have it removed. In this disease, acetylcholine receptors are blocked, leading to muscle weakness.
thymus
T cells
myasthenia gravis &lt;SR Biology&gt;
This chemist was inspired by Benjamin Franklin to research and discover methane. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian scientist known for his namesake “pile.”
Volta names a type of electrochemical cell contrasted with one named for this other Italian scientist. He argued with Volta over whether “animal electricity” was driven by bodily metals or physical interaction.
Galvani discovered the role of electricity in animal body systems while experimenting with the legs of one of these animals. The poison dart variety of these animals is often used to illustrate warning coloration.
Alessandro Volta
Luigi Galvani
frog &lt;AP Chemistry&gt;
Newton discovered the law describing this force, which can prove Kepler’s laws of planetary motion. For 10 points each:
Name this force that causes objects on Earth to accelerate at 9.8 meters per second-squared when falling.
In Newton’s Law of Universal Gravitation, the force of gravity is proportional to the product of the masses and this power of the distance. This relationship also dictates sound propagation and Coulomb’s force.
In this experiment from the end of the 18th century, a British scientist used a torsion balance to find big G, the proportionality constant in the Law of Universal Gravitation.
gravity [or universal gravitation]
inverse square [or descriptions like “one over the square of the distance” or “negative 2 power”]
Cavendish experiment &lt;SY Physics&gt;
It is frequently used in inferential statistics, and is most often used to carry out the Pearson test. For 10 points each:
Name this right-skewed statistical distribution. In the Pearson test, the test statistic equals the sum of the squared difference of observed and expected values, divided by the variance.
For a Pearson test, this parameter, symbolized nu, is equal to the number of classes of objects minus one. In mechanics, this term describes the number of parameters that define a system’s configuration.
In addition to the goodness of fit test, the chi-squared distribution can test for this property. If two events have this property, then the occurrence of one event does not affect the probability of the other event occurring.
chi-squared distribution
degrees of freedom
independence [or word forms like independent] &lt;SR Math&gt;
Answer the following about electromagnetism. For 10 points each:
The flux of the namesake field is zero through any closed surface according to this theorem. It can be interpreted to mean that magnetic monopoles do not exist.
The curl of this quantity, symbolized A, equals the magnetic field. It is defined to be consistent with Ampere’s law, and can be expressed in terms of current or current density. If continuous and well-defined everywhere, it guarantees the non-existence of magnetic monopoles.
This law states that the negative time derivative of the magnetic flux induces an electromotive force, where the negative sign is explained by Lenz’s law. Generators and transformers operate based on this law.
Gauss’s law for magnetism [prompt on “Gauss’s law”]
magnetic vector potential
Faraday’s law of induction &lt;SR Physics&gt;
This idea was first proposed by Abraham Ortelius in 1596. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which was later explained in greater detail by Alfred Wegener. It was largely rejected during Wegener’s life (and by Jordan Brownstein) and has been superseded by the theory of plate tectonics.
This process occurs due to convection currents in the asthenosphere. This process can be seen prominently at the Afar Triple Junction in East Africa.
Evidence for continental drift includes the fact that some fossils are found in both South America and Africa, which were once part of this large southern landmass.
continental drift
seafloor spreading
Gondwana [or Gondwanaland] &lt;SR Earth Science&gt;
Contrary to popular belief, this phenomenon does not cause toilets in the Southern Hemisphere to drain in the opposite direction. For 10 points each:
Name this force that causes moving objects to be deflected when viewed in a rotating reference frame.
This dimensionless number gives the ratio of inertial to Coriolis forces. A small value for this number means a system is highly influenced by Coriolis forces.
In a rotating frame, these equations gain terms for the Coriolis and centrifugal forces. It has not been proven that solutions for these equations always exist and are smooth.
Coriolis force
Rossby number [or Kibel number]
Navier–Stokes equations &lt;SR Physics&gt;
The Encke Gap divides this planet’s rings. For 10 points each:
Name this gas giant, the second most massive planet in the Solar System after Jupiter.
This sixth largest moon of Saturn is covered in ice, and it may have liquid water below its surface. That ice gives this moon a very high albedo, making it the most reflective body in the Solar System.
This spacecraft, launched in 1997, was the first to orbit Saturn and collect data on Enceladus. One part of this spacecraft landed on Titan in 2005.
Saturn
Enceladus
Cassini–Huygens &lt;SR Astronomy&gt;
This measure for any distribution is also the expected value of that distribution, and it comes in a population and sample types. For 10 points each:
Name this measure whose arithmetic type takes the sum of a set of values divided by the number of values in the set.
Several sample means from the same population approach this distribution by the central limit theorem. The 68–95–99.7 rule for this distribution states what percent of values lie within the first three standard deviations.
It is often difficult to find the true population mean for a variable, so this method of estimation finds upper and lower bounds. For a normal population, this is the sample mean plus or minus the z-critical value multiplied by the standard deviation.
mean [accept arithmetic mean or average]
normal distribution
confidence interval &lt;SY Math&gt;
Name some things about an important metabolic pathway. For 10 points each:
In this pathway, a sugar is converted to pyruvate. Two molecules of NADH and two molecules of ATP are produced in this pathway.
This process occurs after glycolysis in anaerobic environments. In it, NADH is oxidized back to NAD plus.
This compound is produced in one type of fermentation. During strenuous exercise, this compound builds up faster than it can be removed, causing cramps.
glycolysis
fermentation
lactic acid &lt;SR Biology&gt;
The most common types of this procedure are acid-base and redox. For 10 points each:
Name this procedure used to determine the unknown concentration of a substance. Burettes and Erlenmeyer flasks are common tools used in this procedure, which produces a namesake curve.
On a titration curve, these points occur when all of the solution is neutralized by the titrant, and the curve changes concavity. A small change in volume of the titrant near these points results in a large change in pH.
When determining the concentration of metal ions in a solution, this compound is used as the titrant. It is a chelating agent with six lone pairs of electrons, making it a hexadentate ligand.
titration
equivalence point
EDTA [or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid] &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
This compound was first isolated by Michael Faraday, and can be synthesized from toluene using a platinum oxide catalyst. For 10 points each:
Name this compound with formula C6H6. It is an important component of gasoline, and it is used as an intermediate for other industrial chemicals, including polystyrene, a common plastic.
Benzene is the simplest hydrocarbon with this property. Compounds with this property are highly stable due to their delocalized electrons and ring arrangements.
This rule, named after a German chemist, is one criterion that determines whether a compound will be aromatic. It states that the number of delocalized pi electrons must be 4n + 2, where n is a whole number.
benzene
aromaticity [accept word forms]
Hückel’s rule &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
Documents created using this language are by default typeset in Metafont. For 10 points each:
Name this word processing language developed by Leslie Lamport. It is often used in academic settings that require the display of complex mathematical formulas.
This Stanford computer scientist designed TeX, the basis of LaTeX. He also wrote the book The Art of Computer Programming.
Along with Vaughan Pratt, Knuth developed an algorithm that accomplishes this task on a string. The “binary” and “breadth-first” algorithms are other methods of doing this, which engines like Google and Bing accomplish.
LaTeX [or Lamport TeX; do not accept “TeX”]
Donald Knuth
searching [accept traversal or lookup] &lt;AP Computer Science&gt;
Answer the following about a paradox described in several papers by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen. For 10 points each:
Einstein proposed a thought experiment with a box that violated this principle since both the time and energy of a photon could be known. This principle implies that momentum and position cannot be known simultaneously.
The EPR paradox ends up describing this occurrence, which suggests that pairs of particles can interact in such a way that their quantum states are not independent of each other. Einstein called this “spooky action at a distance.”
This result showed that local hidden variable theories suggested in the EPR paradox are incompatible with quantum mechanics.
Heisenberg uncertainty principle
quantum entanglement
Bell’s inequality [or Bell’s theorem] &lt;SY Physics&gt;
Sufferers of this disease, caused by a mutation of the HEXA gene, usually die before the age of four. For 10 points each:
Name this disease, which occurs when gangliosides accumulate in the brain’s nerve cells, causing them to die. It is usually seen in infants, although it can occur rarely in adults.
Four percent of this ethnoreligious group carry the mutation for Tay–Sachs disease. It has been suggested that carrying one copy of the mutation may have been beneficial to explain the prevalence of the disease in this group.
In patients with Tay–Sachs, the enzyme hexosaminidase A, found in these organelles, does not work properly. These organelles act as the waste disposal system of the cell, breaking down macromolecules and cellular debris.
Tay–Sachs disease
Ashkenazi Jews [or Ashkenazim; prompt on “Jews”]
lysosomes &lt;SR Biology&gt;
The beta-lactam ring of penicillin inhibits the synthesis of this compound in bacteria. For 10 points each:
Name this compound that composes the cell walls of bacteria. The first step to identify bacteria is often the Gram stain, which tests for the presence of this compound.
Another method for distinguishing bacteria is by shape. This is the shape of a coccus, unlike the rod-shaped bacillus.
This disease is caused by the gram-negative spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. This disease can cause a large ring-shaped rash and is spread by tick bites.
peptidoglycan
round [or spherical]
Lyme disease &lt;SY Biology&gt;
This region is divided into sections based on seismic velocity. For 10 points each:
Name this layer of the earth that lies between the crust and the outer core. It is composed mostly of magnesium- and silicon-containing minerals, such as peridotite.
The boundary between the crust and the mantle has this name, after the Croatian seismologist who discovered it. P and S waves travelling through this area are refracted.
This region is the upper part of the mantle, upon which tectonic plates move. Seismic waves slow down near this region in the low velocity zone.
mantle
Mohorovičić discontinuity
asthenosphere &lt;SR Earth Science&gt;
When applied to a spinning object, this quantity causes precession. For 10 points each:
Name this physical quantity, the cross product of the force and displacement vectors. It is the time derivative of angular momentum.
This quantity is the integral of the torque with respect to the angular displacement. A principle partly named for this quantity states that it is equal to the change in kinetic energy.
This quantity determines how much torque an object will experience in a magnetic field. For a solenoid, it is equal to the number of turns times the current times the area.
torque [or moment for the engineers]
work
magnetic dipole moment &lt;SR Physics&gt;
This element’s sulfate is used to treat pre-eclampsia, and is usually known as Epsom salt. For 10 points each:
Name this alkaline earth metal with atomic number 12. It is highly flammable, producing an intense white light, and it is commonly used in laxatives.
Reacting an alkyl halide with magnesium forms this compound named after a French chemist. Two of them are required to add to an ester.
Grignard reagents act as this type of compound, donating electrons to form a bond. They are important in a namesake substitution reaction that can be first order or second order.
magnesium [or Mg]
Grignard reagent
nucleophiles &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
The unit type of these in three-dimensional space are denoted <em>i</em>, <em>j</em>, and <em>k</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs, which have both a magnitude and a direction. These objects are orthogonal if their dot product is zero.
The vectors of a basis have this property, in that they cannot be written as a linear combination of any other vectors in the space. A set of vectors has this property if the determinant of the matrix formed by the vectors is nonzero.
To form an orthonormal basis, one can use this process. It is performed by subtracting the projections of the basis vectors onto each other from the original vectors and dividing by the magnitude.
vectors
linear independence [or word forms]
Gram–Schmidt process &lt;SR Math&gt;
The McLafferty rearrangement is a reaction in this laboratory technique that includes collision-induced dissociation and electron-capture dissociation fragmentation methods. For 10 points each:
Name this technique that identifies the relative abundance of molecules by measuring mass-to-charge ratio.
MALDI is one method of performing this process to prepare biomolecules for mass spectrometry. This process gives a molecule either a positive or negative charge.
This ionization method uses a high voltage to turn a liquid into an aerosol.
mass spectrometry [or MS]
ionization
electrospray ionization [or ESI] &lt;SY Chemistry&gt;
This structure’s Purkinje cells use GABA as their neurotransmitters and form a synapse with granule cells. For 10 points each:
Name this part of the brain that controls motor skills and balance, located below the cerebrum.
Purkinje cells transmit input from the inferior olivary nucleus to the medulla oblongata via the climbing and mossy fibers made of bundles of these cells. These long, thin, components extend from the nucleus of a neuron to transmit signals to other cells.
Purkinje cell dysfunction can be caused by malfunction in the sodium-potassium pump, which may lead to the cerebellar type of this condition. This term describes abnormal and uncoordinated movements.
cerebellum
axons
ataxia &lt;SY Biology&gt;
This type of force on a rotating cylinder is named for Kutta–Joukowski, while Prandtl names a theory that predicts the distribution of this force on a line of a three-dimensional object based on shape. For 10 points each:
Name this force that acts normal to the direction the motion of the body. This force acts upward on the wing of an airplane.
Along with Newton’s laws, this principle states that an increase in flow leads to a decrease in pressure. It is used to explain the lift on an airplane’s wing.
Lift on a spinning spherical object is explained by this effect. This effect is what causes a rotor ship to move and a spinning ball to curve.
lift
Bernoulli’s principle
Magnus effect &lt;SY Physics&gt;
Transformations in this structure are described by the Poincaré group. For 10 points each:
Identify this four-dimensional manifold. Events in this structure are depicted as world lines, and light cones can be used to understand causality in it.
Minkowski space is used as the setting for this theory, formulated by Albert Einstein in 1905. It is based on the fact that the speed of light is invariant in all reference frames.
One consequence of special relativity is this effect. The twin paradox, which is not really a paradox, can be used to understand this effect, in which one of a set of twins goes into space travelling close to the speed of light and returns to see that the other twin has aged more.
Minkowski spacetime
special relativity [or SR; prompt on “relativity”; do not accept “general relativity”]
time dilation &lt;SR Physics&gt;
He won the 1903 Nobel Prize for his theory of electrolytic dissociation. For 10 points each:
Name this Swedish chemist. He is probably better known for his acid-base theory, in which acids are defined as substances that dissociate to produce hydrogen ions in water, while bases produce hydroxide ions.
The reaction of an acid and a base is this type. This reaction results in water and a salt being formed, and is exemplified by the use of antacids to treat indigestion.
The dissolution of an Arrhenius acid in water forms this ion, with formula H3O plus. The presence of these ions relative to hydroxide ions determines the pH of a substance.
Svante Arrhenius
neutralization reaction
hydronium ion &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
Members of this phylum are divided into the Cestoda, Trematoda, and Monogenea classes. For 10 points each:
Name this phylum of acoelomate, mostly parasitic organisms. It includes flukes and planarians, and one member of this phylum can cause schistosomiasis.
You are perhaps more familiar with this member of the Platyhelminthes, which can infest the digestive tract after consuming undercooked meat or fish. Occasionally, they can migrate to the brain, causing seizures.
Flatworms are among the many classes of animals that possess this property, along with crustaceans and many insects. Echinoderms notably possess this property only in the larval stage.
Platyhelminthes [accept flatworms]
tapeworms
bilateral symmetry [prompt on “symmetry”; do not accept “radial symmetry”] &lt;SR Biology&gt;
Adaptive radiation is caused by one form of this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this biological phenomenon that can be allopatric or sympatric. This phenomenon causes splits in genetic lineages.
One possible cause of speciation is this phenomenon, the change in allele frequency due to random outside events. Bottlenecks are a form of this phenomenon.
This English co-founder of population genetics developed the “sexy son” hypothesis and explained the “runaway” of exaggerated male body ornamentation. Along with Wright, he names a model of genetic drift.
speciation
genetic drift
Ronald Fischer &lt;SY Biology&gt;
These objects were first studied in depth by Apollonius of Perga, and Omar Khayyam used them to solve equations. For 10 points each:
Name these objects formed by intersecting a plane with the namesake shape. They include hyperbolas, parabolas, ellipses, and circles.
This line, which passes through the axis of symmetry, is important in defining conic sections. For a curve to be a conic section, the distance from the focus to the curve must equal the distance from the curve to this line.
This measure, which is zero for a circle and one for a parabola, is defined for an ellipse as the square root of the quantity one minus the square of the semi-minor axis divided by the square of the semi-major axis.
conic sections
directrix
eccentricity &lt;SR Math&gt;
This property was first proposed by Wolfgang Pauli, and unlike a related quantity, can have half integer values. For 10 points each:
Name this quantum mechanical property. Fermions have half-integer values of this property, while bosons have integer values. Elementary particles can have a magnetic dipole moment based on this property.
Spin is one type of this quantity, and is contrasted with the orbital type of this quantity. In classical physics, this quantity, symbolized L, is given by the cross product of the position and linear momentum operators.
Spin was discovered in this experiment, in which silver atoms were passed through a magnetic field onto a screen. The atoms were deflected by a specific amount, and hit the screen only at the top and bottom, not in the middle as was expected.
spin
angular momentum
Stern–Gerlach experiment &lt;SR Physics&gt;
This element exists as a pale yellow diatomic gas at standard temperature and pressure. For 10 points each:
Name this lightest halogen. The addition of this element to public water supplies has been shown to decrease the incidence of tooth decay.
Fluorine has the highest value for this property on the Pauling scale, while neon has the highest value for it on the Allen scale.
Compounds of fluorine and these two other elements were once commonly used in refrigerators, but are being phased out since they cause ozone depletion. DuPont uses these two elements in the manufacture of Freon.
fluorine
electronegativity
carbon and chlorine &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
It can be caused by hepatitis or other damage to the liver. For 10 points each:
Name this medical condition. A sign of decreased liver function, it causes the skin to turn yellow.
This pathology of the liver which can present with jaundice is often seen in alcoholics. It causes scar tissue to build up, which leads to high blood pressure in the hepatic portal vein.
The yellow color seen in jaundice is caused by an excess of this molecule, which is created when red blood cells are broken down.
jaundice
cirrhosis
bilirubin [accept haematoidin] &lt;SR Biology&gt;
Theoretically, this sort of interval is “perfect” if the ratio between the frequency of the two notes is 3 to 2. For 10 points each:
Name this musical interval which separates the notes C and G.
The only more stable musical interval than the perfect fifth is this other musical interval, which consists of notes that are eight spaces apart, like two different Cs.
Give your answer in terms of a ratio, such as “five to seven.” What is the ratio between the frequency of a given note C and another C that is two octaves higher?
perfect fifth
perfect octave
four to one [or one to four; accept clear equivalents] &lt;WA Music&gt;
It was discovered in 1995 at the Collider Detector at Fermilab and D0 experiments. For 10 points each:
Name this heaviest known elementary particle. A gluon is created in the production of this particle, which involves colliding it with its antiparticle.
The top quark is a part of this theory which describes the 12 fermions and gauge bosons which carry electromagnetic, strong, and weak forces.
This lepton with mass 207 times greater than that of the electron is also part of the Standard Model. It has been used to measure the anomalous magnetic dipole moment.
top quark
Standard Model
muon &lt;SR Physics&gt;
In the developing world, this element is often added to salt. For 10 points each:
Name this element with atomic number 53. A deficiency of this element can result in thyroid problems, as it is needed to synthesize T3 and T4.
Lugol’s iodine is a solution that turns a dark blue or black color in the presence of these large carbohydrates.
A compound containing iodine and this element is used to seed clouds, a use discovered by Kurt Vonnegut’s brother. Excess exposure to this element can cause your skin to turn blue.
iodine [or I]
starches
silver [or Ag] &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
This operation applied to the exponential function returns itself. For 10 points each:
Name this operation, which measures the rate of change of a function.
For a function to be differentiable at a point, it must also possess this property. For this property to hold, the limit of a function as it approaches some point must equal the value of the function at that point.
This matrix contains the first order partial derivatives of a vector-valued function. Its determinant is used to change variables when moving between coordinate systems.
differentiation [or derivative]
continuity [accept word forms like continuous]
Jacobian matrix &lt;SR Math&gt;
Its static type is usually greater than its kinetic type. For 10 points each:
Name this force that opposes the motion of an object. It can cause electric charge to accumulate in the triboelectric effect.
The magnitude of the frictional force is proportional to this other force that points in its namesake direction. This force is greater than your weight in an elevator going up, making you feel heavier.
The velocity of an object traveling along one of these trajectories in the absence of friction is dependent only on the radius and the angle of incline. Airplanes often use these to change direction.
friction
normal force
banked curve [or banked turn] &lt;SR Physics&gt;
Dry ice often goes through one of these processes called sublimation, and the heats of formation and vaporization give the amount of energy for one gram of a substance to undergo these processes. For 10 points each:
Name these processes in which a substance goes from one state of matter to another as a result of a heat transfer.
On a phase diagram, this point is where the phase transition lines meet. Name this point where a solid, liquid and gas coexist in equilibrium.
The slope of a phase transition can be given by this equation that also lets you find the vapor pressure of liquids at different temperatures.
phase transitions
triple point
Clausius–Clapeyron relation &lt;SY Chemistry&gt;
Answer some questions about matrices. For 10 points each:
This matrix is composed of ones along the main diagonal and zeros everywhere else.
Performing this operation with a matrix and its inverse gives the identity matrix. The number of rows in the first matrix must equal the number of columns of the second matrix.
These numbers, symbolized lambda, are found by solving the characteristic equation of a matrix. They are important in describing linear transformations.
identity matrix
matrix multiplication [or equivalents]
eigenvalues &lt;SR Math&gt;
The Maxwell equal area rule was introduced to correct a deficiency in this equation. For 10 points each:
Name this equation of state. It includes constants a and b to account for intermolecular forces and the volume excluded by particles.
The van der Waals equation is a modification of this other equation, which isn’t very good at high temperatures. It states that PV equals nRT.
For gases that are real, this quantity replaces pressure in calculations. For a real gas, this quantity is the pressure that an ideal gas would have at the same chemical potential as the real gas.
van der Waals equation
ideal gas law
fugacity &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
For an electromagnetic wave, this quantity is the speed of light over the wavelength. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, measured in hertz, that is equal to the reciprocal of the period.
This term names a type of velocity equal to the angular frequency divided by the wavenumber, which is contrasted with group velocity. This value is equal to the initial angle of the wave at the origin.
When the phase velocity of a charged particle is greater than the speed of light, this phenomenon occurs. It is responsible for the blue glow seen near nuclear reactors.
frequency
phase
Cherenkov radiation &lt;SR Physics&gt;
Generics, enums, and the enhanced for loop syntax were introduced in version 5 of this programming language. For 10 points each:
Name this object-oriented programming language originally developed at Sun Microsystems.
In contrast with traditional compilation, Java uses this faster kind of compilation. It occurs on the fly after the program has already started running, giving it access to dynamic runtime information.
This built-in Java API allows users to create GUIs, and it is intended to be more flexible than AWT.
Java
just-in-time compilation [accept JIT or delayed compilation]
Swing &lt;OL Computer Science&gt;
This structure is connected to the epididymis. For 10 points each:
Name this structure, part of the male reproductive system. Congenital absence of this structure occurs in people with cystic fibrosis, and a namesake contraceptive procedure severs this structure.
A vasectomy works because it prevents these male gametes from entering the ejaculate. They fertilize the egg to form a zygote.
The head of the sperm cell is partially covered by this cap-like organelle. It contains acidic enzymes that help the sperm fuse with the egg.
vas deferens
sperm [or spermatozoa]
acrosome &lt;SR Biology&gt;
Sister chromatids are separated in the second stage of this process and in the first stage of this process homologous chromosomes separate. For 10 points each:
Name this process where the genome is duplicated, followed by two consecutive cell divisions.
These events occur during the pachytene stage of prophase I. DNA breaks are joined with corresponding segments on non-sister chromatids during these events.
These points become visible during the diplotene stage of prophase I. These are the points where chromosomal crossover occurs.
meiosis
crossover events [or crossing over or recombination]
chiasmata &lt;SY Biology&gt;
Most of this compound is synthesized by the cumene process. For 10 points each:
Name this compound whose formula is C3H6O. Its common uses include paint thinner and nail polish remover.
Acetone is the simplest example of this type of compound. These compounds consist of a carbonyl group attached to carbon-containing substituents.
Compounds containing this element are removed from gasoline in the doctor sweetening process. Cysteine is the only amino acid that contains this element, which allows it to act as a nucleophile.
acetone [or propanone]
ketone [or alkanone]
sulfur [or S] &lt;SR Chemistry&gt;
This scientist names a law relating the redshift and the distance of objects in deep space and also a chart classifying galaxies. For 10 points each:
Name this cosmologist who theorized the expansion of the universe. He is the namesake of a space telescope launched into orbit in 1990.
Hubble’s discoveries discredited the ideas of a static universe and this parameter. Einstein proposed this parameter so that general relativity would work in a static universe, but would later call it his “biggest blunder.”
This paradox arises from a static and infinite universe. It claims that if there are infinite stars, then the sky should be infinitely bright.
Edwin Hubble
cosmological constant
Olbers’ paradox &lt;SY Astronomy&gt;
Answer the following questions about model organisms. For 10 points each:
This organism from the Brassicaceae family, informally the mustard plants, is known as thale cress. It was the first plant to have its entire genome sequenced.
A model organism from this kingdom, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, can convert sugars to alcohol and carbon dioxide in the fermentation process.
This model organism is a fish used in research for its regenerative abilities. It is named for its black and white stripes.
Arabidopsis thaliana [or arabidopsis]
fungi
zebrafish [accept Zebra Danio or Danio rerio] &lt;SY Biology&gt;
Retroviruses can use the reverse form of this process to produce viral DNA from their RNA genomes. For 10 points each:
Name this process where messenger RNA pairs with DNA before being exported from the nucleus.
These portions of DNA initiate transcription of a particular gene. Transcription factors can act either as an activator or a repressor when binding to these structures.
This core promoter sequence of about 25 to 35 base pairs from the start of the transcription start indicates where a genetic sequence can be read or decoded. It is named for its particular nucleotide sequence.
transcription
promoters
TATA box [accept Goldberg-Hogness box] &lt;AT&gt;
The synchro- variety of this device guides particles along a path with a constant radius. For 10 points each:
Name this type of particle accelerator which uses applied electric fields to accelerate particles in an outward spiral. The largest one, TRIUMF, is located in the University of British Columbia.
This other spiral-shaped object is a coil of wire wrapped into a tight helix. When electricity flows through this object, its magnetic field approximates that of a dipole.
This quantity refers to the amount of moving charge in a system and has units of amperes.
cyclotron
solenoid
current &lt;BM&gt;
This method is sometimes illustrated as performing the chain rule backwards. For 10 points each:
Name this method of finding an integral for an expression consisting of a term and that term’s derivative times some constant. One usually defines a variable “u” to take the place of the term in the integral.
u-substitution can be particularly useful when dealing with integrals of derivatives of this function, which is its own derivative.
The base of this logarithm is e. It’s often used as an intermediate when converting between logarithms of different bases.
u-substitution [accept integration by substitution or w-substitution]
exponential function [accept e to the x, e to some power, or any variable in place of “x”]
natural logarithm [or ln] &lt;CV&gt;
The rising portion of this circulation creates the ring of clouds known as the ITCZ. For 10 points each:
Name this global circulation that rises at the equator and falls at 30 degrees latitude.
This secondary circulation appears between the polar cells and Hadley cells, those circulations causing the existence of it. It thus appears approximately between 30 and 60 degrees latitude.
The lifting of air at the equator creates an area with a low value for this quantity. On weather maps, isobars connect areas with equal values of this pressure and the H and L on those maps indicate this quantity.
Hadley cell circulation
Ferrel cell
pressure
Low levels of this neurotransmitter have been found in patients with Alzheimer’s. For 10 points each:
Name this neurotransmitter that activates skeletal muscles by activating sodium ion channels at the neuromuscular junction.
Sodium ions are pumped out of neurons, while these other metal cations are pumped in during their action potentials, creating a voltage difference.
Acetylcholine is the only neurotransmitter used in this part of the peripheral nervous system. It is responsible for the voluntary control of body movements.
acetylcholine [accept AcH]
potassium ions [accept K+ ions]
somatic nervous system [prompt on voluntary nervous system] &lt;AT&gt;
Radioisotopes with known values for this quantity are often used to determine the age of objects. For 10 points each:
Name this term which describes the time it takes for 50% of a sample of radioactive substance to decay. For carbon-14, it is approximately 5700 years.
Radioactive beta decay is mediated by this fundamental force, which is carried by W and Z bosons.
To determine drug half-lives or exposure, this technique can be used on a drug concentration vs. time graph. This quantity is inversely proportional to the clearance, or elimination of the drug from the human body.
half-life
weak nuclear force
area under the curve &lt;BM&gt;
. Osmotic pressure is one of these properties, as it is directly proportional to the number of moles of solute. For 10 points each:
Name these properties that are dependent on the concentration of a solute in a solution, rather than the composition of the solute.
Boiling and freezing points are also colligative properties. This will occur to the boiling point of a substance if the concentration of solute is increased.
This value, symbolized i, is a measure of the effects of a solute on the colligative properties of a solution. Glucose has a value of 1 for this quantity, because it does not dissolve in water.
colligative properties
it will increase [accept clear knowledge equivalents, like it will be higher or go up]
van’t Hoff factor &lt;AT&gt;
Answer the following about a certain field of mathematics, for 10 points each:
This mathematical field involves procedures such examining the convergence of series, differentiating, and integrating. It was developed in the 17th century.
Principles in calculus like the Law of Continuity supported the use of these in developing calculus. They are too small to see or measure and were first rigidly defined by Archimedes.
This philosopher attacked the use of infinitesimals in T​he Analyst.​ He was mainly known for the development of what came to be called “subjective idealism,” the belief that only mental things and minds themselves exist.
calculus
infinitesimals​ [accept clear knowledge equivalents, like infinitesimal values]
George Berkeley​ &lt;BS&gt;
pH is related to the negative logarithm of the concentration of these in a solution. For 10 points each:
Name this particle which is an ionized hydrogen atom. According to the Brønsted-Lowry definition, it is donated by acids and accepted by bases.
These compounds do not dissociate as much in solution as their stronger counterparts. Examples of these compounds include formic, hydrofluoric, and acetic.
This term applies to substances which can both gain and lose a proton. Water exemplifies this characteristic because it can dissociate into both acidic hydronium and basic hydroxide ions.
proton [accept H+ ion]
weak acids [prompt on acids]
amphoteric [accept amphiprotic] &lt;BM&gt;
This type of tissue contains elongated tracheids and shorter vessel elements that contain perforation plates. For 10 points each:
Name this type of plant tissue that transports water and dissolved solutes throughout plants. It contrasts with phloem.
Secondary xylem originates from this meristematic tissue, which is located between the xylem and phloem in vascular stems. It consists of undifferentiated, parallel rows of totipotent cells.
Water travels through xylem during transpiration because of this process, which allows water to move upwards against gravity due to a combination of cohesion, surface tension, and adhesion.
xylem
vascular cambium
capillary action [accept capillary motion or wicking] &lt;AT&gt;
In July 2012, CERN announced that it detected this elusive particle with a mass of 125 giga-electronvolts. For 10 points each:
Name this elementary particle of the Standard Model whose existence was theoretical for many decades. It and its associated field are named after a British physicist.
The Higgs boson helps explain what gives rise to this property of matter, the amount of stuff something contains. Photons and gluons lack this property.
Bosons contrast with this other classification of particle in the Standard Model. These particles obey the Pauli Exclusion Principle and include quarks, electrons, and neutrinos.
Higgs boson
mass
fermions &lt;BM&gt;
These structures can be oriented along the x-, y-, or z-axes and they have a characteristic dumbbell shape. For 10 points each:
Name these structures which can hold up to two electrons and whose namesake subshell can hold up to six. They correspond to an azimuthal quantum number of 1.
These structures involve the overlap of parallel, planar p-orbitals. They characterize alkenes and are represented by two lines drawn between atoms.
This term represents the sum of all double bonds and rings in a compound. For benzene, it is 4.
p-orbitals [prompt on p or orbital]
double bonds (do not accept “pi bond”)
Accept any of the following: elements of unsaturation, degrees of unsaturation, index of hydrogen deficiency, unsaturation index &lt;BM&gt;
Euclid proved that there are an infinite number of these For 10 points each:
Name these numbers, whose only factors are themselves and one. The only even one of these numbers is two.
The non-trivial zeroes of this function can be used to estimate the distribution of primes. This function is named after a German mathematician and applies to any constant variable sigma plus i t.
According to the Riemann hypothesis, the real part of any non-trivial zero of the Riemann zeta function is this constant value smaller than one.
prime numbers
Riemann zeta function (prompt on “Riemann function”)
one half [accept clear equivalents] &lt;BS&gt;
