The rectification of names and the maintaining of proper relationships are central to the school of thought associated with this thinker, which is officially called Ruism. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese thinker. The Four Books and Five Classics are central to this philosopher’s school of thought, which is often contrasted with Daoism and Legalism.
Mencius dubiously claimed that Confucius compiled this text, one of the Five Classics which chronicles the affairs of the State of Lǔ. The Commentary of Zuǒ is one of the traditional Three Commentaries on this text.
A later Han Dynasty text titled the Classic of this virtue is framed as a conversation between Confucius and his pupil Zengzi. This Confucian virtue generally entails respect for one’s elders and ancestors.
Confucius [or Kǒng Zi or Kǒng Qiu; accept Kǒng Fuzi; accept Confucianism]
Spring and Autumn Annals [or Chūnqiū]
filial piety [or xiào; accept xiàojing; do NOT accept or prompt on “piety”]  &lt;Philosophy — Ma&gt; [Edited]
Antonin Artaud suggested using a “language of totem and culture” in this art form in his essay collection titled for this art form <em>and its Double</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this art form. A “epic” variant of this art form is based on Marxist dialectics and uses a so-called “distancing effect.”
Bertolt Brecht argued that theater should use the distancing effect to prevent the audience from undergoing this emotional “purgation” described in Aristotle’s Poetics.
This philosopher argued that ancient Greek theater arose out of “Apollonian” and “Dionysian” elements in his The Birth of Tragedy. This philosopher’s The Gay Science declares that “God is dead!”
theater [or drama, stage, or plays; accept epic theater or acting or tragedy]
catharsis
Friedrich Nietzsche [or Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche] &lt;Philosophy — French&gt; [Edited]
In the <em>Encomium</em>, Gorgias argued that Helen could not have been responsible for the Trojan War since she was a victim of either abduction, love, or this discipline. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline. Common formulas used by practitioners of this discipline are called topoi.
Gorgias argues with this character about whether rhetoric is a true or false art in one of the dialogues named after this philosopher, who was Plato’s teacher. A questioning style of argumentation is this philosopher’s “method.”
Classical rhetoric defines three modes of persuasion. In this mode, the speaker emphasizes their own credibility.
rhetoric [accept logos; prompt on synonyms such as oratory, oration, speech-giving, public speaking, or persuasion]
Socrates
ethos (The other modes are logos (appeal to logic) and pathos (appeal to emotions).) &lt;Philosophy — French&gt; [Edited]
You think you’re human, but should you be so sure? For 10 points each, answer the following about the murky nature of consciousness:
You might be one of these beings which experience no qualia but are physically identical to humans. David Chalmers is known for arguing that these beings are logically conceivable.
You might instead be one of these things whose capacity to understand is central to the Chinese Room Argument. The Turing Test is meant to distinguish these things from humans.
Or maybe, as this philosopher hypothesized, the outside world is all an illusion made by an “evil demon.” This French philosopher showed he was only sure about his own consciousness by stating “I think, therefore I am.”
p-zombies [or philosophical zombies]
computers [or artificial intelligences or AI or strong AIs or weak AIs or robots]
René Descartes [accept Cartesian dualism] &lt;Philosophy — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This tradition is contrasted with continental philosophy in its emphasis on facts and logic. For 10 points each:
Identify this broad philosophical style popular in the United States and Britain, whose members includes W. V. O. Quine and G. E. Moore.
Bertrand Russell, a prominent analytic philosopher, supported this position with an analogy about a teapot floating in space, as well as the pamphlet Why I Am Not a Christian.
This student of Bertrand Russell included the “duckrabbit” illusion as one of the numerous philosophical problems discussed in his posthumously-published Philosophical Investigations.
analytical philosophy
atheism [or words forms, such as being an atheist; or any word forms for denying the existence of God]
Ludwig Wittgenstein [or Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein] &lt;JG, Philosophy&gt;
This thought experiment was originally formulated by Phillippa Foot in her 1967 paper “The Problem of Abortion and the Doctrine of the Double Effect.” For 10 points each:
Name this thought experiment in ethics. In this dilemma, the namesake runaway vehicle is bearing down on five people, but can be diverted to kill only one person.
Proponents of this branch of philosophy would argue that you should pull the switch, since it maximizes overall happiness. Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill are associated with this school of philosophy.
Judith Thompson’s trolley problem variant asks if it is ethical to push one of these people off a bridge so they land in front of the trolley. Foot’s original essay describes a scenario where one of these people is stuck in the mouth of a cave.
trolley problem [accept any good synonym for “problem” as long as a trolley is mentioned]
utilitarianism
a fat man [or any answer that clearly indicates an overweight person; do not accept answers that refer specifically to women or female-identifying people since that’s not in either original source] &lt;TB, Philosophy&gt;
Understanding and defining this concept is the subject of a philosophical field known as epistemology. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that Plato defined as “justified true belief.” This concept can be very roughly defined as being familiar with or having information about something.
This German philosopher explored a dichotomy involving a priori and a posteriori knowledge, or knowledge gained without and with experience, respectively, in his book Critique of Pure Reason.
This American philosopher gives his name to problems that contradict the definition of knowledge as “justified true belief” by creating scenarios where a person’s reasons for having a justified true belief of something are incorrect.
knowledge
Immanuel Kant
Edmund L. Gettier III [or Gettier problems; or Gettier cases] &lt;EA, Philosophy&gt;
This thinker wrote about how he supported the separation of church and state in his <em>A Letter Concerning Toleration</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this English philosopher, whose contributions to political theory include drafting the Constitutions of Carolina and writing Two Treatises on Government.
Locke believed that people are born without innate notions or ideas in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding. That idea is given this two-word Latin name.
Locke wrote that this concept is the result of man mixing his labor with nature. He partially inspired the ideas of the Declaration of Independence by saying that everyone has the right to “life, liberty,” and this concept.
John Locke
tabula rasa [prompt on “blank slate” or “empty slate” or “clean slate”]
property [do NOT accept “the pursuit of happiness”] &lt;EA, Philosophy&gt;
William Lane Craig defended this position using the <em>kalam</em> argument. For 10 points each:
Identify this belief, which is the subject of the cosmological argument. Some of Thomas Aquinas’ five arguments in favor of this belief include the “unmoved mover” and the “first cause.”
In his namesake “wager,” this 17th-century philosopher wrote that whether or not there is a God, humans should believe in him, as they’re risking only finite losses against infinite gains.
This theologian proposed the first ontological argument for God’s existence, arguing that if the idea of God exists in people’s minds, then God must exist in reality. This Archbishop of Canterbury wrote the Proslogian.
existence of God [do NOT accept or prompt on “God does not exist” or anything similar]
Blaise Pascal
Saint Anselm of Canterbury [accept Anselm of Aosta and Anselm of Bec] &lt;EA, Philosophy&gt;
One section of this work details the ways a new ruler can attain conquest by virtue, someone else’s virtue, criminal virtue, or democratic elections. For 10 points each:
Name this political treatise dedicated to Lorenzo de Medici, which concludes that it is better for a ruler to be feared than loved.
The Prince is one of the most famous works by this Italian Renaissance thinker, who discussed the history of the Roman Empire in his Discourses on Livy.
In The Prince, Machiavelli says to minimize the impact of this concept, which controls half of the actions of humans. Machiavelli likened this concept to a flooding river whose damage can be minimized with dams.
The Prince [or Il Principe]
Niccolo Machiavelli [or Niccolo di Bernardo dei Machiavelli]
fortuna [or fortune; prompt on luck] &lt;EA, Philosophy&gt;
NOTE TO MODERATOR: Please do not reveal alternate answers to the first part of the bonus, as that will spoil the second part. Thanks! This allegory speculates that a man who finally sees the light will eventually be able to appreciate the goodness of the sun, similar to the Analogy of the Sun that appears later in the work. For 10 points each:
Name this allegory in which people are only able to see the shadows on a wall cast by a fire and puppeteers, and the people looking at the wall only know those shadows as their reality.
The Allegory of the Cave appears in this ancient Greek philosopher’s dialogue the Republic, where it represents his theory of forms. This philosopher included his teacher Socrates in most of his dialogues.
This other parable from the Republic asks whether a person can remain just if they have no chance of being caught doing evil acts using the title object, which grants a person invisibility and allows them to surrender to their appetites.
Allegory of the Cave [accept Myth of the Cave, Metaphor of the Cave, or parable of the cave; accept, but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL Plato’s Cave]
Plato [or Platon]
the Ring of Gyges &lt;EA, Philosophy&gt;
In one work, this philosopher envisions a “kingdom of ends” and argues that we should be able to will the maxim by which we act to be a universal law. For 10 points each:
Name this German philosopher who described the categorical imperative in his Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals.
Kant published the Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics as a clarification to this work, in which he demonstrates the existence of synthetic a priori truths.
In the Critique of Pure Reason, Kant distinguishes between phenomena and these imperceptible things that he calls “things-in-themselves.”
Immanuel Kant
Critique of Pure Reason
noumena [or noumenon] &lt;Philosophy, DY&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
The philosophical roots of the American Revolution can largely be found in this philosopher’s <em>Two Treatises of Government</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this English enlightenment philosopher who developed the idea of a right to revolution as part of his social contract theory.
Locke’s theories of natural rights were adapted most famously by this 1776 document drafted primarily by Thomas Jefferson that holds “certain truths to be self-evident.”
Locke’s earliest work is often thought to be the Fundamental Constitutions for this Royal Province of the Americas, a work praised by Voltaire for its religious tolerance.
John Locke
Declaration of Independence
Carolina [do not accept or prompt on “Carolinas” or North or South Carolina] &lt;Philosophy, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Prominent contributors to this field include Peter Singer, who proposed extending rights to animals in his book <em>Animal Liberation</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this subfield of philosophy that concerns itself with moral questions of right and wrong.
This approach to ethics that was popularized by a namesake work by John Stuart Mill argues that the best action is ensures the greatest well-being for the greatest number of people.
Utilitarianism is a subset of a diverse class of this theory, which holds that the rightness of an action ultimately stems from the action’s results.
ethics
utilitarianism [accept word forms]
consequentialism [accept word forms] &lt;Philosophy, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Bertrand Russell once wrote, “nothing was attributable to Roman Philosophy, because there was none,” but that’s not entirely correct. For 10 points each:
Perhaps the most famous Roman philosopher was this last of the Five Good Emperors, whose Meditations stand as a major work of stoic philosophy.
The Roman poet Lucretius was a notable popularizer of this philosophical school that became the leading opponent of stoicism, disagreeing on a number of key issues like political participation and free will.
A revival of this bean-hating philosopher’s teachings also emerged during the first century. He is better known for his mathematical theorem relating the lengths of a right triangle.
Marcus Aurelius
Epicureanism [accept word forms]
Pythagoras &lt;Philosophy, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Plato is considered one of the greatest stylists of all time for his application of this literary form to philosophical analysis. For 10 points each:
The Euthyphro, Meno, Apology, and Crito are all works that are written in this literary form, whose name derives from the central action between Socrates and his interlocutors.
The Euthyphro concerns itself with the discovery of this concept, which Socrates remarks is either loved by the gods because it causes the gods to love it, or loved by the gods because the gods love it.
Socrates is sentenced to this punishment during his trial in the Apology, after not explicitly denying the charge that he corrupted the youth of Athens.
dialogue
piety (accept holiness)
death [accept poisoning; accept drinking hemlock] &lt;Philosophy, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
<strong></strong> According to Aristotle, Speusippus denied that the “ideal” version of these things existed, while Xenocrates equated these things with the forms, Plato in his later thought likely did. For 10 points each:
The belief in the existence of these things independently of the mind is thus often termed Platonism. When they were not working on logic, these things were studied by Alfred Tarski and Kurt Godel [GUR-”dull”].
Followers of this creator of a prank drinking glass worshipped ten in the form of the Tetractys, but didn’t like 2 as much for being the “female” number and the number of opinion. They also possibly drowned Hippasus for discovering an irrational number while studying triangles, to which this man’s most famous theorem applies.
This thinker promoted achieving henosis, or “oneness,” with the One from which all things emanate in the Enneads compiled by his student.
numbers [anti-prompt on “sets”; prompt on “mathematics”]
Pythagoras of Samos [accept Pythagorean theorem]
Plotinus
<strong></strong> The third book of this text praises music as a direction expression of the first title concept, which can be transcended through art. For 10 points each:
Name this book which proposes that title concept as immanent and universal, and asserts it can allow us look to beyond the second title concept to the thing-in-itself, contra Kant, and see the noumenal aspect of the universe.
This pessimistic, misogynistic, poodle-loving German wrote The World as Will and Representation. He scheduled his lectures at the University of Berlin at the same time as his rival Hegel.
Schopenhauer’s pessimism and love of music heavily influenced this philosopher, who distinguished the Apollonian and Dionysian in The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music.
The World as Will and Representation [accept Presentation or Idea in place of Representation; accept Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung]
Arthur Schopenhauer
Friedrich Nietzsche
In this book, a man uses a skull as a pillow which asks him “How do you know it’s bad to be dead?” For 10 points each:
Name this book, parts of which are framed as dialogues with Huizi. It expands on the Dao de jing throughout its “Inner Chapters,” “Outer Chapters,” and “Miscellaneous Chapters.”
Zhuangzi could not tell whether he was a man dreaming of one of these animals, or one of these animals dreaming of a man, which exemplifies the “Transformation of Things.”
Zhuangzi analogized a doctrine advising to “rectify” these things to a net for catching fish. One of these words given to the central figure of the Analects is “Confucius,” while the one belonging to the author of the Zhuangzi is “Zhuangzi.”
(the) Zhuangzi [“JWONG-dzuh” but accept phonetic answers; accept Zhuangzhou; or Chuang tzu]
butterfly [accept Butterfly Dream]
name(s) [accept rectification of names or zhengming or chengming; prompt on words]
Michael Oakeshott, a member of this philosophical tradition, identified six indicative characteristics to it, including “to prefer the familiar to the unknown” and to prefer “present laughter to utopian bliss.” For 10 points each:
Name this movement exemplified in extreme form by Joseph de Maistre. Another thinker from this tradition who wrote Reflections on the Revolution in France was Edmund Burke.
Russell Kirk wrote an influential book titled for The Conservative [this thing]. Conservatives latched on to an Allan Bloom book which argues that relativistic thinking’s “openness” actually leads to The Closing of the American [one of these things].
Modern libertarianism, which many modern conservatives align with contra Russell Kirk, is heavily influenced by the Objectivism of this novelist who wrote Atlas Shrugged.
conservatism [or word forms; prompt on “monarchism” due to the Maistre clue; accept more specific answers like neoconservatism or Whiggism]
mind [accept The Conservative Mind; accept The Closing of the American Mind; do not prompt on putative synonyms such as “brain” since those are very philosophical different to everyone but the Churchlands]
Ayn Rand
Martha Nussbaum criticized this thinker for, among other things, the sort of unreadable writing that won her the 1st prize in <em>Philosophy and Literature</em>’s annual Bad Writing Contest ahead of Homi Bhabha in “The Professor of Parody.” For 10 points each:
Name this thinker best known for claiming that gender is performative, or “done” rather than fixed and unchanging in her Gender Trouble.
Nussbaum linked Butler’s popularity with that of French post-structuralists, among whom is the similarity indecipherable Julia Kristeva. Kristeva coined a term for the interactions between these things that affects their meaning. They are often subjected to “close readings.”
al-Ghazali accused the followers of Avicenna of incoherence of a more logical than linguistic sort in The Incoherence of the Philosophers. This Aristotelian Islamic thinker responded in The Incoherence of the Incoherence.
Judith Butler
texts [or books or anything about written media, although “text” is a more abstract term and they are not really the same thing; accept intertextuality]
Averr(h)oes [or Abū l-Walīd Muḥammad Ibn ‘Aḥmad Ibn Rushd]
This doctrine is the subject of the “repugnant conclusion” of Derek Parfit’s mere addition paradox. For 10 points each:
Name this doctrine, also attacked by Robert Nozick with a “monster” Wikipedia explains in terms of cookies to attack John Rawls’ maximin principle.
This thinker expanded on Jeremy Bentham’s utilitarianism in his book titled Utilitarianism. He also wrote On Liberty.
Bentham’s felicific calculus is sometimes named instead for this doctrine that pleasure is the highest good, which encompasses consequentialist schools like Utilitarianism and Epicureanism.
(act or rule) utilitarianism [accept greatest happiness principle or “the greatest happiness for/of the greatest number”; prompt on “consequentialism”; prompt on descriptions about maximizing “pleasure” or “happiness” or “utility”; accept but do NOT otherwise reveal hedonism]
John Stuart Mill
hedonism [accept word forms, as in hedonic calculus and hedonistic calculus]
This philosopher proposed that analytics should stop acting as if knowledge could perfectly reflect nature, which makes most philosophical investigation into useless semantic pseudo-problems.. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher who wrote Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature.
Rorty advanced a “neo-” version of this school of thought to which Cornel West also belongs, named after a William James book that proposes treating truth as “what works” and taking ideas at their “cash value.”
James’s “tender-minded” and “tough-minded” categorization of thinkers roughly corresponds to two earlier schools. One is exemplified by reason-emphasizing “continentals” like Descartes and the other consists of experience-emphasizing “British” thinkers like John Locke. Name both.
Richard (McKay) Rorty
Pragmatism [or Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking]
rationalism AND empiricism [accept in either order; accept either in word forms like rationalists]
This man used the pseudonyms Victor Eremita, A, B, and Johannes in his book <em>Either/Or.</em> For ten points each:
Name this Danish philosopher who wrote Fear and Trembling.
In Fear and Trembling, Kierkegaard uses this term to denote individuals whose belief in God frees them from earthly tethers. Kierkegaard offers the Virgin Mary and Abraham as two examples of this concept.
Kierkegaard founded and embodied this school of philosophy which embraces the need for human free agency in philosophical thinking. Simone de Beauvoir and Albert Camus also embraces this philosophy.
Søren Kierkegaard
knight of faith (prompt on “knight”)
existentialism
Many Greek philosophers made significant contributions long before Socrates came around. For ten points each:
This polymath is often considered the first Greek philosopher. This man rejected mythology in favor of observation and hypotheses and believed that everything was made up of water.
This ascetic philosopher preached the transmigration of souls and urged his followers not to eat either meat or beans. More famously, this man names a handy theorem for finding the length of a hypotenuse.
This “Weeping Philosopher” from Ephesus believed in the panta rhei, the idea that the universe exists in a constant and natural state of change.
Thales of Miletus
Pythagoras
Heraclitus
In this work, its author expresses pride that he “did not make proof of my virility before the proper season.” For ten points each:
Name this diary of personal reflections and self-improvement compiled by the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius. This text urges its reader not to “act as if you were going to live ten thousand years.”
In Meditations, Marcus discourages the discussion of what makes up this concept and instead urges the reader to just be one.
Meditations aligns with this school of philosophy founded by Zeno and known for its foundational logic and dismissal of emotions. The works of Seneca the Younger also express this philosophy.
Meditations
a good person (or good man, or descriptive equivalents)
Stoicism
This political philosophy believes that society naturally arises without government, a principle called spontaneous order. For ten points each:
Name this philosophy with supports exceptionally limited government and completely free markets. Ayn Rand’s objectivism is closely linked with this philosophy.
This libertarian thinker wrote Anarchy, State, and Utopia about a society in which individuals can choose the rules of whatever society they join. This Harvard professor also wrote Philosophical Explanations.
One Nozick thought experiment ridicules utilitarianism through this construct which receives far more happiness than anyone else does, thereby nullifying utilitarian principles.
Libertarianism
Robert Nozick
utility monster
This man uses the term <em>Aufheben</em> to describe the interaction between two competing arguments, the thesis and the antithesis. For ten points each:
Name this thinker who described his namesake dialectic in Science of Logic and wrote Phenomenology of Spirit.
In Phenomenology of Spirit, Hegel used this term to describe the force which moves great historical figures to change the course of the world.
This American thinker observed the overpowering democratic geist of the modern era and predicted its inevitable dominance in his 1992 book The End of History and the Last Man.
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
geist (prompt on “spirit”)
Francis Fukuyama
This philosopher suggested that many categories are best discussed in terms of “family resemblances,” not set criteria. For 10 points each:
Name this 20th-century philosopher, who originated the notion of “language-games” and argued that a private language is impossible.
Part of Wittgenstein’s argument in the Philosophical Investigations is that the meaning of a word is determined by this other aspect of the word. A description is fine.
Wittgenstein’s Philosophical Investigations opens by attacking a view of language-learning discussed in this Catholic author’s Confessions. This Church Father coined the term “just war” in his City of God.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
use [accept word forms like how people use it or usage]
Saint Augustine of Hippo &lt;JR&gt;
This philosopher’s teachings were later expanded by Xunzi [“SHEWN tzu”]. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese philosopher who advocated virtues like ren and li. His sayings are compiled as the Analects.
Li sort-of includes this specific virtue, which consists of deference to one’s elders. It’s generally thought that this virtue is a kind of “training” for being obedient to an autocratic state.
Ren and Li are two of this many “constants” that later Confucians codified as the basis of ethical behavior. Confucius supposedly compiled this many “Classics,” which include the I Ching and the Spring and Autumn Annals.
Confucius [or Kongzi; or Kong Fuzi; accept Zhongni]
filial piety [or xiao [“shyow”]]
five &lt;JR&gt;
This concept is often elucidated with the example that a seed “wants” to become an adult plant and high objects “want” to fall. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek term, which is often translated as “final cause.”
Aristotle claims that an object’s telos is pretty important in this book, which takes Zeno’s paradox apart to explain how motion is possible. This book was followed by an Aristotle book on the nature of being.
According to Aristotle, all change takes place in the realm below this fifth element. The Sun and Moon and everything else above the terrestrial sphere move around in this element.
telos
Physics [or Phusike akroasis; or Physicae Auscultationes] (The next book is the Metaphysics.)
aether [or quintessence] &lt;JR&gt;
The eighth and last book of one of this man’s works discusses an educational program that includes training in music and gymnastics. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher who argued that men should rule over their children like kings in a book that classifies six kinds of “constitution.”
Aristotle’s Politics is often seen as a follow-up to this book of moral philosophy. In this book, Aristotle advocates virtue, or arete, and happiness, or eudaimonia.
Unfortunately, Aristotle’s Politics also argues that some people are born to be this kind of person. That defense of this status was attacked by abolitionist thinkers like William Lloyd Garrison.
Aristotle [or Aristoteles]
Nicomachean Ethics [prompt on just Ethics]
slaves [accept word forms like slavery] &lt;JR&gt;
Ten “modes” of this kind of philosophy were put forth by a philosopher who wrote books <em>Against the Mathematicians</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical position defended in An Apology for Raymond Sebond and other works by Michel de Montaigne.
This 18th-century skeptical philosopher divided the necessary and the contingent, or “relations of ideas” and “matters of fact” in what has been dubbed his “fork.”
René Descartes also started from a skeptical position, but ended up believing that his doubting proved his existence. He summarized that argument as: “I do” this action, “therefore I am.”
skepticism [accept Pyrrhonian skepticism]
David Hume
I think [or cogito; or je pense] &lt;JR&gt;
This man argued that, at birth, the mind is a <em>tabula rasa</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th-century English philosopher who wrote An Essay concerning Human Understanding. His Second Treatise on Government claims that all people have a right to “life, liberty, and property.”
Locke’s theory of the tabula rasa means that all knowledge is of this kind. In Critique of Pure Reason, Kant argued that statements like “five plus seven equals twelve” are not of this type, even though they’re synthetic.
Locke epitomized this broad school of thought also advocated by George Berkeley. This idea, which held that all knowledge comes from our senses, was once opposed by Cartesian rationalism.
John Locke
a posteriori
empiricism &lt;JR&gt;
This work hinges on an oath the central person made to uphold the Laws, which are inherently just. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical work, which argues that people should never do an injustice, even to escape the consequences of another injustice.
In his namesake dialogue, Crito tries to convince this man to escape prison. This philosopher is the dominant speaker in most of Plato’s dialogues.
The Crito is usually bundled with this other Plato work, which is a reimagining of Socrates’s legal defense.
Crito
Socrates
Apology [or Apologia] &lt;JR&gt;
This man distinguished between “truth” and “certainty,” which are studied by philosophy and philology. For 10 points each:
Name this 18th-century Italian philosopher who proposed a cyclical view of history in the New Science.
This man was one of the few 18th-century philosophers who seems to have picked up on Vico’s ideas. This man wrote two Discourses and an Essay on the Origin of Languages.
Rousseau and Vico both ran somewhat counter to this broad intellectual movement of the 18th century. This movement emphasized the use of reason and was promoted by people like Voltaire.
Giambattista Vico
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
the Enlightenment [or le Siècle des lumières] &lt;JR&gt;
This method was exemplified by the catechistic format of Peter Abelard’s <em>Sic et Non</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this method that dominated medieval philosophy starting in the 12th century. Saint Anselm is often considered the “founder” of this kind of philosophy.
Most people agree that this 13th-century philosopher was the greatest Scholastic. This man systematized practically all of Catholic thought in his Summa Theologica.
A pretty impressive later theological summary was written by Francisco Suárez, a scholar from this Spanish university town. This city’s university is the third-oldest in Europe, after Bologna and Oxford.
Scholasticism [accept word forms like scholastic]
Saint Thomas Aquinas
Salamanca &lt;JR&gt;
Bonus: A waiter who acts too much like a waiter to the point where he believes that he is nothing more than a waiter serves as an example of this concept. For ten points each:
Give this two-word concept from existentialism, which describes how people deceive themselves by identifying solely by their occupation or role in society.
The concept of bad faith was introduced in Being and Nothingness, the greatest work of philosophy by this French existentialist.
Sartre was notably a lover of this feminist and existentialist, who declared “One is not born, but becomes, a woman” in her book The Second Sex.
bad faith
Jean Paul Sartre
Simone de Beauvoir &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The appendix to this work describes the difference between the object-in-itself and the thing-in-itself, and that appendix is called <em>Critique of the Kantian Philosophy</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this work which described human experiences due to the two title concepts. It also describes how there is no end to suffering and how all life is suffering.
This German author of The World as Will and Representation showed his misogynistic side in an essay attacking females for being incapable of deep thought or mental maturity and requiring a master, On Women.
In The World as Will and Representation, Schopenhauer described how this concept is a cause for suffering, which the Buddha also claims is the cause for human suffering, and must be eliminated in order to reach Nirvana.
The World as Will and Representation [accept The World as Will and Idea, The World as Will and Presentation, or Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung, prompt on WWR or WWV]
Arthur Schopenhauer
desire [accept craving or other equivalents] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Name these things which make up the universe, or at least according to philosophers. For ten points each:
The Pythagoreans claimed that this thing was first thing that existed. The idea that these things were an elementary particle was adopted and developed by Gottfried Leibniz, who wrote a book titled after them.
Democritus claimed that these things were actually the elementary particles, and that they made up the universe, and the space between them was known as the “void.” Its name comes from the Greek word for indivisible.
This other ancient Greek philosopher and author of On Nature claimed that fire was actually the fundamental element of the universe. He was known as the “weeping” philosopher, in contrast to Democritus, the “laughing” philosopher.
monads
atoms
Heraclitus of Ephesus &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This man pioneered the use of coordinates to represent geometrical problems. For ten points each:
Name this French philosopher who famously stated “Cogito, ergo sum,” or, “I think, therefore I am” in his Discourse on the Method.
Descartes also advocated this belief about the separateness of the material body but non-material mind, connected through the pineal gland.
In Meditations on First Philosophy, Descartes described an argument about this substance. He noted that many of its properties, such as sight, look, and shape change when it melts, supporting his belief in the uncertainty of our observations.
Rene Descartes
Mind-body dualism [or Cartesian dualism, or mind-body dichotomy]
wax [accept Wax argument] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This work describes a “missing shade of blue” which a person can accurately conceive despite having never seen it before. For ten points each:
Name this empiricist work that contains sections such as “Of the association of ideas” and “Of probability.” It expands on its author’s A Treatise of Human Nature, and Immanuel Kant famously claimed that this work awakened him from his “dogmatic slumber.”
This Scottish philosopher wrote An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding and A Treatise of Human Nature. He also described a debate between Demea, Philo, and Cleanthes in Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion.
In this section of An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Hume defines the title phenomena as a violation of the laws of nature, and goes on to criticize the reliability of people in their witnessing of the title phenomena.
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding
David Hume
“Of Miracles” &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: He answered the title question of one work as “man’s leaving his self-caused immaturity”. For ten points each:
Name this German philosopher who wrote What is Enlightenment? He is perhaps best known for his book concerning human knowledge, The Critique of Pure Reason.
In his Groundwork for the Metaphysic of Morals, Kant introduced this concept, which provides a way for one to evaluate moral actions and make moral judgments. An example of this concept is “Brush your teeth, so you don’t get cavities”.
In The Critique of Pure Reason, Kant distinguished this type of truth as one whose justification does not rely upon experience, in contrast to a similarly named truth that does. “7+5=12” is an example of this type of statement.
Immanuel Kant
Categorical Imperative
a priori &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Alexander the Great supposedly asked this man if there was any favor he could do for him, and he responded by telling Alexander to stand out of his sunlight. For ten points each:
Name this philosopher, a follower of Antisthenes and a founder of Cynicism. When asked where he was from, he claimed that he was a “citizen of the world,” and he walked with a lamp during the day, “looking for an honest man.”
This other Ancient Greek philosopher realized he was the wisest man in Greece because he knew that he knew nothing. Plato’s Apology describes the trial of this man, who was sentenced to death by drinking hemlock for corrupting the youth.
This philosopher claimed that the origin and nature of all matter was water. He further said that the Earth floated on water, and earthquakes were caused by waves in this water.
Diogenes of Sinope
Socrates
Thales of Miletus &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: The section “Of Human Bondage” in this work is followed by “Of Human Freedom.”. For ten points each:
Name this work which is “demonstrated in geometrical order.” It claims that God is nature and vice-versa, and it describes a number of “Attributes,” including Extension and Thought.
Ethics was written by this Dutch philosopher. His claims that God was equivalent to nature led others to believe he was Pantheist, prompting the Jewish community to ostracize him.
This other work by Spinoza claims that Moses could not have written the Torah. It also argues that Jews are not chosen people, and that miracles are caused solely by God’s laws of nature.
Ethics
Baruch Spinoza [or Benedict de Spinoza, Benedito de Espinosa]
Tractatus Theologico-Politicus [prompt on “TTP”, accept Theological Political Treatise] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Michel Foucault argued that this model was necessary to discipline prisoners without excessive force. For ten points each:
Name this model prison system in which the all of the cells are on one wall and can be seen from a central point. Its purpose is to make it impossible for prisoners to know if they are being observed at any given time.
The Panopticon was designed by this English thinker, the founder of Utilitarianism.
Bentham was also a teacher to this other philosopher, who put forth the greatest-happiness principle in his book, Utilitarianism.
Panopticon
Jeremy Bentham
John Stuart Mill &lt;RP&gt;
The French thinkers of this movement were known as les Lumières [LAY LOO-me-air]. For 10 points each—
Give this 18th century movement whose name suggests it was a time of gaining wisdom.
The Age of Reason was a pamphlet by this American whose other political writings included Agrarian Justice and Common Sense.
Many Enlightenment writers discussed this concept where individuals give up some freedom in exchange for government protection. This agreement titles a 1762 work by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
Age of Enlightenment or Age of Reason
Thomas Paine
social contract
For 10 points each—name these branches or movements in philosophy:
This term means a system of moral principles or a philosophy that assigns goodness or badness to actions. Spinoza wrote a treatise usually known by this term.
One of Aristotle's works deals with this branch that tries to describe reality. Ontology and cosmology are among topics studied in this branch.
Martin Heidegger and Jean-Paul Sartre were among the thinkers in this movement which stresses the importance of the personal experience and taking responsibility for one's actions.
ethics (accept word forms; accept Ethics, Demonstrated in Geometrical Order or Ethica, ordine geometrico demonstrata)
metaphysics (accept word forms)
existentialism (accept word forms)
This process's modern form is often credited to Roger Bacon. For 10 points each—
Give this technique of acquiring knowledge. It involves formulating a hypothesis, testing predictions, and refining a theory based on the experimental results.
The 1637 Discourse on the Method described this thinker's quest to doubt everything until evidence is found. The work includes this man's statement "I think, therefore I am."
A scientist might also use this principle that chooses the hypothesis with the fewest assumptions among competing ideas. Because this rule allows one to eliminate unlikely scenarios, it is called a "razor."
scientific method
René Descartes
Occam's razor (accept law of parsimony)
The Hundred Schools of Thought is widely regarded as the greatest age of Chinese philosophy. For 10 points each:
Name this patriarch of Chinese philosophy who developed a system of social hierarchy and reciprocal relationships. He is best known for stressing the importance of filial piety in his Analects.
This pessimistic philosophy held that human beings are fundamentally depraved and that discipline must be imposed by a totalitarian state. Shang Yang and the Qin [CHIN] minister Li Si are perhaps its most famous adherents.
This famously individualistic “school of the way” was legendarily founded by the sage Laozi. Emphasizing wu-wei or “naturalness” instead of social conformity, it stands uniquely opposed to Chinese political culture.
Confucius
Legalism
Taoism [accept Daoism]
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the Age of Enlightenment.
This Genevan philosopher emphasized the importance of raising children well and penned The Social Contract.
This French lawyer stated in Considerations on the Causes of The Greatness of the Romans and Their Decline that “It is not chance that rules the world.” He also formulated the “separation of powers.”
This phrase refers to monarchs that adapted some Enlightenment ideas. One common example of such a monarch is Frederick the Great.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
Baron de Montesquieu
“Enlightened Despot” [accept “Enlightened Absolutist”]
What good is the right to choose if our choices are predetermined? For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical concept, the ability to choose between different courses of action without external influence. Determinists do not believe that human beings have this, as our thoughts are predetermined by physical laws.
Harry Frankfurt argues that free will can be reconciled with determinism as a psychological state in a thought experiment featuring two of these people.
There are still those who subscribe to this position that human beings absolutely have free will; it is not to be confused with the freedom-loving political philosophy.
Free Will [prompt on partial answer]
Drug Addicts [accept equivalents]
Libertarianism
For 10 points each, answer these questions about branches of philosophy.
Jean-Paul Sartre wrote that “humanism” is equal to this other stance in philosophy. This philosophy emphasizes that humans should use their mortal freedom to create their own purpose.
This term refers to the unsatisfiable human desire to find inherent value in life. Albert Camus stated that humans should embrace this idea, while definitely continuing to search for meaning. Its name derives from a word meaning illogical.
This philosophical doctrine claims that nothing in life has intrinsic meaning or value. Although Friedrich Nietzsche is associated with this doctrine, he hated those who embraced it. In modern terms, it refers to the idea that life has no purpose.
Existentialism [accept word forms]
Absurdism [accept word forms]
Nihilism [accept word forms]
The social sciences are continuously being revised in light of progressive politics. For 10 points each:
Many notable schools of academic criticism stem from this political movement that has advocated for the rights of women. The third wave of this movement began in the 1990s after the so-called sex wars.
Central to feminist criticism is this conception of society where men hold institutional power over women. Contrary to popular belief, feminists believe that it oppresses both men and women.
Third-wave feminist criticism is notably fixated on this idea that personal identity is composed of overlapping categories of social identity that amplify the effects of systems of social discrimination.
Feminism [accept word forms]
Patriarchy
Intersectionality
Peter Singer is known as one of the most influential philosophers of our time. For 10 points each:
Name the branch of philosophy that analyzes what is right and wrong. Peter Singer made his name in its “applied” field.
Peter Singer published a monumental ethical tract arguing that this category of non-human entities deserves moral consideration as a result of their consciousness. PETA thinks it’s unethical to eat them.
Singer notably developed a “preference theory” to this school of moral philosophy first articulated by John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham.
Ethics
Animals
Utilitarianism
This philosopher argued that because “God is an absolutely perfect being,” then we can only do service to God by admiring his work in his <em>Discourse on Metaphysics</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher, who is probably most famous for developing calculus independent of Isaac Newton.
Leibniz believed that God is only concerned with preserving this concept within his subjects, concurring with his statement of “We live in the best of all possible worlds.” Utilitarians strive to maximize this concept among people.
Leibniz envisioned these indivisible entities that control all natural phenomena and people. The most powerful one of these entities controls the soul.
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
Happiness [accept word forms]
Monads
How can mirrors be real if our eyes aren’t real? For 10 points each, answer some questions about some notable philosophical issues.
Instances of this concept include the Ship of Theseus, where no original part of an object remains, and the statement that all Sicilians are liars, made by a Sicilian. This concept relates to any statement that contradicts itself.
This man showed there were contradictions in some of Georg Cantor’s formalizations. One specific paradox involved a set of all sets that are not members of themselves. This man also used the analogy of a teapot in space to refute the existence of God.
This Greek philosopher’s paradoxes include one about a tortoise maintaining a lead against Achilles in a race and one about an arrow that may or may not be in motion. This philosopher was also one of the first to use reductio ad absurdum as a method of proof.
Paradox [accept word forms]
Bertrand Russell
Zeno of Elea
Most philosophers of the Middle Ages utilized a method of critical thought called Scholasticism. For 10 points each, answer these questions about Scholastic philosophers.
This philosopher’s most famous text, Sic et Non, translated from Medieval Latin as “Yes and No,” addresses one hundred fifty-eight contradictions in Christian theology. He notably had an affair with Heloise.
This other philosopher is best known for his Summa contra Gentiles and his Summa Theologica. He is also known as “Doctor Angelicus” and “Doctor Communis.”
Proving the existence of this entity was the chief task of scholastic philosopher Anselm of Canterbury. Aquinas notably made five proofs for the existence of this figure.
Peter (or Pierre) Abelard
St. Thomas Aquinas
God
For 10 points each, answer these questions about pragmatism:
This American pragmatist defended theism in The Will to Believe and later contrasted tough-minded and tender-minded people in his 1907 work Pragmatism.
In Pragmatism, James describes an argument involving a man chasing this creature around a tree.
Neo-pragmatist Richard Rorty argues that the mind doesn’t serve as one of these things for objects in nature. These reflective surfaces are often used in self-awareness studies.
William James
squirrel
mirrors [or Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about people named Zeno:
Zeno of Elea famously described these types of problems. Examples of them include Achilles and the tortoise, and the arrow one.
The Zeno from this city was a pupil of Crates of Thebes. That man later rejected his teacher’s Cynicism and formed his own philosophy of Stoicism.
Zeno of Sidon is described by Cicero as a leading thinker in this school of thought. This school’s namesake preached a philosophy that aponia, or absence of pain, was desirable.
Paradoxes
Citium
Epicureanism &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the philosopher G.W F. Hegel:
In Hegel’s Science of this field of philosophy, he outlines his views on the study of deductive reasoning, which this field focuses on.
Marx devised a materialist form of this method often associated with Hegel. This process involves two opposing theses forming a synthesis.
This book, Hegel’s magnum opus, was said to be a bildungsroman by Jean Hyppolite. This book also introduces the master-slave dialectic.
Logic [or Science of Logic]
Dialectics
The Phenomenology of Spirit [or Phänomenologie des Geistes; or The Phenomenology of Mind] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer these questions about the philosophy of mind. For 10 points each:
This school of thought claims that mind and matter are separate categories. It suffers from the problem of interaction, and it can come in “property” or “substance” forms.
This philosopher defended substance dualism in Meditations on First Philosophy. This philosopher also stated, “I think, therefore I am,” in his Discourse on the Method.
One alternative to dualism and physicalism is this idea, which posits that all matter has consciousness qualities. David Chalmers proposed a similar theory in The Conscious Mind.
Dualism [or substance dualism; or property dualism]
Rene Descartes
Panpsychism &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
In one text, Immanuel Kant states that “judgments of taste” fall into this category. For 10 points each:
Name this subject of Kant’s Critique of Judgment. It is the philosophical study of beauty and art.
Kant defines this term as “what is absolutely great,” and distinguishes it from the beautiful. In a 1757 treatise, Edmund Burke called this concept the “strongest emotion.”
This author says that terror is sometimes mistakenly regarded as the sublime’s essence rather than its cause in his book The Sense of Beauty. This philosopher also wrote The Last Puritan and The Realms of Being.
Aesthetics
the Sublime [or the Beautiful and the Sublime]
George Santayana [or Jorge Agustín Nicolás Ruiz de Santayana] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
This analytic philosopher wrote “An Essay on the Foundations of Geometry,” but later rejected its contents. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker, who pointed out a critical flaw in Gottlob Frege’s Basic Law V [“vee”]. He later corrected that flaw of Frege’s system in a work co-written by Alfred North Whitehead.
Russell also wrote this oft-criticized work, which traces the historical details surrounding and ideas of philosophers he considered to “have considerable importance”.
Russell's essay “Why I am not a Christian” promotes this belief, that was further expanded in Dawkin’s The God Delusion.
Bertrand Russell
A History of Western Philosophy
Atheism [or being an Atheist; prompt on not believing in God] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
This entity can come in “a priori” or “a posteriori” forms. For 10 points each:
Name this subject matter of epistemology. Theories of it include empiricism and rationalism.
Alvin Goldman created a causal theory of knowledge to counteract these problems. These problems are used to refute the idea that knowledge is justified true belief.
This author created a character who addresses the regress problem. This Scottish empiricist wrote An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
Knowledge
Gettier problems
David Hume &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The Chinese room thought experiment involves false knowledge of one of these constructs. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs, two of which are interchanged in translation.
This philosopher formulated language-games and introduced his private language argument in his work Philosophical Investigations.
Wittgenstein’s private language argument names “memory” and “meaning” types of this philosophy. Pyrrho of Ellis and Sextus Empiricus were two ancient followers of this philosophical position.
languages
Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein
skepticism &lt;SAM&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following American philosophers:
This philosopher coined the term “stream of consciousness” in The Principles of Psychology and wrote about “a New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking” in Pragmatism.
William James was inspired by this author of How to Make Our Ideas Clear and The Fixation of Belief, who actually developed the philosophy of Pragmatism.
This Spanish-American philosopher wrote that philosophy begins “in medias res” in his book Scepticism and Animal Faith, and quipped that “Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it”.
William James
Charles Sanders Pierce
George Santayana &lt;SAM&gt;
This text introduced its author’s transcendental idealism. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical text, which contrasts analytic statements like “the object takes up space” with synthetic statements like “the object is heavy”, in addition to introducing the a priori-a posteriori distinction.
The Critique of Pure Reason, along with Critique of Practical Reason and Critique of Judgment, was written by this German philosopher, who formulated the categorical imperative.
Kant credited this philosopher with waking him from his “dogmatic slumber”. This Scottish philosopher discussed the is-ought problem in relation to morality in his book A Treatise of Human Nature.
Critique of Pure Reason
Immanuel Kant
David Hume &lt;SAM&gt;
Answer the following about the number four in philosophy. Four 10 points each:
This man named four idols that impede reasoning in his book Novum Organum. This father of empiricism popularized the scientific method.
The fourth part of this book puts forth four explanations for the Kingdom of Darkness, which threatens the Christian commonwealth.
Aristotle put forth four of these explanations for the motion of objects in his Physics and Metaphysics. The cosmological argument is also known as the argument from the first of these concepts.
Francis Bacon, Viscount St. Albans
Leviathan or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiastical and Civil
four causes &lt;SAM&gt;
Seneca the Younger wrote a series of letters to Lucilius about this philosophy. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophy founded by Zeno of Citium, which held that virtue alone was enough for happiness and advocated the control of emotions like anger and fear.
A set of Meditations on Stoicism was written by this Roman emperor while he was campaigning against Germanic tribes in Pannonia.
In Stoic physics, a “divine” form of this substance brings about order in the universe. Heraclitus believed that this substance is the most fundamental element.
Stoicism
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus
fire &lt;SAM&gt;
For 10 points each: answer the following about Willard Van Orman Quine:
Quine’s most famous paper attacks the analytic-synthetic distinction and reductionism, which he says are the “Two Dogmas of” this philosophy. This philosophy states that knowledge can only come from experience
According to the Duhem-Quine thesis, testing these statements requires auxiliary assumptions. In the scientific method, these statements are tested in experiments and can be given in an if/then format.
Quine formulated a system for this field called the New Foundations. Ernst Zermelo and Abraham Fraenkel developed one of several axiomatic systems for this field, and a paradox in this field is named for Bertrand Russell.
empiricism [accept word forms]
hypothesis
set theory &lt;SAM&gt;
Name some things that nineteenth-century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer liked, for 10 points each:
Schopenhauer really liked ancient philosophical texts, like the Vedas and Upanishads, from this present-day nation.
Schopenhauer was a fan of the idea that all of human nature and human desires could be linked to this concept, which he paired with representation in the title of a treatise. Nietzsche wrote about this thing “to power”.
Schopenhauer liked being right, and, in The Art of Being Right, he discussed petitio principii–or this logical fallacy. This form of circular reasoning uses the conclusion of an argument as proof for the premise.
Republic of India [or Bharat Ganarajya]
the Will [or will to power; or the will to live; do not accept or prompt on “free will”]
begging the question [prompt on circular reasoning or circular logic]
This man was the godfather of psychologist William James. For 10 points each:
Name this author of essays like “Self-Reliance” and “The Over-Soul” and the speech “The American Scholar.”
Emerson wrote about the transparent eyeball in a transcendentalist book-length essay praising this concept. Classically, literary conflicts are defined as man vs. man, man vs. self, and man vs. this entity.
“Self-Reliance” is the source of one of Emerson’s quote that one of these things is the “hobgoblin of little minds.” Emerson claims that possessing this faculty is worse than being misunderstood, like Pythagoras.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
nature [or “Nature”]
a “foolish consistency” [or word forms, such as being consistent]
Examples of these statements include “All quadrilaterals have four sides” or “All bodies take up space.” For 10 points each:
Name these statements which have the predicate contained with the concept of the subject. These statements are always a priori according to the Critique of Pure Reason, which contrasts them with synthetic statements.
This German Enlightenment thinker created the analytic-synthetic distinction and revolutionized philosophy in his three critiques.
This philosopher’s namesake “fork” proposes that all statements are either analytic a priori or synthetic a posteriori, with no possibility for synthetic a priori. This skeptic allegedly woke Kant from his “dogmatic slumber.”
analytic propositions [or analytic statements]
Immanuel Kant
David Hume
This work spends a lot of time discussing the concept of <em>ren</em>, which its author intends to mean “kindness” or “benevolence.” For 10 points each:
Name this tome written during the Warring States period, full of aphorisms like “Everything has beauty but not everyone sees it.”
The Analects were written by this ancient Chinese philosopher who emphasized respect to one’s family as an imperative.
Confucius’ teachings re-introduced this concept, similar to the absolutists’ divine right of kings. This concept proposed that the Chinese emperor would be granted legitimate rule by the gods, so long as he ruled fairly.
the Analects [or Lúnyǔ; or Edited Conversations]
Confucius [or Kong Fuzi]
Mandate of Heaven [or tienmang]
The main contention of this school was that virtue is sufficient for happiness, which implies that all non-sages are essentially slaves. For 10 points each:
Name this school of philosophy which emphasized living in harmony with nature. It suggested that only sages could be free from human emotions.
The Stoics embraced the classical form of this idea, that God is all-encompassing and is roughly equivalent with the entire universe. Baruch Spinoza famously embraced this idea, too.
Stoicism founder Zeno divided all of philosophy into physics, logic, and this topic, which was also the subject of a “geometrical” tract by Spinoza. This subject asks what is moral.
Stoicism
pantheism [or word forms]
ethics [prompt on morality]
This man created an book based on his <em>quinque viae</em>, or “five ways.” For 10 points each:
Name this scholastic friar who included his five philosophical arguments for the existence of God in his most famous work.
In Aquinas’ Summa Theologica, this thinker is referred to as “The Theologian.” He talked about stealing pears in his Confessions.
Aquinas refers to this thinker as “The Commentator” due to his extensive work replying to Aristotle’s writings. This Islamic philosopher responded to the work of Al-Ghazali in his The Incoherence of the Incoherence.
Saint Thomas Aquinas [or Tommaso d'Aquino; or Doctor Angelicus; or Doctor Communis]
Saint Augustine of Hippo [or Saint Austin]
Averroes [or Ibn Rushd]
The author decides it is better to be a Pericles than an Alcibiades or a John Knox in this work’s chapter on individuality. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical work which popularized the concept of the “tyranny of the majority." This book introduces the idea that power is given for leaders to ensure no citizen is unduly hurt by others, the harm principle.
On Liberty is a work by John Stuart Mill, who was a proponent of this school of thought formally created by Jeremy Bentham. It emphasizes taking the action that would most help the greatest amount of people.
In A System of Logic, Mill developed a set of namesake methods which helps with the experimental phase of this process. Francis Bacon put forth his namesake variant of this process in Novum Organum.
On Liberty
utilitarianism  [or word forms]
the scientific method [or science; or other word forms]
W.V.O. Quine published a paper establishing Two Dogmas of this philosophical doctrine. For 10 points each:
Name this view that holds that information can only be derived from sensory experience. This view and its opponent rationalism dominated early modern philosophy.
This English empiricist philosopher claimed that man, in the state of nature, comes together to form communities that protect personal property in his work, Two Treatises of Government.
Locke used this two-word Latin phrase is his work, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding to describe how the mind is born as a, “blank slate”.
empiricism
John Locke
tabula rasa
This work claims that time and space are recognizable only because of how our faculty of sensibility processes it, for 10 points each:
Name this work, which rejects Hume’s empiricism. This work uses the equation 7 + 5 = 12 to generalize that all pure mathematics is synthetic knowledge derived from a priori truths.
Critique of Pure Reason as well as Critique of Practical Reason, are both works by this German philosopher.
Kant wrote that the answer to this brief work’s title question was man’s emergence from self-imposed immaturity.
Critique of Pure Reason
Immanuel Kant
What is Enlightenment?
This thinker’s characters Cleanthes, Philo, and Demea discuss the rationality of religious belief in the <em>Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion</em>, for 10 points each:
Name this Scottish empiricist who awoke Kant from his “dogmatic slumber.” His copy principle asserts that ideas are the result of simple impressions.
Hume, in An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, seems to contradict his copy principle by conceding that a person could conceive a shade of this color which they had never before seen.
Philo, in the Dialogues, posits that this problem can be solved by regarding God as incomprehensible and not personifying Him; otherwise, because suffering exists, God must be morally neutral.
David Hume
blue
the problem of evil
This philosopher wrote a roman à clef about French intellectual life in her book <em>The Mandarins</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this French existentialist and feminist who addressed the paradoxes of radical freedom in The Ethics of Ambiguity.
Beauvoir’s most famous work is this two-volume landmark of first-wave feminism, which stated that "one is not born, but becomes, a woman."
This intermittent lover of Beauvoir used the example of a phony waiter to demonstrate his concept of “bad faith” in Being and Nothingness. He also wrote Existentialism and Humanism.
Simone de Beauvoir
The Second Sex [or Le Deuxieme Sexe]
Jean-Paul Sartre
Antisthenes is widely regarded as the founder of this school of thought through his advocacy of an austere life, for 10 points each:
Name this ancient philosophy, which held that people gained happiness by rejecting desires such as fame, money, and power. Today, it refers to people who hold a negative view of humans.
This philosopher propounded cynicism by living inside a ceramic jar on the streets of the marketplace in Athens. He famously carried around a lantern while asking for an honest man.
This other philosopher contrasted pleasure with suffering, and argued that the highest ethical behavior was to maximize pleasure and tranquility, ataraxia, and minimize bodily pain, aponia.
cynicism
Diogenes of Sinope
Epicurus
Thomas Jefferson’s <em>The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth</em>, which removed Christian dogma from the Bible, demonstrates tendencies towards this belief system, for 10 points each:
Name this theological position which maintains the existence of an uninvolved deity who created the world and gave humans the gift of reason, but stepped back afterward.
The Deist deity is often described as one of a member of this profession, to convey the idea of intelligent design.
This man first employed the watchmaker analogy in his work Natural Theology, during his articulation of the teleological argument for God.
Deism
watchmaker
William Paley
This work’s appendix is a critique of Kantian philosophy, particularly a critique of Kant’s changing the meaning of “noumenon,” for 10 points each:
Name this philosophical work with book titles such as Epistemology, Ontology, and Aesthetics. Its author paints pleasure as the instance of pain’s removal, an unfulfilled desire.
The World as Will and Representation is a work by this man, who also wrote The Art of Being Right and On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason.
Schopenhauer died in Frankfurt, which is in this modern-day nation.
The World as Will and Representation [accept Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung]
Arthur Schopenhauer
Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland]
An area in this field that concerns meaning is called semantics. For 10 points:
Name this academic field; pioneered by Saussure, that concerns the scientific study of language.
This work of numbered statements declared that the limits of language also describe the limits of the world. It begins with “The world is all that is the case” and includes “that which we cannot speak of, we must pass over in silence.”
This eccentric Austrian philosopher refuted many of his own claims in Tractatus through his work Philosophical Investigations.
linguistics
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
Ludwig Wittgenstein
This philosophy’s five key relationships include ruler-subject and older sibling-younger sibling. For ten points each:
Name this Chinese philosophy that originated during the Warring States period, whose founder’s sayings are collected in the Analects.
This other philosophy, propounded by Han Fei and Lord Shang, rejected the positive view of humans and favored harsh punishments on small crimes in order to institute social change.
This Confucian used the example of a child falling down a well to preach the innate goodness of human beings. He was also the architect of a major neo-Confucian revival.
Confucianism [accept Ruism]
Legalism
Mencius [accept Meng Ke, Meng-tzu, and Mengzi]
This philosopher argued that the creation of a society is based around the protection of property. For 10 points each:
Name this English natural rights philosopher who wrote Two Treatises of Government.
This two-word Latin phrase refers to Locke's idea that humans are born without innate knowledge, and that experiences color the blank slate of the mind.
Locke presents his idea of tabula rasa in this work, which also presents a distinction between "primary qualities" and "secondary qualities."
John Locke
tabula rasa
An Essay Concerning Human Understanding
Bonus: He used George Fox’s possible schizophrenia as an example of “medical materialism.” For ten points each:
Name this author of The Varieties of Religious Experience who examined the history of psychology in Principles of Psychology. He questioned whether or not a man was running around a squirrel in another work.
Along with Charles Peirce, William James is considered one of the founders of this school of philosophy which claims that the value of something is related to its practicality. James called it “A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking.”
This American pragmatist philosopher believed that learning should reward a “continued capacity for growth” and argued for a strong schooling system in his work, Democracy and Education.
William James
pragmatism [accept word forms like pragmatist philosophy]
John Dewey &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: Its authors chose not to list all non-intensional functions in one section since “life is too short.” For ten points each:
Name this three-volume work co-written by Alfred North Whitehead which aimed to use logic as a base for all mathematics. One of its sections attempts to prove the fact that one plus one equals two.
This thinker wrote Principia Mathematica and argued against churches in his essay, “Why I am Not a Christian.” He also discussed the statement, “the present king of France is bald” in his essay, “On Denoting.”
This philosopher who studied under Russell claimed that “what we cannot speak, we must pass over in silence” in Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. He argued that private language is impossible in Philosophical Investigations.
Principia Mathematica
Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell
Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: Amartya Sen wrote about the “Idea of” this concept, in which he argues that one should not think of the title quality in binary terms. For ten points each:
Identify this concept of moral righteousness that has “distributive” and “retributive” forms. One thinker equated it to fairness, describing it in a “veil of ignorance.”
This thinker wrote A Theory of Justice, in which he postulated several principles of justice, including liberty, equality, and the greatest help to the least-advantaged people, which he termed the “difference principle.”
John Rawls used the social contract theory to write A Theory of Justice, which was also used by this Genevan philosopher who wrote The Social Contract and Emile.
justice [accept equivalents like just behavior]
John Bordley Rawls
Jean-Jacques Rousseau &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: Its section “Of Miracles” provides reasons for why human testimony might be reliable. For ten points each:
Name this philosophical book about epistemology which discusses the “missing shade of blue” in its section “Of the Origin of Ideas.” It is a revision of its author’s earlier work, A Treatise of Human Nature.
This Scottish philosopher wrote An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding and discussed the “is-ought” problem.
David Hume also wrote a Natural History of and Dialogues Concerning the “natural” form of these systems of beliefs and practices, “organized” examples of which include Judaism and Islam.
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding
David Hume
religions &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: He stated “to be” means “to be perceived” in <em>A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge</em>. For ten points each:
Name this Irish immaterialist philosopher who wrote De Motu, a work describing motion, and Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous.
In Berkeley’s Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous, Hylas represents this philosopher, who postulated the concept of a “tabula rasa” and wrote An Essay Concerning Human Understanding.
Berkeley’s The Analyst is thought to be a direct attack on this English scientist’s conception of fluxions and infinitesimality. This scientist also wrote Opticks.
George Berkeley [BARK-lee]
John Locke
Sir Isaac Newton &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: It begins by contrasting the public torture of Robert-François Damiens and a prison in Mettray. For ten points each:
Name this work, subtitled “The Birth of the Prison,” which describes Bentham’s Panopticon and distinguishes between cellular, organic, genetic, and combinatory characteristics of individuality.
This French philosopher wrote Discipline and Punish and discussed the concept of “medical gaze” in his work, The Birth of the Clinic.
This other French philosopher was a proponent of existentialism and wrote Being and Nothingness. He also criticized Foucault’s book The Order of Things.
Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison [accept Surveiller et punir: Naissance de la Prison]
Paul-Michel Foucault
Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: The philosophical zombie is one thought experiment supporting this idea. For ten points each:
Name this theory opposed to monism, and which claims that the mind and body are separate entities.
One proponent of mind-body dualism was this man, who suggested that the soul interacted with the body in the pineal gland. He is better known for formulating the principle of “I think, therefore I am” in Discourse on Method.
In The Concept of Mind, Gilbert Ryle attacked Cartesian dualism by describing it with this phrase and claiming that Descartes committed a category mistake. This phrase also titles a book by Arthur Koestler.
mind-body dualism [accept word forms]
René Descartes
ghost in the machine &lt;BZ&gt;
You are arguing that all M&amp;Ms don't have the same flavor with a terrible arguer who thinks they do. For 10 points each:
Your adversary claims, "All M&amp;Ms are made of chocolate, and all chocolate has the same flavor, therefore all M&amp;Ms have the same flavor"--an example of these three-part statements first described by Aristotle.
In order to get the upper hand, your partner remarks, "Well, you've got a terrible sense of taste, and you have big feet." Such irrelevant, personal attacks, are often described by this two-word Latin phrase.
Your foe claims that, when he left out a bowl of M&amp;Ms, each color was equally depleted, so they must all have the same flavor. He's now making this fallacy: the belief that, if Event B follows Event A, Event A caused Event B.
syllogism
ad hominem
post hoc ergo propter hoc [do not accept or prompt on anything involving "correlation" or "causation"--no points are awarded if the answer is not given in Latin]
This phenomenon occurs "toward-death" and "in-the-world", and one form of it is defined as "this entity which each of us is himself." For 10 points each
Name this central concept of dasein (pr. DIE-ZIN). This word is paired with "time" in the title of a 1927 work of philosophy.
Martin Heidegger, the author of Being and Time, was a forerunner of this movement most notably espoused by Jacques Derrida in Of Grammatology. This form of criticism believes that there is "nothing outside the text."
Heidegger was a member of the Nazi Party, which infamously supported this movement. This movement believed the gene pool could be "purified" by selective breeding and sterilization.
being [or Sein]
deconstructionism [or Destruktion]
eugenics
This philosopher encouraged others to "dare to know" in his work "What is Enlightenment?" For 10 points each:
Name this German philosopher who examined a priori knowledge in his Critique of Pure Reason.
This philosopher gave a critique of Kant in the work Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics. This Nazi supporter proposed the concept of Dasein, or "existence," in Being and Time.
This other German philosopher argued for a difference in Kant's idea of the "thing-in-itself" and the "noumenon" in the work The World as Will and Representation.
Immanuel Kant
Martin Heidegger
Arthur Schopenhauer
This work attempted to derive a set of axioms that could be used to prove mathematical truths. For 10 points each:
Name this work of set theory and mathematical logic that was shown to have failed to fulfill its goal by GÃ¶del's Incompleteness Theorems. 
This British thinker wrote Principia Mathematica along with Alfred Whitehead; other works by him include "A History of Western Philosophy" and "Why I am not a Christian."
This work by Russell introduced the notion of definite and indefinite descriptions and made use of propositional functions in order to describe things. 
Principia Mathematica
Bertrand Russell 
On Denoting
This man claimed that "[s]ociety does not consist of individuals, but expresses the sum of interrelations, the relations within which these individuals stand." For 10 points each:
Name this man, whose writings inspired the theory of historical materialism.
Marx is known for this multi-volume treatise, which posits that the tendency of the rate of profit to fall leads to the exploitation of labor by employers to produce the title asset.
Marx collaborated with Friedrich Engels on this book, which was published in 1848. It condemned capitalism and famously contains the quote "Workers of the world, unite!"
Karl Heinrich Marx
Das Kapital
The Communist Manifesto [accept Das Kommunistische Manifest, Manifesto of the Communist Party, or Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei]
This work was later reissued by its author with an additional preface, An Attempt at Self-Criticism. For 10 points each:
Name this work which contrasts the Apollonian and Dionysian interpretations of a certain art form.
This work by the same author of The Birth of Tragedy first introduced the concept of the Ãœbermensch, which is described as the ultimate goal for humanity.
The Birth of Tragedy and Thus Spoke Zarathustra were both written by this German philosopher, who famously stated that "God is dead" in his The Gay Science.
The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music [accept Die Geburt der TragÃ¶die aus dem Geiste der Musik]
Thus Spoke Zarathustra: A Book for All and None [accept Also sprach Zarathustra: Ein Buch fÃ¼r Alle und Keinen]
Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche
This man attacked Christianity in his lecture "Why I Am Not A Christian." For 10 points each:
Name this English philosopher and mathematician who wrote the essay "On Denoting" and collaborated on another work with Albert Whitehead.
Russell and Whitehead produced this volume of mathematics that shares a name with a work written by Isaac Newton. It contains a proof of 1+1=2, with the commentary "the above proposition is occasionally useful."
An atheist, Russell attacked unfalsifiable claims of religion by stating that if he were to assert this kitchen object circled the Sun, no one could definitely disprove its existence either.
Bertrand Russell
Principia Mathematica
a teapot
For 10 points each, name some of the most famous Enlightenment philosophers:
This Scottish economist is best known for writing a work involving a pin factory and an invisible hand, The Wealth of Nations.
This French philosopher is best known for being the lead author/editor of the Encyclopédie. Catherine the Great of Russia was his patron.
This Italian philosopher is best known for his work denouncing torture and pushing for the abolition of capital punishment, On Crime and Punishments.
Adam Smith
Denis Diderot
Cesare Beccaria
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the progression of science:
This technique involves the proposal of a hypothesis and rigorous testing by experiment. It was advocated by Francis Bacon in hisNovum Organum.
This man is best known for his work on a maxim also known as the law of parsimony which suggests that when developing a hypothesis the simplest solution is the most likely.
This man's book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions described scientific change in terms of "paradigm shifts" that shook up established theories. Examples include the Copernican Revolution and the development of germ theory.
scientific method
William of Ockham (accept Ockham's Razor)
Thomas Kuhn
The study of this concept is titled epistemology. For 10 points each:
Identify this concept which may be understood as justified true belief. Solipsism holds that the possession of it outside one's own mind is unsure.
The experiment of putting this bodily organ in a vat also undermines the certainty of knowledge. In the experiment, a mad scientist sends false images to the neurons of this object, though it doesn't know that.
This philosopher and epistemologist claimed that knowledge was objective. He was also known for his political tract, The Open Society and Its Enemies.
knowledge
brain
Karl Popper
The first section of this work is a rebuttal of Robert Filmer's Patriarcha. For 10 points each:
Name this pair of works which argues that the title concept is formed by a contract between the people involved, who thus have the right to dissolve it when it acts against their interests.
Two Treatises of Government is a work by this English philosopher who said that the human mind begins as a tabula rasa, or blank slate, in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding.
In the Second Treatise, Locke stated that government was formed to protect a right to this entity, which a person gains by infusing their own labor into it.
Two Treatises of Government
John Locke
property (do not accept synonyms)
His book Ecce Homo contains chapters titled "Why I Am So Wise" and "Why I Am a Destiny." For 10 points each:
Name this German philosopher who said "God is dead" and related concepts like the ubermensch in his book Thus Spake Zarathustra.
In The Birth of Tragedy Nietzsche compares the more chaotic art of Dionysus to the art of this god, which is guided more by reason.
This Nietzsche work criticizes traditional Christian interpretations of morality. It was expanded upon in On the Genealogy of Moralsand was subtitled "Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future."
Friedrich Nietzsche
Apollo
Beyond Good and Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future
Mencius was one member of this school of thought. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophy formulated by a namesake Chinese philosopher which advocates filial piety. It was the state philosophy of the Han dynasty.
This collection of Confucius's sayings was compiled by his followers, and includes his descriptions of concepts such as the Golden Rule.
A key concept in Confucianism is this virtue of humaneness, or uprightness a human should exhibit. Its Chinese character is derived from the words for man and two.
Confucianism (accept word forms including Confucius)
Analects of Confucius (or Lunyu)
ren
Bonus: It distinguishes between the concepts of “present-at-handedness” and “ready-to-handedness” using the example of a hammer. For ten points each:
Name this philosophical work, which uses phenomenological ontology to analyze the concept of Dasein, which describes the awareness of human consciousness.
This German philosopher  joined the Nazi party soon after writing Being and Time. His other works include Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics and On the Way to Language.
This French philosopher read Heidegger’s Being and Time while a prisoner of war in World War II, and was inspired by it to write Being and Nothingness. He discussed the idea of “bad faith” in Existentialism is a Humanism.
Being and Time (or Sein und Zeit)
Martin Heidegger
Jean-Paul Sartre &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: He proposed a thought experiment in which people placed behind the “veil of ignorance” have no knowledge of their abilities or entitlements. For ten points each:
Name this American philosopher whose “original position” parallels the “state of nature”. He argued that inequalities in society should benefit the least advantaged, his “difference principle”.
Rawls described this concept as a combination of liberty and equality in a work titled [this] as Fairness. His A Theory of [this] was refuted by Robert Nozick in Anarchy, State, and Utopia, and it’s sometimes also defined as “giving each his due”.
This other philosopher discussed whether natural law permitted inequalities in his Discourse on the Origin of Inequality. He stated that “man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains” in The Social Contract.
John Rawls
justice
Jean-Jacques Rousseau &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: One of this philosopher’s most important theories was the idea of “Truth as Subjectivity”. For ten points each:
Name this Danish philosopher, author of The Sickness Unto Death and Fear and Trembling.
Some consider Kierkegaard to be the first philosopher from this movement, which claimed that the individual must be the starting point of philosophy. Other members of it included Simone de Beauvoir and Martin Heidegger.
This other Kierkegaard work focuses on two different life views, hedonistic and altruistic. The former is analyzed in its "Diary of a Seducer" section.
Søren Kierkegaard (accept Anti-Climacus, John the Silent, or Johannes de Silentio)
existentialism (accept word forms)
Either/Or (accept Enten-Eller) &lt;MM&gt;
Bonus: Husserl notes that we have too little memory to conceive of sufficiently high numbers in his <em>Philosophy of [this]</em>. For ten points each:
Identify this discipline, the foundations of which were written about by Gottlob Frege. That work attacks the notion that 7+5=12 is a synthetic statement.
This man had earlier analyzed the statement 7+5=12 in his Critique of Pure Reason. The most well-known formulation of his categorical imperative states that one should only do something if it should be done universally.
One of Kant’s essays is titled “What is [this word]?”, and defines it as “man’s emergence...from his immaturity.” This word also names a 17th and 18th century movement which emphasized scientific reasoning.
arithmetic (or Arithmetik)
Immanuel Kant
enlightenment (or Aufklarung) &lt;MS&gt;
, Bonus: It listed twelve rights of the sovereign in a section titled “Of Commonwealth”. For ten points each:
Name this work which describes life without a central government as a “war of all against all”. Its “Of Man” section describes the fear of violent death as the greatest evil.
This English philosopher and social contract theorist wrote that life in the state of nature was “nasty, brutish, and short” in  Leviathan. He also argued that an effective government must have absolute authority.
Hobbes rejected this philosophical movement originating with Aristotle and including such members as Peter Abelard, Thomas Aquinas, and William of Ockham.
Leviathan
Thomas Hobbes
scholasticism &lt;MiP+HX&gt;
 Bonus: One work titled after it claims that “Philosophy begins <em>in medias res</em>.” For ten points each:
Name this philosophical school of thought which sought ataraxia, or “freedom from worry”, and argued against absolute certainty in belief. One philosopher refuted it in a work titled [this] and Animal Faith.
This Spanish-American philosopher discussed the title concept “in religion” and “in common sense” in The Sense of Beauty and wrote Scepticism and Animal Faith as well as The Life of Reason.
Santayana famously wrote that “only the dead have seen the end of” this concept. Thomas Aquinas formulated criteria which make them just, and Kant’s Perpetual Peace posited that they wouldn’t happen between democracies.
skepticism
George Santayana
wars &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: He argued for the single transferable vote and proportional representation in <em>Considerations on Representative Government</em>. For ten points each:
Name this English philosopher whose feminist ideas were published in “The Subjection of Women”. He described his “harm principle” in On Liberty.
Along with Jeremy Bentham, Mill is known as a proponent of this ethical theory, which maintains that the moral course of action is the one which results in the greatest good for the greatest number.
The consequentialist utilitarian philosophy, which maintains that the ends justify the means, opposes this position of ethics, which considers intent and duty. This perspective would consider torturing a terrorist immoral, because torture is always immoral.
John Stuart Mill
utilitarianism
deontology (accept word forms) &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: It emphasized universal brotherhood and taught that a person of “moral and intellectual perfection” is free from destructive emotions. For ten points each:
Name this Hellenistic school of philosophy which advocated for self-control to think clearly. Its members included Marcus Aurelius, Cicero, and Seneca the Younger.
This founder of Stoicism rejected the cynicism of his teacher, Crates of Thebes. He declined Athenian citizenship in order to remain faithful to his native Citium.
Stoicism was opposed by this other Hellenistic school, which considered pleasure the highest and only good. Its members included Hermarchus and the Roman poet Lucretius.
Stoicism (accept word forms)
Zeno of Citium
Epicureanism (accept word forms) &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: Its section 4.31 is cited as the invention of truth tables. For ten points each:
Name this philosophical work comprised of seven propositions, such as “the world is everything that is the case” and “whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent.”
This Austrian philosopher wrote Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus and described the “beetle in a box” thought experiment in his posthumously published Philosophical Investigations.
Wittgenstein’s beetle is used to argue against the private type of this concept, an often verbal means of communication. Study of this concept encompasses such elements as grammar and semantics, or meaning.
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
Ludwig Wittgenstein
language &lt;HX&gt;
[missing]
 Name this Hellenistic school of philosophy which advocated for self-control to think clearly. Its members included Marcus Aurelius, Cicero, and Seneca the Younger.
 This founder of Stoicism rejected the cynicism of his teacher, Crates of Thebes. He declined Athenian citizenship in order to remain faithful to his native Citium.
 Stoicism was opposed by this other Hellenistic school, which considered pleasure the highest and only good. Its members included Hermarchus and the Roman poet Lucretius.
 Stoicism (accept word forms)
 Zeno of Citium
 Epicureanism (accept word forms)
[missing]
 Name this philosophical work comprised of seven propositions, such as "the world is everything that is the case" and "whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent."
 This Austrian philosopher wrote Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus and described the "beetle in a box" thought experiment in his posthumously published Philosophical Investigations.
 Wittgenstein's beetle is used to argue against the private type of this concept, an often verbal means of communication. Study of this concept encompasses such elements as grammar and semantics, or meaning.
 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
 Ludwig Wittgenstein
 language
[missing]
 Name this Danish philosopher, author of The Sickness Unto Death and Fear and Trembling.
 Some consider Kierkegaard to be the first philosopher from this movement, which claimed that the individual must be the starting point of philosophy. Other members of it included Simone de Beauvoir and Martin Heidegger.
 This other Kierkegaard work focuses on two different life views, hedonistic and altruistic. The former is analyzed in its "Diary of a Seducer" section.
Answer: Soren Kierkegaard (accept Anti-Climacus, John the Silent, or Johannes de Silentio)
Answer: existentialism (accept word forms)
Answer: Either/Or (accept Enten-Eller),
[missing]
 Identify this discipline, the foundations of which were written about by Gottlob Frege. That work attacks the notion that 7+5=12 is a synthetic statement.
 This man had earlier analyzed the statement 7+5=12 in his Critique of Pure Reason. The most well-known formulation of his categorical imperative states that one should only do something if it should be done universally.
 One of Kant's essays is titled "What is [this word]?", and defines it as "man's emergence...from his immaturity." This word also names a 17th and 18th century movement which emphasized scientific reasoning.
 arithmetic (or Arithmetik)
 Immanuel Kant
 enlightenment (or Aufklarung)
[missing]
 Name this English philosopher whose feminist ideas were published in "The Subjection of Women". He described his "harm principle" in On Liberty.
 Along with Jeremy Bentham, Mill is known as a proponent of this ethical theory, which maintains that the moral course of action is the one which results in the greatest good for the greatest number.
 The consequentialist utilitarian philosophy, which maintains that the ends justify the means, opposes this position of ethics, which considers intent and duty. This perspective would consider torturing a terrorist immoral, because torture is always immoral.
 John Stuart Mill
 utilitarianism
 deontology (accept word forms)
[missing]
 Name this philosophical work, which uses phenomenological ontology to analyze the concept of Dasein, which describes the awareness of human consciousness.
 This German philosopher  joined the Nazi party soon after writing Being and Time. His other works include Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics and On the Way to Language.
 This French philosopher read Heidegger's Being and Time while a prisoner of war in World War II, and was inspired by it to write Being and Nothingness. He discussed the idea of "bad faith" in Existentialism is a Humanism.
 Being and Time (or Sein und Zeit)
 Martin Heidegger
 Jean-Paul Sartre
[missing]
 Name this American philosopher whose "original position" parallels the "state of nature". He argued that inequalities in society should benefit the least advantaged, his "difference principle".
 Rawls described this concept as a combination of liberty and equality in a work titled [this] as Fairness. His A Theory of [this] was refuted by Robert Nozick in Anarchy, State, and Utopia, and it's sometimes also defined as "giving each his due".
 This other philosopher discussed whether natural law permitted inequalities in his Discourse on the Origin of Inequality. He stated that "man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains" in The Social Contract.
 John Rawls
 justice
 Jean-Jacques Rousseau
In What Is It Like to Be a Bat?, Thomas Nagel refuted the physicalist objection to this position which has predicate-based and property-based variants.  For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical position which asserts the independence of mental and physical phenomena.
This French philosopher and mathematician was a proponent of dualism.  He may be most famous for stating "I think, therefore I am" in his Discourse on Method.
In this work, Descartes uses the modal argument to advocate dualism and rejects Aristotle's qualitative physics.  It is divided into six of the title entities.
Dualism
Rene Descartes
Meditations on First Philosophy [accept Meditationes de Prima Philosophia]
The central character of this work responds to charges of corrupting the youth of Athens laid against him by proving Meletus's argument to be contradictory.  For 10 points each:
Name this work of philosophy in which Socrates is sentenced to death.
The Apology is a dialogue written by this student of Socrates who also wrote The Laws, Theaetetus, and The Republic.
In this other dialogue, Socrates seeks a definition of piety from the title character, whom he meets outside the courthouse and is prosecuting his own father.
The Apology
Plato
Euthyphro
In mathematics, the transitive property is a simple example of one of these.  For 10 points each: 
Name this logical argument in which the truth of a conclusion can be derived from the premises, exemplified by "A implies B, B implies C, therefore A implies C."
The syllogism can be contrasted with this form of reasoning in which empirical evidence provides a certain degree of support for a hypothesis based on it.
In this seminal work, Francis Bacon laid out his rule of certainty and liberty and presaged the scientific method with his inductive method.
Syllogism
Induction [accept Inductive Reasoning]
Novum Organum [accept The New Organon; accept The New Instrument]
This thinker's political works include Interventions and American Power and the New Mandarins.  For 10 points each: 
Name this MIT linguist and author of Cartesian Linguistics and Syntactic Structures.
Chomsky's hierarchy ranks "regular" and "context-free" types of these sets of rules which govern a language.  Academically, it is synonymous with the study of those rules.
This other linguist who studied under Franz Boas theorized relationships between shifts in phonetics and morphology called "drifts" in his book Language.
Noam Chomsky
Grammar
Edward Sapir
