For 10 points each—answer the following about zombies…in philosophy:
David Chalmers first proposed the idea of “philosophical zombies,” which look human but lack these subjective mental sensations. They include experiences like “seeing the color red” or “the taste of a delicious curry.”
Philosophical zombies have been used to argue both for and against this position, which holds that the mind and body are separate substances. It was most famously advocated by René Descartes.
Similarly, philosophers have argued that philosophical zombies are either impossible in this sense or only possible in this sense. This subject concerns the truth of statements like “if A, then B, given C.”
qualia
substance dualism
logic &lt;AF&gt;
This is probably the only school of philosophy named after a porch. For 10 points each:
Name this Hellenistic school of philosophy, which aims to minimize destructive emotions by keeping the will in accordance with nature. Seneca used this philosophy to remain calm and emotionless while committing suicide.
The Stoic philosopher Epictetus was fond of insulting his listeners and readers by calling them this derisive term, which is slightly ironic given Epictetus’s own biography.
This Roman Stoic compiled his thoughts in a work called the Meditations, which focus heavily on self-improvement through developing a “cosmic perspective.”
Stoicism [accept word forms]
slave
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus [accept either underlined part] &lt;JW&gt;
This philosopher theorized that human freedom originates in “natality” at birth. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher, who, in a 1951 book, used Kant’s notion of “radical evil” to discuss those who attempt to exterminate “superfluous people.”
Arendt, like her friend Walter Benjamin, was a member of this religion, whose other philosophers include Moses Mendelssohn and Maimonides.
This tradition of Jewish mystical philosophy is often considered in opposition to Maimonides’s Aristotelianism. A scholar of this tradition named Gershom Scholem criticized Arendt for her book Eichmann in Jerusalem.
Hannah Arendt (That book is The Origins of Totalitarianism.)
Judaism [or Jewish]
Kabbalah &lt;JR&gt;
This philosopher’s <em>Discourse on Method</em> was originally a preface to books on optics, geometry, and meteorology. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th-century French philosopher, who demonstrated his own existence with the proof “I think, therefore I am.”
Descartes seems to have failed to respond to a 1643 letter in which this European princess pointed out that he had no real way to explain how mind and body interact.
Descartes, like Spinoza and Leibniz, is often given this label, since their philosophies emphasize deduction from first principles. This label is contrasted with empiricism, which proceeds via induction.
René Descartes
Princess Elisabeth of Bohemia
rationalism &lt;JW&gt;
In one work, the “procedural” variety of this concept is classified as perfect, imperfect, or pure based on whether an independent criterion for fairness exists and whether fairness itself can be achieved. For 10 points each:
Name this legal concept equated by a philosopher with “fairness” in a work concerning A Theory of [it]. This concept is often symbolized by a blindfolded lady holding a scale.
This American philosopher discussed the problem of distributive justice in his essay “Justice as Fairness” as well as his landmark 1971 work A Theory of Justice.
Rawls constructed this thought experiment in which participants in the title situation decide principles of justice together. Crucially, those participants are separated from society by a veil of ignorance.
justice
John Rawls
the original position &lt;Yue, Philosophy&gt;
This construct features two sections corresponding to visible things and their likenesses, which contrast ones’ illusions of our ordinary experiences and our beliefs about physical objects in those experiences. For 10 points each:
Name this construct featured prominently in Plato’s Republic. This construct also contains the two contrasting sections of Thought and Understanding in its representation of the intelligible world.
After discussing the Analogy of the Divided Line, Socrates makes an allegory about one of these places. Chained people in one of these places can only see projected shadows and thus take those shadows as their reality.
This other philosopher analogized the cave as a human mind to define the Idols of the Cave, one of four idols published in his Novum Organum. That work offered an early defense of the modern scientific method.
the Divided Line
a cave
Francis Bacon &lt;Yue, Philosophy&gt;
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel established the “original,” “reflective,” and “philosophical” variants of this field in a series of “Lectures on the Philosophy” of this field at the University of Berlin. For 10 points each:
Name this academic field. A Francis Fukuyama essay proclaims “the end of” this concept, which signifies “the end point of mankind's ideological evolution,” and Hegel proclaimed that Africa did not possess this concept.
Fukuyama attributes “the end of history” to the denouement of this conflict, which was marked by “the ultimate triumph of Western liberal democracy” and the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
Fukuyama repudiated this ideology, whose “legacy” he examined in America at the Crossroads. Irving Kristol was the “godfather” of this ideology, whose other practitioners include Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney.
history
the Cold War
neoconservativism (accept word forms; accept neocon; prompt on conservatism) &lt;R. Li, Philosophy&gt;
This place is considered an example of a “heterotopia” in one work, which argues that it maximizes the docility of its constituents. For 10 points each:
Name this place that exemplifies an “unequal gaze” according to a book that opens with a description of the last days of Robert-François Damiens.
This French philosopher criticized Jeremy Bentham’s Panopticon as a “mechanism of power” in his book Discipline and Punish. He discussed the “medical gaze” in his book The Birth of the Clinic.
Alexis de Tocqueville’s visit to America to examine its prison system inspired the publication of his book titled [this system of government] in America. In that work, he discussed the danger of a “tyranny of the majority.”
the Panopticon (prompt on a prison)
Michel Foucault
a democracy &lt;Yue, Philosophy&gt;
One philosopher from this country names a hypothesis that “astoundingly mediocre” researchers contribute the most to scientific advancements, an assertion found in his <em>The Revolt of the Masses</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country where another philosopher stated that “consciousness is a disease” and differentiated between naive faith and scientific reason in The Tragic Sense of Life.
This Spanish philosopher declared that “philosophy must begin in medias res” in Skepticism and Animal Faith. He notably asserted that “those who cannot remember the past are doomed to repeat it.”
This American thinker also discussed ideas of faith and reason in The Varieties of Religious Experience, though he is best known for developing the philosophy of pragmatism.
Spain
George Santayana
William James &lt;Yue, Philosophy; Finals&gt;
Frank Jackson’s epiphenomenalism is a “property” variant of this philosophical position, which was defended with the idea that “animal spirits” are located in the pineal gland in one work. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical position explained using the example of a piece of beeswax in the “clear and distinct” argument in that same work.
This man discussed the mind-body problem and proposed the position of dualism to resolve it in Meditations on First Philosophy. He famously declared that “I think, therefore I am” in his Discourses on Method.
This philosopher declared that “consciousness makes the mind-body problem really intractable” in one of his essays, which influenced Jackson’s epiphenomenalism. That essay asks, “What is it Like to Be a Bat?”
mind–body dualism
René Descartes
Thomas Nagel &lt;Yue, Philosophy&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about water in early philosophy:
This man believed that the origin of nature and matter was water. Aristotle considered him to have been the first Greek philosopher.
This other early Greek philosopher is most famous for his statement “panta rhei,” which is translated either literally as “everything flows” or figuratively as “no man steps in the same river twice.”
Thales, Heraclitus, and other early Greek philosophers are often categorized as having been “pre-” this man. This teacher of Plato is told of the association between water and icosahedra by the namesake of the Timaeus.
Thales of Miletus
Heraclitus
Socrates [accept Pre-Socratic philosophers or Socratic method] &lt;AF&gt;
The central chapters of one of this philosopher’s books discuss “labor,” “work,” and “action,” which are all central to the life of activity. For 10 points:
Name this Jewish philosopher who contrasted the vita activa with the vita contemplativa in the 1958 book The Human Condition.
In 1951, Arendt published an analysis of the “origins” of this form of government, in which the state controls the public and private lives of its citizens. Arendt’s examples included the Third Reich and the Soviet Union.
Arendt studied and had an affair with this German philosopher, but was devastated when he turned out to be a huge Nazi. This man used the concept of Dasein [dah-ZEYN] to try to understand the nature of “Being” for humans.
Hannah Arendt [or Johanna Arendt]
totalitarianism
Martin Heidegger &lt;HK&gt;
This man’s unfinished late writings were published in volumes like <em>On</em> <em>Certainty</em> and <em>Remarks</em> <em>on</em> <em>Colours</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this logician and philosopher whose studies with Bertrand Russell culminated in his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
One of Wittgenstein’s later ideas is often summarized by saying that, for a word, this property “is use,” as opposed to being fixed in advance by authorities. Semantics is the study of this property of words.
Wittgenstein’s ideas on semantics were similar to those of this earlier thinker, who distinguished “language” from “speech” and “signifiers” from the “signified.” He coined the terms “synchronic” and “diachronic.”
Ludwig (Josef Johann) Wittgenstein
meanings [prompt on definitions]
Ferdinand de Saussure &lt;JW&gt;
This philosopher posited four “causes,” two of which—matter and form—are the basis for his doctrine of “hylomorphism.” For 10 points each:
Name this Greek philosopher who studied with Plato.
Aristotle uses this word to refer to his concept of a “final” cause.
Aristotle’s major theoretical discussion of the four causes appears in this text. This book gives its name to a field usually divided into epistemology and ontology.
Aristotle [or Aristoteles of Stagira]
telos [accept teleology]
Metaphysics &lt;JW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the philosophy of Baruch Spinoza.
Spinoza thought that there was only one substance, which he identified with both nature and God. That monism was in opposition to this position most famously held by René Descartes.
Spinoza’s Ethics was modeled after the kinds of proofs Euclid used in this branch of mathematics.
Spinoza held that there were this many kinds of knowledge. The American philosopher Charles Sanders Peirce [“purse”] generally came up with concepts in sets of this number.
substance dualism [or Cartesian dualism]
geometry
three [accept Peircian trichotomy or triad] (The types are imagination, reason, and intuition.) &lt;JR&gt;
This philosopher claimed that there could be a teapot orbiting the Sun somewhere between Earth and Mars. For 10 points each:
Name this British logician who taught Ludwig Wittgenstein and is considered one of the founders of analytic philosophy.
In an attempt to create a complete logical basis for mathematics, Russell co-wrote this three-volume work along with A. N. Whitehead, though their attempts were proved to be futile when Gödel published his incompleteness theorem a few decades later.
Russell also wrote this essay in 1905 which discussed definite and indefinite descriptions, exemplified by the statement, “The present king of France is bald.”
Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell
Principia Mathematica
“On Denoting” &lt;McMaken&gt;
This philosopher was known for writing a non-Sun-Tzu <em>Art of War</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian thinker who may be more famous for writing the line, “it is better to be feared than loved.”
One of Machiavelli’s more famous works is this one which focuses on the first 10 books of Ab Urbe Condita. He portrayed Rome and other old civilizations as a model for the politics of his time.
In Discourses, Machiavelli discusses the difference between religion and this concept. He argues that while religion was man made, this concept existed naturally.
Niccolò Machiavelli
Discourses on Livy
fortune &lt;Yoshida&gt;
The platform Moral Machine was created by MIT Media Lab to help autonomous vehicles with this scenario. For 10 points each:
Name this thought experiment in which you have to decide whom to kill by a switchtrack for the namesake runaway vehicle.
If you have the choice to switch a track for a runaway trolley heading towards a group of five murderers so that it instead kills one innocent bystander, proponents of this ethical theory like Henry Sidgwick would say that it is obligatory to switch the track regardless of innocence, because five is greater than one.
The choice to push a fat man into the track to stop the trolley and save five lives at the expense of one explores this principle, which states that you may take action which has bad side effects, but deliberately intending harm is wrong even if for good causes.
trolley problem
utilitarianism
doctrine of double effect &lt;McMaken&gt;
This man wrote under pseudonyms like Captain Scipio and Johannes de Silentio to separate himself from his ideas. For 10 points each:
Name this Danish philosopher who wrote the works The Concept of Anxiety and Either/Or.
Kierkegaard contrasts the Knight of Faith with the Knight of Infinite Resignation in this work which discusses Abraham’s sacrifice of his son Isaac and asks, “Is there a teleological suspension of the ethical?” This work is named for a line from Philippians 2:12.
Kierkegaard’s three stages on life’s way are the aesthetic, the ethical, and this third stage which he considered to be the highest plane of existence. In this stage, one is ruled by “total faith in God.”
Søren Kierkegaard
Fear and Trembling [or Frygt og Bæven]
religious &lt;McMaken&gt;
This man argued that “philosophers have only interpreted the world, the point is to change it.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who developed the ideas of dialectical materialism. Along with Friedrich Engels, he wrote The Communist Manifesto.
Marx’s writings had a great effect on this Martinican philosopher. He discussed the dehumanization of indigenous peoples in Black Skins, White Masks.
Fanon’s book Wretched of the Earth discusses violence as a means of ending this process. This process, central to much of Fanon’s work, refers to when a country acquires political control over another country and exploits it economically.
Karl Marx
Frantz Fanon
colonialism (accept colonization and word forms; prompt on imperialism) &lt;Huang&gt;
A philosopher from this country employed many pseudonyms in writing his works, which included Victor Eremita, Judge William, and Johannes de Silentio. For 10 points each:
Name this home of the early existentialist philosopher Soren Kierkegaard. He finished his work Either/Or in its city of Copenhagen.
Kierkegaard wrote this work, which discusses Abraham’s sacrifice of Isaac. In this work, Abraham is described as a “knight of faith,” which is contrasted with the “knight of infinite resignation.”
Kierkegaard argued that Abraham’s sacrifice could be justified through this concept. The first problema of Fear and Trembling asks whether this concept exists.
Denmark
Fear and Trembling
teleological suspension of the ethical (accept word forms of teleological such as teleologic) &lt;Huang&gt;
These events occur in between periods of “puzzle-solving” and “normalcy” and will change a set of “exemplars” according to one work. For 10 points each:
Name these events that cause the titular revolutions in Thomas Kuhn’s magnum opus, which are exemplified by the Copernican Revolution and the discovery of atomic theory.
Kuhn’s analysis of paradigm shifts is a prominent theory in the philosophy of this generic field of knowledge with subjects like physics and chemistry, defined by falsifiable experiments according to Karl Popper.
This early pioneer of the scientific method described four idols that impede proper inductive reasoning in Novum Organum, and described a logical system that tried to replace Aristotle’s Organon.
paradigm shifts (prompt on but do NOT reveal scientific revolutions)
science
Sir Francis Bacon &lt;Yue&gt;
In the Dialectic of “this movement,” Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer discussed how fascism arose from this progressive ideology. For 10 points each:
Name this eighteenth century European movement that emphasized the use of reason. Its members included Voltaire and Rousseau.
This Frenchman who lived during the Enlightenment period wrote about laws in his treatise The Spirit of the Laws. He is known for advocating for the separation of powers.
Montesquieu satirized the customs of Europe in this work, which is told from the point of view of two foreigners. It includes the myth of the troglodytes.
Age of Enlightenment
Baron de Montesquieu [“MON-tes-kew”]
Persian Letters &lt;Huang&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about thought experiments.
In his “Twin Earth” thought experiment, Hilary Putnam imagines a planet identical to Earth except for a different chemical version of this substance. In the “Buridan’s bridge” sophism, Socrates creates a paradox by telling Plato “you will throw me into” this substance.
This philosopher imagined an identical copy of him being assembled via lightning bolt in his “Swampman” thought experiment. This former UC Berkeley professor was well-known for his “truth-conditional” perspective of semantics.
This figure lends his name to a thought experiment similar to “Swampman” in which his “ship” is replaced plank by plank. This hero fell in love with Ariadne and slayed the Minotaur in a certain myth system.
water
Donald Davidson
Theseus &lt;R. Li&gt;
These entities are “rigid designators” according to one work, which notes that these things differ from definite descriptions because of their modal profiles. For 10 points each:
Identify these entities titling a Saul Kripke work that attacks a descriptivist theory of them, using sentences like “water is H2O” as examples.
Kripke’s Naming and Necessity attacks this thinker’s theory of names, described in a paper concerning the meanings of phrases like “the author of Waverley” and “the present King of France,” “On Denoting.” This man collaborated on a more famous work with Alfred North Whitehead.
Russell worked primarily in this branch of philosophy, which studies arguments and their structures. Syllogisms and deductive reasoning are used in this field. Common types of “fallacies” in this field include the straw man and ad hominem.
names (accept proper names)
Bertrand Russell
logic &lt;Yue&gt;
The Inquisition did not allow this man to title one of his works <em>Dialogue on the Ebb and Flow of the Sea</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this author who wrote a work in which Salviati and Simplicio engage in an intellectual debate.
Galileo built upon the work of this earlier Polish astronomer who suggested a heliocentric worldview in his On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres.
An early supporter of Copernicus was this Dominican friar, who was unfortunately burned at the stake in 1600.
Galileo Galilei (accept either underlined portion)
Nicolaus Copernicus
Giordano Bruno (or Filippo Bruno) &lt;Suh&gt;
Michel Foucault’s <em>The Order of Things</em> begins with an analysis of the one of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these objects that according to a Walter Benjamin work lose their “aura” or cultural context upon reproduction.
Benjamin was a philosopher from this country. The school of thinkers in this country that Benjamin belonged to was named for the Goethe University Frankfurt.
This member of the Frankfurt School critiqued the consumerism and technological rationality of twentieth-century society in his work One-Dimensional Man.
works of art (accept synonyms; accept paintings)
Germany
Herbert Marcuse &lt;Yue&gt;
This work declares, “The man who renounces himself, comes to himself.” For 10 points each:
Identify this speech given to six students in 1838. It sparked backlash for its perceived atheism, including critiques of the church and the ideas of a universal soul and moral intuition, allowing individual connection to God.
The Divinity School Address emphasizes points brought up by this other work by the same author. In this transcendentalist essay, too few appreciate the title thing, and the author describes himself as a “transparent eyeball.”
“The Divinity School Address” and “Nature” are both by this transcendentalist author of “The American Scholar” and “Self-Reliance,” who was a friend of Henry David Thoreau.
“The (Harvard) Divinity School Address” [accept descriptive answers; prompt on anything just about schools, universities, or Harvard]
“Nature”
Ralph Waldo Emerson &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the work of philosopher David Lewis.
Lewis is best known for his theory that all possible ones of these things exist concretely, a view called modal realism. Gottfried Leibniz thought we were living in “the best of all possible” ones of these things.
A critique of Lewis’s modal realism put forth by Saul Kripke argues that a participant in one of these events only cares about the result that occurs in their own world. Arrow’s impossibility theorem concerns these events.
A 1973 book by Lewis examined these statements, such as “Had I made that shot our team would have won the game,” in modal realist terms, and argued statements are necessarily true if they are true in all possible worlds.
worlds [accept reality or realities; accept universes; begrudgingly accept the best of all possible worlds; prompt on outcomes and equivalents]
presidential elections [accept votes or voting]
counterfactuals [or counterfactual conditionals; accept counterfactual statements] &lt;CL&gt;
A movement named for a “new” version of this belief is supported by Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins and argues that religion should not be tolerated. For 10 points each:
Name this belief that a God or gods do not exist.
One argument for atheism was developed by Bertrand Russell and argues that just because one cannot disprove the idea that one of these objects orbits the Sun does not mean he should expect anyone to believe so without proof.
This French philosopher was a prominent atheist during the Enlightenment and wrote works opposing religion such as The System of Nature. He also worked with Denis Diderot on the Encyclopédie.
atheism [accept word forms]
teapot [accept Russell’s teapot]
Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d’Holbach [accept Paul Heinrich Dietrich] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions relating to thought experiments about things in other things.
Erwin Schrödinger theorized about one of these animals in a confined space which could be simultaneously both alive and dead.
This Austrian author of Philosophical Investigations developed the Beetle in a Box thought experiment based on the idea of subjective experiences, especially pains, as existing in reality only in solitary minds.
This philosopher developed a new interpretation of the Brain in a Vat thought experiment. He wrote “The Meaning of ‘Meaning’” and also developed the Twin Earth thought experiment.
Schrödinger’s cat [or feline or domestic cat or house cat or F.s. catus; accept Katze]
Ludwig (Josef Johann) Wittgenstein
Hilary (Whitehall) Putnam &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the work of philosopher David Lewis.
Lewis is best known for his theory that all possible ones of these things exist concretely, a view called modal realism. Gottfried Leibniz thought we were living in “the best of all possible” ones of these things.
A critique of Lewis’s modal realism put forth by Saul Kripke argues that a participant in one of these events only cares about the result that occurs in their own world. Arrow’s impossibility theorem concerns these events.
A 1973 book by Lewis examined these statements, such as “Had I made that shot our team would have won the game,” in modal realist terms, and argued statements are necessarily true if they are true in all possible worlds.
worlds [accept reality or realities; accept universes; begrudgingly accept the best of all possible worlds; prompt on outcomes and equivalents]
presidential elections [accept votes or voting]
counterfactuals [or counterfactual conditionals; accept counterfactual statements] &lt;CL&gt;
A movement named for a “new” version of this belief is supported by Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins and argues that religion should not be tolerated. For 10 points each:
Name this belief that a God or gods do not exist.
One argument for atheism was developed by Bertrand Russell and argues that just because one cannot disprove the idea that one of these objects orbits the Sun does not mean he should expect anyone to believe so without proof.
This French philosopher was a prominent atheist during the Enlightenment and wrote works opposing religion such as The System of Nature. He also worked with Denis Diderot on the Encyclopédie.
atheism [accept word forms]
teapot [accept Russell’s teapot]
Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d’Holbach [accept Paul Heinrich Dietrich] &lt;CL&gt;
This thinker’s lesser known work includes translations of histories of the Peloponnesian War. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker who also wrote a history of the English Civil Wars entitled Behemoth. He also wrote a work which describes life as “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.”
Thomas Hobbes is most famous for writing this book of political philosophy which argues for absolute power vested in a single sovereign, a crucial early work in the theory of social contracts.
Hobbes used this two word phrase, meaning “greatest evil,” to refer to the fear of death, but rejected the existence of its opposite, the greatest good.
Thomas Hobbes (of Malmesbury)
Leviathan or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common-Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil
summum malum [do not accept or prompt on “summum bonum”] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions relating to thought experiments about things in other things.
Erwin Schrödinger theorized about one of these animals in a confined space which could be simultaneously both alive and dead.
This Austrian author of Philosophical Investigations developed the Beetle in a Box thought experiment based on the idea of subjective experiences, especially pains, as existing in reality only in solitary minds.
This philosopher developed a new interpretation of the Brain in a Vat thought experiment. He wrote “The Meaning of ‘Meaning’” and also developed the Twin Earth thought experiment.
Schrödinger’s cat [or feline or domestic cat or house cat or F.s. catus; accept Katze]
Ludwig (Josef Johann) Wittgenstein
Hilary (Whitehall) Putnam &lt;CL&gt;
This man’s teachings are compiled in the <em>Analects</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this Chinese philosopher whose namesake school of thought includes five key relationships and the value of filial piety.
This scholar, known as the “second Sage,” elaborated on Confucianist ideas and argued that human nature is good. This man’s mother is often used as an ideal for Chinese women.
Mencius argued for innate goodness in people by describing a child performing this action, an example used to illustrate the Four Beginnings.
Confucius [accept Confucianism]
Mencius [accept Mengzi; accept Meng Ke or Meng Ko; prompt on Meng; do not accept “Micius” or “Mo Zi”]
falling down a well [accept equivalents; prompt on partial; prompt on getting an injury and equivalents] &lt;CL&gt;
Alexis de Tocqueville was sent to the United States to study these institutions. For 10 points each:
Identify these institutions used to house convicted criminals.
This thinker wrote about prisons in Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison, later revising his ideas in Security, Territory, Population. He also wrote The History of Sexuality.
In The History of Sexuality, Foucault argues in the chapter “The Repressive Hypothesis” that this movement led to more discussion of sexuality, albeit in very specific settings with many rules.
prisons [accept penitentiary or penitentiaries; prompt on jails]
(Paul-)Michel Foucault
the Catholic Counter-Reformation [accept Catholic Reformation; accept Catholic Revival; prompt on Roman Catholicism; do not accept or prompt on “Reformation” alone] &lt;CL&gt;
The maxim of this school of thought states, “Consider the practical effects of the objects of your conception. Then, your conception of those effects is the whole of your conception of the object.” For 10 points each:
Identify this philosophical school of thought developed by Charles Sanders Peirce (“purse”), William James, and John Dewey.
Pragmatism was heavily influenced by the conversations of an 1872 philosophical club named for this adjective. This adjective is also used to describe a group of poets in the 1600s which included John Donne.
According to William James, pragmatism began with a group of Peirce (“purse”) essays including one about “How to” do this specific thing, which argues that doing this thing does not necessitate truth.
pragmatism [accept word forms]
metaphysical [accept the Metaphysical Club or the metaphysical poets or the metaphysics]
make our ideas clear [accept word forms; accept “How to Make Our Ideas Clear”; prompt on partial] &lt;CL&gt;
This dialogue, which takes its name from the Latin for ‘public affair’, contains an extended discussion on the definition of justice, for 10 points each:
Name this dialogue, which contains the Allegory of the Cave and lays out four forms of government, including timocracy.
Plato wrote Republic to represent the views of this speaker and thinker, who was sentenced to death by drinking hemlock.
Another of Socrates’ dialogues is this one, in which Socrates tells his eponymous friend that two wrongs do not make a right, rejecting his friend’s attempts to break him out of prison.
The Republic
Socrates
Crito
Answer the following about a philosophy that developed during the “Hundred Schools of Thought” period in China. For 10 points each:
This philosopher’s namesake school emphasized the importance of morality and social relationships, and his teachings were compiled in The Anelects.
This ideology emerged after the warring states period and reached its peak under the Qin dynasty, emphasizing increased order, security, and stability through laws and standards.
This school was best known for its concept of “impartial care,” which rivaled the Confucian notion of filial piety, and its administrative thought was eventually absorbed by Legalism.
Confucius
Legalism
Mohism
This philosopher’s deep love for and broken engagement with Regine Olsen were great influences on his writings. For 10 points each:
Name this Danish philosopher, regarded as the first existentialist. He frequently wrote pseudonymously, using Johannes de Silentio for Fear and Trembling and Johannes Climacus for Philosophical Fragments.
Kierkegaard’s first work was this one, written under the pseudonym Victor Eremita. It includes sections titled “Diary of a Seducer”, “Crop Rotation”, and “Diapsalmata”.
In Either/Or, Kierkegaard names this emotional state the root of all evil. He proposes the government of Denmark throw one large party every day of the year to eradicate this state.
Søren Aabye Kierkegaard
Either/Or [or Enten-Eller]
boredom [accept word forms]
This philosopher argued that mental states were connected to environments by using the sentences “It’s five o’clock here” and “It’s five o’clock on the sun.” For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian philosopher and student of Bertrand Russell who published Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
Wittgenstein formulated the idea of these entities, which he claimed “can be known only to the speaker; to his immediate...sensations” but argued did not exist with the “beetle in the box”.
The private language argument appears in this posthumously published work by Wittgenstein, which also includes a thought experiment involving five red apples.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
private language(s) argument [prompt on partial answer]
Philosophical Investigations
Immanuel Kant said that this philosopher woke him from his “dogmatic slumber”, for 10 points each:
Name this Scottish empiricist who seemed to contradict himself with his missing shade of blue thought experiment in An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
Hume adapted An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding from this earlier treatise which contains the is-ought problem and is divided into Of the Understanding, Of the Passions, and Of the Morals.
In A Treatise of Human Nature, Hume categorizes these things into impressions and ideas and between the simple and complex types of this concept. Unlike intuition, they are immediate matters of fact.
David Hume
A Treatise of Human Nature
mental perceptions
In order to define his concept of <em>Eudaimonia</em>, this thinker contrasted <em>Energeia</em>, or activity, with <em>Hexis</em>, or character. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Greek thinker, who hailed from the city of Stagira. The contributions of this student of Plato to mankind include Nicomachean and Eudemian Ethics.
This Andalusian Muslim scholar was given the sobriquet “the Commentator” for his revisions of Aristotle’s works. He also wrote The Incoherence of the Incoherence.
In Incoherence, Averroes defends the Hellenistic type of this study, on which Islamic Neoplatonism was founded, from theologian Al-Ghazali’s critiques.
Aristotle
Averroes [or Ibn Rushd]
philosophy
Answer the following about pre-Socratic philosophers. For 10 points each:
This philosopher’s school at Croton taught asceticism. He is the namesake for a right triangle theorem stating that a2+b2=c2.
This philosopher stated that fire was the fundamental element and that “logos” was the origin of all things. He also famously claimed that “no man ever steps in the same river twice.”
In “the way of truth,” a section of this thinker’s poem On Nature, this founder of the Eleatic school claimed that change was impossible, existence was timeless, and reality was one.
Pythagoras of Samos
Heraclitus of Ephesus
Parmenides of Elea
This man argued that part of the joy of being in heaven was watching sinners burn in hell. For 10 points each:
Name this Medieval philosopher. He less incendiarily proposed five arguments for the existence of God in his “Summa”.
Aquinas developed theories on which circumstances involved justly taking this action. Sun Tzu wrote a famous treatise called the Art of [this action].
Some modern political theories like offensive realism treat war as a necessity given state actors operate in this kind of system. Other more optimistic theorists like Alexander Wendt say “[this system] is what states make of it.”
Thomas Aquinas
war
anarchy (accept word forms) &lt;Jin&gt;
This man began his most famous work by stating that a “Spectre is haunting Europe.” For 10 points each:
Name this thinker, who along with Friedrich Engels wrote Das Kapital and the Communist Manifesto.
Marx, along with Max Stirner and Ludwig Feuerbach, were members of this group of thinkers, named after the thinker who influenced them with works such as Lectures on the Philosophy of History and The Phenomenology of Spirit.
Hegel was important in introducing this concept that consists of one person proposing an argument, a counter-reaction, and resolution. In Lectures on the Philosophy of History, this idea is the mechanism through which political change occurs.
Karl Marx
Young Hegelians
dialectic &lt;Jin&gt;
One essay by this man illustrates the example of a man who must choose between caring for his mother and fighting Nazis. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker. One of his essays claims a certain movement “is a Humanism,” and his essay Being and Nothingness uses the example of a too-precise waiter to illustrate the idea of “bad faith.”
Sartre was a prominent thinker in this school of philosophy, whose other members include Albert Camus and Simone de Beauvoir. This often rather bleak school of thought concerns the human individual in an often absurd world.
In “Existentialism is a Humanism,” Sartre claims that “existence precedes” this other concept. In other words, unlike a paper cutter, whose meaning is defined before its creation, humans are free to create their own purpose.
Jean-Paul (Charles Aymard) Sartre
existentialism (accept word forms)
essence (or l’essence; accept “existence precedes essence”; accept “l’existence précède l’essence”; do not accept or prompt on any other answers) &lt;Yue&gt;
This man co-authored <em>The Subjection of Women</em> with his wife, Harriet Taylor. For 10 points each:
Name this English philosopher known for works such as On Liberty.
Mill was a prominent thinker in this school of philosophy whose member Jeremy Bentham studied the ethics of happiness and the “pleasure principle.” More generally, this term has come to refer to practicality or a focus on simplicity.
One form of utilitarianism described by this adjective prioritizes reducing suffering. Arguments against this type of utilitarianism have noted a “benevolent world exploder” could reasonably reduce suffering by eliminating people.
John Stuart Mill
utilitarianism (accept word forms)
negative utilitarianism (do not accept or prompt on synonyms) &lt;Jin&gt;
The universal possibility of this action is illustrated in <em>Meditations on First Philosophy</em>. For 10 points each:
Describe this action done during sleep. Freud wrote a book about The Interpretation of [this action].
The universal possibility of dreaming is illustrated by the Daoist philosopher Zhuangzi’s [“ZWANG-tsi”] tale of dreaming to have been one of these animals. Upon waking up, Zhuangzi wasn’t sure if he was actually one of these animals dreaming of being human.
The universal possibility of dreaming is contrasted with the possibility of universal dreaming, which was illustrated by this Hilary Putnam thought experiment, in which the title object receives stimuli but experiences no sense perception.
dreaming (accept word forms)
butterfly (prompt on insect, I guess)
brain in a vat (accept jar instead of “vat,” but do not accept any other synonyms for “brain” or “vat”) &lt;Jin&gt;
This thinker argued that a person is identical to himself if he has the same conscious experience at any given time. For 10 points each:
Name this English empiricist thinker who wrote about personal identity in his Essay on Human Understanding. He’s better known for political works like Two Treatises of Government, in which he penned the phrase “life, liberty and property.”
This thought experiment on identity asks if the title vessel belonging to a Greek hero remains the same if every one of its planks is replaced. This thought experiment was introduced by Plutarch.
Derek Parfit used these objects to argue for survival without identity in his Reasons and Persons. The paradox associated with these objects is also called the duplicates paradox.
John Locke
ship of Theseus
teleporters &lt;Jin&gt;
Bekker numbers are often used to organize the work of this man. For 10 points each:
Name this Ancient Greek author of Nicomachean Ethics and Metaphysics. He was a student of Plato and a tutor to Alexander the Great.
Another philosopher who wrote about ethics was this 17th century Dutch philosopher and author of the tract Ethics. His writings caused him to appear on the Index of Forbidden Books and to be excommunicated by Amsterdam’s Jewish community.
Spinoza was excommunicated mainly because he advocated for this position in Ethics. Although the formal term did not exist during his life, Spinoza is generally recognized as the re-discoverer of this position, which conflates all of reality with divinity.
Aristotle
Baruch Spinoza [accept Benedito de Espinosa and Benedict de Spinoza]
pantheism &lt;LT&gt;
<em>Stages on Life’s Way</em> is generally seen as a continuation of the ideas explored in this book. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical work that seeks to contrast two different methods of living, the aesthetic and the ethical. It was written under the pseudonym Victor Eremita and notably contains a section called “The Seducer’s Diary”.
This Danish existentialist author of Either/Or is also known for creating the concept of the knight of faith in his book Fear and Trembling.
This woman is believed by some to be the person Isaac represents in Fear and Trembling, and is clearly the source of the issues Kierkegaard addresses in Repetition. She and Kierkegaard were engaged for some time before he ended their relationship in 1841.
Either/Or [accept Enten-Eller]
Soren Aabye Kierkegaard
Regine Olsen [accept Regine Schlegel] &lt;LT&gt;
The ontological argument, which argues that the central entity being considered must exist by its mere definition, was created to support the idea that this concept is true. For 10 points each:
Name this thing that many theologians have attempted to prove and that atheists reject. A descriptive answer is acceptable.
This British cleric was preceded as Archbishop of Canterbury by Lanfranc. He is most famous for formulating the ontological argument in his Proslogion.
This Austro-American mathematician mathematically proved the ontological argument while he was employed at Princeton in the 1970s. He is most famous for his namesake incompleteness theorem.
existence of God [accept anything mentioning God being real]
St. Anselm of Canterbury
Kurt Friedrich Gödel &lt;LT&gt;
The 1971 book <em>A Theory of</em> (this concept), which posited the “veil of ignorance” for evaluating levels of this concept in a society, was written by John Rawls. For 10 points each:
Name this specific philosophical term that is often defined as the method by which fairness is delivered. Courts are said to be part of a system described by this term.
This Harvard philosopher rebuted many of Rawls’ claims in his book Anarchy, State, and Utopia by arguing that the non-aggression principle and natural law were the correct systems to uphold justice.
Nozick is often associated with this philosophical and political movement that seeks to limit the power of the state. One branch of this philosophy is called Anarcho-Capitalism, a coin termed by Murray Rothbard.
justice
Robert Nozick
libertarianism &lt;LT&gt;
Many historians believe that the Republic of Letters by which various intellectuals corresponded helped lead to the developments of this period, and some have called this period the Age of Reason. For 10 points each:
Name philosophical period in 18th century Europe that yielded ideologies like classical liberalism. It’s not the Scientific Revolution, but many of the political ideas of this period helped to influence the founding fathers.
Two philosophers from this 20th century philosophical movement, Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer, wrote a Dialectic of Enlightenment. This Marxist school of thought takes its name from a city in the German state of Hesse.
One of the Frankfurt School’s most prominent figures, Herbert Marcuse, is called the “Father of the New Left” partially because he helped develop this leftist philosophical approach that seeks to examine and eliminate society’s ills
The Enlightenment
Frankfurt School
critical theory &lt;LT&gt;
This field of study takes its name from a Greek word literally meaning “what is spoken.” For 10 points each:
Name this discipline that seeks to systematically study arguments and their structure. Its Boolean variety is often used in mathematics and computing.
This German man is often considered to be one of the founders of modern mathematical logic. His 1884 work, The Foundations of Arithmetic, laid out his theory of numbers and helped to inspire Bertrand Russell.
Frege is also considered the father of this school of philosophy that is often contrasted with continental philosophy. This contemporarily dominant approach is often associated with precise argumentation and heavy use of mathematics.
logic
Friedrich Ludwig Gottlob Frege
analytic philosophy [accept analytical philosophy] &lt;LT&gt;
This philosopher is widely misunderstood and often associated with Nazism, despite not actually being an anti-Semite. For 10 points each:
Name this mustachioed German philosopher who famously proclaimed “God is Dead.”
This book contains the famous quote “God is Dead” and details the travelings of a title character who shares a name with a crucial figure of Zoroastrianism. It is subtitled “A Book for All and None.”
[10] In Thus Spoke Zarathustra, this crucial German concept details the idea of a superior man who is seen as the goal for humanity. This specific German word is often translated as “superman”, and it became an important concept in anarchist and fascist thought.
Friedrich Nietzsche
Thus Spoke Zarathustra [or Thus Spake Zarathustra; accept Also Sprach Zarathustra]
Übermensch &lt;BL&gt;
Is your score on this bonus predetermined or can you control it? For 10 points each:
Name this concept that is often defined as the capacity of acting to fulfill one’s desires. The existence of the “free” variety of this concept has long been a topic of debate among scholars and theologians.
This German philosopher is most famous for writing The World as Will and Representation, in which he posited that aesthetic pleasure creates temporary escape from the Will.
Schopenhauer also wrote the 1851 essay “On [these people]”. The authors of the 2005 book Philosophers Behaving Badly wrote that Schopenhauer was among the most prejudiced philosopher against these people in the Western canon.
Will
Arthur Schopenhauer
women [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;LT&gt;
This philosopher was heavily influenced in his “early period” by the Vienna Circle. For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian philosopher known for thought experiments such as a speaking lion and a beetle in a box in his Philosophical Investigations. He also wrote the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
Wittgenstein’s primary philosophical project in the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus was the grounding of this action in logic. Aspects of this phenomenon include morphology, semantics, and syntax.
This later American philosopher also studied language in Word and Object. In that work, this thinker argued that while a color blind person has an idea of red, the meaning of the word red is not the same as that for a non-color blind person.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
language (prompt on things like writing or speaking or other ways of using language)
Willard van Orman Quine
The study of this subject is paired with rhetoric and grammar in the trivium of the liberal arts education. For 10 points each:
Name this subfield of philosophy, the systematic study of arguments and their structures. Syllogisms are examples of arguments studied in this subject, as well as statements like “A implies B.”
This German philosopher founded analytic philosophy and tried to ground mathematics in logic with works like Foundations of Arithmetic and Begriffsschrift. In his namesake “Puzzle,” he contrasted calling a certain entity by the names of either Hesperus or Phosphorus.
This British logician continued Frege’s project with his Principia Mathematica, in which he and Alfred North Whitehead proved that “1 + 1 = 2.” He also names a paradox in set theory.
logic
Gottlob Frege
Bertrand Russell
This work describes the title object as an art form that transcends the negativities of daily life. For 10 points each:
Name this work which describes the Apollonian and Dionysian aspects of the title art form. This work describes the works of Richard Wagner as a reincarnation of the title art form.
This German early existentialist author wrote The Birth of Tragedy. He also wrote Thus Spake Zarathustra, and his assertion that “God is dead, and we have killed him” has often been co-opted by edgy teenagers.
This aphorism in The Birth of Tragedy represents the nihilist influence on Nietzsche by Arthur Schopenhauer. It’s often expanded as meaning “it is best not to be born at all; and next to that, it is better to die than to live,” and this phrase is named for a Greek satyr.
The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music
Friedrich Nietzsche
The Wisdom of Silenus
One of this man’s works includes a six volume history of England. For 10 points each:
Name this Scottish philosopher and empiricist who introduced thought experiments such as the “missing shade of blue” in his An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
One of Hume’s most famous ideas was the “problem” of this concept. This form of reasoning infers from a small case to a larger case, unlike the similar deduction.
This man revived Hume’s ideas in his “New Riddle of Induction,” in which he tried to differentiate law-like generalizations from non-lawlike generalizations such as grue and bleen.
David Hume
induction
Nelson Goodman
This text describes two contrasting models for the circulation between money and commodities titled “C-M-C” and “M-C-M.” For 10 points each:
Name this multivolume “Critique of Political Economy.” Its first chapter introduces the author’s idea of commodity fetishism, and its second and third volumes were prepared by Friedrich Engels.
This German philosopher wrote Das Kapital. He exhorted, “Workers of the world, unite!” in a book he again coauthored with Friedrich Engels, The Communist Manifesto.
In The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon, Marx uses this term to describe the low-status outcasts of society. Marx thinks they’re essentially worthless losers because they will never achieve class consciousness.
Das Kapital: Kritik der politischen Ökonomie (or Capital: Critique of Political Economy)
Karl Marx
lumpenproletariat
One of these things refers to logical fallacies arising from a misunderstanding between names and what they represent. For 10 points each:
Name these concepts. They include “of the Market Place,” “of the Cave,” “of the Tribe,” and “of the Theatre.”
The four idols appear in the Novum Organum, a work by this English author. He also described a utopian society in The New Atlantis, and is usually attributed the phrase “Knowledge is power.”
The Novum Organum was a key work in the development of this practice’s namesake “method,” which includes making a hypothesis and performing experiments.
Idols (accept any of the specific idols mentioned)
Francis Bacon, 1st Viscount St Alban (Ed’s note: accept “France is bacon”)
science (or the scientific method)
This book begins with an analysis of the gruesome execution of a man who attempted to kill Louis XV named Robert-François Damiens. For 10 points each:
Name this work which cites Jeremy Bentham’s Panopticon as a way that authority creates “docile bodies.”
Discipline and Punish is a work by Michel Foucault, whose other works include one titled for Madness and this other concept. The Fertile Crescent and Yellow River were “cradles” of these early but complex societies.
Foucault examined the “medical” variety of this phenomenon. Feminists often describe the “male” variety of this phenomenon, in which men objectify women with the way they view and look at them.
Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison (or Surveiller et punir: Naissance de la prison)
civilization
gaze (accept exact word only, or phrases containing the word)
This character unusually does not appear in the Laws. For 10 points each:
 Name this character, who claims that the soul is immortal in the Phaedo.
Socrates features in the dialogues of this Greek philosopher, his student. His many dialogues include the Timaeus and the Republic.
In this Platonic dialogue, Socrates recounts Diotima's speech about love, and a drunk Alcibiades barges in to talk about his attempted seduction of Socrates.
Socrates
Plato [or Platon; or Aristokles]
Symposium
This philosophy emphasizes the "Three Treasures," which are compassion, humility, and moderation. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Chinese philosophy. Its major text was written by Laozi.
Description acceptable. In an oft-quoted section of the Tao Te Ching, Laozi notes that windows and doors are useful because they're the parts of the wall that have this property. Similarly, a bowl is usable so long as it is this.
Taoism emphasizes this principle, which is roughly equivalent to "non-action." That is, one should try to live in a natural, easygoing manner.
Taoism [or Daoism]
they're empty [or kong; accept any reasonable equivalent emphasizing that there's nothing there]
wu wei
David Hume proposed the problem of induction in this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field of study in philosophy primarily concerned with knowledge.
This man, among others, defined knowledge as a “justified true belief.” This philosopher wrote the Nicomachean Ethics, was taught by Plato, and in turn tutored Alexander the Great.
This man debunked the justified true belief definition of knowledge by providing two counter-examples where justified true beliefs end up being correct by coincidence instead of by logical deduction.
Epistemology
Aristotle
Edmund Gettier (accept Gettier problem)
This man’s tombstone is engraved with the phrase “Proletarians of all countries, unite!” For 10 points each:
Name this German philosopher who co-authored the Communist Manifesto with Friedrich Engels.
Marx wrote a number of notes titled “Theses on [this man].” This thinker wrote The Essence of Christianity and developed a theory of alienation which Marx later adopted into his own work.
Alienation, along with commodity fetishism, are among the many ideas analyzed in this work, a collaboration with Friedrich Engels. In Part III of this work, Marx noted the tendency of the rate of profit to fall.
Karl Marx
Ludwig Feuerbach
Das Kapital: Kritik der politischen Ökonomie (or Capital: Critique of Political Economy)
One book opens with an “Exordium” about this figure, which is followed by a chapter with this figure’s “Eulogy.” For 10 points each:
Name this figure who is used to demonstrate the teleological suspension of the ethical in Fear and Trembling. In Fear and Trembling, this man is the prototypical “knight of faith.”
Name this author of Fear and Trembling. This Dane also wrote Either/Or, and he is considered the first existentialist philosopher.
Kierkegaard frequently wrote about the subjectivity of this concept. In Latin, this concept was known as “veritas,” and it can be calculated using namesake “tables.”
Abraham (do not accept “Isaac,” but accept things like “Abraham and the Binding of Isaac”)
Soren Kierkegaard
truth
This man contended the most equitable and just society would result if people negotiated from “original position[s]” where nobody knew their place in society. For 10 points each.
Name this Harvard philosopher. He feuded with his colleague Robert Nozick, who wrote Anarchy, State, and Utopia in response to this man’s ideas.
In addition to Rawls’s veil of ignorance, this other original position theory argues that humans are a “blank slate” at birth and consequently derive all knowledge from experience.
The tabula rasa was an idea proposed in this man’s Essay Concerning Human Understanding. This man also argued that government ought to protect “life, liberty, and estate” in his Two Treatises of Government.
John Rawls
tabula rasa (prompt on “blank state”)
John Locke
Peter Singer extended this school to the branch of animal rights. For 10 points each:
Name this school of philosophy espoused in a namesake book by John Stuart Mill that argues that the greatest good is (loosely) whatever maximizes happiness for the greatest number of people.
This man was the original founder of utilitarianism. He devised a “felicific calculus” to measure morality, and his will stipulated that his body be preserved as an “auto-icon.”
An early form of utilitarianism was the Greek hedonist school of Epicureanism, which held that this state was the ultimate goal of philosophy. This state is freedom from worry, and its name is Greek for “tranquility.”
utilitarianism (accept word forms like “utility” or “utilitarian”)
Jeremy Bentham
ataraxia
The deontologist H. A. Prichard argued that this field cannot justify human obligations in an essay asking if this field “rests on a mistake.” For 10 points each:
Name this branch of philosophy that seeks to distinguish between good and evil and right and wrong human actions. Consequentialism is a branch of this field that argues that “the ends justify the means.”
Anscombe’s “Modern Moral Philosophy” helped revive a branch of ethics based on the role of these traits in morality. Aristotle said that each of these traits is a “golden mean” between two extremes.
This English thinker used the open-question argument to argue against ethical naturalism in his Principia Ethica.
ethics [or moral philosophy]
virtues
G. E. Moore &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
This school’s founder used the example of a square tower that appears round to argue that all sense perceptions are true. For 10 points each:
Name this philosophical school, often falsely associated with unrestrained hedonism, which was named for a Greek philosopher who taught that pleasure was the only good.
One of the tenets of Epicureanism was that the universe consisted of void and these swervy objects. Democritus proposed that these things were the smallest, indivisible units in all matter.
This Roman Epicurean author described how free will originated with the “swerve” of atoms in his philosophical poem On the Nature of Things.
Epicureanism [or anything indicating the teachings of Epicurus]
atoms
Lucretius [or Titus Lucretius Carus; prompt on “Titus” or “Carus”] &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
A thought experiment points out that the only necessary properties of this substance are extendability, flexibility, and movability. For 10 points each:
Name this material which the Meditator imagines putting close to a fire to argue that intellect, not the senses, is responsible for perception. That argument named for this stuff appears in Meditations on First Philosophy.
The wax argument bolsters the claim “cogito ergo sum” in the work of this 17th-century French philosopher, who also names a coordinate system used in mathematics.
Descartes also put forth this idea, which holds that the mind is distinct from the physical body. This view was derided as the “dogma of the ghost in the machine” by Gilbert Ryle.
wax [or a ball of wax]
Rene Descartes [or Renatus Cartesius; prompt on “Cartesian”]
mind-body dualism &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
This thinker condemned the misinterpretation of scripture in the chapter “Of the Kingdom of Darkness.” For 10 points each:
Name this British political theorist whose concerns about the “war of all against all” prompted him to call for the rule of an absolute sovereign in his treatise Leviathan.
Leviathan famously states that the “life of man” in the “state of nature” is “solitary, poor” and characterized by these three other adjectives. Name them all in any order.
Hobbes’ De Corpore discusses these things as aids to recalling ideas. The concept of “rigid designators” was put forth in a book titled for the process of creating these things and “necessity” by Saul Kripke.
Thomas Hobbes
“nasty, brutish, and short” [accept in any order; do not accept synonyms]
names [or naming; prompt on “words” or “proper nouns”] &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
This concept is illustrated with the example of a woman on a date who refuses to recognize the subtext of the phrase “You are so attractive.” For 10 points each:
Give this concept also exemplified by a waiter who is acting too “waiter-esque,” a phenomenon in which people deny their freedom by acting inauthentically.
Bad faith is a concept discussed in this philosopher’s treatise Being and Nothingness.
The Second Sex, a book by Sartre’s lover Simone de Beauvoir, influenced the “second-wave” of this movement. Another text from this movement is Betty Friedan’s work titled for a certain type of “mystique.”
bad faith [or mauvaise foi; or self-deception because Walter Kaufmann translates it that way]
Jean-Paul Sartre
feminism [or word forms] &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
<em>The System of Economic Contradictions</em> redefined this thing as “freedom,” several years after its author had labeled it as “theft” in an 1840 book. For 10 points each:
Name this concept. The 1754 Discourse on Inequality claims that civil society originated when a man invented this concept by crying “this is mine!”
This French philosopher of the 18th century critiqued property in Discourse on Inequality and influenced Romanticism with Émile, a treatise on education.
Rousseau wrote a book titled for the “social” form of this sort of agreement, which binds its parties to certain obligations.
private property [prompt on “land” or “land ownership”]
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
contracts [accept The Social Contract or contrat] &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
Answer the following about discussions of miracles in philosophy. For 10 points each:
This philosopher defined miracles as “violations of the laws of nature” in the tenth section of his An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
Baruch Spinoza’s claim that miracles are a “sheer absurdity” helped get him kicked out of this religion. Another philosopher of this religion, Moses Maimonides, authored the Mishneh Torah.
This Islamic thinker argued that God is the direct cause of all events to attack Avicenna’s skepticism about some miracles described in the Qur’an in the 17th section of his The Incoherence of the Philosophers.
David Hume
Judaism [or Jews]
Al-Ghazali [or Abu Hamid Muhammad ibn Muhammad al-Ghazali; or Algazel] &lt;JB Philosophy&gt;
The Islamic Golden Age was a time of great cultural, economic and scientific flourishing. For 10 points each:
Name this current Iraqi capital, the epicenter of the Islamic Golden Age. It was infamous for its numerous libraries, which included the Bayt-al Hikma, the House of Wisdom.
This Persian philosopher and physician of the Islamic Golden Age is famous for translating the works of Plato and Aristotle along with Ibn-Rushd.
This is Avicenna’s most famous work, a medical encyclopedia in five volumes completed in 1025.
Baghdad
Avicenna [accept Ibn Sina]
The Canon of Medicine &lt;RM&gt;
Thomas Aquinas equated God with the “unmoved mover” from this man’s <em>Metaphysics</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek philosopher who established the Peripatetic School in his Lyceum. His works include On Interpretation and Poetics.
Aristotle’s attempts to answer the question of how humans should live include Eudemian Ethics, as well as this text, which posited the idea of moral virtues. It’s named after his son, who might have edited it.
On Interpretation is one of this set of six works on logic by Aristotle, which also includes Prior Analytics and Categories.
Aristotle
Nicomachean Ethics
Organon &lt;NB&gt;
Immanuel Kant gave this philosophical era the motto “Dare to Know.” For 10 points each:
Identify his era promoted by the philosophes in Western Europe which emphasized reason and challenged the authority of institutions like the Catholic Church.
This French philosopher and scientist of the Age of Enlightenment departed from scholasticism, and laid the foundation for rationalism. He is famous for his work Discourse on the Method.
This treatise is the Descartes’ first work in which he discards knowledge that isn’t absolutely certain and establishes what can be known for sure. It was written as if it were composed over a six-day period.
Age of Enlightenment
Rene Descartes
Meditations on First Philosophy
This author coined the term “différance,” with an “a”. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher who formulated analysis through deconstruction.
Derrida wrote of deconstruction in this 1967 book, which was translated into English by Gayatri Spivak. This book lays out a history of writing, and a sentence from it has been translated to “there is nothing outside the text”.
Derrida was an Algerian-born poststructuralist social critic who moved to this country. Other social critics from this country include Roland Barthes, Claude Levi-Strauss, and Michel Foucault.
Jacques Derrida [or Jackie Élie Derrida]
Of Grammatology [or De la grammatologie]
France [or French] &lt;AG&gt;
The followers of this school of philosophy argued that “virtue is sufficient for happiness” and who sought to become “sages” of “moral and intellectual perfection.” For 10 points each:
Name this school of Hellenistic philosophy was founded by Zeno of Citium which taught that the development of self control helped control destructive emotions.
This emperor was a renowned Stoic philosopher, contrary to the sentiments of his Greek tutor, Herodes Atticus. The influence of Stoicism is apparent in his work Meditations.
This Stoic philosopher influenced Marcus Aurelius and his works, which include The Discourses, were published by his student Arrian. He argued that we have no power over external things and good can only be found within the self.
stoicism
Marcus Aurelius
Epictetus &lt;RM&gt;
The followers of this school of philosophy argued that “virtue is sufficient for happiness” and who sought to become “sages” of “moral and intellectual perfection.” For 10 points each:
Name this school of Hellenistic philosophy was founded by Zeno of Citium which taught that the development of self control helped control destructive emotions.
This emperor was a renowned Stoic philosopher, contrary to the sentiments of his Greek tutor, Herodes Atticus. The influence of Stoicism is apparent in his work Meditations.
This Stoic philosopher influenced Marcus Aurelius and his works, which include The Discourses, were published by his student Arrian. He argued that we have no power over external things and good can only be found within the self.
stoicism
Marcus Aurelius
Epictetus &lt;RM&gt;
This kind of knowledge has been described as that which “you can see is true just lying on your couch.” For 10 points each:
Name this term used in epistemology to define a type of knowledge is independent of experience and can be derived from reason alone.
This 18th century German philosopher argued that math and science contain synthetic a priori knowledge and that reason is the source of morality
This work by Immanuel Kant differentiated between a priori and a posteriori and contains the Transcendental Doctrine of Elements and the Transcendental Doctrine of Method. It was followed two years later by the Critique of Judgment.
a priori
Immanuel Kant
Critique of Pure Reason &lt;RM&gt;
This philosopher often employed pseudonyms such as “Anti-Climacus,” which he used in his work <em>The Sickness Unto Death</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this philosopher who wrote that “subjectivity is truth” and who encouraged an irrational “leap” to Christian faith. Much of his work criticized the practice of Christianity as a state religion.
Kierkegaard wrote this work, which examines Abraham’s willingness to sacrifice his son Isaac, under the alias Johannes de Silentio.
Kierkegaard is considered to be the first philosopher of this theory that claims that philosophical thinking begins with the human acting a free agent
Soren Kierkegaard
Fear and Trembling
existentialism &lt;RM&gt;
This philosopher used <em>A Pair of Shoes</em> by Vincent Van Gogh to illustrate his application of Edmund Husserl’s method of phenomenological description in his essay <em>The Origin of the Work of Art</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this German philosopher, whose concept of a form of being, dasein, was posited in his Being and Time.
Heidegger joined this political party in 1933, after being elected as Rector of the University of Freiburg. It’s debated whether or not he was anti-Semitic, but he endorsed the principle of Führerprinzip in a series of 1933 speeches.
The Nazis loved to quote this earlier German philosopher, mostly because his anti-Semitic sister edited “The Will to Power” after he went insane. He actually stigmatized nationalism in Ecce Homo.
Martin Heidegger
Nazi Party [accept National Socialist German Workers's Party; or Nationalsozialistische]
Friedrich Nietzsche &lt;NB&gt;
According to Immanuel Kant, this phenomenon begins with a thesis, is contradicted by an antithesis, and is finally resolved by a synthesis. For 10 points each:
Name this method of argument. When the two parties involved recognize that they are both self-conscious, the master-slave version of this phenomenon occurs.
The master-slave dialectic was first proposed in the Phenomenology of Spirit, a work by this German philosopher. His work on absolute idealism concerns how being can be comprehensible as an all-inclusive whole.
This phrase is commonly attributed to Hegel, though he never actually used this word. It refers to the dominant school of thought that influences the culture of a particular period in time.
dialectics
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
Zeitgeist &lt;AT&gt;
Its second formulation states that one must treat people as autonomous ends in themselves. For 10 points each:
Name this ethical concept whose first formulation states that one's moral duty is to do what one believes everyone can and ought to do. It is absolute, unlike its hypothetical cousin.
The categorical imperative is the basis of this philosopher's deontological ethics. This transcendental idealist argued that synthetic a priori propositions exist, and we only experience the real world as filtered through categories. 
Kant proposed synthetic a priori judgments in the first volume of this series, "of Pure Reason". The second volume argues for the practical necessity of believing in God, while the third volume discusses aesthetic judgment.
categorical imperative
Immanuel Kant
Critiques
For 10 points each, identify the following about realism in international relations.
Realists believe that the international system is characterized by this property, since it lacks a universal central authority. Because of this, uncertainty and self-help pervade the system.
Thucydides fictionalized a dialogue between realist Athens and this idealist island during the Peloponnesian War. This island refuses to surrender to the Athenians, who justify its destruction wih "might makes right". 
This Italian realist diplomat emphasized the importance of virtu. In The Prince, he advised Lorenzo II de' Medici to be feared rather than loved or hated. 
anarchy
Melos [or Melian Dialogue]
NiccolÃ² Machiavelli
This entity is depicted wielding both a sword and a papal staff with a body made of people. For 10 points each:
Identify this symbol of the Commonwealth, headed by a Sovereign with civil and ecclesiastical power. It represents a covenant where people cede their natural rights for a state of peace. 
The Leviathan is a political structure imagined by this English philosopher, who warned that the alternative is a state of nature where life is "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short". 
According to Hobbes, people are primarily driven by the pursuit of this concept. The state of nature is anarchic because people are preoccupied with this, which is more certain in a state of peace.
the Leviathan
Thomas Hobbes
self-survival [or self-preservation; accept synonyms]
Nietzsche and Kierkegaard criticized this proposition because its first statement presupposes self-existence. For 10 points each: 
Identify this proposition concluding self-existence that for one philosopher, serves as the basis for all further knowledge. It was reached by indirect proof after a process of hyperbolic doubt in Discourse on Method. 
This French dualist philosopher who wrote Discourse on Method declared cogito ergo sum. He questioned the veracity of our senses with scenarios involving melting wax and an evil demon.
This Persian polymath imagined a floating man lacking sensation and memory, and concluded that affirming self-existence does not rely on the body's existence. He wrote Book of Healing and The Canon of Medicine.
cogito ergo sum [or I am thinking, therefore I am; prompt on the cogito]
Rene Descartes
Avicenna [or Pur Sina; or Ibn Sina] 
Answer these questions about an academic field studied by philosopher Thomas Kuhn, for 10 points each.
Kuhn is a historian of this field, who described The Structure of its namesake Revolutions as “paradigm shifts.” This field of inquiry uses experiments to test hypotheses about the world.
This English philosopher championed the scientific method in his Novum Organum and claimed that “Knowledge is power.”
This Austrian philosopher claimed that all scientific claims had to be “falsifiable” in his The Logic of Scientific Discovery and critiqued historicism in his The Open Society and Its Enemies.
science [or scientific method; or scientific revolutions]
Sir Francis Bacon
Sir Karl Raimund Popper &lt;IP&gt;
Michael Sandel’s lecture course on this topic at Harvard is now freely available to the public, and the Ring of Gyges thought experiment tries to show that self-interested people should ignore this concept. For 10 points each:
Name this property of a person or society. Its “distributive” form is the best way to allocate goods and its “retributive” form is the best way to punish crimes correctly.
This liberal Harvard philosopher defined justice as fairness. He argued that people should form societies based on a “veil of ignorance” about what their social status will be in A Theory of Justice.
Rawls’s social contract approach resembles this British empiricist, who argued that a social contract had to protect “life, liberty, and estate” in Two Treatises of Government and proposed the “tabula rasa”.
justice [or being just]
John Bordley Rawls
John Locke &lt;IP/MJ&gt;
Important women in this thinker's life included Elizabeth of Bohemia, with whom he argued about the physical "seat of the soul," and Princess Christina of Sweden, whom he tutored. For 10 points each:
Name this rationalist French thinker, whose namesake dualism is the idea that the immaterial mind is a different thing from the body.
In Discourse on Method, Descartes stated this principle which made himself into a foundation to ensure that he could not rationally doubt everything his senses told him.
This earlier Frenchman asked “What do I know?” and argued that our senses can’t obtain firm knowledge in Apology for Raymond Sebond. He argued that European warfare was worse than eating people in “On Cannibals.”
Rene Descartes [or Renatus Cartesius]
"I think, therefore I am" [or “Cogito ergo sum”, or “Je pense donc je suis”; or “the cogito”; or “I am a thinking thing;” or “I am a thing that thinks”; prompt “I am” or “I am, I exist”]
Michel de Montaigne &lt;MJ&gt;
This philosopher described a madman with a lantern in his <em>The Gay Science</em>, and believed that the post-Christian world of his day was still stuck with “slave morality.”<em>.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this mustached German philosopher whose ideas include the unrestricted, superhuman übermensch. He declared that “God is dead” before going insane.
This title prophet of a Nietzsche work, named for a real-world prophet, comes down from the mountains to discsuss “eternal recurrence” and hail the age of the übermensch.
Name or description acceptable. After Nietzsche went mad, this anti-Semitic caretaker edited and controlled his work. This member of a failed Aryan colony in Paraguay compiled rough notes into The Will to Power and promoted Nietzsche to early Nazis.
Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche
Zarathustra [do not accept “Zoroaster”][from Thus Spake Zarathustra]
Nietzsche’s sister [or Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche; or Elisabeth Förster] &lt;MJ&gt;
The syllogism and De Morgan’s laws are methods used in this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field that sits at the boundary between philosophy and mathematics, and whose most famous thinkers include Gottlob Frege and George Boole, the latter of who lends his name to a branch of this field.
This 20th-century logician proved that any sufficiently-powerful logical system is incapable of proving all theorems that are true in the system. His incompleteness theorems undermined much of Frege’s work.
Gödel’s theorems do not apply to this type of logic, which includes quantifiers over variables but not predicates or functions. Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory employs this type of logic.
logic
Kurt Gödel [pronounced “gur-dull”, but accept any reasonable pronunciation]
first-order logic [accept first-order predicate calculus] &lt;DS&gt;
This man claimed that primary substances undergo changes when a potentiality within them becomes actualized in his <em>Physics,</em> and believed that all objects were designed according to an end goal called a <em>telos</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek philosopher, a tutor of Alexander the Great who was himself a pupil of Plato.
After leaving Plato’s Academy, Aristotle taught at this school, where his Peripatetic followers gathered. His surviving texts are thought to be summaries of lectures given here.
Name ANY of the three modes of persuasion Aristotle named in his Rhetoric. The first appeals to the audience’s emotions, the second to personal character, and the third to relevant rational claims in one’s speech.
Aristotle of Stagira [or Aristoteles]
Lyceum [or Lykeion]
pathos OR ethos OR logos &lt;MJ&gt;
This book pseudonymously written by Johannes de Silentio. For 10 points each:
Name this book which asks “Is there a teleological suspension of the ethical?” In basic terms, it asks whether any individual, such as Abraham sacrificing Isaac, can stand above ethics to carry out a divinely-ordained goal.
Give the real name of the author of Fear and Trembling and The Sickness unto Death. This Christian proto-existentialist is the only Danish philosopher of note.
De Silentio gives Abraham as an example of this type of person. This type of person, whose status cannot be verified by others, can sacrifice everything while still believing that all will be returned to him by virtue of the absurd.
Fear and Trembling [or Frygt og Bæven]
Søren Kierkegaard
a knight of faith &lt;DS&gt;
[missing]
 This model proposes the division of the state into independent branches, each no more powerful than the others. This system often yields legislative, judicial, and executive branches.
 This French Enlightenment political philosopher articulated a theory of the separation of powers. He argued that monarchies relied on the principle of virtue, and despotisms relied on fear.
 Montesquieu published this 1748 political treatise in which he discusses how liberty in England might be preserved through separation of powers.
 separation of powers [prompt on "tripartite system"]
 Charles-Louis de Montesquieu
 On the Spirit of the Laws [or De l'esprit des lois]
[missing]
 This concept states that there is no absolute truth or validity, but that truth should be viewed within the reference frame of a language or culture. The "moral" type of this concept is particularly contentious.
 This Greek sophist was an early relativist. His teachings are described in Theaetetus and his namesake Platonic dialogue, where he discussed if virtue can be taught. He famously stated "man is the measure of all things".
 The second chapter of the Chinese relativist work Zhuangzi is entitled "Zhuangzi dreamed he was" this animal. He does not know if he were this insect dreaming he was Zhuangzi, or Zhuangzi dreaming he was this insect.
 relativism
 Protagoras
 butterfly
[missing]
 Name this school of philosophy that emphasizes practical utility and uses actual value to define truth. It was espoused by John Dewey and the author of "How to Make Our Ideas Clear", C.S. Peirce ("purse").
 This author of The Principles of Psychology and "The Will to Believe" sought a middle ground between "tough-minded" and "tender-minded" philosophers in his work Pragmatism.
 James criticized this theory's definition of truth and instead turned to a statement's "cash value". Unlike pragmatic or coherence theories, it states that a statement is true if it is congruent to a state of affairs in reality.
 pragmatism
 William James
 correspondence theory of truth 
Name some things relating to the mind-body problem, for 10 points each.
This philosopher approached the mind-body problem with the assertion that everything that exists, including human beings, is a "mode" of God, a theory that he espoused in his work Ethics.
Spinoza's monism contrasts with this theory that asserts that the mind is an independently existing but non-physical substance. It was developed by Rene Descartes.
In The Concept of Mind, Gilbert Ryle characterized Cartesian dualism with this phrase, which describes a mysterious mind inhabiting an intelligible body. This phrase lends its name to an Arthur Koestler work.
Baruch Spinoza
substance dualism
ghost in the machine
[missing]
 Name this post-Kantian German philosopher, who argued that experience was grounded in intentionality and care. He coined the term Dasein to refer to a state of being that understands itself through its own existence.
 This Heidegger work discusses viewing objects as a means to an end as being "ready-to-hand", as opposed to "present-at-hand". Heidegger never finished this work, so the part on the second title concept is incomplete.
 This existentialist has been accused of simply reintroducing the Cartesian ego to Heidegger's ideas. He is the author of the similarly titled Being and Nothingness, in which he espouses his ideas of authenticity and bad faith.
 Martin Heidegger
 Being and Time [or Sein und Zeit]
 Jean-Paul Sartre
[missing]
 Name this principle which states that all truths must have a cause.
 This philosopher used the principle of sufficient reason to argue that the reason for this world is that it is the best of all possible worlds in Monadology.
 This philosopher described four independent kinds of reasons and objects in On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason, which he correlated with representations in The World as Will and Representation.
 principle of sufficient reason
 Gottfried Leibniz
 Arthur Schopenhauer
[missing]
 Name this incomplete work structured as a series of objections and responses. It contains five arguments for the existence of God.
 This Scholastic philosopher defended Christianity and put forth a four-part definition of faith in Summa con Gentiles, which he expanded on in Summa Theologica.
 Aquinas was heavily influenced by this Jewish philosopher who wrote a work addressed to his student Joseph ben Judah, Guide for the Perplexed. His non-philosophical works included the Mishneh Torah.
 Summa Theologica [or Summation of Theology; prompt on "Summa"]
 Saint Thomas Aquinas [or Thomas of Aquin]
 Moses Maimonides [or Moses ben Maimon]
[missing]
 Name this essay that attempts to tackle the problems of substitutivity, the excluded middle, and negative existentials by introducing a theory of definite descriptions.
 This writer of "Why I am Not a Christian" and "On Denoting" is also known for his namesake paradox, which pertains to a set of all sets that does not include itself.
 Bertrand Russell collaborated with Alfred Whitehead on this ambitious work which introduces a set of axioms in an attempt to reduce mathematics into logical statements.
 "On Denoting"
 Bertrand Russell
 Principia Mathematica
[missing]
 Name this philosophical school, named after its Athenian founder, which believed pleasure to be the ultimate good, advocating moderate asceticism in order to be free from pain.
 This Roman Epicurean stated that the "nature of mind and soul" is "corporeal" in his De rerum natura, or "On the Nature of Things", which also asserts that nothing exists except bodies and the void.
 Lucretius's metaphysical theory posited that physical objects were constructed of these indivisible, eternal units. Leucippus's theory on these entities was extended by his student Democritus.
 Epicureanism
 Titus Lucretius Carus
 atoms
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the philosophy of mathematics.
This result, which ruined David Hilbert’s dream of axiomatizing all math, states that within any powerful formal system, either some true statements can’t be proved, or else the system must produce a contradiction.
Gödel’s paper singled out the efforts of this British thinker, who asked whether “the set of all sets that do not contain themselves” contains itself, gave the lecture Why I am Not a Christian, and lobbied for nuclear disarmament.
Russell attempted to ground mathematics in logic in this massive work co-authored with Alfred North Whitehead. It takes hundreds of pages to prove that 1 plus 1 equals 2, which it notes is “occasionally useful.”
Gödel’s Incompleteness Theorem[s]
Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell
Principia Mathematica &lt;SSp&gt;
William James was a professor of philosophy and psychology at this university at the turn of the twentieth century. For 10 points each:
Name this Ivy League university whose so-called “mascot” is the color crimson. It is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and its founding in 1636 makes it the oldest college in America.
While at Harvard, William James advocated for this school of American philosophy, which holds that a person’s claims and concepts are judged by their usefulness to, and effect on, that person.
James championed this other American, who founded and later broke with pragmatism. He worked in logic and semiotics, which inspired his work How to Make Our Ideas Clear.
Harvard University [or Harvard College][Editor’s note: BOOOOO HARVARD]
pragmatism [do not accept “pragmatic” or “pragmaticism”]
Charles Sanders Peirce [PURSE] &lt;MJ&gt;
This prolific letter-writer published only two full-length books during his lifetime; one such book was his <em>Theodicy.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this German philosopher and polymath who discovered calculus independently of Isaac Newton.
Leibniz used the principle of sufficient reason to derive this oftenridiculed claim about the world we live in. It follows from the existence of a perfectly good God with free choice at the time of creation.
Leibniz believed that the world consists of these “windowless,” singular substances, which unlike atoms don’t interact and don’t have defined size.
Gottfeid Wilhelm Leibniz
we live in the best of all possible worlds [or “this is the optimal world”; or Leibnizian optimism; prompt partial answers; be lenient but prompt any answer about the best world which doesn’t specify “possible”; do NOT accept any answers including “all is for the best”]
monads &lt;DSteinberg&gt;
One philosopher from this country, who wrote that a life-force called the <em>élan vital</em> drove evolution, was Henri Bergson. For 10 points each:
Name this European country where Jean-Paul Sartre promoted his existentialism after attending the École Normale Superieure.
This bald French thinker noted that deviant categories such as insanity are socially defined in works such as The Birth of the Clinic. In Discipline and Punish, this theorist of discourse compared society to the Panopticon prison.
Another modern Frenchman, Jacques Derrida, developed this way of reading texts. It seeks to expose the hierarchies or binary opposites in a text and reveals ways in which that text contradicts itself.
France [or French Third Republic, or Vichy France, or French Fourth Republic]
Michel Foucault [foo-KOH]
deconstruction &lt;MJ&gt;
This thinker posited that the universe has always had an “unmoved mover” in <em>Metaphysics.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this tutor of Alexander the Great, a Greek philosopher whose lecture notes from the Lyceum come to us as works such as the Poetics and Nicomachean Ethics. He was a student of Plato.
Aristotle wrote in his Poetics that tragic plays are useful in bringing out this state of emotional purification, which is obtained when an audience member feels a release of negative emotions upon watching them.
Aristotle’s Physics distinguishes the “formal,” “material,” “efficient,” and “final” types of these conceptual things, the reasons for an object being the way it is.
Aristotle of Stagira [or Aristoteles]
catharsis
the four causes [or four becauses, or aition] &lt;MJ&gt;
Ludwig Wittgenstein popularized analyzing this quality and its opposite in namesake “tables.” For 10 points each:
Name this quality important to philosophers. If a claim has this property, that claim is factually correct.
Assessing the truth of claims is a key part of this field of study, which determines the validity and soundness of argument and the rules governing rational thought.
These logical laws relate conjunction and disjunction. One of them says the negation of quantity p OR q logically equals not p AND not q; the other says that the negation of quantity p AND q equals not p OR not q.
truth [or true]
logic [or predicate logic; or formal logic; or modal logic; or syllogistic logic]
DeMorgan’s laws &lt;MJ&gt;
This man’s <em>Critique of Practical Reason</em> explored his notion of a “categorical imperative” for moral actions before he published his <em>Metaphysics of Morals.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this punctual thinker from Königsberg, who attempted to define the limits of a priori inference in his Critique of Pure Reason after David Hume’s writing shocked him.
Kant’s Critiques were key in this reason-loving 18th-century intellectual movement, which Adam Smith was also part of. Kant defined it as “man emerging from self-imposed immaturity” in one essay about it.
This “philosophical sketch” by Kant is written as a treaty establishing the title condition by means of six Preliminary and three Definitive Articles. It recommends that all nations become democratic republics.
Immanuel Kant
The Enlightenment [or Aufklährung]
On Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Sketch [or Zum ewigen Freiden. Ein philosophischer Entwurf; accept words such as “Toward”, “To,” or “For” before Perpetual Peace]&lt;SSp&gt;
A Tolstoy essay argues that examples of this thing should “infect” the observer with powerful emotion. For 10 points each:
Name this creative human activity which is often subjected to aesthetic philosophy or judged by taste. Examples of it include paintings, symphonies, and sculptures.
This follower of Kant offered artistic experiences as one way out of the endless misery of unfulfilled desires in his magnum opus, The World as Will and Idea.
Schopenhauer was inspired by a Latin translation of these Indian texts, which include the Chandogya and sometimes interpret the more sacred Vedas.
artistry [or works of art; or fine arts]
Arthur Schopenhauer
Upanishads [or Oupnekhat] &lt;MJ&gt;
Time travel leads to several of these statements, including one in which a male traveler can kill his assumed grandfather, or marry his grandmother and become his own grandfather. For 10 points each:
Name this contradictory or logically puzzling class of statements which includes the phrase “I always lie.”
One ancient Greek of this name from Elea developed paradoxes involving an arrow in flight and a race between Achilles and the tortoise, which seem to prove that motion is impossible.
The ravens paradox, which implies that since all roses are red all ravens must therefore be black, questions this mode of reasoning which David Hume called into question for its often-false conclusions.
paradoxes
Zeno
induction [or inductive reasoning] &lt;MJ&gt;
This thinker’s namesake Forms are idealized concept-objects in a realm real beings should strive to reach through philosophy. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher, the most famous author of dialogues about his teacher Socrates.
In this Plato dialogue, Aristophanes tells how humans originally had two-heads and four legs before Zeus cut them apart. Later, Socrates explains Diotima's teachings about love to the hung-over men at a banquet.
The title Athenian citizen of this Plato dialogue is on his way to prosecute his father. In it, Socrates tries to define the nature of piety.
Plato [or Platon; or Aristocles]
Symposium [or Sympousion]
Euthyphro &lt;DSteinberg&gt;
He critiqued Spinoza and Hume in "The Sentiment of Rationality." For 10 points each:
Identify this philosopher who described the "stream of thought" in Principles of Psychology and discussed  mysticism in The Varieties of Religious Experience.
William James and C. S. Peirce founded this philosophical school whose core maxim emphasizes the  importance of clear concepts and practical consequences.
This pragmatist analyzed the relationship between the title concepts in Democracy and Education and defended  democratic ideals in The Public and Its Problems.
William James
pragmatism
John Dewey
He cited Horace's "Sapere Aude" as part of the transition out of immaturity in What is Enlightenment? For 10 points each: 
Name this philosopher who concluded that metaphysics is inherently dialectical in his Critique of Pure Reason. He also wrote the Critique of Judgment and the Metaphysics of Morals.
Kant introduced this term that refers to the subjective experience of noumena. Kant claimed that knowledge was limited to these appearances of things, which are the only directly observable objects.
This philosopher and author of Cartesian Meditations founded phenomenology, which studies the consciousness and its understanding of phenomena.
Immanuel Kant
phenomena
Edmund Husserl 
Answer the following questions about Classical philosophers, for 10 points each.
One philosopher of this name from Elea was a student of Parmenides, and according to a Platonic dialogue, debated a young Socrates. His paradoxes of motion feature the motionless arrow and Achilles racing a tortoise.
Another philosopher, Zeno of Citium, founded this school of philosophy, whose adherents included Epictetus and the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius. It proposed that virtue was the only good.
Another Roman stoic philosopher was this man, who advised the Emperor Nero and was forced to commit suicide after the Pisonian conspiracy. His dialogues include On the shortness of life and On the happy life.
Zeno
Stoicism
Seneca the Younger
Immanuel Kant's transcendental aesthetic defines this as the a priori ability to perceive oneself, and Bergson contrasted this concept with "free will." For 10 points each:
Name this concept central to  a Martin Heidegger work that developed the concept of Dasein, in which it is contrasted with "Being".
Martin Heidegger later joined the Nazis, whose central philosophy came from this anti-Semitic autobiography presaging Germany's invasion of Russia, written by an imprisoned Adolf Hitler.
Martin Heidegger was involved with this female Jewish philosopher, but things got awkward after he went Nazi. She described the "banality of evil" in the title Nazi in Eichmann in Jerusalem, and analyzed fascist governments in the pre-war world in The Origins of Totalitarianism.
time
Mein Kampf [accept My Struggle]
Hannah Arendt
Immanuel Kant's transcendental aesthetic defines this as the a priori ability to perceive oneself, and Bergson contrasted this concept with "free will." For 10 points each:
Name this concept central to  a Martin Heidegger work that developed the concept of Dasein, in which it is contrasted with "Being".
Martin Heidegger later joined the Nazis, whose central philosophy came from this anti-Semitic autobiography presaging Germany's invasion of Russia, written by an imprisoned Adolf Hitler.
Martin Heidegger was involved with this female Jewish philosopher, but things got awkward after he went Nazi. She described the "banality of evil" in the title Nazi in Eichmann in Jerusalem, and analyzed fascist governments in the pre-war world in The Origins of Totalitarianism.
time
Mein Kampf [accept My Struggle]
Hannah Arendt
