An incredible stock market bubble, agricultural failures, a high amount of personal debt, and numerous other factors contributed to this decade-long economic catastrophe. For 10 points each,
Give this two-word term for the massive recession of the world's economy in the 1930's.
This U.S. President was in office during the stock market crash in 1929 and the start of the Great Depression.
Hoover opened this governmental agency in 1932 to loan nearly two billion dollars per year to banks and businesses to re-start the nation's economy.
Great Depression
Herbert Hoover
Reconstruction Finance Corporation
Bridges are often important military objectives, as they can create chokepoints to slow an army's advance or retreat. For 10 points each,
In 312 CE, Constantine I soundly defeated Maxentius at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge, which spans this major river of Rome. Maxentius drowned in this river's waters during the battle.
Harold Godwinson defeated Harald Hardrada at the Battle of Stamford Bridge just a month before dying to William the Conqueror’s forces at this 1066 battle.
In 1297, this kingdom defended its freedom at Stirling Bridge by routing a surrounded English army. This kingdom's forces at Stirling Bridge were led by Andrew Moray and William Wallace.
Tiber River
Battle of Hastings
Kingdom of Scotland
For 10 points each, give the following about early American agriculture.
The Jamestown colony was heavily supported by the export of this crop, which was grown by John Rolfe and introduced to Europe by Sir Walter Raleigh.
Tobacco rivaled a certain textile crop as the primary export of the South until 1793, when this machine simplified production of a certain textile crop by quickly separating the seeds from the fiber.
This businessman invented the cotton gin in 1793.
tobacco
cotton gin (prompt on "gin")
Eli Whitney
For 10 points each, give the following about surprise attacks in Japanese history.
Admiral Yamamoto Isoroku planned the bombing of this Hawaiian naval base on December 7th, 1941 that sparked US involvement in World War II.
In 1904, Japan's navy attacked this country's fleet at Port Arthur, three hours before officially declaring war against it. The ensuing war between this country and Japan ended with the Treaty of Portsmouth, which was brokered by Teddy Roosevelt.
In the 1560 Battle of Okehazama, this daimyo's forces sneaked to the rear of the opposing army, killing the opposing leader at his tent. This unifier of Japan was succeeded by Toyotomi Hideyoshi and Tokugawa Ieyasu.
Pearl Harbor
Russia (accept Russian Empire; do not accept "USSR" or "Soviet Union")
Oda Nobunaga
Some conspiracy theorists claim that a gunman involved in this event stood on a grassy knoll, either in addition to or instead of a gunman in the Texas School Book Depository. For 10 points each,
Name this November 22nd, 1963 event in which Texas governor John Connolly was wounded.
The Warren Commission concluded that this man was the lone gunman responsible for Kennedy's death. After fleeing from the Book Depository, he killed police officer J.D. Tippit before being captured in a movie theater.
While being transported out of police headquarters, Oswald was fatally shot by this nightclub owner.
assassination of John F. Kennedy (accept equivalents for "assassination;" accept "JFK" for "Kennedy;" prompt on "assassination of Kennedy" alone)
Lee Harvey Oswald
Jack Leon Ruby (accept Jack Leon Rubenstein)
This man's self-written epitaph notes that he authored a statute for religious freedom and the Declaration of Independence and founded a university. For 10 points each,
Name this Founding Father, whose epitaph neglected to mention his service as the third President of the United States.
In 1819, Jefferson founded this university in Charlottesville in his home state.
Jefferson taught himself architecture, studying the work of Andrea Palladio, so he could design this mansion on his plantation near Charlottesville.
Thomas Jefferson
University of Virginia
Monticello
These Catholic rulers introduced the Inquisition into their land and issued the 1492 Alhambra decree, requiring all Jews to convert or leave within months. For 10 points each,
Name these two rulers, who nominally united the kingdoms of Aragon and Castille with their 1469 marriage. As rulers, they supported a number of important exploration projects.
Ferdinand and Isabella funded this Genoan admiral, who landed in the Bahamas with a three-ship fleet in 1492.
Also in 1492, Ferdinand and Isabella finished a war against the Nasrid dynasty in Granada, ending Muslim control in Iberia and finalizing this roughly eight-century-long period of Christian/Muslim conflict.
Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile (accept the Catholic Monarchs)
Christopher Columbus (accept Cristóbal Colón)
Reconquista
In 1845, a British flagstaff was controversially cut down in this modern country, sparking a year of war with the Maori. For 10 points each,
Name this Oceanic nation consisting of a North Island, South Island, and many small islands roughly one thousand miles east of Australia.
The Maori are often compared with this group of indigenous Australians in terms of how they were treated by Western colonists after their discovery in Oceania.
The British colonists signed this treaty with the Maori in 1840, giving control of New Zealand to Britain. Wording differences between the English and Maori versions of the treaty have led many to believe it is invalid.
New Zealand
Aboriginal Australians (or Aborigines)
Treaty of Waitangi
This poem was originally titled for a "Defense of" a fort that was shelled during the War of 1812, and it was set to the tune of "To Anacreon in Heaven," a contemporary drinking song. For 10 points each,
Name this song written by Francis Scott Key. It was declared the American national anthem by President Hoover in 1931.
Key was inspired to write the lyrics for The Star-Spangled Banner after seeing the flag rise above this fort.
Fort McHenry defends this Maryland city's harbor on the Chesapeake Bay.
The Star-Spangled Banner
Fort McHenry
Baltimore
Brutalism is an architectural style that uses massive concrete buildings to give an impression of strength and modernity but, to many, it's incredibly outdated and ugly. For 10 points each,
This city saw a seven-year debate over demolishing a Brutalist-inspired church on K Street; its parishioners wanted to replace it with an updated building. Other Brutalist buildings here include FBI Headquarters.
The Prentice Women's Hospital at Northwestern University in Evanston, just north of this large Midwestern city, is also being torn down. This city's mayor, Rahm Emanuel, has supported its replacement with a new medical facility.
This city's downtown Mummers Theater was scheduled for demolition in 2014 thanks to flooding. The site is roughly a mile from a memorial at the former Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, site of a 1995 bombing.
Washington, D.C.
Chicago, Illinois
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (prompt on "OKC")
This power was the subject of the 2005 Supreme Court case <em>Kelo v. City of New London</em>, which resulted in ninety acres of homes being bulldozed; after the Great Recession, the land currently sits vacant. For 10 points each,
This two word phrase refers to the power of local governments to seize private property for public use, such as the building of schools.
The city of New London is about an hour's drive southeast of this state's capital city of Hartford.
In 1965, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Estelle Griswold, a Planned Parenthood director who argued that Connecticut's ban on this type of medicine was illegal. Foreshadowing Roe v. Wade's legalization of abortion, the Supreme Court argued that the ban on this type of health care violated the right to privacy.
eminent domain
Connecticut
contraception (accept birth control and any other equivalent that describes the prevention of pregnancy; prompt on “the pill;” do not accept “abortion”)
These wars began at the First Battle of St. Albans, and they are named for the flowery badges of the competing factions. For 10 points each,
Name these wars between the House of Lancaster and House of York. They ended with the rise of the House of Tudor.
At the First Battle of St. Albans, the Yorkists captured the Lancastrian king, the sixth of this regnal name. The House of Tudor provided the seventh and eighth kings of this name.
Richard III died at this 1485 battle when the relatively-neutral Stanley family, seeing Richard in single combat, rushed in to assist Henry Tudor, who was then crowned King Henry VII. This decisive battle essentially ended the War of the Roses.
War(s) of the Roses
Henry (accept Henry VI, VII, and/or VIII)
Battle of Bosworth Field
It may not pay as much as a private sector job, but working in Washington does have its benefits. For 10 points each,
This is the annual salary of the President, not counting benefits or expense accounts. Thanks to a pay raise in 1999, this number is currently double the amount that President Clinton earned.
Congressional salaries are determined by Congress itself, and until 1992, Congress could simply vote itself a pay raise. This most recently ratified amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires Congressional pay raises to take effect during the next term.
In addition, members of Congress have a limited form of this privilege, the free use of the postal service for official business.
$400,000 (four hundred thousand dollars)
27th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution
franking
When Nazi Germany invaded and conquered a country, they supported pro-German governments to rule the new territory. For 10 points each,
Philippe Pétain [pay-TAAN], a former war hero at the Battle of Verdun, was appointed leader of the Vichy puppet government in this country, which signed a peace treaty with the Germans in 1940.
This country allied with the Germans under Miklos Horthy until 1944, when the Soviet army invaded and Hitler replaced Horthy with Ferenc Szalasi. Shortly thereafter, the Soviets began a siege of this country's capital, Budapest.
As the Germans invaded Norway in 1940, this man led a Nazi-supported coup; he later led Norway as a collaborationist state. After the war, he was convicted of high treason and executed, and his name remains a Norwegian synonym for "traitor."
France
Kingdom of Hungary
Vidkun Quisling
This man achieved his goals using satyagraha, or the force of truth. For ten points each:
Name this leader who advocated nonviolence to help India achieve independence. In 1948, he was assassinated by Nathuram Godse.
In the early 1930s, Mahatma Gandhi fasted to gain civil rights for this lowest caste of Indian society, whom Gandhi called Harijan, or children of Vishnu.
Gandhi began his political activism fighting for the civil rights of Indians in this country. Until 1994, this country was the home of the system of racial segregation called apartheid.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (or Mahatma Gandhi)
untouchables (accept Dalit)
South Africa
Six different flags have "flown over" Texas; that is, six different countries have existed on Texan land. For 10 points each,
These two European rivals controlled Texan land; one ruled it for three centuries until the independence of Mexico, while the other briefly held a small portion of it as part of the Louisiana Territory. Name both European countries.
Texas gained its independence from Mexico in 1836, forming the independent Republic of Texas, which lasted until this U.S. President officially completed the annexation of Texas in December 1845.
The sixth flag over Texas belonged to this nation, led by Jefferson Davis, which Texas joined on March 2, 1861.
Spain and France (prompt on one answer alone)
James K(nox) Polk
Confederate States of America (accept Confederacy and other word forms)
After failing to accomplish this event with a bomb, Nedeljko Cabrinovic [neh-dyell-koh kah-bree-noh- vich] failed to commit suicide by swallowing weak cyanide and jumping into a five-inch deep river. For 10 points each,
Name this June 28, 1914 event that was accomplished by Gavrilo Princip. It triggered anti-Serbian demonstrations in Austria-Hungary, the July Crisis, and, eventually, World War I.
The assassination took place in this Austro-Hungarian city, now the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Princip was a member of this pro-Serbian terrorist group, which organized the attack of Franz Ferdinand's motorcade.
assassination (or murder or equivalents) of Franz Ferdinand (prompt on partial answer)
Sarajevo
Black Hand (or Unification or Death; accept Young Bosnia)
For 10 points each, give the following about labor practices in 19th century America.
Many Europeans migrated to the Americas by becoming this type of laborer, in which they exchanged several years of labor for their passage and were guaranteed their freedom at the end of the contract.
After the abolition of slavery, many former slaves worked as this type of farmer, being allowed to work a former plantation in return for a portion of the harvest.
The 1842 Massachusetts Supreme Court case Commonwealth v. Hunt ruled that these labor organizations were not subject to anti-conspiracy rules. One of these led by Samuel Gompers organized cigar makers and was part of the AFL.
indentured servants (accept word forms, like indentured servitude; prompt on servant)
sharecroppers (accept word forms, like sharecropping; accept tenant farmers and word forms, like tenant farming)
labor unions
In June 2014, this organization declared an expanded role and shortened its name to reflect a worldwide scope, though its territory remains limited to two war-torn nations. For 10 points each,
Name this militant Sunni group that has taken control of much of northwestern Iraq and eastern Syria.
In that June 2014 announcement, ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared that ISIS was this type of state, representing and ruling over all Muslims worldwide. ISIS' claim to this type of state was roundly criticized by the global community.
Some news outlets initially claimed that a December 2014 hostage crisis at a cafe in this Australian city was organized by ISIS.
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (accept IS or ISIS; accept Islamic State of Iraq and (the) Levant or ISIL; accept ad-Dawlah l-ʾIslāmiyyah)
caliphate
Sydney, Australia
Fans of two chariot racing teams, the Blues and the Greens, rioted in support of two condemned murderers in this event. For 10 points each,
Name this 532 CE riot, which burned nearly half of the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire.
The Nika Riots burned nearly half of this capital city, formerly known as Byzantium and currently known as Istanbul.
This emperor almost fled from Constantinople during the Nika Riots, but his wife Theodora convinced him to stay.
Nika Riots (accept equivalents for "riots," such as "revolts")
Constantinople (do not accept "Byzantium")
Justinian I (accept Justinian the Great; prompt on "Justinian")
This set of documents was discovered by Daniel Ellsberg, who blew the whistle on their contents by publishing them in the <em>New York Times</em> in 1971. For 10 points each,
Name this collection of papers that detailed the history of U.S. military intervention in Southeast Asia. Their leaking showed that the government extensively lied to the public about their actions.
The Pentagon Papers detailed the history of this war. Lyndon Johnson sent American troops into this war after the Gulf of Tonkin incident, and it ended with the 1975 fall of Saigon.
This President hired a group of so-called "Plumbers" to harass Ellsberg after he leaked the Pentagon Papers. The group CREEP sought to get this President re-elected by breaking into Democratic headquarters at the Watergate hotel.
Pentagon Papers
Vietnam War
Richard Milhous Nixon
For 10 points each, give the following about the aftermath of the 405 BCE Battle of Aegospotami [ay-gus-pah-tuh-mee].
At Aegospotami, Lysander led a rout of the Athenian navy, thus essentially ending this war over control of the Greek mainland.
Lysander was an admiral from this militaristic Greek city-state, which was traditionally more of a power in ground combat. After the Peloponnesian War, this city-state installed the Thirty Tyrants in Athens.
In addition to Sparta's installing of the Thirty Tyrants, they insisted that Athens tear down a set of these defensive structures. Sparta itself lacked these structures, claiming that their army itself was protection enough.
(Second) Peloponnesian War
Sparta (or Lacedaemon)
city walls (accept the Long Wall(s))
Harry Truman visited this city nearly a dozen times as President, establishing a "Little White House." For 10 points each,
Name this southernmost city of the continental United States. The 2,300-plus miles of U.S. Route 1 run from Fort Kent in Maine south through Miami to this city.
Even though Key West is geographically closer to Havana, Cuba, than it is to Miami, it’s still part of this U.S. state.
On April 23, 1982, Key West protested Border Patrol actions relating to Cuban immigration by seceding from the United States, forming this "republic" inspired by a beach shell. This republic declared war, surrendered within a minute, then applied for one billion dollars of foreign aid.
Key West
Florida
Conch Republic
A 1950s government led by this party saw Minister of Housing Harold Macmillan lead a construction boom and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden support a coup d'etat in Iran. For 10 points each,
Name this British political party, which defeated the Labour Party of Clement Attlee in 1951 elections.
This man became Prime Minister for a third time in 1951, having led the United Kingdom during much of World War II.
During his third Prime Ministership, Churchill sent British troops to capture Dedan Kimathi and put down the Mau Mau Rebellion in this African country.
Conservative Party (prompt on Tories)
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill
Kenya
Two air tragedies struck the same Southeast Asian airline in 2014. For 10 points each,
This airline lost its Flight 370 in March over the Indian Ocean and its Flight 17 to an attack over Ukraine in July.
Both airplanes were 777 models manufactured by this American company, a rival to the European aircraft maker Airbus.
Early, false reports of the crash of Flight 17 indicated that over 100 of its passengers were en route to a conference studying this disease.
Malaysia Airlines
Boeing Company
AIDS (or Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome)
This document is wary of European "ambition" and "rivalship," noting "It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world." For 10 points each,
Name this letter, published in 1796, which opens by announcing that its author would not seek a third term as President.
Washington's Farewell Address also warns against the danger of rival political parties. During Washington's presidency, the Federalist Party had been founded by Alexander Hamilton and this rival party had been founded by Thomas Jefferson.
Washington's worries about party conflict came true in the Election of 1796, which Jefferson lost to this Federalist, who became the second U.S. President.
George Washington's Farewell Address (there is no official title to this work, so accept any equivalent that describes "the farewell letter (or speech) written by George Washington;" prompt on partial answers, such as "Washington's speech" or "Farewell Address" alone; accept reasonable equivalents to "farewell" in all of the above directions)
Democratic-Republican Party (do not accept or prompt on partial answer)
John Adams (prompt on Adams; do not accept John Quincy Adams)
Operation Paul Bunyan used helicopters, bombers, and an offshore aircraft carrier to support the removal of a tree from this region near Panmunjom. For 10 points each,
Name this no-man's-land along the 38th parallel. It was created in a July 1953 armistice.
The DMZ was created at the end of this war. At various points in this war, the capitals of Seoul and Pyongyang were each captured by enemy forces.
This American general led an offensive into North Korea to the Yalu River that triggered Chinese involvement in the war. President Truman removed him from command for insubordination in 1951.
Demilitarized Zone (or DMZ) (accept, but do not otherwise reveal, any additional information that describes the DMZ as being between North and South Korea)
Korean War
Douglas MacArthur
This ruler defeated King Guthrum at Edington and signed the Treaty of Wedmore. For 10 points each,
Name this king of Wessex who defended his country from invading forces at the Battle of Ashdown. He is the only English king to be known as “the Great.”
Alfred defeated a group of these marauding, seafaring Scandinavians at Ashdown.
The aforementioned battles were chronicled by Bishop Asser’s biography of Alfred the Great; an edited edition of that biography inserted an uncited claim that Alfred founded this oldest English university.
Alfred the Great
Vikings (accept Danes)
University of Oxford
For 10 points each, give the following about containment, the official US policy for stopping the spread of communism.
Containment of communism was necessary according to this theory, which held that if one nation fell to communism, its neighbors would be the next countries to fall.
This President issued a doctrine threatening US intervention in nations where communism looked like it might take hold. His policy provided money to Greece and Turkey and sent troops to Korea in 1950.
This President, who served between Ford and Reagan, tried to shift from containment to a more pacifist foreign policy until the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979. He won a Nobel Peace Prize in 2002, in part for his work with Habitat for Humanity.
domino theory (or domino effect or other equivalents)
Harry Truman
Jimmy Carter
Leaders of this movement founded Oberlin College in Ohio; in 1858, a mob of Oberlin residents sieged a hotel to rescue John Price, a runaway slave who had been arrested under the Fugitive Slave Act. For 10 points each,
Name this movement to end the American practice of slavery, advocated by the newspaper The Liberator and by speakers like former slave Sojourner Truth.
This man founded and published The Liberator for 36 years.
In 1854, Garrison publicly burned a copy of this document, calling it a "Covenant with Death." The final issue of The Liberator celebrated the end of slavery because this document had been amended to ban slavery.
abolitionism (accept word forms)
William Lloyd Garrison
U.S. Constitution
Mata Hari was executed by the French for this action in 1917, as were Julius and Ethel Rosenberg in 1953. For 10 points each,
Give this term for illegal secretive intelligence gathering, as often done in wartime.
In 1776, this colonial soldier and spy volunteered to scout British troop movements, but was caught and hanged. At his hanging, he legendarily said "I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country."
In 1948, a series of classified documents found in one of these plants implicated Alger Hiss in spying for the Soviet Union.
espionage or spying (or word forms)
Nathan Hale
pumpkin (accept Pumpkin Papers)
For 10 points each, give the following about the Battle of Alesia.
This group of tribes, led by Vercingetorix, lost at Alesia when the attackers surrounded their hilltop fort. These people dominated what is modern France for the last few centuries BC.
This civilization won the battle of Alesia to conquer Gaul. A set of Commentaries detailing the victory was written by a future dictator of this republic, Julius Caesar.
After the Battle of Alesia, Caesar was denied a triumph in Rome by Pompey, who had formed this political alliance with Caesar and Crassus. A similar, later alliance would form between Marc Antony, Lepidus, and Octavian.
Gauls (accept word forms like Gallic people)
Rome (accept Roman Republic)
First Triumvirate (prompt on Triumvirate; do not accept Second Triumvirate)
In 1901, a U.S. President invited an African American scholar to dinner, and was so loudly criticized that no President invited a black man to dinner for more than three decades. For 10 points each,
This African-American leader of the Tuskegee Institute, orator of the "Atlanta Compromise," and author of Up From Slavery was the honored guest.
Washington was invited by this President, who took office after the death of William McKinley. In his military career, this man fought with the "Buffalo Soldiers" as leader of the Rough Riders.
Prior to becoming President, Teddy Roosevelt served as this state's Governor; during his two year term, he ended segregation of this state's public schools.
Booker T. Washington
Theodore Roosevelt
New York
Ragnar Lodbrok was a legendary ruler of these people, who defeated Charles the Bald's army on the Seine River in 845 AD. For 10 points each,
Name this group of exploring Norse seafarers, often depicted in modern culture as rampaging berzerkers who sacked European cities like Paris.
Viking expansion beyond Scandinavia included the founding of a permanent colony on Greenland by this father of Leif Erikson.
Leif Erikson's exploration included the founding of Vinland, which included a settlement at L'anse aux Meadows [lahnz oh meadows] in this modern Canadian island province.
Vikings
Erik the Red (or Erik Thorvaldsson; prompt on Erik)
Newfoundland and Labrador
For 10 points each, give the following about Cold War-era military unions.
This anti-Soviet military alliance, named for an ocean, formed in 1949 and included the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and other European countries.
After multiple rejections from NATO, and in protest of West Germany's 1955 acceptance into NATO, the USSR organized this other military alliance, named for a Polish city. It included East Germany and other Soviet-controlled republics.
The Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, or SEATO, only included two Southeast Asian countries - the Philippines and Thailand - when it originally formed via a 1954 Pact named for this Philippine capital city.
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (or NATO)
Warsaw Pact (accept Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance)
Manila
This two-day event was organized by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and a group of Quaker reformers in upstate New York. For 10 points each,
Name this 1848 women's rights convention, which drafted the Declaration of Sentiments.
This Quaker orator's visit to Seneca Falls was the impetus for the Convention. Her husband chaired the second day of the Convention, during which she opposed a resolution demanding women's suffrage, noting it made the other resolutions less reasonable to opponents of women's rights.
This women's rights advocate was not at Seneca Falls in 1848, though her parents and sister were there and signed the Declaration of Sentiments. In 1873, she was convicted and fined $100 -- a fine she refused to pay -- for voting while female.
Seneca Falls Convention
Lucretia Mott
Susan B. Anthony
On August 9th, 2014, police officer Darren Wilson shot and killed 18-year-old Michael Brown in this city. For 10 points each,
Name this suburb of St. Louis, Missouri, where anti-police protests were met with force in summer 2014.
Wesley Lowery, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter for this newspaper, was arrested while covering the Ferguson protests. Other Pulitzer-winning journalism from this Washington, D.C. newspaper was done by Woodward and Bernstein, who exposed the Watergate scandal.
A few weeks prior to the death of Michael Brown, Eric Garner was killed in New York City by a police officer using this illegal procedure. The NYPD contend that this police officer used a headlock, not this procedure.
Ferguson, Missouri
The Washington Post
chokehold (prompt on “choking”)
The current holder of this position recorded 20 points, 11 rebounds, and 6 assists in the 2014 NBA All-Star Celebrity Game. For 10 points each,
Name this Cabinet position, currently held by Arne Duncan, the former CEO of the Chicago Public Schools.
As Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan ranks 15th in this constitutional list, which is topped by the Vice President, the Speaker of the House, and the President pro tempore of the Senate.
This other Cabinet position has been filled by Janet Napolitano and Jeh [JAY] Johnson in the Obama administration. It is last in line of Presidential succession, as its department was created most recently, in 2001.
U.S. Secretary (or Department) of Education
(Line of) Presidential succession (accept equivalents that describe the order in which a presidential vacancy is filled; prompt on partial response)
U.S. Secretary (or Department) of Homeland Security
In this event, Father Gapon organized a peaceful march in St. Petersburg that was met by the Tsar's troops; hundreds of people were killed. For 10 points each,
Name this event, which started the 1905 Russian Revolution. The name of this event applies to numerous other massacres, including one of Irish protesters by the British army in 1972.
The Russian Bloody Sunday took place at this building, the official residence of the Romanov family, though they hadn't actually lived in this home since a bombing attempt on Alexander II in 1880.
This final Romanov Tsar refused to meet the protesters on Bloody Sunday. His family was arrested and executed in the Bolshevik Revolution.
Bloody Sunday
Winter Palace
Nicholas II
This city's Bürgerbräukeller was the site of an uprising on November 8th, 1923 supported by Erich Ludendorff. For 10 points each,
Name this Bavarian city, the site of Adolf Hitler's failed Beer Hall Putsch.
The Beer Hall Putsch sought to overthrow the Weimar [VYE-mar] Republic and bring this political party to power. This party took power in Germany in 1932, establishing the Third Reich.
In 1934, Hitler ordered this purge of critics, left-wing Nazis, and leaders of the SA, including Ernst Rohm.
Munich
Nazi Party (accept Nazis, National Socialist German Workers’ Party, Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, or NSDAP)
Night of the Long Knives(accept Operation Hummingbird, or Nacht der langen Messer)
This case arose from John Adams' controversial lame-duck appointment of "Midnight Judges," whose appointments Thomas Jefferson refused to recognize. For 10 points each,
Name this landmark 1803 case, in which Chief Justice John Marshall established the process of judicial review.
Judicial review is the process by which this body, led by the Chief Justice, invalidates laws that violate the "supreme law of the land,” the U.S. Constitution
The Supremacy Clause, which makes the Constitution the "supreme law of the land," is found in this article of the Constitution, which also requires members of Congress, judges, and other officers to swear oaths to support the Constitution.
Marbury v. Madison (or the reverse order)
Supreme Court of the United States
Article Six of the U.S. Constitution
Eugene Debs was arrested in the aftermath of this event, after which he became a Socialist. For 10 points each,
Name this railroad strike and boycott that crippled transportation in 1894.
This President ordered federal troops to break the Pullman Strike, then established Labor Day as a national holiday to ease tensions. He served two non-consecutive terms as U.S. President.
President Cleveland ordered the end of the strike because it was disrupting this service of the federal government.
Pullman Strike
Grover Cleveland
Mail delivery
This organization's members overthrew the Qing Dynasty with the Revolutionary Alliance in 1912. For 10 points each,
Name this Chinese political party, led by Sun Yat-sen until his 1925 death.
After Sun Yat-sen's death, this anti-Communist military leader took control of the Kuomintang and led the Northern Expedition to unify China.
This Chairman of the Chinese Communist Party opposed Chiang Kai-shek; after this man's victory in the Chinese Civil War, Kai-shek evacuated to Taiwan.
Kuomintang (or KMT)
Chiang Kai-shek
Mao Zedong
It only existed in 1860 and 1861, as the completing of the first transcontinental telegraph rendered this expensive and dangerous mail delivery service obsolete. For 10 points each,
Name this short-lived mail service, in which relay teams of horseback riders delivered mail from station to station across the American West.
This rider for the Pony Express later toured the world with his "Wild West" show, which employed Annie Oakley and Sitting Bull.
Much of the Pony Express route followed this general trail, which led wagon trains from Missouri to the Willamette Valley on the Pacific Ocean.
Pony Express
William "Buffalo Bill" Cody (accept Buffalo Bill; prompt on Bill)
Oregon Trail
This period was established by a Constitutional amendment and the passing of the Volstead Act. For 10 points each,
Name this period of time from 1920 to 1933, during which alcohol was banned within the United States.
Prohibition was established by this Constitutional amendment, which was repealed by the 21st amendment.
This supporter of Prohibition famously took a hatchet to barrels of liquor in saloons, being arrested dozens of times for destroying bars.
Prohibition
18th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution
Carrie A(melia) (Moore) Nation
For 10 points each, give the following about the end of the unsuccessful rule of Louis XVI.
Louis XVI was executed in this decade long period of unrest which began with the storming of the Bastille.
Shortly after Louis’ execution, this lawyer founded the Committee of Public Safety. His Reign of Terror ended with the Thermidorian Reaction and his execution.
After nearly allowing Louis XVI to escape, Robespierre accused this French general of treason. This friend of George Washington led troops in the American Revolution.
French Revolution
Maximilien François Marie Isidore Robespierre
Marie-Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier de Lafayette (accept Marquis de Lafayette)
Gran Colombia was established by this leader. For 10 points each,
Name this South American “Liberator” who spread democracy through Latin America.
During the Admirable Campaign, Bolivar issued this Decree as a response to Spanish massacres. This order permitted murder of Spanish born citizens opposing independence.
Bolivar issued the Decree of War to the Death from this South American country; Bolivar freed its city of Caracas during the Admirable Campaign.
Simon Bolivar
Decree of War to the Death
Venezuela
