During one voyage, this man crushed the Kingdom of Kotte (“KO-tay”) in Sri Lanka and brought its king Alakesvara (“AH-luh-KESH-wuh-ruh”) back to China. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese explorer who led a fleet of massive treasure ships in voyages to Southeast Asia, India, and the Persian Gulf in the early 15th century.
Zheng’s explorations occurred under this Chinese dynasty that ruled from 1368 until it was toppled by the Qing (“cheeng”). Zheng’s expeditions were briefly defunded amidst conflict by this dynasty against their predecessors, the Yuan (“yoo-EN”).
This Ming emperor seized the throne with Zheng’s help and sponsored his voyages. This ruler moved China’s capital to Beijing and commissioned the Porcelain Tower and the Forbidden City.
Zheng He (“jung huh”) [or Cheng Ho Ma He; or Ma Sangbao; prompt on He or Ho or Sangbao]
Ming dynasty [or Empire of the Great Ming; or Ming Chao]
Yongle (“YUNG-luh”) emperor [or Zhu Di] &lt;World History&gt;
A tremendous galleon known as the <em>Adler</em>, or “Eagle,” of this city was ignobly repurposed for undertaking trade missions to Spain after not being sent on military campaigns against Sweden. For 10 points each:
Name this “Free City.” This “Queen” of a certain medieval organization was considered one of the “Five Glories” of the Holy Roman Empire, along with Florence, Rome, Pisa, and Venice.
Lübeck served as the leading city of this trade confederation that dominated Northern Europe during the Middle Ages. This organization constructed trading posts known as kontor from London to Novgorod.
Early Hanseatic voyages often had to deal with the Victual Brothers, a guild of individuals in this profession. Charles Johnson’s General History of these people mentions their common usage of the Jolly Roger flag design.
Lübeck [accept the Free City of Lübeck; accept the Adler von Lübeck or the Eagle of Lübeck]
Hanseatic League [accept the Deutsche Hanse or the Hansa Teutonica; accept De Hanze]
pirates [accept A General History of the Pyrates; prompt on privateers] &lt;European History&gt;
A leader of this country outlined his vision for a socialist future based on principles like <em>ujamaa</em> (“oo-JAH-mah”) in the Arusha Declaration. For 10 points each:
Name this East African country that was formed in 1964 as a union between a former German colony and an archipelago off its coast.
Before merging with Zanzibar, mainland Tanzania won independence from this colonial power that seized control of it from Germany after World War I. This country also colonized Egypt, Kenya, and South Africa.
For the first 21 years of its history, Tanzania was led by this socialist president who issued the Arusha Declaration. His government overthrew Ugandan dictator Idi Amin in 1979.
Tanzania
United Kingdom [or Great Britain; or UK; do not accept or prompt on “England”]
Julius Nyerere &lt;World History&gt;
The princess Honoria was nearly executed for sending her engagement ring to this man, who took it as a signal to begin his most notable military campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this man who proceeded to claim half of the Western Roman Empire as his wedding dowry. This so-called “Scourge of God” may have murdered his brother Bleda to attain complete rule over the Huns.
Attila led the Huns at this 451 AD battle, where he fought an inconclusive bloodbath against Flavius Aetius and Theodoric I. The year after this battle, Attila’s invasion of Italy was halted after negotiations with Pope Leo I.
Theodoric I was a leader of these people, who had earlier sacked Rome in 410 AD under Alaric. These people are often contrasted with their counterparts from farther east.
Attila the Hun
Battle of Châlons (“sha-LON”) [or Battle of the Catalaunian Plains; or Battle of the Catalaunian Fields; or Battle of the Campus Mauriacus; or Battle of Maurica; or Battle of Troyes]
Visigoths [or Visigothi; or Wisigothi; or Vesi; or Wesi; prompt on Goths; do not accept or prompt on “Ostrogoths”] &lt;European History&gt;
In this state, 11 children suffocated to death when National Guardsmen set fire to a strikers’ camp in the Ludlow Massacre. For 10 points each:
Name this western state where more than 200 people died during its namesake “Coalfield War” in 1913 and 1914.
The Baldwin–Felts detective agency, which harassed miners in the leadup to the Ludlow Massacre, also opposed striking miners in this coal-rich state during the Matewan Massacre and 1921 Battle of Blair Mountain.
Strikers killed in the Ludlow Massacre worked in a mine owned by a member of this family, whose patriarch founded Standard Oil. Their namesake “center” in New York City houses the offices of NBC.
Colorado
West Virginia
Rockefeller family [accept John D. Rockefeller Sr. or John D. Rockefeller Jr.] &lt;American History&gt;
In this city, sultan Ulugh Beg built a massive namesake observatory. For 10 points each:
Name this Central Asian city, a center of Islamic culture that served as the capital of Tamerlane’s Timurid empire.
Babur, a descendant of Timur, alternately captured and lost Samarkand three times before successfully invading India and founding this dynasty. Later rulers of this Muslim dynasty included Akbar the Great.
Samarkand’s beauty and irrigation were praised by this Moroccan scholar who travelled across the medieval world in the 14th century. He chronicled his adventures in his Rihla.
Samarkand
Mughal dynasty [or Mughal empire of Gurkani]
Muhammad Ibn Battuta &lt;World History&gt;
Thanks to the detailed nature of the only surviving eyewitness account of this event and DNA evidence found in mass graves near Kerameikos, modern researchers have hypothesized typhoid to be its cause. For 10 points each:
Name this calamity that began by entering the port of Piraeus. Prior to losing his sons Paralus and Xanthippus to this event, one ruler began a mass eulogy by describing past funeral processions carried out by his people.
That eyewitness was Thucydides, who caught said plague before writing his History of the Peloponnesian War, which chronicles a conflict between Athens and this other Greek, militaristic city-state.
In spurning the contemporary miasma (“my-AZ-muh”) theory in favor of a belief in actual contagions, Thucydides preempted this Greek doctor from Kos, whose namesake “Oath” provides ethical standards for all doctors to abide by.
the Plague of Athens [accept epidemic or sickness or synonyms in place of “plague”; prompt on plague or synonyms by asking “where was the plague?”]
Sparta [accept Lacedaemon]
Hippocrates of Kos [accept the Hippocratic Oath] &lt;European History&gt;
Chanakya helped this empire’s founder conquer the Nanda empire. For 10 points each:
Name this empire founded by Chandragupta in the 4th century BC. It built the Grand Trunk Road.
While serving Chandragupta, Chanakya compiled this Machiavelli-esque political treatise that was rediscovered in the 20th century.
Chandragupta’s grandson Ashoka the Great adhered to many of the ruthless tenets of the Arthashastra before converting to this religion. The three primary Dharmic religions of classical India were Hinduism, Jainism, and this faith.
Maurya empire [accept Mauryan empire; accept “dynasty” in place of empire]
Arthashastra
Buddhism [or Buddhist religion; accept Theravada Buddhism] &lt;World History&gt;  DO NOT READ TO GEORGIA TECH A, UCSD A
A ruler of this kingdom named Oswiu called the Synod of Whitby to settle a long-standing controversy between Rome and some Irish monks by finally nailing down the date of Easter. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Heptarchy that initially formed from the Anglian kingdoms of Deira and Bernicia. This kingdom lost the Battles of Maserfield and Hatfield Chase to a neighboring state led by Penda.
The Northumbrian Golden Age included this “venerable” monk who promoted the practice of dating years from Jesus’s birth. This historian’s masterwork chronicled Christianity’s growth throughout the British Isles until 731.
Following some evil omens, the Northumbrian monastery of Lindisfarne was destroyed by one of these events in 793. These Scandinavian military campaigns often utilized so-called “berserkers” who travelled by longship.
Kingdom of Northumbria
Venerable Bede [accept Saint Bede; accept Baeda]
Viking raids [accept attacks, invasions, incursions, or synonyms in place of “raids”; accept Norsemen, Norwegians, Danes, or Danish people in place of “Vikings”; prompt on answers mentioning raids by Swedes or Swedish people; prompt on heathens in place of “Vikings”] &lt;European History&gt;
While serving in this country, Smedley Butler won a second Medal of Honor for his work fighting <em>cacos</em> led by Charlemagne Péralte. For 10 points each:
Name this French-speaking country that U.S. forces occupied in 1915 after its president Vilbrun Guillaume Sam was toppled and killed.
The US occupation of Haiti was ordered by this president, who also ordered military interventions into the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Honduras, and Mexico. He won reelection in 1916 with the slogan “He kept us out of war.”
U.S. forces withdrew from Haiti and other Latin American countries under this policy promoted by Franklin Roosevelt that encouraged peaceful cooperation in the Americas.
Haiti [or Republic of Haiti]
Woodrow Wilson [or Thomas Woodrow Wilson]
Good Neighbor policy &lt;American History&gt;
Susenyos I was deposed after trying to convert this empire to Catholicism. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian empire in East Africa ruled by the Solomonic dynasty. It was known in the west as Abyssinia.
In the 1530s, much of northern Ethiopia was overrun by the Muslim Adal Sultanate, but was later liberated with the help of this European power that dispatched troops under Cristóvão da Gama.
Portuguese envoys to Ethiopia widely conflated it with the kingdom of this mythical Nestorian Christian ruler of the east. Earlier, this figure was believed to rule in India or Central Asia.
Ethiopia
Portugal (Cristóvão da Gama was the son of Vasco de Gama.)
Prester John [or Presbyter John; prompt on John or John the Elder] &lt;World History&gt;
In <em>A World Lit Only By Fire</em>, historian William Manchester’s off-the-cuff embellishments of this event include the fantastic claim that its participants received prizes in accordance with their respective levels of sexual prowess. For 10 points each:
Name this hedonistic party held in the Apostolic Palace in 1501. This famed orgy was named for the objects that “fifty honest prostitutes” attempted to pick up off the floor while crawling between flaming candles.
Johann Burchard’s implausible account of the Banquet of the Chestnuts was likely embellished to attack Pope Alexander VI, a member of this family, which also included the rumor-haunted Lucrezia among its numbers.
Cesare Borgia (“CHEZ-ah-ray BOR-juh”) served as the direct inspiration for this early modern political treatise, an analysis of statecraft and government written by Niccolò Macchiavelli.
the Banquet of the Chestnuts [both parts are necessary; or the Ballet of the Chestnuts]
House of Borgia [or Borja]
The Prince [or Il Principe; or De Principatibus; or Of Principalities] &lt;European History&gt;
After his sister married James I, a king of this name often visited for alcohol-soaked soirées, including one where he ruined a play by getting the actors drunk, and then collapsed after being “smeared with jelly and cream.” For 10 points each:
Give this name of ten kings who ruled the same country as part of the House of Oldenburg. A king of this name briefly and inconsequentially intervened in the Thirty Years’ War, before he withdrew under the Treaty of Lübeck.
Christians I (“one”) through X (“ten”) all ruled from this Scandinavian country, whose cities of Roskilde (“ROSS-keel-ih”) and Copenhagen served as the capitals of the Kalmar Union throughout its existence.
Not all Christians are Christ-like! The tyrannical buffoon Christian II massacred this city’s nobility in its namesake “Bloodbath,” inadvertently contributing to the later rise of the Vasa (“VAW-sah”) dynasty.
Christian [accept Christian IV; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, any numbered Christian of Denmark] (The sister in the lead-in is Anne of Denmark.)
Denmark [or Kingdom of Denmark; or Kongeriget Danmark]
Stockholm, Sweden [accept Stockholm Bloodbath] &lt;European History&gt;
This scholar was forced to choose between execution and castration for defending Li Ling after Li was captured by the Xiongnu (“sh’yung-noo”). For 10 points each:
Name this thinker who accepted castration in order to finish his magnum opus, Records of the Grand Historian, which covers 2500 years of Chinese history.
After chronicling the lives of the mythical Five Emperors, the Records of the Grand Historian describes this legendary first Chinese dynasty that was founded by Yu the Great and was succeeded by the Shang.
Sima Qian completed his Records during the long reign of Emperor Wu, a ruler from this dynasty. It emerged after the collapse of the Qin and names China’s majority ethnic group.
Sima Qian (“suh-mah ch’yen”) [prompt on Qian]
Xia (“sh’yah”) dynasty
Han dynasty &lt;World History&gt;
Answer the following about “dirty tricks” employed by the Nixon campaign during the 1972 presidential election, for 10 points each.
The Committee to Re-elect the President funded an attempt to bug the Democratic National Committee’s offices in this curved D.C. building. The ensuing scandal named for this building eventually forced Nixon to resign in 1974.
The Nixon administration got this Alabama governor to run for president as a Democrat in exchange for ending an IRS probe. In 1968, he ran for president on the pro-segregationist American Independent ticket.
During the Democratic primaries, Nixon operatives forged the so-called “Canuck Letter,” which alleged that this Maine senator and former running mate of Hubert Humphrey was prejudiced against French Canadians.
Watergate building [or Watergate complex or Watergate scandal]
George Wallace [or George Corley Wallace Jr.]
Edmund Muskie [or Edmund Sixtus Muskie] &lt;American History&gt;
While Malatesta Novello founded the first of these buildings to be open to the public, his trust only went so far, as he had most of its belongings chained to the walls, and punished all theft with excommunication. For 10 points each:
Name these buildings that often operated via a subscription model. In an 1879 “great scare,” “circulating” types of these buildings were spurned after objects found in them were described as perfect vectors for disease.
The idea of the library being a location where all may receive knowledge is strongly compatible with the humanistic ideals central to this 18th-century time period that saw the rise of liberalism and the scientific revolution.
Libraries shifted from repositories of rare tomes to sharers of useful information mostly thanks to this German, who introduced the printing press to Europe.
libraries [accept Malatestiana Library; accept chained library or subscription library or circulating library] (The last event referred to is the “Great Book Scare.”)
the Enlightenment [or the Age of Enlightenment; or Age of Reason]
Johannes Gutenberg [or Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg] &lt;European History&gt;
Jonathan Wainwright became the highest-ranking American POW (“P-O-W”) in World War II after surrendering in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this East Asian country captured by Japanese forces in June 1942. Douglas MacArthur declared “I shall return” after fleeing this country following the fall of Manila.
Wainwright was captured on this Filipino island that guarded the entrance to Manila Bay. Its fall forced the surrender of most remaining U.S. forces in the country.
Two months earlier, 76,000 American and Filipino troops surrendered on this peninsula on Luzon and were led on its namesake “death march.”
Philippines [or Republic of the Philippines; or Commonwealth of the Philippines]
Corregidor (“ko-RAY-hee-dor”)
Bataan Peninsula [accept Bataan Death March] &lt;American History&gt;
This man suppressed communists within his party in the April 12 purge. For 10 points each:
Name this generalissimo who was forced to form a united front against Japan after being kidnapped in the Xi’an (“shee-ahn”) Incident.
Chiang and his Kuomintang party fought alongside Mao’s communists against Japan after this 1937 incident, named for a landmark outside Beijing, that triggered the Second Sino-Japanese War.
After losing the Chinese Civil War, Chiang and the Kuomintang fled to this island, which he led until his death in 1975.
Chiang Kai-shek [or Jiang Jieshi]
Marco Polo Bridge incident [or Lugou bridge incident or Double Seven incident or July 7 incident or Lukouchiao or Lugouqiao]
Taiwan [or Formosa] &lt;World History&gt;
During this war, the Italian engineer Migliorino Ubaldini was sent by France’s Henry II to fortify one side’s capital, but did not come in time to prevent that side’s devastating defeat at the Battle of Pinkie Cleugh (“kluff”). For 10 points each:
Name this 1543 war that began after a proposed marriage alliance between an infant Mary Stuart and the future Edward VI of England fell through.
This angry Tudor monarch began the Rough Wooing, possibly to weaken French holdings in Scotland. He married six different women.
The child king Edward VI had barely reached double digits when he had to face Kett’s Rebellion, which aimed to end this unfortunate English practice of unifying many parcels of public land into a single privately-owned farm.
the War of the Rough Wooing [accept the Rough Wooing; prompt on the Anglo-Scottish Wars; prompt on descriptions of a conflict between England and Scotland]
Henry VIII of England [prompt on Henry]
enclosure [or word forms; prompt on consolidation or consolidating land] &lt;European History&gt;
After 30 tons of nails were driven into a grand statue of this man in Berlin as part of a drive to support war widows, citizens in London’s East End built a similar parody, with all of the nails in the statue’s face. For 10 points each:
Name this President of Germany who had earlier been the hero at the Battle of Tannenberg in World War I.
From 1925 to 1934, von Hindenburg led this post-World War I German government, a “republic” often named for the German city where its first constitution was written.
While under pressure from Adolf Hitler, von Hindenburg suspended many civil liberties in a “Decree” named for this 1933 German disaster, which was ultimately blamed on Marinus van der Lubbe and a trio of Bulgarians.
Paul von Hindenburg
Weimar Republic [or Weimarer Republik; prompt on Deutsches Reich or German Reich; do not accept or prompt on “Third Reich”]
the 1933 Reichstag fire [or Reichstagsbrand; accept a fire, arson attack, burning, or synonyms that occured at the Reichstag; prompt on Reichstag] &lt;European History&gt;
Folklore of these people claim that the Devil tried to learn their language, but gave up after seven years due to peculiarities like double word repetition. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group whose members live in baserria stone houses in cities like Gipuzkoa (“ghee-POOS-ko-ah”). A holiday of these people involves dressing in white clothing and outrunning bulls.
The Basque homeland is found along the Bay of Biscay in Spain and this other European country, which is separated from Spain by the Pyrenees.
This other Spanish autonomous community north of Portugal contains Francisco Franco’s birthplace of El Ferrol. The Way of St. James ends in this province’s city of Santiago de Compostela.
Basques [or Vascos; or Euskaldunak]
France [or the French Republic; or République française]
Galicia [or Galiza] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
The Montanist heresy originated, and was sometimes named for, this historical region, whose king supposedly committed suicide by drinking bull’s blood after an invasion by the nomadic Cimmerians. For 10 points each:
Name this Anatolian region ruled by multiple kings named Midas. According to prophecy, whichever man could solve an age-long puzzle in this region’s capital of Gordium was destined to become the king of Asia.
The Gordian Knot was sliced in half by this ancient conqueror. This young Macedonian succeeded his father Philip II, creating a massive empire that stretched across Eurasia.
Alexander’s campaigns in Asia Minor began with a victory at one of these features named Granicus. Porus was defeated in a battle named for one of these features in the last meaningful clash during Alexander’s invasion of India.
Phrygia [prompt on central Anatolia or western Anatolia; prompt on central Asia Minor or western Asia Minor]
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; or Aléxandros ho Mégas; prompt on Alexander]
a river [accept Battle of the Granicus River or Battle of the Hydaspes River] &lt;European History&gt;
In September 2019, actor Mohammad Ali began protests against this leader over failed payments to the construction company Amlaak. For 10 points each:
Name this world leader who defeated Moussa Moussa’s El-Ghad party with 97% of the vote in March 2018 elections. This leader offered voters boxes of food in exchange for supporting constitutional changes.
Ali’s protests are occurring near Tahrir Square in this country’s capital of Cairo, where earlier protests during the Arab Spring mounted opposition against Hosni Mubarak’s presidency.
Egypt and Ethiopia are at odds over one of these projects named the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance. Nubians who relocated due to one of these projects are suing the Egyptian government over rights to the Abu Simbel complex.
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi [or Abdel Fattah Saeed Hussein Khalil El-Sisi]
Egypt [or Arab Republic of Egypt]
dams on the Nile [prompt on reservoirs by asking “what projects create reservoirs?”; prompt on levees or floodgates; accept the Aswan High Dam] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
This man’s campaign for the White House was boosted by the reveal of the Murchison letter, which indicated that the British government favored his opponent. For 10 points each:
Name this Republican who won the 1888 presidential election over Grover Cleveland, but lost to him four years later. His grandfather also served as president, though only for 31 days.
Harrison signed many pieces of legislation passed by the 51st Congress, whose high spending earned it this derisive nickname in cartoons by magazines like Puck.
Though the 51st Congress did spend one billion dollars, it also raised revenue through an ultra-protectionist tariff framed by this Ohio congressman. He later won a higher office with the help of Mark Hanna.
Benjamin Harrison [prompt on Harrison; do not accept or prompt on “William Henry Harrison”]
Billion Dollar Congress
William McKinley &lt;American History&gt;
Before Chomsky and Herman, this scholar described the corrective force that manages the dissonance between “news” and “truth” as the “manufacture of consent” in <em>Public Opinion</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this scholar who coined the modern sense of “stereotype.” His opinion that democracies could not create an informed citizenry, which he advanced in The Phantom Public, was challenged in John Dewey’s The Public and Its Problems.
Lippman is considered to be the father of the modern form of this discipline, which he practiced as an editor for The New Republic. “The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved” is among Hunter S. Thompson’s “gonzo” works in this discipline.
This earlier work argues that democracies spring from “love of virtue.” Chapter 11 of this French treatise claims “there is no liberty if the judiciary power be not separated from the legislative and executive.”
Walter Lippman
journalism [or synonyms such as reporting; accept gonzo journalism]
The Spirit of the Laws [or On the Spirit of the Laws; or De l’esprit des lois] (by Baron de Montesquieu) &lt;Philosophy&gt;
During a period of violence in this country, directives like “cut down the tall trees” were broadcast by the RTLM radio station. For 10 points each:
Name this African country where the assassination of prime minister Juvénal Habyarimana in 1994 sparked a genocide against its minority Tutsi population.
Most killings during the Rwandan genocide were perpetrated by this Hutu paramilitary group. Leaders of the group like Georges Rutaganda have been convicted of crimes against humanity.
The Interahamwe were driven from Rwanda and the genocide stopped when this man’s Rwandan Patriotic Front took control of the country. This man has served as Rwanda’s authoritarian president since 2000.
Rwanda
Interahamwe
Paul Kagame &lt;World History&gt;
After signing the Treaty of Tordesillas, the Portuguese seemingly took a tour to see as many locations as possible. Answer some questions about their travels, for 10 points each.
In his diary, Portuguese Jesuit Luís Fróis observed Yasuke (“YOSS-keh”), a samurai with this unusual characteristic who was employed by Oda Nobunaga. Prior to then, Yasuke travelled to Japan with Alessandro Valignano via the nanban system.
Portuguese exploration often entailed visits to the Maluku Islands of Indonesia, where they could procure varieties of this general good, such as clove and nutmeg.
The Portuguese commonly used these snazzy ships, whose triangular, lateen sails allowed for high speed and maneuverability. They would later be largely replaced by the carrack.
African samurai [or black; accept descriptive answers that indicate his dark skin color or his African heritage; accept that he was from Mozambique, Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan, Eritrea, Somalia, or Africa as his heritage isn’t well known; prompt on being a slave by asking “from where?”; prompt on answers indicating that he wasn’t Japanese]
spices [prompt on seasonings or flavorings]
caravels [accept caravela; do not accept or prompt on “nau,” which is another word for carrack] &lt;European History&gt;
Booker T. Washington started this school after purchasing a shanty house from the Butler Chapel A.M.E. Zion Church. For 10 points each:
Name this private historically black university in Alabama where George Washington Carver began his peanut experimentation to help sharecroppers.
An investigation of experiments on syphilis performed on unknowing black sharecroppers resulted in the creation of this report, which defines modern guidelines on the ethical use of human subjects in research.
Tuskegee’s campus was designed by Robert Taylor, whose son lends his name to the Robert Taylor Homes. Then the largest housing project in the U.S, the Homes were located in this city’s neighborhood of Bronzeville.
Tuskegee University [accept Tuskegee Institute National Historic Site]
Belmont Report
Chicago &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
Most candidates in the 1992 Democratic presidential primaries looked past this state due to the candidacy of home state senator Tom Harkin. For 10 points each:
Name this midwestern state whose first-in-the-nation caucuses mark the beginning of the presidential primary season.
Iowa has held the first Democractic primary since 1972, when the party’s primary system was overhauled by a commission co-chaired by this senator. He went on to win the 1972 Democratic nomination for president but lost to Richard Nixon.
The closest ever Iowa caucus result occurred in 2012, when this former Pennsylvania senator defeated Mitt Romney by 34 votes.
Iowa
George McGovern
Rick Santorum &lt;American History&gt;
Sixteen seconds after taking off from Gibraltar, this country’s prime minister died in a disputed 1943 plane crash that was long suspected to have been orchestrated by the pilot and sole-survivor, Eduard Prchal (“pur-KHALL”). For 10 points each:
Name this country once led by Władysław Sikorski. This country’s President, Lech Kaczyński, also died in a similarly controversial plane crash in 2010 after taking off from his country’s capital, Warsaw.
This statesman died in a 1961 plane crash while travelling to hold peace talks with Moïse Tshombe (“mo-EEZ CHOM-bay”). He was the only man to win the Nobel Peace Prize posthumously, and he succeeded Trygve Lie (“TRIG-vuh LEE”) to his most famous position.
In 2016, 64 members of this country’s premier military choir died after their plane crashed into the Black Sea. Aeroflot Flight 593 crashed in this country’s Kemerovo (“KAY-meh-ro-vuh”) Oblast after the pilot’s children accidentally disengaged the autopilot.
Poland [or Republic of Poland; or Polska]
Dag Hammarskjöld (“dog HA-mar-hweld”)
Russia [or Russian Federation; or Rossiya] (The choir was called the Red Army Choir or Alexandrov Ensemble.) &lt;European History&gt;
This empire’s conquest of the Sosso kingdom helped it assert control over trade routes across the Sahara. For 10 points each:
Name this West African empire founded by Sundiata Keita in the 13th century. It was later eclipsed by the Songhai Empire.
This mansa of Mali legendarily caused the price of gold to plummet across the Middle East through the generosity he showed during a 1325 pilgrimage to Mecca.
Description acceptable. Mansa Musa took power after his predecessor, Abu Bakr II, supposedly disappeared while trying to perform this action. Rutgers professor Ivan Van Sertima tried to prove that Abu Bakr succeeded in this action by cherry-picking passages from Bartolomé de las Casas.
Mali Empire [or Manden Kurufaba]
Mansa Musa [or Musa Keita I]
crossing the Atlantic ocean [accept descriptive equivalents indicating that Abu Bakr disappeared in the course of exploring the ocean; accept discovering the Americas or discovering the New World or equivalents; accept sailing west] &lt;World History&gt;
The Elbe (“ELL-buh”) River is home to a number of submerged stones whose purpose is to remind future generations about the eventuality of these events. For 10 points each:
Name these events that may be explained by the “entitlement” approach. One of these events in the 14th century likely inspired the legend of Hansel and Gretel, and was precipitated by a series of depressing rainy seasons.
In the 1840s, the affliction of a variety of this crop known as the “Lumper” with a namesake “blight” resulted in a devastating famine that reduced the Irish population by 20%.
During World War II, the Allies failed to allay this country’s Hongerwinter via Operation Chowhound. This country’s wartime food shortages were described by a young memoirist who spent two years in this country’s Achterhuis (“AHK-ter-house”).
famines [accept scarcity of food, lack of food, or other synonyms; prompt on answers that describe a poor harvest] (The rain caused the rotting of crops and an inability to evaporate salt for meat curing.)
potatoes [accept taters; accept spuds; accept Solanum tuberosum]
the Netherlands [accept Nederland] (The memoirist was Anne Frank.) &lt;European History&gt;
This republic declared its independence in 1836 after a convention in Washington-on-the-Brazos. For 10 points each:
Name this republic that secured separation from Mexico after defeating Antonio de Santa Ana at the Battle of San Jacinto (“huh-SIN-toe”). It was annexed to the United States in 1846.
This man led Texan forces to victory at San Jacinto. This former Tennessee governor became governor of Texas in 1859, but was forced from office when the state seceded.
This “Father of Texas” organized the “Old Three Hundred,” the first American families to settle in the region. He lost to Houston in the republic’s first presidential election.
Republic of Texas
Samuel Houston
Stephen F. Austin [or Stephen Fuller Austin] &lt;American History&gt;
Velupillai Prabhakaran (“VEH-loo-pill-eye prahb-HAH-kah-rahn”) led this organization from 1976 until his death in combat in May 2009, after which it surrendered. For 10 points each:
Name this secessionist force that killed Ranasinghe Premadasa (“RAH-nuh-SING-huh prem-uh-DAH-suh”) and other Sinhalese leaders during a long-running South Asian civil war.
The Tamil Tigers fought to form a separate state in this island country southeast of India. This island was ruled as the British colony of Ceylon (“say-LON”).
In 1991, a member of the Tigers assassinated this Indian prime minister in response to his deployment of Indian peacekeepers to Sri Lanka.
Tamil Tigers [or the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam; or LTTE; prompt on Tigers or Liberation Tigers]
Sri Lanka
Rajiv Gandhi [prompt on Gandhi] &lt;World History&gt;
This battle is commemorated by the holiday of Ashura, which is celebrated during the month of Muharram. For 10 points each:
Name this 680 AD battle in which a small force led by Muhammad’s grandson Husayn was wiped out in Iraq. It triggered the Second Fitna, or Islamic civil war.
Husayn was killed after refusing to submit to the authority of this second Islamic caliphate founded by Muawiyah (“moo-ah-WEE-yuh”). Its capital was Damascus, and it was eventually toppled by the Abbasids.
Husayn specifically opposed the ascension of this second Umayyad caliph, Muawiyah’s son. While fighting revolts that followed Husayn’s death, this man’s forces sacked Medina and only ended their siege of Mecca after this ruler died.
Battle of Karbala
Umayyad caliphate
Yazid I &lt;World History&gt;
Throwing shade upon the beard has been a somewhat common occurrence for many millennia. Answer the following about historical haters of hirsute (“her-SUIT”) hijinks, for 10 points each.
Russian nobles known as boyars were quite put-off when this man implemented a tax upon his subjects’ beards. This westernizing tsar replaced Moscow with a newly-built Russian capital named after himself.
This man’s satire Misopogon, or “Beard-Hater,” was inspired by the vitriol he received towards his scruffy face while staying in Antioch. This emperor largely failed in his attempts to revive Roman paganism over Christianity.
This man’s raid on the city of Cádiz earned the sassy nickname “Singeing the King of Spain’s Beard.” This bearded fellow claimed New Albion, largely today’s California, for Elizabeth I while travelling on the Golden Hind.
Peter the Great [or Peter I; prompt on Peter Alexeyevich; prompt on Peter of Russia]
Julian the Apostate [accept Julian II; accept Flavius Claudius Iulianus]
Sir Francis Drake &lt;European History&gt;
Answer the following about famed railroads that connected Europe to Asia, for 10 points each.
Two answers required. In 1903, construction began on a railway that would connect these two cities, in the German and Ottoman Empires respectively. The railway didn’t finish until 1940 but is often considered a factor in the outbreak of World War I.
This snowy, sparsely populated region names a massive railway system that was spearheaded by Tsar Alexander III, and connected Moscow to Vladivostok in the Far East.
George Nagelmackers’s CIWL passenger car company operated this railway system that originally connected Paris to Constantinople. This system’s name derived from a broad, historical term for the East.
Berlin AND Baghdad [accept Berlin–Baghdad Railway; do not accept or prompt on individual answers]
Siberia [or Sibír; accept Trans-Siberian Railroad]
the Orient Express [or the Express d’Orient] &lt;European History&gt;
A fleet led by David Farragut captured this city after slipping past Forts Jackson and St. Philip. For 10 points each:
Name this Louisiana city, the most populous in the Confederacy, that was captured by Union forces in April 1862.
This Massachusetts general and future radical Republican became the first military governor of New Orleans. He sparked scandal by ordering that New Orleans women who disrespected Union troops should be given as little respect as prostitutes.
In May 1862, Butler’s men found the wife of this Confederate general living in New Orleans. This French Creole captured Fort Sumter and, with Joseph Johnston, defeated Irwin McDowell at the First Battle of Bull Run in 1861.
New Orleans
Benjamin Butler
P. G. T. Beauregard [or Pierre Gustave Toutant-Beauregard] &lt;American History&gt;
After multiple failed attempts on this leader’s life, he responded, “Stop sending people to kill me. We’ve already captured five of them… if you don’t stop sending killers, I’ll send one… and I won’t have to send a second.” For 10 points each:
Name this leader who imprisoned many political opponents on the island of Goli Otok. This first Chairperson of the Non-Aligned Movement split with Stalin over matters such as the Hungarian Revolution.
Tito led this Central European country, which would eventually break up into multiple successor states including Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia.
As leader of the Partisan resistance during World War II, Tito strongly opposed the Axis collaboration of this other Yugoslavian royalist faction, led by Draža Mihailović.
Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]
Yugoslavia
the Chetnik movement [or Chetniks; accept Ravna Gora Movement; accept Yugoslav Army in the Homeland] &lt;European History&gt;
In the 1880s, this island was ruled by the English-Jewish-Tahitian merchant Alexander Salmon, who promoted the production of counterfeit <em>rongorongo</em> scripts. For 10 points each:
Give the European name for this isolated Pacific island whose population was annihilated in the late 19th century. This island’s huge moai statues are sometimes referred to as its namesake heads.
This indigenous ethnic group of Easter Island wrote in rongorongo and built the island’s moai.
The Rapa Nui’s moai-centered religion either coexisted with or was supplanted by the worship of this creator deity who sponsored the island’s birdman cult.
Easter Island
Rapa Nui
Makemake (“MA-kay-MA-kay”) &lt;World History&gt;
In 1968, youth supporters of this movement staged a series of student strikes called its namesake “blowouts.” For 10 points each:
Name this 20th-century social movement that sought to promote cultural and economic empowerment among Mexican Americans.
The Chicano blowouts were concentrated in this southern California city. During World War II, Hispanic residents of this city were targeted in the Zoot Suit Riots.
This Chicana activist worked with César Chavez to cofound the United Farm Workers. She coined the UFW’s slogan, “Sí se puede” (“see say PWEH-day”).
Chicano movement [or Chicana movement; or Chicanx movement; or Xicano movement; or Xicana movement; or Xicanx movement]
Los Angeles [or LA]
Dolores Huerta &lt;American History&gt;
Near this letter’s end, its author mocks the theory of “auto-forgery” by asserting that the only way in which a trio of “handwriting experts” aren’t guilty of fraudulency is if they are ill in both sight and mind. For 10 points each:
Name this letter, whose author spent a year in England to escape libel charges after writing it. This letter, which primarily attributes blame to the “extraordinary imaginations” of Major du Paty de Clam, was first published in the newspaper L’Aurore (“lo-ROR”).
Émile Zola wrote “J’Accuse” as a protest against the jailing of this Frenchman, whose namesake affair reflected contemporary French antisemitism.
During his period of incarceration, Dreyfus spent a couple of years on Devil’s Island, which was just off the coast of this French overseas possession in South America.
“J’Accuse”
Alfred Dreyfus (“dray-FOOSE”) [accept Dreyfus Affair]
French Guiana [do not accept or prompt on “British Guiana,” “Dutch Guiana,” or “Suriname”; do not accept or prompt on “Guyana”; prompt on Guyane (“gwee-YAHN”)] &lt;European History&gt;
This man fled to Curaçao (“CUR-uh-sao”) after the collapse of a revolutionary government led by Francisco de Miranda. For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish-American “liberator” who returned from exile to secure the independence of Gran Colombia.
Before returning to liberate Gran Colombia, Bolívar outlined his vision of a unified Latin America in this 1815 letter, named for the British colony he was living in.
In 1819, Bolívar secured Colombian independence after crushing a Spanish army at this battle. Two years later, Bolívar followed up his victory at this battle by liberating his native Venezuela upon winning at Carabobo.
Simón Bolívar
Letter from Jamaica [accept Jamaica letter or Carta de Jamaica]
Battle of Boyacá &lt;World History&gt;
While a circus acrobat named Otto Witte claimed to have briefly attained this position by impersonating the nephew of the Ottoman sultan, no one mentioned in his story exists to corroborate his account. For 10 points each:
Name this position. Its only legitimate holder underwent 55 assassination attempts motivated by blood feuds, including one in which he returned with his own pistol after an attempt on his life at a showing of Pagliacci.
The great king Zog was forced to abdicate after the invasion of Albania by this World War II–era Italian fascist known as Il Duce (“DOO-chay”).
Zog’s effective successor was the communist Enver Hoxha (“HO-juh”), who built 170,000 of these structures throughout Albania. Devices known as “busters” of these structures are designed to penetrate into the ground before detonation.
king of Albania [prompt on ruler of Albania; do not accept or prompt on “president of Albania” or “prime minister of Albania”] (The king is Zog I.)
Benito Mussolini [or Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini]
concrete bunkers [accept nuclear bunkers; accept bunkerët; prompt on fortifications or bomb shelters; prompt on pillboxes] &lt;European History&gt;
This essay claims that a certain threat could be completely eliminated only by destroying liberty or by giving everyone “the same opinions, the same passions, and the same interests.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1787 essay published under the name “Publius” that defends the power of the proposed U.S. Constitution to check the danger of factions.
Federalist No. 10 was written by this future president who authored the Federalist Papers with John Jay and Alexander Hamilton.
Madison’s claim in Federalist No. 10 that factions most often arise from the “unequal distribution of property” was cited in 1913 by this Columbia historian to support his thesis that the U.S. Constitution was primarily shaped by the founders’ financial interests.
Federalist No. 10 [or Federalist Paper No. 10 or “The Utility of the Union as a Safeguard against Domestic Faction and Insurrection”; prompt on Federalist Papers by asking “which one?”]
James Madison
Charles Beard &lt;American History&gt;
Catalina de Erauso, known as <em>La Monja</em> (“MOAN-hah”) <em>Alférez</em>, is now remembered for performing this action, which allowed her to fight the Mapuches in colonial Chile and hold an audience with Pope Urban VIII. For 10 points each:
Give this action undertaken by the Fernig sisters and the apocryphal Polly Oliver. On his ship, “Calico” Jack employed a pair of pirates known today for performing this action, which they later revealed to stay their executions.
First mentioned hundreds of years after her supposed reign, this cross-dressing woman is said to be the only female pope. After this woman gave birth during a parade, popes legendarily had to be fondled to ensure the existence of their testicles.
She’s no pope, but Joan of Arc was burned at the stake for cross-dressing during this lengthy war broadly fought between England and France during the 14th and 15th centuries.
cross-dressing [accept descriptions of dressing like a man; prompt on descriptions such as acting like a different person or acting like someone else; do not accept or prompt on “dressing in drag” or “dressing like a woman”] (La Monja Alférez translates as “The Nun Lieutenant,” and the pirates were Anne Bonny and Mary Read.)
Pope Joan [accept Ioannes Anglicus]
Hundred Years’ War &lt;European History&gt;
While these two countries officially merged in the 1569 Union of Lublin, they had been basically united since the 1386 marriage of Queen Hedwig to Grand Duke Jogaila (“yo-GUY-luh”), namesake of the Jagiellonian (“yog-yuh-LO-nee-in”) dynasty. For 10 points each:
Name these two countries that ruled as a single commonwealth until a series of 18th-century partitions. Their shared legislature, the sejm (“saym”), was strongly controlled by the szlachta (“SHLOCK-tuh”) noble class.
Perhaps the greatest leader of the commonwealth was this man, who imitated Julius Caesar by saying, “I came, I saw, God conquered,” after defeating the Ottomans at the 1683 Battle of Vienna.
The second and largest partition of the commonwealth was largely orchestrated by this longest-ruling female Russian tsar, who had earlier put down Pugachev’s Rebellion.
Poland and Lithuania [or the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth; accept a combination of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania]
John III Sobieski of Poland and Lithuania [or John Sobieski; accept Jan, Jonas, or Ioannes in place of “John,” but prompt on them without the number or identifier; prompt on John]
Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; accept Yekaterina Alekseyevna or Yekaterina Velikaya; or Princess Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst; prompt on Catherine or Yekaterina] &lt;European History&gt;
During this war, an army consisting mostly of young boys was slaughtered at Acosta Ñu (“nyoo”). For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century conflict in which Argentina, Brazil, and another South American power allied to crush Paraguay, which lost over half its population.
This nation was the third member of the Triple Alliance. Earlier, Paraguay tried to prevent Brazilian troops from forcing the Blanco party out of this country’s capital, Montevideo.
This president led Paraguay into the conflict. He died after making a last stand against Brazilian forces at Cerro Corá.
War of the Triple Alliance [prompt on Paraguayan War]
Uruguay
Francisco Solano López &lt;World History&gt;
Answer the following about protests by the American Indian Movement, for 10 points each.
In 1973, AIM activists occupied this town in the Pine Ridge Reservation. In 1890, hundreds of Sioux were massacred near this South Dakota town’s namesake creek as U.S. forces cracked down on the Ghost Dance.
Starting in 1969, Richard Oakes led an AIM occupation of this island, citing the Treaty of Fort Laramie, which returned abandoned federal lands to Native ownership.
To protest Hollywood’s treatment of Native Americans, this actor sent Sacheen Littlefeather, who participated in the Alcatraz occupation, to represent him at the 1973 Academy Awards.
Wounded Knee [accept Wounded Knee Creek]
Alcatraz Island
Marlon Brando &lt;American History&gt;
Wooden racks known as <em>hjell</em> are primarily used to preserve this commodity, whose “stock” and “clip” varieties differ in whether salt is used in the drying process. For 10 points each:
Name this commodity, a greedy creature once referred to as “British gold.” Engineer Halldór Hallfreðsson was the only fatality during three namesake 20th-century wars fought against the U.K. over rights to this commodity.
For centuries, cod has been an important resource for this Atlantic island country governed by the Althing parliament after Viking settlement in 874 AD.
Cod was also essential for this ethnic group, whose members dominated the whaling industry from settlements by the Ebro. In 1615, Icelandic sailors killed a group of them in the so-called “Slaying of the Spaniards.”
Atlantic cod [accept Cod Wars; accept Gadus morhua or þorskur or Þorskastríðin; prompt on fish; prompt on stockfish and clipfish]
Iceland [or Ísland]
the Basques [accept euskaldunak; accept vascos] &lt;European History&gt;
Richard Morris Hunt included himself and the sculptor Karl Bitter as figures representing humanity’s progress in the Beaux-Arts (“boh-ZARR”) great hall for one of these buildings. For 10 points each:
Name these buildings, one of which includes The Breakers. The Pacific American Decorative Company repeated a motif of the number 13 across one of these buildings to appease ghosts killed by Winchester rifles.
The Breakers is located in this state’s city of Newport. Coffee milk is enjoyed in this state’s capital of Providence during its iconic WaterFire festival.
This other Vanderbilt mansion nestled in the Blue Ridge mountains is the largest private property in the United States. Frederick Law Olmstead’s gardens for this property became the site of the first forestry education program in the world.
mansions [accept equivalents such as manors, castles, estate, or manses; accept the Winchester Mystery House; prompt on house or home by asking “what type of home?”]
Rhode Island
Biltmore Estate &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
This man built on the methods of the Göttingen School in his 1829 book on the First Serbian Uprising, which directly analyzed accounts provided by the philologist Vuk Karadžić (“KAH-ruh-jitch”). For 10 points each:
Name this prolific German historiographer. This spurner of a teleological theory of history attempted to elucidate the shared experiences between various European nations in his History of the Latin and Teutonic Peoples.
In his quest to write history “how things actually were,” Ranke recommended the use of this general type of source. These sources are firsthand accounts that provide direct information on a topic.
In The Popes of Rome, Ranke popularized the name for this specific religious period that saw the creation of the Index of Forbidden Books following the Council of Trent.
Leopold von Ranke (“RON-kuh”)
primary sources [accept original sources]
Counter-Reformation [accept Catholic Reformation; accept Gegenreformation or Anti-Reformation or Contrareformatio or Reformatio Catholica; prompt on Catholic Revival or Reformation; do not accept or prompt on “Protestant Reformation”] &lt;European History&gt;
Answer the following about the accomplishments of the Ottoman sultan Selim the Grim, for 10 points each.
At the Battle of Chaldiran in 1514, Selim crushed the forces of Ismail, the founder of this Persian dynasty that rivaled the Ottomans for the next two centuries.
In 1517, Selim defeated and conquered this Egyptian sultanate ruled by a namesake caste of Caucasian soldiers with slave origins.
Selim’s conquest of the Mamluks enabled him to control routes to this holiest Muslim city, the home of the Kaaba.
Safavid dynasty
Mamluk sultanate
Mecca [or Makkah] &lt;World History&gt;
During times of crisis, these people were often scapegoated and buried alive near the Colline Gate. For 10 points each:
Name these Roman priestesses who served 30-year terms maintaining the city’s sacred fire.
Upper class Roman women were the only lawful participants in an annual festival honoring this goddess. During that festival to this goddess in 62 BC, Publius Clodius Pulcher dressed as a woman and tried to seduce Julius Caesar’s wife, leading Caesar to divorce her.
Women were also essential in spreading this religion across the Roman empire. St. Helena encouraged her son Constantine the Great to promote toleration of this religion.
Vestal Virgins [or Vestals or Vestalis; prompt on Virgins]
Bona Dea [accept Bona Dea scandal]
Christianity &lt;European History&gt;
Answer the following about deathly ships, for 10 points each.
This legendary phantom ship, the subject of an opera by Richard Wagner, is said to forever sail the seas. It is named for its European country of origin.
In 2018, a record number of real-life “ghost ships” full of dead sailors from this country washed up on other shores. This country claims to have found the cave where the mythical founder Dangun (“DAHN-goon”) lived.
During Ragnarok, Loki is said to ride on Naglfar (“naggle-far”), a ship constructed from these objects taken from the corpses of the dead.
The Flying Dutchman [or De Vliegende Hollander; or Der fliegende Holländer]
North Korea [or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; prompt on Korea; do not accept or prompt on “South Korea” or “Republic of Korea”]
nails [accept toenails or fingernails] &lt;Mythology&gt;
Following a 1707 disaster off the Isles of Scilly, the British government offered a series of sizeable prizes for anyone who could come up with a reliable procedure for performing this task. For 10 points each:
Name this task that Edmund Halley failed to perform by studying isogonic lines of magnetism. John Harrison invented a series of devices dubbed H1 through H5 to do this task, but he was swindled out of the prize money.
Following World War I, four of Harrison’s marine chronometers were rediscovered in this specific location’s Royal Observatory. This London area with a namesake “Mean Time” sits directly on the Prime Meridian.
This other Londoner tried to solve the longitude problem, but largely quit after developing a spring-powered pocket watch. This member of the Royal Society coined the word “cell” in his best-seller, Micrographia.
calculating longitude [accept the longitude problem; prompt on answers regarding accurate timekeeping; do not accept or prompt on anything about “latitude”]
Greenwich (“GREN-itch”) [accept Royal Observatory, Greenwich; accept Greenwich Mean Time]
Robert Hooke &lt;European History&gt;
Between 1899 and 1900, this man defended the mentally-unsound Leopold Hilsner from charges of blood libel in a series of antisemitic trials in Bohemia. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who, along with Milan Štefánik (“shteh-FAH-neek”), developed a nationalistically-named “Legion” that fought for Russia during World War I. This man was succeeded by Edvard Beneš (“BEN-esh”) as president of his country in 1935.
Masaryk was the first president of this no-longer existent country in Central Europe. This country’s name is a portmanteau of two modern-day countries whose capitals are Prague and Bratislava.
Both Czechoslovakia’s 1989 revolution and its subsequent split into two countries are often named for this substance, referencing the peaceful nature that characterized the transition.
Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk
Czechoslovakia [do not accept or prompt on “Czechia,” “Czech Republic,” or “Slovakia”]
velvet [accept the Velvet Revolution or the Velvet Divorce] &lt;European History&gt;
Answer the following about women who were pivotal in shaping the Byzantine empire, for 10 points each.
By stating that “purple is the finest burial shroud,” Empress Theodora dissuaded this husband of hers from fleeing during the Nika Riots. This Byzantine emperor proceeded to commission the extant version of the Hagia Sophia.
Before securing power by blinding her son Constantine VI, Empress Irene called the Second Council of Nicaea to reverse this policy, which banned the use of namesake religious images in Orthodox churches.
Shortly after being exiled by her brother John II, this historian described the effects of the First Crusade upon the Byzantine Empire in an account of the reign of her father Alexios I, the Alexiad.
Justinian I [or Justinian the Great; accept Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Iustinianus Augustus; prompt on Justinian or Ioustinianós; do not accept or prompt on “Justin”]
Byzantine iconoclasm [accept Eikonomachía; prompt on descriptive answers indicating the ban on or rejection of religious icons]
Anna Komnene [or Anna Comnena] &lt;European History&gt;
Robert Caro won a Pulitzer Prize for profiling this man in the critical 1974 biography <em>The Power Broker</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this influential New York urban planner of the mid-20th century. He organized and planned projects like the Triborough (“TRY-bro”) and Verrazzano–Narrows bridges, Lincoln Center, and Shea (“shay”) Stadium.
One of Moses’s biggest achievements was bringing the headquarters of this intergovernmental organization to New York. This organization’s General Assembly and Security Council convene in a complex on the East River.
Moses’s rise to power was aided by this governor of New York who was nicknamed the “Happy Warrior.” Anti-Catholic sentiment contributed to this man’s loss in the 1928 presidential election.
Robert Moses
United Nations [or UN]
Al Smith [or Alfred Emanuel Smith] &lt;American History&gt;
Answer the following about events surrounding cryptocurrencies in 2018, for 10 points each.
The industry experienced the largest percent crash since the dotcom bubble after this country threatened to ban the firm Ethereum. The American-owned GM Daewoo competes with Hyundai and Kia in this country’s automobile economy.
In 2018, this leader announced Petro, a cryptocurrency backed by oil fields in the Atapirire (“AH-tah-pee-REE-ray”) Parish, as part of an “economic offensive.” This leader’s namesake “diet” refers to how his citizens lost an average of 26 pounds in 2016 due to food shortages.
In 2018, David A. Marcus spearheaded development of this cryptocurrency produced by Facebook and geared towards “financial inclusion.” Nydia Velázquez and other House Democrats have argued that this cryptocurrency would “break the international monetary system.”
South Korea [or the Republic of Korea; accept Hanguk or Namhan; prompt on Korea; do not accept or prompt on “Democratic People’s Republic of Korea” or “DPRK” or “North Korea”]
Nicolás Maduro Moros
Libra &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
In the early 20th century, this country’s rising movement for Macedonian independence was stifled by the far-right <em>Zveno</em> faction until <em>Zveno</em> transitioned to communism to resist the Axis in 1943. For 10 points each:
Name this country, the fourth outsider to join the original Tripartite Pact members after Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia. During World War II, this country was led by Tsar Boris III, until his possible death by poisoning.
Description acceptable. After Theodor Dannecker visited Bulgaria, protests led by Dimitar Peshev inspired Boris III to try and attain this general goal, which he did via a number of unnecessary road maintenance projects.
Bulgaria’s original goal in entering the war was to reclaim territories lost in two wars fought over this southeastern European peninsula, which includes Bulgaria, Serbia, Albania, and Bosnia, among other countries.
Bulgaria [or Republic of Bulgaria; accept Kingdom or Tsardom of Bulgaria; accept Third Bulgarian Tsardom]
save Bulgaria’s Jews [accept protect, shelter, shield, or synonyms in place of “save”; accept answers like refusing to deport Jews to concentration camps; prompt on resisting Hitler, resisting Germany, or similar answers by asking “in what way did he resist?”] (Boris vigorously claimed to Hitler that the Jews were necessary as labor for road-building projects.)
Balkan Peninsula [or The Balkans] &lt;European History&gt;
Patrick Ferguson died leading a force of these people at the 1780 Battle of King’s Mountain. For 10 points each:
Name these people, thousands of whom fled to Canada in the 1780s as promises made in the Treaty of Paris to protect their property were ignored.
One member of this family served as royal governor of New Jersey and was a key Loyalist leader during the Revolution. His father served the patriot cause as a minister to France and earlier published Poor Richard’s Almanack.
In 1775, this royal governor of Virginia issued a namesake proclamation that promised freedom to slaves who took up arms for the Loyalist cause.
Loyalists [accept Tories, Royalists, or descriptive equivalents]
Franklin family [accept William Franklin or Benjamin Franklin]
John Murray, Earl of Dunmore [or Lord Dunmore; accept Dunmore’s proclamation] &lt;American History&gt;
Cicero’s <em>De Senectute</em> (“day sen-eck-TOO-tay”) is the first source for this statement’s existence, which was possibly sparked by a man seeing “lots of timber” while failing to arbitrate a war between Massinissa and this statement’s subject. For 10 points each:
Give this statement, whose central sentiment was realized three years after its speaker’s death in 149 BC. This statement was appended to the end of each of its speaker’s speeches, even if they weren’t related. Either the original language phrase or an English translation is acceptable.
One member of this specific familial branch would oppose Cato the Elder’s blustering by ending his own speeches with “Carthage must be saved.” A general from this family defeated Hannibal at the Battle of Zama.
At Zama, Hannibal fought using the “war” variety of these huge land mammals, which were commonly captured on the Indian subcontinent in antiquity.
“Furthermore, Carthage must be destroyed!” [or “Carthago delenda est”; accept “Ceterum autem censeo Carthaginem esse delendam”]
Scipio [accept Cornelii Scipiones; accept Scipio Africanus; accept Scipio Nasica Corculum; accept Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus; accept Publius Cornelius Scipio Nasica Corculum]
war elephants &lt;European History&gt;
One of the first of these events was regularly hosted in the Hôtel de Rambouillet (“rom-boo-YAY”) by the socialite Catherine de Vivonne (“kaht-REEN duh vee-VUN”). For 10 points each:
Give this term for intellectual gatherings in the 18th and 19th centuries often hosted by women, particularly in Paris and London.
Salons were part of this broader international community named for its primary method of correspondence across long distances. Intellectual Pierre Bayle (“bail”) published a periodical titled for “News From” this community, whose name was coined by Francesco Barbaro.
This French term collectively denotes the leading thinkers of the Enlightenment, many of whom participated actively in the Republic of Letters. Voltaire is considered one of these people.
salons
The Republic of Letters [or La République des Lettres or Respublica literaria; accept News from the Republic of Letters]
philosophes (“fee-luh-SOFFS”) [do not accept or prompt on “philosophers”] &lt;WA, European History&gt;
These things are fairly ubiquitous in many Andean cities, where they are often referred to as <em>micros</em> (“MEE-krows”). For 10 points each:
Describe these things, called marshrutka (“mar-SHROOT-ka”) in the former Soviet Union, matatu in East Africa, and service (“ser-VEESE”) or sherut (“sheh-ROOT”) in the Middle East. Studies show that they often approximate the routes that would otherwise be taken by subways.
This capital city’s transit needs are mostly served by shared taxis, since a civil war between a Maronite dominated government and Sunni and Shiite militias unfortunately destroyed its transit infrastructure in the 1980s.
Collective taxis are the only form of transit linking cities like Ramallah, Nablus, and Bethlehem in this region because Israel controls the territory between them. Along with the Gaza Strip, this region is under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority.
shared taxis [or vans or minibuses or fixed-route taxis or anything that conveys this general idea; prompt on taxis or jitneys or buses; do not accept “rideshare” or “mototaxi” or the names of rideshare companies like Uber]
Beirut, Lebanon
West Bank [or Area C] &lt;JM, Geography&gt;
Charles Homer Haskins introduced the historiographic concept of a “renaissance” of this century. For 10 points each:
Name this century during which the founding of the Hanseatic League and the University of Paris expanded European trade and science. Henry II of England presided over a time of prosperity during this century.
The 12th-century renaissance followed an 11th-century boom in building these things. The first joint-stock company was established by a group of Parisian proprietors of these things, whose proprietors had a reputation for unscrupulousness.
Another medieval “renaissance” was named for this first Holy Roman Emperor, who was crowned in Aachen (“OCK-in”) in 800 CE. This ruler’s advisors wrote in his namesake “minuscule” script.
12th century [or 1100s]
water mills
Charlemagne [or Karl der Grosse or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles or Karl or Carolus; prompt on Carolingian minuscule or Caroline minuscule] &lt;JM, European History&gt;
Oceanographer Charles J. Moore helped bring attention to this thing by sailing around the ocean in a raft made from an old fuselage from a Cessna airplane. For 10 points each:
Give the common term for this large agglomeration of debris trapped in the North Pacific Gyre.
This US scientific agency operates the Marine Debris Program, which seeks to help clean up the Garbage Patch. It is known by a four-letter acronym and provides the National Weather Service.
Studies of Pacific garbage gained prominence after a 1990 incident in which the cargo ship Hansa spilled 61,000 of this company’s products into the ocean. Team Sweat organizes factory workers employed by this company in such locations as the Korean-run Hansae (“hahn-seh”) facility in Vietnam.
Great Pacific Garbage Patch [accept Eastern or Western Garbage Patch]
NOAA (“NO-uh”) [accept National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration]
Nike (The incident is the “Great Shoe Spill of 1990.”) &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
A ruler of this kingdom supposedly named the Canary Islands after hearing reports of the large amounts of dogs there. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom home to Juba II. A cunning ruler of this kingdom had his rival Hiempsal killed and once referred to Rome as a “city for sale,” probably because he was repeatedly able to bribe its politicians.
The latter king of Numidia, Jugurtha, was captured by this Roman politician, helping bring this man to the forefront of Roman politics. He later issued many proscriptions against his political opponents.
This earlier commander employed many Numidian horsemen in his many victories against the Romans, which occurred after he led his multinational army in a successful crossing of the Alps.
Numidia [or Inumidenb; do not accept or prompt on “Nubia”]
Sulla [or Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix]
Hannibal Barca [prompt on Barca] &lt;ML, Ancient/Archaeology&gt;
This ruler was overthrown by the Red Eyebrows Rebellion following a massive flood. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who seized power, founded his own dynasty, and implemented a wide-ranging standardization program after a dynastic crisis created by Emperor Ai’s homosexuality.
The flood demonstrated that Wang Mang had “lost” this concept from Chinese historiography, which refers to the notion that a presiding dynasty has the right to rule as long as it demonstrates that it is worthy.
This dynasty, which was interrupted by Wang Mang’s reign, ruled from about 206 BC to 220 AD. This dynasty also names the majority ethnic group in China.
Wang Mang (“wong mong”) [prompt on Wang]
Mandate of Heaven [or Tianming]
Han Dynasty [accept Han chao] &lt;ML, World History&gt;
This philosopher’s syndicalism called for workers to carry revolution via a “general strike.” For 10 points each:
Name this French philosopher who argued that workers should avoid socialist political parties, as they might ally with conservatives to preserve national control, in the book Reflections on Violence.
George Sorel’s writings discuss the power of “social” and “national” examples of these stories. In a passage from The Republic commonly called one of these stories, a man describes how he dies in battle and witnesses the transmigration of souls.
George Sorel admired this philosopher, who theorized a “vanguard party” in his pamphlet What is to be Done? and later became the first leader of the Soviet Union.
Georges Sorel
myths [or mythologies; accept myth of Er; prompt on legends]
Vladimir Lenin &lt;WA, Phil/Thought&gt;
Standard techniques from this country’s dance styles include the “gold standard crown,” in which the dancer swings their leg backwards and holds it steady over their head. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose highly varied dance forms reflect its 56 different recognized minority groups, including the Uyghurs (“wee-gurs”) of its western regions.
This propagandistic dance company based in New York City, founded by Falun Gong followers, promotes itself as reviving “5,000 years of Chinese culture” through dance.
Propagandistic dances feature in the Chinese operas known by this term, which were selected by Mao Zedong’s wife Jiang Qing (“jyong ching”) for their portrayal of revolutionary struggles. The fact that there were only eight of these operas gave rise to the quip “Eight hundred million people watched eight shows.”
China [or People’s Republic of China; or PRC; or Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó]
Shen Yun Performing Arts
model operas [or yàngbǎnxì; accept Eight Model Operas; prompt on revolutionary operas until read] &lt;JZ, Other Arts: Dance&gt;
Women called <em>snaar</em>s were lower class citizens in this city, where residents declared allegiance by giving the Short Declaration. For 10 points each:
Name this setting of a massacre of Chinese citizens in 1740. This city was built on land captured from the Banten (“BAHN-tun”) Sultanate.
Batavia was a colony owned by this country’s East India Company, which was known as the VOC. This country colonized Indonesia.
The Dutch East India Company created Fort Zeelandia, which was famously besieged by a member of this profession. Moro people in the Sulu Sea frequently had this occupation.
Batavia [accept Batavia massacre; prompt on Jakarta]
Netherlands [or Nederlands or Holland or Dutch]
pirate [accept raider or equivalents; prompt on shipbuilders] &lt;ML, World History&gt;
In this country, Operation Pegasus took place after an evacuation from Arnhem Bridge. For 10 points each:
Name this country ruled by Queen Wilhelmina during World War II. This country surrendered in World War II after a German invasion took Rotterdam.
The Netherlands were the site of this failed operation in 1944, which had the goal of seizing bridges to attempt to invade Germany. This operation was the largest airborne assault in history.
A Dutch resistance group during World War II named itself after this occupation. Their name refers to an earlier group of nobles who fought the Spanish during the Eighty Years’ War, who also named themselves after this occupation.
Netherlands [or Nederlands or Holland or Dutch]
Operation Market Garden
beggars [or geuzen or gueux; accept Sea Beggars or Watergeuzen] &lt;ML, European History&gt;
Name these non-European nations with eccentric Neo-Nazi movements, for 10 points each.
Miguel Serrano, a diplomat from this country, claimed that Hitler will return from Antarctica as an “avatar” to lead humanity against the Hyperboreans. In 2000, a world Neo-Nazi rally took place in its capital of Santiago.
Neo-Nazi movements in this nation, such as Gal Undesten or “Fire Nation,” trade in extreme ethnic prejudice against Chinese people. This country’s president, Battulga Khaltmaa (“BOT-too-lug HALT-mah”), has been embattled in a constitutional crisis since March 2019.
A leader of this country’s Neo-Nazi movement, Eugène Terre’Blanche (“oo-ZHEN tair-BLONSH”), was beaten to death with a panga or machete while asleep in 2010.
Chile
Mongolia [or Monggol Uls]
South Africa [or Republic of South Africa] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
Because he had poor eyesight, one member of this body frequently asked his colleagues to describe what was happening in pornographic films that they had to watch in order to determine whether to allow them on the market. For 10 points each:
Name this body that used a rule asking whether a film or book had “redeeming social importance” to evaluate whether it was obscene.
In a case named for Nico Jacobellis, a theater operator from this state, Potter Stewart put forth his “I know it when I see it” description of pornography. Dollree Mapp was arrested for possession of pornography in another case originating from this state.
As a postal inspector and the head of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, this man was a leader in the movement to censor books that he deemed “obscene.” His actions also targeted birth control providers such as Margaret Sanger.
Supreme Court of the United States [or SCOTUS]
Ohio [accept Mapp v. Ohio]
Anthony Comstock &lt;ML, US History&gt;
Coventry (“KAW-vin-tree”) Patmore’s poem “The Angel in the House” epitomizes this era’s ideal of submissive womanhood, stating “Man must be pleased; but him to please / Is woman’s pleasure.” For 10 points each:
Name this historical era that lasted from 1837 to 1901, spanning the reign of its namesake queen.
Historians often refer to the Victorian middle-class ideal of the pious wife who stayed at home as the “cult of” this specific word. Barbara Welter called the same notion the “Cult of True Womanhood.”
Another concept from women’s historiography is the doctrine of “separate” examples of realms known by this term, with women having dominion in the “private” one of them. Much of Jürgen Habermas’s (“YUR-gun HAH-bur-moss’s”) work concerns the “public” place known by this term, referring to where political and social discourse takes place.
Victorian era
domesticity [accept Cult of Domesticity; do not accept or prompt on other answers]
spheres [accept public sphere or private sphere] &lt;WA, Historiography&gt;
The 1992 <em>Mabo</em> case overturned the previous assumption that land occupied by Aborigines had this status, and therefore granted them land rights unless the Crown had explicitly given away the land. For 10 points each:
Give this Latin term that refers to land that, by law, is uninhabited or unoccupied.
Most of this continent’s region of Marie Byrd Land is terra nullius that has not been claimed by any sovereign nation. The underground Lake Vostok is on this continent.
A tract of land called Bir Tawil, which is found on the border of these two countries, is terra nullius that is claimed by neither. The Hala’ib Triangle is also disputed by these two African countries.
terra nullius [prompt on terra]
Antarctica
Egypt AND Sudan [accept Misr in place of “Egypt”; do not accept or prompt on “South Sudan”] &lt;WA, Geography&gt;
In his <em>Autobiography</em>, Benvenuto Cellini claimed to have killed Charles of Bourbon during this event. For 10 points each:
Name this 1527 event that began after Francis I joined the League of Cognac (“KON-yak”). During this event, Caspar Roist led the Swiss Guard in its “last stand,” allowing an escape to the Castel Sant’Angelo.
The Sack of Rome was led by the unpaid troops of Charles V, the ruler of this diverse state led by the Hohenstaufen and Habsburg families. Voltaire quipped that it did not possess any of its three namesake qualities.
Among Charles V’s unpaid troops were a contingent of mercenaries led by Ludovico, the founder of this dynasty, which ruled Mantua for centuries afterward.
1527 Sack of Rome [do not accept or prompt on “French Sack of Rome”]
Holy Roman Empire [or HRE]
House of Gonzaga &lt;NC, European History&gt;
William Fessenden defended a mayor of this city during a trial after a Rum Riot in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city run in the 1850s by a man called the “Napoleon of Prohibition” for his short stature and zeal. That mayor of this city, Neal Dow, called in state militia to suppress backlash against a law he passed to ban alcohol.
An unrelated Dow, Charles Dow, was killed in this state’s city of Lawrence during a period named for its “Bleeding.” Carrie Nation carried out her first attack on a saloon in this state’s city of Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”).
Neal Dow was convinced to run for president in this year’s election. He refused to withdraw despite fears that he would siphon votes from the winning candidate and allow a victory for Winfield Scott Hancock.
Portland, Maine
Kansas
Election of 1880 &lt;ML, US History&gt;
A person murdered in this colony was found after he had been stabbed with a pick several times, burned with insecticide, and sprinkled with mattress feathers. For 10 points each:
Name this colony where Harry Oakes was murdered. This colony, ruled by Edward VIII after his abdication, freed dozens of rebels on an American slave ship who had landed on its Great Abaco Island in the Creole case.
This pirate made his home in the Bahamas just before England enforced colonization in the Bahamas. This pirate captained the Queen Anne’s Revenge.
The first Royal Governor of the Bahamas, Woodes Rogers, was better known for rescuing this Scottish sailor who was marooned in Chile’s Juan Fernández Archipelago, thus becoming the inspiration for Robinson Crusoe.
The Bahamas [accept British Bahamas]
Blackbeard [or Edward Teach; or Edward Thatch]
Alexander Selkirk &lt;ML, Commonwealth/Misc&gt;
Since eunuchs (“YOO-nucks”) were much more valuable than normal slaves, Arab slavers had little problem with the fact that most men whom they castrated in this desert died, since they’d still profit by doing so. For 10 points each:
Name this desert across which many slaves were brought by Arab traders. Those traders also conducted a gold–salt trade through this desert in such towns as Aoudaghost.
North African states also acquired many slave soldiers by importing from this African empire, which lost Aoudaghost to the Almoravids in the mid-11th century. Its capital was Koumbi Saleh (“KOOM-bee SAH-leh”).
This term, borrowed from Arabic, denotes raids that were conducted to enslave and plunder people, particularly by Moors in the Sahara and Barbary pirates along the coast. You may also give the Arabic word describing the soldiers who conducted those raids and other religious wars.
Sahara Desert [accept Trans-Saharan trade]
Ghana Empire [or Wagadu]
razzias [or ghazwas or ghaziyas or ghazis] &lt;WA, World History&gt;
A rebel after this event was known as “the veiled one” due to an explosion created by chemicals that he used to perform magic tricks. For 10 points each:
Name or describe this event during which Khalid al-Qasri led a revolt in Kufa. Abu Muslim led the winning side’s military in this event.
The Umayyad decision to reduce the number of people eligible for this tax and shift the tax burden to Muslims helped spark the Abbasid Revolution. Over time, mass conversion to Islam reduced revenue from this tax.
The revolution broke out in part due to the Umayyad caliphate’s decision to move the capital from this city in present-day Syria, which is now the country’s capital.
Abbasid Revolution [accept overthrow of the Umayyad Caliphate or equivalents]
jizya tax
Damascus [or Dimashq; or ash-Shams] &lt;ML, World History&gt;
Pietro Aretino wrote about falling in love with a female member of this profession and thus switching his love interest from boys to girls in My Dear Boy. For 10 points each:
Name this profession. Books about this profession were produced by Kenelm (“KEN-elm”) Digby and Guillaume (“ghee-YOME”) Tirel.
Aretino’s book La Cortigiana (“cor-tee-JAH-nah”), which is about Messer Maco’s attempt to become a cardinal and find a mistress, is a parody of this Italian diplomat’s Book of the Courtier.
Aretino eked out a comfortable living as a blackmailer in this city, where he was hired by the kings of France and Spain to dig up dirt on each other. This city’s earlier doges (“DOE-jus”) included Enrico Dandolo.
cook [or chef; or equivalents]
Baldassare Castiglione
Venice [or Venezia] &lt;ML, European History&gt;
This martial art is often called the “art of eight limbs” in reference to how it employs the hands, legs, elbows, and most notably the knees. For 10 points each:
Name this form of boxing, partly named for its home country, which is part of a class of martial arts called boran. Yodtong Senanan trained many fighters in this art in Pattaya.
The Muay Thai fighter Nai Khanom Tom (“nye kuh-nome tom”) legendarily won freedom for all Thais (“ties”) taken captive by one of this country’s Konbaung (“kohn-baong”)-dynasty kings by defeating ten champions. This Southeast Asian country’s main river is the Irrawaddy.
This Thai martial artist and Buddhist monk has helped popularize Muay Thai through his appearances in the films Ong-Bak, Tom-Yum Goong, and Fast and Furious 7.
Muay Thai [prompt on Thai boxing]
Burma [or Myanmar]
Tony Jaa [or Jaa Phanom or Tatchakorn Yeerum] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
Answer the following about slaves escaping not north into Canada, but south into Mexico, for 10 points each.
Escape routes into Mexico largely began after this part-black second president of Mexico abolished slavery in 1829. This man himself was overthrown by Anastasio Bustamante, who demanded that Texas comply with the emancipation order.
One of this politician’s slaves, Tom, escaped across the Rio Grande and later joined the Mexican military, which this man had led a war against as the first president of Texas.
In 1852, a group of refugees from slavery who made up part of this Native American tribe successfully petitioned the Mexican government for land. This tribe’s African-American leaders included John Horse.
Vicente Guerrero
Sam Houston
Seminoles &lt;JM, US History&gt;
Joseph de Guignes (“zhoh-ZEFF duh GEEN-yuh”) was one of the first to link these two peoples linguistically, although this has not been proven by archaeological evidence. For 10 points each:
Name these two oft-conflated ancient peoples. One of them was led by a leader called a chanyu, while the other’s last-known ruler was named Ernak and lost the Battle of the Nedao.
Neither the Xiongnu nor the Huns were a threat in China during the life of the legendary Mulan, who fought for a “Northern” dynasty of this name. Another dynasty of this name was led by the warlord Cao Cao (“tsow tsow”).
The Ballad of Mulan instead depicts her fighting the Rouran (“roh-rahn”), who are the first historical people of note to use this title for their rulers. This Turkic title was also given to the leader of the Mongols.
Xiongnu (“sh’yung-noo”) AND Huns [accept Hsiung-Nu or Hiong-Nu in place of “Xiongnu”]
Wei [accept Northern Wei]
khan [or khagan; accept khanate or khaganate] &lt;WA, Ancient/Archaeology&gt;
This tsar supposedly often told his son Alexander “Sometimes I think there are only two people in the empire who don’t steal. You and me!” For 10 points each:
Name this tsar who was understandably paranoid throughout his reign as it began with the Decembrist Revolt, in which secret societies called for him to be replaced by his brother Constantine.
This war in the 1850s proved Nicholas I right, as Russian bureaucrats frequently stole money intended for ammunition, contributing to a loss at the Siege of Sevastopol.
In this foggy November 1854 battle, corruption issues were exacerbated by the fact that the Russian general, Prince Menshikov, was actually an admiral who had little experience on land. Lord Raglan’s victory at this battle came to little, however, as Raglan died of dysentery (“DISS-in-TAIR-ee”) months later.
Nicholas I [or Nikolay I or Nicholas Pavlovich Romanov; prompt on Nicholas or Nikolay]
Crimean War [or Eastern War]
Battle of Inkerman &lt;WA, European History&gt;
The walls of one of these complexes were supposedly filled with water from the nearby Yamuna River so that it would stay cool during the summer. For 10 points each:
Give this type of complex, one of which contains a Diwan-i-Am, or audience hall, covered in white plaster. Another of these complexes is named for the color of its sandstone walls.
The Agra Fort is in the same city as this iconic Mughal building, a white mausoleum built by Shah Jahan for his wife Mumtaz.
Within the Agra Fort is the Sheesh Mahal, whose walls are inlaid with mosaics consisting of tiny examples of these objects. A hall at Versailles is named for containing many of these objects on seventeen arches.
Mughal forts [accept fortifications or Agra Fort or Red Fort]
Taj Mahal
mirrors [accept Hall of Mirrors] &lt;WA, Other Arts: Architecture&gt;
A plan of nine square blocks with a central green was created for this city, which was home to a plantation to which many of the regicides, or killers of Charles I, supposedly fled. For 10 points each:
Identify this city whose namesake colony was ruled by Theophilus Eaton. Oliver Winchester founded the first of a cluster of gun manufacturers based in this city, whose best-known university is named for the merchant Elihu (“EL-uh-hyoo”).
Elihu is the namesake of this Ivy League school in New Haven.
Because the New Haven colony signed a treaty with this tribe granting them an area of land that had no Western boundary, Connecticut claimed a narrow strip of land that led all the way to the Pacific Ocean. This tribe, often known as the Delaware, also signed a 1682 treaty with William Penn.
New Haven, Connecticut
Yale University [accept Elihu Yale]
Lenni Lenape [prompt on Delaware until it is read] &lt;ML, US History&gt;
During an interview for the fawning documentary <em>Rebels of the Sierra Maestra</em>, this leader had his tiny band of soldiers walk in circles in front of TV cameras to magnify their numbers. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who attacked the Moncada Barracks in 1953 before capturing Havana six years later.
Castro’s guerrilla movement overthrew this American-aligned dictator, who had earlier staged a coup against Carlos Prio Socarras to avoid losing a 1952 election.
Castro came to Cuba with a small band of guerrillas on a yacht of this name, which in turn names a southeastern province of Cuba. This is also the namesake of the Cuban Communist Party’s official newspaper.
Fidel Castro
Fulgencio Batista
Granma &lt;JM, World History&gt;
The first democratic assembly in North America, Virginia’s House of Burgesses, convened during this calendar year. For 10 points each:
Give this year of the 17th century in which the first enslaved people were brought to the present-day United States. It titles a recent series of articles by The New York Times examining the legacy of slavery.
An examination of the transatlantic slave trade in the first issue of The 1619 Project was done in collaboration with this organization, which operates the African-American History Museum on the National Mall.
In an August 2019 stage performance commemorating the start of The 1619 Project, this Pulitzer-winning African-American poet read a poem about Crispus Attucks. This Vietnam veteran’s poem “Facing It” recounts his first visit to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
1619 [accept The 1619 Project]
Smithsonian Institute
Yusef Komunyakaa &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
Benjamin Mitchell and Charles Lambert helped design examples of these objects, one of which is found in the Smithsonian. For 10 points each:
Identify these objects. One of these objects was found under the Zocalo (“SOH-kah-loh”) while renovating the Cathedral in Mexico City, after which it was mounted on the cathedral.
The Sun Stone later immortalized in an Octavio Paz poem was designed by this Mesoamerican civilization centered at Tenochtitlan.
Yet another so-called “sunstone” is a mineral attested in this island’s medieval literature as a navigational tool and may be a variety of transparent calcite. In medieval times, this island was governed by the Althing assembly.
sun stones [accept Piedra del Sol; prompt on stones]
Aztec civilization
Iceland &lt;ML, Ancient/Archaeology&gt;
In <em>Helvering v. Davis</em>, the Supreme Court held that the Social Security Act was constitutional under this clause. For 10 points each:
Name this clause from Article I, Section 8 of the US Constitution which states that Congress may tax and spend for debts, common defense, and for this clause’s namesake purpose.
A broad interpretation of the general welfare clause was put forth by this Founding Father, who claimed that it granted Congress plenary power to spend. He was the first US Secretary of the Treasury.
Opponents of the broad interpretation of the general welfare clause often cite this constitutional amendment, which concerns “powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution.” The Helvering ruling held that Social Security did not violate this amendment.
general welfare clause
Alexander Hamilton
Tenth Amendment &lt;WA, US History&gt;
This leader promoted the idea of the <em>mission civilisatrice</em> (“meese-YAWN see-vee-lee-sa-TREESE”) in a speech that justified a massive colonial expansion by saying “the higher races have a right over the lower ones.” For 10 points each:
Name this leader who annexed Tunisia, Madagascar, North Vietnam, and Congo for France. He is more famous for a law that fully secularized the French education system.
This other French prime minister was a leading opponent of Ferry’s colonial policy. He was nicknamed “The Tiger,” and his magazine L’Aurore (“lo-ROR”) published Émile Zola’s J’Accuse.
Georges Clemenceau was the French representative of the “Big Four” during negotiations of this treaty. This treaty ended World War I.
Jules Ferry [accept Jules Ferry laws]
Georges Clemenceau [or Georges Eugene Benjamin Clemenceau]
Treaty of Versailles &lt;ML, European History&gt;
Heraclius II’s declaration of an independent kingdom led to a war over his realm between these two empires. For 10 points each:
Name these two empires, one of which annexed the regions of Karabagh, Imeretia, and Shirvan from the other. These two empires signed the Treaty of Gulistan.
Heraclius II ruled this kingdom as part of its long-serving Bagrationi (“ba-gra-tee-OWN-ee”) royal house. This kingdom’s earlier rulers included David the Builder and Queen Tamar.
William Morgan Shuster, a banker from this country who was appointed as Persia’s finance minister, attacked Anglo-Russian influence in his book The Strangling of Persia. This country would later have its citizens abducted during a 1979 hostage crisis in Iran.
Russian Empire AND Persia [accept Qajar in place of “Persia”; do not accept or prompt on “Soviet Union” in place of “Russia”; do not accept or prompt on “Iran” or “Safavid Empire” in place of “Persia”]
Georgia [accept Sakartvelo]
United States of America [or USA; or America] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
William Seward introduced this amendment into the Senate, which would have prevented the federal government from interfering in “domestic institutions” of the states. For 10 points each:
Name this amendment that attempted to provide a compromise and stave off the Civil War. It passed the Senate but only five states ratified it before the Civil War.
An earlier attempt to prevent the Civil War was the compromise named for this year. The compromise named for this year passed the Fugitive Slave Act and allowed California to enter the union as a free state.
This former president’s call for a peace conference before the passage of the Corwin Amendment led to a conference in 1861. Several members of his Cabinet were killed in the USS Princeton disaster.
Corwin Amendment
1850 [accept Compromise of 1850]
John Tyler &lt;ML, US History&gt;
A group named for this city advocated for a closely-integrated socialist pan-African federation and feuded with the capitalist-oriented Monrovia Group. For 10 points each:
Name this largest city in Morocco. It titles a 1944 Michael Curtiz film in which Humphrey Bogart’s character helps Ingrid Bergman’s character flee to Portugal.
The driving force behind the Casablanca group was this leader of the Convention People’s Party, who was later overthrown in a coup by Joseph Ankrah. This leader secured independence for a colony that was then known as the Gold Coast.
The Monrovia Group eventually triumphed, establishing this international body and predecessor of the African Union.
Casablanca [or Beit Abyad]
Kwame Nkrumah
Organization of African Unity [or OAU] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
Since the 1930s, this country’s foreign policy has largely adhered to the Estrada Doctrine, according to which it has not commented on the legitimacy of foreign governments and usually recognized them. For 10 points each:
Name this country. In the Bucareli Agreement, it received US recognition and clarified Article 27 of its constitution, according to which foreigners cannot own its natural resources.
Mexico adopted the Estrada Doctrine shortly after joining this international organization, the predecessor of the United Nations. The US never joined it, since the Senate did not ratify its charter.
The Estrada Doctrine thus rigidly adheres to this principle of international law, according to which people should choose their own sovereign. Point 10 of Woodrow Wilson’s Fourteen Points explicitly supports this principle, as do the League of Nations and UN charters.
Mexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
League of Nations [prompt on League]
self-determination [do not accept or prompt on “self-government” or other answers] &lt;WA, Commonwealth/Misc&gt;
Name these regions of Eastern and Southern Europe that have been shaped by historical imagination, for 10 points each.
Maria Todorova’s book on “Imagining” this peninsula quotes Hermann Keyserling’s claim that this peninsula would need to be “invented” if it didn’t exist. Todorova is from Bulgaria on this peninsula.
Vesna Goldsworthy’s book Inventing Ruritania explores the “imperialism of the imagination” regarding this region of Eastern Europe, which is bordered by Wallachia to the south and the Carpathians to the east.
Larry Wolff’s book on “The Idea of” this region explores how “Hapsburg political culture” created it after the first partition of Poland. A historic “Petroleum Trail” crosses this region of Western Ukraine and Southern Poland.
Balkans [or Balkan Peninsula; accept Imagining the Balkans]
Transylvania [or Transylvanien]
Galicia [or Halicz; accept Galicia-Lodomeria; prompt on Ruthenia or Volhynia] &lt;WA, European History&gt;
In an unusual concession, the Red Cross was allowed to assist hundreds of victims of a 2004 explosion on one of these vehicles on the Tasado line, which is believed to have been an assassination attempt. For 10 points each:
Describe these vehicles whose interiors were uniquely recorded in 2011 during a state meeting with Russia. In February 2019, one of these vehicles traveled about 2,000 miles to reach Vietnam.
This first President of North Korea is believed to have begun his family’s custom of using armored trains to travel because he was scared of flying.
During Kim Jong-il’s 2001 visit to Russia, the train was reported to have stopped frequently to stock up on this wine from a namesake region of southwestern France. In 2016, Kim Jong-un claimed to have downed ten bottles of this wine in a single night.
Kim Jong-un’s armored trains [accept any answer that indicates the trains used by leaders of North Korea; prompt on train or armored trains]
Kim Il-sung [prompt on Kim]
Bordeaux wine &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
This term was first used to describe a press conference that contained the phrase “peace is at hand.” For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term for a revelation during a presidential campaign that significantly shifts the public’s perception of a candidate. It is named for the month before a presidential election.
This fringe activist created the “October Surprise” conspiracy theory alleging that Ronald Reagan colluded with Iran to keep hostages in custody until he was elected. This leader of the National Council of Labor Committees frequently ran “ego-stripping” sessions on his followers.
The “peace is at hand” press conference was headlined by this National Security Advisor to Richard Nixon, who was later awarded the Nobel Peace Prize with Lê Đức Thọ (“lay duck taw”) for negotiating an end to the Vietnam War.
October Surprise
Lyndon LaRouche [or Lyndon Hermyle LaRouche Jr.]
Henry Kissinger [or Heinz Alfred Kissinger] &lt;AA, US History&gt;
Answer the following about polling mishaps in US elections, for 10 points each.
In one such mishap, Gallup only sampled households with a landline phone and thus underestimated this President, who defeated Thomas Dewey to win re-election in 1948.
In 2016, most polls underestimated Donald Trump’s performance in the Midwest by oversampling white voters with this trait, who were more likely to both respond to polls and vote Democratic. A description is fine.
Polled voters may have been loath to admit to strangers that they were voting for Trump, which would exemplify this kind of response bias in which one gives answers based on perceived approval by others. Supposed examples of this bias include the Bradley effect and the “Shy Tory” effect in Britain.
Harry S. Truman
having a college education [or equivalents such as tertiary education or university education or having a bachelor’s degree; prompt on educated or schooling]
social desirability bias [prompt on desirability bias] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
A “protocol” named for this city called for Israel to invade Egypt, after which Britain and France would issue disingenuous statements that they had to seize the Suez Canal to maintain its neutrality. For 10 points each:
Name this French city. A treaty named for this city confirmed an armistice signed in Moudros Harbor and divided a country into Italian, French, British, and Greek zones of occupation.
This leader deposed the signers of the Treaty of Sèvres and stripped them of their citizenship. He did so after coming to power in a war that ended with the burning of Smyrna and the signing of the more favorable Treaty of Lausanne (“lo-ZANN”).
Sèvres houses the International Bureau of Weights and Measures, which stores platinum-iridium cylinders that served to officially define the units of this system, which was formalized by an 1875 convention in nearby Paris.
Sèvres (“SEV-ruh”)
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk [or Mustafa Kemal Atatürk]
metric system [accept SI or International System of Units or Système internationale d’unités; accept mks or cgs or meter–kilogram–second or centimeter–gram–second system; prompt on kilogram and meter] &lt;JM, European History&gt;
The outcome of a case regarding this practice was strongly influenced by the judge’s relation to the heiress of the Lindsay family, Dido Elizabeth Belle. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, one route for which was called the Middle Passage. It was part of the Triangle Trade.
This case outlawed the slave trade in Britain. It was decided by Judge Mansfield, who possibly originated the quote “Let justice be done though the heavens fall,” describing his commitment to his unpopular ruling.
This other prominent British abolitionist allied himself with the writer of “Amazing Grace,” John Newton. He died just after the Abolition Act of 1833 was assured to pass.
slave trade [or slavery; accept kidnapping people and selling them into slavery; prompt on kidnapping]
Somerset v. Stewart [accept Somerset Case]
William Wilberforce &lt;ML, Commonwealth/Misc&gt;
One of these entities, the Majeerteen (“ma-jair-TAIN”), are the subject of widespread resentment due to their historical role in governing. For 10 points each:
Identify these entities, two of which are named for Sheikh Darod (“da-ROAD”) and Sheikh Ishaq. Some of these entities have established autonomy in the breakaway state of Jubaland.
This country’s emperor Haile Selassie agreed to set territorial boundaries with Italian-controlled Somalia in exchange for assistance in controlling hostile Somali clans.
The Darod clan is one of the dominant clans in this territory of Somalia that, like its neighbor Somaliland, is recognized internationally as an autonomous state. This territory takes its name from an ancient land thought to be in present-day Somalia that is described in Egyptian texts.
Somali clans [accept qabiil; prompt on Somali tribes]
Ethiopia [or Ityoppya]
Puntland [or Punt] &lt;ML, World History&gt;
A slave girl named Lubna became a prominent mathematician in this city and was later appointed secretary to its prince al-Hakam II. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was home to the Medina Azahara, a library where Lubna and other scholars collected books. It was the political and cultural capital of al-Andalus under the Umayyads.
The third Umayyad ruler of Cordoba with this name proclaimed his state a caliphate and ruled as Iberia’s greatest king for half the 10th century, during which he built the Medina Azahara. The Umayyads settled in Iberia under another man of this name.
The Umayyad conquest of Spain marked the beginning of this lengthy process, in which Christians slowly took back the peninsula’s territory. This process culminated in the capture of Granada in 1492.
Córdoba [or Qurtuba; accept Caliphate of Cordoba]
Abd al-Rahman [or Abdurrahman; accept Abd al-Rahman III or Abd al-Rahman I]
La Reconquista [or Reconquest] &lt;WA, European History&gt;
The mass social unrest of the year 1968 included many violent events connected to the civil rights movement. For 10 points each:
In February 1968, students at one of this state’s universities who were protesting a segregated bowling alley were fired on by police, leading to 30 casualties. A later massacre in this state was perpetrated by Dylann Roof.
In April 1968, this man was shot by James Earl Ray on the balcony of a hotel in Memphis, where he had traveled to lead the Poor People’s Campaign.
In July 1968, this city witnessed the Glenville Shootout, a four-hour-long gun battle between its police and the Black Nationalists of New Libya. The incident was a mark on the administration of Carl Stokes, who had been elected the first black mayor of a major US city earlier that year.
South Carolina [accept South Carolina State University]
Martin Luther King Jr. [or MLK]
Cleveland &lt;WA, US History&gt;
This regime was followed by a period of liberalization called the <em>abertura</em> (“ah-bair-TOO-ruh”). For 10 points each:
Name or describe this regime that was opposed by the March of the One Hundred Thousand. Vladimir Herzog was killed in an OBAN facility during it.
This former dissident against the Brazilian junta (“HOON-tah”), who was tortured by its secret police, would later become president of Brazil. This leader was impeached and replaced with Michel Temer (“mee-SHELL TAY-mair”) in 2016.
The Brazilian junta encouraged settlement and logging in this region, in which it established the states of Rondônia and Roraima. The Waimiri-Atroari people were exterminated as part of that push into this region, which led to the expansion of cities like Manaus (“ma-NOUSE”) and Belém (“bay-LAME”).
Brazilian military dictatorship [accept descriptions that refer to Brazil’s rule by the military, such as Brazilian junta; or Fifth Brazilian Republic; accept the regimes of Artur Costa e Silva or Ernesto Geizel; do not accept or prompt on “Estado Novo”]
Dilma Rousseff
Amazon rainforest [accept Amazon basin or Amazonas or Amazonia] &lt;ML, World History&gt;
During this event, tycoon Thomas Scott claimed that people should try a “rifle diet” to get them to stop protesting low wages. For 10 points each:
Name this event, also called the “Great Upheaval.” Thomas Scott’s advice on using the army to end it led to the passage of the Posse Comitatus Act and led to massacres in Pittsburgh, Scranton, and Reading (“RED-ing”).
This president suppressed the Great Railroad Strike of 1877 one year after being awarded the presidency despite losing the popular vote in a compromise that required him to end Reconstruction.
The Great Railroad Strike began in this state, where the Battle of Blair Mountain would later see miners face off against company-owned militias.
Great Railroad Strike of 1877 [prompt on Railroad Strike; do not accept or prompt on “Great Railroad Strike of 1922”]
Rutherford B. Hayes
West Virginia &lt;ML, US History&gt;
These people disproportionately came from the Hoa (“hwah”) people, a group of Overseas Chinese. For 10 points each:
Give the generic term for refugees who fled Vietnam in makeshift craft after the Vietnam War ended in 1975.
Vietnam’s border tensions with this Southeast Asian country exacerbated the exodus of boat people. A 1979 Vietnamese invasion overthrew this country’s Khmer Rouge government.
As Prime Minister of another country in the 1980s and ’90s, this man established a “shoo or shoot” policy denying boat people entry into his country. More recently, he returned to office in 2018 as his country’s first PM to not come from the Barisan National or its predecessor, the Alliance Party.
Vietnamese boat people [or Thuyền nhân Việt Nam]
Cambodia [or Kingdom of Cambodia; accept Kampuchea or Cambodge]
Mahathir Mohamad [prompt on Mohamad] (He is the Prime Minister of Malaysia.) &lt;WA, World History&gt;
A widely rejected theory links the language of this ancient kingdom to South India’s Dravidian language family. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom in modern Western Iran whose king, Shutruk-Nahhunte, took the stelae (“STEE-lee”) of the Babylonian kings Naram-Sin and Hammurabi back to his capital of Susa during a 12th-century BC invasion of the Kassite Dynasty.
Elam was one of the main trading partners of a civilization in this river valley in modern-day Pakistan, which was based around cities like Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa.
Susa was later sacked in the 7th century BC by this Neo-Assyrian ruler and successor of Esarhaddon. He built a massive royal library and wrote a history of his conquest of, among other places, Egypt.
Elam (“EE-lum”) [accept Elamite Kingdom]
Indus River Valley [accept Indus Valley Civilization]
Ashurbanipal [prompt on Sardanapalus] &lt;JM, Ancient/Archaeology&gt;
Reporter Mortimer Thompson, using the pseudonym Q. K. Philander Doesticks, published a report about one of these events for the <em>New-York Tribune</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify these events, an example of which in Savannah was called “The Weeping Time.” That largest example of these events in history was run by Pierce Butler.
This other city built its Old Slave Mart in 1859 to hold private auctions, as it outlawed public slave auctions in 1856. P. G. T. Beauregard commanded this Southern city’s artillery during an April 1861 battle.
Recently, this university made the news due to attempted reparations for a slave auction held to pay off its debts in 1838. The Jesuit Order founded this university in Washington, DC.
slave auctions [prompt on auctions]
Charleston, South Carolina (That battle was Fort Sumter.)
Georgetown University &lt;ML, US History&gt;
The downfall of two gangsters with this surname began after one of them was accused of having a same-sex affair with the Conservative politician Lord Boothby. For 10 points each:
Give this surname of the twin brothers Reggie and Ronnie, who dominated organized crime in London in the postwar era before being imprisoned.
The Krays ran protection rackets together with Peter Rachman (“ROCK-min”), who had this occupation and whose name became a byword for exploitative practices in it. In the 19th century, real estate speculators in Ireland often became absentee members of this occupation.
The Krays and Rachman were based in a poor area of London named for this direction, where the Cockney dialect is spoken. This direction also names a region called “Anglia” that includes Norfolk and Suffolk.
Kray [accept Reggie and Ronnie Kray]
landlords
East [accept East End or East London or East Anglia] &lt;JM, European History&gt;
During World War II, Rashid Ali Al-Gaylani aligned this country with the Axis powers in order to remove it from British influence. For 10 points each:
Name this non-Jordan country where the Hashemite Prince Faisal served as king after leading the Arab Revolt during World War I.
This future dictator of Iraq was serving as a Ba’ath party enforcer when Faisal’s grandson, Faisal II, was deposed, ending the Iraqi monarchy. This leader was later deposed himself in a 2003 American invasion.
Faisal I committed the Simele (“sih-MEH-lay”) Massacre against this northern Iraqi ethnic minority, which was also targeted in the “Sayfo” genocide under the Ottoman Empire.
Iraq
Saddam Hussein [or Saddam Hussein]
Assyrians [prompt on Syriacs, Arameans, or Chaldeans] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
C. Wright Mills in which he described a movement against the “end of ideology” in a letter written to this group that coined its name. For 10 points each:
Name this loosely defined political movement that titles a Review edited by Stuart Hall. This grouping, offshoots of which included the Yippies, focused on issues such as civil rights and nuclear disarmament.
The New Left school of historiography arose out of a debate with the “Consensus school” of historiography, which is most associated with this Librarian of Congress and author of The Americans trilogy and The Image, in which he attacked “pseudo-events.”
After leaving this political party, Boorstin cooperated with the House Un-American Activities Committee in naming members of this political party, which Marxist historians including Herbert Aptheker (“APP-taker”) belonged to.
New Left
Daniel Boorstin
Communist Party USA &lt;ML, Historiography&gt;
Answer the following about US overseas operations involving the Night Stalker unit. For 10 points each:
In Operation Mount Hope III, the Night Stalkers captured a vehicle of this type made by the Soviet MIL plant. A force of this type of vehicle failed to achieve its objective in Operation Eagle Claw, leading to the creation of the Night Stalkers.
The Night Stalker unit was the airborne arm of the three-pronged attack in the operation to kill this man. This leader of al-Qaeda played a key role in planning 9/11 before being killed in 2011 in Abbottabad, Pakistan.
The Night Stalkers fought in a battle against Mohamed Farah Aidid’s forces in Mogadishu after two of this type of helicopter were shot down. This type of helicopter gives its name to a book by Mark Bowden about the event.
helicopter [accept MI-24 or MI-25]
Osama bin Laden [accept Usama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden]
Black Hawk [accept Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk] &lt;ML, US History&gt;
This place titles an anthology on the “Origins of North American Dropout Culture” edited by James Koehnline (“KEN-line”), and Hakim Bey cites this place as an early “temporary autonomous zone.” For 10 points each:
Identify this place whose name was found carved on a tree by a rescue mission led by John White as the only remnant of a colony he founded. This place also names a tribe native to Ocracoke and Hatteras Island.
The Roanoke colonists and the Croatan group may have both been absorbed into the Lumbee, a tri-racial confederation based in this state, whose city of Raleigh is named for the sponsor of the Roanoke Colony.
The book Gone to Croatan describes the use of Indian disguises in uprisings like this state’s Anti-Rent War, which attacked the Patroonship system that gave families descended from this state’s early settlers, like the Rensselaers (“ren-suh-LEERS”), quasi-feudal power over their employees.
Croatan [or Croatoan]
North Carolina
New York &lt;JM, Historiography&gt;
This city’s namesake castle was destroyed in a 1686 siege, rebuilt as a Baroque palace, suffered several fires, extensively remodeled in the late 19th century, and gutted in the 1950s by the Communists. For 10 points each:
Name this city founded around that castle in 1247, directly across from a commercial hub. It was later linked to that alphabetically-later commercial twin via the Széchenyi (“SAY-chain-yee”) Chain Bridge in 1849, and finally merged with it in 1873.
Buda was merged with Pest to become the capital of the Hungarian monarchy, which at the time was unified with the monarchy of this other kingdom under Habsburg rule.
Among the oldest ruins in Buda is a tower built by a lord with this first name that blew up in 1715 when a friar shot a cannonball at it. Another Hungarian of this name received a crown from Pope Sylvester II in 1001 CE and was later canonized.
Buda [accept Buda Castle; do not accept or prompt on “Budapest”]
Austria [or Österreich; accept Austria-Hungary]
Stephen [or István; accept Stephen’s Tower] &lt;WA, European History&gt;
An example of this substance that had the ability to expand continuously was stolen by Gun (“gwun”) from Feather Mountain, for which he was later exiled. For 10 points each:
A magical material used by Yu the Great called xirang (“shee-rong”) is an example of what substance? Please give an English answer.
Yu and Gun were thus legendarily able to stem the serious problem of this primary river of Northern China flooding and ruining the country, allowing Chinese civilization to get going.
Yu’s establishment of this oldest Chinese dynasty is described by Sima Qian (“suh-mah ch’yen”). Its history is largely considered to be mythological, though archaeology has begun to confirm its existence.
soil [or dirt or earth or clay]
Yellow River [or Huang He]
Xia (“sh’yah”) dynasty &lt;WA, Myths/Legends&gt;
It’s not Vietnam, but “boat people” from this country began fleeing and arriving in the US with greater frequency after its dictatorship eradicated the creole pigs that its peasantry traditionally relied on. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the dictatorship of “Papa Doc” and “Baby Doc” Duvalier was supported with American aid.
After the overthrow of the Duvalier dictatorship, this defrocked radical priest dominated Haitian politics. A US intervention restored this leader to power after he was overthrown in a 1991 coup backed by the secret police of the Duvalier family.
Haitian “boat people” were held at this site, whose conditions would later be the subject of the Supreme Court cases Hamdan v. Rumsfeld and Boumedienne v. Bush.
Haiti [or Republic of Haiti; or Republique d’Haiti]
Jean-Bertrand Aristide [or Titid]
Guantanamo Bay [or Gitmo] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
Different societies have radically different views on cousin marriage. For 10 points each:
Over the centuries, Gujarati Hindus have severely disapproved of this group’s practice of intra-family marriage, termed khvedodah (“kh’VEH-doh-dah”). This term refers to Zoroastrians who live in India.
Due to a strong cousin marriage taboo, this nation’s Civil Code once banned marriages between people with the same last name. This was seriously inconvenient, as over half this country’s population is named Park, Lee, or Kim.
Though these people have a strong taboo on cousin marriage, studies have found that two randomly selected members of “Old Order” groups of them, such as those in Lancaster County, would have an average inbreeding coefficient greater than that of two second cousins.
Parsees [or Parsis]
South Korea [or Republic of Korea or Daehan Minguk; prompt on Korea]
Amish people [or Pennsylvania Dutch; do not accept or prompt on “Dutch”] &lt;WA, Geography&gt;
Paul Pelliot has been criticized for looting massive numbers of texts from a library in this country, which was later destroyed in its civil war. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the Terracotta Army was found in a farmfield in 1974 and archaeologists have uncovered oracle bones from the Shang dynasty.
The Terracotta Army was uncovered in this ancient capital of China in modern Shaanxi province. Either the ancient name of the city or the modern city it is found within is acceptable.
Pelliot rose to fame after introducing this site to the west. This site in Gansu province is sometimes also named for the thousand Buddha statues found in it. The Hungarian-British archaeologist Aurel Stein also removed a number of manuscripts from this site.
China [or People’s Republic of China; or PRC; or Zhongguo]
Chang’an (“chong-AHN”) [accept Xi’an]
Mogao Caves [accept Dunhuang Caves] &lt;JM, Ancient/Archaeology&gt;
This empire supplied its cities with water using massive reservoirs called <em>baray</em>s (“buh-RYES”). For 10 points each:
Name this empire whose capital city of Angkor used two such barays, whose drying out was a major cause of its collapse.
In order to guarantee water supply, medieval Indian empires sponsored the construction of these structures, which contain labyrinthine stairways that allow people to walk directly down to the water table. The Agrasen one of these structures still supplies water to New Delhi.
A massive water tank called the “Sea of Parakrama” was built on this island by its namesake medieval ruler. That tank supplied water to his capital of Polonnaruwa, and would later provide water during the era of this island’s Kandy Kingdom.
Khmer Empire
stepwells [accept baoli, baori, vav, kalyani, or barav; prompt on wells]
Sri Lanka [or Ceylon or Serendib] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
The publication of the <em>Bahr-Papier</em> (“BAR-pah-PEER”) exposed collusion between a minister of this man and diplomat Valentin Falin. For 10 points each:
Name this world leader. Foreign policy initiatives during his tenure included an attempt to normalize relations with the government of Willi Stoph.
Brandt cried on a state visit to this city in what is known as this city’s namesake “knee fall.” This city also names a pact between the Soviet Union and its allies signed in response to NATO.
Brandt was the first postwar prime minister of West Germany from this party, who are the traditional rivals of the Christian Democratic Union.
Willy Brandt (“VILL-ee BRONT”) [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]
Warsaw [or Warschau; or Warszawa]
Social Democratic Party of Germany [or SPD; ir Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands] &lt;ML, European History&gt;
This time period got its name from reporter Benjamin Russell during the president’s tour of the northeast. For 10 points each:
Name this period of American history. The first two-party system collapsed before this period in which the Democratic-Republicans were the only party.
This president met people during the “Great Goodwill Tours” of the Era of Good Feelings dressed in Revolutionary War garb. This president names a doctrine that forbade European countries from interfering in Latin America.
Due to low turnout in the nominating convention for the 1820 election, this person offered a resolution adjourning the meeting. This only Vice President elected by the Senate used the slogan “Rumpsy dumpsy, rumpsy dumpsy, [this person] killed Tecumseh.”
Era of Good Feelings
James Monroe
Richard Mentor Johnson &lt;ML, US History&gt;
When asked whether he was aware that the literacy tests he wanted were discriminatory, this man responded “Discrimination! Why that is exactly what we propose.” For 10 points each:
Name this supporter of segregation who represented Virginia in both the Senate and the House. He was one of the two namesakes of a Banking Reform Act that created the FDIC.
The Glass–Steagall Act was repealed under this president, who used the slogan “it’s the economy, stupid” in his re-election campaign and signed the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Specifically, the Glass–Steagall Act separated these two types of banks. One of these types of banks mainly focuses on securities and M&amp;A transactions, while the other focuses on consumer services and deposits.
Carter Glass [prompt on Glass–Steagall Act]
Bill Clinton [or William Jefferson Clinton]
investment banks AND commercial banks &lt;ML, US History&gt;
Under this ruler, the Statute of Artificers empowered judges to fix wages throughout the country. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who made the face value of the coin equal to the worth of the coin in England. This 16th-century female English ruler faced plots like the Babington and Throckmorton plots.
Elizabeth I imposed a punitive tax on this beverage. Edward IV executed his brother, the Duke of Clarence, by drowning him in this specific beverage.
The first English ambassador to this polity was sent by Elizabeth I and was named William Harborne. Dragomans were European ambassadors to this polity, whose Topkapi Palace was often called the Sublime Porte.
Elizabeth I [accept Good Queen Bess; accept Gloriana; prompt on the Virgin Queen; prompt on Bess]
Malmsey Wine [prompt on wine]
Ottoman Empire [prompt on Turkey] &lt;ML, European History&gt;
One company with this name was founded by the staunchly positivist Sephardic Pereire (“pay-RAIR”) brothers, and was accused by Marx of “trying to make Napoleon III the supreme dictator of France’s industry.” For 10 points each:
Name this bank that made massive investments in railroad construction before going bust during the Panic of 1873. An admirer of that company, Thomas Durant, named an American bank he founded after that company.
Crédit Mobilier of America paid bribes to a number of Republican politicians during this president’s scandal-plagued administration. This president earlier served as the chief Union general during the Civil War.
In another railroad-finance affair, this Canadian prime minister lost an election to the Liberal Party after favoring the Canadian Pacific Railroad over its competitors in the Pacific Scandal.
Crédit Mobilier [or Société Générale du Crédit Mobilier]
Ulysses S. Grant
John A. Macdonald &lt;JM, Commonwealth/Misc&gt;
In 1876, the Qing (“ching”) government produced a report on Chinese people who were kidnapped to work harvesting this crop. For 10 points each:
Name this crop that was largely produced in the Caribbean by Chinese and Indian indentured laborers after the abolition of slavery. Demand for this crop increased as the working class began to use it to flavor their tea.
The Chinese workers who testified to the Qing commission were largely kidnapped in this port city, which has since become an international gambling hub. The Patuá (“pa-TWAH”) creole language is spoken in this city, which is also known as Aomen.
Kidnapped Chinese workers were also kept in slave-like conditions on these Peruvian islands in order to harvest guano. Spain seized these islands in 1864, which prompted a war in which Chile and Peru fought to take them back.
sugar cane [or sugar]
Macau [accept Aomen until read]
Chincha Islands [or Islas Chinchas] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
Epidemics of smallpox and <em>cocoliztli</em> (“ko-ko-LEEST-lee”) are major complications in trying to estimate the early modern population of this broad region. For 10 points each:
Name this region whose history is divided into “pre-Columbian” and “Columbian” eras, which likely had 90 to 95 percent of its population killed by smallpox. The earliest estimates of this two-continent region’s pre-contact population hovered around 2 million.
This 16th-century Spanish priest was an early proponent of a “high count” of pre-Columbian populations, estimating that 8 million people lived in Haiti before Columbus’s arrival. He defended Indian rights in the Valladolid (“vah-yah-doh-LEED”) Debates.
The “high count” school was repopularized in the 1970s by a Berkeley historian with this surname who partnered with Sherburne Cook. An Idaho senator with this surname led the “irreconcilables” faction in the Senate in opposing the League of Nations.
America [or the Americas; or North and South America; accept New World or Western Hemisphere]
Bartolomé de las Casas
Borah [accept Woodrow Borah or William Borah] &lt;JM, Commonwealth/Misc&gt;
A phrase drawn from this song titles Edmund Wilson’s anthology of Civil War Literature, <em>Patriotic Gore</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this song composed in response to the xenophobic Pratt Street Riot. It encourages citizens to “Remember Carroll’s Sacred Trust” by joining the Confederate cause.
The Pratt Street Riot was led in part by this faction of anti-war Northern Democrats led by Clement Vallandigham. This faction’s name comes from an incident in which a Confederate supporter mailed two live snakes to Washington, DC.
The Pratt Street Riots and broader Confederate sympathies in Maryland were the catalyst for the passage of a bill that allowed the federal government to suspend this right, thus allowing the defendant of the case Ex parte Merryman to be arrested without charge.
“Maryland, My Maryland” [accept descriptions like the Maryland state song or Maryland anthem]
Copperheads [prompt on Peace Democrats]
habeas corpus &lt;ML, US History&gt;
Ancient nobility required servants both during and after life. For 10 points each:
The first unifier of China, Qin Shi Huangdi (“cheen shurr hwong-dee”), was accompanied in his tomb by thousands of warriors made of this material to serve as his attendants and bodyguards.
The burial site of a noblewoman from this city named Puabi (“poo-AH-bee”) contains a “Death Pit” unearthed by Leonard Woolley, where 74 of her attendants were buried alive. This Sumerian city also contained a Great Ziggurat finished by its king Shulgi (“SHOOL-ghee”).
Attendants were often buried alive with high nobility in the Old Kingdom, but the practice died out. Instead, nobles were often buried with these dolls, which were to assist them if they had to perform manual labor after death.
terracotta
Ur [do not accept or prompt on “Uruk”]
ushabti dolls [or ushabi dolls or shawbit dolls] &lt;WA, Ancient/Archaeology&gt;
This city became prosperous due to a massive iron mine and furnace, which supplied much of the wealth of the Kingdom of Kush. For 10 points each:
Name this city home to a number of steeply sloped pyramids that succeeded Napata as Kush’s capital after Napata was sacked by the Egyptians. This city also names two scripts, a hieroglyphic one and a cursive one, used throughout ancient Nubia.
Iron smelting was also discovered remarkably early by the Nok culture of this modern-day country. The sacred city of Ife (“ee-fay”) was likely established by Nok descendents in this country, also home to the city of Kano.
Shaka, a ruler of this kingdom in modern South Africa, innovated by expanding the iron piece on the end of its traditional weapon, the assegai, to make the iklwa (“EEK-wah”).
Meroe (“MAIR-oh-ee”) [or Meroë; accept Meroitic script]
Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria]
Zulu Kingdom [or Zululand; or kwaZulu] &lt;JM, World History&gt;
Name some things about Catholic orders. For 10 points each:
This group of “Black Monks” operate as independent communities despite being called an order. Although this order is commonly said to observe a vow of silence, members are allowed to talk for most of the day according to the founding saints’ namesake rule.
This order of “Black Friars” were historically responsible for carrying out inquisitions. Today, they are active in the Philippines and Vietnam, performing baptisms instead of torturing heretics.
This scholarly order was founded by the author of the Spiritual Exercises, Ignatius of Loyola. This order operates several universities including Boston College and Loyola University Chicago.
Order of Saint Benedict [accept Benedictines; prompt on OSB]
Dominican Order [accept Order of Preachers; prompt on OP]
Society of Jesus [accept Jesuit Order; prompt on SJ] &lt; Brad McLain | Religion &gt;
Participants of this event cut a fence by mistake when they intended to cut some telegraph wires in order to hide their whereabouts. For 10 points each:
Name this event that prompted Kaiser Wilhelm II to send the Kruger Telegram.
This war, partially caused by the Jameson Raid, was fought between the British and a group of Dutch settlers over the Orange Free State and the Transvaal.
The Second Boer War involved the siege of this diamond mining town, which is currently the capital of the Northern Cape Province of South Africa. One of its mines, the Big Hole, is claimed to be the deepest hole excavated by hand.
Jameson Raid
(Second Anglo-)Boer War [accept South African War]
Kimberley  &lt; Mike Hu | Classics, British or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
The circuit court with this number is by far the largest of the 13 federal appeals circuit courts and has been accused of a liberal bias. For 10 points each:
Name the circuit court with this number which has jurisdiction over the west coast of the United States.
In Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow, the Ninth Circuit said that the words “under God” in this statement violated the Establishment clause. The Supreme Court reversed the Ninth circuit's decision, but has also ruled that students do not need to salute the flag during this statement.
Using this Constitutional clause, the Supreme Court reversed the Ninth Circuit on the legality of homegrown medical marijuana. This clause grants Congress the power to regulate interstate trade.
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Pledge of Allegiance
Commerce Clause &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
137 of these weapons were found on the shipwreck of the <em>Mary Rose.</em> For 10 points each:
Name these weapons traditionally made of yew wood which were instrumental to English victories at Crécy and Poitiers during the Hundred Years’ War.
Longbows also played a significant role during this English victory during the Hundred Years’ War. This 1415 victory for Henry V was fought on St. Crispin’s Day.
The only French victory during the battle of Agincourt was the Ysembart d’Azincourt’s (EE-sem-barr DAH-zin-cores) successful raid of this vehicle carrying some treasures of King Henry V.
English longbows [prompt on bow and arrows]
Battle of Agincourt
Henry V’s baggage train [accept supply train; prompt on train] &lt; Iain Carpenter | Continental Europe &gt;
Ante Pavelić served as the Poglavnik of this organization from 1941 to 1945. For 10 points each:
Name this fascist organization that ruled a Nazi puppet state from Zagreb. One member of this organization was known for keeping a jar of eyeballs on his desk.
Ustaše led this then-constituent republic of Yugoslavia. This modern-day country’s fight for independence from Yugoslavia saw a siege of its city of Dubrovnik.
The historical ethnic tension between Croats and this ethnicity saw their mass persecution during Ustaše rule. The Srebrenica (sreh-bruh-NEET-sa) massacre took place under Ratko Mladić, a general of this ethnicity.
Ustaše (us-TA-shay) [accept but do NOT otherwise reveal Ustaša (us-TA-sha) – Croatian Revolutionary Movement; accept but do Not otherwise reveal Ustaša – Hrvatski revolucionarni pokret; do NOT accept or prompt on “Croatia”]
Republic of Croatia [accept Independent State of Croatia; accept Republika Hrvatska; accept Nezavisna Država Hrvatska; accept NDH]
Serbs [accept Srbi] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe &gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the legislation of Draco:
Draco created a very harsh example of one of these systems, setting the punishment of death for many offences. Hammurabi created one of these systems stating that punishment should be “an eye for an eye.”
This Athenian statesman revised many of the harsh laws in Draco’s law code. This man created the Council of 400 and established democracy in Athens.
Draco’s law code was made after this man attempted to seize Athens during the Olympic Games in 632 BC. This man was later stoned after the rope he tied to the statue of Athena broke.
law code [accept legal code; accept code of law; accept constitution]
Solon
Cylon of Athens &lt; Mitch McCullar | Classics, British and Commonwealth, Other &gt;
This man’s insensitive comment about a proposed abortion bill may have prompted a classmate to release a medical school yearbook photo. For 10 points each:
This Democratic governor of Virginia admitted to and later denied that he was the man in blackface or the man in KKK robes in the photo. This still-governor then admitted to a separate instance of blackface -- prompting calls for his resignation..
With Northam’s resignation seeming imminent, this man, the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia was next-in-line to become Governor. However, accusations of sexual assault and rape have surfaced -- prompting calls for his resignation.
Fourth in line is Republican Kirk Cox, the Speaker of the House. A Republican is Speaker because of this type of result in a 2017 election, which had to be settled by drawing a name out of a bowl.
Ralph (Shearer) Northam
Justin (Edward) Fairfax
tie [accept logical equivalents such as a draw; or receiving equal votes] &lt; Nathan Fredman | Misc - Current Events &gt;
This country engaged in Operation Linda Nchi in an effort against insurgents in its south. For 10 points each:
Name this country which established a federal provisional government in 2012. In 2017, hundreds of people were killed by explosions in its capital city of Mogadishu.
In response to this man’s government cracking down on the Somali National Movement, separatists declared the unrecognized state of Somaliland in 1991. His dictatorial regime declined after losing the Ogaden War.
This Somali militant group affiliated with al-Qaeda instituted environmental regulations such as banning plastic bags and logging rare species of trees. Its name translates to “the youth,” and it has often come in conflict with the Sufi group Ahlu-Sunna-Waljama’a.
(Federal Republic of) Somalia [do NOT accept or prompt on “Somaliland”]
(Mohamed) Siad Barre
Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen [accept Ash-Shabaab, Hizul-Shabaab, or Popular Resistance Movement in the Land of the Two Migrations] &lt; Jonathan Lau | Non-European, Non Commonwealth History &gt;
In the early stages of this battle, a G.I. questioned Omar Bradley what the capital of Illinois was to ensure he wasn’t a German spy and detained him when he answered Springfield -- because the answer was obviously Chicago. For 10 points each:
Name this World War II battle in the Ardennes forest, which created a namesake wedge in the Allied lines.
During the Battle of the Bulge, this event took place near the namesake Belgian city. During this event, American prisoners of war were killed by members of the 1st SS Panzer Division under the leadership of Joachim Peiper.
Another event during the Battle of the Bulge was the siege of this Belgian city where Anthony McAuliffe replied to a request to surrender with the one-word reply “Nuts!”
Battle of the Bulge [or Operation Watch on the Rhine; or Unternehmen Wacht am Rhein]
Malmedy massacre
Bastogne [or Bastenaken; or Bastnach; or Bastenach; or Baaschtnech; accept alternative pronunciations] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe &gt;
This event took place after a special prosecutor subpoenaed the Oval Office Tapes. For 10 points each:
Name this event that resulted in multiple members of the Justice Department resigning rather than fire Archibald Cox.
The Saturday Night Massacre occurred because this Republican president ordered the firing of Archibald Cox. This president resigned shortly after the Watergate Scandal.
Richard Nixon eventually decided to release the Oval Office Tapes. Mindful of his wholesome reputation, Nixon ordered all profanities to be removed and replaced with this two-word phrase.
Saturday Night Massacre
Richard (Milhous) Nixon; [accept “(Tricky) Dick” Nixon]
expletive deleted &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
Name some things about Suleiman the Magnificent’s life. For 10 points each:
Suleiman was a sultan of this empire, known as the “sick man of Europe,” whose 1453 conquest and subsequent renaming of Constantinople marked the end of the Byzantine Empire.
Suleiman’s 1529 siege of this city was repulsed by, among others, Niklas Graf Salm and Wilhelm von Roggendorf. A planned Ottoman campaign against this city was stopped by the death of Suleiman at Szigetvár (si-GET-var).
This battle between the Ottoman Empire and the Kingdom of Hungary, led by Louis II, marked the end of the Jagiellonian dynasty and the partition of Hungary between the Habsburgs and the Principality of Transylvania.
Ottoman Empire [or Devlet-i ʿAlīye-i ʿOsmānīye; or The Exalted Ottoman State; or Osmanlı İmparatorluğu; or Osmanlı Devleti; prompt on Turkish Empire; do NOT accept or prompt on “Turkey” or “Republic of Turkey” or “Türkiye Cumhuriyeti”]
Vienna [or Wien (VEEN); or Viyana]
Battle of Mohács (MO-hash) [or Mohácsi csata; or Mohaç Meydan Muharebesi; do NOT accept or prompt on “Second Battle of Mohács”] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe History &gt;
In 1896, this future Georgian senator was seriously considered as a possible running mate for William Jennings Bryan on the Democratic platform. For 10 points each:
As a representative, this man tried to require the Postal Service to deliver to rural areas for free, and he earned black support by condemning lynching, but was later prosecuted for his anti-Catholic newsletters.
Watson switched from the Democratic Party to this liberal 19th-century political party. As this party’s nominee in 1904 and 1908, Watson was this party’s last nominee for president. This party advocated for bimetallism and was supported by farmers.
One of the Populist Party’s goals was to nationalize railroads, telegraph networks, and this recently invented communication technology, patented by Alexander Graham Bell.
Thomas Edward “Tom” Watson
Populist Party [or People’s Party]
telephone networks &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
“Are you Englishmen or only Goths and Vandals?” For 10 points each:
William Thornton legendarily shouted those words during this event in an effort to save the U.S. Patent office which was pointed at by British cannons. This event was carried out by troops under Robert Ross and George Cockburn.
The burning of Washington took place during this war caused by British impressment of American sailors. This war was ended by the Treaty of Ghent.
Responding to American military failures in the War of 1812, this Secretary of War and future Vice President reorganized the War Department into a system of bureaus.
Burning of Washington, D.C. [or burning of the White House; accept logical equivalents]
War of 1812
John C(aldwell) Calhoun  &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
This general tried to cross the Alps with elephants. For 10 points each:
Name this Carthaginian general who lost to the Roman army under Scipio Africanus during the Second Punic War.
This man became dictator after Hannibal defeated the Romans at the Battle of Lake Trasimene. This man’s namesake strategy involved avoiding conflict to wear down the enemy.
Hasdrubal Barca was killed during this battle in the Second Punic War. After this battle, Claudius Nero ordered Hasdrubal’s severed head to be thrown into Hannibal’s camp.
Hannibal Barca
Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus Cunctator [accept Fabian strategy or Fabius the Delayer]
Battle of the Metaurus River [accept Battle of Metauro River] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Classics, British or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
When this queen was 25 years old, her father locked her up and ruled as regent for 12 years until his death. For 10 points each:
Name this Queen of Castile who inherited her father’s kingdom of Aragon, but remained locked up while her son Charles V went on to rule the Holy Roman Empire -- leaving this mother of his locked up for the remaining 39 years of her life.
Joanna the Mad was locked up by this World’s Best Dad. This king married Isabella I of Castile, completed the Reconquista, and sponsored Columbus’s voyages to the New World.
This Spanish city was the location of the castle where Joanna was imprisoned. A treaty named for this city split the New World along a line halfway between Cape Verde and Hispaniola.
Joanna the Mad [accept Juana la Loca; accept Juana the Mad; accept Joanna of Castile; accept Juana of Castile]
Ferdinand II of Aragon [accept Ferdinand V of Castile; accept Ferdinand III of Naples; accept Fernando in place of Ferdinand]
Tordesillas [or Treaty of Tordesillas; accept Tordesilhas] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe &gt;
This man wrote about the beauty of the Ferghana Valley in his autobiography. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who claimed to be a descendant of Tamerlan and defeated the Lodi dynasty at the First Battle of Panipat (PAA-nee-putt).
Babur was the founder of this empire that reached its greatest heights under Aurangzeb. Shah Jahan, a ruler of this empire, built the Taj Mahal.
Babur’s son and Akbar’s father was this Mughal emperor who retook Delhi by defeating Sher Shah Suri. This man, who is buried in an ornate tomb, appointed Bairam Khan to lead the vast army he assembled.
Babur [or Zahīr ud-Dīn Muhammad]
Mughal Empire
Humayun [or Nasir-ud-Din Muḥammad] &lt; Sarod Nori | Non-Euro, Non-Commonwealth &gt;
This policy stated that “people of a Territory can, by lawful means, exclude slavery from their limits prior to the formation of a State constitution.” For 10 points each:
Name this policy formulated by Stephen Douglas in his debates with Abraham Lincoln. This policy, which derives its name from an Illinois city, was representative of Douglas’s “popular sovereignty” principle.
Douglas opposed the Lecompton Constitution, which was a pro-slavery constitution in this state. This state was created at the same time as Nebraska and John Brown was present in this state during its “bleeding” period.
Stephen Douglas served alongside Lyman Trumbull, who lost his bid for the 1872 Liberal Republican nomination to this politician. During the election, this politician received votes from the electoral college, despite the fact that he was dead.
Freeport Doctrine [accept substitutes for doctrine like “policy”]
Kansas
Horace Greeley &lt; Sarod Nori | US History &gt;
Answer some questions about some of the women facing their fair share of controversies while running in the Democratic primary for the election of 2020. For 10 points each:
This congresswoman, the only practicing Hindu in the House, served in Kuwait for two years. She has faced controversy for her ties to the nationalist organization Vishwa Hindu Parishad.
This progressive Massachusetts senator who proposed the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has faced controversy for her disputed Native American ancestry.
This senior senator from Minnesota has had to navigate accusations of poor leadership for her high staff turnover rate and reports of controlling her staffers by fear and intimidation.
Tulsi Gabbard
Elizabeth (Ann) Warren (née Herring) [prompt on Elizabeth Ann Herring]
Amy (Jean) Klobuchar &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Misc - Current Events &gt;
Name some important events involving the Quebec sovereignty movement. For 10 points each:
This agreement, which was not ratified due to the opposition of Manitoba and Newfoundland, declared that Quebec was a “distinct society.” It was the catalyst for the creation of the Bloc Québécois (BLOK ke-bec-WA).
The successor agreement to the Meech Lake Accord was named after Charlottetown, the capital of this smallest Canadian province. Another set of negotiations in this province led to the formation of the Canadian Confederation.
Brian Mulroney, the Prime Minister during the Meech Lake and Charlottetown Accords, was a member of this party. This party, the successor to John Macdonald’s party, formed the opposition during World War II.
Meech Lake Accord [or Accord du lac Meech]
Prince Edward Island [accept Île-du-Prince-Édouard; accept PEI]
Progressive Conservative Party of Canada [or Parti progressiste-conservateur du Canada; prompt on Conservative; prompt on PC; prompt on Tory; prompt on Progressive; prompt on Conservateur; prompt on Progressiste] &lt; Sarod Nori | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
The Treaty of Riga ended this war between a Central European country and a country whose October Revolution saw the overthrow of its Tsar and rise of the Communist Bolsheviks. For 10 points each:
Name this war in which forces led by Leon Trotsky invaded a country whose border is defined by the Oder-Neisse and Curzon lines. The two sides in this war split Ukraine and Belarus between themselves.
This man led Poland during the Polish-Soviet War. He called for a union with Ukraine and was the principal political antagonist of Roman Dmowski.
This founder of the Bolsheviks and leader of Soviet Russia during the Polish-Soviet War issued the April Theses following his train ride from Switzerland in a sealed boxcar.
Polish-Soviet War [accept answers that mention a post-World War I and pre-World War II war between Poland and Russia such as Polish-Russian War of 1919-1921; or Russo-Polish War of 1919-1921; accept Second Russo-Polish War; accept Polish-Bolshevik War; accept War of 1920; prompt on Russo-Polish war; prompt on Polish Front]
Józef Klemens Piłsudski (piw-SHUD-ski) [accept reasonable pronunciations]
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin [accept Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe History &gt;
In the last of the Byzantine-Sassanid wars, these people revolted against the Byzantines, reinforcing Sassanid general Shahrbaraz’s army with 20,000 men. For 10 points each:
Name these people that assisted the Sasanian conquest of Jerusalem, made plans for the construction of a Third Temple, and attempted to conquer Tyre. These people soon fell out of Sassanid favor and instead were heavily taxed.
While capturing Jerusalem, Shahrbaraz took this Christian artifact as a trophy. After the Byzantines won the Battle of Nineveh, Emperor Heraclius recovered this item from Shahrbaraz as part of the terms of Sassanid surrender and raised this item above an altar at the Hagia Sophia.
This first Islamic caliphate, established after Muhammad’s death, won the Battle of Yarmouk against Heraclius and conquered the Levant and Egypt from the Byzantines.
Jews [accept non-slur logical equivalents like Jewish people or Judaic people]
True Cross
Rashidun caliphate [prompt on Rightly Guided caliphate or caliphs] &lt; Nathan Fredman | Classics, Britain or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
Captain Gardiner produced the never-circulated bank notes for this country, with stars unusually looking similar to the Star of David. For 10 points each:
Name this short-lived country lead by Abd-el-Krim during a war that ended with France sending 100,000 troops to occupy this country.
The Rif War occurred between Spain and some of the Berber tribes revolting against colonial rule in this modern-day country.
At the age of 33, this man was promoted to Brigadier-General after leading the first wave of Spanish troops in the Rif War. This man ruled a party with an ideology fused from the Falange and Carlist parties.
Republic of the Rif [accept The Confederal Republic of the Tribes of the Rif; accept Rif Republic or The Riff; accept Rif War]
Kingdom of Morocco
Francisco Franco (Bahamonde) &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
This rebellion’s leader was termed “the Prophet” because he would preach the Bible to other slaves. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of an 1831 slave rebellion who was caught with his Bible in hand 6 weeks after his rebellion that killed 60 white people before it was put down by local Virginian militia.
This former slave planned a slave uprising in Charleston to begin on Bastille Day until his plan was revealed and he was executed.
This largest slave rebellion in colonial America was led by Jemmy, also known as Cato. This rebellion was put down by the South Carolina militia at the Battle of Edisto River.
Nat Turner’s Rebellion
Denmark Vesey
Stono Rebellion [accept Stono River Rebellion] &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
This country’s head of state is called <em>Drug Gyalpo</em> or “Dragon King” as the people of this country refer to themselves as Drukpa or “dragons.” For 10 points each:
Name this country whose official language is Dzongkha.
Bhutan’s government states that its goal is to raise the Gross National value of this quantity for its citizens. Finland ranked first on the World Report for this quantity in 2018.
Drukpa is also a branch of the Kagyu school of this historical region’s branch of Buddhism. The Gelug school of Buddhism of this historical region is led by the Dalai Lama.
Kingdom of Bhutan
happiness [accept descriptions of making citizens happy or joyful]
Tibet &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Miscellaneous &gt;
Guantánamo Bay is on the southern coast of the main island of this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the Bay of Pigs invasion failed to overthrow its Prime Minister and leader of its Communist Party -- Fidel Castro.
In 2000, a SWAT operation in Miami reunited this boy with his Cuban father. The handling of this boy’s custody battle likely cost Al Gore crucial votes in Florida in the 2000 election.
This first female Attorney General oversaw the González incident as well as the Waco raid and the conviction of the 1993 World Trade Center bombers.
Republic of Cuba [or República de Cuba]
Elián González
Janet Wood Reno &lt; Sarod Nori | US History &gt;
Violence plagued the 1970s and 1980s for European countries. For 10 points each:
This Italian prime minister’s Christian Democracy party managed to reach a “Historic Compromise” with the Italian Communist Party, but was kidnapped and killed by the Red Brigades in 1978.
Christer Pettersson was convicted, but was later acquitted, of the assassination of this Swedish prime minister, a vocal opponent of apartheid. He was killed in 1986 after watching the film Mozart Brothers.
Eleven members of the Israel Olympic team were killed by the terrorist group Black September during the 1972 Olympics in this Bavarian city.
Aldo (Romeo Luigi) Moro
(Sven) Olof (Joachim) Palme [do NOT accept or prompt on “Lisbet Palme”]
Munich &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe History &gt;
Answer the following questions about Southeast Asian kingdoms influenced by India. For 10 points each:
This civilization built the temple complex of Mỹ Sơn (me sehn) and controlled the spice trade through their port city of Hội An. This kingdom instituted Hinduism as their state religion after coming in contact with the Indianized kingdom of Funan to the west.
A stone tablet made by this civilization contains the very first written use of the numeral zero as a decimal figure. The Champa sacked this other Indianized civilization’s capital of Angkor in 1177.
The Khmer civilization was the largest and most powerful civilization to exist in this modern-day country. This country’s Khmer Rouge was led by Pol Pot who established many “killing fields” near Phnom Penh (pa-NOM pen).
Champa Kingdom [accept nagara Campa; accept Chiêm Thành]
Khmer Empire
Kingdom of Cambodia [accept prĕəh riəciənaacak kampuciə; accept Royaume du Cambodge] &lt; Jonathan Lau | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
This battle was a stunning victory for Michiel de Ruyter and helped the Dutch Republic win a war that lasted between 1665 and 1667, the second of four wars with a similar name. For 10 points each:
Name this battle near Chatham. A failure of the Gillingham Line in this battle led to the capture of the HMS Royal Charles and forced negotiations resulting in the Treaty of Breda.
The Raid on the Medway took place in this country where the Glorious Revolution led to the accession of William III and Mary II as co-monarchs.
The events of the Anglo-Dutch wars were recorded in the diary of this Secretary to the Admiralty under Charles II and James II.
Raid on the Medway
Kingdom of England [prompt on United Kingdom; prompt on Great Britain]
Samuel Pepys (PEEPS) &lt; Sarod Nori | Classics, Commonwealth or Britain, Other &gt;
This city was once the center of the Sogdian civilization. For 10 points each:
Name this city where astronomy hobbyist and sultan Ulugh Beg compiled the Zij-i-Sultani star catalogue. People would gather to hear royal proclamations and watch executions in this city’s Registan Square.
Samarkand was a major hub on this ancient trade route whose name derived from the trade of a profitable textile fiber produced from a certain worm.
In order to promote merchants to trek the Silk Road, these buildings were set up to give travellers a place to rest. These Persian inns were built outside of towns unlike their Khan counterpart.
Samarkand
Silk Road
caravanserai [or caravansaries] &lt;Jonathan Lau | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
Answer some questions about the history of some islands in Europe that are not Great Britain or Ireland. For 10 points each:
Pasquale Paoli declared a republic on this island in 1755 after it won its independence from the Republic of Genoa. This French island is the birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte.
This Norwegian territory’s namesake treaty regulates commercial and military activities. This Arctic archipelago is home to one of the largest seed banks in the world -- the Global Seed Vault.
This Nordic city, once known as “Gamla stan,” is spread across fourteen islands. In 1520, Christian II led this city’s namesake “bloodbath.”
Collectivity of Corsica [or Collectivité territoriale de Corse; or Cullettività territuriale di Corsica; do NOT accept or prompt on “Corsu” or “Corsican” or “Corsa”]
Svalbard [prompt on Spitsbergen; do NOT accept or prompt on “Jan Mayen”]
Stockholm &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe History &gt;
Answer the following questions about famous crowns in history. For 10 points each:
This kingdom’s golden crowns show strong influences from Siberian shamanism and were excavated from this kingdom’s Gold Crown and Heavenly Horse Tombs. This kingdom defeated the Baekje and Goguryeo to end the Three Kingdoms period.
This ruler is the current owner of the Imperial State Crown of the United Kingdom which contains the Cullinan II diamond.
The largest cut diamond in the world is this diamond whose name is Persian for “Mountain of Light.”
Silla [accept Shilla; prompt on Korea; do NOT accept or prompt on “North Korea” or “South Korea”]
Queen Elizabeth II [prompt on Elizabeth; do NOT accept or prompt on “Queen Elizabeth I” or “Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother”]
Koh-i-Noor &lt; Jonathan Lau | Classical, Commonwealth or Britain, Other History &gt;
Name some American currencies that experienced depreciation. For 10 points each:
This fiat paper currency was issued by Congress during the American Revolution. Because of overprinting and British counterfeiting, this currency was worthless by 1781, giving rise to the phrase “not worth a [this currency].”
This other currency, nicknamed Greybacks, rapidly lost value during the American Civil War. After the government that issued them surrendered at Appomattox Court House, this currency became worthless.
The American dollar was speculated to depreciate in response to the Federal Reserve implementing a strategy of quantitative easing in the midst of this financial crisis. Either the general name or the year is fine.
continental currency
Confederate States of America dollars [prompt on dollar bill; prompt on answers involving Confederacy money or currency that does not use the words “Confederate dollar”; do not accept or prompt on “U.S. dollar”]
Great Recession [accept Financial Crisis of 2007-2008 with at least one year mentioned; prompt on answers describing the subprime mortgage banking crisis; prompt on answers mentioning the housing bubble] &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
Answer some questions about the aftermath of Roman withdrawal from Britain. For 10 points each:
The Roman Emperor Honorius withdrew troops from Britain in response to this man’s invasion of Italy. After destroying Aquileia and Cremona, this king of the Visigoths sacked Rome in 410 AD and died as his tribe marched south into Calabria.
In his work De Excidio et Conquestu Britanniae, the medieval writer St. Gildas retold an incident in which a Christian king defeated these people at the Battle of Badon. The language of these people is also known as Old English.
This archeological site was discovered on the estate of Edith Pretty in 1939 and is thought to be the final resting place of Raedwald, king of East Anglia. Although his body had dissolved, excavators unearthed numerous ornate metal artifacts owned by the king, including this site’s namesake helmet.
Alaric I [or Alarico I; or Alarich I]
Anglo-Saxons [Accept Angles, Saxons, or Jutes alone, or just two out of three]
Sutton Hoo Ship Burial &lt; Jonathan Lau | Classics, Britain or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
After losing to the Demak sultanate, the Majapahit emperors retreated to this non-Javanese island. For 10 points each:
Name this island with a capital at Denpasar. This island’s nine major kingdoms accepted the Dewa Agung of Klungkung as primus inter pares or first among equals.
The Majapahits once controlled this modern-day city-state whose last ruler was Parameswara. The Sultanate of Johor also ruled this city-state at the tip of the Malay peninsula.
The Majapahit defeat of the Kingdom of Singapura led to the establishment of this non-Johor Sultanate. This Sultanate’s control of a namesake body of water contributed to a spreading of Malay culture around Southeast Asia.
Bali
Singapore [accept Kingdom of Singapura; accept Kerajaan Singapura]
Malacca Sultanate [accept Kesultanan Melayu Melaka] &lt; Sarod Nori | Non-Euro, Non-Commonwealth &gt;
Name these historical events associated with people with funny names. For 10 points each:
Cotton Mather, son of Increase Mather, was involved in this event. Nathaniel Hawthorne altered his name to avoid being associated with one of his ancestors involved in this event.
Nicholas Unless-Jesus-Christ-Had-Died-For-Thee-Thou-Hadst-Been-Damned Barbon established the first successful property insurance company after this event. Christopher Wren built St. Paul’s Cathedral and redesigned many buildings after this disastrous 1666 event.
Alcibiades DeBlanc formed a group known as [this word] “of the White Camelia.” Uriah Stephens founded a group whose shortened name begins with this word that was led by Terence Powderly.
Salem witch trials [prompt on Salem trials; prompt on witch trials]
Great Fire of London [prompt on partial answers; accept Great London Fire; accept London Fire of 1666; and other equivalents mentioning both “London” and “Fire.”]
Knights &lt; Sarod Nori | Classics, Commonwealth or Britain, Other History &gt;
This woman was executed by guillotine during the Reign of Terror due to her support for the Girondins. For 10 points each:
Name this French woman who wrote Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen.
The Girondins opposed the Montagnards (moan-tan-yards), whose members included this “incorruptible” leader of the Reign of Terror. This man ordered the execution of his former political ally Georges Danton.
Robespierre was assassinated during a “reaction” named for this eleventh month of the French Revolutionary calendar. This month starts in mid-July, ends in mid-August, and precedes Fructidor.
Olympe de Gouges (de-GOOZH) [accept Marie Gouze]
Maximilien François Marie Isidore de Robespierre
Thermidor [accept Thermidorian Reaction; accept Fervidor] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe &gt;
This city was initially known as Holmgard and defeated the Teutonic Order at the Battle on the Ice. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian city on the Volkhov River where the Rurikid dynasty ruled until this city’s assimilation into the Grand Duchy of Moscow by Ivan III in 1478.
Novgorod was part of an entity called this city’s “Rus.” This city is located on the Dnieper River in modern-day Ukraine.
Eastern European Vikings were given this name by the Byzantines. Six thousand people known by this name formed the Byzantine emperor’s personal guard.
Novgorod [or Veliky Novgorod; accept Novgorod the Great; accept Novgorod Veliky]
Kiev [or Kyiv]
Varangians [accept Væringjar; accept Várangoi; accept Variágoi] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe &gt;
Answer some questions about amendments to the U.S. constitution. For 10 points each:
This amendment granted women the right to vote. It was passed following an amendment banning “intoxicating liquors.”
A follow up to the 19th amendment was this unratified constitutional amendment, which sought to stop discrimination on the basis of sex.
Of all 36 states involved in a vote to ratify the 13th amendment, there were a few that took awhile to get around to approving the banning of slavery. In February of 2013, this state became the final state to ratify the 13th, after initially rejecting it.
19th amendment
Equal Rights Amendment [or ERA]
Mississippi &lt; Michael Etzkorn | US History &gt;
The Ezeiza massacre took place after this leader’s return from exile, leading him to expel the Montoneros from the Justicialist party. For 10 points each:
Name this leader whose country was put through a “National Reorganization Process” after his death in 1974.
The “National Reorganization Process” was better known by this name. This “war” was a part of Operation Condor and saw the disappearance of more than 30,000 people.
The Dirty War took place in this country, formerly led by Juan Perón. This country fought a war with Britain over the Falkland Islands.
Juan Domingo Perón
Dirty War [or Guerra Sucia]
Argentina [or Argentine Republic] &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
This division of ancient Egypt was called the Sedgeland and was represented by the white crown in the pharaoh's regalia. For 10 points each:
Name this Theban based kingdom that unified Egypt for a second time, ushering in the Middle Kingdom when Pharaoh Mentuhotep II conquered his northern adversaries.
This man is considered to have originally unified Egypt, possibly commemorated in his namesake palette where the red crown of Lower Egypt and the white crown of Upper Egypt are shown together.
Narmer was buried in brick-lined chambers, a far cry from these massive tombs that Old Kingdom Pharaohs were buried in. The largest of these tombs was built in Giza by Khufu.
Upper Egypt
Narmer [accept Menes]
pyramids &lt; Nathan Fredman | Classics, British or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
This ruler went to the Rio Grande do Sul to volunteer at the front lines, leading him to be called the “Number-one Volunteer.” For 10 points each:
Name this emperor who abolished slavery in his country with the Golden Law.
Pedro II was the second and final ruler of this empire whose capital was seated in Rio de Janeiro.
The Piratini Republic was proclaimed by Antonio de Sousa Neto, triggering this uprising against Pedro II. Giuseppe Garibaldi led the navy for the Piratini Republic during this war.
Dom Pedro II [prompt on Pedro]
Empire of Brazil [accept Federative Republic of Brazil or República Federativa do Brasil]
Ragamuffin War [accept Guerra dos Farrapos; accept Revolução Farroupilha] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
“The Obelisk” of Axum, Ethiopia is actually this kind of object, since it is not topped by a pyramid. For 10 points each:
Name this type of monument, one of which was famously studied by Jean-François Champollion.
The wall of this building that faces Mecca is dominated by three boxy minarets, while every wall is decorated with rodier palm sticks. This mudbrick building exemplifies the traits of Malian architecture.
The Great Enclosure is an impressive system of walls at a “great” city in this country. Soapstone bird sculptures found in that city became a symbol of this southern African country with capital at Harare.
stele [or stela]
Great Mosque of Djenné [accept anything mentioning both Djenné and Great Mosque; prompt on Great Mosque; prompt on Mosque of Djenné by asking “Described by what adjective?”]
Republic of Zimbabwe [accept Great Zimbabwe] &lt; Bryan Lu | Other Fine Arts &gt;
Lots of countries change their names. For 10 points each:
In 2019, this country agreed to change its name in order to ease its entrance into NATO and the EU, ending a decades long feud with Greece.
In 2018 King Mswati III issued an order to change this country’s name as a rejection of the colonial name used by the British. This diarchic country is Africa’s last absolute monarchy.
This home country of Aung San Suu Kyi (ong san soo CHEE) has had to deal with ethnic violence in its Rakhine state. Military junta renamed this country in 1989 and moved this country’s capital from Yangon to Nay Pyi Taw (nay-PEE-dah).
Republic of North Macedonia [accept Republic of Macedonia]
Kingdom of eSwatini [accept Swaziland]
Myanmar [accept Burma] &lt; Brad McLain / Sarod Nori | Current Events &gt;
Vice President George M. Dallas cast the tie-breaking vote in the Senate to pass this tariff, which replaced the Black tariff. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century tariff named for the Secretary of the Treasury who suggested it. This tariff was implemented on the belief that decreased tariff rates would increase commerce between Great Britain and the United States.
This Democrat signed the Walker Tariff into law. This Tennessean, the only Speaker of the House elected president, resolved the Oregon Territory dispute and was president during the Mexican-American war.
Polk sent John Slidell to negotiate with Mexico over the Texas border. Slidell and James Murray Mason were later removed from a British ship by the USS San Jacinto in this Civil War-era incident.
Walker Tariff of 1846 [prompt on Tariff of 1846]
James K. Polk [or James Knox Polk]
Trent Affair &lt; Michael Etzkorn | US History &gt;
Answer some questions about Roman relations with Germania. For 10 points each:
Augustus told this man to “give me back my legions” after the battle of Teutoburg Forest. This man, the first Roman governor of Germania, committed suicide after losing three legions in the battle.
This Germanic chieftain was victorious at the battle of Teutoburg Forest. His namesake “denkmal” is a statue of him located in Detmold in eastern North Rhine-Westphalia.
The battle of Teutoburg Forest hindered the Roman expansion into Germania and contributed to the rise of this Germanic tribe which split from the Visigoths.
Publius Quinctilius Varus
Arminius [or Hermann; or Armin; or Irmin]
Ostrogoths [do NOT accept or prompt on “Goths”] &lt; Sarod Nori | Classics, Britain, or Commonwealth &gt;
Vaclav Havel was the last president of this country before its 1993 split into its constituent parts. For 10 points each:
Name this former country. Alexander Dubcek promulgated the ideology of “socialism with a human face” during the Prague Spring in this country.
The dissolution of Czechoslovakia is sometimes known by this name in reference to a similarly named “Revolution” which saw the downfall of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia.
This last Communist president of Czechoslovakia was overthrown in the Velvet Revolution. His controversial policy of “normalization” saw a return to pre-Prague Spring conditions.
Czechoslovakia [accept Czech and Slovak Federative Republic; accept Fifth Czechoslovak Republic; accept Československá federativní republika; accept Česko-slovenská federatívna republika; accept Československo; do NOT accept or prompt on “Czechia” or “Czech Republic” or “Slovakia” or “Slovak Republic” or “Česká republika” or “Česko” or “Slovensko” or “Slovenská republika”]
Velvet Divorce [prompt on Velvet; prompt on Divorce; do NOT accept or prompt on “Velvet Revolution”]
Gustáv Husák &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental Europe History &gt;
An assassination attempt was made on this man through a performance of a sword dance at the Feast at Hong Gate. For 10 points each:
Name this man who defeated Xiang Yu at the Battle of Gaixia.
Liu Bang founded this dynasty, which was followed by the Three Kingdoms period. China’s majority ethnic group is named after this dynasty.
This dynasty divided the Han Dynasty into the Western Han and the Eastern Han. The Red Eyebrows Rebellion occurred in this dynasty, which ultimately caused its downfall.
Liu Bang [or Emperor Gaozu of Han; prompt on “Liu”; prompt on “Gaozu”]
Han Dynasty
Xin (shin) Dynasty [do NOT accept or prompt on “Qin Dynasty” -- ask a player to spell their answer if you are unsure] &lt; Mike Hu | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
The Taoiseach (<em>tee-SHOCK</em>) is a member of the Oireachtas (<em>ERR-ek-tess</em>), an example of this type of body. For 10 points each:
Name this body that passes laws and can either be unicameral or bicameral. The British one of these bodies meets in Westminster and consists of the House of Lords and the House of Commons.
This first Taoiseach (tee-SHOCK) and founder of Fianna Fail (FEE-ah-nuh FOIL) declared Irish neutrality in World War II. He was the main architect of the Irish constitution.
Eamon de Valera left this political party to form the Fianna Fail. This party’s name translates to “We Ourselves.”
Legislature [accept Parliament; accept Congress; accept Legislative body]
Éamon de Valera (ay-MAHN duh va-LAY-ruh) [accept George de Valero; accept Edward de Valera; do NOT accept or prompt on “Vivion de Valera” or “Sinead de Valera”]
Sinn Fein [do NOT accept or prompt on “Irish Republican Army”] &lt; Sarod Nori | Classics, Britain or Commonwealth, Other History &gt;
This March 1781 battle was a Pyrrhic victory for Cornwallis and caused him to turn toward Virginia in order to avoid another disaster like the Battle of Camden. For 10 points each:
Name this battle where a British force demoralized by the outcome of Pyle’s massacre defeated a larger American force. After this battle, Charles James Fox remarked that “Another such victory would ruin the British Army!”
This Rhode Island-born general led American forces at Guilford Court House. He replaced Horatio Gates as the commander of the Continental Army in the South.
The battle of Guilford Court House took place near Greensboro in this state. This state is (emphasize) north of the state where the battles of Cowpens and Charleston took place.
Battle of Guilford Court House [prompt on partial answers]
Nathanael Greene
North Carolina [do NOT accept or prompt on “South Carolina” or “Carolina”] &lt; Sarod Nori | US History &gt;
This woman and her husband were exiled to Hawaii after the People Power Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this woman. Over a thousand pairs of shoes owned by this “Steel Butterfly” were found after the Malacañang Palace was stormed.
Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos led this country from Manila until their deposition in 1986.
This woman took power after the People Power Revolution deposed the Marcos family. This woman’s husband, Benigno, was assassinated after he returned from exile in 1983.
Imelda Marcos [or Imelda Remedios Visitación Romuáldez; prompt on Marcos]
Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas; or Filipinas]
Corazon Aquino [or Maria Corazon "Cory" Cojuangco Aquino] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Euro, Non-Commonwealth &gt;
This company was heavily criticized in 2018 for allegedly allowing hate speech and calls for violence to be spread en masse. For 10 points each:
Name this company founded by Mark Zuckerberg that removed many high ranking military leaders from its platform after it was used to promote the genocide of the Rohingya people.
The spread of hate speech led to the temporary banning of Facebook in this island nation, where 2018 anti-Muslim riots led to the death of three people in Kandy District.
Facebook has been accused of censoring pages in support of this minority group. Members of this group have been one of the major forces fighting ISIS, and they seek to establish their namesake country between Turkey and Syria.
Facebook(, Inc.)
(Democratic Socialist Republic of) Sri Lanka
Kurds &lt; Jaden Lucas | Current Events &gt;
This document called for the removal of fishing-weirs. For 10 points each:
Name this document that gave all “free men” the right to a fair trial. This document was written in heavily abbreviated Latin and signed at Runnymede.
This English King, who was jokingly called “Lackland” by his father, was coerced by the Barons into signing the Magna Carta at Runnymede.
This clause of the Magna Carta gave a group of twenty-five barons the right to seize the king’s possessions. This clause’s unsuccessful implementation led to the First Barons’ War.
Magna Carta [or Magna Carta Libertatum; or Great Charter of Liberties]
King John [accept John, King of England]
Clause 61 [accept security clause] &lt; Mike Hu | Classics, British or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
The establishment of this country was the goal of the Zionism movement. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle Eastern country that defeated its Arab neighbors in the Yom Kippur War.
This only female Israeli Prime Minister led her country during the Yom Kippur War and authorized Operation Wrath of God against Black September.
Meir was preceded by this man, the first Israeli Prime Minister to die in office. This man led Israel during the Six-Day War and appointed Moshe Dayan as Defense Minister.
State of Israel
Golda Meir (ma-YEAR) [accept Golda Mabovitch]
Levi Eshkol &lt; Sarod Nori | Non-European, Non-Commonwealth History &gt;
Backlash over the Trisakti shootings and a 1997 financial crisis lead to this man’s resignation. For 10 points each:
Name this longtime dictator and leader of the “New Order” movement who overthrew Sukarno in 1965.
Suharto was the leader of this former Dutch colony with capital Jakarta.
Suharto perpetrated the Santa Cruz massacre against protesters lobbying for the independence of this former Portuguese colony. This country finally gained its independence in 2002.
Suharto
Indonesia
East Timor [accept Timor-Leste] &lt; Patrick Minsker | World History &gt;
This affair helped contribute to the election of Woodrow Wilson as president. For 10 points each:
Name this controversy over the sale of Alaskan coal fields that split the Republican party prior to the 1912 election. It primarily concerned the US forest service chief and the secretary of the Interior.
Gifford Pinchot was appointed US forest service chief by this conservationist president. The affair prompted this man to run under the Bull Moose party in 1912.
Theodore Roosevelt toured Yosemite with this Scottish naturalist. This man helped establish Yosemite national park and co-founded the Sierra club.
Ballinger-Pinchot Affair
Theodore Roosevelt [accept Teddy Roosevelt, prompt on Roosevelt]
John Muir &lt; Patrick Minsker | American History &gt;
A boiler explosion on one of these ships, the <em>Sultana</em>, caused 1,192 deaths and is considered the worst maritime disaster in American history. For 10 points each:
Name this type of ship, developed by Robert Fulton. In the golden age of these ships, they consumed so much wood that the banks of the Mississippi were deforested.
This city, at the terminus of a namesake “Trace”, was a major stopping point for steamboats to load cotton and sugarcane. There have been nine river steamboats with this name, one of which lost a race to the Robert E. Lee.
In this 1824 case, a steamboat license given to Robert Fulton was ruled unconstitutional since it granted Fulton and Robert Livingston a monopoly on New York steamboat traffic.
steamboat
Natchez
Gibbons v. Ogden [accept Ogden v. Gibbons; prompt on Gibbons; prompt on Ogden] &lt; Nathan Fredman | US History &gt;
From 1893 to 1894, Hendrik Witbooi attempted to rebel against European colonists in what is now this country. For 10 points each:
Adolf Lüderitz founded a colony in this modern day country in 1882, and it officially became a German possession in 1884. Its capital city of Windhoek contains three German castles.
This Namibian ethnic group was targeted in an 1904-1908 genocide led by Lothar von Trotha along with the related Namaqua people. Women of this ethnic group often wear traditional German blouses and dresses.
This region’s namesake Liberation Army failed to force a secession during a 1994-1999 conflict. It was named after Otto von Bismarck’s successor as Chancellor of Germany.
(Republic of) Namibia
Herero People
Caprivi Strip &lt; Jonathan Lau | Continental Europe &gt;
This president won the Election of 1920 with a campaign that promised a “return to normalcy.” For 10 points each:
Name this 29th president whose presidency was scandalized by the Teapot Dome Scandal.
This former senator from New Mexico was Harding’s Secretary of the Interior who was imprisoned after leasing naval oil reserves to Harry Sinclair and Edward Doheny as part of the Teapot Dome Scandal.
This man was Harding’s Attorney General and one of the leaders of the “Ohio Gang.” This man was forced to resign his position of Attorney General by Calvin Coolidge and was replaced by Harlan Fiske Stone.
Warren G(amaliel) Harding
Albert Bacon Fall
Harry M(icajah) Daugherty &lt; Mitch McCullar | US History &gt;
This battle was part of a consolidation of power that started after Liudolf’s rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name this battle that took place near Augsburg, a victory for the husband of Adelaide and son of Henry the Fowler.
Otto the Great, the victor at Lechfeld, was crowned by Pope John XII (twelfth) as the head of this confederation of mostly German states.
The Magyars, who were defeated at Lechfeld, would go on to establish the Kingdom of Hungary under this member of the Árpád dynasty. This man was canonized by Pope Gregory VII in 1083.
Battle of Lechfeld
Holy Roman Empire [accept HRE; prompt on Holy Roman; do NOT accept or prompt on “Roman Empire” or “Roman” or “Holy”]
Saint Stephen [accept Stephen I; accept Vajk; accept Szent István király; accept Sanctus Stephanus; prompt on Stephen; prompt on István; prompt on Stephanus] &lt; Sarod Nori | Continental European History &gt;
This man’s namesake dyke marked the Mercia-Powys (<em>POH-wiss</em>) border. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Mercia and successor of Æthelbald. His wife, Cynethryth (si-nuh-TRITH), is the only Anglo-Saxon woman to have coinage issued in her name.
This other Anglo-Saxon, a king of Wessex, is one of two kings of England to have the epithet “the Great.” This man, who is not Canute, defeated the Vikings at the Battle of Edington.
The Anglo-Saxon kingdoms were part of this group. The conflict between the kingdoms in this group continued until Æthelstan’s (eh-thell-STEN) unification of England.
Offa
Alfred the Great
Heptarchy &lt; Sarod Nori | Classics, British or Commonwealth, Other &gt;
Three divisions of this group fought in the Spanish Civil as part of the Corps of Volunteer Troops. For 10 points each:
Name this group that attempted to oust Luigi Facta with the 1922 March on Rome. This paramilitary group disbanded after the 1943 Armistice of Cassibile.
The Blackshirts were a part of the National Fascist Party and swore loyalty to this man. This man was nicknamed Il Duce.
Before the Blackshirts were formed, Mussolini worked as an editor for this Socialist newspaper. After Mussolini was ousted from the Socialist party, he quit his job at this newspaper and founded Il Popolo d’Italia.
Blackshirts [accept Milizia Volontaria per la Sicurezza Nazionale or MVSN; accept Voluntary Militia for National Security; accept camicie nere or CCNN; accept squadristi]
Benito (Amilcare Andrea) Mussolini
Avanti! [accept Forward!] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Continental Europe &gt;
This man was captured by Thomas Hunt and sold in the Spanish city of Málaga. For 10 points each:
Name this final member of the Patuxet group, who, according to William Bradford, died of “Indian Fever” in 1622. He taught early American settlers how to cultivate corn.
The aforementioned American settlers were primarily settlers who formed this colony, founded by the crew of the Mayflower in 1620.
This man acted as the military advisor for the Plymouth Colony at its founding. With the aid of the warrior Hobbamock, this man carried out the Nemasket raid after Tisquantum was captured by the Pocasset sachem Corbitant.
Tisquantum [or Squanto]
Plymouth Bay Colony [or New Plymouth]
Myles Standish [also spelled Miles Standish] &lt; Mitch McCullar | US History &gt;
There have been many Mexican revolutionaries and freedom fighters throughout history. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Morelos-based Liberation Army of the South whose Plan of Ayala denounced Francisco Madero. A modern-day Chiapas-based militant group has a name inspired by the demonym given to followers of this man.
John J. Pershing pursued this commander of the Division of the North after his raid of Columbus, New Mexico.
This Mexican independence leader who died at the battle of Calderón Bridge called for a rebellion in order to restore Ferdinand VII (seventh) to the throne.
Emiliano Zapata Salazar [prompt on Salazar]
Francisco “Pancho” Villa [accept José Doroteo Arango Arámbula]
Miguel Gregorio Antonio Francisco Ignacio Hidalgo-Costilla y Gallaga Mandarte Villaseñor &lt; Sarod Nori | Non-Euro, Non-Commonwealth &gt;
The “Lion Capital” of this ruler was erected at Sarnath. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor who fought a bloody war against the Kalinga (kuh-LING-uh) empire.
Ashoka converted to this pacifist religion after the bloody Kalinga Campaign.
This son of Ashoka helped spread Buddhism through Sri Lanka with his sister Sanghamitra.
Ashoka the Great [accept Asoka the Great; accept Ashoka Maurya]
Buddhism
Mahinda [or Mahendra] &lt; Sarod Nori | Non-Euro, Non-Commonwealth &gt;
A village inhabited by members of this group is the subject of an influential microhistory by Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie. For 10 points each:
Name these Occitan heretics, based in Southern France, who were massacred at Béziers during an early 13th-century crusade led by Simon de Montfort the Elder.
Known as gitanos in Spain, these speakers of the Caló language were persecuted in a Great Round-Up ordered by Ferdinand VI. Centuries later, these people were rounded up and massacred during the Porajmos
This minority group, whose Sephardic communities populated Iberia, was expelled from Spain by Ferdinand and Isabella’s Alhambra Decree. In Medieval Europe, these people were often accused of using Christian children’s blood to make matzah.
Cathars [or Albigensians]
Romani [or Roma; or Gypsies; or Kalé]
Jews [or Jewish people; or Judaism]
This man introduced the term “fog of war” in a book posthumously published by his wife. For 10 points each:
Name this Prussian theorist who declared “war is the continuation of politics by other means” in his influential tract On War.
Clausewitz was captured by Napoleon’s army at this 1806 battle, a decisive defeat for Prussia. Georg Hegel, who witnessed this battle, argued that it constituted the “end of history”
After Prussia capitulated to the French via the Treaty of Tilsit, Clausewitz served in this non-British country’s German Legion. Clausewitz aided this country’s general Mikhail Kutuzov at the Battle of Borodino.
Carl von Clausewitz
Battle of Jena-Auerstedt [accept either]
Russia
In the poem “Silver Lining,” Carol Ann Duffy describes how the flight cancellations of this year enabled her to hear “the music silence summons, that Shakespeare heard.” For 10 points each:
Name this year in which an eruption of Eyjafjallajökull [“AY-ah-FEE-ut-la-YEH-kee-tull”] volcano created a giant ash cloud over Europe, grounding all flights on the continent from late April to early May.
Eyjafjallajokull is located in the Suðurland region of this country. During the 2010 flight disruptions, many tourists were unable to fly out of Keflavik International Airport, which serves this country’s capital city, Reykjavik.
Due to the flight cancellations, many world leaders were unable to attend the 2010 funeral of Lech Kaczynski [“LEKH kuh-CHIN-skee”], the president of this country, who had died in a plane crash unrelated to the volcanic ash cloud.
2010
Iceland
Poland
Josiah Whitney derided this man as an “ignoramus” and a “mere sheepherder.” For 10 points each:
Name this Scottish-American whose advocacy in The Century Magazine helped lead to the creation of Yosemite National Park. This naturalist founded the Sierra Club.
Muir was a friend of this conservationist President who signed the Antiquities Act and established the U.S. Forest Service. This “Bull Moose” candidate challenged William Howard Taft for the presidency in 1912.
One cause of the Roosevelt’s split from the Republican Party was Taft’s firing of this U.S. Forest Service Chief. John Muir feuded with this conservationist over the damming of the Hetch Hetchy Valley.
John Muir
Theodore Roosevelt [or TR; or Teddy Roosevelt; prompt on Roosevelt
Gifford Pinchot
A polity ruled by members of this ethnic group stationed tax-collecting <em>basqaqs</em> in cities like Vladimir. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group whose Golden Horde extracted tribute from Russia for over two hundred years.
Ivan III, a Grand Prince of this city, freed Russians from the “Tatar Yoke” of the Golden Horde at the Great Stand on the Ugra River. Ivan invited Italian architects to renovate Russia’s most famous kremlin in this city, its capital.
Ivan the Terrible constructed St. Basil’s Cathedral in Moscow to commemorate the capture of this city, the capital of a splinter khanate of the Golden Horde.
Mongols [or Tatars]
Moscow [or Muscovy]
Kazan
Children who spoke this language in school were whipped with a stick called “the Not.” For 10 points each:
Name this language that David Lloyd George spoke at home as a child. Plaid Cymru (“PLIED CUM-ree”) advocates preserving this language by teaching it in schools.
Wales underwent this process after a 1997 referendum, which enabled the creation of a Welsh Assembly separate from Parliament. Through this process, Scotland and Northern Ireland have been granted independent legislatures while still retaining their seats in Parliament.
In 2016, 52% of Welsh voters supported the Brexit campaign, which has initiated Great Britain’s departure from this continental organization.
Welsh
devolution [accept word forms like devolving; accept devo max; accept maximum devolution; do not accept or prompt on “federalism”]
European Union [or EU]
Police in this city were referred to as “White Mice” by US soldiers due to their distinctive white helmets. For 10 points each:
Name this city from which American soldiers were dramatically evacuated on April 30, 1975. An iconic photograph depicts a line of evacuees attempting to board a small helicopter on the roof of this city’s American embassy.
While US troops began withdrawing from South Vietnam during Nixon’s presidency, this president was in office during the fall of Saigon. He became president after Nixon resigned during the Watergate scandal.
This politician allowed the CIA to operate out of Saigon’s US embassy during his time as President Kennedy’s Ambassador to South Vietnam. He was Richard Nixon’s running mate in the 1960 presidential election.
Saigon [or Ho Chi Minh City]
Gerald Ford [or Leslie Lynch King]
Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. [or Henry Cabot Lodge II; prompt on Henry Cabot Lodge; do not accept or prompt on Henry Cabot Lodge Sr.]
One company named for this body of water exchanged woolen point blankets with locals. For 10 points each:
Name this body of water named for a marooned explorer who captained the Half Moon. The drainage basin of this body of water was awarded to its namesake company as Rupert’s Land.
The Hudson’s Bay Company primarily traded for this commodity, which it harvested from beavers.
These mixed-race Canadian people descend from the union of fur traders and First Nations women. After Canada purchased Rupert’s Land, Louis Riel led a revolt of these people.
Hudson Bay [or Hudson’s Bay Company]
fur [or pelts; or equivalents]
the Métis [prompt on descriptive answers, such as mixed-race Canadians or half-Indian Canadians]
Thousands of Jews emigrated from this country after it blamed a series of March 1968 student protests on Zionists. For 10 points each:
Name this country where, two years later, protests over increased food prices brought Edward Gierek to power.
Gierek was toppled in 1980, shortly after signing the Gdańsk Agreement, which permitted the creation of this trade union. Under Lech Wałęsa [“LEKH vaw-WES-uh”], this organization led the anti-Communist movement in Poland.
This Polish Cardinal was elected Pope during Gierek’s rule. John Lewis Gaddis identifies this pontiff’s 1979 visit to Poland as the catalyst for the formation of the Solidarity movement.
Poland
Solidarity [or Solidarność]
Pope John Paul II [or Karol Wojtyła [“KEH-rul voy-TAY-wah"]]
This political party’s leadership was dominated by a clique of generals who had attended Whampoa Military Academy. For 10 points each:
Name this political party that was led by the former commandant of Whampoa Academy, Chiang Kai-Shek.
This wife of Chiang Kai-Shek helped negotiate his release after he was captured in the Xi’an [“SHEE-ahn”] Incident. Mao famously quipped that this woman loved power, while her two sisters loved money and China.
After the Kuomintang’s defeat in the Chinese Civil War, Chiang and Soong fled to this island, where they established the Republic of China.
: Kuomintang [or KMT; or Nationalist Party of China; or Guómíndǎng; or Chinese Nationalists; prompt on “Nationalists” or other partial answers]
Soong Mei-Ling
Taiwan [or Formosa]
In the Gentlemen’s Agreement of 1907, this country agreed to limit emigration to the United States so long as the US agreed to protect this country’s citizens on American soil. For 10 points each:
Name this country that experienced mostly peaceful relations with the United States until 1941, when its navy attacked Pearl Harbor.
This American commodore opened Japan to the West by sailing his “Black Ships” to Edo Bay and threatening to fire on the capital.
In 1866, the American steamer General Sherman attempted to emulate Perry’s expedition by visiting this non-Japanese East Asian city; however, the ship was destroyed by this city’s residents. The USS Pueblo was captured off the coast of this capital city, and is still held in this city today.
Japan
Matthew Perry [prompt on just Perry; do not accept or prompt on Oliver Hazard Perry]
Pyongyang
This figure used his four faces to oversee his kingdom in all directions. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Shaodian and Fubao who defeated the Yan Emperor at the Battle of Banquan.
The Yellow Emperor is a mythical figure from this country. People from this country are said to be the Yellow Emperor’s descendants.
The Yellow Emperor’s court historian, Cang Jie [“tsung JYE”], is known for this invention. Cang Jie, who had four eyes, is said to have invented this thing after observing the footprints of animals on the earth.
Yellow Emperor [or Huangdi]
China [or Zhongguo]
Chinese writing system [or Written Chinese; or Chinese alphabet; accept word forms]
A helmet with dragon illustrations was discovered near one of these objects that was used to bury King Raedwald at Sutton Hoo. For 10 points each:
Name these objects in which Viking leaders were often buried. In some instances, these objects were set on fire with corpses inside them in order to help the dead man’s soul reach Valhalla.
The most famous archaeological site in Britain is this monument on the Salisbury Plain. This stone circle’s trilithons align with the sunrise and sunset on the solstices.
The most famous archaeological site in Ireland, Tara, is located on and named for one of these geographical features. Maiden Castle is a well-preserved example of a type of “fort” named for these geographical features built in Britain during the Iron Age.
ships [or boats or longships]
Stonehenge
hills [or Hill of Tara or hillforts]
Alexios III Angelos inflicted this condition on his brother, Isaac II, after deposing him. For 10 points each:
Name this condition that, like castration, was commonly inflicted on political prisoners in the Byzantine court. The Diadochid ruler Antigonus the One-Eyed partially suffered from this condition.
During this campaign, the blind Venetian doge Enrico Dandolo helped Isaac’s son overthrow Alexios. The participants in this crusade never made it to the Holy Land, but ended up sacking the Byzantine capital instead.
An army of these people had 199 out of every 200 eyes removed after they were defeated by the Byzantines at the Battle of Kleidion. This ethnic group was subjugated by the Byzantine emperor Basil II.
blindness [accept equivalents]
Fourth Crusade [prompt on the Crusades]
Bulgars [or Bulgarians]
When asked how he would end cartel violence, this world leader described a strategy of “hugs, not bullets.” For 10 points each:
Name this populist leader of the National Regeneration Movement. He defeated Ricardo Anaya in a July 2018 presidential election.
Lopez Obrador is the president-elect of this country. With the United States and Canada, this country is party to the recently renegotiated NAFTA treaty.
Obrador campaigned on a promise to reform this state-owned Mexican oil company, which Obrador’s predecessor, Enrique Peña Nieto, attempted to privatize.
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador [or AMLO; prompt on partial answers]
Mexico
Pemex [or Petroleos Mexicanos]
According to legend, this ruler encased the courtesan Anarkali inside a cement wall to punish his son Salim for having an affair with her. For 10 points each:
Name this “great” emperor who won the Second Battle of Panipat three decades after his grandfather Babur won a battle at the same location. He founded a new capital for his empire at Fatehpur Sikir
Akbar led this Indian empire, whose emperor Shah Jahan built the Red Fort and the Taj Mahal.
While Akbar combined Islamic beliefs with Hindu practices, this sixth Mughal emperor reinstated the jizya tax on non-Muslims and executed the Sikh Guru Bahadur. He was given the title Alamgir, meaning “world-seizer.”
Akbar the Great [or Akbar I]
Mughal Empire
Aurangzeb [or Aurangzeb Alamgir]
The National Museum of Pasta in Italy is located in a palace named for one of this country’s heroes. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose feudal lords united under the general Skanderbeg to preserve this country’s independence. Later, this country was proclaimed “the world’s first atheist state” by its dictator Enver Hoxha [en-VAIR HOE-jah].
As a child, Skanderbeg was recruited by the Devshirme [“dev-SHUR-may”], or “blood tax,” to fill the ranks of the Janissaries, the slave soldiers of this Muslim empire from which he defected.
Albanian nationalists revere a flag, first hoisted by Skanderbeg, depicting one of these animals. At the 2018 World Cup, Granit Xhaka and Xherdan Shaqiri [jer-DAN shah-KEE-ree] were fined for making this animal’s symbol with their hands.
Albania
Ottoman Empire
double-headed eagle
This criminal killed Sheriff William J. Brady during the Lincoln County War. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary outlaw of the American West who was killed by Pat Garrett. This one-time cattle rustler was nicknamed for his youthful appearance.
Billy the Kid died in this state. This state’s city of Santa Fe is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the United States.
Billy the Kid’s killing was ordered by this governor who, as a Union general, infamously marched his division down the wrong road at the Battle of Shiloh. He also wrote Ben-Hur.
Billy the Kid [or William Bonney]
New Mexico
Lew Wallace
Dates in this city were most often measured by the appointment of new consuls. For 10 points each:
Name this city. According to Ab Urbe Condita, it was founded by Romulus on April 21, 753 BCE.
Ab Urbe Condita was written by this Roman historian, who also titles a set of Discourses by Niccolo Machiavelli.
Livy was a tutor of this stuttering emperor, whose own scholarly pursuits included histories of Carthage and the Etruscans, as well as the introduction of three new letters to the Latin alphabet.
Rome
Livy [or Titus Livius Patavinus or Discourses on Livy]
Claudius
This king minted copies of Abbasid coins with the Arabic lettering upside-down. For 10 points each:
Name this King of Mercia who built a namesake dyke on his kingdom’s western border.
Offa’s Dyke separates Mercia from this constituent country of the United Kingdom. The title “Prince of [this country]” is traditionally granted to the heir apparent to the British throne.
This English king created the title of Prince of Wales for his son after defeating Llywelyn ap Gruffudd [“lew-ELL-in AHP GRIFF-ith”] and conquering Wales. This “Hammer of the Scots” expelled the Jews from England in 1290.
Offa
Wales
Edward I [or Edward Longshanks; prompt on partial answers]
This ruler forbade halal and kosher butchering and banned the practice of circumcision in his domain. For 10 points each:
Name this conqueror who founded the Mongol Empire.
Despite his prohibition on certain ritual practices, Genghis Khan granted freedom of religion to his subjects in this secret law code, which was used to govern the Mongol Empire.
This distant descendant of Genghis Khan commissioned the production of Islamic art in his capital city, Samarkand. This conqueror razed the city of Delhi, and was sometimes called “lame” due to his limp.
Genghis Khan [or Chinggis Khan; or Temüjin]
The Yassa
Timur the Lame [or Tamerlane]
Answer the following about historically significant American roads, for 10 points each:
This President drew on his observations of the Autobahn as Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in Europe during World War II to authorize construction of the Interstate Highway System.
A funding bill for this road situated entirely within Kentucky was controversially vetoed by Andrew Jackson, who allegedly did so to spite his Kentuckian rival Henry Clay.
The Camino Real [“rey-AWL”], or “Royal Road,” connects the colonial-era missions in California founded by this Spanish friar. He was canonized as a saint in 2015 despite opposition from Native American groups.
Dwight D. “Ike” Eisenhower
Maysville Road
Saint Junípero Serra
Answer some questions about unusual racing competitions from around the world, for 10 points each:
Wife-carrying races are inexplicably popular in this Scandinavian country, which hosts many Nordic walking races in and around its capital city of Helsinki.
Every March, teams of sled dogs travel from Anchorage to Nome as part of this Alaskan sled dog race, which follows the path Gunnar Kaasen and his husky Balto took to deliver diphtheria serum to Nome in 1925.
Christopher McDougall's Born to Run brought attention to the Tarahumara people of this country, who are renowned for their abilities to run long distance races barefoot. The rodeo-like sport of charreada was invented in this country.
Republic of Finland [or Suomi]
Iditarod Trail Sled Race
Mexico
This country experienced the Killing Time after rebels issued the Sanquhar Declaration in response to a monarch’s renunciation of the Treaty of Breda. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Covenanters led by the Earl of Argyll fought off the imposition of episcopacy.
While king of Scotland, this monarch attempted to integrate the Church of Scotland with Anglican episcopacy in his Five Articles of Perth. This first Stuart king of England also authorized an English translation of the Bible.
This theologian ushered in the Scottish Reformation by writing the Scots Confession. He attacked female rulers in his pamphlet The First Blast of the Trumpet Against the Monstrous Regiment of Women.
Scotland [prompt on United Kingdom or Great Britain]
James I of England [or James VI of Scotland]
John Knox
This country’s independence was confirmed by the 1839 London Conference. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country where an 1830 performance of The Mute Girl of Portici inspired this country’s Walloon and Flemish ethnic groups to secede from the United Provinces.
The Mute Girl of Portici was a patriotic work of this type. Italian nationalists supported unification under King Victor Emmanuel II with their slogan “Viva Verdi,” which referenced the name of a composer of these works.
This French diplomat’s plan to partition Belgium and annex Wallonia was rejected at the London Conference. This notoriously duplicitous minister represented France at the Congress of Vienna.
Belgium
operas
Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord
U.N, Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld died in a plane crash en route to this country in 1961. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Simba rebels fought Moïse Tshombe after the overthrow and murder of Patrice Lumumba. Later, it was led by the dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, who renamed this country in 1971.
This motorcycle-riding revolutionary arrived in the Congo to instruct the Simbas in his foco theory of guerilla warfare. This Argentine-born comrade of Fidel Castro is immortalized in the Guerrillero Heroico photograph,
Che Guevara initially joined up with a Congolese rebel with this surname, but broke off on his own because that rebel was too lazy. Another former guerilla with this surname is the D.R. Congo’s current president.
Democratic Republic of the Congo [or Congo-Kinshasa; or Congo-Léopoldville; do not accept or prompt on “Zaire”]
Ernesto “Che” Guevara [prompt on El Che]
Kabila [Laurent-Désiré Kabila or Joseph Kabila]
Benjamin Tallmadge operated an espionage network in this city at George Washington’s request. For 10 points each:
Name this city infiltrated by the Culper Ring during its occupation by William Howe’s British forces. This city’s Great Fire of 1776 may have been set by arsonists loyal to the American cause.
After the British spy John André was captured, Tallmadge acted to stop him from being sent to this American general at West Point, whom Tallmadge correctly suspected of being a traitor.
Tallmadge was a Yale classmate of this other spy who was captured in New York City. Before being hanged, this spy exclaimed “I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country.”
New York City
Benedict Arnold
Nathan Hale
. The Annals of one of this empire’s rulers are inscribed in the British Museum’s Taylor Prism. For 10 points each:
Name this empire whose ruler Sennacherib razed Babylon to the ground. Sennacherib ruled from this empire’s capital city of Nineveh.
Sennacherib’s Annals mentions his unsuccessful 701 BCE siege of this city, which was ruled by King Hezekiah. The Tanakh records that Hezekiah stripped the gold from this city’s Temple of Solomon to pay tribute to Sennacherib.
This ruler sacked Jerusalem and destroyed its Temple in 597 BCE, ushering in the Babylonian Captivity. According to Josephus, this king built the Hanging Gardens of Babylon.
Assyrian Empire
Jerusalem
Nebuchadnezzar II [prompt on partial answers]
This viking’s skald nicknamed him the “Bulgar-burner.” For 10 points each:
Name this King of Norway who died fighting for the throne of England against Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Stamford Bridge.
As a young man, Harald served with the Varangian Guard in this city as a personal bodyguard to Emperor Michael IV. This city was the capital of the Byzantine Empire.
Having amassed significant wealth from his Varangian loot, Harald stored it in this city, which was ruled by his ally Yaroslav the Wise. A polity based in this city was ruled by the Rurik dynasty.
Harald Hardrada [or Harald III; prompt on Harald]
Constantinople
Kiev [or Kievan Rus]
The failure of this campaign forced Winston Churchill to resign his position as First Lord of the Admiralty. For 10 points each:
Name this World War I campaign, in which bloody landings at ANZAC Cove forged a sense of national identity for Australians and New Zealanders. Mustafa Kemal commanded Turkish forces during this campaign.
This country memorializes the Battle of Vimy Ridge, the first time all four divisions of its WWI corps fought side-by-side. On its home front, Robert Borden dealt with a conscription crisis among Francophones in Quebec.
During World War I, this South African field marshal occupied German South West Africa and chased Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck around East Africa. This United Party prime minister’s 1948 electoral defeat ushered in the apartheid era.
Gallipoli Campaign [or the Dardanelles Campaign; or the Battle of Çanakkale]
Canada
Jan Smuts
This island was claimed by the United Indians of All Tribes under the terms of the 1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie. For 10 points each:
Name this island that was occupied by Native American protesters for several months starting in 1969. Earlier in its history, this island housed men like Whitey Bulger and Robert Stroud, who was known as its “birdman.”
Dee Brown, who participated in the occupation of Alcatraz, wrote a history of the American West titled Bury My Heart at this location. Over 300 Lakota Sioux were killed in a 1890 massacre at this South Dakota location.
This activist chronicled America’s history of broken treaties and forced Indian removals in A Century of Dishonor. Her novel Ramona is often credited with reigniting interest in California’s Spanish missions.
Alcatraz Island
Wounded Knee [or Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee]
Helen Hunt Jackson
This country’s North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade killed over 20,000 Ndebele [“en-duh-BEEL-ee”] civilians in the Gukurahundi massacres. For 10 points each:
Name this country that experienced extreme hyperinflation under a leader who was overthrown in 2017, Robert Mugabe. This country was formerly known as Rhodesia.
This man lead Rhodesia’s white minority government during the Rhodesian Bush War. He consented to hand power over to Abel Muzorewa in the Lancaster House Agreement.
In Operation Murambatsvina, or “Operation Move the Rubbish,” Mugabe ordered the Zimbabwean government to destroy these locations. These places are known as favelas in Brazil
Republic of Zimbabwe
Ian Smith
slums [or shanty towns; prompt on neighborhoods or towns]
In one speech, this man punned on the word for chaos with the line “reform yes, crap-in-bed, no.” For 10 points each:
Name this first president of the French Fifth Republic. This general became a national hero for his leadership of the Free French during World War II.
Student protests and a general workers’ strike in May of this year nearly brought down De Gaulle’s government. During the crisis of this year, de Gaulle briefly fled France to hide in Baden-Baden, Germany.
De Gaulle’s flight to Baden-Baden soured his relationship with this prime minister, who negotiated the Grenelle Agreements to try and end the crisis.
Charles de Gaulle
1968 [prompt on 68]
Georges Pompidou
. The Aborigine Bungaree accompanied this captain on his journeys as a guide and interpreter. For 10 points each:
Name this explorer who first circumnavigated Australia and identified it as a continent. His suggestion to name the continent “Australia” was formally adopted by Governor Lachlan Macquarie.
This captain of the HMS Endeavor christened Botany Bay and made the first circumnavigation of New Zealand. This explorer died in a scuffle in Hawaii after abducting King Kalaniʻōpuʻu.
Willem Janszoon, who hailed from this country, made the first documented European landfall on Australia in 1606. He named the new land for this country’s province of Zeeland, though it didn’t stick.
Matthew Flinders
James Cook
Netherlands
. For 10 points each, answer the following about South American natives:
Yanomami tribes live deep in this country’s Amazon rainforest, where they have been encroached upon by garimpeiro gold miners. Through the practice of cunhadismo, this country’s coastal Tupi people intermarried with Portuguese settlers, but largely died out due to disease.
The indigenous Guarani language is the most widely spoken language in this country. During the rule of Alfredo Stroessner, this country’s Aché people were openly massacred and enslaved.
These natives under Lautaro resisted Pedro de Valdivia in the 16th century and remained largely independent until the 19th-century occupation of Araucanía. These natives name an ongoing conflict against Chile’s government.
Brazil
Paraguay
Mapuche
. As part of a failed coup d’etat, planes bombed the Plaza de Mayo during one of this man’s rallies. For 10 points each:
Name this husband of Evita whose presidency was built on the support of working-class descamisados, or “shirtless ones.”
Peron’s death ushered in a military takeover of this South American country, whose leaders murdered dissidents in the Dirty War.
During the Dirty War, a group of these people named for the Plaza de Mayo wore white scarves to protest the abduction and murder their “disappeared” relatives.
Juan Domingo Peron
Argentina
mothers [or grandmothers; accept equivalents to “mother” like madre or mom; prompt on women or girls]
This man can be heard muttering about his desire to give his followers “a good life” in a recording known as his settlement’s “Death Tape.” For 10 points each:
Name this cult leader who moved his organization, the People’s Temple, from the United States to a compound in Guyana. He and his followers drank flavor aid laced with cyanide in a 1978 mass suicide.
Before they moved to Guyana, Jones and his followers were based in this Northern California city, where they helped elect Harvey Milk as this city’s first gay elected official.
The Jonestown massacre occurred shortly after the People’s Temple ambushed this congressman, who had inspected Jonestown a day prior. He is the only congressman to have been killed in the line of duty.
Jim Jones
San Francisco, California
Leo Ryan
Rulers of this empire favored the idea of “Grossdeutschland,” as opposed to the “kleindeutschland” favored by its rival Prussia. For 10 points each:
Name this realm that was elevated to an empire by its Habsburg archdukes after they dissolved the Holy Roman Empire. It was ruled in a dual monarchy with Hungary.
At the Congress of Vienna, this reactionary Austrian statesman formed the German Confederation to ensure Austria’s continued domination of the former Holy Roman Empire.
Under Metternich, Austria did not join this economic union, founded by Prussia in 1834, that limited tariffs on trade between German-speaking states.
Austria [or Austrian Empire; accept Austro-Hungarian Empire]
Klemens von Metternich
Zollverein
Opponents of this man’s organization sometimes depicted him as the middle, top hat-wearing head of a “many-headed monster.” For 10 points each:
Name this head of the Second Bank of the United States who deliberately raised interest rates to cause a recession in an attempt to stop Andrew Jackson from shuttering the Second Bank.
Citing the Necessary and Proper Clause, this 1819 Supreme Court case affirmed the constitutionality of the Second Bank of the United States. This case’s majority opinion states “the power to tax is the power to destroy.”
This longest-serving Chief Justice of the Supreme Court authored the majority opinion in McCulloch. His majority opinion in Marbury v. Madison established the principle of judicial review.
Nicholas Biddle
McCulloch v. Maryland
John Marshall
This general was defeated at Gergovia by a united Gallic army commanded by Vercingetorix. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman general who described his conquest of Gaul in Commentaries on the Gallic Wars. He was later stabbed to death on the Ides of March.
Caesar finally subdued Vercingetorix at this battle. At this battle, Caesar built two sets of walls, one facing inwards to attack this battle’s namesake city and an outward wall to ward off Vercingetorix’s reinforcements.
Caesar quipped “alea iacta est,” or “the die is cast,” as he marched his army over this Italian river. Caesar’s crossing of this river initiated the Great Roman Civil War.
Julius Caesar
Alesia
the Rubicon [or the Rubico]
. The Taft-Katsura memorandum acknowledged Japan’s stake in Korea and disinterest in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country that was granted independence from the United States by the Tyding-McDuffie Act in 1935. Ferdinand Marcos ruled this country from 1965 to 1986.
This leader of the Philippine Senate led a 1934 delegation to Washington, D.C. to secure independence. It’s not Manila, but the Philippines’ largest city is named for this first president of the Commonwealth of the Philippines.
This earlier leader of the Filipino independence movement led a guerilla campaign against Spain towards the end of its occupation of the Philippines. Once the Spanish left, he continued his war against the United States until he was captured by Frederick Funston.
the Philippines
Manuel Quezon [or Quezon City]
Emilio Aguinaldo
In an essay, this person argued against the 14th and 15th Amendments on the basis that it was a “serious question whether we had better stand aside and see ‘Sambo’ walk into the kingdom first.” For 10 points each:
Name this deliverer of the “Solitude of Self” speech who lost much of her influence after the publication of The Women’s Bible.
Stanton added a resolution advancing this cause to the Declaration of Sentiments at the Seneca Falls Convention. The aim of this cause was achieved with the passage of the 19th Amendment.
Stanton’s shift on Black civil rights was criticised by this man, who argued that Black men deserved the vote before White women. Earlier, this man was the only African American attendee at the Seneca Falls Conference.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton
women’s suffrage [accept women receiving the vote or equivalents; prompt on suffrage]
Frederick Douglass
Gan Ying traveled all the way to the Black Sea in a quixotic attempt to establish diplomatic relations between the Han Dynasty and this empire. For 10 points each:
Name this empire known to the Han as “Daqin.” Emperor Huan of Han received ambassadors from this empire who claimed to have been sent by Marcus Aurelius.
The Han were more successful in taking control of this modern-day country, which briefly secured independence from China during the Trung Sisters’ rebellion. This country’s last emperor, Bao Dai, ruled from the imperial city of Hue (he-WAY).
Emperor Wu of Han fought to acquire “heavenly” horses from the Dayuan of the Ferghana Valley in order to deploy them against these northern barbarians, whose incursions led to the construction of the Great Wall.
Roman Empire [or Rome]
Vietnam
Xiongnu [prompt on Huns]
A Martin Niemoller poem reflecting on this politician’s anti-religion policies begins with the lines “First they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out - because I was not a socialist.” For 10 points each:
Name this leader who brought the German Protestant church under state control in 1934. After World War II, Niemoller apologized for his previous support of this leader’s anti-Semitic policies.
Anti-Nazi theologians like Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Karl Barth formed this Christian movement after the Nazi Party officially absorbed Germany’s Protestant church. This movement’s views were expressed in the Barmen Declaration.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer’s The Cost of Discipleship is an extended analysis of this Biblical event. This New Testament event is the source of the expressions “salt of the earth” and “turn the other cheek.”
Adolf Hitler
” the Confessing Church [or Bekennende Kirche]
the Sermon on the Mount [prompt on the Beatitudes; prompt on the Gospel of Matthew]
Pro-neutrality rioters stormed the halls of this country’s Independence Party after its parliament ratified a post-World War II agreement with the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev met for a 1986 summit. In 1949, protesters attacked this country’s parliament, the Althing, after it voted to join NATO.
During the Cold War, NATO used Iceland as a base to monitor the activity of these Soviet warships, which could be used to store missiles. The “nuclear” variety of these submersible vessels is powered by a nuclear reactor.
The Althing repeatedly threatened to leave NATO during this series of informal conflicts between Iceland and the United Kingdom. This “war” ended when Britain agreed to stop harassing Icelandic fishing ships.
Iceland
Soviet nuclear submarines [or ballistic missile submarines; prompt on subs]
the Cod Wars
This man looted the relics of the Magi from the Basilica of Sant'Eustorgio and gifted them to the Archbishop of Cologne. For 10 points each:
Name this Holy Roman Emperor who called the Diet of Roncaglia after subduing Milan. This red-bearded commander drowned fording the Saleph River during the Third Crusade.
Frederick’s authority in Italy was opposed by this alliance of cities backed by Pope Alexander III. This alliance shared its name with a people once ruled by Desiderius.
The Lombard League shattered Frederick’s army at this 1176 battle, ending his dream of direct imperial rule in Italy.
Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I]
Lombard League
Battle of Legnano
. <em>Two answers required</em>. In 2002, these two countries engaged in a brief bloodless “war” over control of the Perejil [“peh-ruh-HEEL”] Island. For 10 points each:
Name these two countries that dispute control over the enclaves Ceuta and Melilla [meh-LEE-yah”].
Although Spain refuses to cede control of Ceuta [“see-OOT-ah”] and Melilla back to Morocco, it has frequently protested Britain’s ownership of this strategically important strait. It connects the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea.
Ceuta and Melilla were heavily fortified during Spain’s campaign against the rebellious Berber tribes of this mountainous Moroccan region, which lasted from 1920 to 1927.
Spain and Morocco
Strait of Gibraltar
The Rif [or the Rif War]
This ruler was assassinated by Ptolemy Keraunos after he allowed Ptolemy to take refuge in his court. For 10 points each:
Name this general who allied with Cassander and Lysimachus to defeat Antigonus the One-Eyed at the Battle of Ipsus. This member of the Diadochi bore the epithet “Nicator” and founded the city of Antioch.
Like the other members of the Diadochi, Seleucus began his career as a general under this Macedonian ruler, whose attempt to conquer the known world was cut short by his premature death at the age of 32.
Seleucus married his daughter to this Indian emperor, who supplied the elephants that Seleucus deployed at the Battle of Ipsus. This grandfather of Ashoka founded the Mauryan dynasty.
Seleucus I Nicator
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on Alexander]
Chandragupta Maurya
A William Gibson essay describes this country as “Disneyland with the Death Penalty.” For 10 points each:
Name this country that implemented mandatory capital punishment for drug offenses under its longtime ruler Lee Kuan Yew.
Like Singapore, this other Southeast Asian country uses the death penalty for most drug smuggling cases. Its capital city is Jakarta.
In 2015, Australia cut its foreign aid to Indonesia after this Indonesian president refused to pardon two Australian citizens accused of drug smuggling.
Singapore
Indonesia
Joko Widodo [or Jokowi]
Supporters of this man called themselves <em>piagnoni</em> [“PEE-yahn-yoh-nee”], or “weepers.” For 10 points each:
Name this friar who preached against luxury and corruption and orchestrated the Bonfire of the Vanities.
Savonarola preached in this Tuscan city, where he became the de facto ruler after its ruling Medici family was expelled.
This pope unsuccessfully tried to silence Savonarola with a cardinalate, then had him excommunicated. According to legend, this pope invited prostitutes to the Vatican for a debauched “Banquet of the Chestnuts.”
Girolamo Savonarola
Florence [or Firenze]
Pope Alexander VI [or Rodrigo Borgia; prompt on Borgia or Alexander alone]
This man described one of his policies as the “necessary art” of “getting to the verge without getting into the war.” For 10 points each:
Name this proponent of “brinkmanship” and “massive retaliation” who served as Secretary of State under Eisenhower. His younger brother Allen was CIA Director in the 1950s and early 1960s.
The Dulles brothers supported Operation PBSUCCESS, a CIA-led plot to overthrow this democratically elected president of Guatemala. His land reform policies antagonized the United Fruit Company, which owned the majority of Guatemala’s banana plantations.
The Dulles brothers also orchestrated a 1953 coup in this country, which strengthened Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi’s grip on this country’s throne. In 1979, an angry mob captured the US embassy in this country’s capital city of Tehran.
John Foster Dulles
Jacobo Árbenz Guzman
Iran
Soldiers chanting “Constantine and Constitution” during this event supposedly believed that “Constitution” was the name of Constantine’s wife. For 10 points each:
Name this uprising of Russian soldiers who swore loyalty to the Grand Duke Constantine, who had removed himself from succession. The Northern Society rallied officers in Senate Square in this event’s namesake month.
Constantin was the elder brother of a Tsar of this name. The second Russian tsar of this name was executed by Bolsheviks in 1918 on the orders of Vladimir Lenin.
This son of Nicholas I granted the Decembrists amnesty upon taking the throne. This tsar planned to implement Count Loris-Melikov’s reforms but was assassinated by People’s Will before he could put them into effect.
Decembrist Revolt
Nicholas [or Nicholas I; or Nicholas II]
Alexander II [prompt on partial answer]
. Arthur Anderson and Charles Dibble made the first full English translation of this 12-book work after it was rediscovered by the scholar Angelo Bandini. For 10 points each:
Name this text preserved in the Laurentian library. It was composed by the missionary Bernardino de Sahagun in conjunction with his students in Tlatelolco.
The Florentine Codex is one of the major sources on this empire’s practices, which included human sacrifices under rulers like Montezuma II.
This interpreter to the conquistador Hernán Cortés appears in many of the Florentine Codex’ illustrations. Her child by Cortés, Martín, is considered one of Mexico’s first mestizos.
Florentine Codex [prompt on partial answer]
Aztec Empire
La Malinche [or Doña Marina]
The founders of the Mayo Clinic performed their first osteology lessons on the skeleton of an executed member of this tribe. For 10 points each:
Name this Native American tribe that was subjected to the largest execution in US history after an uprising led by its chief Little Crow.
This president commuted the death sentences of many of the captured Dakota warriors. This president, who served as a militia captain during Black Hawk’s War, opened up Indian Territory to white settlers by signing the Homestead Act.
The Dakota War took place in this modern-day US state. Little Crow and his tribe resided on land that is now this state’s capital, St. Paul.
Dakota [or Sioux; do not accept or prompt on “Lakota” or “Nakota”]
Abraham Lincoln
Minnesota
This bureaucrat was the father of Germaine de Stael [“de-STALL”]. For 10 points each:
Name this minister to Louis XVI who published France’s first public budget. He attempted to reform France’s economy during the debt crisis caused by Louis’ decision to finance the American Revolution.
Summoned to discuss Necker’s proposed reforms in June 1789, the Third Estate found themselves locked out of their chambers; instead, they moved to this location, usually used for athletic events, where they swore an oath to pursue a constitution.
A month after the Tennis Court Oath, an angry crowd reacted to Necker’s firing by storming this Parisian prison.
Jacques Necker
a tennis court [or the Tennis Court Oath]
the Bastille
One of these objects was used to assassinate the author of <em>The Truth that Killed</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this object used by a KGB agent to fire a poisonous ricin pellet at Georgi Markov in London.
Markov was exiled from this communist country during the rule of dictator Todor Zhivkov. Zhivkov came to prominence as the police chief in its capital city, Sofia.
In 1984, Zhivkov forced this ethnic minority to Slavicize their surnames and later expelled them from Bulgaria. This ethnic group’s Grey Wolves attempted to assassinate Pope John Paul II in 1981.
an umbrella
Bulgaria
Turks [or Turkish]
This historian coined the term “social banditry” in his book <em>Primitive Rebels</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this British Marxist historian who discussed the Invention of Tradition in a book he co-edited with Terence Ranger. He is perhaps best known for a trilogy of works that begins with The Age of Revolution.
The Age of Revolution is the first in Hobsbawm’s trilogy about the “long” version of this century, which Hobsbawm claims began with the French Revolution. The unification of Italy occurred during this century.
Hobsbawm’s Age of Revolution begins in 1789 and ends in this year. Lajos Kossuth’s failed Hungarian Revolution took place during this year.
Eric Hobsbawm
the 19th century [or the 1800s]
1848 [prompt on 48]
In a speech given at this site, Joshua Chamberlain referred to it as “the vision-place of souls.” For 10 points each:
Name this Pennsylvania battlefield where, decades earlier, Abraham Lincoln promised that “government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.” Lincoln’s speech at this location begins with the phrase “fourscore and seven years ago.”
John Hay’s transcription of the Gettysburg Address omits this two-word phrase from the final sentence. This two-word phrase was added to the Pledge of Allegiance in 1954.
This Massachusetts politician delivered a two hour-long keynote speech before Lincoln at Gettysburg. He served as John Bell’s running mate on the Constitutional Union Party ticket in the 1860 presidential election.
Gettysburg [or the Gettysburg Address]
“under God”
Edward Everett
These military units put down the Spartacist rebellion and executed the uprising’s leaders, Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht. For 10 points each:
Name these German paramilitary groups largely composed of jobless World War I veterans. They launched the Kapp Putsch in support of Erich Ludendorff.
Friedrich Ebert, the President of this hyperinflation-ridden post-World War I German government, used the Freikorps to quell left-wing rebellions in the Ruhr and Bavaria.
Adolf Hitler and his Nazi henchmen were denounced as “Freikorps bands of rowdies” in the aftermath of this failed 1923 putsch. It is named for the large pub where Hitler and his fellow revolutionaries gathered.
Freikorps [or Free Corps]
Weimar Republic [or Weimar Germany]
Beer Hall Putsch [or Bierkeller Putsch; prompt on Munich Putsch]
<em>Description acceptable</em>. James Augustus Grant’s <em>A Walk across Africa</em> describes his journey to find this place. For 10 points each:
Name this place in Africa sought by 19th century explorers like Grant and John Hanning Speke, who discovered it in 1858. Speke named this place’s location after Queen Victoria.
Speke was traveling with this explorer, who vigorously disagreed that Lake Victoria was the source of the Nile. In another adventure, this explorer snuck into Mecca disguised as a Pashtun pilgrim.
Speke’s discovery was confirmed by this Welsh-American explorer, who circumnavigated Lake Victoria. More famously, this man discovered Dr. David Livingstone on the shores of Lake Tanganyika.
the source of the Nile [accept descriptive answers like the origin of the Nile; prompt on Lake Victoria; do not accept or prompt on Victoria Falls]
Sir Richard Francis Burton
Henry Morton Stanley
These people elected commanders called <em>hetmans</em> at gatherings called <em>radas</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these frontier horsemen who rebelled against the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth to form an independent hetmanate under Bogdan Khmelnytsky [“chmel-NIT-skee”]. One of these people named Yemelyan Pugachev led a revolt against Catherine the Great.
Khmelnytsky is a national hero in this modern-day country, where many Cossacks settled along the Don River. Some paramilitary pro-Russian Cossacks have joined the separatist insurgency in this country’s Donbass region.
The Khmelnytsky Uprising initiated this historical period, in which Russia and Sweden repeatedly invaded Poland. Its name comes from the title of a Henryk Sienkiewicz [“SHEN-kyay-veech”] novel.
Cossacks [accept Zaporozhian Cossacks or Don Cossacks]
Ukraine
the Deluge
According to legend, this mogul sent a telegram to Frederick Remington telling him “you furnish the pictures, I’ll furnish the war.” For 10 points each:
Name this rival of Joseph Pulitzer who owned the New York Journal. This man’s newspapers published damning reviews of Citizen Kane, whose title character was based on him.
Hearst’s newspapers whipped up public support for the Spanish-American War by publishing exaggerated stories of violence on this Caribbean island, where the USS Maine sunk in Havana Harbor
During the lead-up to the Spanish American War, Hearst’s newspapers published inaccurate articles about Cuba’s governor Valeriano Weyler, whom they gave this nickname. The leader of the Bowery Boys gang, William Poole, also used this nickname.
William Randolph Hearst
Cuba
butcher [or “Butcher” Weyland; or Bill the Butcher]
These people built the Willow Palisade to seal off their homeland. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group that traditionally wore their hair in a single braid known as a “queue” and introduced the qipao [“CHEE-POW”] dress to China. The various tribes of this ethnic group were first united by Nurhaci [“noor-HAWCH-ee”].
Under Nurhaci, the Manchus formed this dynasty by overthrowing the Ming dynasty. This dynasty reigned from 1644 to 1912, when it was overthrown in the Chinese Revolution.
Nurhaci organized the Manchu army by placing each household into eight groups named for these objects. The Azure Dragon and a red pearl appear in one of these objects that represented the Qing dynasty.
Manchu [or Jurchen]
Qing Dynasty
banners [or flags]
A Bernard Lazare pamphlet labels this man’s prosecution a “miscarriage of justice.” For 10 points each:
Name this French Jewish artillery captain who was scandalously imprisoned on false treason charges. The horrible treatment of this man was lambasted by Émile Zola in the article “J’Accuse!”
This future Prime Minister of France published Zola’s “J’Accuse” in his newspaper, L’Aurore. Nicknamed “The Tiger,” this politician represented France at the Treaty of Versailles.
This man covered the Dreyfus Affair as a correspondent for the Neue Freie Presse. Witnessing Dreyfus’ shabby treatment may have inspired this man to found the World Zionist Organization.
Alfred Dreyfus [or the Dreyfus affair]
Georges Clemenceau
Theodor Herzl
This king legendarily purchased the three Syllibine Books after six of the original nine were burned in a negotiation ploy. For 10 points each:
Name this last king of Rome. This despot of Etruscan descent was overthrown after his son raped Lucretia.
A noble with this name led the overthrow of Tarquin and became the new republic’s first consul with Lucretia’s husband. A later Roman figure with this family name committed suicide after losing the Battle of Philippi.
After his overthrow, Tarquin led a league of city-states from this tribe against Rome at the Battle of Lake Regillus. Romans were descended from this tribe, whose namesake language evolved into the modern family of Romance languages.
Tarquin the Proud [or Tarquinius Superbus; do not accept “Tarquinius Priscus”]
Brutus [accept Lucius Junius Brutus; or Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger]
Latins [or Latin League]
In Henry Littlefield’s political interpretation of <em>The Wizard of Oz</em>, the Yellow Brick Road represents America’s overreliance on this metal. For 10 points each:
Name this metal whose “standard” dictated the 19th-century money supply. William Jennings Bryan, who gave a speech titled for a “cross of” this metal, sought to supplement it with “free silver.”
Members of this faction defected from the Democratic Party in 1896 out of opposition to Bryan’s bimetallist ideas. Grover Cleveland was a member of this faction, which supported low tariffs and the gold standard.
The Bourbon Democrats opposed an 1890 Silver Purchase Act sponsored by a senator with this surname who also wrote a namesake Antitrust Act. Another man with this surname stated “if nominated, I will not accept; if elected, I will not serve” when asked to run for president.
gold [or Au]
Bourbon Democrats
Sherman [accept John Sherman or William Tecumseh Sherman]
Lucius Sextius was the first member of this class to hold the consulship. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the common people of Rome, who, despite being citizens, did not gain significant rights until the Conflict of the Orders. They often clashed with Rome’s upper-class patricians.
During the Conflict of the Orders, the plebs would often employ this strategy of abandoning their jobs and shutting down Roman commerce. The plebs left Rome for Mons Sacer during one of these events in 494 BCE.
This office, which represented the plebs in the Roman Senate, was created after the 494 Secession of the Plebs. It isn’t legatus or prefectus, but this office shares its name with the Roman military position of officers ranked above centurions.
plebs [or plebeians]
Secession of the Plebs [or Secessio Plebis]
Tribune of the Plebs [or tribunus]
According to legend, one of this country’s nobles established a training school for explorers in this country’s city of Sagres. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose Prince Henry the Navigator commissioned many maritime expeditions. This country came to dominate the Indian Ocean through the exploits of its admiral Afonso de Albuquerque.
In 1511, Albuquerque captured this city in present-day Malaysia from Sultan Mahmud Shah. The Portuguese used their control of this city’s namesake strait to dominate the global spice trade.
Before capturing Malacca for Portugal, Albuquerque led a successful 1510 siege of this city. This city was forcibly annexed by a different country in 1961’s Operation Vijay.
Portugal
Malacca [or Melaka; accept Strait of Malacca]
Goa
The anniversary of this person’s death is celebrated as Youth Day in his home country of South Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this schoolboy, the subject of an iconic 1976 Sam Nzima photo showing him being carried to safety after having been mortally wounded by police.
Pieterson was killed during this event, a series of protests by black children against the use of Afrikaans in schools.
Soweto and other apartheid-era atrocities were investigated by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission set up in the 1990s by this first black president of South Africa.
Hector Pieterson
Soweto uprising [accept equivalents for “uprising”]
Nelson (Rolihlahla) Mandela &lt;TR, World History&gt;
Jack Weatherford’s 2010 book about the <em>Secret History</em> of women of this ethnicity described their influence on various ruling states. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group, one of whom named Börte was rescued by her husband after being kidnapped by Merkits.
Börte was the wife of this leader who unified the Mongols.
Many Mongol queens, including Kublai Khan’s mother Sorghaghtani Beki, belonged to this branch of Christianity popular in Asia.
Mongols [or Mongolians]
Genghis Khan [or Chinggis Khan, or Temujin; prompt on Khan]
Nestorian Church [accept Church of the East; do not accept “Eastern Orthodox”] &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This woman wrote the text of the Manifesto of the 343, named after the number of women who signed it claiming to have undergone an illegal abortion. For 10 points each:
Name this philosopher, the longtime lover of Jean-Paul Sartre who wrote the feminist text The Second Sex.
The law legalizing abortion in France is named for this Minister of Health, a Holocaust survivor who also served as the first President of the European Parliament.
The French feminist movement was catalyzed by the general strikes and student protests in May of this year, during which President Charles de Gaulle was briefly forced to flee the country.
Simone de Beauvoir
Simone Veil (“vay”)
1968 [prompt on ’68] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
The 1978 murder of Altab Ali by racist teenagers led to protests by immigrants originally from this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country, many of whose immigrants to the UK live in the Brick Lane neighborhood of London and originate from this country’s Sylhet region.
This politician gave the racist 1968 “Rivers of Blood” speech in opposition to mass immigration to the UK.
The many restaurants opened by Bengali immigrants have led to this common type of food being called Britain’s national dish.
Bangladesh
Enoch Powell [or John Enoch Powell]
curry [accept specific varieties such as chicken tikka masala] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
A financial catastrophe in this year began after the collapse of Thailand’s baht currency caused its near-bankruptcy. For 10 points each:
Name this year during which most of the countries in Southeast Asia as well as South Korea experienced a major financial panic.
As a consequence of the 1997 financial crisis, this longtime dictator of Indonesia was forced to step down following his devaluation of the rupiah. This leader had earlier ordered the occupation of East Timor.
Proving that some things never change, this country’s prime minister Mahathir Mohamad blamed investor George Soros for crashing its economy. Singapore split from this country, which controls most of the northwestern part of Borneo.
1997 [prompt on ’97]
Suharto [or Soeharto]
Malaysia &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This man organized Sweden into a system of counties that is still largely used today. For 10 points each:
Name this chancellor of Sweden who worked with Gustavus Adolphus and served as regent for Queen Christina.
Christina became Queen Regnant after Gustavus Adolphus was killed at this battle of the Thirty Years’ War.
Oxenstierna allied Sweden with France, which was then led by this Cardinal who served as Louis XIII’s chief minister.
Axel Oxenstierna (“ook-sen-SHWANN-ah”), Count of Södermöre [accept either underlined answer]
Battle of Lützen
Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand Jean du Plessis] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
This ruler reduced the influence of his court Mandarins by supporting foreign administrators such as the Greek Constantine Phaulkon. For 10 points each:
Name this Siamese king whose close ties to the French led to a 1688 rebellion against his rule, which resulted in Siam’s isolation from the West.
Narai ruled this kingdom, whose name is derived from the home city of Rama.
In 1686, an embassy from Narai travelled to the court of King Louis XIV at this palace in a suburb of Paris.
Narai [or Ramathibodi III or Ramathibodi Si Sanphet]
Ayutthaya [or Ayodhya]
Palace of Versailles &lt;TR, World History&gt;
A famous image of this man is surrounded by text on all four borders, including such phrases as “Born to command” and “Had I been consulted.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who, in a cartoon by an unknown artist, is shown holding a scepter and stepping on a piece of paper marked “Internal Improvements.”
The King Andrew cartoon criticizes Jackson’s abuse of the presidential veto, which he used to block the construction of the Maysville Road in this state, the home of the creator of the “American System.”
Cartoonists often punned on Jackson’s last name by depicting him as one of these animals. Jackson’s Democrats co-opted the image, and this animal is still used to represent the Democratic Party to this day.
Andrew Jackson [accept King Andrew the First]
Commonwealth of Kentucky
donkey [or jackass] &lt;DM, American History&gt;
August von Haxthausen’s writings about rural Russian society described the existence of these institutions, which were previously largely unknown to the aristocracy. For 10 points each:
Give the Russian term for collectively-owned peasant communes that redistributed farmland to their residents.
Haxthausen’s writings influenced the 1861 abolition of serfdom by this tsar, who was later assassinated by the People’s Will.
The 1882 preface of this work’s Russian version discussed whether the obshchina could pass directly into common ownership. This work inspired a political movement followed by leaders such as Mao and Stalin.
obshchina [or mir]
Alexander II [prompt on Alexander]
The Communist Manifesto [or Manifesto of the Communist Party; accept communism] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
This man’s forces sacked the city of Guanajuato, but he was later captured and gave a speech titled “To All the World” before his execution. For 10 points each:
Name this priest whose Grito de Dolores is considered the beginning of the struggle for Mexican independence.
Hidalgo and his successor José María Morelos fought for Mexican independence from this country.
This Afro-Mestizo second president of Mexico abolished slavery and attempted to make liberal reforms during his short time in power. He was overthrown in a right-wing coup and executed in 1831.
Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla
Spain [or España]
Vicente (Ramón) Guerrero Saldaña &lt;TR, World History&gt;
Like his father, this politician served as Keeper of the Great Seal of England and he was aided by his patron the Earl of Essex. For 10 points each:
Name this man who served as Lord Chancellor of England until his enemy Edward Coke brought him down in 1621 through corruption charges.
Bacon’s first political work was addressed to this English queen who reigned for most of the second half of the 16th century.
Bacon’s uncle was this chief advisor to Elizabeth, who is frequently regarded as a model for Polonius in Hamlet and whose distant descendant the Marquess of Salisbury served as prime minister three times in the late 19th and early 20th century.
Francis Bacon, 1st Viscount St Alban [accept either underlined answer]
Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth]
William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley [accept either underlined answer; accept Lord Burghley] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
Answer the following about the phrase “history of the present,” for 10 points each.
This thinker coined the term “history of the present” to describe an examination of present-day conditions using a historical lens. He is better known for writing a History of Sexuality and Discipline and Punish.
Books covering these events often take the form of “histories of the present,” such as Timothy Crouse’s 1972 book Boys on the Bus, or Theodore H. White’s six accounts of these events.
Timothy Garton Ash, who titled his essay collection about the 1990s in Europe History of the Present, also wrote The Magic Lantern, which tracked the overthrow of four Communist governments in this year.
Michel Foucault
presidential campaigns [prompt on elections or presidential elections]
1989 &lt;RR, Other Academic&gt;
During the first of these conflicts, Stephen Decatur led a raid to burn down his own ship, the <em>USS Philadelphia</em>, after it ran aground during a blockade. For 10 points each:
Name this set of wars, usually named for a group of tribute-demanding pirates active on the north coast of Africa in the early 19th century.
This European power was the primary American ally during the First Barbary War, assisting them in the blockade of Tripoli. By the end of the century, nearly a third of its population had emigrated to the US.
Earlier, Sweden became one of the first nations to perform this action, doing so through a treaty negotiated with Benjamin Franklin. Under Mohammed III, Morocco became the first nation to perform this action.
Barbary Wars
Kingdom of Sweden
recognizing the United States as an independent nation [accept equivalents] &lt;DM, American History&gt;
This man had the Upanishads translated into Persian and posited a link between them and the Quran in an attempt to unify the religions of the Indian subcontinent. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was defeated at the Battle of Samugarh (“SUM-oo-gurr”) by his younger brother Aurangzeb and never became the Mughal Emperor.
Dara Shikoh was the oldest son of this Mughal Emperor who was overthrown by Aurangzeb. He constructed the Taj Mahal for his wife Mumtaz.
Shah Jahan ordered the construction of the Jama Masjid and Red Fort in this city, whose “New” part is the capital of modern India.
Dara Shikoh [prompt on partial answer]
Shah Jahan [or Mirza Shahab-ud-din Baig Muhammad Khan Khurram]
Delhi [accept New Delhi] &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This group was originally set up to campaign for land rights that had been taken away by the government of William McMahon (“muck-MAHN”). For 10 points each:
Name this unofficial group that has been protesting outside Old Parliament House in Canberra since 1972.
The Australian History Wars focus on the characterization of European settlers’ treatment of Australian Aboriginals, including this term for Aboriginal children who were taken from their families.
In 2017, Australian Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders held a convention at this rock formation in central Australia that is sacred to local tribes.
Aboriginal tent embassy
stolen generations [or stolen children]
Uluru [or Ayers Rock] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
This concept was used to distinguish the country it applied to from other colonial empires by claiming that the territories it controlled were part of one nation. For 10 points each:
Name this doctrine held by leaders such as António Salazar to justify his country’s choosing to hold its colonies long after most other European countries.
Salazar led this European country’s Estado Novo (“ee-STAH-doo NOH-voo”), a period of corporatist authoritarian government.
One of Portugal’s largest colonies was this southern African country whose independence was fought for by Samora Machel’s FRELIMO party.
pluricontinentalism
Portugal
Mozambique &lt;TR, European History&gt;
Answer some questions about recent news regarding airlines and international relations, for 10 points each.
China recently demanded that over 40 international airlines, including United and Delta, change their websites to reflect that this island is part of China.
Violent protests over fuel prices in July 2018 resulted in several US airlines cancelling their flights to this country and convinced Prime Minister Jack Guy Lafontant to resign.
This country’s refusal to convert billions of dollars’ worth of its national currency to foreign currency led the IATA to withdraw from it in January 2018. Many US airlines have stopped serving this country’s Maiquetía International Airport due to safety concerns.
Taiwan [accept Republic of China]
Haiti
Venezuela &lt;KH, Current Events&gt;
Theories of this process have changed in part due to discoveries on Cedros Island in Mexico that support the idea that this process occurred by boat rather than on foot. For 10 points each:
Describe this process that may have occurred in multiple waves. Its timeline has been challenged by discoveries of sites predating the Clovis culture.
The traditional theory of migration to the Americas involves early humans walking across a land bridge from Siberia to this modern US state.
Currently, the oldest known archaeological site in the Americas is this one in southern Chile. It may predate Clovis by millennia and serve as evidence for the coastal migration model.
human settlement of the Americas [accept descriptive answers, such as migration to the Americas or population of the Americas; accept New World in place of “Americas”; do not accept answers involving “Europe” or “Europeans”; do not accept answers involving “walking across a land bridge” or similar]
Alaska
Monte Verde &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
This was the only woman who was not part of a Presidential family to appear on a First Spouse gold coin. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the National Women’s Party who organized the Silent Sentinels to picket the White House for more than two years.
With Crystal Eastman, Paul wrote the first version of this document, which has been ratified by 37 states as of March 2018. Phyllis Schlafly gained prominence for her campaign criticizing this proposed amendment.
In solidarity with prisoners at the Occoquan Workhouse, Paul performed one of these actions while imprisoned in DC. Across the pond, women conducting this action were subject to the Cat and Mouse Act.
Alice Paul
Equal Rights Amendment [or ERA]
hunger strike [accept equivalents that indicate not eating as a form of protest] &lt;DM, American History&gt;
While conquering the powerful kingdom of Shewa, this ruler imprisoned the future emperor Menelik II. For 10 points each:
Name this Emperor of Ethiopia who ended the Era of the Princes and later committed suicide after being defeated by an Anglo-Indian expedition led by Robert Napier.
Yohannes IV, the successor of Tewodros, lost a war to this nearby power, which was then ruled by the reformist Khedive (“keh-DEEV”) Ismail Pasha.
The British ambassador to Tewodros was Hormuzd Rassam, an Assyrian archaeologist who discovered the clay tablets containing this work about a king of Uruk, the oldest known piece of literature.
Tewodros II [or Kassa Hailegiorgis; accept Theodore II; prompt on Tewodros or Theodore]
Egypt
The Epic of Gilgamesh &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This woman was originally an ally of Cardinal Granvelle, who was later recalled from his post due to his extreme unpopularity among Protestants. For 10 points each:
Name this Governor of the Netherlands, an illegitimate daughter of Charles V.
Margaret was the half-sister of Philip II, the king of this country that sent a namesake Armada in a failed attempt to conquer England.
Granvelle became unpopular due to his support of this institution that sought to enforce religious orthodoxy in the Netherlands.
Margaret of Parma
Spain
inquisition [or Spanish Inquisition] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
This doctrine was diminished in the United States when most states passed Married Womens’ Property Acts over the course of several decades beginning in 1839. For 10 points each:
Name this doctrine from British common law which held that upon marriage, a woman’s legal rights were granted to her husband.
In 1850, this country became the first in the world to give equal inheritance rights to men and women. This island country also had the first democratically elected female president in the world from 1980 to 1996.
In 2005, this country amended its 1956 Hindu Succession Act to give all women rights to ancestral property, including those practicing minority religions such as Jainism and Sikhism.
coverture [or couverture]
Iceland
India [or Bharat Ganarajya] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
Black activists Fred Hampton and Mark Clark were murdered in a police raid, allegedly as a part of this program. For 10 points each:
Name this FBI program of often illegal covert operations. In another operation under this program, a letter was sent to Martin Luther King encouraging him to kill himself to avoid the leaking of his extramarital affairs.
Another leftist group targeted by COINTELPRO was the Young Lords, whose members were of this ethnicity. Two men of this ethnicity had earlier attempted to assassinate Harry Truman in 1950.
The man in charge of COINTELPRO operations was W. Mark Felt, who in 2005 was revealed to be the man who used this pseudonym, taken from a popular 1972 film, to leak information about the Watergate scandal.
COINTELPRO [or Counter Intelligence Program]
Puerto Rican [prompt on Latino, Latina, or Hispanic]
Deep Throat &lt;DM, American History&gt;
One king with this name was known as “the Martyr” due to his murder at the age of 16, possibly by his stepmother. For 10 points each:
Give this name shared by two Anglo-Saxon kings of England, the last of whom was married to the daughter of the powerful Earl Godwin and was called “the Confessor.”
Edward the Confessor was the son of Aethelred the Unready and this woman, who also gave birth to Harthacnut (“HARTH-uh-kuh-nute”) during her second marriage to Cnut the Great. Around 1041 she commissioned an Encomium detailing her life.
Edward began the construction of this Abbey near London, which has been the traditional English coronation site since 1066.
Edward [or Edward the Martyr; or Edward the Confessor]
Emma of Normandy
Westminster Abbey &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
This man attempted to improve his country’s infrastructure by proposing regulation of the Danube and supporting construction of the Chain Bridge between Buda and Pest, which now bears his name. For 10 points each:
Name this Hungarian reformer, an opponent of Lajos Kossuth (“LYE-ohsh KOH-shoot”) who wanted to work within the structure of the Hapsburg Empire.
Széchenyi was a member of Lajos Batthyány’s (“LYE-ohsh BOTCH-yawn-yee’s”) government formed in this year during which the Hungarian Revolution and many other revolutions across Europe broke out.
The Hungarian Revolution was partially put down by Josip Jelačić (“YO-seep YAY-la-cheech”), a military leader of this ethnicity. Nationalists of this ethnicity formed the Ustaše (“OO-stah-sheh”) during World War II.
István Széchenyi (“EESHT-vahn SAY-chain-yee”) [or Count István Széchenyi de Sárvár-Felsővidék]
1848 [prompt on ’48]
Croatian [prompt on Slavic] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
This work criticized “leading comrades” who have “imposed a white terror” and “deflated the morale of the proletariat.” For 10 points each:
Name this document that Mao Zedong wrote and called “My Big-Character Poster.” It criticized leaders such as Liu Shaoqi (“lyoh shao-chee”) and Deng Xiaoping (“dung shao-ping”) for straying from communist ideals.
In 1966, Mao launched this movement to remove capitalist influence in China through the formation of Red Guards who committed violence across the countryside.
This group within the Communist Party included Mao’s wife Jiang Qing (“jyong ching”). Deng later blamed this group for the excesses of the Cultural Revolution.
“Bombard the Headquarters – My Big-Character Poster” [or Pào dǎ sīlìng bù – wǒ de yī zhāng dàzì bào]
Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution
Gang of Four &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This ruler was murdered on the orders of Italian general Giorgio Basta, although the two previously worked together against the Ottomans during the Long War. For 10 points each:
Name this prince who led Wallachia away from Ottoman influence. He is considered a national hero for being the first to rule over Wallachia, Transylvania, and Moldavia at once.
Wallachia, Moldavia, and Transylvania make up what is now this country in Eastern Europe. During the Soviet era, it was ruled by Nicolae Ceaușescu (“chow-SHESS-koo”).
Alexander Ypsilantis, who led this country to independence, also instigated anti-Ottoman sentiment in Wallachia. Leopold I of Belgium refused this country’s crown, which was later accepted by Otto, a Bavarian prince.
Michael the Brave [or Mihai Viteazu; prompt on Michael or Mihai]
Romania
Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Hellas] &lt;KS, European History&gt;
Answer the following about the California mission system, for 10 points each.
The mission system was founded by priests of this Christian denomination, which was the most common among Spanish settlers of the Americas.
This Spanish priest led Franciscan rule of the mission system in California and personally founded nine missions, including San Carlos Borromeo. Recent controversies over his legacy have focused on his disregard for the mission system’s brutality towards Native Americans.
This mission’s Serra Chapel is the last one remaining where Serra practiced Mass. Each year, on March 19th, this mission celebrates the migratory return of swallows that nest in its walls.
Roman Catholicism [or the Roman Catholic Church]
Junipero Serra
Mission San Juan Capistrano &lt;RR, American History&gt;
Medieval students of canon law at this university include Thomas Becket and Rodrigo Borgia. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian institution, the oldest continuously-active university in the world.
One of the University of Bologna’s most notable alumni is this Polish polymath who studied law and astronomy there before publishing his heliocentric theory just before his death.
Another student at Bologna was this doctor and occultist who publicly burned the works of Galen and Aristotle and is sometimes called the “father of toxicology” for his rejection of the theory of humors.
University of Bologna [or Università di Bologna; or UNIBO]
Nicolaus Copernicus [or Mikołaj Kopernik]
Paracelsus [or Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
This writer criticized the American education system in <em>The House of Intellect</em> and worked with Lionel Trilling to design his university’s Great Books curriculum. For 10 points each:
Name this French-American historian who summarized the last 500 years of Western history in his book From Dawn to Decadence.
Barzun studied and taught at this New York university whose other 20th-century historians include Eric Foner, the author of Reconstruction: America’s Unfinished Revolution. This university administers the Pulitzer Prize.
Foner won the Pulitzer Prize for History for The Fiery Trial, a history of this conflict. Other books about this conflict include James McPherson’s Battle Cry of Freedom and Doris Kearns Goodwin’s Team of Rivals.
Jacques Barzun
Columbia University
American Civil War &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
This man lost a controversial 1990 election to Fernando Collor de Melo and this leader of the Workers’ Party was eventually elected president on his fourth attempt. For 10 points each:
Name this former world leader who was succeeded by Dilma Rousseff in 2011. In 2018, he was arrested on corruption charges and later dropped out of his country’s October presidential elections.
Lula served as president of this South American country which has recently been rocked by corruption scandals related to Operation Car Wash.
Lula’s social reforms included this program which sends cash transfers to poor families conditioned on their children’s school attendance.
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil]
Bolsa Família [or Family Allowance] &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This man wrote a 1919 exposé of American newspapers titled <em>The Brass Check</em> that took William Randolph Hearst’s papers to task for circulating “yellow journalism.” For 10 points each:
Name this man whose failed campaign for a 1934 gubernatorial nomination at the head of the movement End Poverty in California, or EPIC, was chronicled in his book I, Candidate for Governor: And How I Got Licked.
Sinclair said that he “aimed at the public’s heart and by accident I hit it in the stomach” after his publication of this book about terrible work and health conditions in Chicago meat processing plants.
Sinclair’s book The Flivver King describes the rise of this American industrialist, including his decision to implement five-dollar daily wages and to create a Sociological Department that offered financial aid to his employees.
Upton Sinclair [or Upton Beall Sinclair Jr.]
The Jungle
Henry Ford &lt;AH, American History&gt;
Members of this profession organized gatherings at Clayborn Temple in response to the deaths of Echol Cole and Robert Walker in an industrial accident. For 10 points each:
Identify this profession. Members of this profession carried signs that read “I AM A MAN” during a strike that sought to negotiate better conditions from mayor Henry Loeb.
Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated on his visit to this city for the 1968 strike of its primarily African-American sanitation workers.
King called for the boycott of several local businesses in this final speech that he addressed to the striking sanitation workers. In this speech, King declared that “we, as a people, will get to the Promised Land.”
sanitation workers [accept equivalents of garbagemen or trash collectors]
Memphis, Tennessee
“I’ve Been to the Mountaintop” &lt;KS, American History&gt;
French soldier Roger Trinquier (“ro-ZHAY trank-YAY”) wrote the guide <em>Modern Warfare</em> after working as a counter-insurgency specialist in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city where Trinquier worked under Jacques Massu to put down the revolutionary FLN. A battle in this city was depicted in a Gillo Pontecorvo film.
French soldiers focused on policing this densely packed neighborhood of Algiers, the base of most FLN fighters.
Trinquier and Massu remain controversial for their use of this tactic for gathering intelligence. More recently, forms of this tactic such as waterboarding have been used by the US at Guantánamo Bay.
Algiers
the Casbah
torture [accept word forms] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
A group of Neo-Nazis and Klansmen including the founder of Stormfront attempted to overthrow this leader in Operation Red Dog but were arrested in New Orleans before they could even set sail. For 10 points each:
Name this longtime prime minister of Dominica nicknamed the “Iron Lady of the Caribbean.”
Charles supported Ronald Reagan’s invasion of this Caribbean country, where the Marxist Maurice Bishop took power after a coup against Eric Gairy.
The invasion of Grenada was opposed by Michael Manley, a two-time prime minister of this island nation. This country’s most famous singer Bob Marley played at a free concert organized by Manley meant to ease political tensions.
Eugenia Charles [or Mary Eugenia Charles]
Grenada
Jamaica &lt;TR, World History&gt;
After publishing his book <em>The Fur Trade in Canada</em>, Harold Innis discussed how this other resource fit into his “staples thesis” of Canadian development. For 10 points each:
Name this resource whose shortage in the Grand Banks was discussed in the book The End of the Line. A series of conflicts over this resource led to the establishment of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone for most countries.
The 1990s collapse of the North Atlantic cod fishery led to a severe economic downturn on this Canadian island, which makes up a province with mainland Labrador.
Harold Innis’s book The Cod Fisheries opens by recounting how this explorer marveled at Newfoundland’s cod supply. His son Sebastian was one of many explorers who sought the Northwest Passage.
cod [or Gadus; prompt on fish]
Newfoundland
John Cabot [or Giovanni Caboto] &lt;KS, Other History&gt;
Loujain al-Hathloul has been jailed several times for performing this action, once when she attempted to cross the border into the UAE. For 10 points each:
Name this action that Saudi women were finally allowed to perform in June 2018.
This crown prince of Saudi Arabia has attempted to modernize the country through the Vision 2030 project, which has been hampered slightly by the ongoing war in Yemen and the mass arrests of Saudi royals in 2017.
In a bizarre incident, this Lebanese prime minister announced his resignation while in Saudi Arabia, then rescinded it once he was back in Lebanon. His father’s 2005 assassination sparked the Cedar Revolution.
drive [accept word forms; accept answers involving operating cars or motor vehicles]
Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud [or MbS; prompt on partial answer; do not accept “Salman”]
Saad Hariri &lt;KH, Current Events&gt;
As a politician, this man led the conservative faction at court and opposed the reforms of Chancellor Wang Anshi (“WONG on-shurr”). For 10 points each:
Name this Song dynasty historian whose Zizhi Tongjian (“DZUH-jurr TOHNG-j’yen”) details Chinese history up to that point.
Sima Guang is not to be confused with the earlier historian Sima Qian (“suh-mah ch’yen”), who wrote the Records of the Grand Historian under the rule of this dynasty that succeeded the Qin (“chin”).
Sima Qian described the Shang dynasty, which was long viewed as mythical until the discovery of these objects that were used in divination and whose inscriptions provided details about Shang culture.
Sima Guang (“suh-mah gwong”) [prompt on Sima; do not accept “Sima Qian”]
Han dynasty
oracle bones [or jiǎgǔ; prompt on bones] &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This policy was advocated by speculators such as George Washington and Robert Morris because the centralization it entailed made it more likely that they would be repaid. For 10 points each:
Identify this financial policy that was central to the Compromise of 1790, in which Thomas Jefferson’s faction accepted this policy in exchange for a permanent national capital on the Potomac River.
Debt assumption was a central proposal in the First Report on the Public Credit, a document written by this first Treasury Secretary, who also advanced creditor-friendly policies in his Report on Manufactures.
To pay the interest on the assumed debt, Hamilton successfully lobbied for an excise tax on this product, and then personally led federal troops to put down a group of farmers led by Herman Husband who opposed the tax.
debt assumption [accept any answer mentioning the assumption of the state debts incurred financing the Revolutionary War or any descriptive answer indicating that the federal government would pay or assume or take over state debts]
Alexander Hamilton
whiskey [or distilled spirits; accept Whiskey Rebellion or Whiskey Insurrection] &lt;AH, American History&gt;
During this year, pilgrims were told that they would be absolved of sin if they visited St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s Basilicas in Rome. For 10 points each:
Name this year during which Pope Boniface VIII declared the first Christian Jubilee, which he originally planned for the Church to repeat every 100 years.
This Florentine writer wrote the treatise De Monarchia to oppose Boniface VIII’s declaration of Papal Supremacy in the bull Unam Sanctam. This poet marked Boniface as destined for hell in his best known work.
Dante was a member of the Guelph faction, which descended from the Lombard League formed to oppose this Holy Roman Emperor’s 12th-century invasion of Italy.
1300
Dante Alighieri [accept either underlined answer]
Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I; prompt on partial answer] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
The Chilcot Report alleged that a report sent to this prime minister based its description of Saddam Hussein’s chemical weapons on the Nicolas Cage film <em>The Rock</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this British prime minister, a key ally of George W. Bush in starting the Iraq War.
Upon election in 1997, Blair’s government was described using this two-word phrase which indicated a turn away from his party’s previous socialist policies.
One of Blair’s signature accomplishments was negotiating this 1998 agreement that ended the Troubles in Northern Ireland.
Tony Blair [or Anthony Charles Lynton Blair]
New Labour [accept Third Way]
Good Friday Agreement [or Belfast Agreement] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
Historian Oliver Schmitt drew ire for his claims about the nationality of this person’s mother Voisava, who was described in a 1500s biography as the “daughter of a Triballian nobleman.” For 10 points each:
Name this historical figure who was exalted by nationalist poet Naim Frashëri and popularized through a biography by Marin Barleti. He belonged to the House of Kastrioti, whose coat of arms depicted a double-headed eagle against a red background.
Skanderbeg was hailed as a hero within this ethnic group for waging a 25-year campaign against the Ottoman Empire. A later king of this ethnic group, Zog, briefly took the name Skanderbeg III.
This country, whose historians have frequently claimed Skanderbeg as their own, disputes the sovereignty of the majority-Albanian country of Kosovo. This country is the largest remnant of Yugoslavia.
Skanderbeg [or Iskender Bey; or George Castriot; or Gjergj Kastrioti]
Albanians [or Shqiptarët]
Republic of Serbia [or Republika Srbija] &lt;KS, European History&gt;
This woman founded an organization dedicated to planting trees and training women to support economic conservation. For 10 points each:
Name this ecofeminist activist who won the 2004 Nobel Peace Prize for founding the Green Belt Movement in her native Kenya.
In 1989, Maathai led a successful protest against the plans of this second president of Kenya to build a skyscraper in Nairobi’s Uhuru Park.
One of the largest environmental problems in Africa today is the shrinking of the Sahel region as this large desert continues to expand south.
Wangari Maathai
Daniel arap Moi
Sahara Desert &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This emperor reformed Rome’s coinage system and increased the influence of Sol Invictus in the Roman pantheon. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman emperor who conquered both the Palmyrene Empire under Zenobia and the Gallic Empire during his five-year reign.
Aurelian ruled during the so-called “crisis” of this century, during which Rome went through a series of short-lived emperors before the reign of Diocletian.
Aurelian also names a set of these structures built to protect Rome. The tall structures of these type that protected Constantinople were named after Theodosius II and were targeted by Ottoman cannons during the conquest of that city.
Aurelian [or Lucius Domitius Aurelianus Augustus]
3rd century [or 200s AD; accept Crisis of the 3rd century]
walls [accept Aurelian Walls or Theodosian Walls] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
This man won his highest political office despite being dubbed the “gropenfuhrer” for allegedly groping women and supposedly praising Adolf Hitler during the shooting of the documentary <em>Pumping Iron</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who defeated Cruz Bustamante in a 2003 gubernatorial election.
Schwarzenegger won a recall election to replace Gray Davis as governor of this state, a position previously held by movie star Ronald Reagan.
In between Reagan and Schwarzenegger’s times in office, this celebrity became a Republican congressman from California. A 1998 law extending the length of copyright protection was named in his honor after he died in a skiing accident.
Arnold Schwarzenegger [or Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger]
California
Sonny Bono [or Salvatore Phillip Bono] &lt;AH, American History&gt;
A 2017 leptospirosis outbreak was attributed to this event, which also led to a shortage of IV bags in hospitals. For 10 points each:
Name this event that led to the temporary waiving of the Jones Act to allow international ships to assist with recovery. Carmen Yulín Cruz often criticized the US government’s response to this event.
Carmen Yulín Cruz is the mayor of this island territory’s capital, San Juan. In a series of September 2018 tweets, Donald Trump claimed that “3,000 people did not die” on this island during Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
The contract to repair Puerto Rico’s power grid was awarded to a 300-employee contingent from a small company named after this Montana city. This city is the hometown of Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke (“zinky”).
Hurricane Maria [prompt on the Puerto Rican hurricane]
Puerto Rico
Whitefish, Montana &lt;KH, Current Events&gt;
In ancient China, strict gender restrictions were exemplified by the claim that “men plow” while women perform this task. For 10 points each:
Name this task generally performed within the home. In Chinese legend, a girl who does this task is separated from her cowherd lover by the Milky Way.
Most weaving in ancient China used this material, which was sold to Europe over a namesake “Road” through central Asia.
Prior to the increased patriarchy under the Zhou (“joe”) dynasty, this wife of King Wu Ding of Shang (“shong”) led her kingdom’s military in battles against neighboring tribes. This woman’s tomb was discovered in 1976 and is the only Shang royal tomb found intact.
weaving [accept word forms]
silk
Fu Hao [or Lady Hao; or Mu Xin] &lt;TR, World History&gt;
Gary Sick’s book <em>October Surprise</em> advances the theory that Bill Casey negotiated a secret agreement in advance of the presidential election held in this year. For 10 points each:
Name this election year in which the Republican candidate allegedly struck a secret deal with a foreign government that resulted in the release of 52 Americans on inauguration day of the following year, ending a 444-day crisis.
Documents in the “X-envelope” confirmed an earlier secret deal in the lead-up to the 1968 election, when this Republican candidate secretly negotiated with the North Vietnamese government to stall peace talks, helping him defeat Hubert Humphrey.
The Nixon campaign’s back-channel to North Vietnam was Anna, the Chinese-American wife of this American aviator who led the “Flying Tigers” air force in China during World War II.
1980 presidential election [prompt on ’80]
Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon]
Claire Chennault [or Claire Lee Chennault] &lt;AH, American History&gt;
Prince-Bishop Albert of Riga founded the Sword Brothers, a crusading order also named for this region. For 10 points each:
Name this region in the Baltics whose namesake crusade was declared by Pope Innocent III. It was the last part of Europe to be Christianized.
After losing the Battle of Saule, the Sword Brothers joined this other military order whose name is a synonym for German.
The Teutonic Knights also launched a crusade against pagans in this region, which much later would become the most powerful state in Germany under the leadership of men such as Otto von Bismarck.
Livonia [accept Livonian Crusade; accept Livonian Brothers of the Sword]
Teutonic Knights [or Teutonic Order; accept Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem]
Prussia [accept Prussian Crusade] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
After Alexander the Great died, this man argued in favor of waiting for Roxana to give birth to Alexander’s child and was himself named Regent in the meantime. For 10 points each:
Name this general who attempted to consolidate Alexander’s empire but was assassinated by his subordinates after a series of missteps including a failed invasion of Egypt.
After betraying Perdiccas, Seleucus Nicator was a victor in this major battle fought between multiple Diadochi which ended with the death of Antigonus I.
Another winner at Ipsus was Cassander, who married Alexander’s half-sister and became king of this region, Alexander’s homeland, located north of Greece.
Perdiccas
Battle of Ipsus
Macedonia &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
An artifact originating from an event involving this company was found on the shores of Réunion over a year after it occurred. For 10 points each:
Name this company, the subject of a safety investigation report released in July 2018 that led to the resignation of Azharuddin Abdul Rahman and detailed the mystery behind the presumed deaths of 239 people.
When it went missing, Malaysia Airlines 370 was carrying 5,408 pounds of these items, which are usually banned in airport cabins.
Malaysian Airlines experienced another tragedy when MH17 was shot down by pro-Russian separatists over the Donetsk Oblast in this war-torn region of eastern Ukraine.
Malaysia Airlines Berhad [accept MH370 or Malaysia Airlines Flight 370]
lithium-ion batteries [prompt on batteries or lithium batteries]
Donbass &lt;KH, Current Events&gt;
Under William Colby, this organization compiled reports of its misdeeds known as the “Family Jewels,” most of which were released in 2007. For 10 points each:
Name this American spy organization that journalist Seymour Hersh revealed to have been operating on domestic soil during the 1950s through 1970s, in violation of its charter.
In the 1970s, the CIA’s misdeeds were investigated by a committee led by and named for this Democratic senator from Idaho, which led to the passage of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA (“FYE-zuh”).
Investigations into the CIA were spurred when Ramparts magazine revealed that the agency had been funding the NSA, a coalition of governments based in these places. In the 1960s, Mario Savio led the Free Speech Movement from one of these places.
CIA [or Central Intelligence Agency]
Frank Church [or Frank Forrester Church III; accept Church Committee]
colleges [or universities; accept any answer indicating college or university or campus or similar; prompt on less-specific answers such as “schools” or similar] &lt;AH, American History&gt;
This dynasty established the House of Wisdom under its caliph Harun al-Rashid. For 10 points each:
Identify this Islamic Caliphate that displaced the Umayyads in 750 AD.
This general led the Abbasid forces in the revolution, beginning with his 747 AD capture of Merv in Khorasan. Mansur, the second Abbasid Caliph, had this man assassinated in order to forestall his claims to power.
The Abbasids defeated the forces of the Tang dynasty at the Battle of Talas in modern-day Kyrgyzstan, after which Chinese captives supposedly introduced this technology to the Muslim world.
Abbasid Caliphate
Abu Muslim Abd al-Rahman ibm Muslim al-Khorasani
paper [or paper-making] &lt;JG, World History&gt;
Enheduanna, the world’s first known author, detailed her expulsion from this city in “The Exaltation of Inanna.” For 10 points each:
Name this Sumerian city-state on the Euphrates whose Great Ziggurat was excavated by Leonard Woolley.
Enheduanna was the daughter of this great ruler of Akkad.
This last king of the Neo-Babylonian empire restored the Great Ziggurat of Ur and conducted archaeological research in the area. This father of Belshazzar was overthrown by Cyrus the Great.
Ur
Sargon of Akkad
Nabonidus &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
Answer the following about Isaiah Thomas, for 10 points each.
Thomas is best known for his work in this profession which he wrote a history of in 1810. A young Benjamin Franklin was apprenticed to his brother James, who worked in this profession.
In July 1776, Thomas became the first person in Massachusetts to read out this document written by Thomas Jefferson.
In 1771, this governor of Massachusetts tried to shut down Thomas’s newspaper, the Massachusetts Spy. Earlier, this man’s house was ransacked by a mob protesting the Stamp Act.
printer [accept word forms; accept equivalents such as publisher; accept anything involving newspapers]
Declaration of Independence
Thomas Hutchinson &lt;TR, American History&gt;
Mikhail Gorbachev began this campaign two months after coming to power in an effort to improve life expectancy and productivity. For 10 points each:
Describe this campaign that included price hikes and the use of “sugar stamps” but failed in part due to billions of rubles in lost tax revenue.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, deaths related to alcohol abuse increased greatly under the leadership of this alcoholic Russian president, who once drunkenly wandered outside the White House in his underwear trying to find pizza.
Legendarily, this prince of Kievan Rus converted his nation to Christianity rather than Islam due to the latter’s prohibition on alcohol.
anti-alcohol campaign [accept descriptive answers; accept types of alcohol]
Boris Yeltsin
Vladimir I [or Vladimir the Great] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
Lynn Povich’s book <em>The Good Girls Revolt</em> describes her involvement in a gender discrimination claim against this company. For 10 points each:
Name this magazine where Povich worked as a junior writer, and where women were not permitted to work as reporters until that lawsuit. This weekly magazine was the primary rival to Time for much of the 20th century.
The claim was filed with this federal agency that handles workplace discrimination cases. Clarence Thomas headed this agency before joining the Supreme Court.
Eleanor Holmes Norton, the assistant legal director of the ACLU who represented the Newsweek employees in their case, is currently the non-voting Delegate to the House of Representatives from this city whose license plates read “End Taxation Without Representation.”
Newsweek
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission [or EEOC]
Washington, DC [accept either; accept District of Columbia] &lt;TR, American History&gt;
Historian Leonie Treber has written about the “Myth” of these people, claiming that their image was created as part of an origin story for West Germany. For 10 points each:
Give either the original German term or the English translation for the German women who cleared out the damage done to cities after World War II.
A statue honoring Trümmerfrauen was erected in 1954 under this first Chancellor of West Germany who was credited with the economic recovery known as the Miracle on the Rhine.
Adenauer opposed the trials of Nazi war criminals held in this city, which is also the namesake of a set of anti-Semitic laws passed in 1935.
Trümmerfrauen [accept rubble women]
Konrad Adenauer
Nuremberg [or Nürnberg] &lt;TR, European History&gt;
This man studied the Etruscan people and was the last known person to speak their language. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman who surprisingly became emperor upon the assassination of his nephew Caligula.
In his youth, Claudius wrote one of these works that was likely suppressed by his family for being too accurate. His childhood tutor Livy is best known for a work of this type.
While serving in this office, Claudius added three letters to the Latin alphabet and gave a speech urging the Senate to admit members from Gaul. Cato the Elder was alternatively nicknamed for this office, as he spent his time in it trying to prevent the spread of Greek culture.
Claudius [or Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
history of Rome [or history of Augustus’s reign; accept equivalents]
censor [or Cato the Censor] &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
In 1988, an extremely salty William Westmoreland criticized this general for suffering high casualties while waging guerrilla campaigns against more powerful enemies. For 10 points each:
Name this commander in chief of the People’s Army of Vietnam who created the Ho Chi Minh trail.
Giáp organized a massive hand transportation of artillery and anti-aircraft guns to besiege the French during this battle that ended the First Indochina War.
After the Vietnam War ended, Giáp organized Vietnam’s overthrow of this totalitarian regime in another country that attempted to create a “Year Zero.”
Võ Nguyên Giáp (“VO n’win zap”)
Battle of Dien Bien Phu
Khmer Rouge &lt;TR, World History&gt;
This author’s most recent book, <em>Spain in our Hearts</em>, covers American volunteers in the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this historian who wrote King Leopold’s Ghost, which detailed atrocities committed in the Belgian Congo by the Force Publique.
This author wrote King Leopold’s Soliloquy, a satirical criticism of Leopold’s policy towards the Congo. This American author wrote about his tour of the Middle East in The Innocents Abroad.
Roger Casement, who wrote a namesake report about human rights abuses in the Congo, was executed for his support for this country’s independence. Activists for this country’s independence carried out the Easter Rising in Dublin.
Adam Hochschild
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Ireland &lt;TR, Other History&gt;
A group of Republicans who supported this man took their name from an Algonquian word roughly meaning “war chief.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who won the Presidency in 1884, thanks in part to the support of the aforementioned mugwumps. He is the only US President to serve two non-consecutive terms.
This earlier faction of Republicans were the sworn enemies of Roscoe Conkling. Their guiding issue was civil service reform, and they were responsible for the compromise nomination of James Garfield in 1880.
Republicans were often accused of performing this metaphorical action in the postbellum era. It served as a metaphor for both Union deaths and victims of Klan violence in the South.
(Stephen) Grover Cleveland
half-breeds
waving the bloody shirt [prompt on answers that don’t include “bloody”; accept answers that use equivalents for “waving”; do not accept “waving the bloody flag” or “waving the bloody rag”] &lt;DM, American History&gt;
The economy of this country was partially privatized via the “New Course” policy. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose SED party was led by Erich Honecker.
One of East Germany’s most prominent exports was this car known for its extremely smoky exhaust. This car’s body was constructed out of Duroplast, a plastic made from Soviet cotton waste.
239 East Germans died while attempting to do this action, including Peter Fechter, who was shot and left to bleed to death while trying to perform this action at the “death-strip” near Checkpoint Charlie.
East Germany [accept German Democratic Republic and GDR; do not accept or prompt on “Germany”]
the Trabant [or the Trabi; accept answers giving specific model numbers]
crossing the Berlin Wall [or equivalents; prompt on answers about fleeing the country that don’t mention the wall] &lt;GP European History&gt;
This man received the title of Duke of Arkansas for his economic contributions. For 10 points each:
Name this Scottish economist who established the Banque Royal in France, and was responsible for the Mississippi Company Bubble.
The Mississippi Company Bubble has often been compared to this bubble in Britain taking place at the same time. This bubble featured a company created by Robert Harley, that had exclusive trading rights in Spanish America.
The South Sea Bubble helped propel this man to power as the first de facto prime minister of Britain. This man’s time in power is referred to as the Robinocracy, and he was nicknamed the “Screenmaster-General.”
John Law
South Sea Bubble
Robert Walpole &lt;GP British History&gt;
Answer the following about the South Indian Kingdom of Mysore during the reign of Tipu Sultan, for 10 points each.
Tipu Sultan used sword-tipped rockets to great success against the forces of this joint-stock corporation, which ruled British India until it was removed from power following the Sepoy Mutiny.
Data collected by Francis Buchanan-Hamilton suggests the high living standard of workers with this substance in Tipu Sultan’s Mysore. Smuggling carried out by two Nestorian monks is credited with introducing this commodity to the Byzantine empire.
During his conflicts with the Company in Kerala [“CARE-uh-luh”], Tipu Sultan invaded the kingdom centered on this city, which was ruled by Hindu monarchs with the title Zamorin.
British East India Company [or the BEIC]
mulberry silk [prompt on fabric, textiles, and similar answers]
Calicut [accept Kozhikode] &lt;GP World History&gt;
Juanita Brooks is best known for her books about this event, which her grandfather Dudley Leavitt may have participated in. For 10 points each:
Name this event. The only person tried for participating in it, John D. Lee, said “I have been sacrificed in a cowardly, dastardly manner” before being executed by firing squad.
The perpetrators of the Mountain Meadows Massacre were from this religious group that came to Utah under the leadership of Brigham Young. Their first leader, Joseph Smith, was murdered by a mob in Carthage, Illinois.
The Mormons left this state after Governor Lilburn Boggs issued the “extermination order” against them. This state, where Joseph Smith located the Garden of Eden, entered the Union as a slave state when Maine entered as a free state.
Mountain Meadows Massacre
Church of Latter-Day Saints [or LDS; or the Mormon Church]
Missouri &lt;GP American History&gt;
Answer the following about five-time presidential candidate Eugene V. Debs, for 10 points each:
Debs led the American Railway Union in this strike which ended after Grover Cleveland deployed U.S. troops to force strikers to stop blocking train service.
Debs’s final run took place in this year, during which he was in prison for opposing the draft. In this year’s presidential election, James Cox and Franklin Roosevelt lost to a candidate who called for a “return to normalcy.”
The split of Debs’ Socialist Party with “Big Bill” Haywood and elements of the IWW was partly caused by disagreement over tactics during a strike of textile workers in this city. Elizabeth Gurley Flynn organized that “Bread and Roses” strike in this city.
Pullman Strike
1920 [prompt on ’20]
Lawrence, Massachusetts &lt;GP American History&gt;
This kingdom was briefly co-ruled by Kaomi, its ruler’s partner in a same-sex <em>aikāne</em> relationship. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom united by Kamehameha [“kuh-MAY-ha-MAY-ha”] the Great. After the overthrow of its final ruler, Liliuokalani, it was replaced by a republic led by Sanford Dole.
Kamehameha III’s lover Kaomi was from this kingdom, whose Queen Pōmare exchanged letters with Kamehameha. France made this kingdom a protectorate in 1842 and annexed it in 1880.
This other Polynesian state’s second civil war led to Germany, the UK, and the US dividing it among themselves. In 1889, a cyclone destroyed ships of all three powers that were moored in the harbor of this country’s capital, Apia.
Kingdom of Hawai‘i
Kingdom of Tahiti
Samoa &lt;GP World History&gt;
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Chancellor Simon Sudbury, was killed during this event. For 10 points each:
Name this 1381 rebellion that occurred in England due to tensions from the Black Death and Hundred Years’ War. Its leader was killed at Smithfield by the Mayor of London William Walworth.
As a 14-year-old, this English king met the leaders of the Peasants’ Revolt. This son of Edward the Black Prince was deposed by his cousin Henry of Bolingbroke while campaigning in Ireland.
The rebels pulverized the jewelry that they found in this palace before setting it on fire. Chaucer may have written the Book of the Duchess after the death of Blanche of Lancaster while working for John of Gaunt in this palace.
Peasants’ Revolt [or Wat Tyler’s Rebellion; or Great Rising; prompt on answers about rebellion that mention peasants that don’t include revolt; do not accept or prompt on “Peasants’ War”]
Richard II [prompt on Richard]
Savoy Palace &lt;GP British History&gt;
Answer the following about crusades that occured in Europe, for 10 points each.
In addition to the Fourth Crusade, Innocent III sanctioned this crusade in Southern France against a heretical gnostic sect whose dualist beliefs are often compared with the Bulgarian Bogomil [“BO-guh-mil”] sect.
A group of Dominicans investigated unspecified heresies while following this kingdom’s army on its Bosnian Crusade. That nominal crusade was led by a hunchbacked ruler of this kingdom, Coloman the Book-Lover.
The crusades against this group began after their namesake leader was executed at the Council of Constance. Joan of Arc dictated a letter threatening to intervene if this group did not return to Catholic orthodoxy.
Albigensian Crusade [or Cathar Crusade]
Kingdom of Hungary
Hussites &lt;GP European History&gt;
This event’s namesake leader was elected governor along with Samuel Ward King prior to it. For 10 points each:
Name this 1841 to 1842 rebellion in Rhode Island that aimed to win universal male suffrage.
This president made the decision to not send troops in against Dorr’s rebellion, but sent observers to monitor it. This man ascended to the presidency after the death of William Henry Harrison.
This Supreme Court case found matters involving the Guarantee Clause of the Fourth Amendment to be a “political question,” making the court unable to rule against the legitimacy of the Rhode Island government.
Dorr’s Rebellion
John Tyler
Luther v. Borden [accept either underlined name] &lt;GP American History&gt;
On one of its islands, this country built but a gigantic beach resort complex named Prora but never used it. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Robert Ley planned leisure activities for the masses as part of the Strength Through Joy program, which also sponsored the development of a “People’s Car.”
The Strength Through Joy program was promoted by the Nazi ministry named for this concept. Joseph Goebbels was the Nazi minister of this type of information that is disseminated with the intent to persuade.
This ship, named after an assassinated Nazi leader from Switzerland, was built as the flagship of the Strength Through Joy cruise fleet. The most deadly shipwreck in history occurred when this ship was sunk by a Soviet submarine while evacuating German civilians.
Nazi Germany [or Deutschland]
propaganda
MV Wilhelm Gustloff &lt;JB Euro/British History&gt;
The daughter of this member of the House of Braganza, Maria II, became queen of Portugal. For 10 points each:
Name this first emperor of his country, whose independence he declared in a speech called the Cry of Ipiranga.
Under Pedro I, Brazil fought the Cisplatine War over the “banda,” or “bank” of this name, a region that became Uruguay after the war. The oath sworn by thirty-three leaders of that province of this name is a foundational myth of Uruguayan history.
Pedro I’s granddaughter, Isabella, ended this practice in Brazil by signing the Golden Law. The Law of Free Birth was an earlier step in the Brazilian abolition of this practice, which had been ended six years earlier in the US by the 13th Amendment.
Dom Pedro I [prompt on Pedro]
Banda Oriental [or Provincia Oriental; or the Eastern Bank; or the Eastern Province]
slavery &lt;GP World History&gt;
Answer the following about rulers of the Rurikid Dynasty, for 10 points each.
Rurik, the dynasty’s founder, is said to have founded Holmgard, a fort that became this Russian city near Lake Ladoga. This city was called “the great” by citizens of its republic, which was the easternmost member of the Hansa.
One of Rurik’s descendants was this son of Vladimir the Great, who overthrew his brother Sviatopolk the Accursed, seized the port of Chersonesos from the Byzantines, and issued the Russkaya Pravda law code.
Yaroslav and Vladimir ruled the Rus’ [“roose”] from this city in present-day Ukraine on the Dnieper River.
Novgorod
Yaroslav the Wise [or Yaroslav I; prompt on Yaroslav]
Kiev [or Kyiv] &lt;GP European History&gt;
Ignatius White was sent to this nation to convince it to oppose the Glorious Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this country where King James II and his wife Mary fled to after they were deposed in the Glorious Revolution. It was ruled at the time by James’s cousin, who was nicknamed the “Sun King.”
France’s Louis XIV negotiated this treaty with James’s brother and predecessor Charles II. This secret treaty stipulated that he convert to Catholicism and help France fight the Dutch in exchange for 230,000 pounds a year.
After deposing James II, William III brought England into this war against France. This war is named for a coalition and was ended by the Treaty of Ryswick in 1697.
Kingdom of France
Secret Treaty of Dover
War of the League of Augsburg [or War of the Grand Alliance; or Nine Years’ War] &lt;GP Euro/British History&gt;
Thomas Chittenden served as the first and third leader of this government. For 10 points each:
Name this government that was formed following disputes over the Wentworth Grants. Its leaders were embarrassed by the revelation of their secret negotiations with Frederick Haldimand.
This militia force from the Vermont Republic was led by Seth Warner and Ethan Allen. They helped Benedict Arnold capture Fort Ticonderoga from the British in 1775.
Benedict Arnold fought the British on this lake during the Battle of Valcour Island. This lake was also the site of the Battle of Plattsburgh in the War of 1812.
Vermont Republic
Green Mountain Boys
Lake Champlain &lt;GP American History&gt;
This empire reached its height under the rule of Hayam Wuruk. For 10 points each:
Name this final Hindu kingdom in Southeast Asia. It was based out of Java with capital at Trowulan, and Gajah Mada served as this kingdom’s most able prime minister.
This ruler sent a failed invasion of the Majapahit Kingdom in 1293. This emperor of the Yuan Dynasty was thwarted in his attempts to invade the Kamakura Shogunate by typhoons called “kamikaze.”
The Majapahit subjugated a kingdom on this island in 1398. On this island, Stamford Raffles established a trading port that became part of the Straits Settlements.
Majapahit [“mah-jah-PA-heet”] Kingdom
Kublai Khan [or Yuan Shizu]
Singapore &lt;GP World History&gt;
These people created a kingdom in Southern Italy under their leaders Roger Bosso and Roger II. For 10 points each:
Name these people who were first led by the Viking Rollo. The Hautevilles were a family from these people.
Some of the Hautevilles, such as Bohemond and Tancred participated in this conflict. Bohemond would leave this campaign after the capture of Antioch, while Tancred would join the other leaders in capturing Jerusalem.
The Principality of Antioch would eventually be made a vassal of this empire under its ruler Manuel I. Bohemond and his father Robert Guiscard defeated this empire at the Battle of Dyrrhachium.
Normans
First Crusade [prompt on crusade]
Byzantine Empire &lt;GP European History&gt;
26 members of this ethnic group were killed in the Rock Springs Massacre. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group that faced discrimination when they came in large numbers during the California Gold Rush. This ethnic group was banned from migrating to the United States by a namesake exclusion act.
These 1943 riots in Los Angeles targeted Mexican-Americans and their “pachuco” gangs after the Sleepy Lagoon murder case.
Eleven Italian-Americans were lynched in this city in 1894 for the killing of police officer David Hennessy. This city was also home of the “Axeman” serial killer, whose victims were primarily Italian-Americans.
Chinese-Americans
Zoot Suit Riots
New Orleans &lt;GP American History&gt;
In a surprising announcement, Jacob Zuma announced that he was stepping down from his position as president of this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Zuma succeeded Thabo Mbeki in 2009. Until 1994, this country’s white-minority led government was maintained by a system of apartheid.
Zuma was a member of this political party, which gained power with the election of Nelson Mandela. Though its share of the vote has decreased in recent years, it remains the most powerful party in South Africa.
This man replaced Zuma as president on February 15, 2018. He has been President of the ANC since December 2017, and has been active in South African politics since the 1970s.
Republic of South Africa
ANC [or African National Congress]
Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa &lt;JK Current Events&gt;
This man was once the supposed author of a rhyming translation of the <em>Consolation of Philosophy</em> called the <em>Metres of Boethius</em> [“bo-EE-thee-us”]. For 10 points each:
Name this man who explained his goals in translating Gregory the Great’s Pastoral Care into his vernacular language in a preface to the work. A jewel named for him is likely one of the æstels he sent to bishops along with that translation.
The translations carried out by Alfred and his scholars mostly rendered Latin texts in this Anglo-Saxon language used to write Beowulf.
King Alfred’s support for scholarship also led him to found a palace school in imitation of the one that was established by Charlemagne and led by this scholar from York.
Alfred the Great
Old English [do not accept or prompt on “English” or “Middle English”]
Alcuin &lt;JB British History&gt;
The general Quizquiz [“kees-kees”] served in this empire’s civil war, which pitted Huascar against his brother. For 10 points each:
Name this South American empire with capital at Cuzco. It used the Quechua [“KETCH-wah”] language and used knotted strings called quipu [“kee-poo”] for record-keeping.
Quipus were often stored at stations known as tambos, where these messengers of the Inca would stop to relay information to other carriers.
Citizens of the Inca empire paid this tax where they worked on public projects for a few months out of the year. Under Spanish rule, one-seventh of a community’s male workers were required to work in mines to pay this tax.
Inca Empire
chasquis
mit’a &lt;GP World History&gt;
Bishop Hermann of Dorpat led the losing side at this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this 1242 battle, often considered a decisive defeat in the Northern Crusades, at which the Novgorodian forces of Alexander Nevsky defeat the Livonian Order on the frozen Lake Peipus.
The Livonian Order was a branch of this crusader order, whose state controlled much of the Baltics until its Grand Master Albert created the Duchy of Prussia from its southern regions.
Albert’s new Duchy of Prussia was officially recognized after he pledged loyalty to this uncle of his, the king of Poland. His childless son of the same name established an electoral monarchy through the Union of Lublin and was the last of the Jagiellons.
Battle of the Ice
Teutonic Order [or Teutonic Knights]
Sigismund I [or Sigismund the Old; accept Zygmunt or Žygimantas in place of Sigismund; prompt on Sigismund] &lt;GP European History&gt;
Nathaniel Gorham tried to give this position to Prince Henry of Prussia in the so-called Prussian Scheme. For 10 points each:
Name this position that Lewis Nicola urged the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army to take in a letter written from his army quarters in Newburgh.
This commander-in-chief of the Continental Army, the recipient of Nicola’s letter, declared “I have not only grown gray but almost blind in the service of my country” in a speech that put down the Newburgh Conspiracy.
This “financier of the revolution” was believed to be one of the conspirators in the Newburgh Conspiracy. He served as Superintendent of Finance during the 1780s, and shares his surname with a founder named “Gouverneur” who wrote the Preamble to the Constitution.
Monarch of the United States [accept King or anything indicating a royal title in place of “Monarch”; accept variants like US or America in place of “United States”]
George Washington
Robert Morris Jr. &lt;GP American History&gt;
Hrant Dink was assassinated for his opposition to his country’s denial of the historicity of this event. For 10 points each:
Name this event that was carried out by the government of Minister of War Enver Pasha. Discussion of this event is forbidden by a country’s Article 301.
The Armenian Genocide was carried out in this empire, which later became modern-day Turkey. This “sick man of Europe” was led by the “Three Pashas” during World War I.
Prior to the genocide, Armenians were blamed for Enver Pasha’s defeat at the Battle of Sarikamish, a clash in the campaign of World War I fought in this region. Shamil led an Imamate based in this region that fought against the Russians in the 19th century.
Armenian Genocide [or the Armenian Massacre of 1915; or the Armenian Holocaust; or the Medz Yegern]
Ottoman Empire [accept Osmanli Imparatorlugu or Osmanli Devleti]
Caucasus [or the Caucasian region] &lt;JO World History&gt;
This country’s Field Marshall Johan Banér signed the Treaty of Barwalde, which obtained French funding for its army. For 10 points each:
Name this empire that surprisingly allied with Catholic France during the later stages of the Thirty Years’ War, against the advice of its minister Oxenstierna [“ook-sen-SHWANN-ah”].
This French statesman’s agents organized the Franco-Swedish alliance. This “Red Eminence” served as the chief minister of Louis XIII and tutored his successor, Cardinal Mazarin [“mah-zah-RAN”].
Richelieu supported Axel Oxenstierna’s efforts to create this league, an alliance between Sweden, France, and the German Protestant Princes. This league was crushed by the Catholics at the first Battle of Nördlingen.
Swedish Empire [or Kingdom of Sweden]
Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand Jean du Plessis, Duke of Richelieu]
Heilbronn League &lt;GP European History&gt;
This man was known by the nickname “Toom Tabard,” meaning “empty coat,” due to an incident in which his country’s arms were torn off his coat. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was made king of his country by Edward I of England. He was forced to abdicate in the wake of an English invasion, though his son Edward would later try to claim the Scottish throne.
John Balliol was made king of Scotland over this man, who later took the throne of Scotland after killing his rival John Comyn. His forces defeated the English at the Battle of Bannockburn.
This rebel fought the English in the First Scottish War of Independence alongside Andrew Moray. His forces won the Battle of Stirling Bridge, but lost the Battle of Falkirk, resulting in his capture and execution by the English.
John Balliol [prompt on John]
Robert I [or Robert the Bruce; prompt on Robert]
William Wallace &lt;GP British History&gt;
A Catholic university was divided into separate campuses for these two languages after a student march against speakers of one of them. For 10 points each:
Name these two languages. The protection of one against the other is advocated by the far-right Vlaams Belang, and both are officially recognized in the smallest of the four “language areas” of a country where they are spoken.
A variety of Dutch called Flemish is primarily spoken in this region of Belgium, which is north of French-speaking Wallonia. A medieval wool market thrived in this region’s city of Bruges [“broozh”].
The protests that split the University of Leuven occured in this year, during which the ideas of the Situationist International helped spark spontaneous wildcat strikes in another country.
Dutch AND French [accept Flemish, West Flemish, Vlaams, or West-Vlaams in place of “Dutch”]
Flanders [or Vlaanderen]
1968 [prompt on ’68] &lt;JB European History&gt;
When told a story about how this ruler had had an affair with the queen of the Amazons, one of his generals jokingly asked where he had been at the time. For 10 points each:
Name this Macedonian ruler who conquered the Persian Empire.
According to one of the Alexander romances, Alexander also had a romantic encounter with a holder of this title, which was taken by queens who ruled the Kingdom of Kush from Meroë.
In another story, Alexander’s mother was secretly impregnated by a ruler from this country. Alexander was supposedly told he was a god at Siwa in this country, where one of his generals known as “Soter” founded a successor kingdom.
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III; prompt on Alexander]
Kandake [or Candace]
Egypt &lt;CH World History&gt;
Answer the following about stirrups in early medieval European history, for 10 points each.
A technological deterministic thesis advanced by Lynn White controversially credits the introduction of the stirrup with the development of this political system in which vassals held fiefdoms under lords.
White cited this man’s distribution of church lands to supporters who promised to serve in his mounted army. This leader used a phalanx formation to withstand the charge of Abd ar-Rahman’s forces at a 732 battle.
The stirrup was likely introduced to Europe by this nomadic people, who appeared in Europe and settled the Pannonian basin in the 6th century AD. Charlemagne fought multiple campaigns against this people’s namesake khaganate.
feudalism
Charles Martel [or Charles the Hammer; prompt on Charles]
Avars &lt;JB European History&gt;
One member of this dynasty’s “Illustrious Generation” was King Edward, the author of the treatise <em>The Loyal Counsellor</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty that took power in its country after its first king, John I, won the Battle of Aljubarrota against the Castilians. Henry the Navigator was from this dynasty.
The House of Aviz lost control of Portugal when this Spanish monarch took the Portuguese throne, creating the Iberian Union. This one-time husband of Queen Mary sent the Spanish Armada against her successor.
While part of the Iberian Union, Portugal fought a war with this country after it seized the Santa Catarina. This country took the Malabar Coast from Portugal, but lost power in the region after being defeated by the Kingdom of Travancore in 1741.
House of Aviz
Philip II [or Philip I of Portugal; or Philip the Prudent; accept Felipe or Filipe in place of “Philip”; prompt on Philip]
Netherlands [or Dutch Republic and Holland] &lt;GP European History&gt;
Coins minted by Commodus reversed this initialism in order to put the people before the Senate. For 10 points each:
Name this four-letter abbreviation that appeared atop Roman standards under the golden eagle.
This British classicist wrote a history of Rome entitled SPQR. In 2017, this author of The Roman Triumph engaged in a Twitter war with Nassim Taleb over a BBC video depicting a black legionnaire in Britain.
The Roman legionnaire who carried the eagle standard, the aquilifer, ranked immediately below this rank in the Roman army, whose holders commanded units of around one hundred soldiers.
SPQR [accept Senātus Populusque Rōmānus]
Mary Beard
centurion &lt;JB Euro/British History&gt;
Some of this state’s rulers were appointed by the warlord Kaidu. For 10 points each:
Name this successor state to the Mongol Empire that consisted of Moghulistan and Transoxiana and was located northeast of the Ilkhanate.
Much of the Western Chagatai Khanate fell to this warlord from the Barlas tribe by 1370. This Turkic conqueror defeated Bayezid I at the Battle of Ankara and got his nickname from a leg wound.
Timur seized this city from the Chagatai Khanate, which he made his capital. His tomb, the Gur-e-Amir, is located in this city in modern-day Uzbekistan, a major center on the Silk Road.
Chagatai Khanate
Timur the Lame [or Tamerlane; or Timur-e-Leng]
Samarkand &lt;GP World/Other History&gt;
The Marais du Cygne massacre took place during this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict between pro-slavery Border Ruffians and anti-slavery Free-Staters in a namesake US territory from 1854 to 1861.
This editor of the New York Tribune coined the term “Bleeding Kansas.” He helped post bail for Jefferson Davis, and also popularised the phrase “Go west, young man.”
The Free State Hotel was destroyed with a cannon during this action of Bleeding Kansas, which targeted a community founded by the New England Emigrant Aid Company. John Brown committed the Pottawatomie Massacre in revenge for this event.
Bleeding Kansas
Horace Greeley
Sacking of Lawrence [accept equivalents of “sacking of,” such as siege of, looting of, attack on, etc.] &lt;GP American History&gt;
Joseph E. Johnston replaced this general as the leader of the Army of Tennessee. For 10 points each:
Name this Confederate general who was recalled after a decisive defeat to Ulysses S. Grant during the Chattanooga Campaign.
Bragg earlier led the Confederates to a victory at this battle, largely due to the arrival of James Longstreet. This battle saw the defeat of William Rosencrans’s Army of the Cumberland.
At the Battle of Chickamauga, general Benjamin Hardin Helm, a brother-in-law of this politician, was killed. In his second inaugural address, this man called for the Union to act “with malice toward none, with charity for all.”
Braxton Bragg
Battle of Chickamauga
Abraham Lincoln &lt;AN American History&gt;
Answer the following about the Protestant Reformation in Italy, for 10 points each.
Italian members of this movement agreed to anti-trinitarian doctrines at a 1550 council in Venice. This broad, radical Protestant movement included the followers of John of Leiden and sects such as the Amish and Mennonites.
Many members of Fausto Sozzini’s nontrinitarian sect joined this region’s Unitarian Church after their expulsion from Poland. This vampire-associated region with a name meaning “beyond the forest” forms modern Romania with Wallachia.
Prior to her heresy trial, this Italian city’s countess Renée of France patronized Protestants such as John Calvin at her court. This city ruled by the d’Este family was the second site, after Basel, of the Council of Florence.
Anabaptists
Transylvania
Ferrara &lt;JB European History&gt;
Answer some questions about Jagmeet Singh. For 10 points each:
Jagmeet Singh leads the New Democratic Party, which finished third behind these two main Canadian political parties in the 2015 election. Name both.
Jagmeet Singh replaced this man as leader of the New Democratic Party. This MP from Outremont announced that he would resign his seat in the summer of 2018 to serve as a visiting professor in Montreal.
Jagmeet Singh will run against this current Canadian prime minister in 2019. In February 2018, this man controversially used the term “peoplekind” rather than mankind in a nod to feminism.
Liberal Party of Canada AND Conservative Party of Canada [prompt on partial answer]
Thomas Joseph Mulcair
Justin Trudeau [prompt on Trudeau] &lt;AN Current Events&gt;
One of these places in Hameln is the setting of the diary written by a 17th-century businesswoman named Glückel. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of place. One of these places in Warsaw was destroyed by Jürgen Stroop’s forces after a failed uprising.
Glückel of Hameln’s diary was written in this Germanic language, which is written in the Hebrew alphabet and developed among Europe’s Ashkenazi Jews.
Glückel’s diary describes how her father-in-law packed chests of dried meat to prepare for a journey to join this man in the Holy Land. This false messiah attracted followers throughout the Jewish world before his forced conversion to Islam.
Jewish ghettos
Yiddish
Sabbatai Zevi [accept either name; accept Shabbatai Tzvi] &lt;JB European History&gt;
The Barmakid family rose to positions of power in a government centered on this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city where the last Abbasid caliph, Al Musta’sim, was rolled up in a carpet and trampled by horses. Saddam Hussein’s government was based in this city.
The Barmakids built a paper mill in Baghdad after the Abbasid Caliphate halted Chinese expansion into Central Asia by defeating the forces of this dynasty at the Battle of Talas River.
One of the dynasties that sprung up in Transoxiana after the demise of the Abbasids was this one, whose founder Sabuktigin founded it by seizing Samanid territory. Its sultan Mahmud patronized the poet Ferdowsi.
Baghdad
Tang dynasty
Ghaznavids &lt;GP World History&gt;
This politician gained his highest post after defeating Gerald Ford in the 1976 Presidential Election. For 10 points each:
Name this former Georgia governor turned President. His Vice President was Minnesota Senator Walter Mondale.
Carter was succeeded as Governor of Georgia by this Democrat. This segregationist politician gained notoriety early on by refusing to serve African American customers in Atlanta.
In 1976, Maddox also ran as president as part of this third party. This is not the Democratic Party, but one candidate from this party was shot by Arthur Bremer, paralyzing him permanently from the waist down.
James Earl Carter Jr.
Lester Garfield Maddox Sr.
American Independent Party &lt;AN American History&gt;
This ruler was forced to pay 11,000 pounds of gold to the Persians for the “Eternal Peace.” For 10 points each:
Name this Byzantine emperor known as “the great” who was married to Theodora. The Nika riots and conquest of Italy from the Ostrogoths occurred during his reign.
Justinian was forced to pay 11,000 pounds of gold to this Sassanid shahanshah for the “Eternal Peace.” This son of Kavadh broke the “Eternal Peace” eight years later by invading Syria and capturing Antioch.
The “Eternal Peace” was signed after this Byzantine general defeated the Persians at the Battle of Dara. This general also conquered the Vandal kingdom and temporarily controlled Rome during the Gothic War.
Justinian I [or Justinian the Great]
Khosrow I [or Khosrow Anushirawan; or Khosrow the Just; prompt on Khosrow]
Flavius Belisarius &lt;GP European History&gt;
Answer the following about Anthelme Brillat-Savarin [“on-TELM bree-YAH-sav-RAN”], whose 1826 book <em>Physiology of Taste</em> established him as one of the first food writers, for 10 points each.
Brillat-Savarin was part of the Estates General during this period of turmoil, during which many of the first restaurants were established by cooks once employed by nobles. Periods of this event include the Reign of Terror and the Thermidorian Reaction.
During the Revolution, Brillat-Savarin briefly fled to this modern-day country, where the writer Germaine de Staël [“stahl”] also spent her exile. Revolts such as the Bourla-papey [“BOOR-lah-pah-PAY”] and the War of the Sticks destabilized a state in this country that was abolished by the Act of Mediation.
Brillat-Savarin also spent time in exile in the US, where he may have learned to cook wild turkey from this politician. While Minister to France, this man helped Lafayette draft the Declaration of the Rights of Man.
French Revolution [or the French First Republic]
Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation]
Thomas Jefferson &lt;CH Euro/British History&gt;
In one speech, this man called the assassination of President John F. Kennedy “chickens coming home to roost.” For 10 points each:
Name this African-American civil rights leader, who was convinced by Elijah Muhammad to join the political and religious group Nation of Islam.
In justifying the “chickens coming home to roost” comment, Malcolm cited the death of this civil rights leader. This NAACP field secretary was murdered in Mississippi by Klansman Byron De La Beckwith.
This Malcolm X speech compares taking civil rights cases to the federal government to “running from the wolf to the fox,” and speaks of “the type of Black man on the scene in America today… who just doesn’t intend to turn the other cheek any longer.”
Malcolm X [or Malcolm Little; or El-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz]
Medgar Wiley Evers
“The Ballot or the Bullet” Speech &lt;AN American History&gt;
At this battle, the attacking force under Robert II of Artois was defeated by William of Julich. For 10 points each:
Name this 1302 battle at which French knights were decisively beaten by Flemish militia, making it an example of the nascent “Infantry Revolution.”
This French king ruled during the Franco-Flemish War, which he won 1305. This king oversaw the expulsion of France’s Jews and the destruction of the Knights Templar.
Before the Battle of the Golden Spurs, the Flemish massacred French soldiers who failed to correctly say the word for this object and “friend.” The buckler was a small, round type of these defensive objects that are carried by hand.
Battle of the Golden Spurs [or Battle of Courtrai]
Philip IV [or Philip the Fair; prompt on Philip]
shields &lt;GP European History&gt;
A Directorate took power in this country in 1918 after its anti-socialist Skoropadsky regime was deposed. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose short-lived People’s Republic was led by Symon Petliura, who was assassinated by Shlomo Schwarzbard in Paris in 1926 in part of because of the atrocities perpetrated by his forces.
Schwarzbard shot Petliura because he held him responsible for a massive one of these events in Ukraine that killed his entire family. The 1905 Russian Revolution was accompanied by many of these bouts of anti-Semitic violence.
Pogroms often targeted these small Jewish towns of Eastern Europe, many of which were founded in the Russian Pale of Settlement.
Ukraine
pogroms
shtetls &lt;GP European History&gt;
The Massina Empire was created by one of these events that targeted the Bambara Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of event that became a common method of West African state formation in the 19th century after Usman dan Fodio conducted one that established the Sokoto Empire.
The Kingdom of Kong, which is sometimes classed as one of the jihad states, was founded by the Dyula people, a caste of this profession. In medieval Eurasia, people of this occupation travelled with their goods on the Silk Road.
One of the other major 19th-century African jihads was conducted by Umar Tall, who clashed with Louis Faidherbe’s [“fed-AIRB’s”] French forces in this modern-day country. Léopold Senghor was this country’s first president.
West African jihads [prompt on holy wars or equivalents of rebellions]
merchants [or traders]
Senegal &lt;JB World History&gt;
Answer the following about William Cronon’s book <em>Changes in the Land</em>, for 10 points each.
Cronon’s book documents how the deforestation practices, diseases, and livestock that colonists brought to this region changed its ecology. A “Dominion” of this region was ruled by Edmund Andros until his 1689 overthrow.
In it, Cronon discusses how these animals introduced by the colonists wrought havoc on the Indian’s supply of food such as oysters. Salted meat from the belly of this animal and bullets covered in its lard were widely used during the Civil War.
The book borrows the term “merchantable commodities” from this author’s 1584 Discourse Concerning Western Planting. This man’s treatises on voyages to the New World are widely credited with popularizing English colonization efforts.
New England
pigs [or hogs, boars, sows, etc.]
Richard Hakluyt [“HACK-lutt”] &lt;JB American History&gt;
This conflict saw the release of the Twelve Articles, which called for the removal of the Todfall tax. For 10 points each:
Name this revolt led by Thomas Muntzer. The Battles of Frankenhausen took place during this revolt, which was violently crushed by the Swabian League.
This man encouraged the nobility to kill the “murderous, thieving hordes of peasants.” Three years earlier, this man returned to Wittenberg from Wartburg Castle, where he’d been in hiding after the Diet of Worms.
Participants in various German peasant movements, including the Peasants’ War, displayed one of these objects on their flag. The term sabotage derives from a type of these objects carved out of pieces of wood by French peasants.
German Peasants’ War of 1525
Martin Luther
shoes [or Bundschuh; or equivalents such as footwear or clogs] &lt;GP Euro/British History&gt;
Answer the following about the potato in European history, for 10 points each.
The 1917 “Potato Riots” took place in this country due to the export of potatoes to Britain and Germany for coal. The Germans built an electric fence called the “Wire of Death” along this country’s southern border during the war.
The gardens of this palace were turned into a potato field during the French Revolution. Louis XVI and his family were brought back to Paris and confined in this palace after the Women’s March on Versailles.
Sultan Abdulmecid attempted to donate 10,000 pounds to victims of the Irish Potato Famine, but was requested to lessen his donation to prevent it from being higher than that of this woman, the queen of Britain.
Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Holland]
Tuileries [“tweel-REE”] Palace
Queen Victoria &lt;GP Euro/British History&gt;
One system proposed by this politician was nicknamed “Every Man a King.” For 10 points each:
Name this Louisiana Democratic politician who developed the “Share Our Wealth” program in opposition to FDR’s New Deal. He was shot and killed by Carl Weiss in 1935.
A Democratic politician from this family also challenged President Franklin Roosevelt in the 1936 Primaries. Another politician from this family was nominated by the southern wing of his party in an election in which the vote was further split by John Ball’s Constitutional Union Party.
Henry S. Breckinridge served as an attorney during this trial. Despite proclaiming his innocence, the German-American Richard Hauptmann was convicted and executed as a result of this trial.
Huey Pierce Long Jr.
Breckinridge family
Charles A. Lindbergh Jr. abduction trial [or equivalent answers that refer to the son of Charles Lindbergh being kidnapped or murdered] &lt;AN American History&gt;
The Buland Darwaza gate commemorated the conquest of this region. For 10 points each:
Name this Western Indian state once ruled by a sultanate of the same name that allied with the Mamluks against the Portuguese at the Battle of Diu. Akbar conquered this region for the Mughals by 1583.
Gujarat was previously ruled by this Indian sultanate after its conquest in 1304. Sultana Razia was a prominent female ruler of this sultanate’s Mamluk dynasty, which was succeeded by the Khilji and later the Lodi dynasty.
Gujarat was the home state of this man, who led a march to collect salt from its coastal town of Dandi as part of his campaign of nonviolent resistance to British rule.
Gujarat
Delhi Sultanate
Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi; prompt on Mahatma or Bapu] &lt;GP World/Other History&gt;
A photograph taken during this event depicts the 14-year-old runaway Mary Ann Vecchio kneeling over the body of Jeffrey Miller. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which unarmed students were attacked by members of the Ohio National Guard.
The students targeted in the Kent State shootings were protesting American involvement in this war, specifically the massive bombing operations conducted in its Cambodian Campaign.
In a less bloody instance of anti-Vietnam War activism on a Midwestern college campus, Marshall Sahlins held the first of these events at the University of Michigan. This form of protest features expert lectures and group discussions.
Kent State Massacre
Vietnam War
teach-ins &lt;AN American History&gt;
This man and Gustav Stresemann shared the 1926 Nobel Peace Prize for their work with Austen Chamberlain on the Locarno Treaties. For 10 points each:
Name this eleven-time prime minister of France who proposed and names with Frank Kellogg a pact intended to universally outlaw war.
With Émile Combes, Briand was one of the main proponents and authors of a 1905 law that officially implemented this doctrine. The Jules Ferry laws on schooling are the first notable implementation of this doctrine.
In 1922, Briand attended a conference in Washington that was intended to regulate the size of these forces. An arms race was sparked by the introduction of the HMS Dreadnought by the royal British force of this type.
Aristide Briand
laïcité [or secularism; or separation of church and state; prompt on anti-clericalism or anti-Catholicism; prompt on freedom of religion]
navies [or naval forces] &lt;JB European History&gt;
WARNING: TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED. One of these two nations ceded the Caroline and Marianas Islands to the other after World War I. For 10 points each:
Name these two countries that, along with Italy, formed the Tripartite Pact in 1940. The Nuremberg and Tokyo Trials tried war criminals from these two nations after World War II.
During World War I, Japan captured this city in Germany’s Kiautschou Bay Concession. This Chinese city is home to St. Michael’s Cathedral, built by German missionaries.
Germany, France, and Russia earlier prevented Japan from annexing the Liaodong Peninsula in this treaty through the Triple Intervention. This treaty ended the First Sino-Japanese War of 1894 to 1895.
Germany AND Japan
Qingdao
Treaty of Shimonoseki &lt;GP World History&gt;
This man emerged victorious over Sweyn Estridsson at the Battle of Nisa in 1062. For 10 points each:
Name this man who succeeded Magnus the Good as the King of Norway. He won the Battle of Fulford during his invasion of England.
While in exile, Harald Hardrada had served as the commander of the Byzantine Varangian Guard, with whom he fought in a campaign against the emirate of this island. This Italian island is home to the city of Syracuse.
Harald Hardrada was killed in this battle on the Derwent River. Harold Godwinson defeated Hardrada and his ally Tostig Godwinson at this battle, which is generally considered the end of the Viking Age in England.
Harald Hardrada [or Harald Sigurdsson; or Harald III; prompt on Harald]
Sicily
Battle of Stamford Bridge &lt;GP British History&gt;
This island was seized from Isaac Komnenos in 1191. For 10 points each:
Name this island that at one point was controlled by the Knights Templar, and was the site of the Siege of Famagusta before the Battle of Lepanto.
This man conquered Cyprus from Komnenos in retribution for the capture of his sister Joan and fianceé Berengaria. This man fought Saladin during the Third Crusade and was succeeded by his brother John as King of England.
The House of Lusignan sold Cyprus to this city, which would lose it to the Ottoman Empire. This city also lost the Cretan and Morean Wars to the Ottomans, and its territories were called the Stato da Mar.
Cyprus
Richard the Lionheart [Richard I; prompt on Richard]
Republic of Venice &lt;GP European History&gt;
The lenient sentencing of this man’s murderer sparked the White Night Riots. For 10 points each:
Name this openly gay member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors who was killed by Dan White.
Before shooting Milk, White killed this mayor of San Francisco. This man refused to investigate Jim Jones and the People’s Temple, and he was succeeded by Diane Feinstein.
During the trial, Dan White’s lawyer’s citing of his junk food eating habits as a sign of his depression was misleadingly dubbed a “defense” named for this sugary snack food.
Harvey (Bernard) Milk
George (Richard) Moscone
Twinkie [prompt on Hostess cakes] &lt;AN American History&gt;
These people fought against the Spanish Empire in the Arauco War. For 10 points each:
Name this indigenous group that live south of the Bio-Bio River in Chile. They resisted expansion from both the Inca and Spanish and killed the conquistador Pedro de Valdivia.
The Mapuches of this region were subjugated by Argentina during its Conquest of The Desert. Large numbers of Welsh immigrants settled in the Chubut Valley of this region.
Mapuche men known as malónes stole this commodity in Patagonia to exchange for alcohol and weapons in Chile. The alleged stealing of this commodity led to the Johnson County War in Wyoming.
Mapuche
Patagonia
cattle [or cows] &lt;GP World/Other History&gt;
Sarah Pomeroy’s book titled for these people discusses ones such as the Olympic champion Cynisca and the philosopher Chilonis. For 10 points each:
Name these people. A section from Plutarch’s Moralia presenting the “sayings” of these people describes one of them who gave a man departing for war his shield and told him “Either this or upon this.”
“The Sayings of Spartan Women” also presents several aphorisms of this Spartan queen, including one in which she urges her father King Cleomenes to rebuff Aristagoras’s attempts to involve him in the Ionian Revolt.
Cynisca won an Olympic laurel through her skill at driving the quadriga, a type of these vehicles pulled by four horses. The Romans held races for these wheeled vehicles at the Circus Maximus.
Spartan women [or Spartan mothers; or Spartan wives; accept equivalents; prompt on Spartans; prompt on Greek women; prompt by asking “from where?” on answers such as women, mothers, wives, etc.]
Gorgo
chariots &lt;JB Euro History&gt;
One of this group’s leading members wrote a work which criticized the “animal-like” way men and women were allowed to mix in the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this group whose members included the author of “The America that I Have Seen,” Sayyid Qutb. This group was founded by Hassan al-Banna.
Sayyid Qutb was assassinated by the Egyptian secret police after plotting to kill this Egyptian president. The Free Officers Movement propelled this man and his predecessor Mohammed Naguib to power in Egypt.
The Muslim Brotherhood was founded by al-Banna with the help of six people who worked on this transportation route. Nasser’s nationalization of this route connecting the Mediterranean and Red Seas led to a joint British-French invasion of Egypt.
Muslim Brotherhood [or Society of the Muslim Brothers, or Jamāʻat al-Ikhwān al-Muslimīn]
Gamal Abdel Nasser Hussein
Suez Canal &lt;CH World History&gt;
Years after leaving his highest office, this politician represented the Cherokee Nation against the State of Georgia. For 10 points each:
Name this man who served as attorney general under Monroe and John Quincy Adams. At the first ever presidential nominating convention, this man was chosen as the Anti-Masonic Party candidate with Amos Ellmaker as his running mate.
Anti-Masonic Party nominated Wirt for this presidential election. This election saw Henry Clay’s second run for the president, as well as the election of Martin van Buren to Vice President.
In Henry Clay’s final run for the presidency, he lost to this former Speaker of the House and Governor of Tennessee. This man’s running mate in that election was George M. Dallas.
William Wirt
1832 Presidential Election
John Knox Polk &lt;AN American History&gt;
This man commented “They shoot like pigs” after a failed assassination attempt. For 10 points each:
Name this French president who was targeted by the OAS in a failed assassination attempt for making peace during the Algerian War. He established the Fifth Republic and led the Free French forces during World War II.
De Gaulle’s negotiations involved Ahmed Ben Bella, the leader of this Algerian party that led the independence movement. It was the country’s only legal party until 1989.
After de Gaulle signed the Evian accords to grant Algeria independence, many of this group of French residents of the country were massacred in Oran, helping to spur the exodus of nearly one million of them to France.
Charles de Gaulle
FLN [or National Liberation Front; or Front de Libération Nationale]
pied-noirs [or black feet; prompt on colons] &lt;GP European History&gt;
This country was the site of political protests after police shot protesters at Masan Harbor. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose April Revolution forced its first president to resign. A president of this country who took power in a coup ordered the Gwangju Massacre in 1980.
Another April Uprising took place in this country against Ottoman rule in 1876. This country would also be the site of the Russian victory at Shipka Pass during the Russo-Turkish War of 1877 to 1878.
This man wrote the April Theses while returning from exile in Switzerland. During his country’s civil war, his armies crushed the Kronstadt and Tambov Rebellions, and he also introduced the New Economic Policy.
South Korea [or Republic of Korea; prompt on Korea]
Bulgaria
Vladimir Lenin [accept Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov] &lt;GP World/Other History&gt;
This territory’s city of Krujë [“KROO-yuh”] was repeatedly besieged during a revolt against the Ottomans. For 10 points each:
Name this eastern European territory whose modern nation with the same name has its capital at Tirana.
This Albanian hero left the Ottomans at the Battle of Nis. He later led his namesake rebellion against the Ottoman Empire, and also helped the Venetians in the First Ottoman-Venetian war before his death.
In Skanderbeg’s rebellion against the Ottomans, he led this alliance of Albanian lords. However, this league, which won the Battle of Torvill, was unable to create a long-lasting independent Albanian state.
Albania
Skanderbeg [or George Castriot]
League of Lezhe &lt;AN European History&gt;
European victims of this people’s practice of cannibalism included the French explorer Marion du Fresne and the crew of the <em>Boyd</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose tribes fought the Musket Wars in the early 19th-century. They are the indigenous people of New Zealand.
William Hobson convinced over 500 Māori chiefs to sign this treaty in 1840, giving the British Empire control over New Zealand.
The Taranaki Māori exterminated and enslaved the native Moriori people of these islands. After suppressing the Hauhau Movement, the New Zealand government imprisoned many of its adherents on these islands.
Māori
Treaty of Waitangi
Chatham Islands &lt;GP World History&gt;
At this battle, the Americans defeated a British-Western Confederacy alliance that included Blue Jacket. For 10 points each:
Name this 1794 battle in Ohio that led to the end of the Northwest Indian War and the signing of the Treaty of Greenville.
The American army at the Battle of Fallen Timbers was led by this “mad” general. A fort named for him was constructed at the site of Kekionga, the Miami tribe’s capital, in present-day Indiana.
The US Army was defeated in Ohio by Little Turtle and Blue Jacket at the Battle of the Wabash, a loss often called this general’s “defeat.” This first governor of the Northwest Territory was earlier court-martialed after retreating from Fort Ticonderoga.
Battle of Fallen Timbers
“Mad” Anthony Wayne
Arthur St. Clair &lt;AN American History&gt;
This aid group came under fire after the <em>Times</em> of London alleged that its workers had exploited survivors for sex. For 10 points each:
Name this confederation of charitable organizations centered in Oxford, England. Originally centered around combating famine, its other aims include economic justice and, somewhat ironically, gender justice.
Oxfam workers are accused of creating a ‘full-on ‘Caligula’ orgy” including underage prostitutes in this Caribbean country, the site of a devastating earthquake in 2010.
The Oxfam scandal broke a few weeks after the Financial Times published an exposé of the annual charitable dinner held by this British “club.” This charity announced it would disband after revelations that its scantily clad “hostesses” had been subjected to groping and harassment by the all-male attendees.
Oxfam [accept Oxford Committee for Famine Relief or Oxfam International]
Haiti
the Presidents Club Charitable Trust &lt;JK Current Events&gt;
This group was formed after Mary Smith Lockwood published a story about Hannah White Arnett in the <em>Washington Post</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this organization, whose membership Eleanor Roosevelt relinquished after it blocked Marian Anderson from singing at its Constitution Hall.
Eleanor Roosevelt arranged for Marian Anderson to sing instead at this Washington, D.C. venue. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his “I Have a Dream” speech on the steps of this monument overlooking the Reflecting Pool.
The March on Washington was led by this man, who, during World War II, convinced Franklin D. Roosevelt to desegregate the defense industry as head of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
Daughters of the American Revolution
Lincoln Memorial
Asa Philip Randolph
For 10 points each, answer the following about bread and circuses.
As part of this man’s namesake laws, grain was to be given out for free to Rome’s poor. This tribune bitterly hated Titus Annius Milo, whose bodyguards killed him as he was passing by on the Appian Way.
This massive amphitheater was commissioned by Vespasian on the site of Nero’s Domus Aurea to hold gladiator matches, public executions, and other spectacles. Its shell still stands today as an icon of Rome.
This Roman emperor took entertainment one step further by competing as a gladiator, though of course he always won his matches. After his death, the Year of the Five Emperors plunged Rome into chaos.
Publius Clodius Pulcher
Colosseum [or Flavian Amphitheater]
Commodus
These people were the target of the Gordon Riots. For 10 points each:
Name these people who were prevented from holding public office by the Test Act. This religious group is the dominant Christian denomination in Ireland.
This man, as Home Secretary, supported the repeal of the Test Act. As prime minister, this Conservative repealed the Corn Laws and established London’s first police force.
Another supporter of Catholic emancipation was this prime minister, who fought a famous duel with Lord Castlereagh. His four-month-long tenure as prime minister is the shortest ever in British history.
Catholics [or Catholicism]
Robert Peel
George Canning
Answer some questions about George Wallace’s presidential campaign, for 10 points each:
Wallace ran on his segregationist credentials as governor of this state. His “Stand in the Schoolhouse Door” attempted to stop integration of its flagship university, and he cracked down on protesters in its city of Birmingham.
Wallace’s running mate was this leader of the Air Force during World War II. He humiliated the Wallace campaign by threatening to “bomb [the Vietnamese] back to the Stone Age.”
During his campaign, Wallace claimed that the only four-letter words these people did not know were “work” and “soap.” The Haight-Ashbury district was the center of a movement of these people during the Summer of Love.
Alabama [accept University of Alabama]
Curtis LeMay
hippies [do not accept or prompt on any other answers, including hipsters]
A major center of this civilization was Tyre in modern-day Lebanon. For 10 points each:
Name this seafaring civilization of the Eastern Mediterranean. This civilization developed the oldest alphabet in the world.
The name Phoenicia references this main export of the region. It was collected from Murex sea snails, over ten thousand of which were needed to make one gram of this commodity. As a result, it was worth its weight in gold.
This Phoenician colony was legendarily founded by Dido and was destroyed by the Romans after it lost the Third Punic War.
Phoenicians
purple dye
Carthage [or the Carthaginian Empire]
Answer some questions about violent and deadly events in Chicago, for 10 points each:
An event of this type devastated Chicago in 1871 and was apocryphally caused by Catherine O’Leary’s cow kicking over a lantern.
Seven members of Bugs Moran’s North Side Gang were gunned down in this 1929 event by mobsters belonging to Al Capone’s notorious Chicago Outfit.
The Chicago Seven were arrested in the aftermath of this event. Richard Daley ordered the Chicago police to suppress rioters during this event, which was accused of being “Gestapo tactics in the streets of Chicago.”
Great Fire of Chicago
Saint Valentine's Day Massacre
1968 Democratic National Convention [or 1968 DNC; prompt on partial answer]
This ruler died after hitting his head while on his way to watch a game of <em>jeu de paume</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this king whose invasion of Italy in 1494 started the Italian Wars. Savonarola welcomed this ruler’s occupation of Florence, claiming that it would purify the city of its decadence and corruption.
Charles VIII’s invasion of Italy led to the formation of an alliance to oppose him led by Alexander VI, a pope from this family. A member of this family was the inspiration for Machiavelli’s The Prince.
The coalition opposing Charles VIII was named after this city, a maritime power on the Adriatic Sea which was ruled by doges [doe-jiz].
Charles VIII [or Charles the Affable; prompt on Charles]
Borgia family [or Rodrigo Borgia; or Cesare Borgia]
Venice [or Venezia; or League of Venice]
This ruler’s general Avidius Cassius led a brief rebellion after hearing false news that this ruler had died. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman emperor who died in 180 AD. This author of the Meditations was succeeded by his son Commodus.
Marcus Aurelius was the last of this number of so-called “Good Emperors,” during whose reign the Roman Empire was typically stable and prosperous.
Most of the reign of Marcus Aurelius was spent fighting against this confederation of Germanic tribes. Marcus Aurelius wrote his Meditations while on campaign against them.
Marcus Aurelius
five [or Five Good Emperors]
Marcomanni [or the Marcomannic Wars]
This kingdom was ruled by the Wadiyar family. For 10 points each:
Name this southern Indian kingdom. The colonization of this kingdom was held off by its able military commanders Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, who died during the sack of its capital city Seringapatam.
The Kingdom of Mysore fought four wars against this colonizing power, which later took control of all of India.
At the Battle of Pollilur, Tipu Sultan successfully used weapons of this type against the British. Their Mysorean type was the basis for the William Congreve-designed British version that was used at the siege of Fort McHenry.
Mysore
British Empire [or Britain; or United Kingdom; accept British East India Company; anti-prompt on England]
rockets [accept Congreve rockets; prompt on artillery]
In a debate, the incumbent in this election blundered when he asserted that “there is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.” For 10 points each:
Name this presidential election. The Republican ticket of Gerald Ford and Bob Dole failed to be elected in this year.
Ford’s chances at winning the election may have also been hurt by his pardon of this previous president, who resigned in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal.
Ford defeated this fellow Republican for his party’s nomination in the election. In his earlier political career, this man gave a speech supporting Barry Goldwater titled “A Time for Choosing.”
Election of 1976
Richard Nixon
Ronald Reagan
After Bar Kokhba’s revolt, Jews were forbidden from entering this city, which was renamed Aelia Capitolina. For 10 points each:
Name this city destroyed during the Great Jewish Revolt, the capital city of the province of Judea. The Second Temple was destroyed during its sack.
The sack of Jerusalem was carried out by this future Roman emperor, who depicted his Judean conquests on his namesake arch. This son of Vespasian was emperor when Mount Vesuvius erupted.
Titus was succeeded by this younger brother of his, the last ruler in Suetonius’ The Twelve Caesars. His cruelty led to a damnatio memoriae applied after his assassination, after which Nerva became emperor.
Jerusalem
Titus [or Arch of Titus]
Domitian
Answer some questions about people involved in the Shell Crisis of 1915, for 10 points each:
This Liberal was appointed Minister of Munitions in the aftermath of the Shell Crisis and became Prime Minister in 1916. He represented Britain in negotiations during the Paris Peace Conference, and earlier proposed the People’s Budget.
This man, who died when the HMS Hampshire hit a mine, bore the brunt of the blame for the Shell Crisis. A famous poster showing this man pointing directly at the viewer encouraged men to enlist in the military.
The Shell Crisis led to the fall of this man’s government. David Lloyd George succeeded this Liberal prime minister, who had earlier led Britain into World War I.
David Lloyd George [do not accept or prompt on just “Lloyd” or “George”]
Lord Kitchener [accept Herbert Kitchener, 1st Earl of Kitchener]
Herbert Henry Asquith
The United States was debt-free for the only time in history under this president. For 10 points each:
Name this president who fought against the Bank of the United States and uprooted the Cherokees in the Trail of Tears.
Jackson feuded with this president of the Bank of the United States, who also wrote an account of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.
Jackson faced down John C. Calhoun over the issue of nullification, which was caused by the passage of this 1828 tariff act. Calhoun wrote the South Carolina Exposition and Protest opposing this tariff.
Andrew Jackson
Nicholas Biddle
Tariff of Abominations
After a chief of these people was whipped by the captain of the <em>Boyd</em>, almost every member of the ship’s crew was killed and cannibalized. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group indigenous to New Zealand. One of their first contacts with Europeans was with explorer Abel Tasman.
Maori tribes fought a series of clan wars in the early 19th century named for these weapons acquired from the British. This smoothbore weapon became largely obsolete after the invention of the Minie ball.
This 1840 treaty granted Britain control over New Zealand. Under this treaty, the Maori were given the same rights as British subjects.
Maori
muskets [or Musket Wars; prompt on guns or firearms]
Treaty of Waitangi
This organization attempted to assassinate John Major by bombarding 10 Downing Street with mortar shells. For 10 points each:
Name this organization that fought British troops in Northern Ireland during the Troubles.
This member of the IRA was elected as a member of Parliament while he was in prison. He died in Maze Prison less than a month after his election as part of the 1981 Irish hunger strike.
This prime minister of Britain through most of the 1980s refused to give in to demands of the hunger strikers. She was the target of an IRA bomb planted in the Grand Brighton Hotel.
Provisional Irish Republican Army [or IRA]
Bobby Sands
Margaret Thatcher
Hugues de Payens established this military order to protect Christians traveling to the Holy Land. For 10 points each:
Name this military order known for the distinct red crosses displayed on their white robes. Their secrecy and influence led to their downfall in the early 1300s.
This French monarch ordered the arrest of all members of the Knights Templar in his kingdom, resulting in mass executions by burning. The papacy moved to Avignon due to this king’s influence.
This pope moved the seat of the papacy from Rome to Avignon. He eagerly suppressed the Knights Templar along with Philip IV, and died a month after the execution of the last Templar Grand Master, Jacques de Molay.
Knights Templar [or the Templars]
Philip IV [or Philip the Fair; prompt on Philip]
Clement V [prompt on Clement]
Answer the following about using silver to back currency, for 10 points each:
This Democratic Party nominee in the Election of 1896 strongly advocated bimetallism, and gave the ‘Cross of Gold” speech attacking America's gold-only standard.
By the 1930s, this was the only country on the silver standard. This country was forced to pay indemnities to foreign powers in silver after losing conflicts such as the Opium Wars.
Many coins used by China in the 18th and 19th centuries were minted by this country, whose pieces of eight coin became a de facto international standard after it minted massive amounts of them.
William Jennings Bryan
China [or Republic of China; or ROC; or Qing Dynasty; or Zhonghua Minguo; or Zhongguo; or Qing Chao; or Da Qing Diguo]
Spain [or España]
This man formed a namesake legion of cavalry that became part of his reforms. For 10 points each:
Name this Polish nobleman whose death while leading a cavalry charge during the unsuccessful 1779 Siege of Savannah made him a martyr among Americans.
The British were opposed at Savannah by an allied force of this country and the United States. Its king Louis XVI openly funneled men and massive sums of money to help the American cause.
Description acceptable. French forces participating in the siege of Savannah included a regiment of people with this status. Thousands of people acquired this status by flocking to the British after Lord Dunmore’s Proclamation.
Casimir Pulaski
France
free men [or former slaves; or emancipated slaves; prompt on black people; do not accept or prompt on just “slaves” alone, though]
Answer the following about the Velvet Divorce, for 10 points each:
This former country was split into two separate countries in the Velvet Divorce. Its leader Alexander Dubcek attempted to liberalize it in 1968, leading to a Soviet invasion.
The last president of Czechoslovakia was this man, who then served as the first president of the Czech Republic.
The capital of the Czech Republic remained at this former capital of Czechoslovakia, whose “spring” names the aforementioned reforms spearheaded by Dubcek. In 1618, its namesake “defenestration” started the Thirty Years’ War.
Czechoslovakia [do not accept or prompt on Czech Republic or Slovakia]
Václav Havel
Prague [or Praha; accept Prague Spring; accept Defenestration of Prague]
This country’s ruling party, Law and Justice, proposed changes to its Constitutional Tribunal in 2015, sparking a constitutional crisis. For 10 points each:
Name this Central European country. Its president and many senior military officers were killed in a 2010 plane crash over Russia.
Attempts to limit the powers of the Polish court system could violate the principles of Polish membership in this continental organization. The United Kingdom will leave this organization as part of “Brexit.”
The EU has recently attempted to convince this Hungarian prime minister to abandon a law aimed at closing the Central European University. This man currently heads the right-wing political party Fidesz.
Republic of Poland
The European Union [or EU]
Viktor Orbán
<em>Quilombos</em> were settlements founded by these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose legal status was abolished by the 1888 Golden Law.
The Golden Law ended slavery in this South American country, which had the most slaves of any other country in the Americas. Many slaves entered through its port city of Rio de Janeiro.
The Golden Law was passed during the reign of the second king of this name. This name was shared by the only two rulers of the Empire of Brazil.
slaves
Brazil
Pedro [or Peter; accept Pedro II; accept Pedro I]
Some territorial changes made during this meeting gave Russia most of Poland and made Krakow an independent city. For 10 points each:
Name this 1815 meeting of European leaders, lead by Austria’s Klemens von Metternich, that decided the structure of post-Napoleonic Europe.
This French representative at the Congress of Vienna negotiated lenient terms for a defeated France. In his earlier job as Napoleon’s chief diplomat, he demanded bribes from American statesmen in the XYZ affair.
Later in his career, Talleyrand proposed the partition of this country after it gained independence in 1830. This country’s revolution began after a showing of the opera The Mute Girl of Portici and won the Ten Days’ Campaign.
Congress of Vienna
Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand
Belgium
For 10 points each, answer the following about <em>West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish</em>:
Owen Roberts’ critical decision to switch sides from conservative to liberal in the case protected the Supreme Court from this president’s court-packing scheme. This president led the United States through the Great Depression.
This man was Chief Justice when the case was decided. This Chief Justice through the 1930s lost the 1916 election to Woodrow Wilson and also organized the Washington Naval Conference as Warren Harding’s Secretary of State.
The case ended an informal period in Supreme Court history started by this case. During this case’s so-called “era,” the Supreme Court struck down laws that regulated working conditions.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
Charles Evans Hughes
Lochner v. New York [or Lochner era]
During this war, a sniper known as the “White Death” became the deadliest individual soldier in history, killing 505 enemy soldiers. For 10 points each:
Name this 1939 to 1940 war, during which Finland inflicted massive casualties on invading Soviet forces.
The Soviet Union was ill-prepared for the war in part due to this Soviet leader’s purge of all competent military leaders. He led the Soviet Union through World War II.
This commander-in-chief of Finnish forces during the Winter War and the later Continuation War names a defensive line across the Karelian Isthmus meant to protect against Soviet attack.
Winter War
Joseph Stalin [or Ioseb Jugashvili]
Carl Gustaf Emil Mannerheim [or Mannerheim Line]
The president who gave this speech retreated to Camp David for a week before it to consult with a diverse group of prominent leaders from across the country. For 10 points each:
Name this 1979 presidential address which was intended to address the energy crisis by asking Americans to cut down on energy use. It mentions a “crisis of confidence” plaguing the United States.
This president gave the “Malaise” speech. Though his presidency resulted in successes such as the signing of the Camp David Accords, he still lost to Ronald Reagan in the election of 1980.
Carter’s inability to resolve this 1979 to 1981 event contributed to his defeat by Reagan. This event was caused by the United States’ refusal to extradite Mohammed Reza Shah Pahlavi to its namesake country.
“Malaise” speech [accept “crisis of confidence” speech before it is read]
Jimmy Carter
Iran Hostage Crisis
Richard Neville became known as the “Kingmaker” for his role in deposing two kings during this war. For 10 points each:
Name this 15th-century civil war between the Houses of York and Lancaster, which ended with the accession of Henry VII to the throne of England.
Henry VII decisively defeated Richard III in this 1485 battle ending the Wars of the Roses.
In the opening battle of the Wars of the Roses, this king was captured by the forces of Richard, Duke of York. His reign was interrupted by that of Edward IV, who may have ordered his execution in the Tower of London.
Wars of the Roses
Battle of Bosworth Field
Henry VI [prompt on Henry]
The Jewish Banu Qurayza tribe was destroyed after they turned traitor during a siege of this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was the destination of the hijra. This city was successfully defended at the Battle of the Trench.
The Battle of the Trench was a victory in the early expansion of this Abrahamic religion, which is now prevalent in most of the Middle East.
Abu Bakr’s military endeavors included sending Khalid ibn al-Walid to campaign against this empire. Its last emperor Yazdegerd III was defeated by al-Walid at the Battle of Qadisiyyah.
Medina
Islam [accept Sunni Islam]
Sassanid Empire [or Sassanian Empire; prompt on Persian Empire]
This conflict was preceded by a movement led by Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless, who led lower-class people who were slaughtered after wandering into Seljuk territory. For 10 points each:
Name this holy war called for by Urban II at the Council of Clermont. This war ended with the 1099 capture of Jerusalem, whose inhabitants were massacred.
The First Crusade can be traced back to an appeal for help fighting the Seljuks by Alexius Comnenus, a ruler of this empire. Its capital city of Constantinople was conquered in 1453 by the Ottomans.
One of the largest engagements in the First Crusade was the capture of this city on the Orontes River. The Holy Lance was discovered in this city, which was an early stronghold of Christianity.
First Crusade [prompt on Crusades]
Byzantine Empire [accept Eastern Roman Empire; prompt on Roman Empire]
Antioch
Ernest McFarland and Warren Atherton were known as the “fathers” of this law. For 10 points each:
Name this law which gave returning veterans from World War II many benefits, such as zero-interest home loans and one year’s paid unemployment money.
A “new” G.I. Bill passed in 2008 expanding educational benefits was given the name “post-” this event. This worst terrorist attack in United States history led to the passage of the Patriot Act.
One concern of the G.I. bill was that these institutions would prey on unknowledgeable veterans. These institutions are only allowed to receive a maximum of 90% of their revenue from the government.
G.I. Bill [or Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944]
September 11 attacks [or 9/11; or Post-9/11 G.I. Bill; anti-prompt on destruction of the World Trade Center, the attack on the Pentagon, or Flight 93]
for-profit colleges [or fly-by-night colleges]
Mossad conducted a whole bunch of operations on foreign soil. For 10 points each:
A 1972 massacre of 11 Israeli athletes by the group Black September during an Olympic Games in this city prompted Mossad to retaliate with Operation Wrath of God, killing the massacre’s perpetrators and organizers.
After a largely Jewish plane was hijacked and flown to Idi Amin’s Uganda, Mossad helped plan this daring raid that took back the plane without a single hostage death. Yonatan Netanyahu was the only Israeli death during it.
In 1960, Mossad discovered that Adolf Eichmann was living in this country—the destination of many escaped Nazis—and captured him. Eichmann was then living in this country’s capital of Buenos Aires.
Munich [or Munchen]
Entebbe Raid [or Operation Thunderbolt]
Argentina
The victors of this battle were assisted by a large delivery of Russian weapons organized by Nikolai Leontiev. For 10 points each:
Name this 1896 battle against a European power which preserved Ethiopian independence.
This country lost the Battle of Adowa, and as a result, was prevented from colonizing Ethiopia. This country later occupied Ethiopia in the 1930s during the dictatorship of Benito Mussolini.
During the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, Italy broke the Geneva Convention by using this weapon against Ethiopians. Another use of this weapon in a colonial conflict was against the Berbers during the Rif War.
Battle of Adowa
Italy
chemical weapons [accept poison gas; accept mustard gas and other specific chemical agents; accept just gas]
For speaking out against the regime of this country, dissident Georgi Markov was assassinated in London with a ricin pellet shot out of an umbrella gun.
Name this country whose first communist leader was Georgi Dimitrov. It was ruled for most of the Cold War by Todor Zhivkov.
Before becoming leader of Bulgaria, Dimitrov was put on trial for allegedly setting fire in 1933 to this German building. A soldier triumphantly raises a flag atop this building in a 1945 photograph.
This country’s flag was raised atop the Reichstag when it captured Berlin in World War II. This country was the target of Operation Barbarossa.
Bulgaria
the Reichstag
Soviet Union [or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or USSR; or Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik; or CCCP; prompt on Russia]
This ruler defeated his elder brother Robert Curthose at the Battle of Tinchebray. For 10 points each:
Name this English king. The death of his heir, William Adelin, plunged England into a period of civil war between Matilda and Stephen known as the Anarchy.
After Henry I defeated Robert Curthose, he claimed this territory for England. Curthose was a duke of this region in northern France, as was Henry I’s illustrious father, William the Conqueror.
Henry’s claims to Normandy were contested by the sixth king of this name, nicknamed “the Fat.” The first king of this name succeeded Charlemagne and was nicknamed “the Pious.”
Henry I of England [or Henry Beauclerc; prompt on Henry]
Normandy
Louis [or Louis VI; or Louis I; or Louis the Fat; or Louis the Pious]
This building’s first version was built during the Ashikaga period and was destroyed during the Onin War. For 10 points each:
Name this Buddhist temple which was burned to the ground in a 1950 act of arson committed by Hayashi Yoken, who is represented by the character Mizoguchi in a Yukio Mishima novel about its burning.
The Golden Pavilion is located in this former capital of Japan. Though this city was nominally the capital during the Tokugawa shogunate, its shoguns ruled from Edo, or modern-day Tokyo.
Japan’s capital first moved to Kyoto from Nara during this period of greatly increased cultural development ruled by the Fujiwara clan. This period was ended after the Genpei War.
Golden Pavilion [or Kinkaku-ji; accept The Temple of the Golden Pavilion]
Kyoto
Heian Period
This policy was supported by George F. Kennan’s Long Telegram. For 10 points each:
Name this Cold War-era strategy of the United States meant to staunch the spread of communism.
The Long Telegram was written in 1946, during this president’s administration. This president succeeded Franklin Delano Roosevelt and ordered the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The Truman Doctrine, which acted on the principles of containment, supported anti-communist forces in civil wars in these two nations. Name both.
containment
Harry S Truman
Greece and Turkey [or Elliniki Dimokratia for Greece and Turkiye Cumhuriyeti for Turkey]
In a horrific accident in the early days of this country’s space program, one of its cosmonauts burned to death in a chamber with a nearly 100% pure oxygen atmosphere. For 10 points each:
Name this superpower which kicked off the Space Race by launching the first satellite, Sputnik, into orbit.
In 1961, the Soviet Union achieved another milestone in the Space Race when it sent this first human into space.
Gagarin’s spacecraft was given this name. A major Russian research station in Antarctica and the world’s largest subglacial lake are also named after this Russian word for “east.”
Soviet Union [or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or USSR; or Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik; or CCCP; prompt on Russia]
Yuri Gagarin
Vostok [or Vostok 1; or Vostok Station; or Lake Vostok]
This man outlined a seven-step plan to destroy Jews in a lengthy treatise called <em>On the Jews and Their Lies</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose violent views extended to German peasants, whom he encouraged people to “smite, slay, and stab” in his pamphlet Against the Murderous, Thieving Hordes of Peasants.
In a petition with this many demands in it, German peasants pressed the Swabian League for changes, including the abolition of the Todfall death tax. The first written Roman law code consisted of this many tables.
German peasants were inspired to rebel by a revolt of these people just one year earlier. These mounted warriors dominated European warfare for centuries and followed a code of honor called chivalry.
Martin Luther
twelve [or 12; or Twelve Articles; or Twelve Tables]
knights [or the Knights’ Revolt]
Answer some questions about the history of Wyoming, for 10 points each:
Wyoming was nicknamed the “Equality State” because it was the first state to allow this practice, which was allowed nationwide by the 19th Amendment.
This scandal, named for an oil field in Wyoming, occurred when Warren G. Harding’s Secretary of the Interior, Albert Fall, accepted bribes to lease Navy petroleum fields to private companies.
During this event in Wyoming, white miners employed by the Union Pacific Railroad massacred 28 Chinese miners in one of the worst incidents of racial violence in American history.
women’s suffrage [or women voting; prompt on partial answer]
Teapot Dome scandal
Rock Springs Massacre
Answer some questions about the Risorgimento, for 10 points each.
This “sword of Italian unification” and leader of the Red Shirts captured Sicily in the Expedition of a Thousand.
This battle between a Franco-Sardinian alliance and Austria was the last time each army was personally led by a monarch. Its devastation inspired Jean-Henri Dunant to found the Red Cross.
This French emperor pledged support for Italian independence in the Pact of Plombieres. He was later forced to abdicate after the Franco-Prussian War.
Giuseppe Garibaldi
Battle of Solferino
Napoleon III [prompt on Napoleon]
This man headed an organization which demanded the “Three Fs”: fair rent, free sale, and fixity of tenure. For 10 points each:
Name this agitator for Home Rule, whose popularity following the unmasking of the Pigott letter forgery nosedived after his affair with Kitty O’Shea was revealed.
Parnell signed the Kilmainham Treaty granting many rights to tenants along with this British Prime Minister, a powerful Liberal Party politician who often clashed with Benjamin Disraeli.
Parnell was an important leader in this modern-day country in the 19th century, during which it suffered a massive famine caused by the failure of its potato crop.
Charles Parnell
William Gladstone
Ireland
Eight leaders of this region were jailed in late October 2017 on charges of rebellion and sedition after its parliament voted to secede from Spain. For 10 points each:
Name this region of Spain with capital at Barcelona. Its former president, Carles Puigdemont (POOJ-de-mon), fled to Belgium to avoid prosecution.
This Spanish prime minister called the Catalonian independence vote “a clear violation of the laws.” He dissolved the Catalonian parliament after the independence referendum.
This other separatist region voted for independence from Iraq in September 2017. The Peshmerga are a security force in this unofficial region, whose dominant ethnic group also makes up the Turkish political party PKK.
Catalonia [or Catalunya; or Cataluña]
Mariano Rajoy [RAH-hoy] Brey
Kurdistan [or Iraqi Kurdistan; prompt on Kurds or Northern Iraq]
Answer some questions about medieval Egypt, for 10 points each.
This caliphate, named after Muhammad’s daughter, ruled Egypt from the 10th century to 1171. Its caliph al-Hakim the Mad outraged Christians by destroying the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
This military leader overthrew the Fatimids to establish the Ayyubid Caliphate. His victory at the Battle of the Horns of Hattin prompted the Third Crusade.
This Turkish empire conquered Egypt in the 16th century. This empire fell after it lost World War I while fighting as part of the Central Powers.
Fatimid Caliphate
Saladin [or Salah ad-Din]
Ottoman Empire
One man with this surname was known as “the Great Commoner.” For 10 points each:
Give this surname of two British Prime Ministers. The younger of the two became the youngest Prime Minister ever at the age of 24, and led Britain while the French Revolution occurred.
Pitt the Younger came into power after defeating a coalition between Charles James Fox and this man, who has been blamed by historians for losing the American War of Independence.
Both Pitts and Lord North served under this king, the target of the Declaration of Independence. His mental issues may have stemmed from his porphyria.
Pitt [or William Pitt the Elder; or William Pitt the Younger]
Frederick North, Lord North
George III [prompt on George]
Answer the following about questionable fashion decisions from African dictators, for 10 points each:
This man, whose toothbrush mustache only covers the philtrum of his nose, was a leader in the war against Ian Smith’s Rhodesian government. His defeats of rival politician Morgan Tsvangirai have been tinged with corruption.
Mobutu Sese Seko, who always wore a leopard-skin hat, ruled this country for over thirty years, during which time it was named Zaire. It was earlier the private colony of Belgium’s Leopold II.
This leader of the Central African Republic declared himself emperor in an over-the-top coronation ceremony featuring a jewel-encrusted robe that bankrupted his country. He overthrew, then was overthrown by, David Dacko.
Robert Mugabe
Democratic Republic of the Congo [or DRC; prompt on the Congo]
Jean-Bedel Bokassa
Answer some questions about the awful economics of Herbert Hoover’s presidency, for 10 points each:
Hoover has been blamed for his inadequate response to this most severe economic downturn in American history, which began when the stock markets crashed on Black Tuesday.
Hoover’s approval of this tariff act exacerbated the Great Depression. This 1930 act raised tariffs to record highs, and was opposed in a petition signed by over a thousand economists.
This march of thousands of disgruntled veterans demanding the payment of their pension assembled on Anacostia Flats in Washington, D.C., only for Hoover to order them to be driven out with military force.
Great Depression [or the Depression]
Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act [or the Smoot-Hawley Tariff]
Bonus Army
The Stolen Generations were children of these people who were forcibly taken from their families and resettled into white communities. For 10 points each:
Name these indigenous inhabitants of Australia.
In this genocidal 19th century war, British settlers nearly wiped out Tasmania’s Aboriginal population. Settlers formed a human chain to corral Aborigines in this war.
Many Aboriginal people worked as traders or guides during these events. The Eureka Stockade rebellion was fought between people who participated in these events and Australian colonial troops.
Aborigines [or Aboriginal people]
Black War
gold rushes [prompt on partial answer]
For 10 points each, name some things about Napoleonic puppet states.
A state named after this city was ruled by the flamboyant dandy Joachim Murat. This city was previously the center of the Parthenopean Republic, which was opposed by its lazzaroni lower class.
After the Battle of Austerlitz, remnants of the Holy Roman Empire were formed into a confederation named after this river, which forms the modern boundary between France and Germany.
Napoleon put his brother Joseph on the throne of this country after forcing the abdication of its king Charles IV. The Pyrenees separate France from this country, which fought the Peninsular War against French occupation.
Naples [or Napoli; or Kingdom of Naples; accept Regno di Napoli]
Rhine River [or Confederation of the Rhine]
Spain [or España]
Ada of Caria, a ruler of this city, formally adopted Alexander the Great as her son after she surrendered it to him. For 10 points each:
Name this city, home to a famous mausoleum which was one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.
Perhaps the most famous native of Halicarnassus was Herodotus, who was known as “the father of” this profession. Herodotus influenced later members of this profession such as Thucydides and Xenophon.
Herodotus wrote about Artemisia of Halicarnassus, who fought on the side of the Persians in this 480 BC decisive victory for Themistocles.
Halicarnassus [or Mausoleum of Halicarnassus]
historian [accept “history”; accept any answer indicating a person who studies history; prompt on writer]
Battle of Salamis
This leader was an important member of the Free Officers Movement. For 10 points each:
Name this longtime president of Egypt, who overthrew the monarchy and lost the Six-Day War.
Nasser lost the Six-Day War against this country, which gained the Sinai Peninsula, the West Bank, and the Golan Heights after the war. Egypt signed the Camp David Accords with this country.
Nasser’s pan-Arab ideology led to the creation of this short-lived union with Syria, which only lasted from 1958 to 1961.
Gamal Abdel Nasser
Israel
United Arab Republic [or UAR]
Answer the following about the early history of the Southwest, for 10 points each:
This leader of the Pueblo revolt successfully overthrew the Spanish colonial government of New Mexico in 1680. In the aftermath of his revolt, churches were destroyed and traditional kivas were built atop them.
This Native American tribe arrived in the Southwest around 1200 CE. These people, who live in hogans, were forced to go on the Long March and were recruited as “code-talkers” by the Marines during World War II.
The Navajo nation in this state is the largest Indian tribe in the United States. Ancient Pueblo and Anasazi people inhabited the Grand Canyon in this state.
Popé [or Po’pay]
Navajo [or Diné]
Arizona
For 10 points each, answer the following about people who were executed by being burned at the stake.
This teenage girl was burned at the stake in 1431 after she was captured and handed over to the English. This “Maid of Orleans” fought for France in the Hundred Years’ War.
Michael Servetus was burned in 1553 for spreading heresy in Geneva, which was then controlled by this Protestant thinker.
Hugh Latimer, Nicholas Ridley, and Thomas Cranmer were all burned at the stake in this city by Mary I. This city was the site of a later debate between Thomas Huxley and Samuel Wilberforce about Darwin’s theory of evolution.
Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d’Arc; prompt on Joan; prompt on Jeanne]
John Calvin
Oxford [or Oxford Martyrs; or Oxford evolution debate]
The Fawcett Commission investigated conditions in concentration camps during this war. For 10 points each:
Name this war fought between the British and the namesake Afrikaans-speaking group, who fought to maintain the independence of the Transvaal Republic and the Orange Free State.
This future prime minister escaped from Boer captivity during the war. He would later give speeches such as his “finest hour” speech during the Battle of Britain as the leader of Britain during World War II.
A key turning point in the war was this 217-day siege, which turned Robert Baden-Powell into a national hero for holding off the advances of General Cronje’s forces from the namesake town.
Second Anglo-Boer War [do not accept or prompt on the First Boer War]
Winston Churchill
Siege of Mafeking
You are a slave in Ancient Rome. Answer some questions about your life, for 10 points each:
You work on one of these large agricultural plantations, which produced grapes, olive oil, and grain in large quantities. The owner of these estates would live in a villa at the center of them.
You are dissatisfied with your life and decide to join the slave revolt led by this former Thracian gladiator. His forces rappelled down the slopes of Mount Vesuvius to defeat a Roman army led by Gaius Claudius Glaber.
After Spartacus’s army was defeated by Marcus Licinius Crassus, thousands of slaves, including you, were crucified along this most important Roman road, which connected Rome to Brindisi.
latifundia
Spartacus
Appian Way [or the Via Appia]
This country ran internment camps such as New Denver and Tashme. For 10 points each:
Identify this country which forcibly relocated its Japanese population to remote internment camps in its interior, similar to its southern neighbor. It was led during World War II by William Lyon Mackenzie King.
Canadian forces joined with British forces in defending this British colony, which fell to Japanese forces on Christmas 1941. In 1898, the British expanded this colony by leasing the New Territories for 99 years.
Canadians formed the majority of the force which attacked this French port city in 1942. While the attack failed miserably, it gave the Allies valuable experience for the later Normandy landings.
Canada
Hong Kong [or Xianggang]
Dieppe
A Muslim empire located mostly in this modern-day country was started by a jihad started by Usman dan Fodio and continued by his son Muhammad Bello. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country home to many differing ethnic groups like the mostly-Muslim Hausa and Fulani in its north and the mostly-Christian Yoruba and Igbo in its south.
Nigeria’s borders are a colonial creation, drawn by this empire which ruled Nigeria from Lagos. Its other African colonies included modern-day Ghana and Kenya.
Britain ruled Nigeria through existing local rulers, such as emirs in northern Nigeria, in this form of colonial rule. In this system, natives were allowed in the bureaucracy but the highest posts were still dominated by Europeans.
Nigeria
British Empire [or Britain; or United Kingdom; anti-prompt on England]
indirect rule
This kingdom was annexed into the German Empire in 1871. For 10 points each:
Name this Catholic kingdom ruled by the House of Wittelsbachs from Munich.
This Bavarian king, known for his insanity, ordered the construction of Neuschwanstein Castle, which was the inspiration for Disneyland’s Sleeping Beauty Castle.
The Bavarian Soviet Republic was a short-lived attempt at socialism in Bavaria that occurred shortly after this conflict was ended. Germany was forced to reorganize into the Weimar Republic after this war.
Kingdom of Bavaria [or Königreich Bayern]
Ludwig II [or Mad King Ludwig; prompt on Ludwig]
World War I [or WWI; or the Great War]
The father of chemist Josiah Willard Gibbs found a Mende translator for this trial by going to wharves and counting from one to ten in Mende until someone understood him. For 10 points each:
Name this 1841 case which ruled that enslaved Africans who had taken over a Spanish slave ship were free and innocent.
This president was in office during the Amistad case as well as during the Panic of 1837. This vice-president under Andrew Jackson was often called “Old Kinderhook” by his supporters.
This so-called war, fought during Van Buren’s presidency, was resolved by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty and was fought over a border conflict in Maine.
United States v. the Amistad
Martin Van Buren
Aroostook War [or Pork and Beans War]
Name these Renaissance men, for 10 points each.
This goldsmith, soldier, and poet wrote a best-selling memoir in which he claimed to have fired the shot that killed Charles III, Duke of Bourbon during the 1527 sack of Rome. He was also a sculptor who worked for Francis I.
This champion of a heliocentric, Copernican view of the universe, who spent his last years in house arrest, also developed an improved compass for military engineers.
This man articulated the idea of the Renaissance man by saying “a man can do all things if he will.” This gifted athlete and architect wrote a mathematical treatise on perspective, as well as De re aedificatoria.
Benvenuto Cellini
Galileo Galilei [accept either underlined portion]
Leon Battista Alberti &lt;WA, ContHist&gt;
A bomb placed aboard the Air India <em>Kashmir Princess</em> attempted to assassinate this man on his way to the Bandung [bon-DOONG] Conference in 1955. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese Premier and chief diplomat for the Mao Zedong regime. The non-massacre Tiananmen Incident was a 1976 series of protests against the Gang of Four after this man’s death.
John Foster Dulles refused to perform this ceremonial action with Zhou Enlai during negotiations at the 1954 Geneva Conference, famously replying “I cannot.” Zhou reportedly responded with a smooth, “Gallic-like” shrug.
During Nixon’s 1972 visit to China, Zhou and Mao worked with Nixon to produce a communique named for this Chinese city that outlined a process towards renormalization. It also names a particularly unpleasant naval action.
Zhou Enlai
shake hands with him [accept word forms]
Shanghai &lt;EX, WorldHist&gt;
American diplomats in this country have begun suffering hearing loss in what is speculated to be a sonic attack of some sort. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which did not conduct formal diplomatic relations with the United States from 1961 to 2015.
This current President of Cuba shook hands with Barack Obama at Nelson Mandela’s funeral; in 2016, he received Obama during the first American presidential visit to Cuba in eighty-eight years.
This policy was ended by the Obama administration in early 2017, shortly before Trump took office. This semi-official policy gave sanctuary to Cuban refugees who physically arrive on American soil, but denied access to refugees who were stopped before reaching Florida.
Cuba
Raúl Castro [or Raúl Modesto Castro Ruz; prompt on Castro]
wet foot, dry foot [or wet feet, dry feet] &lt;VC, CE&gt;
“Eight years of trouble” in this region were recorded by Robert Louis Stevenson, who described events leading up to a Tripartite Convention that divvied it up in 1889. For 10 points each:
Name this region. A dispute over it in the late 1880s almost erupted into a war between the US and Germany, but a timely cyclone wrecked their fleets before they could fire on each other.
Germany’s foothold in Samoa was short-lived, since an expeditionary force from this modern-day country took it in World War I. It was the smaller of two contributors to the ANZAC forces in that war.
Other writings by Stevenson describe the leper colony maintained on this other Pacific island by the Belgian priest Father Damien de Veuster.
(American or any other part of) Samoa
New Zealand [or Aotearoa]
Moloka‘i &lt;WA, OtherHist&gt;
Worries about arms being stockpiled in this city were prompted by the arrival of the German ship <em>SS Ypiranga</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this city, which was put under the command of Frederick Funston after its capture, which served as a low point in United States-Mexico relations.
After the capture of Veracruz, an egregiously-high 56 of these were given to the soldiers who captured it by the Secretary of the Navy, Josephus Daniels. This is the highest military decoration for a US soldier.
Among those given Medals of Honor was this general, who later gave a short speech titled “war is a racket” and wrote a book of the same title.
Veracruz de Ignacio de la Llave
medals of honor
Smedley Butler &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
This pope allowed Teresa of Ávila to found her own branch of the Discalced Carmelites, who went by the amusing acronym O.C.D. For 10 points each:
Name this pope, who employed Aloysius Lilius and Christopher Clavius to create a system that was implemented by the bull Inter gravissimas.
Eventually, Gregory’s calendar replaced the one named for this Roman leader in all European countries, though some – like Russia – did not swap until 1918.
Many Protestants thought that the Gregorian calendar was an evil Catholic conspiracy, so they didn’t adopt until the mid-18th century. This country replaced a unique calendar with a 30-day-long February created by the king who won the Battle of Narva.
Gregory XIII [prompt on Gregory]
Gaius Julius Caesar [prompt on partial answer; prompt on Julian calendar]
(Kingdom of) Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige] &lt;WA, ContHist&gt;
Women given a feminine version of this title may in some cases be known as <em>alawiyah</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this honorific Arabic term that is generally used to denote any descendant of Muhammad. Not coincidentally, it is a pretty common last name.
In some places, male sayyids may be known by this general Arabic word for a leader. Great Islamic leaders may be known as this term “al-Mu’mineen,” translating as “Commander of the Faithful.”
By definition, sayyids are from Banu Hashim, whose members are called “Hashemites” in English. Thus, all royalty of this “Hashemite” Middle Eastern kingdom led by Abdullah II are sayyids, many many times over.
sayyid [or said; or sayyidah; accept regional variants such as syed or sa’idah, and stick to the “vowel rule”]
emir [or amir; accept Amir al-Mu’mineen]
(Hashemite Kingdom of) Jordan &lt;WA, Rel&gt;
The ability to pay <em>gurudakshina</em> determined whether someone attended one of these institutions at Taxila during the day or night. For 10 points each:
Name these institutions. Another important one of these institutions in India was at the Nalanda monastery, which is estimated to have housed several thousand students at a time.
This former capital of Timur was a center for learning in Central Asia. Ulugh Beg constructed one of the three madrasahs in this city’s Registan Square, as well as an observatory.
Seowon [suh-wun] were private schools constructed for the education of this class, which was wealthier than the sangmin [sahng-meen]. A genealogy book called a jokbo [choke-boh] could be used to prove one’s membership in this Korean class.
universities [accept schools or similar answers]
Samarkand
yangban &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
The mythical birth of the namesake of this dynasty is described in the <em>Chronicle of Fredegar</em>. For 10 points each:
This dynasty gained control of much of what is now northern France after defeating Syagrius at the Battle of Soissons. This dynasty was founded by Clovis I and preceded the Carolingian Dynasty.
The beast that supposedly fathered Merovech, namesake of the Merovingians, was an aquatic one of these animals with five horns. Athletes leaping over these animals was a common theme in Minoan iconography.
The holders of this prime minister-like position gained increasing power over the Merovingian rulers until one holder, Pepin the Short, founded the Carolingian Dynasty with papal support. Charles Martel held this position when he won the Battle of Tours for Childeric III.
Merovingian Dynasty [or Merovings]
bulls
mayor of the palace or majordomo &lt;AF, ContHist&gt;
This man, who opposed his country’s secularization of Catholic schools, spent fifteen years living in an American embassy after being released from prison. For 10 points each:
Name this Hungarian cardinal who was convicted in a show trial after being accused of attempting to steal the Crown of St. Stephen during the Hungarian Revolution.
Budapest, Hungary is home to a surprisingly large contingent of this Chinese Buddhist community. Five monks from this school famously were dispersed through China, where they helped spread their style of kung fu.
This other denomination historically made inroads into Hungary via Saxon settlers. Gustavus Vasa made his kingdom accept this denomination with the help of the Petri brothers.
József Mindszenty [or József Pehm]
Shaolin
Lutheranism [prompt on Protestantism] &lt;VC, Rel&gt;
Edward Ferrero’s United States Colored Troops suffered heavily in the aftermath of this battle, since they were inadequately trained for an experimental assault. For 10 points each:
Name this 1864 Civil War battle that Ulysses Grant called “the saddest affair I have witnessed in this war.” It took place during the Petersburg campaign.
The Battle of the Crater was the brainchild of Ambrose Burnside, who became the namesake of a bridge in this 1862 Maryland battle in which his soldiers failed several times to cross said bridge. It was the bloodiest single day in the Civil War, though Gettysburg claimed more lives.
After his defeat at Fredericksburg, Burnside attempted to revive the morale of his men by planning this aborted offensive. It was named after the poor weather that prevented Burnside’s men from crossing the Rappahannock.
Battle of the Crater
Battle of Antietam [accept Battle of Sharpsburg]
Mud March &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
These items were called “candida” when treated with chalk and were used by those seeking political office, giving English its word “candidate.” For 10 points each:
Identify these items that could be used by Roman women until replaced by the stola by the first century BC.
A toga praetexta [pry-TEX-tah], worn primarily by freeborn boys before reaching manhood, contained a stripe of this color, often associated with royalty. Porphyrogénnētos was a Byzantine epithet meaning “born in [this color],” which in antiquity was primarily produced from Murex sea snails.
This Roman writer described the process of creating Tyrian purple dye in his most famous work. This man died while attempting to save people at Stabiae [stah-bee-eye].
togas
purple [accept Tyrian purple, Phoenician purple, royal purple, or imperial purple; accept indigo since the major component of Tyrian purple dye was the compound 6,6-dibromoindigo]
Pliny the Elder [prompt on partial answer] &lt;AF, Ancient&gt;
This city was a free port governed under UN auspices from 1947 until 1954. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose status was finally settled by the 1975 Treaty of Osimo. It was identified as the southern endpoint of the Iron Curtain in a speech by Winston Churchill.
This man actively sought to acquire Trieste for his country after World War II. He is more famous for being the first Secretary-General of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Tito sought to unite all South Slavic peoples in this state, which came close to joining with Bulgaria before Tito’s split with Stalin. This state’s breakup in the 1990s created countries like Slovenia, Serbia, and Croatia.
Trieste
Josip Broz Tito
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia &lt;AF, ContHist&gt;
At the start of the 20th century, only 15 percent of the world’s population was urbanized. For 10 points each:
In 1900, this city was the world’s most populous, having eclipsed Beijing during the 1800s. Its has its humble origins as a small Roman settlement in Britain, which was sacked by Boudica.
This early “global city” grew from a population of under 1 million in 1900 to having way more people than today’s London in its “Metro” region, which includes a city that Manuel Quezon founded to replace it as the capital.
This historian reflected on the massive growth of cities in The City in History. Another of his books argues that the invention of clocks by medieval monks was the key spark of the Industrial Revolution.
London
Manila [accept Metro Manila]
Lewis Mumford (the latter book is Technics and Civilization) &lt;WA, OtherHist&gt;
Cotton wasn’t only cultivated in the American South. For 10 points each:
Sumerian sources record cotton coming from Meluhha, which is believed to refer to this civilization. It traded through ports like Lothal and was the ancient world’s only producer of lapis lazuli.
The word for cotton in German, Baumwolle [BOWM-voh-luh], is a relic of the medieval European belief that it was derived from plants in India that produced these animals.
Soviet efforts to become a cotton exporter had devastating effects on this body of water, which climatologist Aleksandr Voeikov [vuh-YAY-koff] called a “mistake of nature.” The inland delta region of Khwarezm formerly bordered this body of water.
Indus Valley Civilization [accept Harappan Civilization]
sheep [accept lambs]
Aral Sea &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
Five wards of this city, each subdivided into a group of “hundreds,” sent officials to its <em>veche</em> [VYECH-yeh] assembly. For 10 points each:
Name this medieval city that was the center of a republic in the vicinity of Lake Ladoga. Alexander Nevsky led this city to a great victory over the Teutonic Knights near the Neva River.
This other river also played a prominent role in early Russian history, as its shores were home to a nomadic confederation of the Bulgar peoples. In 1925, its city of Tsaritsyn was renamed Stalingrad.
Some members of the Volga Bulgars migrated south under the great khan Asparukh, settling in the region of modern-day Bulgaria. They left after being defeated by this Turkic empire whose rulers adopted Judaism in 740.
Novgorod [accept Veliky Novgorod or Novgorod the Great]
Volga River
Khazars [or Khazar Khaganate; or Khazaria] &lt;RY, ContHist&gt;
A 70th anniversary celebration of the placement of this item took place in Omaha in 1939. For 10 points each:
Name this item placed by Leland Stanford, which now lies in the Cantor Arts Center at Stanford University.
The placement of the golden spike marked the completion of this transport route at Promontory Summit. This route was created by the meeting of the Union Pacific and the Central Pacific lines.
Three years after the completion of the railroad, a scandal broke out regarding this company involved in the Union Pacific Railroad. The scandal surrounding this company grew to include Vice President Schuyler Colfax.
the golden spike
Transcontinental Railroad
Credit Mobilier of America &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
This organization’s roles would include replacing “false individual consciousness” with “class consciousness” among the masses. For 10 points each:
Identify this proposed type of organization. It would consist of professional revolutionaries, whose roles in the “political campaign” and “economic campaign” are explained in a 1902 pamphlet.
This 1902 pamphlet by Vladimir Lenin promotes the “vanguard party” as a solution to its central question, which asks how Marxism should be spread among the working class.
Lenin’s ideal vanguard was modeled on the Social Democrats of this modern-day country, which most communists thought have the first proletarian revolution. Both writers of The Communist Manifesto were from here.
vanguard party [or revolutionary vanguard]
What is to be Done?
Germany [or Deutschland] &lt;WA, PhilO&gt;
This country developed a “dictation test” to exclude unwanted immigrants without outright banning them in order to avoid angering Great Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this country that aimed to keep itself “white” through early 20th-century immigration policies and the genocidal “Black War.” Through the 1901 Laborers Act, it deported the majority of its sugar cane workers.
Patrick Moran, the Archbishop of Sydney, fought Australia’s attempts to exclude immigrants from this country. The US passed a similarly-intended “exclusion act” in 1881.
This Prime Minister passed the Migration Act 1966, which dismantled the last of the White Australia policy and anti-Chinese restrictions. In an unrelated conspiracy theory, some alleged that a Chinese submarine picked him up when he disappeared in 1967.
Australia
China [or Zhongguo; accept the Qing dynasty, I guess]
Harold (Edward) Holt &lt;WA, OtherHist&gt;
About half of the population of this entity consists of internally displaced refugees. For 10 points each:
Give the common name for this “Democratic Federation of Northern Syria.” Currently unrecognized, this pluralistic, multiethnic state has a secular law code that proclaims absolute equality for women.
Rojava is organized into administrative subunits designated with this term, such as the Jazira one. Switzerland consists of a confederation of subunits denoted by this term.
Among the many non-Muslim minorities in Rojava are this Christian ethnic group. Their state, which is governed from Yerevan, has fought Azerbaijan in several conflicts over exclaves.
Rojava
cantons
Armenians [or Hayk] &lt;WA, Geo&gt;
This politician gave one speech because “I figured you needed to know what a real Texas accent sounds like.” For 10 points each:
Name this former Governor of Texas who gave the keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention, in which she said that George Bush was “born with a silver foot in his mouth.”
In this man’s first nomination acceptance speech, he mentioned a “Golden Age” that would come with the eradication of “war, poverty, and tyranny.” This two-time Democratic presidential candidate declared in a later speech “eggheads of the world, unite” in reference to critiques of his intellectualism.
This man gave the “Cross of Gold” speech at the 1896 Democratic National Convention and defended the Bible in court in the Scopes Monkey trials.
(Dorothy) Ann Willis Richards
Adlai Ewing Stevenson II
William Jennings Bryan &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
This man’s book <em>A Memory of Solferino</em> is about when he organized relief for soldiers who were wounded in that battle at the nearby city of Castiglione. For 10 points each:
Name this man who, together with Frederic Passy, was awarded the first ever Nobel Peace Prize for his humanitarian efforts in 1901.
Dunant’s experience at Solferino inspired him to found this humanitarian organization. Its namesake symbol is derived from the flag of Switzerland.
Solferino was a victory for an alliance of France and Sardinia, which was at the time led by this king, who later became the first king of a unified Italy.
Henry Dunant [or Jean-Henri Dunant]
(International Committee of the) Red Cross
Victor Emmanuel II [or Vittorio Emanuele II; prompt on partial answer] &lt;RY, ContHist&gt;
This man first came to power with the help of young army officers called <em>tenentes</em> [teh-NEN-chees]. For 10 points each:
Name this President of Brazil in power from 1930 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1954. His second presidency was ended with his suicide in Catete Palace.
Catete Palace is in this Brazilian city where Petrobras, founded during Vargas’s second term, is also headquartered. An assassination attempt on Carlos Lacerda, a critic of Vargas’s rule, occurred in this city’s Copacabana neighborhood.
Vargas’s first presidency was preceded by the café com leite [cah-FEH com LAY-chee] period where power was largely held at the local level by people with this title. A regime named for people with this title ruled Greece from 1967 to 1974.
Getúlio Vargas
Rio de Janeiro
colonel [accept coronel] &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
A Dutch explorer named Adrian Block found one of these places located on top of what would later be called Wyllys Hyll. For 10 points each:
Name this type of location where a Royal Charter was hidden in 1662. The specific location of this type is now featured on the state coin of the colony in which the Charter was hidden.
That tree, the Charter Oak, became a symbol of this future state. Block’s discovery of the Charter Oak is considered one of the founding events of this state’s capital, Hartford.
The Royal Charter of Connecticut was hidden in the Charter Oak to hide it from this man. This colonial administrator was overthrown along with his boss James II of England in 1689.
tree [accept oak tree]
Connecticut
Sir Edmund Andros &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
A Nazi client state of these people was ruled by the priest Jozef Tiso. For 10 points each:
What ethnic group’s language was codified by Ľudovít Štúr [LOO-doh-veet SH’TUR] in the 19th century? Napoleon’s war against the Third Coalition ended with a peace signed in Pressburg, which is now the capital of the country named for them.
Before it was Slovakia, the region was known as the “upper” part of this country. The Magyars live in this country, which in 1867 became part of a dual monarchy with Austria.
Slovakia’s national anthem is about lightning striking over this mountain range, which includes the mountain Krivan, a Slovak national symbol. It straddles Slovakia’s border with Poland.
Slovak people [or Slovaks; or Slovaci; accept Slovakia]
Hungary [or Magyarorszag]
Tatra mountains [or Tatras; or Tatry] &lt;RY, ContHist&gt;
The Chinese intellectual Liang Qichao [lyong chee-chow] published a book about the “History of the Loss of” this country, written by an exiled revolutionary. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country that was called “Annam,” meaning “pacified south,” under French colonial rule. Its current, communist, government was founded by Ho Chi Minh.
This last ruling dynasty of Vietnamese emperors was founded by Gia Long [zah long]. Its last emperor, Bao Dai, abdicated power to the communists.
The Nguyen dynasty ruled from this city in central Vietnam. It was earlier called Phu Xuan [foo swan], when it served as capital for the Nguyen Lords and the Tây Sơn [tie sun] dynasty.
Vietnam
Nguyen [win] dynasty
Huế [hway] &lt;RY, WorldHist&gt;
After his execution, a pouch of this good was found in the cell of Sir Walter Raleigh with a Latin inscription saying that “It was my companion at that most miserable time.” For 10 points each:
Name this good that Raleigh helped popularize in England. John Rolfe was the first person to grow this crop commercially at Jamestown.
This man expressed his dislike of tobacco in A Counterblaste to Tobacco. This man adopted a rose dimidiated [dim-MID-ee-ated] with a Scottish thistle as his personal badge to represent his simultaneous holding of two posts.
Tobacco was often traded in a pattern resembling this shape, flowing from Virginia to the Caribbean, then to the Britain. Rum, molasses, and sugar were all key components in an Atlantic trade pattern that took this shape.
tobacco
James I [or James VI of Scotland; prompt on James]
triangle (trade) [or triangular trade, etc.] &lt;AF, BritHist&gt;
Adam Czerniakow [CHAIRN-yah-kov] took a cyanide pill when this district’s population was deported to Treblinka as part of a <em>Grossaktion</em> in 1942. For 10 points each:
Name this district within a European city, where an uprising was crushed by troops under Jurgen Stroop.
The Warsaw Ghetto Uprising was crushed by troops of the armed, Waffen division of this group. Heinrich Himmler was the leader of this Nazi paramilitary organization.
The Nazis controlled the ghetto in this third-largest Polish city through Chaim Rumkowski [KHA-eem room-KOFF-skee], a Jewish leader who is remembered for giving a speech exclaiming “Fathers and mothers: Give me your children!”
Warsaw Ghetto [prompt on Warsaw]
SS [or Schutzstaffel]
Łódź [wooj] &lt;RY, ContHist&gt;
The Western Federation of Miners was called the “mining section” of this organization until splitting off from this organization, leading to riots in Butte [byoot], Montana. For 10 points each:
Name this large union. Members of this group sometimes went by the nickname “Wobblies.”
The IWW’s policy was to have an “open union” in order to achieve a “closed” one of these things. A workplace that mandates union membership is called a “closed” [this term].
The IWW’s collectivist motto claimed that this sort of thing “to one” is the same as this sort of thing “to all.”
IWW [or Industrial Workers of the World]
(closed) shop
an injury &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
Ancient Greek and Chinese sources give this city’s name as Saketa. For 10 points each:
Name this [emphasize] non-Southeast Asian city, which is the home of the hero of both Thailand’s national epic Ramakien and the Khmer epic Reamker [ree-um-KAY]. It lends its name to an early modern Thai kingdom.
Ayodhya lends its name to Ayutthaya [ah-yoo-tah-YAH], whose ruler Naresuan defeated Prince Mingyi Swa of the Toungoo Dynasty in a duel on the back of one of these animals. Often guided by howdahs, they are a common symbol of power in Southeast Asia.
The Lan Xang [lahn sahng] kingdom, whose name refers to a million elephants, was based in this modern-day country where evidence of ancient trade is found on the Plain of Jars.
Ayodhya [do not accept or prompt on “Ayutthaya”]
Asian elephants
Laos [or Lao People’s Democratic Republic] &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
Locals in this country called <em>harkis</em> fought as irregular troops on the side of the French. For 10 points each:
Name this North African country and former French colony, which gained independence in the 1960s under the leadership of the FLN.
This 1962 agreement brought an end to the violence in Algeria and granted it independence.
This name was given to Algerians of French descent who fled the colony and returned to France during and after Algeria’s war for independence.
(People’s Democratic Republic of) Algeria [or Algérie; or al-Jaza’ir]
Évian Accords
pied-noirs [pyay-nwarr] [accept black feet or black foots] &lt;WA, ContHist&gt;
You are a corporation attempting to dodge taxes – legally, of course. For 10 points each:
An easy way to do this in the US is to simply incorporate in this state, like most US corporations. This Atlantic state comprises most of the Delmarva peninsula.
Before 2015, you might have used a scheme called a “Double Irish” with a “sandwich” in this country, where you would locate a shell corporation. The demonym for this country names a “disease” that is equivalent to the widely-identified “resource curse.”
You’ve also got your eyes on this territory, whose statutory corporate tax rate of 10 percent has led it to have 60,000 registered corporations – two for every resident. It is also home to a growing population of Barbary macaques.
Delaware
The Netherlands [or Holland; or Nederlands; accept Dutch disease]
Gibraltar &lt;WA, Other&gt;
This man may have coined the phrase “speak truth to power,” having co-authored a pamphlet with that title for the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker activist group. For 10 points each:
Name this civil rights leader who, with A. Philip Randolph, organized the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.
This state’s Senator Strom Thurmond called Rustin a “Communist, draft-dodger, and homosexual,” having Rustin’s arrest record entered into the Congressional Record. William Tecumseh Sherman devastated its state capital of Columbia.
Thurmond’s “Dixiecrat” party, which he led during a presidential run, was officially called by a name combining this two-word concept with “Democratic Party.”
Bayard Rustin [BYE-erd RUST-in]
South Carolina [or SC]
states’ rights (Democratic Party) &lt;RY, AmHist&gt;
Louis IX of France led two of these campaigns, but was rather unlucky, being caught for ransom in one of them and dying in Tunisia during the other. For 10 points each:
Name these expeditions, the first of which was called by Urban II at the Council of Clermont.
The kings of Jerusalem styled themselves defenders of this church, whose possession by “unclean nations” was noted in Urban II’s address. This church is believed to be the location of both Golgotha and Jesus’s tomb.
The last Crusader state to fall was the “County” named for this modern-day Lebanese city; the state was actually led from Tartus for the first seven years of its existence by Raymond IV, Count of Toulouse, and encompassed cities like Acre.
Crusades
Church of the Holy Sepulchre
(County of) Tripoli &lt;WA, OtherHist&gt;
The motorboats HMS <em>Toutou</em> and HMS <em>Mimi</em> defeated two much larger ships to gain control of this body of water from the Germans in World War I. For 10 points each:
Name this body of water that the Allies took to secure the western border of German East Africa. Earlier, Henry Morton Stanley encountered David Livingstone at Ujiji on its shores.
This colony provided much of the manpower for Britain’s attack on German East Africa, comprising the majority of the forces in the early battles of Kilimanjaro and Tanga. After the war, forces largely drawn from this colony fought in the Third Anglo-Afghan War.
This other country’s Force Publique fought Germany throughout the Great Lakes region, though that group is better known for brutally treating rubber workers in this country’s colony in the Congo.
Lake Tanganyika
British India [or British Raj]
Belgium &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
The origins of the “Sea Peoples” who harassed the Middle East in the 12th century BC aren’t clear. For 10 points each:
One hypothesis hold that some Sea Peoples were fleeing the collapse of this matriarchal civilization on Crete, whose decline is linked to the Thera event.
Among the recorded groups of Sea Peoples, one has been etymologically linked to this island, whose ancient inhabitants built nuraghi [noo-RAH-ghee] fortresses. The Romans governed this island from the port of Caralis.
A passage from this writer about Lydians wandering due to famine has been linked by some scholars to the Bronze Age Collapse and the Sea Peoples. He also wrote of a dialogue between Lydia’s king Croesus and Solon of Athens.
Minoan civilization
Sardinia (Caralis is modern-day Cagliari)
Herodotus &lt;WA, Ancient&gt;
Despite having no experience farming, some members of the Zionist BILU [bee-loo] organization emigrated to Ottoman Palestine in 1882 to become farmers. Answer some questions about why they did this, for 10 points each.
They were certainly running the hell away from anti-Semitism in this empire, where pogroms targeted Jews throughout the Pale of Settlement in cities like Kiev, Odessa, and Kishinev.
The spike in pogroms that they fled is often frequently linked to the assassination of this monarch by members of the People’s Will.
Not coincidentally, in the same year, Russia passed this repressive set of laws to restrict Jewish settlement in the Pale and forbid Jews from engaging in business on Sundays.
Russian Empire [or Rossiyskaya Imperiya]
Tsar Alexander II
May Laws &lt;AF, ContHist&gt;
The target of one policy in this state gave it a name meaning “The place where they cried.” For 10 points each:
Name this state, whose representative Samuel Worcester served as a plaintiff in a Supreme Court case regarding its native Cherokee population.
The removal of the Cherokee began with a two-year grace period followed by a forced removal effort overseen by this man, who was nicknamed “Old Fuss and Feathers.”
A major impetus that got the government to consider Cherokee removal was this sort of event in northern Georgia, which began in 1829. An event of this type spawned the Barbary Coast district in San Francisco.
Georgia [accept Worcester v. Georgia]
Winfield Scott
gold rush &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
This person has faced criticism over hunting trips, such as killing nine Romanian bears in 2004 and hunting elephants in Botswana in 2012. For 10 points each:
Name this person, who orchestrated a transition to democracy that ended in a 1978 constitutional referendum, by which this person became monarch.
Juan Carlos’s wife Sofia is from the royal houses of Denmark and this other country. Elizabeth II’s husband, Prince Philip, was also born into the royal families of Denmark and this other country.
Queen Sofia is the sister of the deposed final king of Greece, who has this first name. It’s not “Flavius,” but it is also the common name of the first Christian Roman Emperor.
Juan Carlos I of Spain
Greece [or Hellas; or Hellenic Republic]
Constantine [or Konstantinos] &lt;WA, ContHist&gt;
A musical automaton of a tiger mauling a European man was discovered in this ruler’s capital after its capture by the British. For 10 points each:
Name this “Tiger of Mysore” who, along with his father, resisted the British East India Company in four wars. His defeat at the Battle of Seringapatam ended Mysore’s independence.
The armies of Mysore employed weapons of this type, sometimes with blades attached, at battles like Seringapatam. Their “red glare” is described in “The Star-Spangled Banner.”
Allying with Tipu Sultan against the British was an important goal of one of this ruler’s campaigns, during which he addressed his troops from a point where “forty centuries of history look down on us.”
Tipu Sultan
rockets [accept “and the rockets’ red glare”; prompt on bombs or similar answers]
Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either underlined part] &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
John Burgoyne preceded the Saratoga campaign by recapturing this location, which had been commanded by Philip Schuyler, who ignored warnings about superior artillery on the nearby Mount Defiance. For 10 points each:
Name this location, whose commander was ordered to “Come out you old Rat!” by the leader of a number of Vermont militiamen.
This Vermont native and leader of the Green Mountain Boys captured Ticonderoga with the aid of Benedict Arnold and threatened to lead Vermont in seceding if New York didn’t recognize its independence.
After capturing Fort Ticonderoga, Allen was captured by Guy Carleton at Longue-Pointe while attempting to take this city. Allen’s attempt to capture this city was preceded by his occupation of the nearby Fort St. John.
Fort Ticonderoga
Ethan Allen
Montreal &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
<em>Åsetesrett</em> [AW-seh-TESS-ret] is a long-standing law in Norway governing access to this resource. For 10 points each:
Identify this resource that the country’s rugged terrain keeps in short supply. The scarcity of arable forms of this resource may have been a contributing factor in spurring Vikings raids.
One of the largest Viking land acquisitions was this region established by the treaty between Alfred and Guthrum. Its southwestern border roughly followed the Roman Watling Street.
Magnus Barefoot brought this island, the southernmost in the Kingdom of the Isles, under direct control of the Norwegian crown in the late 11th century. The Tynwald, the legislative body of this island, claims that it is the world’s oldest existing parliament and has its roots in its earliest Scandinavian settlements.
arable land
Danelaw
Isle of Man &lt;AF, BritHist&gt;
This man successfully argued the case <em>Chambers v. Florida</em> at age 32, fourteen years before he argued his most famous case that challenged the “separate but equal” doctrine. For 10 points each:
Name this first African-American Supreme Court Justice. Prior to being nominated by Lyndon Johnson, this man had served as Solicitor General and as the executive director of the NAACP’s Legal Defense Fund.
Prior to serving as executive director of the Legal Defense Fund, Marshall worked as a lawyer in this city. Marshall is the namesake of a law library in this city that is located near its Inner Harbor neighborhood.
Clarence Thomas, who was nominated to replace Thurgood Marshall, had his nomination hearing marred by sexual harassment allegations from this woman. Thomas referred to the media frenzy surrounding this woman’s testimony as a “high-tech lynching.”
Thurgood Marshall
Baltimore, Maryland
Anita Hill &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
The Zanj Rebellion was begun by people of this type from Sub-Saharan Africa in the late 9th century CE around Basra. For 10 points each:
Identify these people. The Mamluk Dynasty was founded by this type of people, who could be freed with a contract called a mukataba.
These institutions, common throughout the Muslim world, were largely staffed by slaves, with Circassians being among the most preferred. The Valide Sultan and the Kizlar Agha, or “Chief Black Slave,” were the most important people in the Ottoman institution of this type.
This region, a former home of the Sultans of Oman, was a primary hub for the later Arab slave trade. Tippu Tip was a powerful slave trader who operated out of this region.
slaves
harem
Zanzibar &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
While he was safely in Avignon, Pope Clement VI granted remission of sins to all who died of this event. For 10 points each:
Name this event that interrupted the Hundred Years’ War by killing about a third of Europe’s population.
This woman decided that the height of the Black Death was the perfect time to make a pilgrimage to Rome; she survived, and lived out her life there. A later countrywoman, Queen Christina, said “I prefer to be counted among the sensible rather than the saints” and dismissed this woman’s revelations.
This man also didn’t think highly of Saint Bridget, and criticized teachings involving Bridget’s “little prayers.” This man wrote the treatise On the Jews and Their Lies.
Black Death [or bubonic plague in Europe, etc.]
Saint Bridget of Sweden [or Birgitta Birgersdotter]
Martin Luther &lt;WA, ContHist&gt;
These two people compiled stories from Southern newspapers into their work <em>American Slavery as It Is</em>, aided by one of their husbands, Theodore Weld. For 10 points each:
Name this pair of abolitionists. These people also became early inspirations for the women’s suffrage movement after publishing “Letters on the Equality of the Sexes.”
Sarah Grimké’s abolitionist beliefs were inspired by a trip to Philadelphia with her father in which she encountered this religious group. Also known as the “Society of Friends,” they were known for their relatively liberal views on slavery and women’s equality.
This newspaper published “Letters on the Equality of the Sexes” in the same year it announced that it would “redeem woman as well as man from a servile to an equal condition,” adding abolition to its initial purpose. It was founded by William Lloyd Garrison.
Sarah Moore and Angelina Emily Grimké [accept Grimké sisters]
Quakers
The Liberator &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
Answer the following about anecdotes from classical coups, for 10 points each.
This author inserted an anecdote about a broken rope into his account of the failed coup of Cylon, which is found in a work that pairs biographies of Greeks and Romans.
Several authors write that this founder of Lydia’s Mernad dynasty decided to kill King Candaules [can-“DOW”-leez] and seize the throne after he got the hots for the king’s wife Tudo. He shares his name with a shepherd mentioned in Plato’s Republic.
This Roman emperor is recorded as lamenting “What an artist dies in me” before having his courier kill him during a coup. He probably didn’t actually play the fiddle while Rome burned.
Plutarch [or Ploutarchos] (the work is Parallel Lives)
Gyges of Lydia
Nero (Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus) &lt;WA, Ancient&gt;
A physicist was chosen to be this country’s first post-Communist leader in 1990; he proceeded to become an authoritarian dictator until ousted in the 2005 Tulip Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the US maintained an air base at Manas from 2001 to 2004.
The air base in Kyrgyzstan was built as part of the war in Afghanistan against this Islamic fundamentalist organization, which ran Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. Their name means “students.”
This other country spent millions of dollars in the 2000s renovating Central Asian airbases to expand its military presence. This country lost a 1962 war with its northern neighbor along the McMahon [mac-MAN] line.
Kyrgyzstan [or Kyrgyz Republic; or Kirghiz Respublikasi]
(the) Taliban [accept Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan]
(Republic of) India [or Bharat Ganarajya] &lt;WA, WorldHist&gt;
Leonard Woolley gave the name “Al-Mina” to an outpost he excavated that was founded by traders from Euboea. For 10 points each:
The site appears to have been abandoned during the construction of a city named for this king to serve as the port of Antioch, which he also founded and made his capital. This empire-builder built a second capital, this one named for himself, on the Tigris River.
Woolley was disappointed that the site was from around 800 BC – too young for his tastes, since it wasn’t from the “age” named for this common alloy of tin and copper.
Woolley cemented his Bronze Age cred by excavating a “Great” building of this type in the city of Ur.
Seleucus Nicator [or Seleucus I]
Bronze (Age)
ziggurat [prompt on temple] &lt;WA, Ancient&gt;
This man won the hearts of millions on the internet by explaining the basic mechanism of nuclear reactors on a widely-watched YouTube clip. For 10 points each:
Name this current world leader, who is also the son of a former Prime Minister from Quebec.
During controversy over Guantanamo bay detainee Omar Khadr, Trudeau noted that civil liberties protections should be enforced “even when it is uncomfortable.” In Canada, civil liberties are guaranteed by a “Canadian Charter” named for these two things.
The idea that the Charter of Rights and Freedoms is open to re-interpretation is a doctrine named for one of these objects. In US law, a metaphor of one of these non-edible objects is used to describe invalid, illegally obtained evidence.
Justin Trudeau
rights AND freedoms [specific words required; accept Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms]
tree [accept living tree doctrine; accept fruit of the poisoned tree] &lt;WA, Other&gt;
This work ends with a prophecy of the eventual supremacy of its home country over Rome. For 10 points each:
Name this Ge’ez [GHEE-ezz] text that details the travels of Queen Makeda of Sheba to Jerusalem and how the Ark of the Covenant came to Ethiopia.
According to the Kebra Nagast, the first ruler of this name is the son of the Queen Makeda who unwittingly brings the Ark to Ethiopia. The second ruler of this name founded Addis Ababa and defeated an Italian force at the Battle of Adwa.
This wise ruler of Israel is Menelik I’s father in the Kebra Nagast and is the namesake of the most recent Ethiopian royal dynasty. This Biblical king supposedly ordered a baby cut in half to determine its true mother.
Kebra Nagast [accept Kebra Negast]
Menelik
King Solomon [or Shlomo] &lt;AF, WorldHist&gt;
This man warned that if Congress did not support Franklin Roosevelt, there would be a “revolution that makes the French Revolution look silly.” For 10 points each:
Name this “radio priest” who then went on to oppose FDR. He was based out of the National Shrine of the Little Flower in Detroit.
Coughlin made his “French Revolution” comment in reference to members of Congress not backing this set of FDR policies, which included the creation of the Civilian Conservation Corps.
As Coughlin’s rhetoric became increasingly anti-semitic in the 1930s, he drew of ire of many powerful Church leaders, including this Archbishop of New York, who worked with Joseph Kennedy to get Coughlin kicked off the airwaves.
Father Charles Coughlin
New Deal
Cardinal Francis Spellman &lt;LS, AmHist&gt;
The Romance dialect of one of these kingdoms is not spoken much today, whereas the other evolved into the most widely-spoken Romance language in the world. For 10 points each:
Name these two kingdoms, which were reunited by Alfonso VI, who was called “el Bravo.”
This legendary Spanish warrior and Castilian national hero served Sancho II and later became the ruler of Valencia. He’s memorialized by a lengthy “Cantar” [kahn-TAR], as well as a Pierre Corneille play.
El Cid spent his years as ruler of Valencia leading a relatively non-sectarian society of Christians and Muslims against this invading Moroccan dynasty, which was succeeded by the Almohads.
Castile AND León [accept Castilla in place of “Castile”]
El Cid Campeador [or El Cid Campeador; or Rodrigo Díaz de Vivar; accept Le Cid; prompt on Díaz]
Almoravids [or al-Murabitun; or Imrabden] &lt;WA, ContHist&gt;
Meteorologist Isaac Cline had argued against building a seawall prior to this disaster, tragically leading to his wife’s death. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1900 event, the deadliest natural disaster in American history. It destroyed most of a city that is home to the Strand Historic District.
Hundreds of African American victims of a hurricane named after this body of water were buried in unmarked graves in West Palm Beach. That 1928 hurricane was the second deadliest natural disaster in US history.
The 1938 New England Hurricane, which killed nearly 1,000 people, made landfall on this large US island, destroying many homes in The Hamptons and other areas. The first Levittown was built here.
Galveston hurricane of 1900 [prompt on partial answer]
Lake Okeechobee
Long Island &lt;RY, AmHist&gt;
Answer some questions about calligraphy, for 10 points each.
The bismillah is often depicted in calligraphy in this language, which is used to decorate the ceilings of mosques.
Rudolph Koch and this father of modern calligraphy pioneered the use of the broad-edged pen. He developed a namesake sans-serif font for the London Underground as well as designing its iconic roundel symbol.
The namesake “miniscule” developed by this European dynasty was used until about 1200 AD by Benedictine and other monks in texts. Its first king built a cathedral at Aachen.
Arabic [or al-’arabiyyah]
Edward Johnston
Carolingian dynasty [or Caroline dynasty/miniscule] &lt;EX, Painting&gt;
This politician got into a dispute with Edmund Allenby over whether Egypt should pay a fine for the assassination of Lee Stack. For 10 points each:
Name this British politician who negotiated the Locarno Pact with Aristide Briand and Gustav Stresemann, for which he won the Nobel Peace Prize.
With Austen Chamberlain, this Conservative was a major advocate for British re-armament during the 1930s. He later served as Prime Minister for most of World War II.
This other Conservative Prime Minister signed the Locarno Pact, and served as Prime Minister three times under three different monarchs in the 1920s and 30s.
Austen Chamberlain [prompt on Chamberlain]
Winston Churchill
Stanley Baldwin &lt;WA, BritHist&gt;
Answer the following about “Blind Sheikh” Omar Abdel-Rahman, for 10 points each.
Abdel-Rahman commanded the sect whose member Khalid Islambouli assassinated this Egyptian leader, who negotiated the Camp David Accords.
Abdel-Rahman was finally caught planning a “Landmarks bombing” campaign in 1995 as a follow-up to an earlier truck attack at this location, which was also bombed by Ramzi Yousef in 1993.
Qasim al Raymi, a member of this organization, eulogized Abdel-Rahman after his death in prison. Members of this organization carried out the USS Cole bombing.
Anwar Sadat
World Trade Center [prompt on New York City or NYC]
AQAP [or al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula; prompt on al-Qaeda] &lt;EX, WorldHist&gt;
This man united the Greek cities into the Panhellenion and, according to Cassius Dio, built a city to honor the victim of a human sacrifice. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman emperor who famously loved the youthful Antinous and built a wall in Britain.
Antinous was from this territory, which was unified with Pontus in a Roman province. Rome gained control of this territory after its last native king, Nicomedes IV, bequeathed it to Rome upon his death.
The city of Antinoöpolis was built by Hadrian on the shores of this body of water, where Antinous drowned.
Hadrian [or Publius Aelius Hadrianus Augustus]
Bithynia
Nile River [or an-Nil; or Neilos] &lt;VC, Ancient&gt;
Answer the following about the Ottoman military presence in and around Greece, for 10 points each.
A chain was drawn across the Golden Horn to defend against the Ottoman navy during their 1453 siege of this city, the capital of the Byzantine Empire.
This building served as an Ottoman mosque before being used as a gunpowder store, in which capacity it was severely damaged during a 1687 Venetian siege. Some of this building’s sculptures were nearly lost with the sinking of the ship Mentor after being removed from it in the early 19th century.
Despite four invasions, this Ionian island never came under Ottoman control. The conflict between Athens and Corinth over this island was one of the proximate causes of the Second Peloponnesian War.
Constantinople
Parthenon
Corfu [or Corcyra; or Kerkyra] &lt;AF, ContHist&gt;
A Tibetan monk created the ‘Phags-pa [POGS-pah] script for a ruler of this dynasty that he served as Imperial Preceptor. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty, which was later overthrown by the Red Turban Rebellion led by Zhu Yuanzhang [joo y’wen-jong], who became known as the Hongwu emperor.
Kublai installed prince Wonjong [wun-JOHNG] as the ruler of this peninsula’s Goryeo [kor-yuh] dynasty, allowing the Mongols to use it to launch two failed invasions of Japan. The Goryeo lend this peninsula its English name.
The Yuan dynasty built a new capital called Khanbaliq to replace the earlier Mongol capital at this site. A Flemish missionary named William of Rubruck visited Mongke Khan at this city.
Yuan dynasty
Korean peninsula [or Hanguk]
Karakorum &lt;RY, WorldHist&gt;
This man invented a device for treating spinal problems that may have inspired the rack used to torture the arsonist Herostratus. For 10 points each:
Name this “Father of Modern Medicine” whose namesake oath is one of the foundations of medical ethics.
Hippocrates is credited with developing the theory of humors into a substantial medical theory. Give the English names of [emphasize] any two of the four classical humors he outlined, or their corresponding temperaments.
In contrast to Hippocrates’s naturalistic theory, sick or injured Greeks often went to these sorts of locations, where wounds might be licked by dogs or the people might handle snakes. A famous example was located at Epidaurus.
Hippocrates of Kos
sanguine OR choleric OR phlegmatic OR melancholic OR blood OR yellow bile OR black bile OR phlegm [accept melancholy]
temples of Asclepius [or Asclepium; or Asklepieion; prompt on temples] &lt;AF, Ancient&gt;
Radio Caroline was founded to circumvent broadcasting monopolies maintained by this company in the 1960s. For 10 points each:
Name this royally chartered UK media company, whose motto is “Nation shall speak peace unto Nation.” Its services include the educational programs on Radio 4, and it runs the Proms concerts every year.
A current BBC journalist named Polly is the granddaughter of this British historian, who presented ideas from his The World and the West on the BBC in the 1950s. He wrote the twelve-volume A Study of History.
The Hutton Inquiry, which investigated BBC journalism standards, was sparked by a combat death in this war. It was partly sparked by fake allegations that a world leader purchased yellowcake uranium from Niger.
BBC [or British Broadcasting Corporation]
Arnold (Joseph) Toynbee
Iraq War [or Second Gulf War; prompt on Gulf War] &lt;WA, BritHist&gt;
The British opposed the Portuguese Pink Map because it would interfere with this project. For 10 points each:
Name this project that was envisioned by a political cartoon showing Cecil Rhodes straddling Africa, holding a telegraph line in his hands. This railway project intended to connect British colonies in Africa from north to south.
The British attempt to create a north-south chain of colonies conflicted with this imperial power’s dream of creating an east-west chain of colonies. This empire’s African colonies included West Africa and Algeria.
In 1904, Britain and France entered into a “cordial” alliance with this name. A later alliance of this name consisting of Britain, France, and Russia faced off against the Central Powers in World War I.
Cape to Cairo railway
France [accept French colonial empire; accept French West Africa; accept French Algeria]
Entente [accept Entente Cordiale; accept Triple Entente]
Prior to its independence, this country was home to many highwaymen known as klephts. For 10 points each:
Name this country which fought a war of independence against the Ottoman Empire from 1821 to 1832. Lord Byron died in this country while fighting for its independence.
The Greek War of Independence was supported by this secret nationalist organization with Freemason-like rituals, led by Alexander Ypsilantis.
In a 1827 treaty signed in this capital city of the United Kingdom, Britain, France, and Russia decided to intervene in the Greek War of Independence on the side of Greece.
Greece [or Hellas]
Filiki Eteria [or the Friendly Society]
London [accept Treaty of London]
In 1969, a program to provide free breakfast to schoolchildren was begun in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this East Bay city where Huey Newton and Bobby Seale founded the Black Panther Party.
This current governor of California was mayor of Oakland from 1999 to 2007. He earlier served as governor from 1975 to 1983, during which time he was nicknamed “Governor Moonbeam.”
Brown’s first stint as governor replaced this man. This conservative sent in troops to put down protests at the University of California as part of his plan to “clean up the mess in Berkeley.”
Oakland
Jerry Brown [or Edmund Gerald Brown, Jr.; accept anything that distinguishes him as the younger Brown and not his father, Pat Brown; prompt on Brown]
Ronald Reagan
A historian with this surname names a special collections and rare books library at the University of California, Berkeley. For 10 points each:
Name this surname of the Secretary of the Navy who established the United States Naval Academy. His magnum opus as a historian is his work History of the United States, from the Discovery of the American Continent.
George Bancroft served as Secretary of the Navy under this president, who won the Election of 1844 as a “dark horse” candidate. This president led the United States into the Mexican-American War.
Polk belonged to this American political party, which opposed the Whigs from the 1820s to the 1850s. Andrew Jackson also belonged to this party, which took as its symbol a donkey.
Bancroft [accept Hubert Howe Bancroft; accept George Bancroft]
James K. Polk
Democratic Party
A ruler of this empire became the youngest king ever when a crown was placed on his mother’s belly, thus crowning him before he was even born. For 10 points each:
Name this powerful Persian empire which lasted from the 3rd century to the 7th century. In its conflicts with Rome, this empire’s ruler Shapur II captured Roman emperor Valerian and turned him into a footstool.
The Sassanid Empire was annexed into this growing Muslim caliphate after it was defeated at the Battle of al-Qadisiyyah. This empire was ruled by the “four rightly guided caliphs.”
This leader built a pair of crossed swords forming an archway to commemorate the Battle of Qadisiyyah. This Iraqi dictator was overthrown during the United States invasion in 2003, and was subsequently executed.
Sassanid Empire [or the Sassanian Empire; prompt on Persia]
Rashidun Caliphate
Saddam Hussein
This country experienced about a century of instability and infighting during its Zemene Mesafint, or Era of the Princes. For 10 points each:
Name this country that was ruled until 1974 by members of the Solomonic Dynasty. Along with Liberia, it was one of only two nations to resist colonization during the Scramble for Africa.
The last member of the Solomonic line was this emperor, who was overthrown by a communist government called the Derg. This ruler is worshipped by Rastafarians, whose name comes from this ruler’s pre-regnal name.
A secret pact between this man and British Foreign Secretary Samuel Hoare gave Mussolini most of Ethiopia. This prime minister during the Vichy regime was executed for collaboration with the Nazis.
Ethiopia [or Abyssinia]
Haile Selassie (his pre-regnal name was Ras Tafari)
Pierre Laval
For 10 points each, answer the following about poor British governmental responses to hunger strikes.
Winston Churchill advocated allowing this Indian independence activist to starve to death during one of his hunger strikes. This advocate of satyagraha is considered the father of independent India.
Members of the WSPU, which advocated for this cause, were force-fed while they went on hunger strikes in prison. Emmeline Pankhurst was a major proponent of this cause.
Margaret Thatcher pronounced this IRA member to be a “criminal” who “chose to take his own life” after he died following a 66-day hunger strike in Maze Prison.
Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi]
women’s suffrage movement [or suffragette movement; or anything mentioning women getting the vote]
Bobby Sands [or Robert Gerard Sands]
Answer the following about Stephen Crane’s The Red Badge of Courage, for 10 points each.
The novel is about Henry Fleming, a soldier in this war. Michael Shaara wrote about a battle from this war in The Killer Angels.
Henry rationalizes his decision to desert by observing that one of these animals runs away when he throws a pinecone at it.
Henry is profoundly affected by the death of this friend of his, who is sometimes called “the tall soldier.” His initials suggest that he is meant to serve as a Christ figure.
American Civil War
a squirrel
Jim Conklin [or Jim Conklin]
A lot of important naval battles occurred in 480 BC. Answer some questions about them, for 10 points each:
This naval commander managed to decisively defeat the Achaemenid Persian fleet at this naval battle, fought shortly after the Battle of Thermopylae. As a result, Xerxes I was never able to conquer all of Greece.
The female commander Artemisia, who was queen of this city, skillfully commanded a contingent of ships at the Battle of Salamis and the earlier Battle of Artemisium. Herodotus was from this city, the home of a notable mausoleum.
The city of Syracuse defeated this North African power at the Battle of Himera in 480 BC. This power would later produce military commanders such as Hannibal Barca.
Themistocles
Halicarnassus [accept Artemisia of Halicarnassus; accept Herodotus of Halicarnassus; accept Mausoleum of Halicarnassus]
Carthage
This leader was defeated by Germanicus at the Battle of the Weser River. For 10 points each:
Name this man who annihilated three Roman legions led by Quintilius Varus in a 9 AD battle set in a heavily wooded area.
According to Suetonius, after hearing of the defeat at the Teutoburg Forest, this first emperor of Rome pounded the walls of his palace repeatedly yelling “Quintilius Varus, give me back my legions!”
After the disaster at the Teutoburg Forest, Rome began to withdraw from Germania to west of this river, which became the boundary between Gaul and Germania.
Arminius [or Hermann]
Augustus [accept Octavian or Octavius, even though his name as emperor should be Augustus]
Rhine River
The Treaty of Hudaybiyah was signed between Mecca and this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the second-holiest city in Islam.
This Islamic prophet fled from Mecca to Medina in the hijra. He received the Quran and is considered by Muslims to be the “messenger of God.”
This failed siege of Medina in 627 is often named for a defensive structure surrounding the city. Meccan forces, led by the Quraysh, as well as their Jewish allies, were thwarted by Muhammad’s military leadership in this battle.
Medina
Muhammad
Battle of the Trench [or Battle of the Confederates]
One cause of this event decreased crop yields in Russia due to the Russian Revolution, which led to overcultivation of crops in the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this environmental disaster in the Midwest that occurred about the same time as the Great Depression, which caused the mass migration of thousands of “Okies.”
This president, who initiated the New Deal, attempted to stop the Dust Bowl with the Great Plains Shelterbelt, which planted over 200 million of trees in the Midwest.
A New Deal-sponsored documentary about the Dust Bowl was titled [this thing] That Broke the Plains. One factually-incorrect saying about the Midwest stated that rain followed this object.
Dust Bowl
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
the plow [accept The Plow That Broke the Plains; accept rain follows the plow]
John Hawkwood, who led the White Company, was one of the most famous of these people. For 10 points each:
Name these mercenaries active in Renaissance Italy. Federico da Montefeltro was a Duke of Urbino who was an extremely successful one of these people.
This Florentine political theorist attacked the use of condottieri as the cause for Italy’s instability in his treatise The Prince, in which he famously stated that “ends justify the means” and “tis better to be feared than loved.”
Machiavelli’s other work includes “Discourses” on the work of this historian, who chronicled the history of the Roman Republic in his Ab Urbe Condita.
condottieri [or condottiero; or condottiere; prompt on mercenaries]
Niccolò Machiavelli
Livy [or Titus Livius; accept Discourses on Livy]
This man’s namesake proclamation promised freedom to any black slave who joined the Loyalist cause. For 10 points each:
Name this last colonial governor of Virginia, who names a 1774 war against the Shawnee and Mingo tribes that was ended at the Battle of Point Pleasant.
On April 20, 1775, Lord Dunmore ordered the confiscation of a large magazine of this substance. This propellant, invented in Song China, also names a plot to kill James I by blowing up the Houses of Parliament.
The store of gunpowder was located in this capital of colonial Virginia in the 18th century. This home of the College of William and Mary was restored as a “living museum” with the sponsorship of John D. Rockefeller.
John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore [accept either underlined part; accept Lord Dunmore’s War]
gunpowder [accept black powder; accept Gunpowder Incident; accept Gunpowder Plot]
Williamsburg [accept Colonial Williamsburg]
In 69 AD, Rome was ruled by this number of emperors in succession. For 10 points each:
Name this number of co-emperors who ruled in the Diocletian-established Tetrarchy.
The Tetrarchy ended the crisis of this century, which was a period of instability in the Roman Empire in which lots of emperors rose and fell, many of them “barracks emperors.”
The Tetrarchy was ended by this emperor, who defeated his co-emperors Licinius and Maxentius to become sole ruler of the empire.
four [accept Year of the Four Emperors]
3rd century [accept 200s]
Constantine I [or Constantine the Great; prompt on Constantine]
This city was the capital of the Portuguese Empire from 1808 to 1821. For 10 points each:
Name this capital of Brazil until it was moved to Brasilia. This city hosted the 2016 Summer Olympics.
This president of Brazil moved the capital to Brasilia. He called for “fifty years of progress in five” in his plan for Brazilian economic development.
Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana Stadium played host to the 1950 World Cup final, in which this country shockingly defeated Brazil 2-1. This country used to be part of Brazil as Cisplatine Province until it won its independence in 1830.
Rio de Janeiro
Juscelino Kubitschek
Uruguay
During a siege of this city, a failed attack on the besiegers' supply train was known as the Battle of the Herrings. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose siege during the Hundred Years' War was lifted after six months by a force led by a woman later known as "the Maid" of this city.
This “Maid of Orleans” was later captured by the English and burnt at the stake.
A couple months after Joan of Arc's victory at Orleans, this then-Dauphin was crowned in the cathedral at Reims. His reign saw the eventual end of the Hundred Years' War.
Orleans [accept Siege of Orleans]
Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d'Arc]
Charles VII [or Charles the Victorious; or Charles the Well-Served]
Answer the following about historical Sergei Eisenstein films, for 10 points each.
Perhaps the most famous Eisenstein film depicts a mutiny aboard the battleship Potemkin, which occurred during this year. Russia lost a war against Japan in this year, which contributed to strikes and protests like Bloody Sunday.
Eisenstein’s Alexander Nevsky shows the Teutonic Knights being decisively defeated by forces under Nevsky at this 1242 battle fought over a frozen Lake Peipus.
The life of this Russian czar was chronicled in an unfinished trilogy by Eisenstein. This first Czar of all the Russias also terrorized people with the oprichniki secret police, with which he committed the Novgorod Massacre.
1905
Battle on the Ice
Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV; or Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]
Answer the following about the history behind Liberty Leading the People. For 10 points each:
The painting is set during the July Revolution, which replaced Charles X with this “Citizen-King,” who reigned until he was toppled in 1848.
The central woman—Liberty—holds aloft this object. Due to its three vertical stripes of blue, white, and red, it’s often known as the tricolour.
Liberty stands on a barricade, which were often used by revolutionaries as blockades. However, this man’s renovation of Paris included wide boulevards, which were intended to hamper the construction of barricades.
Louis-Philippe
flag of France [prompt on flag]
Baron Haussmann [or Georges-Eugene Haussmann]
Answer the following about execution methods throughout history, for 10 points each.
Socrates was condemned to die by drinking the toxic juice of this plant.
Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette, along with thousands of others during the Reign of Terror, died via this “national razor,” which was intended to be a more humane form of execution.
In order to prevent the spilling of royal blood, the last Abbasid caliph was put to death in this manner after Hulagu Khan sacked Baghdad.
hemlock
guillotine [prompt on beheading]
rolled up into a carpet and trampled to death
A painting by Ilya Repin shows a group of these people crafting an obscene reply to the Ottoman sultan. For 10 points each:
Name these people, which included rebels Stenka Razin and Yemelyan Pugachev. These people, whose subdivisions include the Zaporozhian and the Don, were used extensively as soldiers and policemen in Imperial Russia.
This tsar faced the revolt of Stenka Razin. Under this son of Michael, the Russian Orthodox Church introduced reforms which were bitterly opposed by the Old Believers.
Alexis was the second tsar from this Russian royal house first started by his father Michael. It lasted until it was overthrown in the February Revolution in 1917.
Cossacks [accept Don Cossacks; accept Zaporozhian Cossacks; accept Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks]
Alexis
House of Romanov
Fort Montgomery was built on Island Point after it was ceded to the United States in this agreement. For 10 points each:
Name this 1842 agreement that fixed the border between Maine and New Brunswick, which was the point of contention in the Aroostook War.
The Webster-Ashburton Treaty was signed during the presidency of this man, who was called “his Accidency” after succeeding to the presidency after the death of William Henry Harrison.
Late in his term as president, Tyler approved the annexation of this state, which existed as an independent republic for 10 years after winning its independence from Mexico. At the time of annexation, its capital was Austin.
Webster-Ashburton Treaty
John Tyler
Texas
The memorial to this branch of the military was sculpted by Felix de Weldon, and shows six members of this branch raising the flag on Iwo Jima. For 10 points each:
Name this branch of the United States military specializing in amphibious warfare. In the Pacific Theater, members of this branch were crucial in amphibious landings to take heavily-fortified islands.
The official song of the Marines, the “Marines’ Hymn,” begins “From the halls of Montezuma,” which refers to the Marines’ storming of this castle guarding Mexico City. The six “Boy Heroes” died trying to defend this location.
The second line of the Marines’ Hymn mentions “the shores of Tripoli,” refers to the Battle of Derne during the first of these wars against North African pirate states early in the United States’ history.
United States Marine Corps [or USMC]
Chapultepec Castle [accept Battle of Chapultepec]
Barbary Wars
The Wye River Memorandum was intended to clarify how the second of these agreements would be implemented. For 10 points each:
Name this set of agreements between Israel and the PLO that gave Palestinians limited autonomy over the West Bank and Gaza.
This controversial Palestinian leader represented the PLO during the negotiations for the Oslo Accords. This founder of Fatah died in 2004.
Arafat received this award in 1994, along with Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Rabin, for negotiating the Oslo Accords. Other winners have included Barack Obama in 2008.
Oslo Accords [accept Oslo I; accept Oslo II]
Yasser Arafat
Nobel Peace Prize [prompt on Nobel Prize]
You are noted activist and journalist Stetson Kennedy. For 10 points each:
You infiltrate this white supremacist organization in order to “unmask” its secrets. You discover that this hate group’s customs are kind of stupid, like dressing up in white sheets and having positions like the Grand Cyclops.
One day, a man approaches you and asks if you know a Mr. Ayak. Since you want to keep your disguise, you correctly reply that you know someone with this four-letter name.
You give your stories of the Klan to the Superman radio show, which begins broadcasting the show “Clan of the” [this object]. A ceremony involving these religious objects on Stone Mountain marked the revival of the KKK.
KKK [or Ku Klux Klan; accept the Klan]
Akia [or “A Klansman I am”; accept Akai; accept “A Klansman am I”; accept whole sentences incorporating Akia like “Yes, and I also know a Mr. Akia”]
“Clan of the Fiery Cross” [accept burning crosses or descriptive answers like crosses on fire; accept crucifix in place of cross; prompt on crosses; prompt on crucifixes]
A contingent of Phocians was dispatched to guard a mountain trail during this battle by the eventual losers, who were overwhelmed on both sides by enemy forces utilizing the trail. For 10 points each:
Name this last stand by 300 Spartans led by Leonidas I against some 100,000 Persian troops at a narrow pass.
A lesser known “last stand of the 300” in Greek history came at the 338 BC Battle of Chaeronea, when this Theban group of 150 pairs of homosexual lovers refused to retreat before the forces of Philip II of Macedon.
A later clash at Chaeronea in 86 BC pitted Rome under Sulla against forces from the Kingdom of Pontus, which was ruled at the time by this king. This namesake of three wars versus Rome famously built up his immunity to poison.
Battle of Thermopylae
Sacred Band of Thebes [or Hieros Lokhos]
Mithridates VI [or Mithridates the Great; or Eupator Dionysius]
This group was led by Gerrard Winstanley, who published the pamphlet The New Law of Righteousness. For 10 points each:
Name this radical, proto-Communist faction, whose members were known to plow and plant crops in town commons to reclaim them for the peasantry.
During the English Civil War, Winstanley called upon the English people to throw off the "yoke" of these people. William the Conqueror was a member of these people who ruled a namesake kingdom in northern France.
In 1649, Winstanley justified his calls to action in a letter to Thomas Fairfax, a commander within this army which opposed Royalist forces in the English Civil War.
Diggers [or True Levellers; do not accept or prompt on Levellers alone]
Normans [accept Normandy or Norman yoke]
New Model Army
This man resigned from Columbia University in 1917 after several faculty members were dismissed on accusations of disloyalty. For 10 points each:
Name this historian who claimed that the Founding Fathers wrote the Constitution to protect their own wealth in his 1913 book An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States.
Another historian from Columbia is Eric Foner, who called this period of history “America’s Unfinished Revolution.” This period of history after the Civil War, from 1865 to 1877, was attacked by the Dunning School.
This prominent black intellectual opposed the views of the Dunning School in his book Black Reconstruction. In his book The Souls of Black Folk, he coined the term “double consciousness.”
Charles Beard
Reconstruction [accept Reconstruction: America’s Unfinished Revolution]
W.E.B. Du Bois
A king of this name was found dead in his bed on June 9, 1946, murdered with a single shot to the head. For 10 points each:
Name this regnal name of nine kings of the Chakri Dynasty. The most recent, Bhumibol Adulyadej, died on October 13, 2016.
This country, the only Southeast Asian nation to escape colonization, has been ruled by kings named Rama since 1872. It was previously known as Siam.
Before the rule of the Chakri Dynasty, Thailand was ruled by this kingdom. The powerful king Narai ruled at the height of this kingdom, which was succeeded by the short-lived Thonburi Kingdom under Taksin.
Rama [accept Rama VIII; accept Rama IX]
Thailand [prompt on Siam]
Ayutthaya
After exclaiming “This battle is lost, but there is yet time to win another!” Louis Desaix was killed in this battle while leading a counterattack. For 10 points each:
Name this decisive victory for Napoleon against Austrian forces in Northern Italy in 1800. This battle forced the Austrians to sign the Treaty of Luneville, which was one of the treaties ending the War of the Second Coalition.
The Battle of Marengo occurred after Napoleon accomplished this action to invade Italy. This action, memorialized in a Jacques-Louis David painting, was also done by Hannibal in his invasion of Italy.
Napoleon was opposed in his Italian Campaign by undefeated military commander Alexander Suvorov, who was snubbed by this Russian czar, the son of Catherine the Great. This short-reigning czar was succeeded by Alexander I.
Battle of Marengo
crossing the Alps [accept Napoleon Crossing the Alps; accept more specific answers, like Napoleon crossing the Great St. Bernard Pass]
Paul [or Pavel]
A terrorist group advocating for the independence of this region called ETIM killed five people in a 2013 attack in Tiananmen Square by driving a car into a crowd of people. For 10 points each:
Name this Uighur-dominated region in the northwest of China, the largest Chinese province by area.
Xinjiang lay on the path of this historic trade route through Central Asia. Its name comes from a Chinese fabric that made its way west on this route.
Much of Xinjiang was explored by Zhang Qian, an explorer sent to the west by Wudi, who belonged to this Chinese dynasty.
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region
Silk Road
Han Dynasty
Recalling a ballad from his West Point days, this man described his own retirement with the line “Old soldiers never die; they just fade away.” For 10 points each:
Name this man, who gave a April 19, 1951 speech to Congress after he had been removed from his position for advocating for a full-scale invasion of China against the wishes of president Harry S Truman.
Before he was called to serve as commander in the Korean War, MacArthur was in charge of the occupation of this country, which surrendered after its cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were levelled by atomic bombs.
The void left by MacArthur’s departure was filled by this general, nicknamed “Old Iron Tits,” in both Korea and as military governor of Japan. He later took Eisenhower’s position as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe.
Douglas MacArthur
Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]
Matthew Bunker Ridgway
Operation Focus, a preemptive airstrike, opened this war. For 10 points each:
Name this brief 1967 war that led to Israeli annexation of the Sinai Peninsula, the Golan Heights and the West Bank.
Israel seized the Sinai Peninsula from this country, which had earlier confronted British, French and Israeli troops in the Suez Crisis. This country was led by Gamal Abdul Nasser at the time of the Six-Day War.
On the fourth day of the war, this American ship was attacked by Israeli aircraft while off the north coast of the Sinai Peninsula, killing thirty-four people. Israel claimed that it mistook this ship for an Egyptian transport ship.
Six-Day War [or Milhemet Sheshet HaYamim; or Third Arab–Israeli War; or June War; or an-Naksah; prompt on Arab–Israeli War; do not prompt on or accept “al-Nakba”]
Egypt [or Misr; do not accept or prompt on United Arab Republic, since it only lasted from 1958–1961 and thus was not a state at the time of the Six-Day War]
USS Liberty
This event in part led to the Exclusion Crisis due to the anti-Catholic sentiment it stoked. For 10 points each:
Name this fictitious plot about a vast Catholic conspiracy bent on assassinating the incumbent monarch. This “plot” was fabricated by Titus Oates and was found to be false, but not before twenty-two innocent people were hanged.
The Popish Plot was a hoax about a plot to assassinate a monarch with this name, whose father was earlier executed after he lost the English Civil War.
After it was found Charles’ brother, the future James II, was secretly Catholic, this political party formed to support the exclusion of James II from inheriting the throne. Robert Walpole belonged to this party.
Popish Plot
Charles [accept Charles II; accept Charles I]
Whig Party
These people were rooted out by having them trample flat icons called fumi-e. For 10 points each:
Name these people who were forced into hiding following the failed Shimabara Rebellion.
The Shimabara Rebellion occurred during this period of Japanese history, which lasted from 1603 to 1868, when it was ended by the Meiji Restoration.
During the Tokugawa shogunate, Christianity was banned as part of this policy, in which Japan closed itself off to almost all foreign contact. Matthew Perry forcibly ended this policy with his “Black Ships.”
Japanese Christians [accept Catholics; accept Kakure Kirishitan; do not accept or prompt on Protestants or Lutherans or any other branch of Christianity; prompt on just Japanese people]
Tokugawa shogunate [or Edo Period; or Tokugawa bakufu; or Edo bakufu]
isolationism [or sakoku; prompt on descriptions of foreigners unable to enter Japan]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the life of Lepidus, that guy in the Second Triumvirate no one seems to talk about.
Lepidus served in this position for more than thirty years, from 44 BC to his death in 13 BC. This position, which literally translates to “greatest bridge-builder,” was the chief priest of the Roman state religion.
For the year of 46 BC, Lepidus served with Julius Caesar in this position, which had become a sham anyways Two men each year were elected to this most prestigious political position in the Roman Republic.
Lepidus made a major blunder by not participating in this battle, instead allowing Mark Antony and Octavian to claim all the glory for finally defeating Caesar’s assassins Brutus and Cassius here.
pontifex maximus
consul
Battle of Philippi
Answer the following about times when people were chucked out of windows in Prague, for 10 points each.
The Second Defenestration of Prague in 1618 triggered this horrendously long, bloody, and confusing war that involved nearly every country in Europe that was finally ended by the 1648 Treaty of Westphalia.
The First Defenestration of Prague in 1419, which killed seven Prague town council members, was carried out by members of this religious movement, who followed the teachings of a heretic burned at the Council of Constance.
The so-called “Third Defenestration of Prague” was when a Foreign Minister of Czechoslovakia with this surname was found beneath his bathroom window. This name was shared by his father, the first president of Czechoslovakia.
Thirty Years’ War
Hussites [accept Jan Hus]
Masaryk [accept Jan Masaryk; accept Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk]
Answer the following about life in the Wild West… through Westerns starring John Wayne. For 10 points each:
John Wayne played Davy Crockett in a 1960 movie about the last stand of Texan forces at this mission located in San Antonio.
John Wayne won his only Oscar in True Grit as “Rooster” Cogburn, who tracks outlaw Tom Chaney into the Indian Territory, which later became this state in 1907.
Hondo is based on the short story “The Gift of” this Apache chief, who launched guerilla raids from the Dragoon Mountains until he signed a peace treaty with Oliver O. Howard in 1872.
the Alamo [or The Alamo; accept Battle of the Alamo]
Oklahoma
Cochise [or Cheis; or A-da-tli-chi; or K’uu-ch’ish]
This leader was once suspected of being an informant with the codename “Bolek” for his country’s secret police force. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the trade union Solidarity, who participated in the Round Table Talks with his country’s communist government led by Wojciech Jaruzelski.
Walesa was the first democratically elected president of this country. This country fell into the Soviet sphere of influence after the Red Army captured cities like its capital Warsaw.
Walesa led a strike at the Lenin Shipyards in this city following the firing of Anna Walentynowicz. During the interwar period, this city was a “Free City” located at the tip of Poland’s narrow corridor to the Baltic Sea.
Lech Wałęsa (“va-wen-sa”)
Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]
Gdańsk [or Danzig]
Name some key players in the Mexican Revolution, for 10 points each.
The Mexican Revolution began as a revolt against this longtime dictator, who ruled Mexico from 1876 to 1911.
This American president intervened in the Mexican Revolution with actions such as the occupation of Veracruz. This president entered the United States into World War I after Mexico received the Zimmermann Telegram.
This president of Mexico was the recipient of the Zimmermann Telegram. This man, who gathered a commission to draft the Constitution of 1917, overthrew Victoriano Huerta with the help of Pancho Villa and Emiliano Zapata.
Porfirio Díaz [or José de la Cruz Porfirio Díaz Mori]
Thomas Woodrow Wilson
Venustiano Carranza [or José Venustiano Carranza Garza]
This document was intended to be “a red rag on the Gallic bull.” For 10 points each:
Name this document sent by Wilhelm I in the namesake spa town that was edited to be condescending and insulting to the French, who were so enraged by it that they declared war on Prussia five days later.
The Ems Dispatch described a brief interaction between Wilhelm I and French ambassador Count Benedetti about the accession of Leopold of this house to the Spanish throne. All rulers of the German Empire belonged to this house.
The Ems Dispatch was edited by no other than this “Iron Chancellor,” the master of realpolitik and architect of German unification.
Ems Dispatch [or Dépêche d’Ems; or Emser Depesche]
House of Hohenzollern
Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg]
Pass laws were established as part of this system to limit the autonomy of blacks. For 10 points each:
Name this South African racial segregation system.
Along with Nelson Mandela, this last president of apartheid South Africa won a Nobel Peace Prize for his role in ending apartheid.
De Klerk belonged to this political party, which under Daniel Francois Malan, implemented apartheid in 1948. This party ruled South Africa throughout the apartheid era.
apartheid
Frederik Willem de Klerk
National Party [or Nasionale Party]
This man removed the United States from the gold standard while serving as Secretary of the Treasury. For 10 points each:
Name this former Governor of Texas who was wounded while riding with John F. Kennedy when Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas.
Despite being a Democrat, Connally served as Secretary of the Treasury for this Republican president, who resigned following the Watergate scandal.
Connally switched parties and unsuccessfully tried to gain the Republican nomination for president during this election year. Ted Kennedy and John Anderson also failed to gain their parties’ backing during this year.
John Bowden Connally, Jr.
Richard Milhous Nixon
Election of 1980
One of its provisions required that the Isle of Pines be left out of one nation’s boundaries. For 10 points each:
Name this component of the 1901 Army Appropriations Bill, which essentially gave the United States control over Cuban foreign policy. It also allowed the United States to acquire the land for Guantanamo Bay Naval Base.
The Platt Amendment withdrew American troops from Cuba left over from this “splendid little war.” The United States also gained the Philippines as a result of this war.
The Platt Amendment was authored by this man, Theodore Roosevelt’s first Secretary of War and second Secretary of State. His foreign policy triumphs included an agreement with Takahira Kogoro that affirmed the Open Door Policy.
Platt Amendment
Spanish–American War
Elihu Root [accept Root–Takahira Agreement]
The preacher Fulk of Neuilly became tremendously popular due to his speeches encouraging people to join this event. For 10 points each:
Name this early thirteenth century conflict largely sponsored by Venice, which got derailed from its original purpose and ended up sacking Constantinople instead.
Enrico Dandolo, the doge of Venice who led the sack of Constantinople, had this disability. Basil the Bulgar-Slayer gained his nickname by inflicting this disability on fifteen thousand captured Bulgar soldiers.
Dandolo may have been blinded on the orders of Byzantine emperor Manuel I, who belonged to this house. An earlier emperor from this house sought help from the west to fight the Seljuk Turks, which grew into the First Crusade.
Fourth Crusade [prompt on Crusades]
blindness [accept equivalents such as without sight]
Comnenus Dynasty [or House of Comnenus; or Komnenoi; accept Manuel I Comnenus; accept Alexius I Comnenus]
A harsh code of laws in this colony promulgated by Thomas Dale included gruesome forms of capital punishment for minor crimes, such as being chained to a tree and starved to death for stealing oatmeal. For 10 points each:
Name this settlement in Virginia, founded in 1607, that was the first permanent British colony in America.
Jamestown was nearly abandoned following this period, the winter of 1609–1610. During this period, almost three-quarters of colonists died due to inadequate supplies and preparation.
Jamestown was later burned down in 1676 during Bacon’s Rebellion, which opposed this colonial governor, partly because of his friendly policies towards Native Americans.
Jamestown, Virginia
the Starving Time
William Berkeley
This man claimed to have said “fuddle duddle” when accused of mouthing profanity in the House of Commons. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian Prime Minister who invoked the only peacetime usage of the War Measures Act in 1970 when dealing with the October Crisis.
The October Crisis was precipitated by kidnappings carried out by separatists from this French-speaking Canadian province. Trudeau was born in this province’s largest city of Montreal.
When asked by journalist Tim Ralfe how far he would go to resolve the October Crisis, Trudeau famously gave this three-word response.
Pierre Trudeau [prompt on Trudeau]
Québec
“Well, just watch me”
One prime minister of this country swore to develop nuclear weapons, even if this country “had to eat grass and leaves for a thousand years.” For 10 points each:
Name this country, which was created as a Muslim state during the partition of British India. Its eastern portion won its independence after this country lost a 1971 to India.
This prime minister of Pakistan signed the Simla Agreement following the 1971 Indo-Pakistani War. This man, who gave the aforementioned quotation about eating grass, was overthrown and executed following a coup by Zia ul-Haq.
Bhutto approved the 1965 infiltration of Kashmir, which was given this codename. It was named after a European location ceded to Britain following the Treaty of Utrecht that endured a lengthy siege during the American Revolution.
Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or Islāmī Jumhūriyah Pākistān]
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto [prompt on Bhutto]
Operation Gibraltar [accept Great Siege of Gibraltar]
Ignoring their previous promises, the Romans seized the lands of this leader’s husband Prasutagus; to add insult to injury, this woman was flogged and her daughters raped. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Iceni tribe whose revolt in Roman Britannia was crushed by Gaius Suetonius Paulinus.
Boudicca’s revolt was finally defeated at this battle. More than seventy thousand Britons fell against ten thousand legionaries in this battle, which was supposedly fought on a road stretching northwest from Dover.
Boudicca’s revolt occurred during the reign of this emperor. Contrary to popular belief, he did not fiddle while Rome burned, though he did persecute tons of Christians as part of his effort to blame the fire on them.
Boudicca
Battle of Watling Street
Nero [or Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
This dynasty was founded after forces led by the peasant rebel Li Zicheng were defeated at the Battle of Shanhaiguan. For 10 points each:
Identify this last imperial dynasty of China, which formally ended in 1912 following the abdication of Emperor Puyi.
This Qing Emperor had the longest reign in Chinese history. His military exploits included suppressing the Revolt of the Three Feudatories and the conquest of Taiwan from Ming loyalists.
During Kangxi’s reign, the Treaty of Nerchinsk demarcated the border between the Qing Empire and this country, which later signed the 1858 Treaty of Aigun with China bringing the border to the Amur River.
Qing Dynasty [or Empire of the Great Qing; or Da Qing Diguo]
Kangxi Emperor [or Emperor Ren of Qing; or Qing Rendi; or Shengzu of Qing; or Qing Shengzu; or Aisin-Gioro Hiowan Yei; or Aixin-Jueluo Xuanye]
Russia [or Russian Empire; or Rossiyskaya imperiya]
Answer the following about the British Labour Party, for 10 points each.
For most of the 20th century, this party of Winston Churchill and Margaret Thatcher has been the main opposition to the Labour Party.
Margaret Thatcher defeated James Callaghan after this 1978 to 1979 period of widespread strikes, which takes its name from a line from Shakespeare.
This Labour prime minister defeated Winston Churchill in the 1945 election. His Minister of Health Aneurin Bevan was instrumental in implementing the National Health Service.
Conservative and Union Party [or Tories]
Winter of Discontent
Clement Attlee [or Clement Richard Attlee, 1st Earl Attlee]
This man once “accidentally” dropped some fresh figs on the Senate floor to show that Carthage was only three days away by sea from Rome. For 10 points each:
Identify this Roman senator whose hatred of Carthage led him to end every speech with “Carthago delenda est,” or “Carthage must be destroyed.”
Cato the Elder’s great-grandson, Cato the Younger, was famous for his opposition to this Roman dictator, who won a civil war against Pompey.
Cato the Younger was part of this conservative group in the Senate, contrasted with the Populares. This group, whose members included Sulla and Cicero, supported the Roman aristocracy and opposed the plebeian councils.
Cato the Elder [or Cato the Censor; or Marcus Porcius Cato; or Cato the Wise; or Cato the Ancient; prompt on Cato; do not accept or prompt on Marcus Porcius Cato Uticensis because that refers to Cato the Younger]
Gaius Julius Caesar
Optimates
To get his father Murad II to fight the Battle of Varna, this ruler wrote a letter to him demanding “If you are the sultan, come and lead your armies. If I am the sultan, I order you to lead my armies.” For 10 points each:
Name this ruler, who at the age of twenty-one, ended the Byzantine Empire by capturing its capital of Constantinople in 1453.
After Mehmet II’s victory, Constantinople was renamed Istanbul and served as the capital of this empire until its fall over five hundred years later.
Mehmet II set a precedent for this practice when he succeeded to the throne. Since the Ottomans did not practice primogeniture, all Ottoman sultans adhered to this practice until 1603, when Ahmed I put Mustafa into a kafes instead.
Mehmet II [or Mehmet the Conqueror; or Fatih Sultan Mehmet; or Mahomet II; or Mohammed II; prompt on Mehmet]
Ottoman Empire [or Devlet-i ʿAlīye-i ʿOsmānīye; or Osmanlı Devleti]
killing all his male relatives [accept more specific answers such as killing all his brothers; accept fratricide; prompt on less specific answers such as killing his family or killing all possible claimants to the throne; do not accept or prompt on killing specific family members or killing family members that aren’t male]
Name the following members of Andrew Jackson’s Cabinet, for 10 points each.
As Secretary of the Treasury, this man was vital in killing the Bank of the United States by ending federal deposits in the Bank. Jackson nominated this man as Chief Justice, during which he presided over the infamous Dred Scott case.
This Secretary of State succeeded John C. Calhoun as Jackson’s Vice President, before becoming President himself in 1837. This “Little Magician” later ran for president again in 1848 for the Free Soil Party.
This Secretary of War resigned after he and his wife Peggy were snubbed by other cabinet members’ wives in the Petticoat Affair, after which all but one member of Jackson’s cabinet resigned.
Roger Brooke Taney
Martin Van Buren
John Henry Eaton
This man’s most famous work discusses the Battle of Sphacteria and the Sicilian Expedition in its eight books. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the History of the Peloponnesian War.
One of the best-known parts of the History of the Peloponnesian War is a speech given at one of these events by Pericles, who gave the speech to honor fallen Athenian war dead.
Another oft-quoted section of the History of the Peloponnesian War is a dialogue between representatives of Athens and this island. After this island refused to surrender to Athens, it was brutally destroyed.
Thucydides [or Thoukudídēs]
funerals [or Pericles’ funeral oration]
Melos [or Milos; accept the Melian Dialogue]
Answer this bonus about the life of Yang Kyoungjong to find out how a Korean conscript somehow ended up in the hands of American troops who landed at D-Day. For 10 points each:
Yang was serving in the Kwantung Army when he was captured by the Soviets at this 1939 border clash. This Japanese defeat was key in their decision to invade Southeast Asia and the Pacific rather than the Soviet Union.
After being conscripted into the Red Army, Yang was sent to the Eastern Front, where he was once again captured by this army. This army invaded the Soviet Union in Operation Barbarossa.
The Nazis conscripted Yang once again and sent him to Normandy as part of the “Atlantic Wall” near Utah Beach, which, along with this deadliest Normandy beach, were the two beaches assigned to United States forces.
Battles of Khalkhin Gol [or the Nomonhan Incident]
German army [or the Nazi Army; or the Wehrmacht; accept army of the Third Reich; do not accept or prompt on Imperial German Army or any other Reich]
Omaha Beach
Thomas Chittenden served as the first and third governor of this state during its short-lived period as an independent republic. For 10 points each:
Name this state, the first state to be admitted that was not one of the original 13 colonies. The Green Mountain Boys used the Catamount Tavern in this state to plan attacks on the British, such as the capture of Fort Ticonderoga.
Ethan Allen and this man led the small force that seized Fort Ticonderoga. This husband of Peggy Shippen conspired with John Andre to surrender West Point to the British.
This man directed the “noble train of artillery”: hauling heavy British howitzers and cannons captured at Fort Ticonderoga across Massachusetts to Dorchester Heights, where they were used to end the siege of Boston.
Vermont [accept Vermont Republic]
Benedict Arnold
Henry Knox
For 10 points each, answer the following about the history of communist “Whoa-mania.”
This longtime dictator of Romania was executed along with his wife Elena after a military show trial on Christmas Day, 1989, found him guilty of genocide, among other crimes.
In order to increase Romania’s population, Ceaușescu passed Decree 770, which banned this practice. As a result of the ban, many children ended up in orphanages because their parents could not afford to raise so many children.
In an August 21, 1968 speech, Ceaușescu condemned this military action, which Romania notably refused to participate in. Students Jan Palach and Jan Zajic self-immolated to protest this action.
Nicolae Ceaușescu
abortion [prompt on descriptive answers like terminating a pregnancy; prompt on birth control; prompt on contraception]
Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia [or Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia; or Operation Danube; accept occupation of Czechoslovakia; prompt on ending the Prague Spring or other equivalents that don’t mention an invasion or military occupation]
This man’s last words at the Battle of Cerro Cora were a defiant “I die with my nation!” after which he was buried by his Irish mistress Eliza Lynch. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who led his country into a war against an alliance of Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, which killed more than half of his nation’s total population.
Solano López led this nation, the instigator and loser of the War of the Triple Alliance. Ironically, Solano López was portrayed as a patriotic hero by this country during the Chaco War against Bolivia.
The Chaco War was fought in part for control of the Paraguay River, which was important because both Bolivia and Paraguay are the only two South American nations to be this kind of country.
Francisco Solano López [prompt on just Lopez]
Republic of Paraguay [or República de Paraguay]
landlocked [prompt on descriptive answers indicating not having access to the sea]
The marriage of Ferdinand and Isabella in 1469 led to the political union of Spain. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom ruled by Ferdinand II when it was united with Castile.
Ferdinand and Isabella ended this last Muslim dynasty in Spain, which built the Alhambra. Its last ruler Muhammad XII surrendered after the siege of Granada.
This grandson of Ferdinand and Isabella was both king of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor. The Council of Trent and the Diet of Worms were convened under his rule.
Kingdom of Aragon [or Reino d’Aragón; or Regne d’Aragó; or Regnum Aragonum; or Reino de Aragón]
Nasrid Dynasty [or banū Naṣr]
Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire [or Charles I of Spain; prompt on just Charles I; prompt on Charles]
The Western Rebellion and Kett’s Rebellion occurred during this man’s reign. For 10 points each:
Name this only son of a Tudor monarch, born to Jane Seymour. His early death at the age of fifteen led to the brief nine-day reign of Lady Jane Grey.
Edward VI was the only son of this king with six wives. This king’s inability to annul his marriage from Catherine of Aragon prompted him to establish the Anglican Church.
Henry VIII’s advisors included a man with this surname, who was executed after he provided Henry VIII with the notoriously ugly Anne of Cleves. Two later men with this surname ruled over the Protectorate.
Edward VI [prompt on Edward]
Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]
Cromwell [accept Thomas Cromwell; accept Oliver Cromwell; accept Richard Cromwell]
The failed Operation Eagle Claw during this event resulted in the resignation of Secretary of State Cyrus Vance. For 10 points each:
Name this 444-day event that followed the 1979 storming of the American embassy in its namesake country. This event ended on the day of Ronald Reagan’s inauguration.
The Iran Hostage Crisis contributed to Ronald Reagan’s victory over this man in the 1980 presidential election. This president’s achievements include brokering the Camp David Accords.
This ABC News television program evolved out of nightly coverage of the Iran Hostage Crisis called America Held Hostage. This late-night program was anchored for 25 years by Ted Koppel.
Iran Hostage Crisis
Jimmy Carter [or James Earl Carter, Jr.]
Nightline
After this ruler won a battle fought on the slopes of Mount Chimborazo, an opposing general named Atoc was killed and his body gruesomely mutilated. For 10 points each:
Name this victor of a civil war against his brother Huascar, who later was captured by Spanish forces at the Battle of Cajamarca.
Atahualpa was the last emperor of this Andean empire, which was conquered by Spaniards led by Francisco Pizarro.
Pizarro offered to set Atahualpa free for a ransom of one of these non-standard units of gold and two of silver. After Atahualpa paid the ransom, the Spaniards, their insatiable greed somewhat satisfied, killed him anyway.
Atahualpa
Incan Empire [or Tawantinsuyu]
roomful of gold [or roomful of silver; accept Ransom Room]
This kingdom’s ruler Gwanggaeto the Great erected a massive stele on the banks of the Yalu River detailing its history. For 10 points each:
Name this northernmost of Korea’s Three Kingdoms, which repelled an invading Sui Dynasty army of more than 300,000 soldiers by drowning almost all of them at the Battle of the Salsu River.
The Sui Dynasty’s disastrous expedition against Goguryeo helped lead to the establishment of this dynasty. This dynasty, which was ruled by the Li family, was greatly weakened by the An Lushan rebellion in the 8th century.
The rule of the Tang Dynasty was interrupted by the Zhou Dynasty, whose only ruler was this only female emperor of China to rule in her own right.
Goguryeo [do not prompt on or accept “Goryeo”]
Tang Dynasty
Wu Zetian [or Wu Hou; or Empress Wu; or Wu Zhao]
Many leaders of this rebellion, including James Connolly and Patrick Pearse, were executed by firing squad at Kilmainham Gaol (“jail”). For 10 points each:
Name this April 1916 uprising, named for a holiday, that sought an independent Irish Republic. William Butler Yeats memorialized it in a poem that repeats “A terrible beauty is born.”
This country tried to smuggle arms to rebels in preparation for the Easter Rising by sending the Libau, disguised as the Norwegian merchant ship Aud, to Ireland. Britain was at war with this country in 1916 as part of World War I.
This man planned to meet the Aud, but his plans went awry when he was captured on Banna Beach and hanged as a traitor. This author of a report on the horrors of the Belgian Congo was smeared by the British for his homosexuality.
Easter Rising [or Easter Rebellion; accept “Easter, 1916”]
Germany [or German Empire; or Deutschland; or Deutsches Kaiserreich; accept the Second Reich; do not accept or prompt on any other Reichs]
Roger Casement [accept Casement Report]
Answer the following about the Bronze Horseman, for 10 points each.
The Bronze Horseman depicts this Westernizing czar of Russia, who curbed the powers of the boyars and won the Great Northern War.
The Bronze Horseman is located in Senate Square, where members of this 1825 movement chanted “Constantine and Constitution!” to show their support for Constantine, the elder brother of the newly-crowned czar Nicholas I.
Peter’s horse tramples one of these creatures, which represents his enemies. Figurines depicting large-breasted women holding two of these creatures were found in the Minoan palace of Knossos.
Peter I [or Peter the Great; prompt on Peter]
Decembrist revolt [or Vosstanie dekabristov]
snakes [or serpents; accept Snake Goddess; accept Snake Priestess]
Pace v. Alabama upheld the felony conviction of Tony Pace and Mary Cox, who were accused of violating a law prohibiting this practice, on the grounds that the law in question did not violate the 14th Amendment’s Equal Protection Clause because both parties were punished equally. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, which became legal in all states after the Supreme Court struck down all laws banning it in Loving v. Virginia.
Loving v. Virginia was cited as a precedent in this June 2015 court case, which overturned Baker v. Nelson, legalizing homosexual marriage.
Both Loving v. Virginia and Obergefell v. Hodges are accused of being this type of ruling, in which a case is decided based on personal or political leanings, rather than from a purely constitutional standpoint.
interracial marriage [accept miscegenation; accept descriptive answers such as a white person marrying a black person]
Obergefell v. Hodges [prompt on Obergefell v. Hodges]
judicial activism
Chariot racing used to be super popular. For 10 points each:
Bigae chariots were pulled by two of these animals, while the quadriga was pulled by four of them. Cavalry are troops mounted on these hooved animals.
In the Byzantine Empire, these two chariot-racing factions often fought each other in massive brawls that soccer hooligans would be proud of, but united to turn against Justinian in the Nika riots. Name both.
Back in Rome, chariot races would often take place in this largest Roman stadium, which centered around an elongated dirt track.
horses [accept equus]
Blues and Greens
Circus Maximus
For 10 points each, answer the following about American snipers.
Famous sniper Carlos Hathcock killed an enemy sniper by shooting him through his scope during this war. American involvement in this Southeast Asian war escalated after the Gulf of Tonkin incident.
Gary Gordon was a sniper who was killed helping protect soldiers extracting the crew of a downed Black Hawk in this city. The United States attempted to oust dictator Mohamed Farrah Aidid, who ruled from this city.
The Beltway sniper attacks, which killed 10 people near Washington, D.C., was carried out by John Allen Muhammad, who was part of this organization. Malcolm X was a member of this organization before he repudiated it in 1964.
Vietnam War
Mogadishu
Nation of Islam [do not accept or prompt on Islam]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the Bosnian War.
The Bosnian War took place in this decade. Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union both dissolved early in this decade.
During the Bosnian War, over 8,000 Muslim civilians were killed in this massacre that took place in a UN safe zone protected by Dutchbat soldiers.
This first president of Serbia was charged with committing war crimes during the Bosnian war, but died during his trial.
1990s
Srebrenica Massacre
Slobodan Milošević
Richard Nixon called this leader both a “clever fox” and a “witch”. For 10 points each:
Name this female prime minister of India who was assassinated in 1984. She was the daughter of India's first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru.
Indira Gandhi was assassinated shortly after ordering Operation Blue Star, in which the Indian army entered this city, angering adherents of a certain religion and probably fueling her murder by her own bodyguards.
In 1974, during Indira Gandhi's ministry, India successfully detonated a nuclear bomb for the first time during a test commonly known by this two-word English name.
Indira Gandhi [prompt on Nehru]
Amritsar
Smiling Buddha [prompt on Pokhran-I] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Edward Coke said this institution was “the most honorable court...in the Christian world”. For 10 points each:
Name this English court of law that met at the Palace of Westminster. While started by Henry VII to take on the gentry, it eventually developed a reputation as a court that dished out arbitrary rulings that favored the king.
By the time of this English house's rule, the Star Chamber was seen as the king's tool for punishing dissidents. This house included such members as James I and his son, Charles I.
This diminutive Archbishop of Canterbury utilized the Star Chamber to punish religious dissidents like William Prynne during the reign of Charles I. He was arrested by the Long Parliament and later executed.
Star Chamber
House of Stuart
William Laud &lt;Cheyne&gt;
In January 2009, this man was attacked by his pet poodle, Sumo. For 10 points each:
Name this conservative president who won reelection in his country in 2002 by defeating a controversial candidate from the National Front Party. He previously had served as prime minister in a “cohabitation” system with the non-conservative president Francois Mitterrand.
Mitterrand was a leader of this left-wing party, whose more recent members included Segolene Royal and current president Francois Hollande.
During the Mitterrand presidency, France passed the Gayssot Act, which effectively made this specific behavior a crime. Professor Robert Faurisson was removed from his academic post for doing this, and David Irving is presumably no longer welcome in France because of his history of doing this.
Jacques Chirac
Socialist Party of France
Holocaust denial [prompt on genocide denial or similar answers] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This politician declared he was not “Boss Crump's pet coon”. For 10 points each:
Name this Tennessee Senator who chaired a 1950's special committee that investigated organized crime. He was Adlai Stevenson's running mate in the presidential election of 1956.
Stevenson, of course, lost the presidency in both 1952 and 1956 to this beloved Republican hero of World War II.
Kefauver was one of four Southern Democrats in the Senate not to sign the 1956 Southern Manifesto denouncing integration. This powerful Senate Majority Leader from 1955 to 1961, another holdout, was notorious for using the physically intimidating “Treatment” to influence other Senators.
(Carey) Estes Kefauver
Dwight David Eisenhower [prompt on Ike]
Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This government was largely controlled by the Hojo clan. For 10 points each:
Name this government whose leaders included members from the Minamoto and Fujiwara clans. This government resisted Mongol invasions by Kublai Khan in the 1200s.
The Mongol invasions of Japan were partially foiled by massive storms, which the Japanese referred to with this word that means “divine wind”. It was later used during World War II to refer to suicide attacks from pilots.
The Kamakura shogunate was formed after the downfall of the Taira clan in the Genpei War; during the war, Minamoto no Yoritomo decisively defeated the Taira clan at this 1185 naval battle. The imperial sword, Kusanagi, was supposedly thrown into the sea during this battle.
Kamakura shogunate
kamikaze
Battle of Dan-no-ura &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A leader of this country was known as “bottlecaps” for wearing lots of medals. For 10 points each:
Name this Latin American country whose dictator was killed in a roadside ambush in May 1961; that man's brutal regime perpetrated the Parsley Massacre on migrants from a neighboring country and was responsible for the death of the dissident Mirabal sisters.
The Parsley Massacre was perpetrated against migrants from this other Caribbean country, which shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic.
After one leader of this country, Romulo Betancourt, denounced Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo, Trujillo's goons tried to kill Betancourt with a car bomb in 1960; however, the bomb only wounded Betancourt.
Dominican Republic [or La Dominicana]
Republic of Haiti [or Ayiti]
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This controversy led to the brutal execution of Stephen the Younger. For 10 points each:
Name this tumultuous controversy that began with the policies of Emperor Leo III the Isaurian, who believed the empire was losing God's favor. The empress Theodora settled this controversy with the “Triumph of Orthodoxy”.
Leo III's iconoclastic policies were supported by his son and successor, the fifth Byzantine ruler to have this name. The “great” ruler with this name defeated Maxentius at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge after allegedly seeing a cross in the sky.
Constantine V was mocked by his opponents, who gave him an epithet with this embarrassing meaning, perhaps related to an incident during his baptism.
iconoclasm [accept any answer involving controversy over veneration of icons]
Constantine
dung-named [or Kopronymos; or kopros; or feces; or defecation; or anything in this vein] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This conflict is frequently said to begin with Pelagius's victory at the Battle of Covadonga. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict that lasted over 700 years and ended with the fall of Granada and the defeat of the Almohads.
The fall of Granada occurred in what year, which was also when Christopher Columbus set sail on his first voyage to America?
This 1212 battle was a huge defeat for the Almohads in Andalusia at the hands of various Christian Iberian kingdoms. It set in motion a process that, by the end of the century, reduced Muslim presence in Spain to basically just Granada.
Reconquista [or Reconquest]
1492
Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa &lt;Cheyne&gt;
According to Wikipedia, this man's father dropped him off at a school with 50 cents and a sack of clothes. For 10 points each:
Name this railroad magnate who boasted he could hire one half of the working class to kill the other half. A one-time head of the Erie Railroad, he is best known for recruiting the President's brother-in-law, Abel Corbin, as part of a speculation scheme.
Around the same time as Gould's scheme was this scandal in which Congressmen received shares of stock in a construction company that was building the eastern portion of the Transcontinental Railroad. It implicated Vice-President Schuyler Colfax.
Gould's attempt to corner the gold market and the Credit Mobilier scandals both took place in the administration of this President, a scandal-plagued former Civil War general.
Jason “Jay” Gould
Credit Mobilier of America scandal
Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
. Teddy Roosevelt said there was “no more despicable character” in American history than this man. For 10 points each:
Name this first governor of the Louisiana Territory and veteran of the American Revolution. A potential Spanish agent, he apparently plotted with Aaron Burr to take over western territories, although he eventually ratted Burr out.
Wilkinson was succeeded as territorial governor by this man, an explorer and one-time partner of William Clark.
During the Revolution, Wilkinson was part of the Conway Cabal's attempt to replace George Washington as Continental Army commander with this man, the hero of the Battle of Saratoga.
James Wilkinson
Meriwether Lewis
Horatio Lloyd Gates &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about the European colonial power we all forget: Portugal. For 10 points each:
Portugal's “Age of Exploration” was fueled by this Portuguese royal member, the third child of King John I. Known as the “Navigator”, he sponsored numerous voyages of discovery.
This 1494 treaty divided the newly discovered lands outside of Europe between Portugal and Spain, The line of demarcation was halfway between the Cape Verde Islands and the Caribbean islands of Cuba and Hispaniola.
Henry convinced Portugal to conquer this city on the north coast of Africa in 1415. By taking this city from the Marinids, Portugal began to establish an overseas empire.
Henry the Navigator [or Henrique]
Treaty of Tordesillas
Ceuta &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This ruler is one of the possible inspirations for the biblical hunter Nimrod. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the ancient Akkadian empire. Known as the “Great”, he started as the cup-bearer of the king of Kish and formed the empire by conquering numerous Sumerian city-states.
Some ancient accounts state Sargon built this city, which became the center of Hammurabi's empire. It later had famous “hanging gardens”.
Babylon was sacked by this king, who conquered much of the Middle East for the neo-Assyrian empire. He conquered the Medes, Persians, and Babylonians and began a destruction of the northern kingdom of Israel that was finalized by his son, Shalmaneser V. Only his royal name, not his number, is needed.
Sargon the Great [or Sargon I; do not accept “Sargon I of Assyria”]
Babylon
Tiglath-Pileser III &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This conflict featured an entire island's population being massacred at Psara. For 10 points each:
Name this 1820s European conflict that also featured a massacre at Chios. The poet Lord Byron died during this conflict.
This 1827 battle in the Greek war for independence featured three European powers destroying the Ottoman navy and saving the Greek Republic from collapse, which led to a push for the Ottomans to recognize Greece.
This European power was considered the strongest ally of Greek independence, although it had a tense relationship with other European countries. It lost the Crimean War to a British-led coalition.
 Greek war for independence
Battle of Navarino
 Russian Empire &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Much of this institution's equipment was intentionally destroyed at Scapa Flow. For 10 points each:
Name this institution that lost the Battle of Dogger Bank and fought an inconclusive battle against John Jellicoe's force at the Battle of Jutland.
During World War I, the Germans used submarines to prey on their enemies' commercial shipping. This anglicized term became the standard way to refer to any German submarine.
This man basically led the Imperial German Navy from 1897 to 1916. Influenced by Alfred Mahan, he modernized the fleet but eventually fell out of favor and resigned.
Imperial German Navy [or Prussian Navy; do not accept “Nazi Navy” or “Reich Navy”]
U-boat [or U-boot; or Unterseeboot]
Alfred von Tirpitz &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A modern-day practitioner of this school of thought may be Gertrude Himmelfarb. For 10 points each:
Name this English school of thought whose name was coined by Herbert Butterfield. As seen in the writings of Thomas Macaulay, it believes that history is inevitably proceeding towards greater liberty and enlightenment.
This later historian was heavily Whig in nature and won a Nobel Prize for such histories as the four-volume A History of the English Speaking Peoples, finished in 1958, and his mammoth six-volume series titled The Second World War, which begins with The Gathering Storm.
“The so-called “founder” of English history was this monk who wrote an 8th century ecclesiastical history of England and was known as “Venerable”.
Whig history [or Whiggery]
Winston Churchill [or Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill]
Saint Bede [or the Venerable Bede] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about the speeches of the Great Communicator, Ronald Reagan, for 10 points each.
Rappin' Ronnie once told Mikhail Gorbachev to “tear down” what imposing symbol of Communist power separating a divided Germany?
Reagan said the future “belongs to the brave” in addressing the nation after this event. In that speech, he famously quoted a poem in describing people who “slipped the surly bonds of Earth” to “touch the face of God”.
In a debate with this man in Nashua, New Hampshire, Reagan once angrily said “I am paying for this microphone” after his mic was muted. This man boasted going into the debate that he had the “Big Mo”, referring to momentum.
Berlin Wall [or Berliner Mauer]
Space Shuttle Challenger disaster
George Herbert Walker Bush [or Bush the elder; do not accept “George W. Bush”] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
After around 250,000 people died during a battle in this war, the Daya River supposedly turned red. For 10 points each:
Name this war that began in 261 BCE and deeply shook the victorious ruler, a son of Bindusara.
The Kalinga War was a victory for the Mauryan ruler Ashoka, who was so disturbed by the bloodshed that he converted to this religion.
At the Buddhist site of Sarnath, atop his namesake pillar, Ashoka placed a sculpture of four of these animals; that sculpture with these animals now serves as India's national emblem.
Kalinga War
Buddhism
Asiatic lions [or Indian lions; or Persian lions] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
One of the longest serving people in this group was Elijah Paine, who was in office until 1842. For 10 points each:
Give the two-word colloquial name for this group of men appointed in the waning days of a certain president's administration, the most notable of which were John Marshall and William Marbury.
This president, the second in U.S. history, appointed the midnight judges before turning the presidency over to Thomas Jefferson.
This 1810 case of the Marshall Court is cited as the first time the Supreme Court struck down a state law as unconstitutional. This case involved land speculators on Yazoo tribal lands in Georgia.
midnight judges [or midnight justices; or midnight appointments]
John Adams [do not accept “John Quincy Adams”]
Fletcher v. Peck [or Fletcher v. Peck; accept in alternate order] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Hundreds of members of this group were arrested on October 13, 1307, which may have contributed to the idea that Friday the 13th is unlucky. For 10 points each:
Name this group whose leader Jacques de Molay was burned at the stake on the orders of Philip IV of France and Pope Clement V, who regarded this group as a bunch of heretics; both Clement and Philip died less than a year later.
Clement V is also known as the pope who moved the papacy from Rome to this French city.
Philip IV was one of the last French kings to try to establish an alliance with these people to fight Muslims; that long-proposed semi-hypothetical alliance was supported by folks like Bohemond VI but fell through after these people offered no help to Europeans during the siege of Ruad.
Knights Templar [or Templars; or Order of Solomon's Temple; or Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon]
Avignon
Mongols [or Mongol Empire; do not accept or prompt on “Chinese”] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
The New Fourth Army incident occurred during a theoretical suspension of this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this war that lasted, off and on, from 1927 to 1950. It ended with the Kuomintang forced to set up a new government after being forced out of the mainland.
This man founded the Red Army during the Chinese Civil War. The first chairman of the Communist Party of China, he set up a cult of personality during his years controlling communist China.
During the Chinese Civil War, Mao led Communist forces on the Long March, traversing 6,000 miles in 370 days to escape Kuomintang forces; the march began in this southeastern Chinese province, the center of early Chinese communism. Nanchang is this province's largest city.
Chinese Civil War [or Chinese Communist Revolution]
Mao Zedong
Jiangxi [or Kongsi] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about people referred to as the “Last of the Romans”, for 10 points each.
The term is sometimes applied to Aetius, a general who defeated these people and their leader Attila at the Battle of the Catalaunian Fields.
The term is also sometimes used to refer to Emperor Valens, who was killed in this catastrophic 378 battle against the Goths under Fritigern that was fought in modern-day Turkey.
This half-Vandal Roman general is also sometimes called the “last of the Romans”. The regent for Emperor Honorius, he successfully fought Alaric for years; many historians believe this man's execution may have led to the 410 sack of Rome.
Huns
Battle of Adrianople
Flavius Stilicho [or Stilico] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
The Lodge Committee investigated war crimes during this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this very bloody 1899 to 1902 war which featured fighting for many years afterwards. In 1902, veterans from this war founded the Tagalog Republic shortly after the capture of rebel leader Emilio Aguinaldo.
This U.S. Army General captured Aguinaldo during the war. He later declared martial law after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. Mark Twain wrote a sarcastic “defence” of this man's brutal wartime actions.
This pro-expansion President pardoned those who participated in the Philippine conflict. He was formerly the leader of the Rough Riders during the Spanish-American War.
Philippine-American War [or Filipino-American War; or Philippine rebellion; or Filipino rebellion; do not accept “Philippine-Spanish War”]
Frederick Funston
Theodore “Teddy” Roosevelt [or TR] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
An iconic image of this event is of a youth carrying a dying student named Hector Pieterson. For 10 points each:
What June 1976 event featured high school students violently clashing with police after the students objected to being taught not in English or indigenous languages but in a language they regarded as oppressive?
The Soweto uprising occurred in this country, then very much a proponent of the racial policy of apartheid.
This political party organized many of the students during the Soweto uprising. Its military wing was known as the Spear of the Nation, and it is the party of current South African president Jacob Zuma.
Soweto uprising
Republic of South Africa
African National Congress [or ANC; or South African Native National Congress; or SANNC] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about Russian hero Alexander Nevsky, for 10 points each.
“Alexander Nevsky was the son of a man with this name. A more famous Russian with this name was a Grand Prince of Kiev and Novgorod known as the “Wise”.
Nevsky defeated the Teutonic Knights in this April 1242 battle at Lake Peipus, which smashed the eastward expansion of the Knights.
A female Russian ruler with this name created the Imperial Order of St. Alexander Nevsky. A more famous female Russian ruler with this name was served by men like Grigory Potemkin.
Yaroslav
Battle on the ice
Catherine [or Catherine the Great, number does not matter; or Yekaterina] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
An adherent of this political philosophy was married to Diana Mitford. For 10 points each:
Name this political philosophy subscribed to by the controversial British activist Oswald Mosley, who led his followers against anarchists and other protesters in the 1936 Battle of Cable Street in London.
A colleague of Mosley's was William Joyce, who used this name during radio broadcasts in which he nasally proclaimed “Germany calling” and obnoxiously laughed, in an attempt to lower the English people's wartime morale.
Mosley lost much of his support in the U.K. after Germany began bombing London and other cities in this massive aerial campaign during the early 1940's.
fascism [accept word forms, do not accept “Nazism”]
Lord Haw-Haw
The Blitz [or the Battle of Britain] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
. Events in this city may have led to a retaliatory explosion near the apartment block of Sheikh Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle Eastern city where 241 American servicemen were killed in a 1983 barracks bombing, the deadliest one-day result for the U.S. military since the Tet Offensive.
The Beirut barracks bombing was blamed on the governments of Syria and this other country, whose Supreme Leader is Ali Khamenei, the successor to the Ayatollah Khomeini.
The bombing occurred about a year after a right-wing Christian Lebanese group massacred Shiites in the Sabra neighborhood of Beirut and this refugee camp adjacent to Sabra. The massacres were given a name referring to both Sabra and this place.
Beirut
Islamic Republic of Iran [or Persia]
Shatila refugee camp &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Aristophanes noted that this man had a pronounced lisp and used that as comedic fodder in <em>The Wasps</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Athenian statesman and orator who, for various reasons, kept defecting to serve Sparta and the Persians. He was the principal proponent of the ultimately failed Sicilian Expedition, which he did not get a chance to actually lead.
The Sicilian Expedition was proposed during this lengthy war, which primarily pitted Athens against Sparta.
During the Peloponnesian War, Alcibiades and other Athenians decisively won this 410 BCE naval battle in which most of the Spartan fleet was sunk; the Spartans sued for peace, but the Athenians rejected the offer, only to lose the war a few years later.
Alcibiades
Peloponnesian War
Battle of Cyzicus &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This group kidnapped U.S. General James Dozier. For 10 points each:
“Name this leftist group best known for abducting and then killing former Christian Democratic prime minister Aldo Moro in 1978. This group was very active during the “years of lead”.
The Red Brigades were active in this European country that is frequently led by Silvio Berlusconi.
This political science professor and Marxist philosopher was arrested for potential involvement in the Moro kidnapping. He was elected to the legislature while still in prison and later fled to France but eventually returned to finish a prison term.
Red Brigades [or BR; or Brigate Rosse]
Italy [or the Italian Republic]
Antonio Negri &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Four days after this event, a counter-protest led to the Hard Hat Riot. For 10 points each:
Name these May 4, 1970, shootings that took place on the campus of an Ohio university. Four students were killed when the National Guard fired on anti-Vietnam War protesters.
The protest on Kent State was specifically directed against this decision announced by Richard Nixon on April 30, which controversially expanded the Vietnam War to another country.
This classic 1974 documentary heavily critiqued the Vietnam War. Its name comes from a speech in which Lyndon Johnson said victory in Vietnam was dependent on two things within the Vietnamese people.
Kent State shootings
invasion of the Kingdom of Cambodia [or Cambodian campaign]
Hearts and Minds &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Wikipedia notes that the founder of this dynasty only had two concubines. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese dynasty founded by Emperor Wen and probably best known for creating the Grand Canal.
The Grand Canal linked the Yellow River with this other major Chinese river, the longest river in Asia.
The Sui dynasty's collapse was partially due to its series of disastrous campaigns against this Korean kingdom, one of the three ancient kingdoms of Korea. This kingdom utterly demolished Sui forces at the Battle of Salsu.
Sui (“sway”) dynasty
Yangtze River [prompt on Chang Jiang]
Goguryeo [or Goryeo] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
During this event, Lawrence Keitt brandished a gun and shouted “Let them be!” For 10 points each:
Name this May 1856 event perpetrated by Preston Brooks in revenge for another man's offensive speech attacking Andrew Butler for Butler's support of the “harlot” slavery.
Sumner's speech was about the violence that tore apart this newly created U.S. state over the issue of slavery. Border ruffians poured into here, which led to the nickname of “bleeding” applied to this state.
This Kentucky Senator tried to break up Sumner's caning. A former Attorney General, he is best known for introducing a December 1860 proposal of six constitutional amendments to prevent the Civil War from happening.
the caning of Charles Sumner [accept synonyms like assault instead of caning]
Kansas
John Jordan Crittenden &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This man said in an interview that he supplied “more heroin, methamphetamine, cocaine, and marijuana than anybody else in the world”. For 10 points each:
Name this head of the Sinaloa Cartel, who has escaped twice from prison in Mexico and was captured once again following a raid on a house in Los Mochis in January 2016.
This operation run by Mexican marines led to the capture of El Chapo. An edited 15-minute video of this operation that was captured on GoPros was released shortly after this operation ended.
In October 2015, El Chapo was interviewed for this magazine by Sean Penn and Kate del Castillo, which reportedly helped lead to his capture.
El Chapo [or Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera]
Operation Black Swan [or Cisne Negro]
Rolling Stone &lt;Gehring&gt;
This city was the primary site of a coup that was defused when a former mayor climbed on top of one of the tanks guarding the White House. For 10 points each:
Name this non-American city that was the site of a failed coup in August of 1991.
That coup attempt occurred during the presidency of this man, the final leader of the Soviet Union. Boris Yeltsin snatched away much of his power in his final days in office. He is best known for a goofy-shaped mark on his head.
In the aftermath of the breakup of the Soviet Union, many new governments were created. These two former states have had the same authoritarian leaders, Presidents Karimov and Nazarbayev, in power since 1991.
Moscow
Mikhail Gorbachev
Republic of Kazakhstan AND Republic of Uzbekistan [need both in either order] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A river ran black with ink from the books of this city's library during a siege. For 10 points each:
Name this city where Al-Musta'sim was rolled up in a carpet by the Mongols and trampled to death during its 1258 conquest. Its fabled House of Wisdom, a center for intellectual study, was also destroyed.
The sack of Baghdad ended the most successful period of the Abbasid caliphate, which was descended from an uncle of this man, the founder of Islam.
The House of Wisdom in Baghdad was founded by this Abbasid ruler, whose surname translates as “the just”. He legendarily sent a clock to Charlemagne that amazed the Frankish court.
Baghdad
Muhammad
Harun al-Rashid &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This cause was the chief goal of Thomas Clarkson and succeeded with a law passed in 1807. For 10 points each:
Name this cause, which in England was more famously advocated by William Wilberforce and by John Newton, who had once held the specific occupation this cause opposed.
Newton is perhaps more famous as a writer of hymns, including this song that notes the title concept “saved a wretch like me”.
This famous English pottery magnate created an anti-slavery medallion that depicted a slave and read “Am I Not a Man and a Brother?” This man's namesake pottery company created such products as “Queen's Ware” and jasperware.
abolishing the slave trade [accept synonyms for “abolishing”, but prompt on abolition alone; do not accept “ending slavery”]
“Amazing Grace”
Josiah Wedgwood &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Welcome to the annual Mike Cheyne Memorial 10-5 Bonus. This year's theme is Minnesota's own Athelstan Spilhaus, who despite being a terrible father created the National Sea Grant program and perfected the bathythermograph. Identify the following things about him on a 10-5 basis.
Spilhaus planned an experimental city near Swatara, Minnesota with the help of this fellow futurist, who partnered with Shoji Sadao to design the Montreal Biosphère. [5] This man designed a map projection, a house, a car, and a personal "Chronofile", all of which he described with the term "Dymaxion". He also patented the geodesic dome.
In a Futurama episode titled in part for this place, Fry accidentally becomes his own grandfather after the untimely death of his original grandfather Enos. [5] Spilhaus's experiments with weather balloons as part of Project Mogul probably led to the UFO rumors surrounding this New Mexico site.
Spilhaus was appointed by John F. Kennedy to direct the United States exhibit at this event, a visit to which was depicted in the MST3K-featured short Century 21 Calling. [5] Kennedy bowed out of appearing at this event, for which the Space Needle was constructed, due to the ongoing Cuban Missile Crisis.
R. Buckminster Fuller [or Richard Buckminster Fuller; or Bucky Fuller]
Roswell, New Mexico [accept "Roswell That Ends Well"]
the 1962 World's Fair [or the Seattle World's Fair; prompt on Century 21 Exposition or partial answers] &lt;Carson/Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about historian Marc Bloch, for 10 points each.
Bloch documented how this practice was frequently used in medieval times to cure diseases such as scrofula. Bloch claimed it was a form of mass hysteria and noted that Philip I claimed to have this power.
Many of Bloch's books describe this medieval form of labor relations that featured lords, vassals, and fiefdoms.
Bloch was a historian from 1919 to 1936 at a university in this French city. This Alsatian city is where Louis the German and Charles the Bald pledged allegiance to each other prior to the Treaty of Verdun.
royal touch [accept answers that suggest a royal person is touching people; prompt on “faith healing” or “royal healing”]
feudalism
Strasbourg [or Strassburg; or Strossburi] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This country was once ruled by a former Napoleonic general, who established its current royal house. For 10 points each:
Name this country ruled by the House of Bernadotte. A ruler of this kingdom died at the Battle of Lutzen.
The aforementioned ruler who died at Lutzen was this Swedish king, who won the Battle of Breitenfeld during the Thirty Years' War.
In 1719, during Sweden's “Age of Liberty”, these rival similarly named political factions emerged. One of these factions wanted an alliance with Russia, the other one wanted an alliance with France. Name both.
Kingdom of Sweden [do not accept “Norway”]
Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf]
Caps and Hats [need both in either order; or Mossorna and Hattarna] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This man's son was killed by future Civil War general Daniel Sickles. For 10 points each:
Name this man who watched the bombardment of Fort McHenry and later combined his writing with a British folk tune.
While watching the bombardment, Key would write “Defence of Fort M'Henry”, a poem that was adapted into this song, the United States' national anthem.
Key himself prosecuted Richard Lawrence, an insane house painter who unsuccessfully tried to kill this person. Lawrence was foiled when both of his pistols misfired due to the moist weather.
Francis Scott Key
“The Star-Spangled Banner”
Andrew Jackson &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about conservatives who didn't like the New Deal for 10 points each.
This possible anti-Semite led the isolationist America First Committee. He is better known as being the first man to fly alone across the Atlantic Ocean.
Hugh S. Johnson, the former head of this agency, opposed FDR after the court-packing debacle. Symbolized by the Blue Eagle, this agency tried to create fair labor practices and was created by a similarly named 1933 law.
This Virginia Senator reportedly “came from his death bed” to the 1940 Democratic Convention to oppose FDR. A former Secretary of the Treasury under Wilson, he co-sponsored a controversial 1933 act that separated commercial and investment banking.
Charles Augustus Lindbergh [or Lucky Lindy]
The National Recovery Administration [or the NRA; do not accept “NIRA”]
Carter Glass &lt;Cheyne&gt;
In <em>This Half Has Never Been Told</em>, Edward Baptist argues for the importance of this system in funding industrialization in the early U.S. For 10 points:
Name this system. Baptist's work relies heavily on the narratives of people once involved in it collected by the Works Progress Administration.
In a book written with Stanley Engerman, this man agreed with Baptist's contention that slavery was profitable and in no danger of dying out. This historian argued that the absence of railroads would have been negligible for American economic growth, thanks to an expanded canal system.
Baptist focuses on the production of this crop, which was exported to English textile manufacturers. A 2014 book by Sven Beckert emphasizes the importance of this crop in creating global capitalism.
slavery
Robert Fogel
cotton &lt;Bailey&gt;
This group was headed by Leon Rom, who kept severed heads in his flower bed. For 10 points each:
Name this military organization that was originally used as a private police squad before becoming an official colonial military. This group's main responsibility was enforcing rubber quotas among natives, which could involve cutting off hands when quotas were not met.
The Force Publique enforced the law during the days of the Congo Free State, a private African colony that was controlled by a ruler from this European country. This country's colonial possessions effectively ended with the Congo, which was much larger than this nation.
This Belgian ruler personally controlled the Congo Free State before it became the government-run Belgian Congo. Numerous writers at the time criticized his bloody control of the Congo, during which possibly over 10 million people died.
Force Publique [or Public Force; or Openbare Weermacht]
Kingdom of Belgium [or Belgique; or Belgien]
Leopold II [prompt on “Leopold”] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
In 2014, this newspaper launched the website <em>Crux</em> for Catholic news. For 10 points each:
Name this New England newspaper whose “Spotlight” team's coverage of the sexual abuse trials of five Catholic priests thrust the scandal into the limelight in 2002, causing the resignation of its city's archbishop, Bernard Francis Law.
This other Northeastern bishop, who presided over Rochester, ran the radio show The Catholic Hour and the popular, Emmy-winning TV show Life Is Worth Living. He recited the burial scene from Julius Caesar, substituting the names of Soviet leaders, just before Stalin died.
Though Sheen is designated “Venerable” out of recognition for his “heroic virtues”, the cause for beatification and this process was halted in 2014. Catholics and other churches recognize saints through this process.
The Boston Globe [prompt on “Globe”]
Fulton John Sheen [or Peter John Sheen]
canonization [or word forms] &lt;Kothari&gt;
A loss for this empire was said to occur in a contest “between the two great families of the world” according to the book <em>The Fifteen Decisive Battles in History</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this empire that lost the Battle of the Metaurus, after which the losing commander's head was thrown into the camp of his brother, another commander for this empire.
This commander defeated the Romans at Cannae, though the Romans killed his brother Hasdrubal at Metaurus and he was ultimately defeated at Zama.
In the First Punic War between Roman and Carthage, the Romans made much use of this boarding device, a spiked bridge that allowed their forces to board Carthaginian ships. This device allowed the Romans to counter Carthage's naval superiority.
Carthage [or Carthaginian Empire]
Hannibal Barca
corvus [or harpago] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This ruler was known as the “Farmer”. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler during the Gordon Riots. Many historians have speculated he suffered from the genetic disease porphyria.
George III was reportedly ready to take up arms personally to fight the French until this British admiral defeated the Franco-Spanish fleet at the Battle of Trafalgar, only to die in the battle.
After the death of William Pitt the Younger, the king supported this Prime Minister's creation of the “Ministry of All the Talents”, which tried to cross party lines. This man was himself the son of the Prime Minister who had authored the Stamp Act.
George III
Horatio Nelson [or 1st Viscount Nelson]
William Grenville [or 1st Baron Grenville; do not accept “George Grenville”] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
These people have been theorized to be the Minoans or Philistines. For 10 points each:
Name these mysterious raiders with only a generic “official” name. They invaded Egypt at the end of the Bronze Age and likely had a hand in destroying other civilizations, like the Hittites.
Records of the Sea Peoples, or at least references to them, appear in documents during the reign of two pharaohs with this name. The second was known as the “great” and is considered the most powerful Egyptian ruler.
In the thirtieth year of his reign, Ramses II celebrated this religious festival that honored long-reigning rulers. Named for an Egyptian wolf god, this festival involved attaching a tail to the back of a pharaoh's garment and replaced the presumably less festive ritual of killing elderly pharaohs.
Sea Peoples [or People of the Sea]
Ramses [or Ramesses]
Sed festival [or Heb Sed] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This man was the prime supporter of a bizarre scheme to build a Jewish homeland in Uganda. For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian writer and statesman whose utopian novel The Old New Land contains his slogan, “If you will it, it is no dream”. He wrote The Jewish State to articulate his growing conviction of the impossibility of Jewish assimilation.
While he was the Paris correspondent for the Neue Freie Presse, Herzl covered this case, in which a Jewish artillery officer was wrongly convicted of treason. Émile Zola wrote J'accuse in response to it.
Herzl's Zionism was galvanized by his infatuation with this composer's works, which is weird since this composer swiped at Meyerbeer, Mendelssohn, and other musical Jews in his pamphlet “Jewishness in Music”.
Theodor Herzl [or Benjamin Ze'ev Herzl]
Dreyfus affair
Richard Wagner [or Wilhelm Richard Wagner] &lt;Kothari&gt;
After this war, Edward Lutyens designed the “Stones of Remembrance”, coffin-shaped cenotaphs atop three steps, in his role in the Commonwealth War Graves Commission. For 10 points each:
Name this war that also prompted War Graves Commission architect Reginald Blomfield to design the Menin Gate Memorial to the Missing in Ypres, Belgium.
This former French village, which was destroyed during World War I, is the site of a series of arches made of brick and Portland stone that was designed by Lutyens to commemorate over 72,000 British and South African soldiers whose bodies were never found, its namesake “memorial to the missing of the Somme”.
The largest U.S. memorial to World War I is the Liberty Memorial, which looks like a giant torch and was designed by Harold Van Buren in this Midwestern city, which also contains the art deco Power and Light Building, the Moshe Safdie-designed Kauffman Center, and Arrowhead Stadium.
World War I [or First World War or Great War]
Thiepval [accept Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme]
Kansas City, Missouri &lt;Hart&gt;
This kingdom signed the Treaty of Corbeil with France. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom that formed the Auld Alliance with France, which generally meant both kingdoms were allied against England. The creation of that alliance dates from when this kingdom's John Balliol signed a treaty.
In following the Auld Alliance, the Scottish unsuccessfully attacked England in this September 1513 battle, during which the Scottish king James IV died, the last time a British monarch has died in battle.
During the Battle of Flodden, Catherine of Aragon was serving as Queen Regent of England in the absence of this man, her Tudor husband, who was busy warring as a member of the Catholic League.
Kingdom of Scotland
Battle of Flodden Field [or Battle of Branxton]
Henry VIII &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about the Warren Commission for 10 points each.
The Warren Commission was created in November 1963 to investigate the assassination of what President?
A member of the Commission was this CIA director and brother of Dwight Eisenhower's Secretary of State. This pipe-smoking lawyer directed the CIA in overthrowing governments in Guatemala and Iran.
This long-serving Georgia Senator, who served in the Senate from 1933 to 1971, was also on the Commission. This mentor of Lyndon Johnson was a staunch opponent of civil rights who co-wrote the Southern Manifesto.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy [or Jack Kennedy; or JFK; prompt on “Kennedy”]
Allen Welsh Dulles [do not accept “John Foster Dulles”]
Richard Brevard Russell Jr. &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A sniper credited with killing over 500 enemy soldiers in this war was known as “White Death”. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict in which the winning side broke through the Mannerheim Line. Followed by the Continuation War, this war allowed the winning side to gain land along Lake Ladoga.
During the Winter War, the Soviet Union successfully invaded this country, which had previously declared its independence from Russia in 1917.
The Winter War occurred during this eight-month period of general inactivity that began after the fall of Poland and ran until the new German invasions in April. The sarcastic nicknames of this period were given to it by men such as Senator William Borah.
Winter War
Republic of Finland [or Suomi]
Phoney War [or Sitzkrieg; or Twilight War] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This action was encouraged by a woman named Gabrielle d'Estrees. For 10 points each:
Name this 1593 action undertaken by a king of Navarre in his efforts to secure the French throne; that king noted that Paris was “well worth” doing this action.
That king of Navarre became the fourth French ruler with this name after he defeated two other rulers with this name during the Wars of Religion.
Henry IV narrowly escaped death during the anti-Huguenot St. Bartholomew's Day massacre, which did kill this Protestant admiral, who was attacked in his lodgings by a group led by the Duke of Guise.
converting to Catholicism [or renouncing Protestantism; or renouncing Calvinism; accept obvious equivalents]
Henry [or Henri]
Gaspard II de Coligny &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This series contains the famous line “Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered”. For 10 points each:
Name this pamphlet series, the follow-up to Common Sense, which was written to encourage people during the American Revolution. It begins with the line “These are the times that try men's souls”.
This atheist corsetmaker wrote both Common Sense and The American Crisis.
Paine feuded with this Pennsylvania politician, who was known as the “Financier of the Revolution”. In 1781, he became the Superintendent of Finance for the U.S. He has the same last name as the peg-legged author of the Constitution's preamble.
The American Crisis
Thomas Paine
Robert Morris Jr. [do not accept “Gouverneur Morris”] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A man executed in this modern-day country gave as his last words the phrase “such is life”. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country that was once home to notorious “bushrangers” such as Ned Kelly, who dressed in a homemade metal suit of armor to fight against police.
The Australian state of New South Wales was once governed by William Bligh, who is better known for commanding what British ship that was the subject of an infamous mutiny in 1789?
Bligh was succeeded as governor by this Scottish-born administrator, who did much to modernize New South Wales and the entire continent. He introduced an official Australian currency, was the first to officially use the name “Australia”, and now names a university in Sydney.
Commonwealth of Australia
HMS Bounty
Lachlan Macquarie &lt;Cheyne&gt;
. Answer the following about weird deaths, for 10 points each.
This Athenian lawgiver died when a crowd tried to show its approval by throwing hats and shirts on him, which led to him being smothered. He is better known for extremely harsh laws that were mostly repealed by Solon.
This Danish scientist and author of Introduction to the New Astronomy died after contracting a kidney ailment that was brought on by a banquet in which he refused to leave the table to relieve himself so as to avoid committing a social faux pas.
Saint Lawrence died when he was roasted to death on a gridiron, which is why he is the patron saint of cooks; the execution was ordered by this emperor, who was himself skinned alive after becoming the first Roman emperor captured in battle during a fight against the Sassanids at Edessa.
Draco
Tycho Brahe [accept either part]
Valerian the Elder &lt;Cheyne&gt;
George Cruikshank drew a cartoon of this man that called him “Old Bumblehead”. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch whose relatively brief reign was interrupted by the Hundred Days after a man returned from Elba. This king was succeeded by his brother, who was himself overthrown in the July Revolution.
Louis XVIII was the brother of this king, who was executed during the French Revolution.
In 1816, Louis XVIII relaxed tariffs in order to fight massive famines in France; those food shortages partially occurred due to climate change prompted by the eruption of Mount Tambora, which is why 1816 is frequently known by this nickname.
Louis XVIII [prompt on “Louis”]
Louis XVI [prompt on “Louis”]
Year without a Summer [accept names that suggest there is no summer; or Eighteen Hundred and Froze to Death; prompt on Little Ice Age; prompt on Poverty Year] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
An emperor from this dynasty tried to install the sun god “Deus Sol Invictus” as the chief deity. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty whose members included the sexually deviant Elagabalus and bathhouse creator Caracalla. It takes its name from the emperor who seized power at the end of the Year of the Five Emperors.
Caracalla was killed by a member of the Praetorian Guard, much like this earlier Roman emperor, the insane successor to Tiberius whose nickname means “little soldier's boot”.
The Severan dynasty finally fell apart during this tumultuous series of events, a fifty-year period in which numerous men claimed the throne and the empire split apart until Aurelian reunited it.
Severan dynasty [or Severus]
Caligula [prompt on Gaius Julius Caesar]
Crisis of the Third Century [prompt on Imperial Crisis; prompt on Military Anarchy] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
. A song about this person's death proclaims, “Popery I hate as death”. For 10 points each:
Name this great-granddaughter of Henry VII who was technically queen of England for about nine days in 1553. She was then imprisoned and “succeeded” by Mary I, who executed this woman in 1554.
Jane Grey's claim to the throne conflicted with not only the claims of Henry VIII's daughter, Mary, but also this other daughter, who became queen in 1558. The final Tudor monarch, she was known as the Virgin Queen.
Jane Grey was married to a member of this family; her father-in-law was the Duke of Northumberland. Another member of this family, Robert, was the Earl of Leicester (“Lester”) and a longtime suitor of Elizabeth, even after the mysterious death of his first wife.
Lady Jane Grey [accept BUT DO NOT REVEAL Lady Jane Dudley]
Elizabeth I [or Gloriana; or Good Queen Bess]
Dudley [or the Dudley Boyz] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This kingdom contained numerous fortified towns called “burhs”. For 10 points each:
Name this Anglo-Saxon kingdom that was led by Alfred the Great. It eventually took over a previous regional power, Mercia.
The kings of Wessex, including Alfred, frequently clashed with these Scandinavian invaders. Fearful English Christians probably contributed to the myth that these people were all savage berzerkers.
The four main kingdoms of the old English “Heptarchy” were Mercia, Wessex, Northumbria, and this kingdom in modern-day Norfolk and Suffolk. Led by the Viking king Guthrum, it was to the north of the minor kingdom of Essex.
Wessex
Vikings [prompt on Danes or Norse]
East Anglia [or East Angles] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This two-word phrase was popularized by historian Alfred Crosby. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term for the transfer of plants, animals, and diseases that occurred when “Old World” explorers made contact with the New World in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.
The arrival of horses in the New World dramatically affected native tribes' lives on the Great Plains as they used horses to hunt this bovine animal, a key staple of American Indians' lives. This animal was nearly rendered extinct by hunters in the mid 1800's.
A popular, if probably inaccurate, theory is that this Paleo-Indian culture's people were the ancestors of most indigenous Americans. This culture takes its name from a New Mexico site, and shares its name with a European ruler.
Columbian Exchange [prompt on Grand Exchange]
bison [or buffalo]
Clovis culture &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This man was fighting against the Holy League of Cognac when his forces sacked Rome in 1527. For 10 points each:
Name this Habsburg king of Spain and Holy Roman emperor who spent many years fighting the French king Francis I.
Charles V defeated Francis I at this battle, during which Francis was captured and after which he was forced to sign the harsh Treaty of Madrid.
This woman, Charles's aunt who served as regent for Charles in the Netherlands for nearly 20 years, helped orchestrate the so-called Ladies' Peace, or Treaty of Cambrai, with Louise of Savoy, who was this woman's sister-in-law and Francis's mother.
Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; prompt on Charles]
Battle of Pavia
Margaret of Austria &lt;Gehring&gt;
This empire's culture and religion were documented in the Florentine Codex. For 10 points each:
Name this empire that fought enemies during the Flower Wars. It succeeded in killing numerous outsiders during La Noche Triste, which proved to be only a temporary victory.
This large Aztec city was built on an island in Lake Texcoco. Its ruins are now located in downtown Mexico City.
In 1519, Hernan Cortes massacred numerous warriors and leaders of this Aztec city and partially burned it, perhaps to send a message to the Aztecs. Cortes vowed he would build a Christian church for every destroyed native temple in this city.
Aztec Empire [or Aztec Triple Alliance]
Tenochtitlan
Cholula &lt;Cheyne&gt;
In this country, the pollster Tarki surveys opinions about the non-existent Piresian people to gauge general anti-immigrant sentiment. For 10 points each:
Name this Eastern European country currently ruled by the national conservative Fidesz party.
In response to an uptick in Middle Eastern refugees, Hungary built a border wall and temporarily suspended the Dublin Agreement, which binds most members of this continent-wide organization established by the Maastricht Treaty.
The conservative Law and Justice Party, known for its Euroscepticism, made huge gains in 2015 elections in this country, much of whose government was killed in a 2010 plane crash.
Hungary
European Union [or EU]
Poland [or Republic of Poland or Rzeczpospolita Polska] &lt;Kothari&gt;
This particular policy was meant to cultivate peaceful coexistence but insisted it would not tolerate armed provocation. For 10 points each:
Name this foreign policy implemented in 1998 as an attempt to improve relations with a particular country's northern neighbor. It was created during the presidency of Kim Dae Jung.
The sunshine policy was directed at this communist nation, which is led by Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un.
Well before the sunshine policy attempted to ease relations between north and south, this man led South Korea during the Korean War as the country's first president. Accused of corruption, he was forced out in 1960's April Revolution.
sunshine policy
North Korea [or Democratic People's Republic of Korea; or DRPK; do not accept “Republic of Korea”]
Syngman Rhee &lt;Cheyne&gt;
In the 1870s, Henry Chapman Ford created a portfolio of his paintings of these places. For 10 points each:
Name these locations set up by the Spanish. Junipero Serra founded the first nine of them in the 1700's at places like modern-day Ventura.
Serra's Spanish missions were located in this modern-day state at modern cities such as Santa Clara and San Juan Capistrano.
Twenty one missions in California were connected with this 600-mile pathway administered by the Spanish that stretched from San Diego to Sonoma.
missions [or misiones; prompt on monasteries]
California
El Camino Real [or The Royal Road; or The King's Highway] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Gold! In Africa! For 10 points each:
Mansa Musa, a ruler of this African empire, caused the value of gold to drop across Africa because he distributed it freely while travelling to Mecca. This empire was centered at Timbuktu.
This empire waged war against England after Sir Frederick Hodgson threatened to sit on its leader’s throne, which was called the Golden Stool. It was unified by Osei Tutu and controlled much of present-day Ghana.
This megalomaniacal dictator of the Central African Republic used money from his French allies to build himself a gigantic gold throne. This rival of David Dacko was often accused of cannibalism.
Mali Empire
Ashanti Empire [or Asante Empire]
Jean-Bedel Bokassa [or Bokassa I; or Salah Eddine Ahmed Bokassa]
Answer the following about Southeast Asia in the aftermath of World War II, for 10 points each.
Mohammad Hatta declared this nation’s independence during the last days of its Japanese occupation from its capital city of Jakarta.
This first president of Indonesia once collaborated with the Japanese along with Hatta. This man instituted “Guided Democracy” and was overthrown in a military coup by the “New Order” in 1967.
In the Philippines, these Marxist rebels switched from fighting the Japanese to waging a guerrilla war against the Filipino government. They were finally defeated during Ramon Magsaysay’s presidency.
Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia]
Sukarno [or Koesno Sosrodihardjo; or Kusnasosro Sosrodihardjo]
the Huks [or the Hukbalahap; or Hukbong Bayan Laban sa mga Hapon; or the Nation’s Army Against the Japanese; or similar translations like “the People’s Anti-Japanese Army”]
In the aftermath of this event, one participant fled to Wartburg Castle. For 10 points each:
Name this event, which saw the passing of a namesake Edict that declared the author of the Ninety-Five Theses a heretic. That author was questioned by Johann Eck at this event.
This author of the Ninety-Five Theses was officially condemned at the Diet of Worms. This anti-Semite and husband of Katharina von Bora also translated the Bible into German.
The earlier Concordat of Worms, signed by Henry V and Calixtus II, effectively ended the Investiture Controversy by restricting the Holy Roman Emperor’s power to perform this action.
Diet of Worms
Martin Luther
appointing Bishops [accept anything involving appointing Church officials]
Henry VIII was a big fan of executing people when they didn’t let him get his way. For 10 points each:
Name this “Man for All Seasons” and author of Utopia who was beheaded by Henry VIII after he refused to support the king’s annulment of the king’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon.
This other man survived the reign of Henry VIII, but was executed by the Catholic Mary I. Works of this Archbishop of Canterbury include the Thirty-Nine Articles.
Cranmer also compiled this book, which consists of a complete liturgy for the Anglican Church. Several famous phrases spoken at wedding services, such as “till death do us part,” actually come from this book.
Saint Thomas More [or Sir Thomas More]
Thomas Cranmer
Book of Common Prayer
Answer the following about freedom of speech in America, for 10 points each.
Freedom of speech is guaranteed by this constitutional amendment. It also protects freedom of the press and freedom of religion.
This Supreme Court case ruled that speech could be regulated if there was a “clear and present danger.” Its Oliver Wendell Holmes-penned opinion popularized the expression “shouting fire in a crowded theater.”
In this 1925 case, the Supreme Court extended the First Amendment’s federal protection of free speech to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment’s due process clause.
the First Amendment [or Amendment One]
Schenk v. United States [or United States v. Schenk]
Gitlow v. New York [or New York v. Gitlow]
This dynasty was founded by a possibly-mythical man named Caranus. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty which ruled Macedon under men like Philip II. Another member of this dynasty was tutored by Aristotle and rode the horse Bucephalus.
This member of the Argead Dynasty conquered much of the known world, in part thanks to his army’s use of the sarissa pike. According to more questionable sources, he undid the Gordian Knot by cutting it in half.
Alexander the Great gained control of parts of India after he won the Battle of the Hydaspes. Shortly after Alexander’s death, this man took back those conquests, unified the Indian subcontinent, and founded a namesake dynasty.
Argead Dynasty
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III]
Chandragupta Maurya
He returned to power in 1951 after defeating Clement Attlee, who had unseated him in the previous election. For 10 points each:
Name this prime minister who, during that time out of office, gave the speech that popularized the term “Iron Curtain.” He also served as the leader of the UK during World War II.
Churchill was succeeded after his second Ministry and retirement by this man. He had earlier resigned as Foreign Secretary to protest Chamberlain’s policy of appeasement.
Eden would later resign due to his failures during this incident. It consisted of an attempt to depose Gamal Nasser after he nationalized a certain waterway.
Winston Churchill
Anthony Eden
Suez Crisis
His army built pyramids of human skulls after sacking Delhi. For 10 points each:
Name this Central Asian warlord who conquered most of the Middle East and Central Asia in the late 14th century. This warlord, whose namesake dynasty was centered in Samarkand, was nicknamed “the Lame.”
Timur tried to emulate the conquests of this Mongol warlord, his distant ancestor. He founded the Mongol Empire and was the grandfather of Kublai.
Hulagu Khan, another descendant of Genghis, destroyed this organization by conquering its fortress of Alamut. This organization was legendarily commanded by the “Old Man in the Mountain.”
Timur [or Tamerlane; or Timur the Lame]
Genghis Khan [or Temujin; prompt on just “Khan”]
the Assassins [or Hashashin; or Hashshashin]
Conservative politicians in this state proposed the Briggs Initiative, which would have prohibited homosexuals from teaching at public schools. For 10 points each:
Name this state, where a campaign organized by Harvey Milk defeated the Briggs Initiative. Milk was the first elected openly gay lawmaker in its city of San Francisco.
This former Miss Oklahoma and Florida orange juice spokeswoman inspired the Briggs Initiative by supporting a similar law in Dade County, Florida. Her attempt to remove bans on discrimination based on sexual orientation originated the slogan “Save Our Children.”
Harvey Milk was a supporter of this controversial San Francisco-based founder of the People’s Temple cult. He eventually moved his followers to a namesake “town” in the Guyana jungle, where he had them commit mass suicide by drinking poisoned Flavor-Aid.
California
Anita Bryant [or Anita Jane Bryant]
Jim Jones [or James Warren Jones]
This daughter of Anne Boleyn is best known for overseeing the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588. For 10 points each:
Name this “Virgin Queen” who ruled England in the late 16th century.
Elizabeth was advised by this man, who served as Lord High Treasurer and helped Elizabeth seek an Anglican settlement. His son Robert also advised the queen.
The 1569 Northern Rebellion sought to replace Elizabeth with this Catholic monarch from England’s northern neighbor. She was executed for conspiring to overthrow Elizabeth in the Babington Plot.
Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth]
William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley [accept either underlined name]
Mary, Queen of Scots [or Mary I of Scotland; or Mary Stuart; prompt on Mary]
Answer the following about the topsy-turvy world of Gilded Age American politics, for 10 points each.
This Democrat and former governor of New York reclaimed the presidency in 1892 after losing to Benjamin Harrison in 1888, becoming the only president to serve two non-consecutive terms.
Cleveland won the contentious 1884 presidential election over this Republican, nicknamed “the Continental Liar from the State of Maine.” He led the Half-Breed faction against Roscoe Conkling’s Stalwarts.
In the 1884 election, Blaine’s supporters used this rhyming chant to allege that Cleveland had an illegitimate child with Maria Halpin. It was often accompanied by an illustration of a crying baby yelling at Cleveland.
Grover Cleveland [or Stephen Grover Cleveland]
James G. Blaine [or James Gillespie Blaine]
“Ma, ma, where’s my pa?” [or “Ma, ma, where’s my pa? Gone to the White House ha ha ha”]
This government was overthrown by Napoleon Bonaparte in the coup of 18 Brumaire. For 10 points each:
Identify this French government that lasted from 1795 to 1799. Its finances were drained by the War of the First Coalition.
This man was the only leader of the board of five Directors. He earlier helped overthrow Robespierre during the Thermidorian Reaction.
The Directory waged the largely ineffective Quasi-War with this other nation. Earlier, Talleyrand had demanded a huge bribe from ambassadors of this nation in the XYZ Affair.
French Directory [or Directoire exécutif]
Paul Barras
the USA [or United States of America; or America]
A 30 for 30 documentary contrasts this man’s life with that of a soccer player with the same last name who was gunned down after scoring an own goal. For 10 points each:
Name this former boss of the Medellin Cartel who was the best-known trafficker of cocaine until his 1993 death.
Escobar’s Medellin Cartel was based in this South American nation. Its “La Violencia” period began with a riot in its capital city, Bogotá.
The soccer playing Escobar was gunned down outside one of these buildings in Medellin. One of these buildings frequented by American soldiers in Berlin was bombed by an apparent Libyan conspiracy.
Pablo Escobar [or Pablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria]
Colombia [or Republic of Colombia]
nightclub [or bar; or discotheque; or obvious equivalents]
These two nations were joined together in the 1706 Acts of Union. For 10 points each:
Identify these two nations which were both ruled at the time by the House of Stuart. Their union formed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
The Acts of Union were signed during the reign of this monarch who had a tumultuous relationship with the Duke and Duchess of Marlborough. The American theater of the War of the Spanish Succession is named after her.
This earlier act named Sophia of Hanover as the heiress to the English and Irish thrones, since all of the other Stuarts were Catholic. It allowed George I to take the throne after Anne’s death.
England and Scotland [require both, but in either order]
Queen Anne
Act of Settlement, 1701
Answer the following about the Mughal dynasty, for 10 points each.
Mughal emperor Shah Jahan built this white marble landmark in Agra as a mausoleum for his favorite wife.
This third Mughal emperor created the Din-e Ilahi, a syncretic combination of Islam and Hinduism, to advocate religious pluralism. His army was victorious at the Second Battle of Panipat.
This ruler abandoned Akbar’s pluralism in favor of strict religious law, reinstating the jizya tax on non-Muslims. Given the title Alamgir, or “world-seizer,” he expanded the Mughal state to its greatest size.
Taj Mahal
Akbar the Great [or Akbar I; or Abu'l-Fath Jalal ud-din Muhammad Akbar; prompt on just “Akbar”]
Aurangzeb [or Aurangzeb Alamgir; or Abul Muzaffar Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad Aurangzeb]
Answer the following about the generals who carved up Alexander the Great’s empire after his death, the Diadochi, for 10 points each.
This man managed to grab the lion’s share of the empire, taking Mesopotamia, Persia, and Bactria. He later fought an unsuccessful war with Chandragupta Maurya.
Seleucus’ dynasty would frequently war with that of Ptolemy I, who took over this region. Ptolemy’s dynasty would produce a bunch of rulers who took his name, as well as Cleopatra.
Another member of the Diadochi was the one-eyed Antigonus, who started his namesake dynasty in this region of northern Greece that was Alexander’s homeland.
Seleucus I [or Seleucus Nicator; prompt on “Seleucus”]
Egypt
Macedon [or Macedonia]
Protests against this policy were brutally suppressed in Sharpeville and Soweto. For 10 points each:
Name this policy of state-mandated segregation in South Africa finally discontinued after Nelson Mandela was elected as president.
This Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984 for his peaceful opposition to apartheid.
This other anti-apartheid activist led the Black Consciousness Movement. He was beaten to death in police captivity, inspiring worldwide outcry.
apartheid
Archbishop Desmond Tutu [or Desmond Mpilo Tutu]
Steve Biko [or Steven Bantu Biko]
This man’s secretary, Edward Drummond, was mistaken for him and shot by a Scottish lumberjack. For 10 points each:
Name this British Prime Minister who refused to replace Lord Melbourne during the Bedchamber crisis. He also created the Metropolitan Police in London, which explains why they’re called “bobbies.”
That lumberjack was this man, who now lends his name to common law rules regarding the insanity defense.
Peel’s handling of the Irish Potato Famine involved the repealing of these laws which imposed harsh tariffs on grain imports.
Sir Robert Peel, 2nd Baronet
Daniel M’Naghten [or Daniel McNaughton]
Corn Laws
Answer the following about Vietnam War protests, for 10 points each.
Anti-war protestors targeted this president with rhyming chants asking “how many kids do you kill today?” This Texan took over the Presidency after the death of John F. Kennedy.
Under the leadership of Stokely Carmichael, this civil rights organization broadened its purview to include opposing the Vietnam War. It organized sit-ins and freedom rides, and was especially popular at universities.
This American actress infamously expressed her opposition to the war by visiting North Vietnam. After getting photographed sitting on a North Vietnamese anti-aircraft gun, she was nicknamed “Hanoi."
Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ; prompt on just “Johnson”]
SNCC [pronounced “snick”; or Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee or Student National Coordinating Committee]
Jane Fonda
This city elected a leader called a posadnik from its assembly, the veche. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was the center of a medieval Russian republic, which was led by Alexander Nevsky against the Teutonic Knights during the Battle on the Ice.
According to the Primary Chronicle, the 9th century prince Oleg moved the capital of the state of Rus’ from Novgorod to Kiev, the capital of this modern-day country.
Oleg of Novgorod succeeded his kinsman, a Varangian prince who names this ruling dynasty Kievan Rus’, which included the first Tsars of Russia.
Veliky Novgorod [do not accept “Nizhny Novgorod”]
Ukraine [or Ukraina]
Rurikid Dynasty
This country contains the oldest amusement park in the world, Dyrehavsbakken, which dates to the 16th century. For 10 points each:
Name this nation whose rulers included Valdemar I and Christian X, who freely rode through Copenhagen on his horse Jubilee during the Nazi occupation.
A Danish regent with this name formed an alliance with Haakon VI of Norway in 1363 before conquering Sweden. A Maid of Norway with this first name died on a trip to Scotland to meet her new husband Edward.
Margaret I’s marriage to Haakon VI led to the formation of this union, whose first king was Margaret’s adopted son, Eric of Pomerania. In 1523, the rise of the Gustav I Vasa of Sweden led to its dissolution.
Denmark
Margaret
Kalmar Union
In a self-caricature, this man depicted himself sharpening a giant pencil like a spear. For 10 points each:
Name this late-19th century cartoonist credited with mobilizing public opposition to Tammany Hall and its leader, William “Boss” Tweed.
Nast’s cartoons were the first to associate the Republican Party with this animal, which still serves as its symbol.
Nast’s nativist views are visible in his cartoon “The American River Ganges,” which depicts catholic clergymen as these animals menacing a group of schoolchildren.
Thomas Nast
an elephant
crocodiles [or alligators]
It was convened by a man who published the Syllabus of Errors and was the longest-serving Pope in history. For 10 points each:
Name this ecumenical council convened by Pius IX, the first to be named after the city governed by the Holy See. It officially defined papal infallibility.
Pius IX also defined the doctrine of Immaculate Conception, which states that this woman was born free of the original sin. This woman later conceived Jesus through the Holy Spirit.
Vatican 1 ruled that the Pope is only infallible when he is defining doctrine for the entire church. Use of that power is labeled with this two word Latin phrase.
First Vatican Council [or Vatican 1]
Virgin Mary
ex cathedra
Despite never officially being king, this man held a lot of power in his kingdom while serving in the role of Mayor of the Palace. For 10 points each:
Name this Duke of the Franks. He became known as “the Hammer” after defeating Abdul Rahman at the battle of Tours.
Charles’s son Pepin the Short became the first ruler of this dynasty. Their empire experienced a namesake “Renaissance” due to scholars like Alcuin of York under Pepin’s son Charlemagne.
After succeeding the last Carolingian ruler Louis V, this man took the French throne. The Capetian dynasty he founded, first directly and then through several cadet branches, ruled France until the Revolution.
Charles Martel
Carolingian Dynasty
Hugh Capet
Answer the following about everyone’s favorite early 20th century lawyer, Clarence Darrow, for 10 points each.
Darrow represented this socialist leader in the wake of the Pullman strike, which he led. This man ran for president on the socialist ticket five different times, even running his campaign from prison in 1920.
Darrow initially offered to take up this group’s case before deciding to pursue the better-paying Massie trial in Hawaii. This group of nine black teenagers were convicted of raping two white prostitutes on a freight train despite a clear lack of evidence.
Early in his career, Darrow defended Patrick Prendergast, a man who assassinated Mayor Carter Harrison at the end of this event. During it, H.H. Holmes killed people in his “Murder Castle.”
Eugene V. Debs [or Eugene Victor Debs]
the Scottsboro Boys [or the Scottsboro Nine]
the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair [or 1893 Chicago Columbian Exposition; or 1893 World’s Fair; or 1893 Columbian Exposition; World’s Columbian Exposition]
This group won a lesser known Battle of Salamis under the command of Cimon [“KEY-mon”]. For 10 points each:
Name this confederation which fought to liberate Greek poleis after the Battle of Plataea. Its treasury was located on its namesake island in the center of the Cyclades until it was moved to Athens.
The Delian League formed near the end of the second invasion of Greece by this empire under Xerxes I. They defeated an army containing 300 Spartans at Thermopylae.
The Battle of Plataea was fought concurrently with this other battle, during which the Spartan Leotychidas crushed the fortified remnants of the Persian Navy.
Delian League
Persian Empire [or the Achaemenids]
Battle of Mycale [“my-CAH-lay”]
This ruler led a victorious coalition at Heraclea, and he was killed by a falling roof tile at Argos. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Epirus, who names a type of victory that is as costly as a defeat.
Pyrrhus was an early enemy of this government. Another enemy of this government was Mithridates VI of Pontus, who fought against its leaders like Sulla and Gaius Marius.
The term “Pyrrhic victory” comes from Plutarch’s account of this battle, after which Pyrrhus said that with one more victory “we will be utterly ruined”. It was the second Pyrrhic victory after the Battle of Heraclea.
Pyrrhus of Epirus
Rome [or the Roman Republic; or SPQR; or Senatus Populusque Romanus]
Battle of Asculum
Answer the following about the Joseon dynasty, for 10 points each.
The Joseon dynasty ruled this peninsula, which was once was contested by the Silla and Goryeo kingdoms. It is currently split into two countries by a Demilitarized Zone.
While defending against a Japanese invasion, the Joseon created a type of warship named for these creatures. Oracle bones used for divination in early China were usually made from either oxen or these creatures.
This fourth and arguably greatest king of the Joseon dynasty is revered for creating the Korean writing system of Hangeul.
Korean peninsula [or Han peninsula]
turtles
Sejong the Great
Answer the following about the Year of the Four Emperors, for 10 points each.
The Empire was plunged into civil war after this Emperor committed suicide in 68 AD. He succeeded his grandfather Claudius and, according to Suetonius, played the lyre during the Great Fire of Rome.
Stability was restored when this general returned from his post in Judea, defeated Vitellius, and became the last of the four emperors. He founded the Flavian dynasty and was the father of Titus and Domitian.
The first of the Four Emperors, Galba, was assassinated by a member of this group. An earlier member of this group named Sejanus held power after Tiberius retired to the island of Capri.
Nero [or Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Caesar Vespasianus Augustus]
Praetorian Guard [or Praetorians; or Praetorian prefects]
This object was hammered in at Promontory Point, Utah. For 10 points each:
Name this object that connected the tracks built by the Central Pacific and Union Pacific Railroad companies, thus completing the transcontinental railroad.
To cut tunnels through the tough Sierra Nevada, the Central Pacific Railroad employed immigrants from this country. This country’s citizens were forbidden to immigrate to the United States by a namesake 1882 Exclusion Act.
The golden spike was driven in by this incompetent president of the Central Pacific Railroad. This governor of California commissioned Eadweard Muybridge to photographically study a horse’s gallop.
the Golden Spike [or the Last Spike; accept variants of “spike” like crampon, or cut spike]
China [or Qing Dynasty; or Zhongguo]
Leland Stanford [or Amasa Leland Stanford]
Answer the following about reforms in Russia under Alexander II, for 10 points each.
In 1861, Alexander II issued legislation emancipating these people, who had previously been bound to their masters’ land. However, these people still had to pay forty-nine “redemption payments” after their freedom.
Another of Alexander’s reforms established these small, elected local councils, which gave ordinary Russians a degree of self-government.
Alexander II also quashed the January Uprising in what was formerly this nation. After this nation’s Partitions, most of it became a part of the Pale of Settlement, which was home to many Jews.
serfs [or muzhik; or krepostnoi krestyanin; prompt on “slaves”]
zemstvos
Poland [or Polska]
Soviet leaders often toyed with plans for economic reform. For ten points each:
The implementation of this state capitalist economic program during the 1920’s was the USSR’s only real experiment with non-central planning. It was aggressively championed by Lenin.
Later, the USSR adopted a total of thirteen of these plans, named after a period of time. The first of them led to the holodomor, a famine that killed hundreds of Ukrainians.
The earliest five-year plans were established by this man, who succeeded Lenin as leader of the Soviet Union. He expelled many of his enemies during several purges and led the USSR through World War II.
New Economic Policy [or NEP; or Novaya Ekonomicheskaya Politika]
Five-Year Plans
Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Dzhugashvili]
All of Japan’s contact with the outside world during the Edo period occurred through Dejima, an artificial island built off the coast of this city. For 10 points each:
Name this common point of entry for early Portuguese visitors to Japan that had an atomic bomb dropped on it three days after Hiroshima.
Traders from this nation had such a large presence on Nagasaki that the knowledge acquired from this nation by Japan was nicknamed its “learning.” It controlled most of modern-day Indonesia during its colonial era.
Foreign boats that visited Japan during its periods of relative isolation were given this nickname. This nickname was also applied to Commodore Matthew Perry’s ships that opened trade relations with Japan in the 1850s.
Nagasaki
the Netherlands [or Holland; or “Dutch learning”]
Black Ships [or kurofune]
This structure was constructed in 1961 to prevent emigration and stood until 1989. For 10 points each:
Name this structure which marked the border between NATO and Warsaw Pact-aligned sections of a German city. Ronald Reagan famously demanded that Gorbachev tear this structure down in a 1987 speech.
Another institution aimed at preventing East German emigration was this state security service and secret police of East Germany. It operated with the assistance of many civilian informants.
This famed Berlin landmark, commissioned by Frederick Wilhelm II in 1791, stood directly in front of the Berlin Wall and was prominently featured in news coverage of the Fall of the Wall.
Berlin Wall [or Berliner Mauer]
Stasi [or Ministerium für Staatssicherheit or MfS or Ministry for State Security or Staatssicherheitsdienst or SSD]
Brandenburg Gate [or Branderburger Tor]
Relatives of the Habsburg emperor Franz Joseph had an unfortunate proclivity for dying tragically. For 10 points each:
In this incident, Franz Joseph’s son Prince Rudolf and his mistress died, allegedly due to a joint suicide. It takes its name from the Vienna Woods town where the suicides took place.
Rudolf’s death, as well as the death of Franz Joseph’s brother Karl Ludwig, led to this Archduke becoming the heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne. His assassination in Sarajevo led to the beginning of World War I.
Franz Ferdinand’s killer, Gavrilo Princip, was part of a conspiracy led by members of this secret society of Slavic nationalists. They earlier killed the Serbian King Alexander I in the May Coup.
Mayerling Incident
Archduke Franz Ferdinand
The Black Hand [or Crna Ruka; or Union or Death! or Ujedinjenje ili Smrt!; do not accept “National Defense” or “Narodna Odbrana”]
Answer the following about everyone’s favorite mid-19th century politician, Lewis Cass, for 10 points each.
While running for president in 1848, Cass popularized this political belief that recently admitted states should vote on whether or not to allow slavery.
This politician borrowed Cass’ idea of popular sovereignty while drafting the Kansas-Nebraska Act. He had a notable series of debates with Abraham Lincoln and later lost to Lincoln as a Democrat in the 1860 Presidential election.
As James Buchanan’s Secretary of State, Cass tried to protect American filibusters in Latin America, including this “grey-eyed man of destiny” who briefly turned Nicaragua into his own personal dictatorship.
popular sovereignty
Stephen A. Douglas [or Stephen Arnold Douglas]
William Walker
Answer the following about American military shenanigans in the Caribbean, for 10 points each.
The United States declared the right to intervene in this country’s affairs with the Platt Amendment. The United States sponsored the failed Bay of Pigs invasion to depose Fidel Castro as this country’s ruler.
In 1983, the United States launched Operation Urgent Fury to invade this Caribbean island nation after the overthrow of its president, Maurice Bishop.
After Mexico imprisoned a group of American sailors in the Tampico Affair, the United States occupied this Mexican port city on the Caribbean for seven months.
Cuba [or Republic of Cuba]
Grenada
Veracruz
Answer the following about legends of the Wild West, for 10 points each.
This was the stage name of the Pony Express rider and US Army scout who brought Sitting Bull and Annie Oakley along in his travelling Wild West show. His real name was William Cody.
The oft-romanticized 1881 gunfight between Wyatt Earp’s posse and a group of villainous cowboys is usually named for this building in Tombstone, even though the fight actually took place in a lot adjacent to it.
This saloon owner declared himself “The Law West of the Pecos,” and apocryphally ordered many men to hang in the Texas town of Langtry.
Buffalo Bill
the O.K. Corral
Judge Roy Bean [or Phantly Roy Bean, Jr.]
Answer the following about a northern European “Brave Little Democracy’s” effort against Soviet Aggression in World War II, for 10 points each.
The Soviet Union invaded this nation after the signing of a non-aggression pact with the Nazis. The Shelling at Mainila gave the Soviets casus belli to bomb this nation’s capital of Helsinki.
The Soviets’ poor performance during the first stages of the Winter War was largely caused by this array of fortifications named after the Finnish commander-in-chief.
As a result of the Winter War, Finland surrendered a large amount of this area to the USSR. Finland briefly regained it while fighting the Continuation War in the early 1940’s.
Finland
Mannerheim Line
Karelia
Answer the following about writing in historical China, for 10 points each.
This general during the Spring and Autumn period advised “appear weak when you are strong and strong when you are weak” in his tome The Art of War.
This first emperor of China burned many Confucian texts at the end of his reign. This founder of the Qin dynasty was buried with an “army” of terracotta soldiers.
This Han dynasty official chronicled the history China up to Empress Wu in his Records of the Grand Historian.
Sun Tzu
Qin Shi Huangdi [or Ying Zheng; or Zhao Zheng]
Sima Qian [or Szu-Ma Chien]
This man’s ashes were buried underneath a structure that stands in the Forum named after him, and his “market” was essentially an ancient shopping mall. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman emperor who also enacted the Alimenta program to provide schooling and food for orphaned and poor children. During his reign, the Roman Empire’s borders reached their maximum size.
Trajan was the second member of this group of rulers. During their reign, Rome underwent a period of relative peace and prosperity.
Trajan’s Column depicts victories over this kingdom, which occupied mostly what is now Romania. Their leader, Decebalus, committed suicide after losing its capital in a siege.
Trajan [or Marcus Ulpius Traianus]
Five Good Emperors
Dacia
This man violated the Proclamation of 1763 when he blazed the Wilderness Road through the Cumberland Gap. For 10 points each:
Name this American woodsman best known for exploring and organizing the settlement of modern-day Kentucky.
Boone drove a wagon in General Edward Braddock’s army during this war, which was fought between the British and French colonies. It was the North American theater of the Seven Years War.
During the American Revolution, Boone aided this patriot general in his campaigns against the Indians of the Northwest Territory. He captured the forts of Kaskaskia and Vincennes, and later became a notorious drunk.
Daniel Boone
French and Indian War [do not accept or prompt on “Seven Years War”]
George Clark [or George Rogers Clark]
Answer the following about kooky Latin American dictators, for 10 points each.
This Mexican president had a wooden leg and failed to suppress the Texan Revolution. He was removed from office after losing the Mexican-American War.
Noted drug-trafficker Manuel Noriega was deposed as this country’s dictator after it was invaded by the United States in 1989. Jimmy Carter gave it control of a structure in a treaty signed with Omar Torrijos.
This Paraguayan dictator ordered his mother whipped for revealing that he was a bastard, and wasted his country’s money on gifts for his Irish prostitute wife Eliza Lynch. His armies lost the War of the Triple Alliance.
Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna [or Santa Anna; or Lopez de Santa Anna]
Panama [or Republic of Panama; accept the Panama Canal]
Francisco Solano Lopez [or Francisco Solano Lopez Carrillo; prompt on just “Lopez”]
This conflict was triggered by Leopoldo Galtieri’s occupation of a British overseas territory. For 10 points each:
Name this 1982 conflict. The Battle of Goose Green took place during this war which ended when the British retook the city of Stanley.
This “Iron Lady” was the Prime Minister of Britain during the Falkland War.
A major victory for Thatcher came when she negotiated for the end of a 1984 strike of workers in this industry. This industry’s union was led at the time by Arthur Scargill.
Falklands War [or Falkland Islands War; or Guerra de las Malvinas]
Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; or Margaret Hilda Roberts]
coal mining [accept word forms like coal miners; accept National Union of Mineworkers; prompt on “coal”]
He gifted his patron, the Yongle [“yong-luh”] Emperor, with a giraffe he found while visiting modern-day Somalia. For 10 points each:
Name this muslim eunuch who led Chinese exploration across the Indian Ocean during the 15th century.
Zheng He’s voyages were taken on behalf of this Chinese dynasty, which succeeded the Yuan. It was known for its ornate vases.
This pseudohistorian alleged that Zheng He’s fleet discovered the Americas in his book 1421. He also dubiously claimed that the Chinese visited Italy before the Renaissance and that Atlantis had been a real empire.
Zheng He [“jung huh”]
Ming dynasty
Gavin Menzies [or Rowan Gavin Paton Menzies]
Krakow was made a free city and Switzerland was given a constitution during this diplomatic meeting. For 10 points each:
Talleyrand and Castlereagh attended this conference, which was held in the capital of modern-day Austria to restore balance of power in Europe in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.
The Congress of Vienna was chaired by this Austrian statesman, who served as Foreign Minister and later as Chancellor.
Metternich was forced to flee Austria during the Revolutions of 1848, when this Hungarian revolutionary gave a speech to incite a mob in Vienna.
Congress of Vienna
Klemens von Metternich [or Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar, Fürst von Metternich-Winneburg-Beilstein]
Lajos Kossuth
This politician wrote his country’s first constitution, the Instrument of Government, during his time as Lord High Chancellor. For 10 points each:
Name this man who orchestrated the Torstenson War while serving as regent for the future queen Christina.
Axel Oxenstierna served as advisor to this father of Christina, who led Sweden for most of the Thirty Years War and was known as the “Lion of the North.” He is often considered the father of modern warfare.
Sixteen years after the death of Gustavus Adolphus at Lützen, the Thirty Years War was ended by this series of treaties signed at Osnabrück and Münster.
Axel Oxenstierna [or Axel Gustavsson Oxenstierna]
Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf]
Peace of Westphalia
President Eisenhower ordered the 101st Airborne Division to enter a city in this state after its governor refused to allow a high school to integrate. For 10 points each:
Name this state where, in 1957, 9 black students tried to integrate Little Rock High School.
This Governor of Arkansas tried to block the integration of Little Rock High School but was unsuccessful.
Three years after the Little Rock integration crisis, this brave little girl faced similar difficulties as the first black child to attend one of Louisiana’s all-white public elementary schools. She is depicted walking to school in Norman Rockwell’s painting The Problem We All Live With.
Arkansas
Orville Faubus
Ruby Bridges [or Ruby Nell Bridges Hall]
This playwright depicted the clash between the traditionalist Oba Danlola and the President of Isma. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright of Kongi’s Harvest and a play in which Lakunle and Baroka compete for Sidi’s affection, The Lion and the Jewel. He was the first African author to win a Nobel Prize in Literature.
In this other Soyinka play, Elesin’s ritual suicide is stopped by colonial authorities, so his son Olunde commits suicide instead.
Soyinka wrote a play subtitled A Communion Rite that is an adaptation of this ancient Greek tragedian’s play, The Bacchae.
Wole Soyinka [or Akinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka]
Death and the King’s Horseman
Euripides
This man’s lieutenants included Henri Christophe and Jean-Jacques Dessalines [“dess-uh-LEAN”]. For 10 points each:
Name this former slave who led the 1791 Haitian Revolution.
Haiti achieved independence from this European nation. It briefly reconquered Haiti during the regime of Napoleon Bonaparte.
Napoleon dispatched this man, his brother-in-law, to recapture Haiti. This man died of yellow fever along with most of his army.
Toussaint Louverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint]
France [or French Republic; or République française]
Charles Leclerc [or Charles Victoire Emmanuel Leclerc]
They made up the majority of the 442nd Infantry Regiment, the most decorated regiment in American military history. For 10 points each:
Give this common term for second generation Japanese-Americans who often enlisted in the army despite being interned by the US government. Their parents were referred to as issei.
The internment of the nisei and other Japanese-Americans was supported by dubious allegations that they had aided in the December 7, 1941 Japanese surprise attack on this Hawaiian naval base.
This nisei sued the United States, arguing that Japanese internment was unconstitutional. He gives his name to the 1944 Supreme Court case that found that the measure was indeed constitutional.
nisei
Pearl Harbor
Fred Korematsu [or Korematsu v. United States]
This war ended with the capture of Toulouse in April 1814. For 10 points each:
Name this war. Napoleon described is as an “ulcer” due to his difficulty dealing with the large-scale guerrilla tactics of his opponents, a coalition of Britain, Spain, and Portugal.
This man commanded the British forces during the Peninsular War. Later, along with Gebhard von Blücher, he ended Napoleon’s Hundred Days with a victory at Waterloo.
The Peninsular War successfully overthrew this King of Spain. This brother of Napoleon had earlier ruled as king of Naples before being replaced by Joachim Murat.
Peninsular War
Arthur Wellesley [or Duke of Wellington; or Viscount of Wellington]
Joseph Bonaparte [or José I]
The victorious commander at this engagement later had Battle Abbey built on the spot where it took place. For 10 points each:
Name this 1066 victory for William the Conqueror that ensured the Norman conquest of Anglo-Saxon England. It is depicted in the Bayeux Tapestry.
According to the Bayeux Tapestry, this last Anglo-Saxon king of England died at Hastings after an arrow pierced his eye. He succeeded Edward the Confessor as king.
In the Bayeux Tapestry, William the Conqueror is depicted as performing this action to prove to his men that he is still alive after falling from his horse.
Battle of Hastings
Harold Godwinson [or Harold II; prompt on just “Harold”]
he takes off his helmet [accept any descriptive answer that suggests knowledge of William the Conqueror removing his helmet to prove that he is still alive]
James Monroe invited this man to make a “Grand Tour” of the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this French aristocrat who alleviated the boredom of being incredibly rich by fighting for the colonists in the American Revolution. This close advisor of George Washington was nicknamed “The Hero of Two Worlds.”
Along with George Washington and the rest of the Continental Army, the Marquis de Lafayette suffered through the winter of 1777 at this encampment in Pennsylvania.
This Prussian military outcast arrived at Valley Forge as a volunteer to train the unskilled colonial volunteers. His training, later condensed into the Blue Book, turned the ragtag patriot army into a legitimate military force.
the Marquis de Lafayette [or Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette]
Valley Forge
Baron von Steuben [or Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben]
Harold Macmillan’s “wind of change” speech foresaw the end of this empire, and during the 19th century, it was often said that the Sun never set on this empire. For 10 points each:
Name this empire that sued for peace in the 1783 Treaty of Paris and lost colonies like Hong Kong and India during the 20th century.
Two answers required. The Constitutional Act of 1791 divided Canada into these two constituent bodies. They were so named for their relative locations along the St. Lawrence River.
Macmillan’s “wind of change” speech was delivered to the parliament of this country, then led by Hendrik Verwoerd. Verwoerd tightened the rule of this country’s white Afrikaner minority.
British Empire [or UK; or United Kingdom]
Upper Canada and Lower Canada [both answers required; order does not matter]
South Africa [or Republic of South Africa; or Union of South Africa]
One of these occurrences happened after the Salarian Gate was opened. For 10 points each:
Name these events, two of which were caused by the Alaric-led Visigoths in 410 and the Vandals in 455.
This other frequent enemy of Rome was known as “the scourge of God.” He terrorized Roman lands and even forced Valentinian III to abandon Rome until he was defeated at the Battle of Chalons.
This man is regarded as the first King of Italy, a rank he achieved after overthrowing the boy emperor Romulus Augustulus. This ruler would later be deposed by Theodoric, who killed him personally at a banquet.
Sacks of Rome [accept clear knowledge equivalents]
Attila the Hun
Odoacer [or Flavius Odovacer]
Answer the following about the October Revolution of 1910, for 10 points each.
The revolution overthrew this country’s king Manuel II. This country would later be home to a government known as the “Estado Novo” that ruled from Lisbon.
Manuel II belonged to this Portuguese royal house founded by Alfonso I. The English king Charles II’s wife, Catherine, was a member of this house.
One reason for the 1910 October Revolution was the surrender of some Portuguese colonies in Africa to Great Britain. However, Portugal managed to retain this colony until 1999 when it was returned to China.
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic]
House of Braganza
Macau
The modern game of Ulama evolved from this sport. For 10 points each:
Name this game played by men in loincloths by bouncing rubber balls off their hips. It was played on courts at sites like Iximche [“ee-SHEEM-chay”] and Copan.
The Mesoamerican ballgame was played by this civilization in cities like Palenque and Chichen Itza. Their Long Count calendar was used to (incorrectly) predict that the world would end in 2012.
Some of the best-preserved ball courts are at this Mayan site in modern-day Guatemala. It contains the Lost World complex and the Temple of the Great Jaguar.
Mesoamerican ballgame [or Mayan ballgame; pitz; or ollamaliztli]
Maya civilization [or Mayan civilization]
Tikal
Answer the following about the early 19th century’s hippest economic platform, the American System, for 10 points each.
The American System was the central platform of this politician’s three failed presidency bids. This Kentuckian was nicknamed the “Great Compromiser” for drafting the Compromise of 1850.
This institution was created in line with the American System’s goal of creating a strong dollar. It was obliterated by Andrew Jackson while it was run by Nicholas Biddle.
The American System called for investment in American infrastructure, leading to the completion of projects like the Erie Canal and this railroad. It was the first chartered railroad in American history.
Henry Clay, Sr.
Second Bank of US [or “Second Bank of the United States”; prompt on “Bank of the United States”; do not accept or prompt on “First Bank of the United States” or “Bank of America”]
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad [or B&O Railroad]
Answer the following about the Peloponnesian Wars, for 10 points each.
The Peloponnesian Wars were fought between Sparta, its allies, and this democratic city state, which had maintained dominance before the war. Its military leaders included Themistocles and Pericles.
In 416 BCE, Athens brutally conquered this neutral island, which had refused to join its league against the Spartans. Its residents debate the Athenians in a section of Thucydides’s History of the Peloponnesian War.
After Melos’ defeat, Athens led a disastrous campaign against which island and its city of Syracuse? Thucydides attributed much of the failure to their not appreciating quite how big the island actually was.
Athens
Melos [or Milos]
Sicily [or Sicilia; or Sikelia]
They were captured and executed by Ma Yuan’s army. For 10 points each:
Name this semi-legendary pair of sisters who led a rebellion against the Han dynasty in the early 40 AD’s.
The Trung sisters are regarded as national heroes in this Southeast Asian nation, which was unified between rival North and South portions in 1975 after the fall of Saigon.
The Trung sisters are often depicted riding these animals. They were utilized by King Porus at the Battle of the Hydaspes River.
the Trung sisters [or Trung Trac and Trung Nhi]
Socialist Republic of Vietnam [do not accept or prompt on North Vietnam or South Vietnam]
war elephants
A painting by this artist shows a man pull back a curtain to reveal a young George Washington holding an axe he has used to cut a cherry tree. For 10 points each:
Name this Iowan artist of Parson Weems’ Fable who painted his sister and a bald pitchfork-holding dentist in American Gothic.
Three thin-lipped old women stand in front of a recreation of Washington Crossing the Delaware in this Grant Wood painting.
Wood, along with Thomas Hart Benton and John Steuart Curry, was a leader in this school of art. Many paintings from this movement depict rural scenes.
Grant Wood
Daughters of Revolution
American regionalism [or word forms like regionalist art]
This colony was home to the oldest Jewish house of worship in North America, Touro Synagogue. For 10 points each:
Name this colony that attracted dissenters from other more religiously conservative New England colonies. It grew out of a plantation at the modern-day state capital of Providence.
This man founded Rhode Island after Massachusetts kicked him out for being too damn tolerant.
Roger Williams bought Rhode Island from this Native American tribe. Although it got along with Rhode Island, it was practically wiped out after it allied with the Wampanoag during King Philip’s War.
Rhode Island [or Rhode Island and Providence Plantations]
Roger Williams
Narragansett tribe
A Holy Roman Emperor with this name was so depressed that he eventually started carrying his coffin everywhere with him. For 10 points each:
Give this name shared by two Holy Roman Emperors. Another man with this first name was shot by a firing squad after he was overthrown as Emperor of Mexico.
Those men named Maximilian were members of the House of Habsburg, which was also called the “House of” this modern-day country. The Schönbrunn Palace is located in this country’s capital of Vienna.
With Henry VII, Maximilian I won a battle named after these items during the War of the League of Cambrai. In another battle named for these clothing items, the French cavalry were obliterated by pikemen from Flanders.
Maximilian [or Maximilian I; or Maximilian II]
Austria [or Österreich]
spurs [or Battle of the Spurs; or Battle of the Golden Spurs]
The Confederation of the Rhine was dissolved as a result of this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this victory for Alexander I and the Prince of Schwarzenberg. Because of the large coalitions that fought in it, this battle is also called the “Battle of the Nations”.
The Battle of Leipzig was a major loss for this Emperor of France. At the end of a period of rule known as the Hundred Days, this ruler lost the Battle of Waterloo and was exiled to St. Helena.
After this battle, the Treaty of Pressburg effectively destroyed the Holy Roman Empire. It is often considered to be Napoleon’s greatest tactical victory and included the recapture of the Pratzen Heights.
Battle of Leipzig
Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I]
Battle of Austerlitz
Answer the following about technological changes in the American military leading up to World War Two, for 10 points each.
This eccentric general and tank enthusiast supported advancements in armored technology during the 1920s. Nicknamed “Old Blood and Guts,” this commander of the Third Army during the Battle of the Bulge infamously slapped a shell-shocked soldier.
The Navy experimented with building these types of vessels, examples of which included the Saratoga and the Lexington. During World War II, the most decorated one of these vessels was the USS Enterprise.
This air warfare-obsessed general spent the 1920s trying to demonstrate how advances in airplane technology could be used by the military. In 1925, he was succesfully court-martialed for his “treasonous” beliefs.
George S. Patton [or George Smith Patton, Jr.]
aircraft carriers
Billy Mitchell [or William Mitchell]
Answer the following about setbacks the Europeans faced during their colonization of the New World, for 10 points each.
Recent evidence suggests that this disease was first introduced to Europe after the return of Columbus’s voyage to the New World. It was historically known as the “great pox.”
Lots of colonization efforts made trade companies enormously rich, but the Darien Company’s attempt to colonize Panama was a massive failure, resulting in the near-bankruptcy of this nation.
After the Spanish conquered the Inca, they brought this crop back to Europe. Later, the lack of diversity in this crop’s cultivation in Ireland led to its infection with a blight in the mid-19th century.
syphilis
Scotland
potatoes [accept Irish potato famine]
This leader allowed himself to be criticized during the short-lived Hundred Flowers Campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who instituted the Cultural Revolution as the first chairman of the communist People’s Republic of China.
During the Cultural Revolution, Chairman Mao’s sayings were collected and printed in this widely-distributed book.
This Chinese politician helped compile the Little Red Book. Suspected of plotting against Mao, he died along with his family in a suspicious 1971 plane crash.
Chairman Mao Zedong [or Mao Tse-tung]
Little Red Book [or Quotations from Chairman Mao Tse-Tung]
Lin Biao
The victims of this event had surrendered to General Jose de Urrea’s army only a few days earlier. For 10 points each:
Name this massacre perpetrated on James Fannin’s men a month after the Battle of the Alamo. At the Battle of San Jacinto, charging soldiers cried “Remember the Alamo! Remember [this massacre]!”
The Goliad massacre took place during this nation’s revolution. It was annexed in 1845 as a state with its capital at Austin.
This man popularized the battle cry “Remember the Alamo! Remember Goliad!” while leading Texan troops at the Battle of San Jacinto [“jah-SIN-toh”]. He later became the first President of the Republic of Texas.
the Goliad [“go-LEE-ad”] massacre
Republic of Texas
Sam Houston [or Samuel Houston]
Answer the following about elite military units from the Middle East, for 10 points each.
This empire was served by an elite detachment of 10,000 soldiers called the Immortals. Cyrus the Great ruled this empire that is called by either the name of its legendary ancestor or its origins in modern-day Fars province.
These Ottoman infantry units were originally recruited from impoverished, Christian portions of the Balkans. They were purged from the Ottoman bureaucracy in the Auspicious Incident.
The janissaries often had power struggles with these Ottoman cavalry units. They were divided into the Timarli and the more elite Kapikulu.
Achaemenid Empire [or Persian Empire; or Persia]
Janissaries
Sipahi [or Spahi; or Spakh]
This country improved its relationship with the Ottoman Empire by promising to build a railroad from its capital to Baghdad. For 10 points each:
Name this country that sparked an international crisis by dispatching a gunboat, the Panther, to the Moroccan port of Agadir in 1911. The Herero genocide occurred in one of its African colonies.
Germany was forced to surrender most of its overseas territories by this 1919 treaty, which ended World War One.
During World War One, Germany conspired with the Ghadar party, a group made up of people of this nationality, to sabotage the British Empire. An activist of this nationality encouraged countrymen to support the British war effort by joining the ambulance corps.
Germany [or German Empire; or Deutschland; or Second Reich]
Treaty of Versailles
Indian people [or Bharatiya]
This man took his last position in office after John Lambert’s drafted the Instrument of Government. For 10 points each:
Name this Lord Protector of the Commonwealth, a Protestant leader of the victorious Roundheads during the English Civil Wars.
The Self-Denying Ordinance set up this body, of which Cromwell was the Lieutenant-General. This army, which came into being after Parliament’s loss at Marston Moor, did not rely on part-time militias.
This commander-in-chief of the New Model Army began his service in the English Civil Wars fighting alongside his father, Fernando, and later resigned his post after refusing to invade Scotland.
Oliver Cromwell
New Model Army
Thomas Fairfax [or 3rd Lord Fairfax of Cameron]
This man put the Ten Commandments at the beginning of a code of laws he wrote known as the Doom Book. For 10 points each:
Name this only English King with the epithet “The Great.” This man, who resettled the city of London, was the first to call himself the King of the Anglo-Saxons.
Alfred the Great ruled this kingdom, whose history is prominently featured in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. This kingdom fought several battles with the neighboring Kingdom of Mercia.
Wessex and Mercia were members of this set of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. The Kingdom of England was formed by their unification.
Alfred the Great
Kingdom of Wessex
heptarchy
Answer the following related to JFK's book Profiles in Courage, FTPE.
John Quincy Adams was the only Federalist who voted in favor of this 1803 acquisition of French land that stretched from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains.
Lucius Lamar delivered a eulogy for this man. who was beaten with a cane on the Senate floor by Preston Brooks in 1856 after delivering a scathing anti-slavery speech.
One profile in the book is of this man, nicknamed Mr. Republican, an Ohio senator who was the son of a president and who opposed the Nuremberg Trials as violating American ex post facto expectations.
Louisiana Purchase
Charles Sumner
Robert A. Taft
This action was first carried out in the US Senate in 1919. FTPE:
What rule allows a super-majority of three-fifths of the senate to vote to end a filibuster?
The first cloture vote ended a filibuster opposing this treaty ending World War I.
Before a cloture vote, this type of call meant to summon absent senators must be made. This term also refers to the minimum number of members needed for a committee to do business.
cloture
Treaty of Versailles
quorum call
Edward Heath appointed this person to Education Secretary, and five years later this politician defeated Heath in the Conservative Party leadership election. For 10 points each
Name this longest-serving British prime minister of the 20th century, who served from 1979-1990.
This other female politician is the current leader of the Christian Democratic Union and the Chancellor of Germany.
This country’s first female head of state was Elisabeth Kopp, who took power after Rudolf Freidrich resigned due to 	health.
Margaret Thatcher
Angela Merkel
Switzerland
Causes of this uprising include the concentration of court power in ten eunuchs and high taxes on peasants in order to fund fortifications along the Silk Road. For 10 points each:
Name this nearly twenty year revolt that suppressed rebels who were predominantly of a Taoist sect, the Way of Supreme Peace.
The Yellow Turban Rebellion occurred during this dynasty, which experienced an interruption by the Xin dynasty under Wang Mang.
This tumultuous period followed the end of the Eastern Han and lasted from 220 to 280.
Yellow Turban Rebellion [or Yellow Scarves Rebellion]
Han Dynasty
Three Kingdoms period
In 1972 the Democratic National Committee had its headquarters on the sixth floor of this building. FTPE:
What Washington DC hotel lent its name to a scandal first involving the wiretapping of those DNC offices?
Two of the Watergate burglars had Howard Hunt’s name in their address books, eventually leading the FBI to this special “dirty tricks” squad paid by the White House. Their name came from their work to stop “leaks.”
The best-known of The Plumbers was this wingnut crazy who published a best-seller titled Will after serving time for the Watergate burglaries. He later was a right-wing talk show host.
Watergate Hotel
The Plumbers
G. Gordon Liddy
This president’s cabinet included James Blaine as Secretary of State and Robert Todd Lincoln as Secretary of War. For 10 points each:
Name this president who was succeeded by the mutton-chopped Chester A. Arthur after serving for only six months because he was assassinated by a disgruntled office seeker.
This act was pushed through Congress with the help of President Arthur. It was a reform billed that encouraged a civil service system rather than the spoil system.
The namesake of the Pendleton Act, “Gentleman” George Pendleton, was a U. S. Senator from this state, whose others have included Mark Hanna and an anti-trust act namesake, John Sherman.
James Garfield
Pendleton Act
Ohio
This man spent much of World War I as a dispatch runner on the Western Front and earlier was rejected from the Vienna’s Academy of Fine Arts. FTPE:
Name this Fuhrer of the Third Reich who took power in Germany after the death of President Paul Von Hindenburg. Jeb Bush would totally kill him in the crib if he had a time machine.
This German Propaganda Minister was chancellor for one day after Hitler committed suicide.
This man took a solo flight to arrange peace talk with the Duke of Hamilton, but was promptly put in British jail. He was tried at Nuremberg and lived the rest of his life in Spandau prison.
Adolf Hitler
Joseph Goebbels
Rudolf Hess
It took hold when Tokugawa Yoshinobi stepped down as shogun. For 10 points each:
Name this “restoration” that began in 1868 and led to the swift industrialization of Japan.
This American commodore and his advanced gunships forced Japanese leaders to open ports other than Nagasaki up to foreign trade, pressing Japanese leadership into industrialization.
Perry was sent to Japan by this president who acceded to the office after the death of Zach Taylor, and who was the last Whig to be president.
Meiji Restoration
Matthew C. Perry [prompt on partial]
Millard Fillmore
During one battle, this man used vines and trees to rappel down Mt. Vesuvius and ambush the opposing army. FTPE:
Name this former gladiator whose ultimately unsuccessful uprising against Rome led to his followers being crucified along the Appian Way.
The Spartacus League, a group of Marxist revolutionaries, launched a revolt in an attempt to undermine the rule of this German government established in the aftermath of World War I.
The Comte de Lavaux referred to this man as the “Black Spartacus.”  Along with Jean-Jacques Dessalines, this former slave led the Haitian Revolution.
Spartacus
Weimar Republic
Toussaint L’Ouverture
Answer the following about some "affairs" from French history. FTPE:
In the Affair of the Diamond Necklace, Louis de Rohan was accused of forging the signature of this queen, the wife of Louis XVI, who was guillotined during the French Revolution.
Francis I "vomited rage through his eyes" after a sign was posted on his door by these people in the Affair of the Placards, which was followed six years later by an Edict of Fontainebleau.
This affair began when the Marquise [mar-KEEZ] de Brinvilliers [brin-vil-YA] was executed in 1676 for the murder of her father and brothers. During this affair, Madame de Montespan, the mistress of Louis XIV, was suspected of participating in black masses.
Marie Antoinette [or Maria Antonia]
Huguenots [prompt on "Protestants" or "Calvinists"]
Affair of the Poisons
This event began when Edward the Confessor died, bringing Harold Godwinson to the throne. FTPE:
Name this 11th century event, whose decisive Battle of Hastings saw the victor defeat the Englishman Harold Godwinson for the throne.
This Norman King, the only son of Robert I, was the victor at the Battle of Hastings.
William the Conqueror called for the publication of this book near the end of his reign. Its original purpose was to collect taxes owed during the reign of Edward the Confessor.
¬Norman invasion of England [or Norman conquest of England; accept equivalents]
William the Conqueror [or William I of Normandy; or William the Bastard]
Domesday Book [or Book of Winchester]
John Trumbull depicted the death of Joseph Warren at this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this 1775 battle that was actually fought on Breed's Hill in Massachusetts.
"Don’t fire ’til you see the whites of their eyes" is often attributed to William Prescott or this other American commander at Bunker Hill, who names a "camp" in Redding, Connecticut.
This last name is shared by the British commander at Bunker Hill, as well as the author of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
Battle of Bunker Hill
Israel Putnam
Howe
This event, which took around fifteen days, may have occurred through the Little St. Bernard Pass and involved thirty-seven war elephants. For 10 points each:
Name this 218 BC event in which a certain general crossed a certain mountain range.
Hannibal crossed the Alps during the first year of this war that was fought between Rome and Carthage, and included major battles fought at Lake Trasimene, Cannae, and Zama.
This son of Hamilcar and brother of Hannibal was beheaded after losing the Battle of the Metaurus during the Second Punic War and had his head thrown into Hannibal's camp.
Hannibal's crossing of the Alps [accept equivalents]
Second Punic War [prompt on partial answer]
Hasdrubal II
Michele di Lando was a leader of the revolt of the Ciompi [CHAHM-pee]. For 10 points each:
That revolt was led by men who labored in fields which didn’t have the protection of these medieval organizations that controlled work in specific disciplines in a town.
The revolt of the Ciompi occurred in this Italian city-state, which fought against the Papal States in the War of the Eight Saints, and was later ruled by members of the Medici family.
Florence was home to this 1497 event, in which Girolamo Savonarola and his supporters burned thousands of sinful objects, including works by Boccaccio and Botticelli.
guilds
Florence
Bonfire of the Vanities [or Falo delle vanita]
This election first gained major prominence when Dwight Eisenhower upset Robert Taft in 1952. FTPE:
What state’s primary, including the town vote held by its town of Dixville Notch, is traditionally the first held by both major parties?
In 1996, Pat Buchanan shocked this eventual Republican nominee by winning the New Hampshire primary. This Kansas senator eventually got stomped by Bill Clinton.
New Hampshire law requires it to hold the first primary election in the US process, but Iowa residents actually vote first, but in this type of open voting process that only selects delegates to county conventions.
New Hampshire
Bob Dole
caucus
Commandos who stormed a hijacked Belgian plane in 1972 included two future holders of this political position. FTPE:
What national leadership position was held by Ehud Barak from 1999 to 2001 and is currently held by ice cream fanatic Benjamin Netanyahu?
This only woman to be Prime Minister of Israel called for Operation Wrath of God to hunt down terrorists who killed Jewish athletes at the 1972 Olympics.
This man’s second stint as Prime Minister was ended with his assassination by an ultranationalist who was angry about Israel’s agreement to the Oslo Accords in 1995.
Prime Minister of Israel
Golda Meir
Yitzhak Rabin
This state, which first emerged when Grand Duke Jogaila married Queen Jadwiga, existed until its third partition in 1795. For ten points each:
Name the state that merged one polity with capital at Vilnius and another at Krakow.
This order of knights and their Grand Master lost to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth at the Battle of Tannenberg, or by the Poles known as Grunwald, in 1410.
A different Battle of Tannenberg, which saw the Germans defeated the Russians, occurred during this war, which also included the Battle of the Marne and the Gallipoli Campaign.
Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth [or Poland-Lithuania Commonwealth]
Teutonic Knights [or Teutonic Order]
World War I
According to Steven Pinker's book The Better Angels of Our Nature, this rebellion resulted in the death of a sixth of the world's population and was "the worst atrocity of all time." FTPE:
Name this rebellion against Xuanzong led by the namesake obese Turkic general, whose forces captured the cities of Luoyang and Chang'an before he was assassinated by his son.
In addition to the An Lushan rebellion, events during this century include the end of the Umayyad Caliphate following the Battle of the Zab and the beginning of the Nara Period in Japan.
The poets Li Bai and Du Fu were active during this Chinese dynasty that saw the An Lushan rebellion. This dynasty was defeated by the Abbasid Caliphate at the Battle of Talas.
An Lushan rebellion [or An-Shi rebellion; or Tianbao rebellion]
8th century [or 700s; or 701-800; accept equivalents]
T’ang dynasty
This city was the location of the University of Sankore, and is currently home to the Djinguereber [jin-gah-REY-bur] and Sidi Yahia mosques. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose name is often casually used to denote a distant or faraway place.
Timbuktu was an important city in this empire of West Africa, whose rulers were known as mansas. This empire shares its name with a modern-day country with capital at Bamako.
This event involving a Malian mansa in 1324 consisted of a three-thousand mile journey that flooded markets on the way with gold.
Timbuktu [or Timbuctoo; or Timbuktoo; or Tombouctou]
Mali
Musa's pilgrimage to Mecca [accept equivalents like Musa’s Hajj]
If crossing entire oceans on boats of amateurish construction sounds like a risky proposition to you, you’re probably saner than these people. For 10 points each:
This Norwegian’s most famous voyage was the Kon-Tiki Expedition, in which he sailed across the Pacific Ocean in an imitation of an ancient Polynesian raft to prove it was possible.
Heyerdahl later led an expedition to this Pacific island, where his team re-created the moai, or large stone heads that are found there.
This man was convinced there was land west of Greenland. He set sail around the year 1000 and established a Norse settlement at Vinland on the northern tip of what is now Newfoundland.
Thor Heyerdahl
Easter Island
Leif Erikson
Boudicca's Uprising occurred in Britain during the reign of this man, who forced Lucan and Seneca to commit suicide after the Pisonian conspiracy. For 10 points each:
Name this adopted son of Claudius who reigned as Roman Emperor from 54 AD to 68 AD.
According to the historian Cassius Dio, during this 64 AD event, Nero climbed to the roof of a palace and sang the "Capture of Troy" while playing a lyre.
After the Great Fire of Rome, Nero ordered the construction of this palace, which included a rotating dining area and a 100 foot tall statue of Nero that resembled the Colossus of Rhodes.
Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [or Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus]
Great Fire of Rome [or accept equivalents, such as the burning of Rome]
Domus Aurea [or Golden House]
After the Venezuelan Crisis, the creator of this policy also added his namesake corollary to the Monroe Doctrine. FTPE:
Name this policy created by Theodore Roosevelt which was used in acquiring the Panama Canal Zone. This term was paired in his motto with speaking softly.
This rotund successor of Roosevelt dealt with nations of the Western Hemisphere using Dollar Diplomacy. This president would later become Chief Justice of the US in the 1920’s.
This Secretary of State under Taft encouraged US bankers to move into the Latin American countries to give the US financial leverage. He had previously served in the Senate for the state Pennsylvania.
Big Stick Diplomacy (stop that snickering, you!)
William Howard Taft
Philander C. Knox
Show off your knowledge of the Merovingian Dynasty FTPE:
At the 732 Battle of Tours, Merovingian armies defeated an invading force of Spanish Muslims, known by the French by this term.
This mayor of the palace is considered the hero of Tours; his nickname derives from his hammering of the Moors.
This man united all the Franks two centuries before Charles Martel and converted the Franks to Orthodox Christianity.
Moors
Charles Martel [or Charles the Hammer]
Clovis I
Central American history fun time! FTPE:
This country, site of the Darien scheme, is home to an important man-made waterway that was built by the United States after an attempt led by the French engineer Ferdinand de Lesseps failed.
The US invaded Panama in 1989 to remove this dictator, nicknamed “Pineapple Face,” who had been indicted for drug trafficking.
During a civil war in this country bordering Mexico and Belize, dictator Efraín Ríos Montt committed genocide against the Ixil people. An earlier president, Jacobo Arbenz, was ousted in a coup engineered by the U.S.
Panama
Manuel Noriega
Guatemala
They killed themselves rather than surrender at the siege of Masada, and an extreme faction of them was known as the Sicarii because they carried daggers. FTPE:
Name this passionate group of Jews from Judea who sought to end Roman rule.
A zealot named Simon and a tax collector named Matthew were two of these twelve disciples of Jesus, whose namesake creed begins "I believe in God the Father Almighty."
This man wrote about "The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth" in his 2013 book Zealot.
Zealots
Apostles
Reza Aslan
A 1944 speech named for one of these animals denied it had been left behind in the Aleutian Islands. FTPE:
Fala was what kind of animal, another of which is the Portuguese Water Dog Bo.
Officially eventually a vice-presidential dog, this Cocker Spaniel lends his name to a treacly speech given by Richard Nixon in 1952 defending accusations of illegal acceptance of gifts.
Barbara Bush presumably ghost-wrote a book attributed to this Springer Spaniel.
Presidential dogs (prompt on “pets,” but accept equivalents for “presidential”)
Checkers
Millie
This battle occurred when the Holy League sailed east to relieve the Italian Colony of Famagusta. For 10 points each:
Name this 1571 naval battle fought in the Ionian Sea which saw an Ottoman fleet defeated.
Famagusta was a colony of this Italian power ruled by the Doges and known for its canals.
This other Italian state had forces at Lepanto. The dukes of this state frequently had the surname of Emmanuel, including their last duke and unifier of Italy Victor Emmanuel II.
Battle of Lepanto
The Most Serene Republic of Venice
Duchy of Savoy
Answer the following about the non-fiction books of Erik Larson FTPE:
Larson's most recent book Dead Wake and is about "The Last Crossing of" this luxury ocean liner, which was sunk by a German submarine off the coast of Ireland in 1915.
Larson's book Isaac’s Storm is about the hurricane that made landfall in this Texas city in 1900.
Larson's most famous book, The Devil in the White City. is set in this city, which hosted the 1893 World's Fair, and was home to a "Murder Castle" belonging H. H. Holmes.
RMS Lusitania
Galveston
Chicago
Identify these minor parties in American history FTPE:
This secretive party with a strong anti-immigration stance had a nickname derived from a response members often gave when asked about it.
This party nominated Martin Van Buren as president in the 1848 election, and its name comes from its stance against the expansion of slavery
This party was found as a means for Teddy Roosevelt to run in the 1912 election after not being chosen as the Republican Candidate at the National Convention.
American Party [or Know Nothing Party]
Free Soil Party
Progressive Party [or the Bull Moose Party]
This year saw the May student uprisings in Paris. FTPE:
What year also marked the beginning of the Prague Spring in Czechoslovakia?
This Czech leader ushered in the Prague Spring but had to resign when the Soviets sent in tanks in 1969.
Dubcek called for economic reforms with a liberalizing edge he called “socialism with” this human feature.
1968
Alexander Dubcek [DOOB-chek]
human face
Chapters in this book are dedicated to the voyages of Hong Bao and Zhou Man. FTPE:
Name this Gavin Menzies book titled for "The Year China Discovered America."
Those voyages in addition to seven made by Zheng He mostly occurred under the reign of the Yongle Emperor during this Chinese dynasty, which also produced some nice porcelain.
Gavin Menzies coincidentally shares his last name with a Prime Minister from this country who served from 1939 to 1941 and again from 1949 to 1966. A different PM from this country named Harold Holt was accused of being a Chinese spy after disappearing during a swim.
1421
Ming
Australia
