A pro-Brexit bus advertisement claimed that the “350 million pounds” the U.K. sent every week to the European Union could be used to fund this organization instead. For 10 points each:
Name this organization that provides healthcare to citizens of the United Kingdom.
The NHS was founded in 1948 under Clement Attlee, a Prime Minister from this center-left British political party. Its more recent prime ministers include Tony Blair.
The NHS expanded on the 1911 National Insurance Act crafted by this Chancellor of the Exchequer, who also passed the “People’s Budget.” This Welsh member of the Liberal party later became Prime Minister.
National Health Service [or NHS]
Labour Party
David Lloyd George &lt;SCW&gt;
In September 2018, the Supreme Court of India ruled that women could not be denied entrance to Sabarimala Temple for potentially being in this state. For 10 points each:
Identify this temporary state that is considered impure in many religions. A taboo on this state was traditionally used to ban women ages 10 to 50 from the Sabarimala Temple.
In India and this neighboring country, menstruating women are often banished to outdoor huts in the practice of chhaupadi. Though this country outlawed chhaupadi in 2005, a woman died during it in January 2019.
After counter-protesters blocked women from entering Sabarimala Temple, millions of Indian women formed the Vanitha Mathil, a 385-mile one of these things crossing the entirety of Kerala State.
menstruation [accept equivalents like being on one’s period; prompt on bleeding]
Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal [or Sanghiya Lokatantrik Gaṇatantra Nepal]
human chain [or human wall; accept women’s wall, the literal translation of “Vanitha Mathil”] &lt;HK&gt;
This man may have commissioned the Portland Vase, and he’s depicted at the top of the Great Cameo of France. For 10 points each:
Name this man who commissioned the Ara Pacis. Because this man’s reign saw the construction of buildings like the Pantheon, he supposedly boasted “I found Rome a city of bricks and left it a city of marble.”
Cameos like the Portland Vase are made using this physical process, which is also used to make gems called intaglios.
Cameos are usually made from this material, which was often “stained” to make decorations for Gothic cathedrals.
Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus [ or Octavian; or Gaius Octavius Thurinus]
carving [accept engraving]
stained glass &lt;JR&gt;
These two crops provide a combination of shade and nitrogen fixation. For 10 points each:
Name these two crops that were grown alongside corn as the so-called “Three Sisters.”
The Three Sisters were staple crops in this Native American Confederacy, which absorbed the Tuscarora to become the Six Nations.
A primary social unit of Iroquois tribes was this kind of structure, which could be home to dozens of families related through their mothers.
squash AND beans [accept more specific answers for either]
Iroquois Confederacy [or Haudenosaunee]
longhouses [prompt on just houses] &lt;JR&gt;
This city’s silk workers used punch-cards to operate Jacquard looms, and were known as “canuts.” For 10 points each:
Name this French city, where the canuts revolted in the early 1830s. Those revolts in this city are often seen as the first major well-organized worker uprisings of the Industrial Revolution.
The revolt of the canuts inspired this radical Socialist government in France. This government only lasted for a few months in 1871, and it barely spread outside its namesake city.
Another spark for the Paris Commune was France’s embarrassing defeat by this now-defunct country. Otto von Bismarck was chancellor of this country, which was the predecessor to modern Germany.
Lyon
Paris Commune
Kingdom of Prussia [or Königreich Preussen; accept Franco–Prussian War] &lt;JR&gt;
This book describes “The Contemporary Structure of Plunder” by powers like the United States in a section titled “Development is a Voyage with more Shipwrecks than Navigators.” For 10 points each:
Name this book by Eduardo Galeano that recounts “five centuries of the pillage of a continent.”
This former world leader once “gifted” Barack Obama a copy of Open Veins of Latin America. He led a “Bolivarian Revolution” that failed due to a collapse in oil prices.
Hugo Chávez’s Bolivarian Revolution occurred in this oil-rich South American country, which is now undergoing a massive crisis under Nicolas Maduro.
Open Veins of Latin America [or Las Venas Abiertas de América Latina]
Hugo (Rafael) Chávez (Frías)
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or República Bolivariana de Venezuela] &lt;JR&gt;
This period ended with the so-called “Redemption,” in which Southern States passed the Jim Crow laws. For 10 points each:
Name this era of American history which followed the Civil War. Southerners who supported Republican policies during it were called “scalawags.”
During Reconstruction, Northerners who moved South to make profit were often described with this term, which refers to the cheap luggage they supposedly used.
This man served as Chief Justice during the Reconstruction era. In Texas v. White, he ruled that the Southern states had no authority to secede.
Reconstruction
carpetbaggers
Salmon P(ortland) Chase &lt;SPQR&gt;
This civilization’s name derives from the purple dye it produced as its major export. For 10 points each:
Name this Semitic civilization whose major cultural centers included Sidon and Tyre. This civilization’s alphabet indirectly formed the basis for almost every modern alphabet, including even Thai and Mongolian.
This city in modern-day Tunisia was Phoenicia’s major colony. This city fought a war against its mercenaries after losing the Second Punic War to Rome.
This city in modern-day Lebanon was the first major power center for the Phoenicians. Its Greek name either derived from or is the origin of the Greek word for “book,” which was later used for a collection of sacred texts.
Phoenicians
Carthage
Byblos [accept biblion] &lt;SPQR&gt;   Tiebreaker
For 10 points each—answer the following about medieval translations of the Bible:
Following Martin Luther’s translation of the Bible into German, this electorate’s dialect became the standard for literary German. This electorate’s ruler Frederick III sheltered Luther despite his Roman Catholic beliefs.
This leader of the Lollards published an English-language translation of the Bible in 1382. This “morningstar of the Reformation” was posthumously declared a heretic at the Council of Constance.
This English translation of the Bible was begun in 1604 and completed in 1611. Richard Bancroft oversaw this standard Anglican Bible, which takes its name from the British king who faced the Gunpowder Plot.
Saxony [or Sachsen]
John Wycliffe
King James Version [accept KJV; accept Authorized Version; accept King James Bible] &lt;SPQR&gt;
John Milton described this man as having “sunk eyes” and a “voice harsh and loud.” For 10 points each,
Name this Englishman who fabricated a 1678 conspiracy to kill Charles II and place a Catholic on the British throne.
The conspiracy was supposedly to be carried out by this religious order founded by Ignatius of Loyola. Pope Francis is a member of this order, whose aggressive evangelizing is considered part of the “Church Militant.”
One of the people Oates accused was this man, whose diary used a multilingual code to describe sexually assaulting most of the women in his life. He’s a major historical source for the Great Fire of London.
Titus Oates
Jesuits [or Society of Jesus]
Samuel Pepys [“peeps”] &lt;SPQR&gt;
A seventh-century one of these objects that was above 80 square feet incorporated silk and jewels, and was called the “Spring of Khosrow.” For 10 points each:
Name these objects that were woven throughout Central Asia and the Islamic world. Unlike a tapestry, these objects typically have knots woven in to create a raised “pile.”
Several of the most elaborate Islamicate rugs came from this modern-day country. This modern country’s language can be written with nasta’liq calligraphy.
Several Iranian manuscripts used borders “sprinkled” with this material, which was used to make the “ground” of many medieval European panel paintings.
carpets [or rugs]
Iran [accept Persia]
gold leaf [prompt on partial answer] &lt;JR&gt;
A Supreme Court case springing from this state introduced the phrase “affected with a public interest” into U.S. law. For 10 points each:
Name this state that prosecuted the firm of Munn and Scott for overcharging for grain storage, in a case that eventually made it to the Supreme Court. That precedent was later overturned when this state lost the Wabash case.
Munn v. Illinois came out of a series of laws promoted by this organization that advocated for the interests of Midwestern farmers. This organization also spearheaded the push for Rural Free Mail Delivery.
The Grange also pushed for direct election for this Federal legislative body, which took effect with the Seventeenth Amendment.
Illinois [accept Munn v. Illinois or Wabash v. Illinois]
The National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry [accept Granger Laws]
United States Senate &lt;JR&gt;
This group of eleven ships departed from Portsmouth, England in 1787. For 10 points each:
Name this group of ships, which was under the command Arthur Phillip. They probably brought smallpox to the local population after landing in Botany Bay.
Two decades after its founding by the First Fleet, New South Wales’s governor William Bligh was overthrown in an 1808 rebellion named for this alcoholic beverage. This molasses-based drink was often consumed by sailors.
Nearly 20 years earlier, Bligh faced a famous mutiny as the captain of this ship. Originally, this ship set sail to transfer breadfruit from Tahiti to the West Indies, but ended up sailing to Pitcairn Island.
First Fleet
Rum rebellion
HMS Bounty &lt;VS&gt;
Benjamin Disraeli claimed to have returned with this <em>thing</em> after the 1878 Congress of Berlin. For 10 points each
Name this thing that Neville Chamberlain claimed to have brought in his announcement of the Munich Agreement.
Chamberlain proclaimed “peace for our time” from the steps of this location, which is where the residence of the Prime Minister is located. Give the house number and the street name.
The next resident of 10 Downing Street was this man. This Prime Minister, who led the U.K. through World War II, has been accused of genocide for his role in the 1943 Bengal famine.
peace for our time [accept just “peace,” but do not accept or prompt on “peace in our time”]
10 Downing Street
Winston (Leonard Spencer-) Churchill &lt;SPQR&gt;
A work in this medium coined the term “gerrymander.” For 10 points each:
Name this medium whose American proponents included Alexander Anderson and Thomas Nast.
An Alexander Anderson cartoon features a turtle of this name snapping at the coattails of a man carrying a barrel. This turtle’s name refers to an unpopular act passed by Jefferson during the Napoleonic Wars; a description is acceptable.
The passage of Jefferson’s Embargo Act, as well as incidents such as the Chesapeake–Leopard Affair, escalated tensions and eventually led to this war with Britain, sometimes referred to as “Mr. Madison's War.”
Political Cartoon [accept editorial cartoon; prompt on partial answer]
Ograbme [accept any answer indicating “embargo” backwards; do not accept or prompt on just “embargo”]
War of 1812 &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about important months in European history:
During this month in 1905, Nicholas II issued a manifesto promising basic civil rights and the creation of the Duma. Trotsky and Lenin led a 1917 revolution in this month that established the Soviet government of Russia.
This European country underwent the 1832 June Rebellion, which sought to reverse the changes brought about by its 1830 July Revolution.
The 1918 November Revolution in Germany began with one of these events at Kiel. Two of these events took place at Kronstadt during the early 20th century.
October
France
naval mutiny &lt;SPQR&gt;
This country has been ruled by the People’s Action Party since gaining independence in 1959. For 10 points each:
Name this city-state whose first prime minister said that it had gone “from the Third World to the First World in a single generation.”
Every prime minister of Singapore to date has been a native speaker of this broad group of languages. Since 1949, this language has largely supplanted the native languages of Taiwan.
In 1993, William Gibson wrote an article in which he called Singapore “Disneyland” with this addition, leading to Wired magazine to be banned in the city-state.
Republic of Singapore [or Republik Singapura]
Chinese [or hanyu or zhongwen; accept Mandarin or Hokkien]
death penalty &lt;HK&gt;
Although it only includes one pure carpet page, this book replaces them with extraordinarily decorated initials that take up a full page. For 10 points each:
Name this book that, like the Lindisfarne Gospels, was lavishly illuminated in the Insular style.
The Book of Kells and Lindisfarne Gospels were made in the art style of these people, who also made the royal treasures found in the Sutton Hoo ship burial.
One of the most extraordinary finds at Sutton Hoo was one of these objects probably made for king Rædwald. Archaeologists have found no evidence that Vikings actually wore “horned” examples of these objects.
Book of Kells
Anglo-Saxons [prompt on partial answer]
helmets &lt;SPQR&gt;
This country’s final emperor exclaimed “I want it now!” shortly before taking the throne. For 10 points each:
Name this South American country that declared independence from Portugal under Pedro I. While acting as regent, Pedro II’s daughter Isabel pushed for the Golden Law to end slavery in this country.
Early in Pedro II’s reign, this man put down the Balaiada Revolt. He was promoted to nobility after leading the Brazilians to victory in the War of the Triple Alliance.
In the Ragamuffin War, Caxias led the army against rebels led by this man, who became known as the “hero of two worlds” after fighting in the Uruguayan civil war.
Empire of Brazil
Duke of Caxias [or Luís Alves de Lima e Silva]
Giuseppe Garibaldi &lt;MK&gt;
Teófilo Braga led the October 1910 revolution that overthrew this country’s monarchy and ousted its last king, Manuel II. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which went on to experience two decades of instability before the rise of a corporatist dictatorship under Antonio Salazar.
During his leadership, Salazar maintained close relations with this religious institution via the Concordat of 1940. With the Lateran Treaty of 1929, this institution gained a state of its own in Vatican City.
Though nominally neutral through World War II, Salazar’s Portugal leased air bases for use by this country, which is sometimes cited as its partner in the world’s oldest surviving alliance.
Portugal
Roman Catholic Church [prompt on “the Church”]
United Kingdom [or Great Britain; accept England] &lt;SE&gt;
John Brown called this woman “General” for her work organizing the Harpers Ferry raid. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Underground Railroad, who was nicknamed “Moses” for her help bringing escaped slaves to freedom.
Tubman began making her expeditions back to Maryland after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law in this year. California was admitted as a free state in this year.
In the past 30 years, a few historians have controversially claimed that designs on these household objects were used to give “directions” and instructions for escaped slaves travelling the Underground Railroad.
Harriet Tubman [or Araminta Ross]
1850 [accept Compromise of 1850]
quilts &lt;JR&gt;   Tiebreaker
Some food historians have credited this event with introducing the tomato to Italian cuisine. For 10 points each:
Name this event that followed the issuing of the Alhambra Decree in 1492.
The Alhambra Decree was issued by Ferdinand II of Aragon and this other Catholic Monarch, who was queen of Castile.
Ferdinand and Isabella had married in this Spanish city, which they made their capital. After a 1561 fire, Philip II moved the capital of Spain from this city to Madrid.
expulsion of Jews from Spain [accept any description of Jews being forcibly removed from Spain]
Isabella I of Castile
Valladolid &lt;JR&gt;
This series of events began in 1555, in which Hugh Latimer and others died in Oxford. For 10 points each:
Name this series of events that was depicted in the last book of John Foxe’s Acts and Monuments. A description is fine.
Those Persecutions were ended when Mary died and was succeeded by this sister of hers. This “Virgin Queen” declared “I have the heart and stomach of a king” in a speech to troops preparing to fight the Spanish Armada.
Mary’s Archbishop of Canterbury, Reginald Pole, had earlier presided over this event, which is generally held to have started the Counter-Reformation. This event was called by Paul III in 1545.
Marian Persecutions [accept any answer indicating executions, martyrdoms, or other kinds of deaths during the reign of Mary I; prompt on partial answers like “Bloody Mary’s reign” or “Anglican martyrdoms”]
Elizabeth I
Council of Trent &lt;JR&gt;
In this country, extensive drone strikes have been conducted by the U.S. to fight Taliban forces. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Osama bin Laden was found and killed in the city of Abbottabad.
The head of this judicial entity in Pakistan was suspended in 2007, leading to public outcry. After the Lawyer’s Movement took to the streets, this body’s Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry was restored to office.
The man who suspended Chief Justice Chaudhry was this general-turned-President of Pakistan. He took power as “Chief Executive” after a spat with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif led the army to stage a coup d’état in 1999.
Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or Islami Jumhuriyah Pakistan]
Supreme Court of Pakistan [or Adalat-e-Uzma Pakistan]
Pervez Musharraf &lt;HK&gt;
The longest-serving holder of this post was William McChesney Martin. For 10 points each:
Name this post that oversees the board of the Central Bank of the U.S. Its current holder is Jerome Powell, who replaced the first woman to hold this position, Janet Yellen.
William Martin once described the responsibility of the Fed Chair as “tak[ing] away the punch bowl just as the party gets going,” in reference to the Fed’s responsibility to do this action to stop the economy from overheating. A description is fine.
Some have blamed this economic downturn that started in 2008 on the Fed’s lack of regulation of toxic assets such as subprime mortgages. It’s named by analogy to the worldwide depression that started in 1929.
Chairman of the Federal Reserve [accept word forms, but the word Chairperson is required; prompt on partial answer]
raising interest rates [accept any answer involving increasing the interest rate]
Great Recession [do not accept or prompt on “Great Depression”] &lt;BY/AF&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about television ads in Presidential elections:
In this man’s “Daisy ad,” a small child is ostensibly vaporized by a nuclear bomb, with a voiceover warning not to trust Barry Goldwater with the nation’s arsenal. This man succeeded John F. Kennedy as President.
The 1984 Reagan ad, “Prouder, Stronger, Better,” which asks “Why would we ever want to return to where we were less than four short years ago?” is better known for opening with this line, which became his reelection slogan.
Four years later, George H.W. Bush’s campaign manager Lee Atwater was accused of racial animosity in an ad about this murderer, whom Michael Dukakis allowed to have a “weekend pass.”
Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ]
It’s morning again in America
Willie R. Horton &lt;SCW&gt;
This period ended in 1185 with the victory of Minamoto clan over the Taira in the Genpei War. For 10 points each:
Name this final classical period of Japanese history. Lady Murasaki’s Tale of Genji was written in this period, which was followed by the Kamakura period.
The Kamakura period was the beginning of Japan’s rule by these military dictators, who kept true power away from the Emperor until the Meiji Restoration of 1868. These people ruled in the Ashikaga and Tokugawa periods.
This family dominated the Heian period by marrying their daughters to emperors and then raising the royal heirs. A member of this family created the office of kampaku, which allowed him to effectively rule as emperor.
Heian period
shoguns
Fujiwara &lt;HK&gt;
The first part of this war is typically named for king Archidamus II. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Greek war fought in the 400s B.C., in which a namesake League headed by Sparta defeated the Delian League headed by Athens.
One of the early sparks of the Peloponnesian War was an Athenian attack on Potidaea, a city on this three-fingered peninsula that juts down from the northeast part of modern Greece.
The city of Mende on the Chalcidice was a major producer of this metal that was mined at Laurium near Athens. This metal was the primary metal used in Athens’s “owl” tetradrachmas.
Peloponnesian War
Chalcidice [or Chalkidiki]
silver &lt;JW/SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about recent and upcoming elections in Africa:
Atiku Abubakar will challenge this self-described “converted democrat” in elections in February. After leading a military regime in the 1980s, this man defeated Goodluck Jonathan to win the presidency in 2015.
In January 2019, Félix Tshisekedi was declared president of this country, succeeding long-time leader Joseph Kabila, who governed from Kinshasa.
An ongoing civil war has led to continual postponement of this country’s next election, in which a party with an all-green flag will likely be led by Saif al-Islam.
Muhammadu Buhari (Buhari is the president of Nigeria.)
Democratic Republic of the Congo [accept DRC or DR Congo or Congo-Kinshasa; prompt on Congo; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of the Congo” or “Congo-Brazzaville”]
State of Libya &lt;MK&gt;
This king was supposedly crowned after his mother sent for him with a raven with a ring in its beak. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Hungary, who also assumed the title of Duke of Austria in 1487. This ruler and son of John Hunyadi created the Black Army and lost the Battle of Baia to Stephen the Great of Moldavia.
In 1469, Corvinus also was elected king of this kingdom in the modern Czech Republic. After a namesake war, Corvinus agreed to limit his rule of this kingdom to Moravia, Silesia, and Lusatia.
Corvinus built a legendary institution of this kind, which was destroyed after the Battle of Mohács in 1526. A huge institution of this kind at Alexandria was supposedly burned by Julius Caesar on accident.
Matthias Corvinus [accept either underlined portion; accept Matthias I or Matyas I Hunyadi]
Kingdom of Bohemia
library &lt;SPQR&gt;
The first of these committees were organized as the delegations to the Stamp Act Congress. For 10 points each:
Name these “committees” that Patriots organized as independent, coordinated governments just prior to the Revolutionary War.
The Stamp Act was one of these pieces of legislation, which prompted a rhyming Patriot slogan demanding “No [this] without representation.”
The Boston committee of correspondence was led by this doctor, who later sent Paul Revere on his midnight ride. This man died serving as a general at Bunker Hill.
committees of correspondence
taxes [accept “No taxation without representation!”]
Joseph Warren &lt;JR&gt;
This speech states that “famous men have the whole earth as their memorial.” For 10 points each:
Name this speech about “the road by which we reached our position, the form of government under which our greatness grew, and the national habits out of which it sprang.” It’s usually seen as a paean to Athenian democracy.
This author included fictionalized speeches like Pericles’ funeral oration and the Melian Dialogue in his History of the Peloponnesian War. He used a more “critical” style than his more anthropological predecessor, Herodotus.
Thucydides’ curt and archaic style was imitated by this Roman historian, who was praetor in 46 B.C. This native of Amiternum authored the War Against Jugurtha and the Conspiracy of Catiline.
Pericles’ funeral oration [accept reasonable equivalents involving Pericles speaking at a funeral; prompt on partial answer]
Thucydides
Gaius Sallustius Crispus &lt;SPQR&gt;
Participants of this event called for “Constantine and the Constitution.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1825 uprising against Tsar Nicholas I, named after the month in which it occurred.
The Decembrist revolt took place after the death of tsar Alexander I, whose son Alexander II emancipated these peasants, who lived in near-slavery.
Alexander II also promoted the autonomy of this country, whose language was elevated to national status, and which received its own currency called the markka.
Decembrist Revolt
serfs
Finland [or Suomi] &lt;VS&gt;
According to legend, this kingdom’s ruler Béhanzin smoked every day of his life. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom of the Fon people that was made into a French protectorate in 1894. As ruler, Ghezo ended this kingdom’s slave trade.
Dahomey was famed for its regiment of all-female warriors, who were given this name in reference to a race of warrior women from Greek mythology.
The Kingdom of Dahomey was located in this modern-day African country, which borders the former German colony of Togo. This country is named after a kingdom in neighboring Nigeria famed for its namesake “bronzes.”
Kingdom of Dahomey
Amazons
Republic of Benin [or République du Bénin; accept Benin Bronzes] &lt;MK&gt;
This queen may have been the dedicatee of the <em>Roman de Brut</em> by the poet Wace [wayss]. For 10 points each:
Name this patron of the troubadour Bernart de Ventadorn, who helped spread the ideals of “courtly love.” She supported several revolts by her own sons against their father, Henry II.
Eleanor was based in this French city, where King John was based for much of his early life. King John II of France was captured by Edward the Black Prince in a battle named for this city.
Eleanor’s older son Richard the Lionheart is best-known for participating in these military expeditions to the Holy Land, which succeeded in temporarily taking Jerusalem and not much else.
Eleanor of Aquitaine [or Aliénor d'Aquitaine]
Poitiers [pwa-TYAY] [accept Poitou or Poitevin]
Crusades &lt;JR&gt;
This event was sparked by a 1791 revolt led by the voodoo priest Dutty Boukman. For 10 points each:
Name this only slave revolt in recorded history to successfully establish an independent country governed by ex-slaves. This revolution in the French colony of Saint-Domingue was led by Toussaint Louverture.
During the revolution, Toussaint Louverture fought the mulatto Andre Rigaud in this war. This war was pivotal for Louverture’s control of southern Haiti.
The first ruler of independent Haiti was this man, who gave the speech “Liberty or Death” in 1804. This man was declared emperor Jacques I before being succeeded by the split rule of Henri Christophe and Alexandre Pétion.
Haitian Revolution
War of the Knives
Jean-Jacques Dessalines &lt;VS&gt;
Programs that share their name with this program were pioneered by Bob Hawke in Australia and Tommy Douglas in Canada. For 10 points each:
Name this federal old-age health insurance program that was established alongside Medicaid by the Social Security Amendments of 1965. Proponents of single-payer healthcare sometimes brand it as, “[this program] for all.”
The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 introduced this Medicare program that partially covers the cost of self-administered prescription drugs.
The MMA barely passed the House after an overnight session overseen by this then-Speaker of the House. This man was imprisoned in 2016 after admitting to abusing children during his career as a high school wrestling coach.
Medicare [accept Medicare for All]
Medicare Part D
(John) Dennis Hastert &lt;SE&gt;
This politician authored a report that defined 30 degrees North as the dividing line between the “prosperous North” and “developing South.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who also served as Governing Mayor of Berlin during the construction of the Berlin Wall. He was succeeded by Helmut Schmidt after an aide of his was revealed to be a spy.
Willy Brandt was Chancellor of this country. His policy of Ostpolitik was primarily aimed at improving relations with this country’s Communist Eastern counterpart during the Cold War.
Brandt’s resignation occurred due to the revelation that his aide Gunter Guillaume worked for this organization, which was the intelligence and state security apparatus of East Germany.
Willy Brandt
West Germany [Federal Republic of Germany; or FRG; or BRD; or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; do not accept or prompt on “East Germany” or “German Democratic Republic” “Deutsche Demokratische Republik” or “GDR” or “DDR”]
Stasi [or Ministry for State Security or Ministerium für Staatssicherheit or MfS; or State Security Service or Staatssicherheitsdienst or SSD] &lt;AF&gt;
During the Republic, municipalities could gain a limited form of this status called <em>sine suffragio</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this legal status that was granted to all free men in the Roman empire under Caracalla’s Constitutio Antoniniana. Roman slaves were denied this status, and women with this status still couldn’t vote or run for office.
Many Italian communities had gained citizenship after this war, in which Rome’s allies revolted following the death of Drusus the Younger. This war lasted from 91-88 BCE.
One result of the Social War was the preeminence of this man, who had convinced Bocchus to betray Jugurtha. Before his death in 78 BCE this man revived the office of dictator and purged his enemies with “proscriptions.”
Roman citizenship
Social War [accept Marsic War; accept Italian War]
Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about environmental disasters:
In 1989, this ship struck a reef in Prince William sound, sending 260,000 barrels of oil into the ocean.
As bad as Exxon Valdez was, this 2010 spill in the Gulf of Mexico was over 18 times worse. This spill began when the namesake BP drilling rig exploded a few miles off the coast of Louisiana.
From a human standpoint, probably the worst industrial disaster to date was a 1984 release of toxic methyl isocyanate from a Union Carbide plant in this Indian city.
Exxon Valdez [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
Deepwater Horizon
Bhopal &lt;BY&gt;
This man, who eventually became a U.S. Senator, did his most famous work as an Assistant Secretary of Labor under Lyndon Johnson. For 10 points each,
Name this author of the 1965 report “The Negro Family,” which claimed that “ghetto culture” was the cause of poverty among African-Americans, rather than a lack of job opportunities or the effects of racism.
Moynihan would serve as Senator from this U.S. state. His contemporaries from this state included Congressman Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. and Governor Nelson Rockefeller.
Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. was a major campaigner against these taxes on voter registration, which were often used to suppress black turnout. These taxes were banned by the 24th Amendment.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan
New York
poll taxes &lt;SCW&gt;
A 1549 document with this name organized the modern Low Countries into the “Seventeen Provinces.” For 10 points each,
Give this name used for a 1713 edict issued by Emperor Charles VI, who had no sons.
This woman took power in 1740 following the 1713 Pragmatic Sanction. Her son Joseph II attempted reforms like abolishing serfdom, but died at the age of 39.
Maria Theresa was a queen from this ruling family, whose motto, abbreviated A.E.I.O.U., roughly meant “Austria will rule the world.” Holy Roman Emperor Charles V was a member of this family.
Pragmatic Sanctions [or Sanctio Pragmatica]
Maria Theresa Walburga Amalia Christina
Habsburgs [or Hapsburgs] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about freshman congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez:
Ocasio-Cortez currently represents the fourteenth House district of this U.S. state. Its other politicians include representative Hakeem Jeffries and senior senator, Chuck Schumer.
Ocasio-Cortez is linked to the Sunrise Movement, an advocacy group for this set of environmentally-focused legislative goals. Its name alludes to a set of Great Depression-reversing programs enacted by FDR.
Ocasio-Cortez is a member of the House Banking Committee and this committee, whose chairmanship passed from Trey Gowdy to Elijah Cummings. Its chair can issue subpoenas without consulting the ranking member.
New York
Green New Deal [do not accept or prompt on just “New Deal”]
Committee on Oversight and Reform [or House Oversight Committee] &lt;SCW&gt;
These people included Antipater’s son Cassander. For 10 points each:
Name these Hellenistic generals who fought a series of wars for control of the Middle East and Central Asia starting in 323 B.C.
The diadochi were generals and friends of this king of Macedon who conquered Persia and reached India before dying at the age of 32.
This diadochus was rumored to be the half brother of his childhood friend Alexander the Great. The queens of his successors often took the name of his mother, Arisonoë, or his wife Berenice.
diadochi
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon]
Ptolemy I [prompt on Ptolemy] Soter &lt;JW&gt;
Massive inflation in this year sparked a flour riot in February. For 10 points each:
Name this year in which a financial panic was brought on by Martin Van Buren’s enforcement of the Specie Circular.
The Specie Circular was issued by this U.S. president, who liquidated the Second Bank of the U.S. This man created the “Trail of Tears” by ordering the forced march of the Cherokee and other tribes from their homeland.
The 1837 flour riot was carried out by “Locofocos” in this state, where William Leggett wrote many influential editorials.
1837
Andrew Jackson
New York &lt;JR&gt;
This city became capital of the Western Roman Empire in 402 A.D. For 10 points each:
Name this city, whose namesake “Exarchate” served as the Byzantine stronghold in Italy from 584-751 A.D, when its last exarch was put to death by the Lombards.
This Byzantine empress is depicted on the walls of San Vitale in Ravenna. This woman was accused of all kinds of depravity by Procopius in his Secret History.
Theodora was the wife of this Byzantine emperor, who successfully reconquered much of the former Western Empire and issued the landmark law code Corpus Juris Civilis.
Ravenna
Theodora
Justinian I [or Justinian the Great] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This man fathered the first <em>mestizo</em> child with an interpreter usually known as La Malinche. For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish conquistador who invaded and conquered the Aztec Empire. Early in his campaign, this man scuttled his ships so that his soldiers would fight without thought of retreat.
This soldier under Cortés later wrote the True History of the Conquest of New Spain, which spread many of the classic rumors and falsehoods about Cortés and Moctezuma.
Another major source for Cortés’s deeds is the General History by Bernardino de Sahagún, which was unusually written out in both Spanish and this language of the Aztecs.
Hernán Cortés (de Monroy y Pizarro Altamiran)
Bernal Díaz del Castillo
Nahuatl &lt;SPQR&gt;
This period was marked by the creation of “zombie banks” due to repeated government bailouts. For 10 points each:
Name this period sparked by the 1991 asset bubble collapse, which featured negative GDP growth and near-zero interest rates for the namesake amount of time. “Abenomics” [ah-bay-“nomics”] has largely succeeded in ending this period.
The Lost Decade refers to the decline of this Asian country’s economy, which remains the third largest in the world after the U.S. and China. This country saw substantial growth after World War II in its “economic miracle”.
Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi attempts to end the Lost Decade were cut short when he died from one of these events. Ariel Sharon entered a vegetative state after suffering one of these events in 2006.
Lost Decade [or Lost 10 Years; accept Lost Score or Lost 20 Years]
Japan [or Nippon; or Nihon]
having a stroke &lt;AF&gt;
This politician helped Jean-Baptiste Jourdan win at the Battle of Fleurus. For 10 points each:
Name this politician nicknamed the “Angel of Death,” who declared that “no one can reign innocently” in a speech before the National Convention. This disciple of Maximilian Robespierre planned the execution of Jacques Hébert.
Saint-Just was a member of this political club, founded by Robespierre. The Girondins [“jee-ron-DANS”] and Montagnards were both originally part of this larger political club.
The Jacobins were active during this historical event, which began with the Storming of the Bastille in 1789. It saw the Reign of Terror and the guillotining of Louis XVI.
Louis Antoine Léon de Saint-Just [“sen-JOUZ”]
Jacobins (or the Jacobin Club; or Society of the Friends of the Constitution)
French Revolution (prompt on Reign of Terror or Storming of the Bastille by asking, “which was part of which larger historical event?”) &lt;L. Li, European History&gt;
This woman is credited with developing the polar area diagram, which is a type of a pie chart. For 10 points each:
Name this English social reformer whom The Times nicknamed the “Lady With the Lamp.”
Nightingale became famous during this war which pitted Russia against an alliance of France, the United Kingdom, and the Ottoman Empire. British troops won a bloody victory at the Battle of Balaclava during this war.
Another woman who was active during the Crimean War was Mary Seacole, who operated the “British Hotel” near the frontlines for soldiers. Seacole was born in this British colony, the setting of two Maroon Wars.
Florence Nightingale
Crimean War
Jamaica &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the rotten luck of Robert Todd Lincoln, who once observed that “there is a certain fatality about presidential functions when I am present.”
Robert Todd Lincoln was notably absent when John Wilkes Booth did this to Robert’s father, then-president Abraham Lincoln.
Robert Todd Lincoln was present when this president was shot by Charles Guiteau. This president was succeeded by Chester Arthur, and the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act was passed in response to his death.
Robert Todd Lincoln was also present at the assassination of William McKinley by this anarchist in 1901.
assassination (accept word forms; accept any clear-knowledge equivalents like killing; prompt on shooting)
James Abram Garfield
Leon Czolgosz [“CHOL-gosh”] &lt;CGH, American History&gt;
In 1077, Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor journeyed to this town, where Matilda of Tuscany owned a castle. For 10 points each:
Name this town where that monarch was apparently refused entry for three days.
Henry IV’s humiliating Walk to Canossa was a low point for him during this struggle between him and the Church over who could appoint high-ranking religious officials.
Henry IV appeared before the seventh pope of this name. The first pope of this name, known as the “Great,” legendarily created his namesake “chants.” The thirteenth pope of this name created a namesake calendar.
Canossa
Investiture Controversy (or Investiture Contest)
Gregory (accept Gregory VII, Gregory I, or Gregory the Great; accept Gregorian chants or Gregorian calendar) &lt;Suh, European History; Finals&gt;
This woman’s revolt occurred after the death of her husband Prasutagus and the rape of her two daughters. For 10 points each:
Name this Iceni queen who revolted against the Roman Empire. She either died from sickness or via suicide after the failure of the revolt.
Boudica’s downfall came at this battle named after an ancient Roman road. At this battle, Gaius Suetonius Paulinus defied heavy odds to secure a Roman victory.
Boudica’s revolt made this Roman emperor consider removing all Roman troops from Britain. It is probably untrue that this man played the fiddle during the Great Fire of Rome.
Boudica (or Boadicea; or Buddug)
Battle of Watling Street
Nero &lt;Suh, Ancient History; Finals&gt;
The CDC was effectively stymied from funding research on this issue by the 1996 Dickey Amendment. For 10 points each:
Identify this issue. Activists against this issue include Jaclyn Corin and Emma González, who are both survivors of the 2018 Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting.
At the United Nations, this activist forcefully condemned world leaders for having “stolen her dreams, and her childhood.” Her inspiring advocacy has been deemed her namesake “effect.”
This conservative youth advocacy group has been dogged with allegations of racism and campaign finance violations. It was founded by Charlie Kirk.
gun violence (accept descriptive equivalents)
Greta Thunberg
Turning Point USA &lt;R. Li, Current Events; Finals&gt;
A holder of this position gave a confusing answer about “known knowns” in a press conference. For 10 points each:
Name this cabinet position that Donald Rumsfeld held twice. During his second stint in this position, Rumsfeld oversaw the American involvement in the Iraq War.
This first Secretary of Defense died after falling from a 16th-floor window of the hospital where he was being treated for depression.
Charles Erwin Wilson, Secretary of Defense under Dwight D. Eisenhower, was misquoted as saying “What’s good for [this company] is good for the country.”
Secretary of Defense (do NOT accept or prompt on “Secretary of War” or “Secretary of Navy”)
James Forrestal
General Motors (or GM) &lt;Suh, American History; Finals&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about explorers who may or may not have discovered the New World.
This Icelandic explorer is the first known European to have set foot on continental North America. His visit to “Vinland” has been tentatively identified with the archaeological site of L’Anse aux [“LAN sow”] Meadows in Newfoundland.
In his book 1421, pseudo-historian Gavin Menzies claimed that this Ming dynasty explorer was the first to visit the Americas. This man captured and executed the pirate Chen Zuyi during one of his “treasure voyages.”
Probably the most famous explorer of the New World is this Genoese navigator, who, in 1492, sailed the ocean blue.
Leif Erikson
Zheng He (or Cheng Ho; or Ma He)
Christopher Columbus &lt;Suh, World History; Finals&gt;
Groups of settlers in this state included the “Boomers,” who were led by Charles C. Carpenter. For 10 points each:
Name this state that was the setting of the Land Rush of 1889. During the Civil War, Union forces won the Battle of Honey Springs in this modern-day state.
The Land Rush found its legal grounding in this 1862 legislation signed by Abraham Lincoln, which allowed any US citizen who did not take up arms against the federal government to claim about 160 acres of public land.
The US bought much of present-day Oklahoma in this 1803 acquisition from France.
Oklahoma
Homestead Act
Louisiana Purchase &lt;Suh, American History; Finals&gt;
Some consider the doctrine of “substantive due process” to have been first applied in this case. For 10 points each:
Name this Supreme Court case in which Chief Justice Roger B. Taney [“TAW-nee”] ruled that African Americans, like the namesake of this case, were not American citizens.
This conservative Supreme Court Justice considered both Dred Scott and Roe v. Wade to be examples of the excess of substantive due process. This recently deceased originalist was known for his scathing dissents in cases like Obergefell v. Hodges.
The “substantive due process” doctrine draws its constitutional grounding from the Fifth and this other amendment.
Dred Scott v. Sandford (or Sandford v. Dred Scott)
Antonin Scalia
Fourteenth Amendment &lt;Suh, American History; Finals&gt;
The historian Josephus quoted the priest Berossus’s claim that this monarch built the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. For 10 points each:
Name this king of the Neo-Babylonian Empire who defeated Egypt in the Battle of Carchemish and conquered the Kingdom of Judah.
Berossus claimed that Nebuchadnezzar built the Hanging Gardens for his wife Amyntis, who was one of these ancient Iranian people who allied with the Neo-Babylonian Empire to conquer the Neo-Assyrian Empire.
Eventually, the Median Empire, Lydian Empire, and the Neo-Babylonian Empire were all conquered by this “Great” founder of the Persian Achaemenid Empire.
Nebuchadnezzar II (prompt on Nebuchadnezzar)
Medes [“meeds”] (or the Median Empire)
Cyrus II of Persia (or Cyrus the Great; or Cyrus the Elder; prompt on Cyrus) &lt;Suh, Ancient History; Finals&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following related to popular games played by European nobility.
Fox tossing, which involved launching live foxes and other animals into the air, was a popular blood sport for this king of Poland who was known for his incredible physical strength.
This English king challenged Francis I of France to a surprise wrestling match at the Field of the Cloth of Gold, but was humiliated when he quickly lost. This English king is perhaps better known for his six marriages.
In 1434, the knight Suero de Quiñones and ten companions played 166 matches of this game, suffering heavy injuries. Henry VIII was a big fan of this game, while Henry II of France died from participating in this activity.
Augustus II the Strong (or Augustus the Strong; accept Frederick Augustus I; prompt on Augustus)
Henry VIII (prompt on Henry)
jousting (or tilts) &lt;Suh, European History; Finals&gt;
It’s not India, but this modern-day country experienced a period known as “The Emergency” in which this country’s National Liberation Army waged guerrilla warfare under the leadership of Chin Peng. For 10 points each:
Name this Southeast Asian country that gained independence in August 1957. This country’s capital, Kuala Lumpur, was founded circa 1857.
Under British rule, Malaysia was the world’s largest exporter of tin and this other resource, which meant that the Malaysian economy was not very diversified.
Malaysia was affected by the broader 1997 Asian financial crisis, which prompted Indonesia, South Korea, and Thailand to receive bailouts from this international organization founded at the Bretton Woods conference.
Malaysia
rubber
International Monetary Fund (or IMF) &lt;Suh, World History; Finals&gt;
One of these people named “Black Sam” Bailey captured the <em>Whydah</em> in 1717, though he, the ship, and most of his men went down in a violent storm off the coast of Massachusetts later that year. For 10 points each:
Name these outlaws who attacked ships with the goal of capturing their cargo and other valuable items. The US fought two wars against these people of Berber origin who raided American ships in the Mediterranean Sea.
This pirate captured the French vessel La Concorde and renamed it Queen Anne’s Revenge. He once led an alliance of pirates to blockade the port of Charles Town.
After running Queen Anne’s Revenge aground, Blackbeard temporarily settled in this modern-day state. This colony’s Halifax Resolves were the first official resolution calling for independence from Britain in the thirteen colonies.
pirates (accept corsairs, buccaneers, freebooters, or privateers)
Blackbeard (or Edward Teach; or Edward Thatch)
North Carolina &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
The “flying geese paradigm” suggested that this country would lead its region in economic and technological development. For 10 points each:
Name this East Asian nation whose large corporate structures known as keiretsu [“kee-RET-soo”] led a rapid economic recovery of the country after enduring two nuclear bombings by the United States.
One keiretsu that grew during Japan’s economic recovery was this company that bought Columbia Pictures in 1989. In 1979, this company also launched the Walkman, a wildly successful brand of portable media players.
An emblem of Japan’s rapid economic growth is this network of high-speed bullet trains that began service in 1964. These high-speed trains have not caused a single casualty in their more than 50 years in operation.
Japan (or Nippon)
Sony
Shinkansen &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
The Egyptians weren’t the only ancient civilization with hieroglyphs and pyramids. For 10 points each:
The most sophisticated Mesoamerican writing system was by this civilization centered around what is now southern Mexico. This civilization built cities like Tikal, but collapsed in the 9th century.
This civilization in the Oaxaca [“wah-HAH-kah”] valley also had a glyphic writing system. This civilization’s capital of Monte Albán was one of the earliest Mesoamerican cities, and they were largely succeeded by the Mixtec.
This civilization further to the north used a largely ideographic writing system to create the Codex Mendoza and the Codex Borbonicus. Their capital city of Tenochtitlan was conquered by Hernán Cortés.
Mayan civilization (or Maya; anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on K’iche’ or Yucatec)
Zapotecs (accept Be’ena’a)
Aztecs &lt;CGH, Ancient History&gt;
Ray Santilli claimed to have observed an alien autopsy after a device from this military project crash landed. For 10 points each:
Name this project whose goal was to record sound waves in the atmospheric equivalent of the SOFAR channel. This project launched high-altitude balloons to detect Soviet nuclear tests.
The precursor to this branch of the US Armed Forces oversaw Project Mogul. This branch of the military operates weapons like the B-52 and military satellites.
V-shaped lights over this city, which were sighted in 1997 and again in 2007, were identified as flares dropped by the US Air Force. As of 2018, this Western city found in Maricopa County was the fifth most populous in the US.
Project Mogul (accept Operation Mogul)
United States Air Force (accept USAF)
Phoenix, Arizona &lt;K. Li, Other Academic&gt;
In the 1980s, this city was the setting of gang conflicts called the Ice Cream Wars. For 10 points each:
Name this non-Australian city that was also home to razor gangs in the 1920s and 1930s. This city became a center of shipbuilding and trade thanks to the River Clyde.
Glasgow was home to a group of wealthy merchants known as the “Lords” of this commodity. James I disliked this commodity greatly and wrote A Counterblaste against it.
Glasgow and Edinburgh are the largest cities in this country, whose independence fighters include Robert the Bruce and William Wallace.
Glasgow
tobacco (or Nicotiana tabacum; accept Tobacco Lords)
Scotland (or Alba) &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
This businessman’s goals include being “president of the world,” becoming immortal, and expanding the company he co-founded to Mars. For 10 points each:
Name this Israeli-American businessman, who has invoked his communal upbringing in a kibbutz as inspiration for the real estate company he co-founded. In September 2019, this man resigned as CEO of that company.
Led by Masayoshi Son, this Japanese conglomerate’s investments into Neumann’s WeWork have artificially inflated its market value. This conglomerate funneled almost 10 billion into WeWork in a recent bailout that has spooked investors.
After Neumann’s resignation, he was replaced by co-CEOs Artie Minson and Sebastian Gunningham, who previously served at this corporation’s namesake “marketplace” platform. This company was founded by Jeff Bezos.
Adam Neumann
SoftBank Group
Amazon &lt;R. Li, Current Events&gt;
The word “muckrakers” comes from a character in <em>Pilgrim’s Progress</em>, and became popular after Teddy Roosevelt referenced it in a 1906 speech. For 10 points each:
A notable muckraker was Nellie Bly, who spent ten days in one of these places and wrote a book recounting the terrible conditions there. They aren’t prisons, but Dorothea Dix campaigned for the reform of these places.
A famous muckraker was Ida Tarbell, who wrote a 1904 History of this oil monopoly founded by John D. Rockefeller and Henry Flagler.
Tarbell’s work and Ray Stannard Baker’s earlier exposé [“ex-poe-ZAY”] of US Steel were published in this magazine. This magazine also published the first detailed look into Christian Science.
insane asylums (or mental hospitals, mental institutions, or other equivalents; accept Ten Days in a Mad-House; prompt on hospitals)
Standard Oil Company
McClure’s Magazine &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about Catherine the Great.
Catherine was married to an emperor of this name, who reigned for less than a year before being deposed and possibly killed by Catherine. Another emperor of this name led Russia during the Great Northern War.
One of Catherine’s lovers was this man who launched the coup that overthrew Peter III. For some time, this man was virtually co-rulers with Catherine, though he eventually fell from favor.
Catherine also mediated the War of the Bavarian Secession, a conflict also known as a war of these things. A blight of this crop caused a massive famine in Ireland.
Peter (accept Peter III; accept Peter I or Peter the Great)
Grigory Orlov
potatoes &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
The Turkish words for “law” and “constitution” come from the name of this set of laws that Harold Lamb has tried to reconstruct. For 10 points each:
Name this secret law code that governed the Mongol Empire. Interestingly, no Mongolian scrolls or codices of the law have been found.
The Yassa law code was probably created by this conqueror who founded the Mongol Empire.
Beside the Yassa and The Secret History of the Mongols, this location in Mongolian history is also shrouded in secrecy. One legend claims that a river was diverted over this location, while another says everyone who knew its location was killed.
Yassa
Genghis Khan (or Chinggis Khan; or Temujin)
tomb of Genghis Khan (accept descriptive equivalents about the burial place of Genghis Khan; do NOT accept or prompt on “Genghis Khan Mausoleum,” which is a temple; prompt on just tomb) &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
Christer Pettersson was convicted of this man’s murder, but was later acquitted on appeal. For 10 points each:
Name this Swedish Prime Minister who was assassinated by gunshot in February 1986. His death remains controversial, spawning many conspiracy theories.
One theory suggests that Palme was killed by South Africa because he was strongly anti-apartheid and had funneled money to this South African political party that won the 1994 elections thanks to Nelson Mandela.
Palme was assassinated in this city. In 1973, Jan [“YON”] Erik Olsson took four bank employees hostage in this city, and the hostages’ sympathy toward their captor led to the identification of a “syndrome” named for this capital of Sweden.
Olof Palme
African National Congress (or ANC)
Stockholm (accept Stockholm syndrome) &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
This ruler built a sadistic torture chamber designed to look like a beautiful palace. For 10 points each:
Name this Mauryan emperor who later converted to Buddhism and inscribed namesake edicts describing his thoughts on the religion onto pillars.
Ashoka converted to Buddhism after his conquest of this West Indian kingdom supposedly resulted in hundreds of thousands of casualties. The war against this kingdom was the final phase of Mauryan military expansion.
After his conversion to Buddhism, Ashoka sent monks to spread Buddhism to this island off the southern coast of India. This country was historically known as Ceylon.
Ashoka the Great
Kalinga (accept Kalinga War)
Sri Lanka &lt;Duffy, World History&gt;
This faction’s name derived from a term meaning “cattle driver” that was later applied to Presbyterian rebels. For 10 points each:
Name this group that emerged during the Exclusion Crisis under the leadership of the Earl of Shaftesbury. They title a school of historiography that views history as a march of progress towards greater liberty and enlightenment.
From the 17th to the early 19th century the Whigs were mainly opposed by this party, the ancestor of the modern Conservative party. Leaders of this party included William Pitt the Younger and the Duke of Wellington.
Both Whigs and Tories served in this leadership position, which today is the head of government of Britain. Robert Walpole is considered the first to hold this position, and the current holder is Boris Johnson.
Whigs
Tory party (accept Tories; do NOT accept or prompt on “Conservative”)
Prime Minister &lt;L. Li, British History&gt;
This place was the site of the 1826 Christmas Eggnog Riot involving Jefferson Davis, while George Custer chalked up a record 726 demerits at this place. For 10 points each:
Name this place, originally a fort, that Benedict Arnold tried to hand over to the British during the Revolutionary War. It is now the site of the United States Military Academy.
This man testified before a Congressional inquiry on hazing at West Point and graduated at the top of his class in 1903. This man met with President Truman at the Wake Island Conference before being replaced in one command by Matthew Ridgway.
This man nicknamed “Vinegar Joe” is credited with introducing basketball to West Point. During World War II, this general served under Chiang Kai-shek and often clashed with Claire L. Chennault’s “Flying Tigers.”
West Point
Douglas MacArthur
Joseph Stilwell &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
The Battle of Rocroi in this war marked the end of the dominance of Spanish military formations known as the <em>tercio</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this war that originally started as a conflict between the various Protestant and Catholic states within the Holy Roman Empire until Gustavus Adolphus intervened in 1630.
England may have been inspired by a tactic that the Ottomans had used at the 1396 Battle of Nicopolis to win the Battle of Agincourt during this long war that lasted about a century.
The French military engineer Vauban and his Dutch counterpart Menno van Coehoorn [“COO-horn”] each defended and besieged the town of Namur during this conflict, also known by the alliance that opposed Louis XIV.
Thirty Years’ War
Hundred Years’ War
Nine Years’ War (or War of the Grand Alliance; or War of the League of Augsburg) &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
An economic policy this country pursued in the 1980s was dubbed “Rogernomics.” For 10 points each:
Name this country where controversy arose in 1981 about whether or not to host the Springboks for rugby matches. This country was the first to grant women the right to vote in 1893.
The aforementioned controversy arose because the Springboks were the national rugby team of this country. In 1977, New Zealand signed the Gleneagles Agreement which denounced this country’s policy of apartheid.
This New Zealand Prime Minister during the rugby scandal came to power promising to lead a “government of the ordinary bloke.” This man championed “Think Big” industrial projects but left power amid a constitutional crisis in 1984.
New Zealand (or Aotearoa)
South Africa
Robert Muldoon &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
Operation Paul Bunyan took place in this area as a result of an axe murder incident. For 10 points each:
Name this heavily fortified strip of land created in July 1953. An armistice was signed in Panmunjom [“pan-moon-jum”], a village within this area.
The 1953 armistice signed in Panmunjom ceased large-scale military hostilities started by this communist country three years ago, when Kim Il-Sung launched an invasion of its southern neighbor.
Less than a week after the inauguration of Lyndon B. Johnson, North Korea captured this American spy ship, killing one of its sailors. This ship is still in Pyongyang, and is the only commissioned US ship in captivity.
Demilitarized Zone (or DMZ; prompt on Joint Security Area or JSA; prompt on North Korea–South Korea border, but do NOT REVEAL this)
North Korea (or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; or DPRK; prompt on Korea; do NOT accept or prompt on “South Korea,” “Republic of Korea,” or “ROK”)
USS Pueblo &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
A gladiator walks into a bar, holds up two fingers, and asks for five good emperors. For 10 points each, answer the following about “five” in Roman imperial history.
This emperor, the second of the aforementioned five good emperors, championed the massive territorial expansion of the empire; his ashes were buried under his namesake column.
This earlier emperor in both the years 5 BCE and 5 CE was the first emperor of Rome, the adopted son of Julius Caesar and husband of Livia Drusilla, and the namesake of the month after July.
This much later emperor seized power at the end of the much later Year of the Five Emperors in the wake of the death of Pertinax. This first Roman emperor born in Africa was succeeded by his sons Caracalla and Geta.
Trajan (or Marcus Ulpius Traianus)
Augustus (or Octavian; accept Gaius Octavius Thurinus)
Lucius Septimius Severus Augustus (prompt on just Severus) &lt;CGH, Ancient History&gt;
This man’s supporters called him the Grand Old Man, while his political rivals called him God’s Only Mistake. For 10 points each:
Name this Liberal Prime Minister who introduced secret voting but failed to pass Irish Home Rule. This man attacked his rival in the “Midlothian Campaign.”
This rival of Gladstone and the only Prime Minister of Jewish descent represented Britain at the Congress of Berlin and gave the title of “Empress of India” to Queen Victoria.
Gladstone was heavily criticized for delaying the mission to rescue this military commander. This general died at the Siege of Khartoum in the Mahdist War.
William Gladstone
Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield (accept either underlined part)
Charles George Gordon (or Chinese Gordon) &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about women who helped the US win wars, each in their own ways.
This woman fought at the Battle of Monmouth during the Revolutionary War. According to legend, her husband William collapsed during the battle, and she took his place manning artillery.
A group of Ursuline nuns prayed before the statue of Our Lady of Prompt Succor for victory during this battle. Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Mullins forgot to bring ladders to this battle, which contributed to the American victory.
This was the name of a fictional female munitions worker created to encourage women to join the workforce during World War II. A 1943 poster titled “We Can Do It!” is a depiction of this “Riveter” flexing her right arm.
Molly Pitcher (or Mary Ludwig Hays)
Battle of New Orleans
Rosie the Riveter &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
The Romans established the town of Aquincum around AD 100 at the site of this present-day city. For 10 points each:
Name this capital city officially created in 1873 from a merger of three neighboring cities.
This country declined after it lost the 1526 Battle of Mohács [“MO-hotch”] and was conquered by the Ottoman Empire after the city of Buda fell in 1541.
This was the name of the first king of Hungary, who was crowned as king either on Christmas 1000 or New Year 1,001. Another man of this first name from the Báthory family warred against Ivan the Terrible.
Budapest (prompt on Buda, Pest, or Óbuda)
Hungary (or Magyarország)
Stephen (accept Stephen I or Saint Stephen; accept Stephen Báthory) &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
This politician’s frequent gaffes have inspired a portmanteau referring to the cartoon character Condorito. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who abruptly interrupted a 2013 Oval Office meeting with President Obama by sitting behind his desk. In response to recent civil unrest in his country, this politician declared “we are at war.”
Piñera currently serves as the president of this country, where a proposed increase in metro fares has sparked violent protests in its capital of Santiago.
Michelle Bachelet, a former president of Chile and this organization’s High Commissioner for Human Rights, has called for open dialogue and independent investigations in response to turmoil in Chile.
Sebastián Piñera
Chile
the United Nations (or UN) &lt;R. Li, Current Events&gt;
Singing and revolutions go hand-in-hand. For 10 points each:
The Singing Revolution was named after spontaneous singing demonstrations at the Tallinn Song Festival Grounds. The revolution led to the independence of the Baltic states from the Soviet Union, which was led at the time by this man.
The traditional Spanish folk song “La Cucaracha” became famous during a revolution in this country that saw the fall of Porfirio Díaz’s government and the assassinations of Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa.
A signal to begin this revolution was the airing of the song “And After the Farewell,” an entry at the Eurovision Song Contest of 1974. Samuel Huntington claimed this event caused the “third wave” of democratization.
Mikhail Gorbachev
Mexico
Carnation Revolution (or 25 April) &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
Andrew Jackson Myrick stirred the anger of these people by saying, “So far as I am concerned, if they are hungry, let them eat grass or their own dung.” For 10 points each:
Name these Native American people who won the Fetterman Fight and gained recognition in the Fort Laramie Treaty. Notable leaders of these people included Crazy Horse.
During this man’s presidency, 38 Sioux men were sentenced to death in the largest mass execution in history on American soil. Earlier, this man also refused Zachary Taylor’s offer to become governor of Oregon.
The Sioux achieved a notable victory against the US army at the Battle of the Little Bighorn, where forces under this American commander made a “Last Stand” before being annihilated.
Sioux [“soo”] (accept the following: Lakota, Dakota, Nakota, Santee, or Yanktonai)
Abraham Lincoln
George Custer (or George Armstrong Custer) &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
Because of this policy, the Oder–Niesse line was finally recognized after the Treaty of Moscow and the Treaty of Warsaw. For 10 points each:
Name this policy, which Egon Bahr dubbed “Change through Rapprochement,” that led to the formal recognition of a country that had been antagonized by the Hallstein Doctrine.
Ostpolitik was formulated by Willy Brandt, a chancellor of this country that was later reunited with its eastern neighbor in 1990 after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
In 1989, many East Germans emigrated to West Germany along the “Trabi Trail,” a route named for a particularly shoddy brand of these things dubbed the Trabant. The Yugo was another kind of this object.
Neue Ostpolitik
West Germany (or the Federal Republic of Germany or FRG; accept Bundesrepublik Deutschland or BRD; prompt on Germany; do NOT accept or prompt on “East Germany”)
cars (or automobiles) &lt;L. Li, European History&gt;
Artifacts from these people have been discovered in the Petrossa Treasure hoard in modern-day Romania. For 10 points each:
Name these Germanic peoples. Two branches of them were influential in the fall of the Western Roman Empire.
The Visigoths allied with the Roman Empire to fight this brother of Bleda at the Battle of Catalaunian Plains. This “Scourge of God” promised Pope Leo I to not attack Rome.
The Visigothic king at the Battle of Catalaunian Plains had this name. Another man of this name known as the “Great” killed Odoacer [“oh-doh-EY-ser”] to become the king of the Ostrogoths.
Goths
Attila the Hun
Theodoric (accept Theodoric I or Theodoric the Great) &lt;Suh, Ancient History&gt;
This ruler sentenced Giuseppe Mazzini to death <em>in absentia</em> and executed several members of Young Italy after an 1833 incident in Genoa, actions which Mazzini never forgave him for. For 10 points each:
Name this Savoy king of Sardinia whose forces lost the battles of Custoza and Novara to Joseph Radetsky and the Austrians during the First Italian War of Independence.
Charles Albert lends his name to one of these things, other examples of which include a “May 3” one created in Poland in 1791.
Charles Albert envisioned an Italian federation led by the holder of this position, who leads the Catholic Church. Holders of this position have included Pius IX and Benedict XVI, and they reside in Vatican City.
Charles Albert of Sardinia
constitutions (accept the Albertine Statute; accept constitutional monarchy)
Pope (or Pontifex Maximus, Supreme Pontiff, or the Papacy; accept the Bishop of Rome) &lt;L. Li, European History&gt;
A group of these people who lived north of the Vaal River gained independence via the Sand River Convention of 1852. For 10 points each:
Name these people who rose up in the Maritz Rebellion and fought the Siege of Mafeking [“MAF-fuh-king”] against Robert Baden-Powell’s British forces.
Tensions between the Boers and the British intensified after the discovery of this shiny metal at the Witwatersrand Basin. That discovery caused the greatest “rush” of this metal in history.
This president of the South African Republic was the face of the Boer cause during the war. As the war went badly for the Boers, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands extracted this man to Europe, where he died in exile.
Boers (accept Afrikaners)
gold
Paul Kruger &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
These things were the subject of scrutiny by a Senate subcommittee chaired by Estes Kefauver. For 10 points each:
Name these works, a particularly graphic one of which Kefauver entered into evidence after publisher William Gaines contended that he only sold these works with “good taste.”
Kefauver’s Vice Presidential rival in the 1956 presidential election was Richard Nixon, who became famous during his time in HUAC investigating this man suspected of being a Soviet spy.
In 1950, this Senator nicknamed “Tail-Gunner Joe” caused an uproar by claiming to have a list of Communists working in the State Department. His namesake “-ism” refers to reckless and unsubstantiated accusations.
comic books
Alger Hiss
Joseph McCarthy (accept McCarthyism) &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
This stuff was mandated to be distributed for free by the Education Act of 1944, and Edward Short was the first to remove funding for this stuff in 1968. For 10 points each:
Name this foodstuff that ceased to be given out for free to children aged 7–11 in public schools in 1971. A politician who spearheaded the cost-cutting effort was heavily criticized for “snatching” this away.
This “Iron Lady” and future Prime Minister who pushed for education cuts that abolished free milk in schools was given the nickname “Milk Snatcher.”
In 1984, Thatcher narrowly survived an assassination attempt by the IRA member Patrick Magee who planted a bomb in a hotel in this town. Thatcher survived, though five people died in the explosion.
milk
Margaret Thatcher
Brighton &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
An important administrative title within the government of this civilization can be translated as the “chief of the wine stewards.” For 10 points each:
Identify this ancient Anatolian civilization that fought the Egyptians at the Battle of Kadesh.
The Hittites were based in this modern-day country. Archaeological sites in this modern-day country include Troy, Göbekli Tepe [“go-BECK-lee TEH-pay”], and many sites near Istanbul.
Hittite records mention another civilization to the west known as Ahhiyawa, which is thought to refer to this ancient Greek civilization known for creating beehive-shaped tholos tombs and the Mask of Agamemnon.
Hittites (or the Hittite Empire)
Turkey
Mycenaean civilization &lt;Suh, Ancient History&gt;
Cod has played a surprisingly large role in the history of Britain. For 10 points each:
The UK lost a series of territorial disputes known as “Cod Wars” to Iceland, mainly because Iceland is strategically located in the GIUK gap, a naval choke point between Iceland, the UK, and this large Danish landmass.
During the reign of this monarch, William Pitt the Elder called cod “British gold.” Britain experienced the “Regency era” near the end of this ruler’s life.
In this 1904 agreement between the United Kingdom and France, France agreed to give up claims to the cod fisheries in Newfoundland. This agreement greatly improved Anglo–French relations on the eve of World War I.
Greenland
George III (prompt on George)
Entente Cordiale [“ahn-TAHNT cor-dee-ALL”] &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following history bonus somewhat related to soccer, your head editor’s favorite sport.
FIFA [“fee-fah”] recognizes a traditional East Asian game called cuju [“cu-jee-oh”] as the oldest predecessor of the sport. One avid player of cuju was Zhao Kuangyin, the founder of this Chinese dynasty that lost the Battle of Yamen.
Courts for this widespread ritualistic game have been found throughout the Americas, whose modern version is called ulama. Players of this game probably used their hips, though some may have also used rackets or bats.
According to rumors, this Italian dictator sent the telegram “Vincere o morire!” meaning “Win or die!” to the Italian team competing in the 1938 World Cup. It must have worked, as Italy won the tournament.
Song dynasty
Mesoamerican ballgame
Benito Mussolini &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
Adverse events during this man’s administration include the Three Mile Island nuclear accident and Iran hostage crisis. For 10 points each:
Name this president who spoke about a “crisis of confidence” in his “malaise” speech. This peanut farmer also served as the 76th Governor of Georgia and left the White House after losing the 1980 election to Ronald Reagan.
Carter’s presidency was marred by the effects of this economic phenomenon. UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Iain Macleod coined its name as a portmanteau of two economic phenomena that usually do not occur concurrently.
This Fed chairman under Carter and Reagan was credited with combatting the high inflation of the 1970s and 1980s. This man’s namesake “rule” seeks to discourage banks from making certain types of speculative investments.
Jimmy Carter
stagflation (I guess prompt on stagnation or inflation)
Paul Volcker (accept Volcker rule) &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
Name these relatively secret groups active during the Revolutionary War. For 10 points each:
The Culper Ring, active in New York City during the war, offered valuable information to this commander of the Continental Army and first president and may have thwarted an assassination attempt on his life.
This group of Continental Army officers attempted to remove Washington as their commander. The namesake of this group later resigned his military post and apologized to Washington, who never acknowledged it.
Many of the Founding Fathers, including George Washington and Benjamin Franklin, were members of this fraternal organization. The death of William Morgan galvanized political opposition against this group.
George Washington
Conway Cabal
Freemasonry (or Masonry; accept Freemasons or Masons) &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
This man believed that the United States and Great Britain would merge together, saying “We are heading straight to the Re-United States.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of the book Triumphant Democracy which argued that the American republican system was superior to the British monarchy. William Gladstone attacked this man’s essay titled “Wealth.”
Carnegie opposed the annexation of this island nation and even offered $20 million of his own money so that the people of this country could buy their freedom. Emilio Aguinaldo fought for this country’s independence.
Carnegie’s secretary James Bertram oversaw Carnegie’s philanthropic efforts, including the building of many of these institutions across the country. One of these institutions “of Congress” houses more than 38 million books.
Andrew Carnegie
the Philippines
library (accept Carnegie library) &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
A legend claims that while this king was on the run, he took refuge in a peasant woman’s house but let her cakes burn under his watch to the woman’s great displeasure. For 10 points each:
Name this early Anglo-Saxon king of Wessex whose rule was chronicled by the bishop Asser. This king translated Boethius’ Consolation of Philosophy and fought against the Viking leader Guthrum.
The Treaty of Wedmore between Alfred and the Viking leader Guthrum created this territory for the defeated Guthrum. The name of this territory refers to the influence that the Vikings had over it.
Around 886, Alfred occupied this city and started restoring it, a part of which was building fortifications on the south bank of the River Thames [“tems”].
Alfred the Great
Danelaw
London &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
Pedro Arrupe, a leader of this organization, advocated taking a preferential option for the poor. For 10 points each:
Name this religious order founded by Ignatius of Loyola. Ignatius’ personal motto of ad majorem Dei gloriam, or “for the greater glory of God,” became this group’s motto.
This current pope is the first Jesuit to be elected pope. He was Archbishop of Buenos Aires before succeeding Benedict XVI as pope in 2013.
The preferential option for the poor was central to this controversial movement in Latin America in the mid-20th century. It was established at the Medellín [“meh-deh-YEEN”] Conference and based on the writings of Gustavo Gutiérrez.
Society of Jesus (or Jesuits; or Societas Jesu; prompt on SJ)
Francis (or Jorge Mario Bergoglio)
liberation theology (do NOT accept or prompt on “liberal theology”) &lt;Kao, Religion&gt;
One ruler of this empire selected the so-called “Nine Jewels” to serve in his court. For 10 points each:
Name this empire ruled by people like Aurangzeb.
The Mughal Empire is considered to have been founded with a victory at this battle, where Babur crushed the forces of Ibrahim Lodi.
The most famous example of Mughal architecture is this white-domed mausoleum built by the emperor Shah Jahan. The mausoleum houses the tomb of both Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz.
Mughal Empire (or Moghul Empire)
First Battle of Panipat (do NOT accept or prompt on “Second Battle of Panipat”)
Taj Mahal &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
Ivaylo of Bulgaria wasn’t the only important “Cabbage” in European history. For 10 points each:
This Roman republican statesman devoted two chapters of his De Agricultura to cabbage, which he claimed “surpasses all other vegetables.” He is better known for his persistent calls for the destruction of Carthage.
Pliny the Elder described seven varieties of cabbage, including one named for this city that was wiped out alongside Herculaneum by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79.
A later Roman cabbage enthusiast was this emperor, who retired to farm cabbages in AD 305. He defeated Carinus at the Battle of the Margus, and his Edict on Maximum Prices led to massive inflation.
Marcus Porcius Cato the Elder (prompt on just Cato; or Cato Major, Cato the Censor, Cato the Wise, or Cato the Ancient; do NOT accept or prompt on “Cato the Younger” or “Cato Minor”)
Pompeii
Diocletian (or Diocles Valerius; or Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus Augustus) &lt;CGH, Ancient History&gt;
<em>Description acceptable</em>. Fox News anchor Trish Regan first publicized this document via Twitter. For 10 points each:
Name this document, whose recipient purportedly tossed it in the trash upon receiving. In this document, the author invokes Pastor Andrew Brunson’s detention and urges: “Don’t be a tough guy. Don’t be a fool!”
President Trump sent that letter to President Erdoğan amid bipartisan criticism of his decision to withdraw American forces from this country. War criminal Bashar al-Assad governs from this country’s capital of Damascus.
Turkey’s recent incursions into Syria have been aimed at curbing the influence of this ethnic group, whose YPG faction allied with the US to combat ISIL. This ethnic group’s PKK is deemed a terrorist group by the EU.
Donald Trump’s October 2019 letter to Recep Tayyip Erdoğan [“ERD-oh-wan”] (accept descriptive equivalents like Trump’s letter to the President of Turkey)
Syria
Kurds &lt;R. Li, Current Events&gt;
Mothers of the <em>desaparecidos</em> protested many of the deaths that occurred during this period. For 10 points each:
Name this period of state terrorism during Jorge Videla’s government from 1976 to 1983, a part of the wider Operation Condor. During this time, death squads known as “Triple A” made many political dissidents “disappear.”
The Dirty War was a brutal time in the history of this South American country that lost the Falklands War to the United Kingdom. In 1994, this country made its capital Buenos Aires an Autonomous City.
Videla came to power in 1976 via a coup against a politician with this last name. A popular Argentine political movement comes from this surname, shared by the politicians Juan and Isabel.
Dirty War
Argentina
Perón (accept Juan Perón or Isabel Perón; accept Peronism) &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
A monument commemorating the victims of this event has a cross quoting Romans 12 and reads, “Vengeance is mine, thus saith the Lord. I shall repay.” For 10 points each:
Name these 1857 killings that occurred on the Baker–Fancher wagon train, in which 120 to 140 people were killed during these attacks.
The massacre was perpetrated by Paiute Native Americans and members of this religious group founded by Joseph Smith. This group mostly settled in Utah.
This man who was President of the Mormon Church at the time of the massacre banned priesthood of African-American males in the church. He also resisted the US Army in the Utah War, or “Buchanan’s Blunder.”
Mountain Meadows massacre
Church of Latter-Day Saints (or LDS; or the Mormon Church)
Brigham Young &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
Francis II was the last person to hold this title, which was abolished after a devastating defeat at the Battle of Austerlitz. For 10 points each:
Name this title, the holders of which almost always concurrently held the title of “King of Germany.” Charles V controlled vast amounts of territory because he held this title and the kingship of Spain.
This Holy Roman Emperor launched seven campaigns into Italy to assert his authority over the Papacy and the Lombard League. After winning the Battle of Iconium in the Third Crusade, he drowned in the Saleph River.
According to legend, Frederick forced the nobles of this rebellious Italian city to remove a fig from a donkey’s rear with their mouths. About 700 years later, the Risorgimento began with an event titled “Five Days” of this city.
Holy Roman Emperor (or Emperor of the Romans; or German-Roman Emperor; accept HRE)
Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor (or Frederick Barbarossa; or Friedrich I)
Milan (or Milano; accept Five Days of Milan) &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
The two strongest proponents of this legislation were called the “Terrible Twins.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1909 legislation passed during the ministry of H. H. Asquith that included a “supertax” on high-income earners and a 20% tax on land values.
The People’s Budget was primarily developed by this Liberal politician and future British Prime Minister. He was the British representative at the Paris Peace Conference.
Lloyd George was Prime Minister during the latter half of this global conflict, which began after Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinated. It was ended by the Treaty of Versailles [“ver-SYE”].
The People’s Budget
David Lloyd George
World War I (or WWI, the First World War, or the Great War) &lt;L. Li, British History&gt;
Sir John Chilcot led a public inquiry into British involvement in this war. For 10 points each:
Chilcot’s report concluded that this war was unnecessary, and that in 2003, Saddam Hussein did not pose a great threat to British interests.
Under this Prime Minister, the United Kingdom participated in the Afghanistan and Iraq Wars. This close ally of George W. Bush signed the Good Friday Agreement with Northern Ireland in 1998.
This successor of Tony Blair ordered the Chilcot report in 2009. Regarding the Afghanistan and Iraq Wars, this man often said “War is tragic,” which echoed Blair who had earlier said “War is terrible.”
Iraq War (or the War in Iraq; or Second Gulf War)
Tony Blair
Gordon Brown &lt;Suh, British History&gt;
This woman spearheaded a failed planned community in Arthurdale, West Virginia for the families of unemployed miners. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who convinced her husband to stay in politics after he lost the normal use of his legs to a paralytic disease then thought to be polio. She was First Lady from 1933 to 1945.
Roosevelt chaired the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women, whose report concluded that this proposed amendment was not the best way to achieve female equality. Phyllis Schlafly opposed this amendment.
Near the end of her life, Roosevelt chaired the Tractors for Freedom Committee, which was formed in the wake of this event in a failed effort to ransom members of Brigade 2506.
Eleanor Roosevelt (prompt on Roosevelt) [Writer’s note: Apparently, FDR suffered from Guillain–Barré syndrome, not polio.]
Equal Rights Amendment (or ERA)
Bay of Pigs invasion (or Operation Zapata) &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
This centuries-long campaign is considered to have started with a victory at the Battle of Covadonga by Pelagius of Asturias. For 10 points each:
Name this military campaign that ended with the surrender of Muhammad XII, also known as Boabdil. Soon after the end of this campaign, Jews who would not convert to Christianity were expelled from the reconquered territories.
The 1147 Siege of Lisbon is considered to be a victory during the Reconquista and also this other campaign which was started as a response to the fall of Edessa to the Zengids [“ZEN-ghids”] three years prior.
About a hundred years later, Lisbon became the capital of this kingdom, which now shares the Iberian Peninsula with Spain.
the Reconquista
Second Crusade (prompt on Crusades)
Portugal &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
This man claimed that pictures of him and his family drinking and partying at a Miami nightclub were Photoshopped, prompting photographer Seth Browarnik to release more of them. For 10 points each:
Name this American evangelical. One of this man’s sons Instagrammed a picture of $12,000 during a visit to Michael Cohen, who hired one of this man’s employees to rig online polls for the Trump campaign.
During his tenure as this university’s president, Falwell has drawn scrutiny for shady business deals. A Politico exposé on Falwell was authored by Brandon Ambrosino, a graduate of this evangelical Christian university.
Liberty University is located in this state, whose Attorney General Mark Herring and Governor Ralph Northam were embroiled in a blackface scandal. This state’s capital is Richmond.
Jerry Falwell, Jr.
Liberty University
Virginia &lt;R. Li, Current Events&gt;
One attempt at accomplishing this task involved launching an extremely heavy iron hammer at a carriage, while another attempt involved flinging a lead-filled lute at a person. For 10 points each:
Name this task that Zhang Liang, Jing Ke, and Gao Jianli all failed to achieve.
Zhang Liang would later become a key strategist for Liu Bang, who defeated Xiang Yu [“shiang-yoo”] and founded this dynasty.
No one knows the actual cause of death of Qin Shi Huang, but he may have died from ingesting mercury pills given to him by court alchemists in a misguided effort to help him achieve this state.
assassination of Qin Shi Huangdi (accept reasonable equivalents of “assassination”; accept Ying Zheng or Zhao Zheng in place of Qin Shi Huangdi; prompt on just assassination)
Han dynasty
become immortal (accept reasonable equivalents like live forever; prompt on good health) &lt;Suh, Ancient History&gt;
This man named his retirement home Sherwood Forest to express his sentiment that he had been “outlawed” by his own political party. For 10 points each:
Name this President whose administration saw the signing of the Webster–Ashburton Treaty. Shortly before his death, he was elected to the Confederate House of Representatives.
Three days before leaving office, Tyler signed a bill to annex this territory. This territory fought a war against Mexico at the Alamo.
Tyler’s administration suffered badly when a gun on the USS Princeton exploded and killed six people including Secretary of State Abel P. Upshur, who was then replaced by this man.
John Tyler
Texas (accept Republic of Texas)
John C. Calhoun &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
The last person to be officially referred to by this title was Maximinus II. For 10 points each:
Name this title commonly held by the rulers of Ancient Egypt. Cleopatra and her son Caesarion were the last holders of this title before Egypt’s annexation into the Roman Empire.
This was the Mandinka word for the sultan of the Mali Empire. The tenth ruler to hold this position was known for his generous expenditures while on a pilgrimage.
The title Mai was held by Idris Alooma and other rulers of the Kanem–Bornu Empire, which was centered around this African geographical feature.
pharaoh
mansa (accept Mansa Musa; generously prompt on Musa)
Lake Chad &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
One of the 25 sureties of this document, Robert FitzWalter, had earlier joined a conspiracy against a monarch after accusing that monarch of attempting to seduce his daughter Matilda. For 10 points each:
Name this 1215 document signed at Runnymede, which guaranteed rights and limited the power of the English crown. A monarch’s refusal to abide by this document led to the First Barons’ War.
The Magna Carta was agreed to by this English king who was excommunicated after he refused to appoint Stephen Langton the Archbishop of Canterbury.
The Magna Carta was accompanied by a 1217 “charter” named for these places, which established the right of free men to access these places. Pannage rights apply to these places.
Magna Carta Libertatum (or the Great Charter of Liberties)
John Lackland (or John I)
forests (accept Charter of the Forest; accept royal forests) [Writer’s note: Pannage is the right to feed livestock pigs on a forest’s fallen nuts.] &lt;L. Li, British History&gt;
Not everything that’s named after an American president is actually in the United States. For 10 points each:
Boggy Peak, the highest point on the island of Antigua, was renamed in 2009 after this first African-American president of the United States. The name was changed back to Boggy Peak in 2016.
This South American country named its Presidente Hayes department after President Rutherford B. Hayes. It is the only South American country that has never had a coastline.
This other country has the only non-US national capital named after a US president. This country’s nearby city of Buchanan, however, is not named after president James Buchanan; it’s named after his cousin Thomas.
Barack Obama
Republic of Paraguay
Republic of Liberia [Writer’s note: The capital is Monrovia.] &lt;CGH, Geography&gt;
Congratulations! You are the newborn child of a sitting Byzantine emperor. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about yourself.
Because you were born after your father had become emperor, you are described by this phrase, referring to the fact that your mother probably gave birth in a room decorated with a very expensive color.
You became the eighth emperor with this name who ruled from 962 to 1025. The first emperor of this name, nicknamed “the Great,” is the namesake of the capital city you ruled from.
Unfortunately, you didn’t do much during your reign, as you spent most of it co-reigning with your brother Basil II. Basil won the Battle of Kleidion against these people, and was thus known as the “Slayer” of these people.
born in the purple (or porphyrogenitus; prompt on purple)
Constantine (accept Constantine VIII or Constantine the Great)
Bulgars (or Bulgarians) &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
This man was called the “uncle” of the civil rights organization Congress of Racial Equality. For 10 points each:
Name this civil rights and gay rights activist who planned the 1941 March on Washington Movement with Asa Philip Randolph. This man was once arrested in Pasadena for public indecency.
This Senator criticized Rustin as a “Communist, draft-dodger, and homosexual” and entered his Pasadena arrest file into record. This Dixiecrat once delivered a 24-hour filibuster in opposition to the Civil Rights Act of 1957.
Thurmond served as a Senator of this state for 49 years. The Civil War began near Charleston in this state with the Battle of Fort Sumter.
Bayard Rustin
Strom Thurmond
South Carolina &lt;Suh, American History&gt;
In a historic July 2019 meeting, a leader of this country signed a “Joint Declaration of Peace and Friendship” with President Isaias Afwerki. For 10 points each:
Name this country. On a later visit to this country, President Isaias proclaimed that “anyone who says Eritreans and [people from this country] are two different peoples is one that doesn't know the truth.”
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed won this accolade in October 2019 for his efforts in brokering a peace deal with Eritrea. Previous winners of this accolade include Nadia Murad and Malala Yousafzai.
This Oromia Media Network founder has accused Ahmed of harboring authoritarian tendencies, even though this controversial activist had previously helped orchestrate the protests that brought Ahmed to power.
Ethiopia
Nobel Peace Prize (prompt on partial answer)
Jawar Mohammed (generously prompt on Mohammed) &lt;R. Li, Current Events&gt;
Alexander Ypsilantis was a leader of the Filiki Eteria, a secret organization that agitated for the independence of Greece from this empire. For 10 points each:
Name this empire, which took most of Greece and conquered Constantinople in 1453.
The key engagement of the Greek War of Independence was this naval battle in which allied forces from Britain, Russia, and France decisively defeated an Ottoman armada.
The first king of newly independent Greece was a Bavarian prince of this name. A Prussian politician with this first name kept power by making melodramatic offers to resign, which persuaded Wilhelm I to retain him.
Ottoman Empire
Battle of Navarino
Otto (accept Otto of Greece; accept Otto von Bismarck) &lt;Suh, European History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about a certain precious metal in pre-Columbian South America.
One of the leaders of this confederation ritually covered himself in gold dust before diving into Lake Guatavita. This confederation, which was led by a Zipa and a Zaque [“ZAH-kay”], held territory in the highlands of modern-day Colombia.
This Incan leader who feuded with his brother Huascar was forced to fill a room with gold, and two other rooms with silver. Despite successfully doing so, he was nonetheless killed by Francisco Pizzaro.
Tales of gold in South America inspired legends of this fictitious “City of Gold.” This fictional place was sought by Europeans like Walter Raleigh and Gonzalo de Quesada.
Muisca Confederation (or Chibcha)
Atahualpa (or Atabalica or Atabalipa; or Francisco Atahualpa)
El Dorado (accept Manoa; do NOT accept or prompt on “Cibola”) &lt;CGH, World History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the history of Christianity in Asia.
Cardinal Jaime [“HYE-may”] Sin [“seen”] was influential in starting the People Power Revolution in this country. A major setting of the revolution was the EDSA, a ring road around Manila.
This Japanese shogunate, named after the victor at the Battle of Sekigahara, crushed the Shimabara Rebellion which was led by peasant Catholics. It also forced suspected kirishitan to step on fumi-e, or images of Jesus or Mary.
Hudson Taylor served as a missionary to this country in the late 19th century, whose largest Protestant denomination is called the “Three-Self Church.”
the Philippines
Tokugawa Shogunate (or Tokugawa Bakufu; or Edo Bakufu)
China &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about people who endured humiliation or worse by having to wear nooses.
Auguste Rodin’s sculpture The Burghers of Calais depicts the title group of nobles wearing nooses to surrender to this English king, who started the Hundred Years’ War by declaring himself to be the heir to the French throne.
After quashing an uprising by this city in 1539, Charles V humiliated the rebellion’s leaders by parading them in undershirts with nooses around their necks. Later, a treaty signed in this city ended the War of 1812.
In a speech given in this city, Demosthenes recounted Zaleucus’s decree that anyone who proposed a new law had to wear a noose around his neck. This city’s Parthenon served as the treasury of the Delian League.
Edward III (prompt on Edward or Edward of Windsor)
Ghent
Athens &lt;Suh, World History&gt;
This country’s independence movement led to the fall of the French Fourth Republic in 1958. For 10 points each:
Name this African country eventually recognized by the Evian Accords in 1962.
The recognition of Algeria was the main reason for Jean Bastien-Thiry’s attempted assassination of this president. This President of France throughout the 1960s led the Free French during World War II.
This group was at the front of the drive for Algerian independence. It eliminated the rival MNA faction in the Café Wars.
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria [accept al-Jazā'ir, Dzayer or Algérie]
Charles de Gaulle
FLN [or Front de Libération Nationale; or National Liberation Front] &lt;MK&gt;
This artist’s brother Pietro painted a series of frescoes depicting the Passion for the lower Church of St. Francis in Assisi. For 10 points each:
Name this painter who decorated Siena’s Palazzo Pubblico with frescoes like Effects of Good Government in the City and Effects of Bad Government in the Country.
The Lorenzetti brothers worked in this century, which is when Giotto decorated the Arena Chapel.
Both Lorenzettis broke away from, but were highly influenced by the gilded icons and other artworks of this Greek-speaking Christian Empire of the Eastern Mediterranean.
Ambrogio Lorenzetti (The work as a whole is called The Allegory of Good and Bad Government.)
14th century [or 1300s; or trecento]
Byzantine Empire [or Eastern Roman Empire; do not accept or prompt on “Roman Empire”] &lt;JR&gt;
This country’s president and vice president were assassinated in the Ten Tragic Days of February 1913. For 10 points each:
Name this country that saw a massive revolution in the early 20th century. It had earlier been led by Antonio López de Santa Anna.
Mexico’s current constitution was adopted in this year near the end of the Revolution. The book Ten Days that Shook the World recounts the fall of Alexander Kerensky in this year, which also saw a revolution in February.
This war of the late 1920s was sparked by an attempt to enforce parts of the 1917 constitution. Thousands of peasants died in this war, after which the Catholic Church lost most of its power in Mexico.
Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
Constitution of 1917
Cristero War [or La Cristiada] &lt;JR&gt;
In France, this tax was called <em>la</em> <em>dîme</em> and became mandatory in 1585. For 10 points each:
Name this tax, which traditionally required one-tenth of a person’s income to be paid to the church.
Another French tax, the gabelle, was a duty on this commodity. In Rome, the port of Ostia was built to produce this commodity.
The gabelle was established by Philip VI, who became the first French king of this dynasty after the extinction of the Capetian line in 1328.
tithe
salt
Valois &lt;SPQR&gt;
The first holder of this office was aptly termed the “Apostle to the English” and was named Augustine. For 10 points each:
Name this office now held by the leading bishop of the Church of England.
This Archbishop of Canterbury wasn’t known for being-particularly religious before his election in 1162. He was murdered after declaring his opposition to the Constitutions of Clarendon.
A number of Norman Archbishops of Canterbury, including Theobald, Lanfranc, and Saint Anselm, had earlier been monks at this Norman abbey.
Archbishop of Canterbury
Thomas à Becket [prompt on Thomas]
Abbey of Our Lady of Bec [or Abbaye Notre-Dame du Bec] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about communications technology in the Pacific front of World War II:
Radio broadcasters of Japanese propaganda, who were mostly women, became known in the U.S. by this nickname, which was roughly equivalent to the European “Axis Sally.”
The U.S. breaking of the main Japanese naval code proved a massive advantage in this 1942 battle, in which all four of Japan’s large aircraft carriers were sunk. This battle was followed by Guadalcanal.
For their part, Japan was never able to break the U.S. code, since much sensitive communication was delivered by “code talkers” from this Native American people of the Southwest.
Tokyo Rose
Battle of Midway
Navajo &lt;JR&gt;
The proceedings of this meeting codified the notion of “spheres of influence.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1884 meeting that confirmed Leopold II of Belgium’s control of the Congo Free State.
The Berlin Conference helped kick off the colonial “Scramble” for this continent. The white supremacist Cecil Rhodes, namesake of the scholarship, made his fortune colonizing what is now Zimbabwe on this continent.
France had earlier taken control of Tunisia, one of the few remaining sovereign states known in Europe by this designation. This term referred both to the North African coast and the corsairs that frequently raided from it.
Berlin Conference [prompt on Congo Conference; accept, but do not otherwise reveal, West Africa Conference; do not accept or prompt on “Congress of Berlin,” which happened in 1878]
Scramble for Africa
Barbary [or Berber Coast] &lt;JR&gt;
In a 1962 war, China fought for control of the Aksai Chin part of this region, which lies beyond the Line of Actual Control. For 10 points each:
Name this northern region of the Indian subcontinent that lies west of the Himalayas. The Indian part of it is administered alongside Jammu.
The Indo-Pakistani wars over Kashmir started in this year, which is also when India and Pakistan gained independence.
The Instrument of Accession that originally added Kashmir to India was signed by this English lord, who was the last Viceroy of India.
Kashmir [or Jammu and Kashmir]
1947
Louis (Francis Albert Victor Nicholas) Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma &lt;JR&gt;
The dissolution of these institutions led to a revolt known as the Pilgrimage of Grace. For 10 points:
Name these religious institutions that could be organized as abbeys or priories. Institutions of this kind for women are now typically known as convents.
This English king had ordered the dissolution of the monasteries. His advisors included Cardinal Woolsey.
Henry VIII’s action had a devastating effect on social relief efforts in England, leading to the passing of this law. A “New” law of this kind was passed in 1834 under the Whigs.
monasteries
Henry VIII
Poor Law [accept Poor Relief Act] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This election is often referred to as a “Revolution” due to the major political realignment that occurred. For 10 points each:
Name this fourth ever U.S. presidential election, in which Thomas Jefferson defeated John Adams.
The aforementioned “Revolution” refers to the peaceful exchange of power between the Federalists and this now-defunct party. This party advocated states’ rights and on behalf of yeoman farmers.
This man, a native of South Carolina, served as John Adams’ running mate. He had earlier led the American contingent during the XYZ affair.
Election of 1800
Democratic–Republican Party [accept Jeffersonian Republicans; prompt on Anti-Administration Party or Republicans; do not accept or prompt on just “Democrats”]
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney [do not accept or prompt on “Thomas Pinckney”] &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
“<em>Deus</em> <em>vult</em>” was the rallying cry at the Council of Clermont, which called for this campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this first of a series of failed campaigns aimed at reclaiming the Holy Land for Christianity.
The pope who called for the First Crusade, Urban II, was born with this given name. This was the name of the son of Henry the Fowler who won the Battle of Lechfeld.
The First Crusade met its end at the Battle of Ascalon, when forces led by Godfrey of Bouillon and Raymond IV of Toulouse were defeated by this Ismaili caliphate, which was once ruled by the “Mad Caliph” Al-Hakim.
First Crusade [prompt on partial answer]
Odo [or Otho or Eudes or Otto]
Fatimid Caliphate [accept Fatimites] &lt;MK&gt;
Isaac Butt founded a “League” to promote this political cause, which was the goal of two bills introduced to the House of Commons by William Gladstone. For 10 points each:
Name this specific form of Irish self-government, which is distinct from independence. Between about 1870 and 1920, it was popular among nationalists and some British Liberals but generally opposed by Unionists.
Support for Home Rule faded after an April 1916 rebellion known as this holiday’s “rising.” The rebellion is usually commemorated on whichever spring Sunday this Christian holiday falls on.
Two years after the Easter Rising, the nationalist party Sinn Féin [shin fayn] declared the formation of this legislative body. A body of the same name is the lower house of the modern-day Oireachtas [eer-ISH-tas], or Irish parliament.
Irish Home Rule [prompt on Irish nationalism]
Easter [accept Easter Rising or Easter Rebellion]
Dáil Éireann [dool yair-in] [or First Dáil] &lt;SE&gt;
The Oklahoma City bombing was carried out exactly two years after the end of a two-month standoff near this city. For 10 points each:
Name this Texas city. The FBI conducted a protracted siege of the Mount Carmel religious compound near this city, which ended with David Koresh and 75 other members of the Branch Davidians perishing in a fire.
The Waco siege was handled by Janet Reno, the Attorney General under this president. Other women in his administration included Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and his wife, a future presidential candidate.
FBI agents at the Waco siege included sniper Lon Horiuchi, who shot Vicki Weaver at this armed standoff the year before. It arose from U.S. Marshals’ attempts to arrest Vicki’s husband, Randy, at their home in northern Idaho.
Waco Siege
Bill Clinton [or William Jefferson Clinton]
Ruby Ridge &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about colonial Canada:
The basis of Canada’s colonial economy was the trade in this good, from which luxury garments could be made. It was often made by killing, or “trapping,” beavers.
This Breton explorer conducted some of the earliest fur trading in what is now Canada. Like Samuel Champlain, this explorer mapped the Gulf of Saint Lawrence and claimed Canada for France.
The French and Indian War was preceded by this war of the 1740s that included the Duc d’Anville’s expedition. In this war, Americans took Louisbourg; it was ended along with its parent conflict by the Treaty of Aix-La-Chapelle [“X” la shah-PELL].
furs [accept pelts]
Jacques Cartier
King George’s War [prompt on War of the Austrian Succession] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This man resigned his first term as foreign secretary in protest of Neville Chamberlain’s appeasement policy. For 10 points each:
Name this Prime Minister who was Churchill’s foreign secretary for most of World War II.
Anthony Eden was forced to resign as Prime Minister after a “crisis” involving control over this canal that connects the Mediterranean to the Red Sea.
Eden was a member of this political party of Harold MacMillan and Benjamin Disraeli.
Sir Anthony Eden
Suez Canal
Conservative Party [accept Tories] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This company was profiled in a 1904 <em>History</em> by Ida Tarbell. For 10 points each:
Name this company founded by John D. Rockefeller. After being ruled an illegal monopoly under the Sherman Antitrust Act, it broke up into what are now ExxonMobil, Chevron, and other companies.
Tarbell’s history was a leading example of this kind of journalism of the Progressive Era. Its practitioners included Lincoln Steffens and Jacob Riis [reess].
This man formed part of the Supreme Court majority that broke up Standard Oil. This man later succeeded William Howard Taft as Chief Justice.
Standard Oil Company Incorporated
muckraking [accept word forms like muckrakers]
Charles Evans Hughes &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the War of the Spanish Succession:
The war was provoked by this French king’s attempt to seat his son on the Spanish throne. This “Sun King” ruled France for a whopping 72 years starting in 1643.
Louis XIV’s Marshal Villars was wounded at this 1709 battle, a Pyrrhic victory for the Grand Alliance. This battle has been dubbed “The Bloodiest Battle of the Eighteenth Century.”
This general fought alongside the Duke of Marlborough at Malplaquet and also led troops at the Battle of Blenheim. This prince of Savoy led the armies of the Holy Roman Empire to victory against the Ottomans at Zenta.
Louis XIV [or Louis quatorze; prompt on partial answers]
Battle of Malplaquet
Prince Eugene of Savoy &lt;SPQR&gt;
This is the only country in Central America with English as its official language. For 10 points each:
Name that country, which was formerly known as British Honduras. In 1970, it moved its capital from a namesake city to Belmopan.
Most of the population of Belize identifies with this term. This word refers to people with both European and Amerindian ancestry.
Belize is home to a relatively large number of colonies of these people, who speak a dialect of German called Plautdietsch. Along with a related group, these people are a major non-Lutheran group of the Pennsylvania Dutch.
Belize
mestizos
Mennonites [prompt on Anabaptists; do not accept or prompt on “Amish”] &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
Settlers from this country besieged Mafeking and won the first of three battles at Ladysmith. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of the settlers whose language turned into Afrikaans.
Those settles, known as Boers, fought two wars with the British in what became this country.
This colony, led by Cecil Rhodes, aided the British in the Boer War. This colony, which became part of the Union of South Africa, conducted the Jameson Raid against the Transvaal when Rhodes was its Prime Minister.
Kingdom of the Netherlands [or Nederland; accept Dutch; prompt on Boers]
Republic of South Africa [or Republiek van Suid-Afrika; or iRiphabhuliki yaseNingizimu Afrika; or iRiphabliki yomZantsi Afrika]
Cape Colony &lt;SPQR&gt;
Didius Julianus became Roman Emperor for two months after an auction held by this group. For 10 points each:
Name this group whose leaders included Burrus, Aper, and Sejanus.
This emperor, who supposedly banned mention of goats because he resembled one, was assassinated by the Praetorian guardsman Cassius Chaerea. This son of Germanicus reigned for only four years, starting in 37 A.D.
Caligula supposedly attempted to make Incitatus, who was this kind of animal, a consul. Parthian archers defeated Romans by shooting arrows while riding sitting backward on these animals.
Praetorian Guard
Caligula [accept Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
horses &lt;SPQR&gt;
This woman was purchased along with Otter Woman as the “wife” of Toussaint Charbonneau. For 10 points each:
Name this Shoshone woman who served as guide and interpreter on the Lewis and Clark expedition.
Nicholas Biddle popularized the spelling “Sacajawea” in his edition of Lewis and Clark's journals. Biddle directed this federal financial institution, which was dismantled by Andrew Jackson.
Archaeologists have traced parts of Lewis and Clark’s path using the concentration of this heavy substance in the ground. This substance was taken in the form of calomel to treat syphilis.
Sakakawea [or Sacagawea; accept Sacajawea]
Second Bank of the United States [prompt on just Bank of the United States or National Bank]
mercury [or Hg] &lt;JR&gt;
This civilization produced a basalt statuette dubbed <em>The</em> <em>Wrestler</em> sometime between 1500 and 400 BC. For 10 points each:
Name this oldest of the major Mesoamerican civilizations, known for producing massive stone sculptures known as “colossal heads.”
The Olmecs are also known for making face masks out of this green rock, which was often used to carve miniature dragons, rings, belt ornaments, and other objects in China.
The Olmecs were also known for making this kind of sculpture, used for the majority of Assyrian sculpture. This kind of sculpture is made using relatively shallow cuts into a flat surface.
Olmecs
jade [or yu]
bas-relief [or low relief; prompt on partial answer] &lt;JR&gt;
This country’s empire retook more direct power in the Meiji Restoration. For 10 points each:
Name this country once ruled by the Tokugawa Shogunate.
After the Meiji Restoration, Japan adopted this kind of parliament in imitation of the Holy Roman Empire’s general assembly. One of these assemblies was convened in the aftermath of Martin Luther’s 95 Theses.
The Diet gained significant power under this emperor, who took power after the death of the Meiji emperor.
Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]
National Diet [or Kokkai; accept Diet of Worms; prompt on Landstag or Reichstag]
Taisho [or Yoshihito] &lt;JR&gt; Tiebreaker
Theodor Herzl is considered one of the founders of this movement in its modern form. For 10 points each:
Name this movement that called for a Jewish state to be re-established in the historical region of Israel.
This term, which refers to a Jew born in Israel, has been variously used as a term of abuse by anti-Semites and as a marker of pride by the Zionist movement.
This term refers to immigration to Israel by Jews scattered in the diaspora. This term also refers to the act of being called up to read a section of a Torah portion.
Zionism
sabra [or tzabar]
aliyah [accept aliyot] &lt;JW&gt;
This city is home to the tallest capitol building in the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this Louisiana city from which John Bel Edwards currently governs.
Inside the Louisiana State Capitol, one can find a hole in the wall formed by one of the bullets that Carl Weiss used to assassinate this man, who declared “Every Man a King” while advocating his “Share Our Wealth” program.
Baton Rouge is the largest city in the National Heritage Area named for this river, which gets its name from the Choctaw for “long river.” This river cuts a straight line a bend in the Mississippi to the Gulf of Mexico.
Baton Rouge
Huey (Pierce) Long, Jr.
Atchafalaya River &lt;MK&gt;
Dunkirk was sold to France in this decade by Charles II. For 10 points each:
Name this decade, which also saw the Great Plague.
The most important source for the 1660s is the diary of this man, the Chief Secretary to the Admiralty under James II. His diary, written mostly in shorthand, also contains coded accounts of his more illicit affairs.
1666 was proclaimed an annus mirabilis in part due to the achievements of this man, who supposedly observed an apple falling from the tree and formulated the law of universal gravitation.
1660s
Samuel Pepys [“peeps”]
Sir Isaac Newton &lt;SPQR&gt;
This region was the homeland of many Pre-Socratic philosophers, including Heraclitus, Thales, Anaximander and Anaximenes. For 10 points each:
Name this region that lay between Aeolis and Doris along the West coast of modern Turkey. Its namesake Revolt prompted the Persian invasion of Greece.
This tyrant of Miletus led the Ionian revolt after failing to take Naxos with the Persian satrap Artaphernes. Gorgo, the young daughter of king Cleomenes, convinced her father not to listen to this man.
Cleomenes was king of this highly militaristic Greek city-state, which flourished on the backs of slave labor carried out by helots.
Ionia [accept Ionian Revolt]
Aristagoras of Miletus
Sparta [or Lacedaemon] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This two-word phrase was coined in a 1976 article by Linda Kerber. For 10 points each:
Name this patriotic ideal of the Revolutionary era, according to which the role of women is to instill the namesake patriotic values in their children.
This Revolutionary-era woman espoused many of the views on women’s education associated with republican motherhood in her many letters to her husband, who became the second President.
Catharine Sedgwick, a proponent of republican motherhood, is best-known for the novel Hope Leslie, which is set during a war with these people. These people fought the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the late 1630s.
republican motherhood
Abigail Adams [accept Abigail Smith]
Pequot [accept Pequot War] &lt;JR&gt;
Cries to amend this group’s namesake registry led to the Khmelnytsky uprising. For 10 points each:
Name this group of people, which primarily lived on the lower Dnieper and Don rivers. They were led by a “hetman” and were noted for their skill with horses.
The primary opponent of the Khmelnytsky uprising was a Polish king with this name. Another king with this name was known as the “Lion of Lechistan” for leading the largest recorded cavalry charge of all time.
That Siege of Vienna and the Khmelnytsky uprising both took place during this century, when central Europe was devastated by the Thirty Years’ War.
cossacks
Jan [or John; accept Jan or John II Casimir or III Sobieski]
17th century [or 1600s] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This country experienced an economic “miracle” under chancellor Konrad Adenauer. For 10 points each:
Name this former country governed from Bonn. It controlled only half of its nominal capital, which was in the middle of a communist neighbor.
Konrad Adenauer was a founder of this German political party opposed by the Social Democrats. This party currently has a plurality in the German Bundestag.
The economic miracle was fueled by migrant workers given this German designation. The program that brought these people is the reason Germany now has such a large Turkish population.
West Germany [prompt on just Germany or Deutschland; or Federal Republic of Germany; or FRG; or BRD; or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; do not accept or prompt on “East Germany” or “German Democratic Republic” “Deutsche Demokratische Republik” or “GDR” or “DDR”]
Christian Democratic Union [or CDU; or Christlich Demokratische Union; accept CSU/CDU; accept Christian Social Union in Bavaria or Christlich-Soziale Union in Bayern]
Gastarbeiter &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the role of shoes in international politics:
In 2008, journalist Muntadhar al-Zaidi threw both of his shoes at this then-U.S. president. Al-Zaidi was voicing displeasure with this president’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003.
This man, who was Iraq’s prime minister until 2014, tried to catch those shoes.
This politician attempted to cut the funding of universities that opposed him with the slogan, “Shoes? Yes! Books? No!” His third wife, Isabel, succeeded him after his third term as President of Argentina.
George W. Bush [or Bush 43; or Bush the Younger do not accept or prompt on “George H.W. Bush”]
Nouri (Kamil Mohammed Hasan) al-Maliki
Juan (Domingo) Perón &lt;AF&gt;
This king approved the missions of Francisco Pizarro and Hernán Cortés, appointing the latter governor of New Spain. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Spain who retired to a monastery in the 1550s. He passed rule of Spain and the Netherlands to his son, and his other territories to his brother Ferdinand I.
Charles V was king of Spain because his father Philip had married Joanna “the Mad,” the daughter of these two Catholic Monarchs of Spain. This king and queen kicked the Jews out of Spain in 1492.
Just like the Hapsburgs, the Catholic Monarchs were badly inbred, since both were members of this royal house, which followed from the House of Ivrea.
Holy Roman Emperor Charles V [or Karl V; or Carolus V; or Charles I of Spain or Carlos I; prompt on just Charles, Karl, Carolus, or Carlos]
Ferdinand II of Aragon [or Ferrando II or Fernando II] AND Isabella I of Castile
House of Trastámara &lt;JR&gt;
A history of these people was written by Paul the Deacon. For 10 points each:
Name this early Medieval Germanic people, whose kings included Alboin and Liutprand. They founded the Duchies of Spoleto and Benevento.
Lombard had conquered northern Italy from the “eastern” or “Ostro-” branch of these Germanic people, whose western or “Visi-” branch ruled Spain until the Muslim conquest.
This “Great” king founded the Ostrogothic kingdom of Italy. He supposedly killed Odoacer, the man who overthrew the last Western Roman Emperor, with his bare hands.
Lombards [accept Langobards]
Goths [accept Visigoths or Ostrogoths]
Theodoric the Great &lt;JR&gt; Tiebreaker
Knife-shaped money called <em>daobi</em> was widely circulated under this dynasty. For 10 points each:
Name this longest-lasting Chinese dynasty, which lost most of its power during the Warring States period. It followed the Shang.
This name is given to the era preceding the Warring States period, during which royal authority began to decline. It takes its poetic name from a set of Annals traditionally attributed to Confucius.
The veracity of the Spring and Autumn Annals was denied by this radical reformer of 11th century China, who feuded with the great historian Sima Guang.
Zhou dynasty
Spring and Autumn Period [or Chunqiu Shidai]
Wang Anshi [prompt on just Wang] &lt;JW&gt;
These people were largely wiped out during the Roman invasion of Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this class of people, whom Tacitus describes dancing on the island of Mona in his Annals. These people were the soothsayers in the ancient Celtic religion.
In 1640, John Aubrey declared this monument in Britain the work of druids. This monument is comprised of a number of standing blocks in the area of Salisbury.
Another important archaeological site in Britain is this 6th-century find rich in jewels and other luxury goods. It’s the likely burial place of King Raedwald.
druids
Stonehenge
Sutton Hoo &lt;SPQR&gt; Tiebreaker
One section of this work, the <em>Digest</em>, includes massive excerpts from Gaius and Ulpian. For 10 points each:
Name this text that also includes the Pandects. It’s the largest surviving single body of Latin text.
Justinian funded several wars in attempts to recover the lost Western half of the empire. He undertook his first against this tribe, who ruled Africa in the Roman tradition from 435 onward.
Justinian ruled from this capital of the Eastern Roman, or Byzantine Empire, which was built by a namesake Emperor. Its architecture was described in Procopius’s Buildings.
Justinian’s Code [or the Corpus Juris Civilis; or the Corpus Iuris Civilis; or the Body of Civil Law; accept Codex Justinianus, which is a specific part but very commonly used to refer to the whole thing]
Vandals
Constantinople &lt;SPQR&gt;
In the Great Plains, aggressive plowing and extended drought produced a series of dust storms that worsened the effects of this period. For 10 points each:
Name this worldwide period of severe economic hardship, which was combated in the U.S. by Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal.
This New Deal agency, created in 1933, tried to curtail surpluses and raise commodity prices by paying farmers a subsidy not to plant crops like corn and wheat.
The advisors who devised the AAA included this newspaper editor from Iowa. He became Roosevelt’s first Secretary of Agriculture, then went on to succeed John Nance Garner as Vice President in 1941.
Great Depression
Agricultural Adjustment Administration [or AAA; accept Agricultural Adjustment Act]
Henry Wallace [or Henry Agard Wallace; prompt on just Wallace] &lt;SE&gt;
An agreement between these two countries was followed within a few decades by the Treaty of Zaragoza. For 10 points each:
Name these two Iberian countries who divvied up the New World in the Treaty of Tordesillas.
This pope, whose son Cesare inspired Machiavelli’s The Prince, authored the Treaty of Tordesillas. This pope also promulgated the bull Inter Caetera in 1493.
Alexander VI also excommunicated this political rival of his. This Dominican friar inspired a cult of followers called the “Piagnoni,” [pyah-NYOH-nee] or “Wailers.”
Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España] AND Kingdom of Portugal [or Reino de Portugal]
Alexander VI [or Rodrigo Borgia; or Rodrigo de Borja y Doms; prompt on partial answers]
Girolamo Savonarola &lt;SPQR&gt;
During the so-called “Iranian Intermezzo,” this state lost real power in Persia to the Turkic Buyids, Samanids, and Saffarids. For 10 points each:
Name this state that was finally destroyed with the 1258 sack of Baghdad.
Baghdad was sacked by the empire of these people, which was by then ruled by Genghis Khan’s grandson, Möngke.
The rise of the Turkic powers began when caliph Al-Mu’tasim moved the Abbasid capital from Baghdad to this other city in modern Iraq, which he built. This city’s mosque has a spiral minaret.
Abbasid Caliphate
Mongols
Samarra &lt;JR&gt;
St. Mark’s Basilica was once this elected ruler’s private chapel. For 10 points each:
Name this elected Italian ruler who was addressed by the style “Your Serenity.” The holder of this title annually rode the bucentaur to drop a ring into the ocean in a symbolic “Marriage of the Sea.”
The Doges ruled over this Italian city, which was built on wooden foundations in a lagoon of the Adriatic.
To counter Venice’s huge power, almost all of Europe joined Pope Julius II’s “League” named for this French city. The Peace that ended the Italian Wars was signed in a town called Le Cateau named for being near this city.
Doge [DOH-jay] [prompt on Duke]
Most Serene Republic of Venice
Cambrai [accept League of Cambrai; accept Peace of Cateau-Cambrésis] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This country’s war of independence was the work of “Black Jacobins” according to historian C.L.R. James. For 10 points each:
Name this Caribbean island nation that gained independence under Toussaint Louverture, in the only Western slave revolt to successfully establish a new country.
A number of the leaders in the Haitian Revolution were half-blacks described by this term. In Spanish colonies, these people were contrasted with zambos, criollos, and mestizos.
The slaves and free blacks of colonial Haiti had been “governed” under the French Code Noir, which was first drafted by this finance minister of the later 17th century.
Republic of Haiti [or République de Haïti]
mulattoes
Jean-Baptiste Colbert &lt;JR&gt;
The last holder of this title was executed after the October Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this title that Peter the Great supplemented with the term “Emperor.” It derives from a Russianization of the Latin “Caesar.”
This organization was founded directly after the October Revolution. This body largely took over the power of the Central Committee, and was responsible for creating policy, unlike the Secretariat.
After the Revolution, Russia was quick to pull out of World War I, signing this peace treaty with the Central Powers to guarantee their exit.
Tsars [or Czars]
Politburo
Treaty of Brest–Litovsk &lt;JW&gt;
In this event, the <em>Maddox</em> and <em>Turner</em> <em>Joy</em> were attacked by enemy torpedo boats. For 10 points each:
Name this 1964 “incident” that prompted the U.S. to ramp up its involvement in the Vietnam War.
This American president swiftly passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in response to that incident. This Texan Democrat succeeded JFK after his assassination.
This Secretary of Defense spearheaded the escalation of the Vietnam War. He refocused the World Bank on reducing poverty in developing countries during his time as its president.
Gulf of Tonkin incident
Lyndon Baines Johnson [prompt on just Johnson; accept LBJ]
Robert (Strange) McNamara &lt;MK&gt;
The destroyed rail lines left behind by this campaign were known as “neckties.” For 10 points each:
Name this scorched-earth campaign of late 1864, which tore up the countryside between Atlanta and its namesake goal, the port of Savannah. It was led by William Tecumseh Sherman.
Sherman had earlier taken Atlanta from Joseph E. Johnston, who had earlier turned the tide at this 1861 battle. Irvin McDowell lost this battle in northern Virginia to P.G.T. Beauregard.
Sherman’s army had been named for this river. That army named for this river had earlier fought under Ulysses S. Grant at Shiloh and Vicksburg, and shouldn’t be confused with a Confederate army named for a state.
Sherman’s March to the Sea
First Battle of Bull Run [accept First Battle of Manassas]
Tennessee River [accept     Army of the Tennessee     ; do not accept or prompt on “Army of Tennessee”] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This war included two invasions of a neighboring country’s Shaba province. For 10 points each:
Name this lengthy war in which the communist MPLA defeated its rival UNITA.
The Angolan Civil War has often been dubbed this man’s “Vietnam,” since this leader was the main supporter of the MPLA, alongside the Soviet Union. This man took power after giving the “History Will Absolve Me” speech.
Castro was president of this Caribbean country, whose revolution was partly led by Che Guevara.
Angolan Civil War [accept reasonable descriptions]
Fidel (Alejandro) Castro (Ruz)
Republic of Cuba [or República de Cuba] &lt;JR&gt;
Former French Prime Minister Robert Schuman gave a 1950 speech calling for a single authority to control French and German production of these two goods. For 10 points each:
Name these two industrial goods whose production was regulated under a “European Community” that was the first step in postwar European integration.
The European Coal and Steel Community is considered a forerunner of this present-day organization, whose benefits include a common market and single currency.
The first president of the ECSC was this man, who then spearheaded the creation of what’s now the European Community. Unlike Robert Schuman, this man never held elected office.
coal AND steel [accept European Coal and Steel Community]
European Union [or E.U.]
Jean (Omer Marie Gabriel) Monnet &lt;JR&gt;
This force supposedly cried “Thalatta! Thalatta!” meaning “The sea! The sea!” upon reaching the Black Sea. For 10 points each:
Name this group of mercenaries, whose improbable return from the heart of Persia was celebrated in the Anabasis.
The Ten Thousand were hired by a man with this name. An earlier man with this name conquered Lydia and Media and was succeeded by Cambyses II.
There were also ten thousand troops in the Persian unit called the Immortals, which played a major role at this battle. Leonidas I led 300 Spartans in a last stand at this battle.
The Ten Thousand
Cyrus [accept Cyrus the Younger or Cyrus the Great]
Battle of Thermopylae &lt;SPQR&gt; Tiebreaker
This term, which designates much of the Levant, was coined in the early 1900s by archaeologist James Henry Breasted. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word English name for the “cradle of civilization” that spanned the lower Nile and Mesopotamia.
The eastern “wing” of the Fertile Crescent is this part of Mesopotamia south of Assyria. It’s the namesake of two major Mesopotamian Empires, one of which was home to some Hanging Gardens in its capital.
The Babylonian Code of Hammurabi is preserved on one of these stone slabs. The Axumites of modern Ethiopia erected a number of these pillar-like objects.
Fertile Crescent
Babylon [or Babylonian Empire; accept Hanging Gardens of Babylon]
steles &lt;SPQR&gt;
This country underwent a “White Revolution” from 1963 to 1978. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which suffered crippling inflation following the 1973 oil crisis when its economy was flooded with foreign currency. Its Islamist 1979 Revolution began with demonstrations against the Shah.
This man became Supreme Leader of Iran after that 1979 Revolution.
Soon after the Revolution, Iran fought a war with Iraq over this oil-rich western province, which is the closest to Kuwait.
Islamic Republic of Iran [accept Persia]
Ayatollah Khomeini [or Sayyid Ruhollah Mūsavi Khomeini; prompt on Ayatollah]
Khuzestan &lt;SPQR&gt;
This process started after the “surprise” result of a 2016 referendum called by David Cameron. For 10 points each:
Name this process that’s currently being negotiated by Theresa May.
In January 2017, this man said he’d “happily” negotiate a British return to the E.U. This current president of the European Commission was Prime Minister of Luxembourg for 20 years until 2013.
After calling a snap election in 2017, Theresa May’s Conservatives were forced to form a coalition government with this region’s far-right Democratic Unionist Party.
Brexit [accept any answer involving the U.K. leaving the European Union]
Jean-Claude Juncker [YOON-kuh]
Northern Ireland [do not accept or prompt on partial answer] &lt;JR&gt;
This country’s native son Bartolomeu Dias was the first European to sail around the southern tip of Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this Iberian kingdom home to Pedro de Cabral, who “discovered” Brazil.
This son of John I helped kick off Portugal’s Age of Discovery, himself exploring Madeira and the Azores.
One of Henry’s first achievements was capturing this port. Along with Melilla, it is one of two Moroccan cities currently controlled by Spain.
Kingdom of Portugal [or Reino de Portugal]
Prince Henry the Navigator [accept Henry, Duke of Viseu; prompt on partial answer]
Ceuta &lt;MK&gt;
In the lead-up to this conflict, William Randolph Hearst allegedly quipped “you furnish the pictures and I’ll furnish the war.” For 10 points each:
Name this war prompted by the explosion of the USS Maine, in which the U.S. defeated a fading colonial power and acquired Cuba, the Philippines, and other territories.
A joint resolution passed by Congress in 1898 contained this pledge not to annex Cuba after the war’s end. It was walked back slightly by a similar document three years later.
Following the war, the U.S. also acquired this territory, which was granted limited self-governance by the Foraker Act. Separatists from this place tried to assassinate Harry Truman in 1950.
Spanish–American War
Teller Amendment (The similar document is the Platt Amendment.)
Puerto Rico &lt;SE&gt;
This empire was one of the first to convert most of its subjects to Shia Islam. For 10 points each:
Name this empire ruled by Abbas the Great and Ismail I. It fought the Ottomans at the Battle of Chaldiran.
The Safavids, Ottomans, and Mughals were empires nicknamed for their use of this military technology. Roger Bacon developed this chemical that’s made from charcoal, sulfur, and saltpeter, and which is used to power firearms.
The most famous portrait of Shah Ismail I was made by an artist from this city. The Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II had his portrait painted by another artist from this city.
Safavid dynasty
gunpowder
Most Serene Republic of Venice [or la Serenissima Repubblica di Venezia] (The first artist is unknown; the second is Gentile Bellini.) &lt;JR&gt;
J. Edgar Hoover dubbed this movement “the greatest threat to the internal security” of the U.S. For 10 points each:
Name this revolutionary socialist group active throughout the 1970s in assessing and combating police brutality. Its members included founders Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale, as well as Angela Davis.
The Black Panthers were among the many radical organizations targeted by this U.S. intelligence service’s program COINTELPRO. J. Edgar Hoover directed this agency for many years.
Perhaps the best-known martyr of the Black Panthers was this chair of the Illinois chapter. The Weather Underground declared war on the government after this man was killed in 1969 by FBI agents in his own apartment.
Black Panther Party [accept BPP]
FBI [or Federal Bureau of Investigation]
Fred Hampton &lt;MK&gt;
Herodotus claims that Queen Artemisia of Halicarnassus tried to persuade Xerxes to fight this battle at a more favorable location. For 10 points each:
Name this naval battle of 480 B.C., in which the Greeks lured the Persian forces through a narrow strait and destroyed nearly three hundred ships. It followed on the battles of Thermopylae and Artemisium.
The victory at Salamis was largely owed to Themistocles, who was later ostracized from this Attic city, where Thucydides was from. This city’s democracy was founded by people like Solon and Pericles.
The Athenians voted for ostracism using this kind of material.
Battle of Salamis
Athens
pottery [accept ceramics; accept shards or pieces of pottery] &lt;SPQR&gt;
An effigy of Andrew Oliver was hung on the “Liberty Tree” to protest this law. For 10 points each:
Name this 1765 parliamentary act that taxed printed materials in the American colonies by requiring them to have the namesake official imprint.
The Loyal Nine, a group formed to protest the Stamp Act, inspired this man to found the Sons of Liberty. He helped organise the Boston Tea Party.
Samuel Adams was a good friend of this other patriot, who coined the famous slogan “Taxation without representation is tyranny.” His sister Mercy wrote the first major history of the American Revolution.
Stamp Act
Samuel Adams [prompt on just Adams]
James Otis Jr. &lt;MK&gt;
In January 2017, a federal court declared North Carolina’s congressional map a “partisan” example of this practice and had it struck down. For 10 points each:
Name this practice in which district lines are redrawn to benefit one party over the other. California recently revised their redistricting procedure to prevent examples of this process.
Another current gerrymandering case, Gill v. Whitford, originates from this state. In 2013, this state elected the first openly gay senator in US history.
One element of Gill lacking in previous gerrymandering cases is the use of this metric, which quantifies the number of “wasted votes” for each party. This metric was developed by Stephanopoulos and McGhee at UChicago.
partisan gerrymandering [accept word forms]
Wisconsin
efficiency gap [do not accept or prompt on partial answers] &lt;AF&gt;
Wilhelm Keitel served as the first and only military governor of this region. For 10 points each:
Name this majority German-speaking territory that was handed over in the Munich Pact, a cession that Neville Chamberlain claimed had brought “peace for our time.”
The occupation of the Sudetenland followed immediately after Germany’s union with this southern neighbor in a process called the Anschluss. This German-speaking country had earlier formed a dual monarchy with Hungary.
This chancellor of Austria suppressed the Nazi party during his time in office, moving towards fascism with the First of May Constitution. He was assassinated by the Nazis and succeeded by Kurt Schuschnigg.
Sudetenland [prompt on Czechoslovakia]
Austria [or Österreich; accept Austria-Hungary]
Engelbert Dollfuss &lt;SPQR&gt;
The literal location referred to by this phrase was located on either the fourth or the ninth floor of Chicago’s Blackstone Hotel. For 10 points each:
Give this metaphorical term for un-democratic, corrupt political dealings. It was first used to describe the selection of the Republican candidate in the 1920 presidential election.
The “smoke-filled room” nominated this senator from Ohio to succeed Woodrow Wilson. His administration took bribes in the Teapot Dome scandal, and after his death he was succeeded by Calvin Coolidge.
Harding’s Cabinet included Interior Secretary Albert Fall and Harry M. Daugherty, who held this position. This position was previously held by A. Mitchell Palmer, who conducted a series of namesake “Raids” to arrest leftists.
smoke-filled room [prompt on partial answer]
Warren G. Harding [or Warren Gamaliel Harding]
Attorney General &lt;SE&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the legislative achievements of Robert Peel:
Peel laid the foundations of the modern British Conservative Party in this document, which warns against legislation that promotes change as creating “a perpetual vortex of agitation.”
Peel had these tariffs, which raised food prices, repealed. These laws made it ruinously expensive to import grain, even in times of shortage.
Peel had the Corn Laws repealed to alleviate this disaster, in which a blight struck the staple crop of Ireland, causing widespread starvation.
Tamworth Manifesto
Corn Laws
Irish Potato Famine [or Great Famine or Great Hunger; prompt on partial answer] &lt;AF&gt;
Saint Frumentius introduced Christianity to this kingdom, baptising its king Ezana. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom whose rulers supposedly included the Queen of Sheba. Much of its history is recorded in the language Ge’ez.
Aksum was mostly located in this modern day country, whose capital is Addis Ababa.
Ethiopian Orthodox Christians claim that Menelik I brought this object to Ethiopia, where it has stayed. It was kept in the inner sanctum of Solomon’s Temple and was made to house the two tablets of the Ten Commandments.
Kingdom of Aksum [accept Aksumite Empire or Mangista Aksum]
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
the Ark of the Covenant [or the Ark of the Testimony; prompt on partial answer] &lt;MK&gt;
Sir Humphrey Gilbert, who drowned in Newfoundland, originally sponsored the foundation of this colony. For 10 points each:
Name this colony whose second iteration was led by John White. This colony’s settlers may have integrated into the Croatoan tribe.
This half-brother of Sir Humphrey Gilbert gained the charter and financed the Roanoke Colony. He’s the namesake of the capital of North Carolina.
Sir Walter Raleigh may have founded the Roanoke colony as a base for this activity, which is how Sir Francis Drake was best known to Spain.
Roanoke Colony [prompt on “The Lost Colony”]
Sir Walter Raleigh
piracy [accept privateering] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about wars of the Roman Republic:
The Roman armies were slaughtered at Lautulae and Caudine Forks during this series of three wars in the fourth-century B.C. These wars prompted construction of the Appian Way to secure Campania.
This king of Epirus was contracted by Tarentum to fight the Romans in the south of Italy. He became notorious for winning battles at enormously high cost, which negated the impact of the victories.
In this century-long sequence of wars Rome fought Carthage for the control of the Mediterranean.
Samnite Wars
Pyrrhus of Epirus [accept Pyrrhic victory or Pyrrhic war]
Punic Wars &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Ecuador, the only nation with a consulate in New Haven:
Ecuador’s current president is this democratic socialist, the only paraplegic world leader. He was elected to succeed Rafael Correa in 2017.
Moreno was appointed as Special Envoy to the U.N. on Disability and Accessibility by this Secretary-General, who succeeded Kofi Annan.
Moreno governs from this capital of Ecuador.
Lenin (Boltaire) Moreno (Garcés)
Ban Ki-moon
Quito &lt;IKD&gt;
This man defeated Joseph Bonaparte’s troops at the Battle of Vitoria. For 10 points each:
Name this English Duke who commanded the winning forces at Waterloo.
Wellington had earlier led the allied forces during this phase of the Napoleonic Wars, which, like the disastrous Russian campaign, started from an attempt to enforce the Continental System, this time on Portugal.
This marshal led the French cavalry at several battles of the Peninsular War. At Waterloo, Napoleon’s forces were led by himself, Marshal Grouchy, and this other marshal, who was infamously executed after the battle.
Duke of Wellington [or Arthur Wellesley]
Peninsular War
Michel Ney &lt;JR&gt;
Alcohol has played a role in history for thousands of years. For 10 points each:
Among the first evidence of wine production was uncovered at Hajji Firuz Tepe in this country. That wine evolved into Ramian wine, which became a delicacy in the Parthian Empire of this modern day country.
In 1516, Wilhelm IV [“the fourth”] implemented Reinheitsgebot [rine-HEIGHTS-guh-BOT], a law in this country requiring that all beers may only have four ingredients. This country still maintains purity laws to this day in spite of legal disputes known as the Brandenburg Wars in the 1990s.
This French Benedictine monk is often miscredited for the invention of champagne in the 17th century. Regardless, he names a high-sought after brand of champagne sold by Moët &amp; Chandon.
Iran
Germany
Dom Perignon &lt;Halza&gt;
Answer the following about slave rebellions in the Western Hemisphere, for 10 points each:
History’s most successful slave rebellion was led by this man, who died before Haiti achieved independence in 1804. Having assembled a constitutional assembly in 1801, this man was dubbed Governor-General for Life.
A slave rebellion named after this holiday on the island of Jamaica was led by preacher Samuel Sharpe and mobilized up to 60,000 slaves in 1831. Also known as the Baptist War, this holiday also names an Australian island south of the island of Java.
The Malê Revolt of 1835 in this country was incited by Muslim Yoruba slaves in the city of Salvador. After the revolt, Muslim slaves were forced to convert to Catholicism up until this country’s abolition of slavery in 1888.
Toussaint L’Ouverture [or Toussaint Breda]
Christmas
Brazil &lt;Halza&gt;
Answer the following about the Prime Meridian, for 10 points each:
The long time standard for the Prime Meridian has been located in this British town. Despite naming a time zone notated “zero” in Coordinated Universal Time, the meridian in this town is actually 123 meters east of the Prime Meridian’s most recent calculation.
Besides London, this West African city is the closest capital city to the Prime Meridian. Having served as the capital of the British Gold Coast until 1957, this city is the capital of Ghana.
The Prime Meridian also passes through this Antarctic region. Claimed by Norway, this region is named for the wife of King Haakon VII [“the seventh”], who reigned from 1905 to 1957, and who was also the daughter of King Edward VII [“the seventh”] of Great Britain.
Greenwich
Accra
Queen Maud Land [accept Maud Charlotte Mary Victoria] &lt;Halza&gt;
This four-word phrase was the title of a declaration that Germany’s aggression would end. For 10 points each:
Give this four word phrase that titles a speech concerning the Munich Agreement. Do not get it confused with a similar phrase used in the Book of Common Prayer and The Avengers: Age of Ultron.
“Peace for our time” was the phrase used by this British Prime Minister famous for his policy of appeasement. He led Britain through the first eight months of World War II.
The beginning of World War II was given this name by journalists. It was named because of a lack of large-scale military battles and seems like a name that would be given by Holden Caulfield.
“Peace for our Time” [do not accept “Peace in our time”]
Neville Chamberlain
Phoney War [or Drôle de guerre or Sitzkrieg] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
You’re enjoying a pleasant car ride when all of a sudden your uncle starts telling you about the U.S. Interstate system. For 10 points each:
This legislation proposed a toll-free interstate system. Unfortunately, there was no suggested means of funding, and nothing happened for 12 years.
One justification for pursuing this expensive project was that the interstate system would serve as an escape route if this event were to occur. Description acceptable.
The interstate system was championed by this U.S. President. This five-star general served as the supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe during World War II.
Federal Highway Act of 1944
nuclear strikes [or nuclear war or atomic bomb or similar]
Dwight Eisenhower &lt;Yoshida&gt;
When this eldest son of Edward III’s [“the third’s”] dysentery became more severe, he began performing all kinds of charitable acts. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was nicknamed because of the color of his armor.
At this 1349 naval battle, Edward’s ship was grappled by a Spanish ship and almost sank. He was rescued by Henry of Grosmont.
Edward and his brother John helped Pedro the Cruel win this decisive battle in the Castilian Civil War.
Edward the Black Prince [accept Edward of Woodstock]
Battle of Winchelsea
Battle of Najera &lt;Yoshida&gt;
Cicero is one of the most famous examples of these people. For 10 points each:
Give the Latin term for a person who comes from a family without prior consulship, which translates as, “new man.”
This man grew tired of populist antics, and tried to prevent the rise of the novus homo by formalizing the rules for the Cursus Honorum.
One way to gain favor with the people was to throw huge parties when serving as this magistrate. There were both Curule and Plebeian varieties of this position, which comes from the Latin for “temple edifice.”
Novus Homo
Sulla
Aedile &lt;Yoshida&gt;
Answer the following about critical events concerning the LGBT community in America, for 10 points each:
This gay bar in Greenwich Village was the home of a namesake June 1969 riot in response to a late-night police raid. Regarded as the start of the gay liberation movement, many pride parades occur on the anniversary of the riots here.
The “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” military policy was instituted by this president. The Employment Non-Discrimination Act was first introduced with this president’s support, however, it failed to pass the Senate by one vote.
The Defense of Marriage Act, also instituted by Clinton, was overturned by this 2015 Supreme Court case. The decision of this case requires that all states and territories issue same-sex marriage licenses and to recognize same-sex marriages recognized by other institutions.
Stonewall Inn Riots
Bill Clinton
Obergefell v. Hodges &lt;Halza&gt;
The Tu’i Tonga, or king, was the only person in Tongan culture not to have this distinguishing feature, as he was considered too high-ranked to be touched. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, which, in Polynesian tradition, was completed by tapping a sharpened au [OW] dipped in a dye made from soot into ornate designs. The process to receive this distinguishing mark often took many weeks.
Tattoos found on Ötzi, a 5300 year-old man whose remains were preserved in the Tisenjoch Glacier, were the first conclusive evidence of tattooing in this continent. The Picts of this continent were also rumored to have tattoos.
The women of this ethnic group of Japan were tattooed as early as age 12 and had their tattoos completed at age 16. The men of this ethnic group are often recognized by their long beards, as they are forbidden to cut their hair after the age of 16.
tattooing or tattoo [accept tatau]
Europe
Ainu [or Aynu or Ezo] &lt;Halza&gt;
Answer the following about pyramids around the world, for 10 points each:
The pyramidal Ryugyong Hotel in this country remains unfinished despite its construction starting in 1987. A grand opening was planned in 2012 on the centenary of this country’s “Eternal President” Kim Il-Sung, but it was eventually scrapped.
The Pyramid of the Sun at this famed Mesoamerican site is the third largest pyramid in the world. Home to the Avenue of the Dead and the Pyramid of the Moon, the mysterious inhabitants of this ancient city were also known for the export of obsidian.
The Great Pyramid of Giza is named for this Old Kingdom monarch. Although this son of King Sneferu created the largest of the Egyptian pyramids, the only artifact maintaining this king’s likeness is a small ivory statue.
North Korea [or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; prompt on Korea]
Teotihuacan
Khnum Khufu [or Cheops] &lt;Halza&gt;
U.S. states have had their fair share of border disputes. For 10 points each:
This 1835 to 1836 war, named after an Ohio city, saw the militias of Michigan and Ohio face off across the Maumee River. In exchange for the namesake city, this war was ended by ceding the Upper Peninsula to Michigan.
The 1839 Honey War, fought between Iowa and this state, sought to define the latitudinal border running along the Des Moines. Elsewhere, the land possessions of John Hardeman Walker would ultimately become this state’s southeastern “bootheel” in 1820.
This man set California’s eastern border to be along the crest of the Sierra Nevada without a survey, which would lead to the 1863 Sagebrush War between California and Nevada. He also served as the Republican Party’s first presidential candidate.
Toledo War [accept Michigan-Ohio War]
Missouri
John Charles Fremont &lt;Halza&gt;
Answer the following about foods named after famous people in history, for 10 points each:
This puff pastry-wrapped tenderloin dish was named after Arthur Wellesley, a famed field marshal who defeated Napoleon Bonaparte at the Battle of Waterloo. The dish’s name derives from the Somerset town of which Wellesley was the first duke.
A false history attributes the creation of this classic Neapolitan pizza to Raffaele Esposito in homage to the namesake Queen of Italy in 1890. Tradition has it that the tomato, mozzarella, and basil on this pizza represent the colors of the Italian flag.
This baked meringue dessert derives its name from a world famous Russian ballerina in the early 1900s. Commonly topped with cream and fruit, this dessert is a common summer dish in Australia and New Zealand.
Beef Wellington
Margherita pizza [accept Margherita of Savoy]
pavlova [accept Anna Pavlova] &lt;Halza&gt;
This man payed money to the Danes after losing at the Battle of Maldon. For 10 points each:
Name this English king who came to the throne as a tweenager and whose nickname is a pun meaning, “ill-advised.”
In 1002, Æthelred made an alliance with this territory by marrying the daughter of the Duke, Emma. Æthelred later fled to this territory after King Sweyn Forkbeard of Denmark invaded England.
After the death of Æthelred in April of 1016, this son of Æthelred became King of England for six months until his death, ruling Wessex even after Cnut the Great conquered England.
Æthelred the Unready [or Æthelred II]
Duchy of Normandy
Edmund Ironside [or Edmund II] &lt;McMaken&gt;
This man, despite being a trained electrician, completed much of his early advocacy work in shipyards. For 10 points each:
Name this Polish labor activist who organized the first independent Warsaw Pact labor union at the Lenin Shipyard of Gdansk.
Walesa was the head of this labor union, which comprised a majority government in Poland’s first semi-free elections under Soviet overhead in 1989. As leader of this labor union, Walesa became president of Poland in that election.
In 2011, Walesa rejected the Order of Vytautas the Great, a presidential award bestowed on political leaders in service to this country. Poland and this country were unified in a commonwealth that lasted from the 16th century through the 18th century.
Lech Walesa
Solidarity [or Independent Self-Governing Trade Union]
Republic of Lithuania &lt;Halza&gt;
This treaty has been amended as recently as 2009 in the Treaty of Lisbon, and requires its members to keep their debt at 60% of their GDP or lower. For 10 points each:
Name this 1992 treaty, named for the Dutch city in which it was signed, that created the European Union.
The European Union was preceded by another intracontinental organization that was created by the Treaty of Rome, which in turn revised this earlier 1951 treaty.
The Treaty of Paris was itself preceded by the Schuman Declaration which proposed the creation of this organization to regulate Europe’s industrial production.
Maastricht Treaty [prompt on Treaty on European Union or TEU]
Treaty of Paris [or Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community]
European Coal and Steel Community [or ECSC] &lt;Jin&gt;
Answer the following about failed U.S. presidential assassination attempts, for 10 points each:
Richard Lawrence, an unemployed house painter, attempted to shoot this seventh President when he was exiting a funeral. Luckily, both of Lawrence’s pistols misfired and this president, Old Hickory, beat him with his cane.
Harry Truman survived an assassination attempt at White House, planned by Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola from this island. During Truman’s terms as president, this Caribbean island was given the right to vote for its own governor.
This shooter attempted to assassinate President Reagan outside of the Washington Hilton Hotel, striking Reagan with a single bullet. This man claimed that his action was an attempt to impress actress Jodie Foster.
Andrew Jackson
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
John Hinckley Jr. &lt;Halza&gt;
A monument for an incident at this location was erected by Lord Curzon in front of St. John’s Church in 1901. For 10 points each:
Name this prison during the Third Carnatic War in which 123 British prisoners of war died in one night from suffocation and heat exhaustion because of the cramped conditions.
Robert Clive freed the survivors of the Black Hole of Calcutta and emerged victorious at this 1757 battle, securing the British East India Company’s presence in India.
The troops of this last Nawab of Bengal were responsible for the massacre of British soldiers in the Black Hole of Calcutta. This man was betrayed by Mir Jafar which contributed to him losing the Battle of Plassey.
Black Hole of Calcutta
Battle of Plassey
Siraj ud-Daulah &lt;Jin&gt;
The British Royal Family was quite busy during the Second World War. For 10 points each:
This king ruled the United Kingdom through World War II until his death in 1952. This man ascended the throne when Prince Edward abdicated the throne to marry the American Wallis Simpson.
Although the king and his family ultimately stayed in Great Britain during the war, a plan was in place to transport them to this country. Soldiers from this Commonwealth nation stormed Juno Beach on D-Day.
Princess Elizabeth, despite being 14 years old at the onset of the war, later joined this female branch of the British military, working as a driver and mechanic. This branch was later merged into the Women’s Royal Army Corps in 1949.
King George VI
Canada
Auxiliary Territorial Service [or ATS] &lt;Halza&gt;
The plaintiff in this court case was previously charged with being involved in the “California Gold” numbers operation. For 10 points each:
Name this 1961 U.S. Supreme Court case in which a woman from Cleveland claimed she could not be prosecuted for the seizure of pornographic material found in her house during a search for gambling paraphernalia.
Mapp v. Ohio established the exclusionary rule, which prevents evidence obtained without a warrant from being used in court. This legal metaphor is used to describe such illegally-obtained evidence.
The decision in Mapp v. Ohio was based on this earlier 1886 U.S. Supreme Court case in which a government search of a company’s invoice papers was referred to by the court as “unreasonable search and seizure.”
Mapp v. Ohio
“fruit of the poisonous tree”
Boyd v. United States [or Boyd v. U.S.] &lt;Jin&gt;
This man rose to prominence as a General during the Peninsular campaign in the Napoleonic Wars. For 10 points each:
Name this man who served as British prime minister twice as a Tory after the end of the Napoleonic Wars and oversaw the passage of the Catholic Relief Act of 1829 and the Reform Act of 1832.
Arthur Wellesley commanded the allied army, along with a Prussian army under Blücher, at the Battle of Waterloo during this period between Napoleon’s return from exile and the second restoration of Louis XVIII [“the eighteenth”].
During the Hundred Days, this meeting was occurring simultaneously. Its main objective was to secure a long term peace in Europe following Napoleon’s surrender in May 1814, and it was chaired by Austrian statesman Klemens von Metternich.
Arthur Wellesley [accept 1st Duke of Wellington]
The Hundred Days [anti-prompt on War of the Seventh Coalition]
Congress of Vienna &lt;Leberer&gt;
A pre-Protestant Christian group named for this man prompted a series of namesake Bohemian wars that lasted from 1419 to 1433. For 10 points each:
Name this Bohemian priest, who was an advocate of realism in the Catholic Church and was a strong proponent of John Wycliffe, whose writings were first banned by Pope Innocent VII [“the seventh”].
Jan Hus [YAWN HOOSE], startled by the educational disparity of country priests in Bohemia, translated many religious texts into this language, his native tongue. Jan Hus completed much of his work before leaving university in Prague.
Having been found guilty of heresy by the Catholic Church, Jan Hus was put to death in this manner. Joan of Arc was also notably put to death in this fashion due to a conviction of heresy by repeated cross-dressing.
Jan Hus [accept Hussite]
Czech
burned at the stake [or obvious equivalents] &lt;Halza&gt;
Armies throughout history have attempted to use animals as weapons. For 10 points each:
Hannibal, noted for his use of war elephants, was defeated at this battle by Scipio Africanus, who brilliantly defeated the formidable elephants by allowing them to charge past his ranks and remove them from battle.
These small animals were used extensively in World War I to communicate between army divisions. One of these animals, a blue check hen named Cher Ami, delivered a message saving the “Lost Battalion” despite being shot in the wing.
The Russian military trained dogs strapped with explosives to run under enemy tanks in this war. Although their success is uncertain, twelve German tanks were disabled by dog-chartered explosives at the Battle of Kursk in this war.
Battle of Zama
homing pigeon [or messenger pigeon]
World War Two [or obvious equivalents] &lt;Halza&gt;
Numerous resignations have plagued the current administration under President Trump. For 10 points each:
This former White House Press Secretary was often satirized on Saturday Night Live by an emphatic Melissa McCarthy and was noted for his habit of chewing and swallowing large quantities of gum.
Name this former member of President Trump’s Cabinet, who resigned from his post as Secretary of Health and Human Services due to inappropriate use of government aircrafts and charters.
This former White House Director of Communications and confidante to President Trump resigned suddenly on March 1st, 2018. She succeeded Anthony Scaramucci in her post.
Sean Spicer
Tom Price
Hope Hicks &lt;Stecko&gt;
Answer the following about the Falklands War, for 10 points each:
The Falklands War was fought between these two nations.
This British prime minister was in office in 1982 during the Falklands War. This longest-serving prime minister of the 20th century was also known as the “Iron Lady.”
The surrender of the Argentinian forces occurred at this capital of the Falkland Islands. The name of this city is shared with the surname of an explorer who was famously quoted as saying “Dr. Livingstone, I presume?”
the United Kingdom and Argentina [or Great Britain and Argentina]
Margaret Thatcher
Port Stanley &lt;Halza&gt;
The history of the United States has been occasionally marked by incursions of the freedom of speech. For 10 points each,
This lawsuit, brought to the Supreme Court in 1984, held that the burning of the American flag was a protected form of speech.
This bill, passed by a Federalist-dominated Congress under John Adams, sought to forbid “false, scandalous, or malicious writing.”
In one of the earliest cases addressing freedom of speech, this German-American printer was accused of libel in 1733 after criticizing colonial governor William Cosby in his newspaper, The New York Weekly Journal.
Texas v. Johnson
Sedition Act of 1798
Peter Zenger &lt;Halza&gt;
Militaries have crossed the English Channel for millennia, either in pursuit or as the pursued. For 10 points each:
This man’s forces were responsible for the first foreign invasion of England in 55 BC. That invasion by this man was justified on the grounds that enemies opposing his conquest of Gaul in 58 BC had retreated across the English Channel.
The Battle of Quiberon Bay in this war stymied France’s plans to invade England by crossing the English Channel through a devastation of French naval forces. During this war, William Pitt the Elder acted as Great Britain’s war minister.
During World War II, a mass exodus of over 300,000 British troops was executed from the French port of Dunkirk during this operation. Over 800 ships, many of which were civilian owned, executed this operation.
Gaius Julius Caesar [prompt on Caesar]
Seven Years’ War
Operation Dynamo &lt;Halza&gt;
The exiled leaders of this short-lived European state were captured in the Sigmaringen enclave in April 1945. For 10 points each:
Name this Nazi German puppet state in southern France, named for the small spa town that acted as its capital.
This man was Vichy France’s head of state for the five years of its existence. Known to some as the Lion of Verdun, this man was hailed as a national hero despite being sentenced to life imprisonment for treason.
French North Africa, a possession of Vichy France, was invaded in 1942 by a combined British and American force in this operation. This operation was the second advance into Axis-occupied North Africa following the defeat at the Battle of El Alamein.
Vichy France
Henri Philippe Benoni Omer Joseph Pétain [or Marshal Pétain]
Operation Torch &lt;Halza&gt;
Famed explorer and circumnavigator Ferdinand Magellan was killed in 1521 at the Battle of Mactan in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which was colonized by Spain from 1565-1898 out of the city of Manila.
During World War II, tens of thousands of Filipino and American P.O.W.s were sent on a death march named for this Philippine peninsula. Over ten thousand Filipino P.O.W.s were killed on this death march.
Following twenty years of rule by Ferdinand Marcos, this woman became the first female president of the Philippines in 1986. She is best known for reinstating a bicameral congress in the Philippines.
The Philippines
Bataan Death March
Corazon Aquino &lt;Halza&gt;
A pioneering woman in this occupation worked as a patent clerk before interacting with men in uniform from the Baltimore Riot in 1861. For 10 points each:
Clara Barton adopted this occupation at the onset of the Civil War. Her work in this occupation would later be an inspiration in the formation of the American Red Cross.
Dorothea Dix, another Civil War nurse, rather made her name in the creation of the first generation of these establishments in the mid-1800s. Dix helped create the Harrisburg State Hospital in 1851, Pennsylvania’s first one of these establishments.
This woman also was educated as a nurse; however, she is far better known as a pioneering activist in birth control legislation. This woman’s American Birth Control League later became the Planned Parenthood Federation of America in 1942.
war nurse
mental asylums [or obvious equivalents]
Margaret Sanger &lt;Halza&gt;
While the tradition of the “seven kingdoms” was first established in Henry of Huntingdon’s <em>Historia Anglorum</em>, the first recorded use of this term is from around the 16th century. For 10 points each:
Give this term which described the pre-unification state of the seven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms.
This member of the Heptarchy had its capital at York. Notable kings include Kings Aethelfrith and Oswald.
One king of Northumbria was this man who adopted Roman Christianity. This son of Aethelfrith was the victor at the Battle of Winwaed where he overthrew Penda of Mercia.
Heptarchy
Northumbria
Oswiu of Northumbria &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This man failed his suicide attempt because the cyanide he swallowed only induced vomiting, and the river he jumped into was only 13 centimeters deep. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Black Hand who failed to assassinate Franz Ferdinand, and blew up the car behind him instead.
This eventual assassin of Franz Ferdinand was unable to act after the initial failure by Cabrinovic. He was imprisoned and eventually died of tuberculosis in his cell.
The assassination took place in this city. Military troops from this city supposedly were not present because it would offend the local citizenry.
Nedeljiko Cabrinovic
Gavrilo Princip
Sarajevo &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This man spoke against consumerism and environmental degradation in his encyclical <em>Laudato si.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this current Bishop of Rome who is the first Jesuit Pope and the first Pope from the Americas.
Pope Francis was the Archbishop of the capital city of this country. The Metropolitan Cathedral in that city also houses the remains of General José de San Martín.
Pope Francis was elected by the conclave after this action occurred with Pope Benedict XVI [“the sixteenth”] in 2013. This action has not happened since 1415 with Pope Gregory XII [“the twelfth”].
Pope Francis [or Jorge Mario Bergoglio]
Argentina
resignation from the papacy [or stepping down or equivalents] &lt;McMaken&gt;
Ho Chi Minh opened the Declaration of Independence for Vietnam with this line. For 10 points each:
Give this five-word phrase from the U.S. Declaration of Independence that is said to be a self-evident truth.
Ho Chi Minh convinced this emperor to abdicate. This last emperor of Vietnam also was responsible for officially adopting the name “Vietnam,” formally replacing “Annam.”
Bao Dai was the final emperor of this final ruling family of Vietnam. Other members of this dynasty include Gia Long and Minh Mang.
“all men are created equal” [exact answer required]
Bao Dai
Nguyen Dynasty &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This dynasty was the first in China to establish a permanent standing navy. For 10 points each:
Name this first Chinese dynasty to print paper money. It experienced a “Southern” period when it moved to Hangzhou under pressure from the northern Jin dynasty.
This conservative scholar-official of the Song dynasty wrote the Comprehensive Mirror in Aid of Governance, which was a universal history of China. This man opposed Wang Anshi’s reforms.
The Song, much like dynasties before it, maintained a state monopoly on this resource. During the Han dynasty, the regent Huo Guang invited scholars to have economic policy debates on this resource and iron.
Song dynasty (accept Southern Song)
Sima Guang (both parts required; prompt on partial answer; or Junshi)
salt (accept Discourses on Salt and Iron) &lt;Suh&gt;
This leader started the Guulwade cult of personality and touched off a Cold War crisis when he invaded a neighboring country’s Ogaden region. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator who switched his allegiance during the Cold War when the Soviet Union refused to support his invasion of Ethiopia.
Siad Barre led this country, made up of a former Italian colony merged with a former British one on the horn of Africa. This country lapsed into a very long period of civil war after Siad Barre’s death.
The warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid, who took control of Mogadishu after Siad Barre died, was the target of a US operation given this nickname after a type of US helicopter that crashed near its outset. This phrase also titles a 2001 Ridley Scott film about the same operation.
Ahmed Siad Barre [“see-ahd BAH-ray”] (require both parts)
Somalia
“Black Hawk Down” &lt;Myers&gt;
The English scholar Alcuin of York served in this ruler’s court. For 10 points each:
Name this Carolingian ruler whose rule heralded a namesake “Renaissance.”
Charlemagne opposed the decision of the second ecumenical council held in this city that restored the veneration of icons. The first ecumenical council held in this city produced a namesake “creed” after striking down the Arian heresy.
Charlemagne was crowned the King of these people in 774 after laying siege to Pavia and removing their king Desiderius.
Charlemagne (or Charles the Great; or Charles I; or Carolus Magnus; prompt on partial answer)
Nicaea (accept Nicene Creed)
Lombards &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about news outlets that have become notable in 2018.
In September, this newspaper published an anonymous op-ed whose author claimed to be “working diligently from within to frustrate” the President’s agenda. This newspaper’s columnists include Paul Krugman [“kroog-mun”].
This website often publishes bogus stories and conspiracy theories, including claims that the Sandy Hook shootings were false flag operations. After this website’s founder heckled Marco Rubio on camera, Rubio responded by threatening to personally “take care of [him].”
In August, this newspaper urged editorial boards across the nation to condemn President Trump’s “relentless assault on the free press.” This newspaper published a 2002 exposé [“ex-poe-zay”] of child sex abuse in the Catholic Archdiocese, as depicted in the 2015 film Spotlight.
The New York Times (accept NYT; prompt on Times)
InfoWars
The Boston Globe (prompt on the Globe) &lt;R. Li&gt;
One of the most iconic images from this political movement was the “It’s High Noon” election poster. For 10 points each:
Name this trade union begun by Lech Wałęsa [“vah-WEH-sa”] at the Lenin shipyard in 1980.
In 1989, this country’s government invited Solidarity to the so-called “Round Table Talks” in its capital Warsaw to ease social unrest. Solidarity is still active as a trade union in this country.
Another anti-communist movement in Poland was an “Alternative” movement named for this color, which started in Wrocław [“VROT-zwaff”]. A revolution named for this color took place in Ukraine from 2004 to 2005.
Solidarity (or Solidarność)
Poland
orange (accept Orange Alternative; accept Orange Revolution) &lt;Huang&gt;
Answer the following questions about prominent political families in American history, for 10 points each:
At least one member of this family has continuously held federal elective office since 1947, the most famous of whom was a president who was assassinated in 1963 by Lee Harvey Oswald.
A man from this early American family, Charles Cotesworth, unsuccessfully ran for president in 1804, while his brother Thomas was once the Governor of South Carolina.
One member of this family, who was a son of a former president, unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination three times, but was nonetheless named one of the five greatest Senators of all time.
Kennedy
Pinckney
Taft &lt;Suh&gt;
This man was often referred to by the honorific <em>Mwalimu</em>, meaning “teacher.” For 10 points each:
Name this African leader whose 1967 Arusha Declaration promulgated the concept of ujamaa.
Nyerere was the leader of Tanganyika and this present day country. This country fought and won a war against Uganda after Nyerere offered sanctuary to Uganda’s deposed president Milton Obote.
Tanzania’s victory in the war against Uganda forced this infamous Ugandan dictator to flee. Earlier, this man expelled all Asians from Uganda, and Israel launched Operation Entebbe against this man’s air force.
Julius Nyerere
Tanzania
Idi Amin &lt;Suh&gt;
This man’s only book, <em>Notes on the State of Virginia</em>, is widely considered to be the most important American book published before 1800. For 10 points each:
Name this Founding Father and president who was the principal author of the Declaration of Independence.
Along with James Madison, Jefferson wrote a set of resolutions opposing the Alien and Sedition Acts named after Virginia and this other state.
After years of controversy, DNA tests have led most historians to believe that Jefferson was the father of this slave woman’s six children.
Thomas Jefferson
Kentucky (accept Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions)
Sally Hemings &lt;Suh&gt;
An anonymous letter sent to William Parker, 4th Baron Monteagle, was instrumental in revealing this plot’s existence. For 10 points each:
Name this failed 1605 plot to blow up the House of Lords with the titular substance. This event’s conspirators included Guy Fawkes.
The Gunpowder Plot attempted to assassinate this king of England. This “wisest fool in all of Christendom” wrote the Daemonologie after becoming obsessed with hunting down witches.
This leader of the Gunpowder Plot died making a final stand at the Holbeche House. His head was decapitated and displayed outside of the Parliament.
Gunpowder Plot (or Gunpowder Treason Plot; or Jesuit Treason)
James I (or James VI of Scotland)
Robert Catesby &lt;Suh&gt;
Paris has been through some rough times. For 10 points each:
On July 14, 1789, protesters stormed the Bastille and started the French Revolution, which brought down this last king of France. He was the husband of Marie Antoinette.
Even though Paris was technically its capital, this government really operated from the namesake city located south in the zone libre. Marshal Philippe Pétain was its Head of State from 1940 to 1944.
During a conflict involving this region and Orleans, John the Fearless incited the namesake group of Parisian butchers to rise up in the Cabochien revolt. This region’s last independent ruler died at the Battle of Nancy.
Louis XVI of France (or Citizen Louis Capet)
Vichy France
Burgundy &lt;Suh&gt;
The narrow passage of a referendum in France of this treaty was called the <em>“petite oui”</em> <strong>[roughly “we”]</strong>. For 10 points each:
Name this treaty signed in 1992 that founded the European Union. The treaty is named after a city in the Netherlands where it was signed.
The European Union was preceded by a “Community” that regulated the production of these two commodities. Name either.
The aforementioned European Coal and Steel Community was founded by a treaty signed in this city. A “Peace Conference” held in this city produced the Treaty of Versailles [“ver-SYE”] which ended World War I.
Maastricht Treaty (accept Treaty on European Union if they jump the gun and say it before mention)
coal or steel (accept European Coal and Steel Community)
Paris &lt;Suh&gt;
This empire’s ruler’s concubines lived in the Imperial Harem, which was also known as the seraglio. For 10 points each:
Name this empire whose namesake style of architecture was influenced by Seljuk and Byzantine architecture. This empire also built the Blue Mosque and converted an Eastern Orthodox cathedral into the Hagia Sophia.
The Fatih Mosque and Tiled Kiosk were built during the reign of this Ottoman sultan, who took Constantinople in May 1453 to earn the epithet “Conqueror.”
This palace with a name meaning “Cannon Gate,” was constructed shortly after Mehmed II’s conquest of Constantinople and today stands as a museum.
Ottoman Empire
Mehmed II (or Mehmed the Conqueror)
Topkapı [“tope-KAH-pee”] Palace &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about secret police organizations in European history.
This dictator conducted his Great Purge through the secret police NKVD. He also led the Soviet Union through World War II.
One of this country’s espionage missions caused Willy Brandt to resign in the Guillaume Affair. Markus Wolf was a longtime leader of its secret police, the Stasi.
The PIDE was the secret police of this regime that once operated a prison camp in Tarrafal in its colony of Cape Verde. This regime assassinated the dissident Air Force general Humberto Delgado.
Josef Stalin (or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili)
East Germany (or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; accept DDR; do NOT accept or prompt on “West Germany” or “Germany”)
Estado Novo (or Second Republic of Portugal; prompt on partial answer; prompt on descriptive answers mentioning António de Oliveira Salazar) &lt;Suh&gt;
After experiencing the Great Disappointment in 1843, this woman distanced herself from her Millerite friends. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who became an abolitionist after an intense religious experience, saying “The Spirit calls me, and I must go.”
Sojourner Truth is perhaps best known for this speech she gave in Ohio, which has been titled after a question that often appeared in a paraphrased version of this speech.
This other African American abolitionist woman, nicknamed “Moses,” helped hundreds of slaves escape via the Underground Railroad.
Sojourner Truth (or Isabella Baumfree)
“Ain’t I a Woman?”
Harriet Tubman &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about central banks setting negative interest rates.
The European Central Bank instituted negative interest rates in 2014 as a measure to deal with an economic crisis in this country, in which the Syriza Party was elected to oppose austerity programs.
Negative interest rates were implemented as part of this policy guided by “three arrows” including a rise in the consumption tax. It is named for the current Prime Minister of Japan.
After the Swiss experiment, the first country to use negative interest rates was this one, in which the Social Democratic Party has led for decades due to strong bases of support in cities like Malmo and Stockholm.
Greece
Abenomics
Sweden &lt;Myers&gt;
After Lord Melbourne resigned, Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington declined this monarch’s request to become Prime Minister. For 10 points each:
Name this last monarch of the House of Hanover who was also the Empress of India beginning in 1876.
During this event, Victoria refused to dismiss certain female officials from her court, many of whom were the wives of leading Whig politicians.
This politician unsuccessfully asked Victoria to dismiss some of her Ladies of the Bedchamber. He also repealed the Corn Laws in response to the Irish Potato Famine and established London’s Metropolitan police force.
Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom
Bedchamber Crisis
Robert Peel &lt;Suh&gt;
The last king of this dynasty had a particularly sadistic consort who would make people walk across an oily bronze cylinder placed above a fiery furnace. For 10 points each:
Name this earliest Chinese dynasty to be supported by archaeological evidence. This dynasty utilized oracle bones for divination purposes.
The Zhou dynasty succeeded the Shang, and the first half of its “Eastern” period is known by this name. The seasonal name for this period is taken from the title of the official chronicle of the Lu dynasty.
This philosopher who lived during the Spring and Autumn Period influenced many others such as Mencius. This man’s aphorisms were collected in the Analects.
Shang dynasty (or Yin dynasty)
Spring and Autumn Period (accept Spring and Autumn Annals; accept Chun qiu shi chi)
Confucius (or Kongzi) &lt;Suh&gt;
The official language of this empire was the Quechua. For 10 points each:
Name this South American empire that was centered at Cusco. Francisco Pizarro conquered this empire in 1533.
After being arrested by Pizarro, this last Incan emperor offered two roomfuls of gold as his ransom, but was executed nonetheless.
Lacking a system of writing, the Inca instead used these knotted strings for record keeping and communication.
Inca Empire
Atahualpa
quipu (or khipu; accept talking knots) &lt;Sayphraraj&gt;
A man of this name said, “Something must be done” after he met unemployed coal workers in South Wales. For 10 points each:
Give the first name of that man who abdicated the throne to marry an American woman who had two divorces. Another man of this name was nicknamed “Longshanks,” and yet another was dubbed the Black Prince.
After abdicating the throne, Edward VIII was installed as the governor of this Caribbean archipelago, whose capital is Nassau. Thousands of Loyalists resettled here after the Revolutionary War.
This British politician was the Prime Minister at the time of Edward VIII’s abdication. This man is the only politician to serve as Prime Minister under three different monarchs.
Edward (accept Edward VIII; accept Edward, the Black Prince; accept Edward I or Edward the Longshanks; accept any other Edward)
The Bahamas
Stanley Baldwin &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, name these questions about the Spanish Civil War.
This dictator was the leader of the Nationalists during the war. He ordered the bombing of Guernica, which was carried out by the Condor Legion.
During the Spanish Civil War, this two-word term was used to describe clandestine groups of saboteurs and spies who worked to undermine the nation’s solidarity from within.
This man coined the term “fifth column” to describe how internal supporters helped his Nationalists take Madrid. He died in a suspicious plane crash that was suspected to be engineered by his rival Franco.
Francisco Franco
fifth column
Emilio Mola &lt;Huang&gt;
A correspondence that hurt this man’s presidential campaign ended with the incriminating phrase, “Please kindly burn this letter.” For 10 points each:
Name this politician whose failed 1876 presidential campaign was hurt by the Mulligan letters. Eight years later, this man also lost out after Samuel Burchard gave a speech attacking “rum, Romanism, and rebellion.”
This Democrat won the 1884 presidential election despite Blaine’s supporters deriding him with the question “Ma, ma, where’s my Pa?” This man is the only president to serve non-consecutive terms.
During the 1876 Republican National Convention, this orator, nicknamed “The Great Agnostic,” supported Blaine in a speech calling him a “plumed knight.”
James G. Blaine
Grover Cleveland
Robert G. Ingersoll &lt;Suh&gt;
Theodore Janssen was expelled from the House of Commons for his involvement with this company. For 10 points each:
Name this joint-stock company whose shares crashed in an economic bubble in 1720.
The South Sea Company was partially created to take advantage of one of these trade monopoly licenses that Spain gave to England in 1713’s Treaty of Utrecht.
British journalist Charles Mackay’s book Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds documented the 1637 economic bubble caused by a sharp decline in the price of tulips in this European country with capital Amsterdam.
South Sea Company (accept South Sea bubble)
asiento
the Netherlands (accept Dutch Republic) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about historical efforts to build canals.
This Roman emperor made the first attempt to build the Corinth Canal, but his plans were abandoned soon after his death. Legend says this man played the fiddle while Rome burned, though this is probably untrue.
Major portions of China’s Grand Canal were connected into a continuous structure for the first time during this dynasty, the predecessor of the Tang dynasty. This dynasty decisively lost the Battle of Salsu to Goguryeo [“GO-goo-ryo”].
Ancient Egyptians built canals to bypass these shallow, white water rapid portions of the Nile River. It’s not a dam, but the first of the six major ones of these structures is in Aswan.
Nero
Sui [“soo”] dynasty
cataracts &lt;Suh&gt;
When Harry Truman first became president in this year, Eleanor Roosevelt asked, “Is there anything we can do for you? For you are the one in trouble now!” For 10 points each:
Name this year that marked the end of World War II when Truman detonated two atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
During his acceptance speech at the 1948 Democratic National Convention, Truman attacked the inefficiency of the Congress with this two-word phrase.
Truman had a sign on his desk with this phrase that expressed his understanding that the President had to accept the ultimate responsibility for the decisions of his administration.
1945 (prompt on 45)
“Do Nothing Congress”
“The buck stops here” &lt;Suh&gt;
One of this man’s guardians, Osbern, was killed in this man’s room while he was asleep. For 10 points each:
Name this man who later landed his forces at Pevensey before winning the Battle of Hastings against Harold Godwinson.
William was originally the Duke of Normandy, a region that was first given to these people by Charles III of France in 911. These people attacked the Lindisfarne Abbey in 793.
This civil war broke out after William’s grandson, William Adelin, died in the White Ship disaster. During this time, when “Christ and his saints were asleep,” Stephen of Blois waged war against Empress Matilda.
William I of England (or William the Conqueror; or William the Bastard; accept William II of Normandy; prompt on partial answer)
Vikings
The Anarchy &lt;Suh&gt;
This ruler survived the Fronde as a child. For 10 points each:
Name this “Sun King” whose policy of the dragonnades [“drah-goh-nods”] virtually destroyed Huguenot presence in France.
Louis also issued the Edict of Fontainebleau which revoked this earlier edict that gave religious freedom to the Huguenots.
Under Louis’ reign, France fought this war in which they overran much of the Spanish Netherlands but were forced to give back most of the gains in the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle [“eks-la-sha-PEL”] of 1668.
Louis XIV (or Louis the Great)
Edict of Nantes [“nahnt”]
War of Devolution &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points, answer these rather depressing questions about historical genocides.
Identify this genocide committed by Nazi Germany which killed around six million Jews, along with millions of Russians, Poles, the Roma, homosexuals, and the “incurably sick.”
Pol Pot was the leader of this Cambodian regime that killed millions of people at sites appropriately known as the “killing fields.”
Raphael Lemkin, the coiner of the term “genocide,” claimed that this event was one of the most conclusive cases of religious genocides. The target group of this event participated in the consolamentum to become “perfects.”
the Holocaust (or the Shoah)
Khmer Rouge (or Democratic Kampuchea or Communist Party of Cambodia; do NOT accept “Khmer Empire”)
Albigensian Crusade (or Cathar Crusade) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about relatively unknown events of the Civil War.
This president of the Confederacy was the target of an assassination attempt in the Dahlgren Raid. He once emptied out his pockets in order to pacify angry women demanding bread.
The Bahia incident occurred when a Union warship captured a Confederate warship in the namesake harbor of this South American country. Around twenty years later, the Golden Law abolished slavery in this country.
The USS Kearsarge sank the CSS Alabama in this naval skirmish off the coast of France. Edouard Manet produced two paintings of this battle.
Jefferson Davis
Brazil
Battle of Cherbourg &lt;Suh&gt;
After publishing a photograph showing one of these creatures, the <em>Times</em> published an editorial reading, “It is not known whether she reached the center.” For 10 points each:
Name this animal that appears in a 1993 photo taken by Kevin Carter while working for the UN. Several months after taking that photo with this animal, Carter committed suicide.
International responses arose after pictures emerged of a boy sitting in an ambulance covered in dust and blood after being rescued from an airstrike in Aleppo during this Middle Eastern nation’s recent civil war.
Perhaps the original photo of children in crisis is this one taken by Dorothea Lange showing two children turning to their mother for comfort in a California pea pickers’ camp during the Great Depression.
a vulture (prompt on bird; if someone says human, begrudgingly prompt by asking “What other animal is in the picture?”) [Ed’s note: the photo is Struggling Girl.]
Syria (or the Syrian Arab Republic)
Migrant Mother &lt;Yue/Kuang&gt;
In August 2018, this man’s tweet that “funding” was “secured” to take a certain company “private at $420” per share launched a SEC investigation that culminated in a $40 million fine. For 10 points each:
Name this embattled CEO of SpaceX and Tesla. His recent plea for Twitter users to send him their “dankest memes” garnered widespread ridicule.
Elon Musk’s attempted buyback was largely funded by the Saudi Royal Family, including funds controlled by this crown prince and defense minister. This man was criticized for his handling of Jamal Khashoggi’s murder.
Elon Musk was born in this country. Its other prominent businessmen include the Gupta family, who were often criticized for their ties to this country’s former president Jacob Zuma.
Elon Musk
Muhammad bin Salman (accept MBS; prompt on Muhammad)
South Africa &lt;R. Li/Myers&gt;
During this war, the Representation of the People Act gave the right to vote to all British women over 30. For 10 points each:
Name this war that suffragettes Emmeline and Christabel Pankhurst supported in order to defeat the “German Peril.” The war began with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914.
A group of 101 British suffragettes wrote and signed a 1914 open letter of this name to call for the end of World War I. During the war, a truce by this name led to many unofficial ceasefires along the trenches of the Western Front.
While advocating for the women’s right to vote at the Epsom Derby, the suffragette Emily Davison was killed in this rather bizarre manner.
World War I (or Great War; accept WWI)
Christmas (accept Open Christmas Letter; accept Christmas Truce)
she was hit by a horse (accept reasonable equivalents) &lt;Suh&gt;
A ruler of this city was pelted with orange-like fruits called citrons because he refused to properly perform a water libation ceremony. For 10 points each:
Name this capital of the Hasmonean dynasty whose Second Temple was destroyed by Titus in AD 70.
This Roman general intervened in the Hasmonean Civil War and conquered Judea in 63 BC. This member of the First Triumvirate was later defeated by Julius Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalus.
This group who met in the Hall of Hewn Stones was the legislature of the Hasmonean dynasty.
Jerusalem
Pompey (or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus)
Sanhedrin &lt;Suh&gt;
This man reportedly once told a French visitor “You can kill ten of my men for every one I kill of yours. But even at those odds, you will lose and I will win.” For 10 point each:
Name this Communist leader of Vietnam who was the namesake of a supply route “Trail” that he used to fight Ngo Dinh Diem’s [“ngoh deen dee-em”] US-backed government.
Ho Chi Minh’s Viet Minh army crushed a French force at this decisive 1954 battle that ended the First Indochina War. The French artillery commander at this battle, Charles Piroth, committed suicide out of shame.
This victorious commander at the Battle of Dien Bien Phu compared the battlefield to a “rice bowl.” Later, he served two terms as Vietnam’s Minister of Defence.
Ho Chi Minh (or Nguyen Sinh Cung; or Nguyen Tan Thanh; or Nguyen Ai Quoc; or Bac Ho)
Battle of Dien Bien Phu
Vo Nguyen Giap [“ziap”] &lt;Suh&gt;
This ruler’s favorite dog was an Irish Setter named Milord. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian czar nicknamed the “Liberator” who was assassinated by the People’s Will despite freeing the serfs.
Alexander is known as “The Good Tsar” in this country for reopening this country’s Diet and reissuing this country’s currency, the markka. 60 years later, this country built the Mannerheim Line of fortifications.
Alexander granted this form of local government to the serfs. After the October Revolution, the Bolshevik government replaced these with “soviets.”
Alexander II of Russia
Finland
zemstvos &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, name these politicians who escaped assassination.
This Cuban dictator infamously eluded many CIA plots to kill him, including one involving an exploding cigar.
A man under the pseudonym “Roy Walsh” planted a bomb in the Grand Brighton Hotel that killed five people but failed to assassinate this leader. This Prime Minister was also known as the “Milk Snatcher.”
While on a visit to Ōtsu, Japan, this future tsar of Russia survived an assassination attempt when a policeman swung a sabre at him. The attack left this man’s face permanently scarred.
Fidel Castro (prompt on partial answer)
Margaret Thatcher
Nicholas II (accept Nicholas Alexandrovich; prompt on Nicholas; do NOT accept or prompt on “Nicholas I”) &lt;R. Li&gt;
In 2009, the discovery of a silver boar badge led historians to rethink the exact location of this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this battle fought near Ambion Hill in which Henry VII’s forces killed Richard III.
The Battle of Bosworth Field occurred during these conflicts between the House of York and the House of Lancaster. These conflicts are named for the symbols of the two houses.
During the Wars of the Roses, this man was known as the “Kingmaker” for his power and influence that helped him to install two men to the English throne, but he was later killed at the Battle of Barnet by Edward IV’s forces.
Battle of Bosworth Field
Wars of the Roses
Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick (accept either part) &lt;Huang/Suh&gt;
The Ashanti made a stool out of this material. For 10 points each:
Name this shiny metal that was often considered to be a safe store of value. Mansa Musa famously caused inflation by spending so much of this material.
The Moroccan explorer Leo Africanus wrote of the fabulous wealth of this Malian city, while Europeans often considered it to be a fantastical, faraway location.
This fabulous traveler gave a contemporary account of Mansa Musa and his generosity. He turned a hajj into a travel across most of the Islamic world, which he chronicled in his Rihla.
gold
Timbuktu
Ibn Battuta &lt;Suh&gt;
The leaders of this movement, William Lovett and John Collins, spent a year in prison for seditious libel. For 10 points each:
Name this mid-19th century British working class reform movement named after a petition presented to the Parliament in 1838.
Chartism was particularly active in this country located to the west of England. Charles, the heir apparent to Queen Elizabeth II, is the current Prince of this country.
Nearly 10,000 Chartist sympathizers led by John Frost launched a failed rebellion in 1839 in this Welsh city. The mayor of this city, Thomas Phillips, was knighted six weeks later for successfully putting down the revolt.
Chartism (or Chartists)
Wales (or Cymru)
Newport (accept Newport Uprising) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the closure of Central European University.
Central European University was closed after massive protests by decree of this Prime Minister of the Fidesz Party, a noted opponent of immigration who has pledged to build an “illiberal state.”
Orban opposed CEU due to its sponsorship by this American billionaire and head of the Open Society Foundation. This prominent Democratic donor and holocaust survivor had a pipe bomb mailed to him in October 2018.
Soros and Orban both hail from this European country, where Orban governs from the capital city of Budapest.
Viktor Orban (accept Orban Viktor)
George Soros
Hungary &lt;Myers&gt;
You are a member of a middle-class white family in the 1960s. For 10 points each, let’s talk about some elements of your family life.
You may live in one of these suburban housing developments that targeted the families of returning World War II veterans. The namesake of these developments is often considered to be the father of American suburbia.
Your family may have listened to sermons of this American preacher, nicknamed “The Great Legitimator.” He was close friends with several presidents and led evangelistic campaigns known as his Crusades from 1947 to 2005.
Your parents may have read a book by this pediatrician who wrote the bestseller The Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care which begins, “Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.”
Levittowns (prompt on Levitt)
William Franklin “Billy” Graham
Benjamin Spock &lt;Suh&gt;
This site and Herculaneum were rediscovered in 1748 by a Spanish military commander. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Roman city that was almost completely buried by a volcanic eruption in AD 79.
The destruction of Pompeii and nearby communities was caused by the eruption of this volcano. For some time, Spartacus made this volcano his base of operations.
This Roman philosopher died in the Vesuvius explosion while trying to rescue a friend. This man was also a friend of Vespasian and wrote Naturalis Historia, a work considered to be a model for encyclopedias.
Pompeii
Mt. Vesuvius
Pliny the Elder (or Gaius Plinius Secundus; prompt on partial answer) &lt;Suh&gt;
Contemporary comedians made fun of this man’s large head and called him “Squill-head.” For 10 points each:
Name this Athenian leader who was held in such high regard that Thucydides [“thoo-SEE-duh-dees”] called him “the first citizen of Athens.” He and most of his family died in a plague during the Peloponnesian War.
During one of these annual events in Athens, Pericles gave a speech in which he claimed that the “reputations of many brave men” should “not be imperilled in the mouth of a single individual.”
This woman was the lover and long-term partner of Pericles. Not very much is known about her, and a scholar said that “to ask questions about this woman’s life is to ask questions about half of humanity.”
Pericles
funeral (accept Funeral Oration)
Aspasia &lt;Suh&gt;
King Seonjo <strong>[“SUN-joe”]</strong> of this country sent two men to the court of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, which was unhelpful because the two men delivered exactly opposite impressions about him. For 10 points each:
Name this East Asian country that was ruled by the Joseon [“joe-sun”] dynasty for over 500 years. Hideyoshi’s invasion of this peninsular country from 1592 to 1598 was repelled with the help of Admiral Yi’s turtle ships.
This daimyo preceded Toyotomi Hideyoshi as the first “great unifier.” He was killed in 1582 when his retainer Akechi Mitsuhide [“mit-soo-hee-day”] rebelled against him.
Portuguese traders introduced this type of matchlock firearm to the Japanese in 1543. Hideyoshi’s men used a type of this firearm called the tanegashima to great effect during the invasions of Joseon.
Korea
Oda Nobunaga
arquebus (prompt on rifles) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about failed legislative initiatives in American history.
This policy codified by the 18th Amendment and the Volstead Act banned the production and sale of alcoholic beverages. This policy was reversed with the ratification of the 21st Amendment in 1933.
This proposed Constitutional amendment aimed at banning discrimination based on sex was defeated by the efforts of Phyllis Schlafly. The Illinois General Assembly belatedly ratified this amendment in May 2018.
This failed New Deal-era legislation gave the President power to regulate industry for fair wages and prices, but was overturned by the Supreme Court case Schechter Poultry v. United States.
Prohibition
Equal Rights Amendment (or ERA)
National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933 (or NIRA) &lt;Suh&gt;
According to Arrian, this man massacred 8,000 of a city’s inhabitants after being enraged at the loss of his men caused by the city’s stout defenses. For 10 points each:
Name this victorious military commander at the Battle of Issus who built a causeway to capture the city of Tyre.
Tyre was a stronghold of these seafaring people who founded Carthage. These people also invented the alphabet and traded a very profitable purple dye.
Another stronghold of the Phoenicians was this city located north of Tyre in present-day Lebanon. This center of glass manufacturing was a rival of Tyre, and the sarcophagus of Eshmunazar II was discovered here in 1855.
Alexander the Great (or Alexander III of Macedon)
Phoenicians
Sidon [“SYE-dun”] &lt;Suh&gt;
Matt Damon lampooned this man on SNL by describing him as “a keg half full kind of guy.” For 10 points each:
Name this newest Supreme Court Justice whose nomination was nearly derailed by allegations of sexual assault from Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Deborah Ramirez, and other women.
After this Senator’s vote in favor of Kavanaugh, former UN Ambassador Susan Rice tweeted that she would be open to challenging this Senator in 2020. This Maine Senator broke with her party to vote against Obamacare repeal in 2017.
Before his ascent to the Supreme Court, Kavanaugh served on a federal appellate court based in this city. Despite Kavanaugh’s dissent, that court upheld the constitutionality of a semiautomatic rifle ban in a “sequel” to a Supreme Court case named for [this city] v. Heller.
Brett Kavanaugh
Susan Collins
Washington, D.C. (accept either underlined portion, as well as District of Columbia in place of “D.C.”) &lt;R. Li&gt;
This road was originally called Uttara Path, which means “road to the North.” For 10 points each:
Name this road that links Chittagong, Bangladesh to Kabul, Afghanistan. This road has existed for at least two millennia, and records indicate the existence of this road during the Mauryan Empire.
The Grand Trunk Road was significantly upgraded in the 18th century during this period of Indian history of direct British Crown rule that began after the failure of the Sepoy Mutiny. We are looking for a three-letter word that literally means “rule” in Hindustani.
The Grand Trunk Road runs through this major Indian city, the “New” one of which is the capital of India.
Grand Trunk Road (prompt on GT Road)
British Raj
Delhi (do NOT accept or prompt on “New Delhi”) &lt;Suh&gt;
Structures known as “peace walls” or “peace lines” can be found in this region. For 10 points each:
Name this westernmost member country of the United Kingdom whose capital, Belfast, was known as “Linenopolis” in the early 1800s because it was the world’s largest linen producer. Do not confuse the answer with a non-directionally named neighbor whose capital is Dublin.
Northern Ireland and Ireland engaged in this low-level guerrilla conflict for most of the late 20th century, which is often considered to have ended with the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
This Provisional Irish Republican Army member died in 1981 while on a hunger strike after being imprisoned for firearms possession.
Northern Ireland (do NOT accept or prompt on “Ireland”)
the Troubles
Robert Gerard “Bobby” Sands &lt;Suh&gt;
A man who resolved to die up to his “knees in blood” actually did die at this battle. For 10 points each:
Identify this misnamed Revolutionary War battle where Joseph Warren died. Israel Putnam may have ordered his men not to fire at their enemy until they saw the “whites of their eyes.” The battle was a costly British victory.
This other Pyrrhic British victory during the Revolutionary War pitted Nathanael Greene against General Charles Cornwallis. In its aftermath, one man exclaimed that “Another such victory would ruin the British Army!”
The Confederates scored a Pyrrhic victory at the Battle of Chancellorsville because they lost this general, who was accidentally shot by friendly fire. He gained his nickname from his performance at the First Battle of Bull Run.
Battle of Bunker Hill (prompt on Battle of Breed’s Hill)
Battle of Guilford Court House
Thomas Joseph “Stonewall” Jackson &lt;Suh&gt;
The retreat of a Spanish army from this city is known as La Noche Triste. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was built on an island in Lake Texcoco. Today, the ruins of this city are in the historic center of Mexico City.
This empire began when Tenochtitlan allied with two other city-states in the Valley of Mexico in 1428. Hernan Cortes conquered this empire in 1521.
This main temple of the Aztecs in Tenochtitlan was the site of a 1520 massacre committed by the conquistador Pedro de Alvarado.
Tenochtitlan
Aztec Empire (or Triple Alliance)
Templo Mayor (prompt on Great Temple) &lt;Suh&gt;
In this year, Louis-Philippe <strong>[“LOO-ee fil-LEEP”]</strong> was overthrown in France leading to the creation of the Second Republic, and the Habsburgs lost control of Hungary in this year. For 10 points each:
Name this year known as the Spring of Nations during which many nationalist revolutions took place in Europe.
This Austrian politician was forced to resign and flee to England after the Hungarian revolution in 1848. Earlier, he organized the Congress of Vienna.
This man led the Hungarian revolution of 1848. He later published the Cassandra letter, which opposed the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867.
1848 (prompt on 48)
Klemens von Metternich
Lajos [“LYE-yosh”] Kossuth [“KOE-shooth”] &lt;Huang&gt;
According to legend, this man once threw an inkwell at a wall to resist the Devil’s temptation. For 10 points each:
Name this religious reformer who started the Protestant Reformation by publishing the Ninety-five Theses.
This Swiss reformer met Luther at the Marburg Colloquy, but they could not reach an agreement on the question of the Real Presence of Christ at Eucharist. This man was killed in battle during the Second War of Kappel.
This English reformer translated the Bible from the Vulgate into Middle English, which is known as this man’s Bible. This leader of the Lollards attacked Catholic traditions such as the veneration of saints and sacraments.
Martin Luther
Huldrych Zwingli (or Ulrich Zwingli)
John Wycliffe (accept Wycliffe’s Bible) &lt;Suh&gt;
This man sponsored a film that showed the electrocution of a circus elephant named Topsy. For 10 points each:
Name this “Wizard of Menlo Park” whose inventions include the phonograph and the motion picture camera. This man and Harold Brown pushed for the adoption of direct current technology.
After working for a brief time at Edison Machine Works, this Serbian-American inventor pursued his own business ventures using the alternating current technology.
This inventor of the railway air brake battled Edison in the so-called “War of the Currents” by acquiring the patent for Tesla’s AC induction motor technology.
Thomas Alva Edison
Nikola Tesla
George Westinghouse Jr. &lt;Suh&gt;
During World War II, the United States gave $100 million in Lend-Lease aid to this country; sadly, the leader of this country during the war committed suicide in 1954. For 10 points each:
Name this South American nation led by Getúlio [“jeh-TOO-loh”] Vargas. Rio de Janeiro was this country’s capital until 1960.
In 1955, the Brazilian presidential candidate Juscelino Kubitschek ran on a slogan that promised to squeeze “fifty years of progress” into this many number of years. Beginning in the 1920s, the Soviet Union launched multiple economic development plans that were each supposed to last this many number of years.
Former Brazilian president João Goulart’s heart attack death in 1976 has been alleged to be an assassination as part of this pan-South American initiative of repression of leftist dissidents.
Brazil
five years (accept Five-year Plans)
Operation Condor &lt;Suh&gt;
George Carnarvon funded the expedition that located this man’s tomb. For 10 points each:
Name this 18th dynasty Egyptian pharaoh whose nearly intact tomb was discovered in 1922 by Howard Carter.
King Tut was the son of this pharaoh who unsuccessfully advocated for the monotheistic worship of the sun god Aten. His religious reforms were reversed soon after his death.
During his reign, Akhenaten moved the capital of his kingdom to this city. This archaeological site is the namesake of a collection of clay tablets that contain detailed correspondences between Egypt and Canaan.
Tutankhamun (or King Tut; or Tutankhaten)
Akhenaten (or Khuenaten; or Amenhotep IV)
Amarna (accept Amarna letters) &lt;Suh&gt;
This man was the first Catholic appointed to a presidential cabinet. For 10 points each:
Name this man who first served as Attorney General under Andrew Jackson and then later as the Supreme Court Chief Justice.
In this landmark Supreme Court case, Taney ruled that African Americans, whether free or slave, were not citizens. The case is named after an African American who unsuccessfully sued for his freedom.
In this case, Taney ruled that only Congress had the authority to suspend the writ of habeas corpus, a decision that President Lincoln completely ignored.
Roger B. Taney [“TAW-nee”]
Dred Scott v. Sanford
Ex parte Merryman &lt;Suh&gt;
At this man’s congressional hearing, several Democratic aides exhibited posters of Michael Flynn, Rick Gates, and other figures implicated in the Mueller investigation. For 10 points each:
Name this former FBI agent who was called to testify before the House Oversight and Judiciary Committees after anti-Trump texts to his mistress Lisa Page surfaced. He was fired by FBI deputy director David Bowdich in August 2018.
Trey Gowdy, a Congressman from this state, was among the lawmakers who grilled Strzok at his hearing. Henry McMaster defeated James Smith in this state’s 2018 gubernatorial election.
During his opening remarks, Strzok forcefully denounced the hearing as “another victory notch in [this leader’s] “belt.” This President of Russia discussed his country’s annexation of Crimea during a summit with President Trump in Helsinki.
Peter Strzok
South Carolina
Vladimir Putin &lt;R. Li&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about broken or ineffective treaties.
Neville Chamberlain declared “peace for our time” after signing the Munich Agreement that gave control of Sudetenland to this leader of Nazi Germany.
After being captured at the Battle of Pavia, this French monarch signed the 1526 Treaty of Madrid with Charles V. A few weeks later, however, he nullified the treaty and started the War of the League of Cognac [“KON-yak”].
This 1928 international agreement renounced the use of war as a means of conflict resolution. Named after the American Secretary of State and the French Foreign Minister at that time, this resolution is technically still in effect.
Adolf Hitler
Francis I of France (prompt on partial answer)
Kellogg–Briand Pact (or Pact of Paris; or General Treaty for Renunciation of War as an Instrument of National Policy) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions regarding political advertisements.
In this ad, a toddler picks petals off the namesake flower before being obliterated by a nuclear explosion. This controversial ad helped President Johnson win reelection over Barry Goldwater in 1964.
In 1988, the George H. W. Bush campaign featured a mugshot of this convicted murderer in an ad that many accused of appealing to racial tropes. Bush campaign manager Lee Atwater claimed that his goal was to make voters “wonder whether [this man] is Dukakis’ running mate.”
In this election year, the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth aired a series of ads aiming to tarnish a candidate’s military record. Howard Dean was ridiculed for his namesake “scream” after losing the Iowa caucuses in this year.
Daisy Girl (accept Peace, Little Girl)
Willie Horton
2004 &lt;R. Li&gt;
Aëtius of Amida attributed a recipe for perfumed soap to this ruler, while Paul of Aegina preserved alleged instructions of hers for dyeing and curling hair. For 10 points each:
Name this pharaoh of Egypt and the lover of Julius Caesar and Mark Antony who may have committed suicide via snakebite.
Cleopatra was the last ruler of this kingdom based in Egypt. Its namesake was a companion and historian of Alexander the Great.
Cleopatra gave birth to this son of Julius Caesar who was killed by Octavian following the advice of Arius Didymus, who said “Too many Caesars is not good.”
Cleopatra VII Philopator
Ptolemy I Soter (accept Ptolemaic Kingdom)
Caesarion (or Ptolemy XV Philopator Philometor Caesar) &lt;Suh&gt;
This man has promoted his support for public education with the slogan “yes to scholarships, no to hitmen.” For 10 points each:
Identify this politician and founder of the National Regeneration Movement, or MORENA. He has claimed that “hugs, not bullets” are necessary to resist drug violence in his country.
López Obrador is slated to take office as this country’s president in December 2018. In a recent speech, López Obrador asserted that “neither [this country] nor its people will be a piñata of any foreign government.”
In September 2018, the Peña Nieto administration concluded negotiations on this trade deal. While it has not yet been ratified, this pending trade deal is known as “NAFTA 2.0.”
Andrés Manuel López Obrador (prompt on partial answer; accept AMLO)
Mexico
United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (accept USMCA) &lt;R. Li&gt;
John C. Frémont covertly encouraged the rebellion that eventually formed this state. For 10 points each:
Name this state which existed as an unrecognized nation for 25 days in 1846. It seceded from Mexico in the Bear Flag Revolt and experienced a gold rush in 1848.
This unrecognized provisional state led by Brigham Young existed for nearly two years. Its name derives from the word for “honeybee” in the Book of Mormon.
This bioregion in the Pacific Northwest has intermittently experienced secessionist movements. Its proposed flag, the “Doug flag,” was created in 1994.
Republic of California
State of Deseret
Cascadia &lt;Suh&gt;
A prime minister of this empire, Gajah Mada, vowed to not eat any food with spices until he conquered all the islands surrounding him. For 10 points each:
Name this empire based on Java that reached the height of its power during the reign of Hayam Wuruk.
The Majapahit Empire was started by Raden Wijaya, who repelled the invading forces of this emperor. This man’s invasion force to Japan was destroyed by two typhoons now known as kamikaze.
Majapahit is the last major empire before the introduction of this religion to the Indonesian archipelago. To this day, this religion is the majority religion in Indonesia.
Majapahit Empire
Kublai Khan
Islam &lt;Suh&gt;
This term was first used by Henry of Huntingdon in his <em>Historia Anglorum</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this semi-fluid collection of seven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms that ruled Britain for nearly five centuries.
England rose out of this kingdom that was ruled by men like Alfred the Great. Alfred’s grandson, Æthelstan, is considered to be the first King of England.
The Heptarchy is considered to have started from the end of this empire’s rule in Britain. The Rescript of Honorius granted self-government to Britain because this empire was busy fighting the Visigoths at the time.
Heptarchy
Kingdom of Wessex
Roman Empire &lt;Suh&gt;
Franklin Pierce unsuccessfully tried to annex this island through the Ostend Manifesto. For 10 points each:
Name this largest Caribbean island that was often the target of filibusters. Jefferson Davis and Robert E. Lee declined offers to lead expeditions to this island.
This Venezuela-born adventurer was executed in Havana after an unsuccessful 1851 filibustering expedition. He designed the modern flag of Cuba.
Another filibuster was this American mercenary who briefly took over Nicaragua, Although his government was recognized by Franklin Pierce, he was soon ousted and executed by Honduran authorities.
Cuba
Narciso López
William Walker &lt;Suh&gt;
The Batalha Monastery was built to commemorate this battle. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1385 battle where John of Aviz defeated John I of Castile to preserve his country’s independence.
The Battle of Aljubarrota was a decisive victory for this nation that shares the Iberian peninsula with Spain.
Around 200 years after Aljubarrota, Portugal was briefly joined with Spain in a personal union under the rule of this king. While under this king’s rule, the Netherlands agitated for independence, thus launching the Eighty Years’ War.
Battle of Aljubarrota [“al-hoo-ba-roh-tah”]
Portugal
Philip II of Spain &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about wealthy American businessmen who also did philanthropy.
This co-founder of the Standard Oil Company is often considered to be the wealthiest American of all time. He also founded the University of Chicago and a namesake university in Manhattan.
This railroad magnate, nicknamed “Commodore,” owned the New York Central Railroad and names a university in Nashville, Tennessee.
This financier served as the Secretary of Treasury under President Hoover, but resigned his post after he faced impeachment charges. His art collection established the National Gallery of Art.
John D. Rockefeller (accept Rockefeller University)
Cornelius Vanderbilt (accept Vanderbilt University)
Andrew Mellon &lt;Suh&gt;
This economic bubble names a Noël Coward play. For 10 points each:
Name this eighteenth century economic bubble in Britain, caused by a namesake joint-stock company’s private assumption of the national debt.
The disgrace of many senior officials in the British government after the South Sea Bubble led by default to the rise of this politician whose government was dubbed the “Robinocracy.”
Robert Walpole is usually considered the first holder of this office currently held by Theresa May.
South Sea (Company) Bubble
Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Oxford [accept Sir Robert Walpole]
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom [accept PM; do not accept or prompt on “MP”] &lt;CL&gt;
This leader officially declared the return of imperial rule until 1868. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese emperor whose “restoration” ended the Tokugawa shogunate. His regnal name roughly translates to “Enlightened Rule.”
This document outlined a plan for the modernization of Japan during Meiji’s reign, and included the declaration that “[e]vil customs of the past shall be discontinued, and new customs shall be based on the just laws of nature.”
This assassination plot against Meiji led to many leftists’ arrests, because it was organized by socialist- anarchists. It shares its name with a historical crime of disloyalty against the state contrasted with a “petty” counterpart.
Emperor Meiji [accept Meiji Emperor; accept Meiji the Great; accept Meiji-tenno or Meiji-taitei; accept Mutsuhito]
Charter Oath [accept Imperial Oath of/in Five Articles; accept Gokajo no Goseimon]
High Treason Incident &lt;CL&gt;
According to most accounts, these people rode black horses while on duty. For 10 points each:
Identify these members of a political police force who also served as the personal guard for a certain sixteenth century leader. They sacked a city they suspected of contemplating defection to Lithuania during the Livonian War.
The oprichniki composed a force assembled by this tsar. This leader reigned shortly before the Time of Troubles and was succeeded by Feodor I.
One of the first challenges for Ivan the Terrible after his coronation was one of these events in Moscow in 1547. One of these disasters occurred in London in 1666, after which Christopher Wren rebuilt much of the city.
oprichniki [accept oprichniks]
Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan the Fearsome or Ivan IV Vasilyevich; accept Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]
great fires [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;CL&gt;
Shen Buhai was likely instrumental in enacting the ideas of this philosophical school. For 10 points each:
Identify this Asian school of political philosophy which ignored morality in favor of security and order. Like Daoism, this school emphasizes Wu wei, or non-action, an idea it applies in relation to the head of a government.
Legalism was a philosophical movement in this country. This country’s Warring States period included the Hundred Schools of Thought.
One of the most important Legalists after Shen Buhai was this philosopher and namesake of a work describing the ideas of previous Legalist thinkers. This man’s work influenced the governing philosophy of Qin Shi Huangdi.
Legalism [accept Faija; accept but otherwise do not reveal Chinese Legalism; accept Legalists]
China [begrudgingly accept People’s Republic of China or PRC; accept Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China” or “ROC”]
Han Fei [prompt on partial; accept Han Fei Zi or the Han Feizi] &lt;CL&gt;
A few thousand miles from the U.S. state of Colorado, a civil war in this country was fought between the “Red” Colorados and the “White” National Party. For 10 points each:
Name this country once known as Cisplatine Province, which has its capital at Montevideo.
Uruguay allied with Brazil in the War of the Triple Alliance, which was then led by this second and last Emperor, known as the “Magnanimous,” who was overthrown in 1889 and ended slavery.
Pedro II was a member of this last ruling house of Portugal and Brazil. Other members of this house include Manuel II, who was overthrown from the Portuguese throne in 1910.
Oriental Republic of Uruguay [accept República Oriental del Uruguay]
Dom Pedro II [prompt on Pedro]
House of Braganza &lt;BL&gt;
The Fianna (“fi-na”) was a major supporter of this rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name this 1916 anti-British rebellion organized by the IRB which began on a namesake holiday and was centered at the General Post Office. It was defeated by 16,000 British soldiers after a week.
The Easter Rising was fought in Dublin for the independence of this country.
This man was the commander-in-chief of the pro-treaty forces in the Irish Civil War and was killed in an ambush in 1922. Bloody Sunday was a retaliation against actions taken by this leader.
Easter Rising [or Easter Rebellion; accept Éiri Amach na Cásca; prompt on partial]
Ireland [accept Éire; accept Airlann]
Michael Collins [or Mícheál Ó Coileáin] &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the election of 1892.
This president was elected to the second of his non-consecutive terms in 1892 and was the only Democratic president from the end of the Civil War until Woodrow Wilson. The Pullman Strike occurred during his presidency.
This third party nominated James B. Weaver in 1892, who won five western states. This party advocated for the rights of farmers and urban workers.
The Populists held their first convention in 1892, where they wrote this platform. It declared “every dollar taken from industry without an equivalent is robbery” and called for direct election of Senators and graduated income tax.
(Stephen) Grover Cleveland
Populist Party [or People’s Party; accept Populists or Populism]
The Omaha Platform [prompt on the National People’s Party Platform] &lt;DM&gt;
Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold carried out one of these attacks in Columbine. For 10 points each:
Identify these events which have also affected Sandy Hook and Virginia Tech and often result in the deaths of students and teachers.
On Valentine’s Day in 2018, a school shooting occurred at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in this small Florida city. Students who attend school in this city organized a March 24 national “March for Our Lives.”
In the wake of the Parkland school shooting, this organization dedicated to ending gun violence came under fire from the Washington Post for its misleading statistic of 18 school shootings in 2018 as of mid-February.
school shootings [accept equivalents; prompt on mass shootings or equivalents; prompt on gun violence or equivalents]
Parkland
Everytown for Gun Safety &lt;CL&gt;
In 1987, this entrepreneur’s namesake company merged with Waterford Crystal. For 10 points each:
Name this major figure in the development of modern consumerism, who used tactics like “buy one, get one free” promotions and travelling salesmen to sell his pottery.
Josiah Wedgwood was an advocate for this cause, which his work Am I Not a Man And a Brother? supported. Advocates for this cause succeeded in the United States with the ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment.
It’s not Catherine, but Wedgwood made his Queen’s Ware line for a monarch with this name. Another woman with this first name assassinated Jean-Paul Marat.
Josiah Wedgwood
abolition of slavery [or abolitionism; accept obvious equivalents like ending slavery; do not accept or prompt on “slavery”]
Charlotte [accept Queen Charlotte or Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz; accept Marie-Anne Charlotte de Corday d’Armont] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
This movement was begun by Tito, Nehru, Sukarno, and Nkrumah. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of states not affiliated with the U.S. or the U.S.S.R. in the Cold War.
This Indonesian conference was held in a namesake city by Sukarno in 1955 to promote African and Asian cooperation and prevent the spread of colonialism, including attempts at dominance by the USSR.
This country was represented at the Bandung Conference by its first premier, Zhou Enlai, who later moderated Mao’s policies during the Cultural Revolution.
Non-Aligned Movement [accept NAM]
Bandung Conference [accept Afro-Asian Conference or Asian-African Conference]
People’s Republic of China [accept PRC; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China”] &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some Native American groups outside the Five Nations who spoke Iroquoian languages.
Sequoyah invented a syllabary for this tribe's Iroquoian language, and Elias Boudinot published his Phoenix in it. Speakers of this tribe’s language left Georgia and North Carolina during the Trail of Tears.
This tribe joined the Five Nations in 1722 following their namesake war against the British in North Carolina. This group’s addition resulted in the modern-day Iroquois League having six nations.
These two Iroquoian speaking confederations that name Great Lakes were destroyed by the Iroquois League in the Beaver War. Name both.
Cherokee [accept Aniyvwiyai; accept Tsalagi]
Tuscarora [accept Skarure; prompt on hemp gatherers or shirt wearers and equivalent]
Huron and Erie &lt;DM&gt;
One policy by this businessman sparked a 1963 sit-in protest in Bowie, Maryland. For 10 points each:
Name this businessman who transported materials from Blue Lake, California for building construction in the Northeast, including locations in Willingboro Township and Bucks County. He operated his family’s company with his brother, Alfred.
Levitt became notorious for his exclusionary real estate development in these places, the destination of “white flight” in the 1950s.
This informal bank policy, named after color-coded maps of classes of neighborhoods, excluded blacks and other racial minorities from taking out loans to buy homes in suburban areas.
William (Jaird) Levitt
suburbs [or suburban towns; accept suburbia; prompt on towns or developments]
redlining [accept word forms] &lt;BL/GA&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about that time Jacques Parizeau (“pa-ree-ZO”) blamed the results of a referendum on “money and ethnic votes.”
The referendum which sparked Parizeau’s comment took place in this country and was the second regarding the independence of this country’s province Quebec.
Parizeau made his comment in this Canadian city. This city hosted Expo 67 during the Quiet Revolution, and also hosted one iteration of the Olympics during the 1970s.
This man was Canada’s Prime Minister at the time of Parizeau’s remark, having succeeded Kim Campbell in 1993, and was the subject of an assassination attempt after the referendum.
Canada
Montreal
(Joseph Jacques) Jean Chrétien &lt;DM/CL&gt;
Some troops involved in this battle were stationed near the church of St. Ninian. For 10 points each:
Name this 1314 battle in which Edward II failed to relieve a siege on Stirling Castle, losing to the troops of Robert the Bruce.
The Battle of Bannockburn took place during a war for this country’s independence. Besides Robert the Bruce, heroes of this constituent country of the United Kingdom include William Wallace, and its capital is Edinburgh.
Although Robert the Bruce’s corpse is buried at Dunfermline Abbey, this thing of his, which was kept for a time by James Douglas, is buried at Melrose Abbey.
Battle of Bannockburn
Scotland [accept Alba]
heart &lt;CL&gt;
This thinker particularly had problems with a statement by Johann Tetzel about the sale of indulgences. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian thinker who kickstarted the Protestant Reformation and believed that one’s fate was determined by faith alone.
According to legend, Luther started the Reformation by nailing this document to doors of churches in Wittenberg. It accused the clergy of corruption and distracting Christians from repentance.
Luther sent his Theses to Albrecht von Brandenburg, who used Tetzel’s indulgence sales to repay his debt for rebuilding St. Peter’s Basilica and was archbishop of this city. The B42 text was created in this city in the 1450s.
Martin Luther [prompt on Martin; do not accept or prompt on “Saint Martin”]
95 Theses [accept Disputation on the Power of Indulgences; prompt on Theses]
Mainz [accept Mayence] &lt;CL&gt;
He “found the crown of France in the gutter.” For 10 points each:
Name this French general and Emperor, who conquered much of Europe with his Grande Armée before it was largely destroyed in a disastrous invasion of Russia.
Napoleon signed the Concordat of 1801 with this Pope, reconciling the French government and the Catholic Church. Napoleon also took his crown from this Pope’s hands and coronated himself.
Napoleon’s first abdication took place in this French town, the namesake of an earlier edict which revoked the Edict of Nantes. A treaty named after this town signed by Napoleon in 1814 would have divided Portugal in three.
Napoleon I [or Napoleon Bonaparte; prompt on Bonaparte]
Pius VII
Fontainebleau &lt;BL&gt;
One of the Torture Memos was leaked shortly after revelations of events at this site. For 10 points each:
Name this prison, one of many prisons run by General Janis (“YA-nis”) Karpinski. Charles Graner and Lynndie England were imprisoned for human rights abuses at this prison.
Abu Ghraib, now known as the Baghdad Central Prison, is located in this country, which was once led by Saddam Hussein and which the U.S. military invaded in 2003.
Another controversy during the Iraq War occurred when George W. Bush made this speech saying that major combat operations in Iraq would be over, named for the controversial namesake banner behind Bush as he spoke.
Abu Ghraib prison [prompt on but do not otherwise reveal Baghdad Central Prison; prompt on Father of Raven prison; prompt on Place of Ravens]
Republic of Iraq [accept al-Iraq]
the Mission Accomplished speech [accept the speech on the USS Abraham Lincoln] &lt;DM&gt;
In March 2018, President Trump said that another world leader had just assumed this role, but that perhaps the United States will “have to give that a shot some day.” For 10 points each:
Identify this title, implicitly held by a certain world leader starting in February 2018. One person was given this title after dying in 1994.
This world leader recently consolidated power in China, effectively making a move to become President for Life. He is also the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China.
Partially in order to target China, in 2018, President Trump announced that he would enact some of this type of policy. Many pundits think Gary Cohn resigned due to Trump’s interest in this type of policy.
president for life [accept Eternal President or Eternal Leader; prompt on descriptions; do not accept or prompt on “President”]
Xi Jinping
tariffs [prompt on description; prompt on import taxes; prompt on trade policy and equivalents] &lt;CL&gt;
This man was born north of the Chimor empire of Mincanchaman. For 10 points each:
Name this Sapa, whose generals Quisquis and Calcuchimac helped him defeat his brother Washkar. He became a potential heir after the appointed heir died in a 1525 smallpox epidemic and was ransomed for rooms of precious metals.
Atahualpa was the final ruler of this empire, which controlled the Western coast of South America in the 1500s. It was conquered by conquistadors led by Francisco Pizarro.
This ninth Sapa Inca began the Incan expansion after defeating the Chanka invaders. He renamed himself the “Earth-Shaker” due to his military might.
Atahualpa
Incan Empire [accept Tawantinsuyu]
Pachakutiq Inca Yupanki [accept Cusi Yupanki, do not accept or prompt on any non-underlined names] &lt;DM&gt;
One leader of this empire built a namesake library during the 600s BCE. For 10 points each:
Name this empire once ruled by Ashurbanipal. Nebuchadnezzar retook Babylon from this empire centered at Ashur and Nineveh.
These people from Iran overthrew Assyria with the Babylonians and subsequently were defeated in 550 BC by the Achaemenid Empire. These people were led by Cyaxares and Astyages in northern Persia, where they had a capital at Ecbatana.
This leader led the Achaemenid victory over the Medians. According to the Bible, this leader liberated Jews held in Babylon.
Neo-Assyrian Empire
Medes [accept Medians; accept Mada]
Cyrus the Great [accept Cyrus II of Persia; accept Cyrus the Elder; prompt on Cyrus alone] &lt;DM&gt;
This man was the first man to have “an empire on which the sun never set.” For 10 points each:
Name this Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain who fought Protestant princes within his territory in the Schmalkaldic War, abdicated his throne in favor of his brother Ferdinand, and sponsored the journey of Ferdinand Magellan.
Charles V captured his great nemesis Francis I of France in this decisive 1525 victory near Milan with the help of superior firearms technology.
A previous war in Italy involved the League of Cambrai, which had formed to stop the increasing power of this trading canal-filled city-state headed by a Doge. Charles V named Venezuela for this city-state.
Charles V [accept Charles I of Spain; accept Carlos, Carlo, Karl, Carolus, and Karel in place of “Charles”; prompt on Charles, Carlos, Carlo, Karl, Carolus, or Karel alone]
Battle of Pavia
Republic of Venice &lt;BL&gt;
For 10 points each, name these members of U.S. organizations called the Progressive Party.
In 1912, this man led the first Progressive Party, nicknamed the “Bull Moose” Party, to the best third party finish in a general election. Eleven years earlier, he had become president upon William McKinley’s assassination.
This Wisconsin senator ran for president in 1924 as a Progressive candidate and notably forced the U.S. not to join the League of Nations. Joseph McCarthy later became a senator by defeating this man’s son.
This former vice president ran for president in 1948 as a Progressive. His campaign advocated for ending the Cold War, ending segregation, and providing national healthcare.
Theodore Roosevelt Jr. [accept Teddy Roosevelt; prompt on partial answer]
Robert (Marion) La Follette Sr. [prompt on Fighting Bob]
Henry (Agard) Wallace [prompt on Wallace] &lt;DM&gt;
This position was at the top of the cursus honorum. For 10 points each:
Name this position in the Roman Republic. Two men jointly held this position at any given time, though they took turns holding control of the military, or imperium.
A man of this name, along with Collatinus, Lucretius, and Valerius, helped overthrow the Roman monarchy and became one of the first consuls. Another man with this name led the conspiracy to kill Julius Caesar with Cassius.
One of the precipitating factors for the overthrow of the Roman monarchy was Sextus Tarquinius’s assault of this woman. She was married to Collatinus.
consuls
Junius Brutus [accept Lucius Junius Brutus or Marcus Junius Brutus; begrudgingly accept Brute]
Lucretia [accept Lucrece] &lt;DM/CL&gt;
. In the aftermath of this event, Samuel Untermyer notably questioned one of its major figures. For 10 points each:
Name this stock market crisis, which was sparked by a failed attempt to corner the copper market and led to the downfall of the Knickerbocker Trust Company.
The effects of the Panic of 1907 were mitigated by the efforts of this banker, who locked more than a hundred bank officials in his library until a deal was struck to save the Lincoln Trust Company.
Less than a year after J.P. Morgan died, this institution was created to help ensure financial stability. It is currently chaired by Steve Powell, who recently replaced Janet Yellen, and is responsible for setting interest rates.
Panic of 1907 [accept 1907 Bankers’ Panic; prompt on Bankers’ Panic alone; prompt on 1907 crisis and equivalents]
John Pierpont “J.P.” Morgan Sr.
The Federal Reserve (System) &lt;BL&gt;
This man named his land holdings in California “New Helvetia” and threatened to raise the French flag over his estate during the Mexican-American War. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss immigrant who established a namesake log-cutting facility in California.
A discovery at Sutter’s Mill lead to this event, which brought 300,000 prospectors to California.
Dennis Kearney opposed these people’s involvement in the California Gold Rush. At least 28 of these people were killed in the Rock Springs Massacre.
John Augustus Sutter Sr. [accept Johann August Suter]
1849 California Gold Rush [accept 1849 Gold Rush; prompt on gold rush]
Chinese immigrants [or Chinese-Americans or people from China or miners from China; prompt on Asian immigrants or Asian-Americans or people from Asia or miners from Asia] &lt;AJ&gt;
This man stated that freedom was a “principle for which [he was] prepared to die.” For 10 points each:
Name this activist, revolutionary, and first black South African President. He was imprisoned on Robben Island for 27 years, and he also led the African National Congress.
Mandela founded a militant anti-apartheid group named for one of these weapons “of the nation” in the wake of the 1960 Sharpeville massacre. The assegai is a type of this weapon.
This former Deputy President, labor leader, and modern member of the African National Congress replaced Jacob Zuma as President of South Africa in February 2018.
Nelson (Rolihlahla) Mandela
spears [or umkhonto; accept Spear of the Nation or Umkhonto we Sizwe; prompt on hasta; prompt on az-zagayah; prompt on zagaglias; prompt on lancegays; prompt on javelins; prompt on poles]
Cyril Ramaphosa &lt;BL&gt;
This man was appointed to his current post by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. For 10 points each:
Identify this special counsel who is currently leading an investigation into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
Findings from Mueller’s investigation led to the indictment of this man, who was placed under house arrest. He had previously served as President Trump’s campaign chairman.
Mueller’s investigation team is looking into allegations made by this British intelligence officer, who was contracted by Fusion GPS to participate in opposition research during the election. His allegations include the infamous “pee tape” story.
Robert “Bob” Swan Mueller III
Paul John Manafort Jr.
Christopher (David) Steele [accept Steele dossier] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some British cities which have been around since Roman times.
This city in Somerset was known as Aquae Sulis in Roman times. The structure which names this city contains a caldarium and a frigidarium and was built on a natural spring.
This city, founded during Roman times as Eboracum, was home to the famous 8th century scholar Alcuin, who was an important figure in Charlemagne’s court at Aachen.
This walled city on the River Dee was called Deva (“DAY-wuh”) in Roman times. Its name is also part of the names of several other cities such as the administrative center of Dorset.
Bath
York [do not accept or prompt on “Yorkshire”; do not accept or prompt on “New York” or “Old York”]
Chester [accept Caer] &lt;CO&gt;
This man gave control of his army to a compatriot after the conference at Guayaquil. For 10 points each:
Name this general who was key in securing the independence of Chile at clashes like the Battle of Maipú. He used gauchos to win independence in his home country and briefly served as the Governor of Cuyo.
San Martín was from this modern country within what was once the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. Its capital is Buenos Aires.
After San Martín gave his troops to Bolivar, the newly combined forces helped liberate Peru by winning this 1824 battle named for a city in the modern Huamanga Province. This battle’s result led to the surrender of the main royalist resistance.
José (Francisco) de San Martín (y Matorras)
Argentina [accept the Argentine Republic or República Argentina]
Battle of Ayacucho &lt;DM&gt;
Contrary to a statement President Trump made about cancelling his trip to the U.K., the decision about relocating an embassy in this city was made by President George W. Bush. For 10 points each:
Identify this British capital city. Boris Johnson was the mayor of this city from 2008 to 2016.
This Labour Party Mayor of London is the first Muslim mayor of a major Western capital. In a jab at Trump, he called the White Pendragons who tried to perform a “citizens’ arrest” on him in January “very stable geniuses.”
Another instance of the word “stable” in British politics was this candidate’s 2017 manifesto: “strong, not entirely stable leadership.” This Gremloid candidate was most recently played by Jonathan David Harvey.
London
Sadiq (Aman) Khan
Lord Buckethead &lt;CL&gt;
This kingdom was defeated in 1220 and 1221 by Subotai and Jebe. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom which reached its greatest extent under Queen Tamar the Great. David IV conquered its lands from the Seljuks, and Joseph Stalin was born in what is now the country that shares a name with this kingdom.
Prior to the Mongol attack, Georgia had intended to send its troops to help the fifth of these military campaigns, which sought to end Muslim control of the Near East. The third of them pitted Richard I against Saladin.
Prior to the establishment of the Kingdom of Georgia, a region east of Colchis and north of Armenia was ruled by a kingdom, then a principality, of this name. It shares its name with a modern European airline.
Kingdom of Georgia [accept Sakartvelo]
crusades
Iberia [or Kartli] &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the use of muskets in the years just after their invention.
The Maori, the native people of this country, fought the devastating Musket Wars among themselves upon being supplied muskets by the British.
This leader won the Battle of Nagashino using Portuguese-supplied arquebus muskets, enabling him to solidify his control over much of central Japan. He was assassinated and succeeded by his best general.
This Hungarian military force was unusually well-equipped with arquebus muskets, with around a quarter of soldiers carrying them. Under the leadership of King Matthias Corvinus, it took much of Austria in the late 1400s.
New Zealand [accept Aotearoa]
Oda Nobunaga [prompt on partial answer]
Black Army [accept Black Legion or Black Regiment; prompt on Black or Blacks alone] &lt;DM&gt;
The clash alternately called the Battle of Jupiter Inlet or the First Battle of Loxahatchee occurred during this war. For 10 points each:
Name this war in which one group was led by a man born as Billy Powell who was later given the name Osceola. This war began a few years after the signing of the Treaty of Payne’s Landing.
Earlier, during the First Seminole War, this future U.S. president had invaded Spanish Florida. He also defeated the Creek at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend and the British at the Battle of New Orleans.
This leader was the namesake of a massacre during the Second Seminole War, in which he and all but three of his men were killed. Miami’s county is partially named for this man.
Second Seminole War [prompt on Seminole War; prompt on but otherwise do not reveal Florida War]
Andrew Jackson
Francis (Langhorne) Dade &lt;DM/CL&gt;
In this system, one of the namesake things was left unplanted yearly. For 10 points each:
Name this European agricultural system introduced in the Middle Ages. It replaced a less efficient system in which half of a farm lay fallow at a time.
This modern country was one of the first to replace the three-field system by planting crops such as turnips in the fallow fields. It further boosted productivity with land reclamation projects, since much of it lies below sea level.
This man was the father of the most recent agricultural revolution, boosting productivity in South Asia with new wheat varieties. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1960 and is credited with saving one billion people from starvation.
three-field system [accept equivalents]
Netherlands [accept Nederland; do not accept or prompt on “Holland”]
Norman (Ernest) Borlaug &lt;BL&gt;
. This legislation instructs the United States Civil Service Commission to appoint a chief examiner to create standardized examinations. For 10 points each:
Name this act, which was passed to ensure that civil service officers would be appointed based on merit.
The Pendleton Act was created after the 1881 assassination of this president by addled, disgruntled job-seeker Charles Guiteau.
Shortly after the assassination, Guiteau announced that he was a member of this Republican faction which opposed civil service reform.
Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act [prompt on Civil Service Reform Act]
James A(bram) Garfield
Stalwarts &lt;CO&gt;
This law was passed by John Quincy Adams and set a certain rate to 38%. For 10 points each:
Name this law which was amended in a compromise in 1832 that was seen as insufficient by many in the South. It sparked an “Exposition and Protest” by the sitting vice president.
John Calhoun from this state wrote that “Exposition and Protest,” which “nullified” the tariffs of 1828 and 1832. This state was the first to secede and is home to Fort Sumter.
Expressing his belief in nullification, Calhoun stated: “the union, next to [this concept], most dear.” In another speech during the Nullification Crisis, a man noted that this concept and another concept were “one and inseparable, now and forever.”
Tariff of Abominations [or Tariff of 1828]
South Carolina
liberty [do not accept or prompt on anything else] &lt;DM&gt;
Shen Buhai was likely instrumental in enacting the ideas of this philosophical school. For 10 points each:
Identify this Asian school of political philosophy which ignored morality in favor of security and order. Like Daoism, this school emphasizes Wu wei, or non-action, an idea it applies in relation to the head of a government.
Legalism was a philosophical movement in this country. This country’s Warring States period included the Hundred Schools of Thought.
One of the most important Legalists after Shen Buhai was this philosopher and namesake of a work describing the ideas of previous Legalist thinkers. This man’s work influenced the governing philosophy of Qin Shi Huangdi.
Legalism [accept Faija; accept but otherwise do not reveal Chinese Legalism; accept Legalists]
China [begrudgingly accept People’s Republic of China or PRC; accept Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China” or “ROC”]
Han Fei [prompt on partial; accept Han Fei Zi or the Han Feizi] &lt;CL&gt;
The Fianna (“fi-na”) was a major supporter of this rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name this 1916 anti-British rebellion organized by the IRB which began on a namesake holiday and was centered at the General Post Office. It was defeated by 16,000 British soldiers after a week.
The Easter Rising was fought in Dublin for the independence of this country.
This man was the commander-in-chief of the pro-treaty forces in the Irish Civil War and was killed in an ambush in 1922. Bloody Sunday was a retaliation against actions taken by this leader.
Easter Rising [or Easter Rebellion; accept Éiri Amach na Cásca; prompt on partial]
Ireland [accept Éire; accept Airlann]
Michael Collins [or Mícheál Ó Coileáin] &lt;DM&gt;
This figure founded a party with a name which translates to “Rally of the French People.” For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the French Fifth Republic and leader of the Free French during World War II.
De Gaulle’s relationship with Winston Churchill, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Joseph Stalin was frosty, in part because they never invited him to conferences like this 1945 one about peace after the war, hosted in the USSR.
However, after the Yalta Conference, Roosevelt invited de Gaulle to meet him in this city, though de Gaulle dramatically declined. In 1943, de Gaulle met General and future President Eisenhower in this non-European city.
Charles (André Joseph Marie) de Gaulle
Yalta Conference [accept the Crimean conference; prompt on the Argonaut Conference]
Algiers [accept Alger] &lt;CL&gt;
Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold carried out one of these attacks in Columbine. For 10 points each:
Identify these events which have also affected Sandy Hook and Virginia Tech and often result in the deaths of students and teachers.
On Valentine’s Day in 2018, a school shooting occurred at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in this small Florida city. Students who attend school in this city organized a March 24 national “March for Our Lives.”
In the wake of the Parkland school shooting, this organization dedicated to ending gun violence came under fire from the Washington Post for its misleading statistic of 18 school shootings in 2018 as of mid-February.
school shootings [accept equivalents; prompt on mass shootings or equivalents; prompt on gun violence or equivalents]
Parkland
Everytown for Gun Safety &lt;CL&gt;
Get wrecked. For 10 points each, name some ships which did.
This British battlecruiser, considered the pride of the Royal Navy, was sunk by the German battleship Bismarck and cruiser Prinz Eugen in 1941 due to thin deck armor and a magazine explosion.
Many believe that British authorities deliberately baited a German submarine into sinking this ship by placing arms aboard. Either way, the death of 128 Americans aboard helped bring the US into the First World War.
Japanese forces believed they had sunk this ship on three different occasions, but it survived through the end of the war. It shares its name with the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier and a fictional starship captained by Jean Luc Picard.
HMS Hood
RMS Lusitania
USS Enterprise &lt;BL&gt;
In 1987, this entrepreneur’s namesake company merged with Waterford Crystal. For 10 points each:
Name this major figure in the development of modern consumerism, who used tactics like “buy one, get one free” promotions and travelling salesmen to sell his pottery.
Josiah Wedgwood was an advocate for this cause, which his work Am I Not a Man And a Brother? supported. Advocates for this cause succeeded in the United States with the ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment.
It’s not Catherine, but Wedgwood made his Queen’s Ware line for a monarch with this name. Another woman with this first name assassinated Jean-Paul Marat.
Josiah Wedgwood
abolition of slavery [or abolitionism; accept obvious equivalents like ending slavery; do not accept or prompt on “slavery”]
Charlotte [accept Queen Charlotte or Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz; accept Marie-Anne Charlotte de Corday d’Armont] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
In the Confederate retreat from this battle, J. E. B. (“Jeb”) Stuart embarked on his famous Chambersburg Raid into Pennsylvania. For 10 points each:
Name this battle won by the Union, the bloodiest single-day battle in the Civil War, which occurred at a namesake town in Maryland following George McClellan’s discovery of Robert E. Lee’s battle plans.
This Confederate general rushed to Sharpsburg the day before the battle, following his capture of Harpers Ferry. Earlier, this general had gained renown for his actions at the First Battle of Bull Run.
The 5000-man IX (“Ninth”) Army Corps tried to cross Antietam Creek at this location but were repulsed by only 450 Georgian soldiers for several hours, only crossing following significant reinforcements.
Battle of Antietam [accept Battle of Sharpsburg]
Thomas (Jonathan) “Stonewall” Jackson
Burnside’s Bridge [or Rohrbach’s Bridge or the Lower Bridge; prompt on partial answer] &lt;DM&gt;
This movement was begun by Tito, Nehru, Sukarno, and Nkrumah. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of states not affiliated with the U.S. or the U.S.S.R. in the Cold War.
This Indonesian conference was held in a namesake city by Sukarno in 1955 to promote African and Asian cooperation and prevent the spread of colonialism, including attempts at dominance by the USSR.
This country was represented at the Bandung Conference by its first premier, Zhou Enlai, who later moderated Mao’s policies during the Cultural Revolution.
Non-Aligned Movement [accept NAM]
Bandung Conference [accept Afro-Asian Conference or Asian-African Conference]
People’s Republic of China [accept PRC; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China”] &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some Native American groups outside the Five Nations who spoke Iroquoian languages.
Sequoyah invented a syllabary for this tribe's Iroquoian language, and Elias Boudinot published his Phoenix in it. Speakers of this tribe’s language left Georgia and North Carolina during the Trail of Tears.
This tribe joined the Five Nations in 1722 following their namesake war against the British in North Carolina. This group’s addition resulted in the modern-day Iroquois League having six nations.
These two Iroquoian speaking confederations that name Great Lakes were destroyed by the Iroquois League in the Beaver War. Name both.
Cherokee [accept Aniyvwiyai; accept Tsalagi]
Tuscarora [accept Skarure; prompt on hemp gatherers or shirt wearers and equivalent]
Huron and Erie &lt;DM&gt;
One policy by this businessman sparked a 1963 sit-in protest in Bowie, Maryland. For 10 points each:
Name this businessman who transported materials from Blue Lake, California for building construction in the Northeast, including locations in Willingboro Township and Bucks County. He operated his family’s company with his brother, Alfred.
Levitt became notorious for his exclusionary real estate development in these places, the destination of “white flight” in the 1950s.
This informal bank policy, named after color-coded maps of classes of neighborhoods, excluded blacks and other racial minorities from taking out loans to buy homes in suburban areas.
William (Jaird) Levitt
suburbs [or suburban towns; accept suburbia; prompt on towns or developments]
redlining [accept word forms] &lt;BL/GA&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about that time Jacques Parizeau (“pa-ree-ZO”) blamed the results of a referendum on “money and ethnic votes.”
The referendum which sparked Parizeau’s comment took place in this country and was the second regarding the independence of this country’s province Quebec.
Parizeau made his comment in this Canadian city. This city hosted Expo 67 during the Quiet Revolution, and also hosted one iteration of the Olympics during the 1970s.
This man was Canada’s Prime Minister at the time of Parizeau’s remark, having succeeded Kim Campbell in 1993, and was the subject of an assassination attempt after the referendum.
Canada
Montreal
(Joseph Jacques) Jean Chrétien &lt;DM/CL&gt;
Some troops involved in this battle were stationed near the church of St. Ninian. For 10 points each:
Name this 1314 battle in which Edward II failed to relieve a siege on Stirling Castle, losing to the troops of Robert the Bruce.
The Battle of Bannockburn took place during a war for this country’s independence. Besides Robert the Bruce, heroes of this constituent country of the United Kingdom include William Wallace, and its capital is Edinburgh.
Although Robert the Bruce’s corpse is buried at Dunfermline Abbey, this thing of his, which was kept for a time by James Douglas, is buried at Melrose Abbey.
Battle of Bannockburn
Scotland [accept Alba]
heart &lt;CL&gt;
This thinker particularly had problems with a statement by Johann Tetzel about the sale of indulgences. For 10 points each:
Name this Christian thinker who kickstarted the Protestant Reformation and believed that one’s fate was determined by faith alone.
According to legend, Luther started the Reformation by nailing this document to doors of churches in Wittenberg. It accused the clergy of corruption and distracting Christians from repentance.
Luther sent his Theses to Albrecht von Brandenburg, who used Tetzel’s indulgence sales to repay his debt for rebuilding St. Peter’s Basilica and was archbishop of this city. The B42 text was created in this city in the 1450s.
Martin Luther [prompt on Martin; do not accept or prompt on “Saint Martin”]
95 Theses [accept Disputation on the Power of Indulgences; prompt on Theses]
Mainz [accept Mayence] &lt;CL&gt;
He “found the crown of France in the gutter.” For 10 points each:
Name this French general and Emperor, who conquered much of Europe with his Grande Armée before it was largely destroyed in a disastrous invasion of Russia.
Napoleon signed the Concordat of 1801 with this Pope, reconciling the French government and the Catholic Church. Napoleon also took his crown from this Pope’s hands and coronated himself.
Napoleon’s first abdication took place in this French town, the namesake of an earlier edict which revoked the Edict of Nantes. A treaty named after this town signed by Napoleon in 1814 would have divided Portugal in three.
Napoleon I [or Napoleon Bonaparte; prompt on Bonaparte]
Pius VII
Fontainebleau &lt;BL&gt;
One of the Torture Memos was leaked shortly after revelations of events at this site. For 10 points each:
Name this prison, one of many prisons run by General Janis (“YA-nis”) Karpinski. Charles Graner and Lynndie England were imprisoned for human rights abuses at this prison.
Abu Ghraib, now known as the Baghdad Central Prison, is located in this country, which was once led by Saddam Hussein and which the U.S. military invaded in 2003.
Another controversy during the Iraq War occurred when George W. Bush made this speech saying that major combat operations in Iraq would be over, named for the controversial namesake banner behind Bush as he spoke.
Abu Ghraib prison [prompt on but do not otherwise reveal Baghdad Central Prison; prompt on Father of Raven prison; prompt on Place of Ravens]
Republic of Iraq [accept al-Iraq]
the Mission Accomplished speech [accept the speech on the USS Abraham Lincoln] &lt;DM&gt;
Get wrecked. For 10 points each, name some ships which did.
This British battlecruiser, considered the pride of the Royal Navy, was sunk by the German battleship Bismarck and cruiser Prinz Eugen in 1941 due to thin deck armor and a magazine explosion.
Many believe that British authorities deliberately baited a German submarine into sinking this ship by placing arms aboard. Either way, the death of 128 Americans aboard helped bring the US into the First World War.
Japanese forces believed they had sunk this ship on three different occasions, but it survived through the end of the war. It shares its name with the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier and a fictional starship captained by Jean Luc Picard.
HMS Hood
RMS Lusitania
USS Enterprise &lt;BL&gt;
In March 2018, President Trump said that another world leader had just assumed this role, but that perhaps the United States will “have to give that a shot some day.” For 10 points each:
Identify this title, implicitly held by a certain world leader starting in February 2018. One person was given this title after dying in 1994.
This world leader recently consolidated power in China, effectively making a move to become President for Life. He is also the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China.
Partially in order to target China, in 2018, President Trump announced that he would enact some of this type of policy. Many pundits think Gary Cohn resigned due to Trump’s interest in this type of policy.
president for life [accept Eternal President or Eternal Leader; prompt on descriptions; do not accept or prompt on “President”]
Xi Jinping
tariffs [prompt on description; prompt on import taxes; prompt on trade policy and equivalents] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about John Murray, the 4th Earl of Dunmore.
Lord Dunmore was the last British governor of this colony, where he commanded troops at the Battle of Kemp’s Landing in Princess Anne County. George Mason was a delegate from this state at the Constitutional Convention.
Lord Dunmore issued Dunmore’s Proclamation, which ensured freedom to these people if they fought for the crown in the Revolutionary War.
Lord Dunmore fought a war against these Native Americans, as well as the Mingo. One later leader of these people temporarily lived among the Chickamauga in the South.
Virginia
slaves [or enslaved people]
Shawnee [accept Shaawanwaki; accept Shawanoki; accept Shaawanowi lenaweeki] &lt;CO&gt;
This man was born north of the Chimor empire of Mincanchaman. For 10 points each:
Name this Sapa, whose generals Quisquis and Calcuchimac helped him defeat his brother Washkar. He became a potential heir after the appointed heir died in a 1525 smallpox epidemic and was ransomed for rooms of precious metals.
Atahualpa was the final ruler of this empire, which controlled the Western coast of South America in the 1500s. It was conquered by conquistadors led by Francisco Pizarro.
This ninth Sapa Inca began the Incan expansion after defeating the Chanka invaders. He renamed himself the “Earth-Shaker” due to his military might.
Atahualpa
Incan Empire [accept Tawantinsuyu]
Pachakutiq Inca Yupanki [accept Cusi Yupanki, do not accept or prompt on any non-underlined names] &lt;DM&gt;
One leader of this empire built a namesake library during the 600s BCE. For 10 points each:
Name this empire once ruled by Ashurbanipal. Nebuchadnezzar retook Babylon from this empire centered at Ashur and Nineveh.
These people from Iran overthrew Assyria with the Babylonians and subsequently were defeated in 550 BC by the Achaemenid Empire. These people were led by Cyaxares and Astyages in northern Persia, where they had a capital at Ecbatana.
This leader led the Achaemenid victory over the Medians. According to the Bible, this leader liberated Jews held in Babylon.
Neo-Assyrian Empire
Medes [accept Medians; accept Mada]
Cyrus the Great [accept Cyrus II of Persia; accept Cyrus the Elder; prompt on Cyrus alone] &lt;DM&gt;
This man was the first man to have “an empire on which the sun never set.” For 10 points each:
Name this Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain who fought Protestant princes within his territory in the Schmalkaldic War, abdicated his throne in favor of his brother Ferdinand, and sponsored the journey of Ferdinand Magellan.
Charles V captured his great nemesis Francis I of France in this decisive 1525 victory near Milan with the help of superior firearms technology.
A previous war in Italy involved the League of Cambrai, which had formed to stop the increasing power of this trading canal-filled city-state headed by a Doge. Charles V named Venezuela for this city-state.
Charles V [accept Charles I of Spain; accept Carlos, Carlo, Karl, Carolus, and Karel in place of “Charles”; prompt on Charles, Carlos, Carlo, Karl, Carolus, or Karel alone]
Battle of Pavia
Republic of Venice &lt;BL&gt;
For 10 points each, name these members of U.S. organizations called the Progressive Party.
In 1912, this man led the first Progressive Party, nicknamed the “Bull Moose” Party, to the best third party finish in a general election. Eleven years earlier, he had become president upon William McKinley’s assassination.
This Wisconsin senator ran for president in 1924 as a Progressive candidate and notably forced the U.S. not to join the League of Nations. Joseph McCarthy later became a senator by defeating this man’s son.
This former vice president ran for president in 1948 as a Progressive. His campaign advocated for ending the Cold War, ending segregation, and providing national healthcare.
Theodore Roosevelt Jr. [accept Teddy Roosevelt; prompt on partial answer]
Robert (Marion) La Follette Sr. [prompt on Fighting Bob]
Henry (Agard) Wallace [prompt on Wallace] &lt;DM&gt;
This position was at the top of the cursus honorum. For 10 points each:
Name this position in the Roman Republic. Two men jointly held this position at any given time, though they took turns holding control of the military, or imperium.
A man of this name, along with Collatinus, Lucretius, and Valerius, helped overthrow the Roman monarchy and became one of the first consuls. Another man with this name led the conspiracy to kill Julius Caesar with Cassius.
One of the precipitating factors for the overthrow of the Roman monarchy was Sextus Tarquinius’s assault of this woman. She was married to Collatinus.
consuls
Junius Brutus [accept Lucius Junius Brutus or Marcus Junius Brutus; begrudgingly accept Brute]
Lucretia [accept Lucrece] &lt;DM/CL&gt;
This man stated that freedom was a “principle for which [he was] prepared to die.” For 10 points each:
Name this activist, revolutionary, and first black South African President. He was imprisoned on Robben Island for 27 years, and he also led the African National Congress.
Mandela founded a militant anti-apartheid group named for one of these weapons “of the nation” in the wake of the 1960 Sharpeville massacre. The assegai is a type of this weapon.
This former Deputy President, labor leader, and modern member of the African National Congress replaced Jacob Zuma as President of South Africa in February 2018.
Nelson (Rolihlahla) Mandela
spears [or umkhonto; accept Spear of the Nation or Umkhonto we Sizwe; prompt on hasta; prompt on az-zagayah; prompt on zagaglias; prompt on lancegays; prompt on javelins; prompt on poles]
Cyril Ramaphosa &lt;BL&gt;
This man was appointed to his current post by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. For 10 points each:
Identify this special counsel who is currently leading an investigation into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
Findings from Mueller’s investigation led to the indictment of this man, who was placed under house arrest. He had previously served as President Trump’s campaign chairman.
Mueller’s investigation team is looking into allegations made by this British intelligence officer, who was contracted by Fusion GPS to participate in opposition research during the election. His allegations include the infamous “pee tape” story.
Robert “Bob” Swan Mueller III
Paul John Manafort Jr.
Christopher (David) Steele [accept Steele dossier] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some British cities which have been around since Roman times.
This city in Somerset was known as Aquae Sulis in Roman times. The structure which names this city contains a caldarium and a frigidarium and was built on a natural spring.
This city, founded during Roman times as Eboracum, was home to the famous 8th century scholar Alcuin, who was an important figure in Charlemagne’s court at Aachen.
This walled city on the River Dee was called Deva (“DAY-wuh”) in Roman times. Its name is also part of the names of several other cities such as the administrative center of Dorset.
Bath
York [do not accept or prompt on “Yorkshire”; do not accept or prompt on “New York” or “Old York”]
Chester [accept Caer] &lt;CO&gt;
This man gave control of his army to a compatriot after the conference at Guayaquil. For 10 points each:
Name this general who was key in securing the independence of Chile at clashes like the Battle of Maipú. He used gauchos to win independence in his home country and briefly served as the Governor of Cuyo.
San Martín was from this modern country within what was once the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. Its capital is Buenos Aires.
After San Martín gave his troops to Bolivar, the newly combined forces helped liberate Peru by winning this 1824 battle named for a city in the modern Huamanga Province. This battle’s result led to the surrender of the main royalist resistance.
José (Francisco) de San Martín (y Matorras)
Argentina [accept the Argentine Republic or República Argentina]
Battle of Ayacucho &lt;DM&gt;
The first country in the world to legally allow this practice was the Netherlands. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, now legal in every U.S. state, though the first state to legalize this practice was Massachusetts. Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi underwent this practice in 2008.
This ballot initiative amended the state constitution of California in 2008 to state that “[o]nly marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized.” It was overturned in the Supreme Court case Hollingsworth v. Perry.
In this 2015 case, the Supreme Court ruled that states had to issue and recognize marriage licenses for same-sex couples. The five-Justice majority in this case was headed by Justice Kennedy.
same-sex marriage [accept obvious equivalents; prompt on partial]
California Proposition 8 [prompt on Eliminates Rights of Same-Sex Couples to Marry Act; prompt on California Marriage Protection Act]
Obergefell v. Hodges &lt;CL&gt;
In June of 2018, female residents of this country will be able to drive. For 10 points each:
Identify this Middle Eastern country, which is the world’s largest oil producer and exporter and has a capital at Riyadh.
Some of the most powerful Saudi Arabians, including several princes, were kept in one of these buildings for months between 2017 and 2018. On January 20, 2018, the Taliban attacked one of these buildings in Kabul.
In lighter news, Saudi Arabia lifted its ban on public movie screenings in December 2017, and in 2018, this movie became the first to be shown there since.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia [prompt on KSA]
hotels [accept Intercontinental Hotel; accept Ritz-Carlton Hotel; prompt on Ritz-Carlton]
The Emoji Movie &lt;CL&gt;
All knowledge of this historical figure stems from the <em>Primary Chronicle</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this medieval chieftain and founder of a namesake dynasty originally based in Novgorod. He was a member of the Rus’ people.
This member of the Rurikids reconquered Novgorod after fleeing his brother and converted the Rus to Christianity. The politician who wrote the pamphlet What Is To Be Done? shares his first name.
Vladimir the Great was also the Grand Prince of this city, the current capital of Ukraine.
Rurik the Rus’
Vladimir the Great [accept Saint Vladimir of Kiev]
Kiev [accept Kyiv; accept Kyjev] &lt;CL&gt;
This dynasty sacked the Byzantine city of Amorium. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty which was conquered in a conflict during which a river supposedly ran black and red with ink and blood. Harun al-Rashid founded the House of Wisdom during the rule of this dynasty.
That conquest was by this empire under the leadership of Hulagu Khan. Other leaders of this empire include Genghis Khan.
Hulagu's advance was finally stopped at this 1260 battle after he left only 10,000 men in the Levant to continue his conquest. That force under Kitbuga was almost entirely destroyed by Mamluk sultan Qutuz at this battle.
Abbasid Caliphate [accept al-Khilafatu al-Abbasiyah]
Mongol Empire [or the Mongols; accept Mongolyn Ezent Güren; prompt on Horde]
Battle of Ayn Jalut &lt;DM&gt;
One event on this island began when a Frenchman harassed a woman during prayers. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian island, the location of a mass uprising against Charles of Anjou also known as its namesake “Vespers.”
The Sicilian Vespers happened concurrently with a crusade named after this region. A ruler of this Spanish region issued the Alhambra Decree and married Germaine de Foix.
This nephew of Charles of Anjou was one of the leaders of the Aragonese Crusade and succeeded Louis IX as King of France. He was a member of the House of Capet nicknamed “le Hardi.”
Sicily [accept Sicilia; accept Sicilian Vespers]
Aragon [accept Aragó; accept Aragonese Crusade or Crusade of Aragon]
Philip III of France [accept Philip the Bold; prompt on Philip] &lt;ML&gt;
. For 10 points each, name some things about possibly the world’s funniest military misadventure.
In this brief one month war, Major G. P. W. Meredith failed in his mission to exterminate a namesake avian population despite having machine guns.
The Emu War took place in this country, which is also a continent.
In the Emu War, the Royal Australian Artillery were armed with this World War I era machine gun with a distinctive cooling chamber.
Great Emu War
Commonwealth of Australia
Lewis Gun &lt;BL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about “armies” in U.S. history that are not the U.S. Army.
This president allowed Douglas MacArthur to crush the Bonus Army, a group of World War I veterans demanding pay. Their economic strife was exacerbated by the Great Depression, which began under this president.
This “army,” led by a namesake Ohio businessman, was actually a major national protest march on Washington. It protested an ongoing economic depression and sought an increase in government jobs.
The “Watermelon Army” was sent under Light Horse Harry Lee to defeat this insurrection, which began after Pennsylvania farmers attacked John Neville’s house.
Herbert (Clark) Hoover
Coxey’s Army
Whiskey Rebellion [or Whiskey Insurrection] &lt;DM&gt;
A massacre in which shots were intentionally fired at the five exits took place at a location in this city with high walls on all sides. For 10 points each:
Name this Punjab city where that massacre occurred in the Jallianwala Bagh. A later raid of the Golden Temple in this city, Operation Blue Star, led to the assassination of Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards.
This British colonel was originally praised for perpetrating the Amritsar massacre to brutally punish disobedience of an order of curfew. He was eventually relieved of command as details of the massacre came to light.
Martial law was imposed in Amritsar due to protests in connection with this man’s satyagraha movement. He led the Indian independence movement as a proponent of nonviolence, and famously conducted a salt march.
Amritsar [accept Ramdaspur; accept Ambarsar]
Reginald (Edward Harry) Dyer
Mohandas Gandhi [accept Mahatma Gandhi; prompt on Gandhi] &lt;DM&gt;
This leader fought his country’s northern neighbor in what is sometimes called the Liberation War. For 10 points each:
Name this first leader of Tanzania led the TANU and whose concept of “ujamaa” combined socialism with African tradition. He was succeeded by Ali Hassan Mwinyi.
Nyerere was key in unifying Tanganyika and this semi-autonomous group of islands, once ruled by the Sultan of Oman, into the unified state of Tanzania.
This document by Nyerere and the TANU is essentially a platform for African socialism. This document’s TANU “Creed” asserts the equality of human beings and the fundamental right to “dignity and respect.”
Julius (Kambarage) Nyerere
Zanzibar [accept Zanjibar]
Arusha Declaration [accept Azimio la Arusha; prompt on Policy on Socialism and Self Reliance] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
In connection with this movement, the “Silence Breakers” were named <em>Time’s</em> Person of the Year for 2017. For 10 points each:
Identify this movement with a namesake hashtag in which women are admitting to having experienced sexual harassment or assault, especially in the workplace. It is related to the Time’s Up movement.
Although the #MeToo movement has only come into the spotlight recently, the phrase “me too” has been used since 2006, when Tarana Burke posted it on this social network, often considered a predecessor to Facebook.
Actress Catherine Deneuve controversially signed an open letter criticizing a French offshoot of the Me Too movement, which encourages women to expose this thing, for jeopardizing fliration and demonizing men.
#MeToo [prompt on anything relating to workplace sexual harassment or assault; prompt on the reckoning]
Myspace
your pig [accept ton porc; accept #BalanceTonPorc or #ExposeYourPig or #DenounceYourPig] &lt;CL&gt;
Muhammad Ali nearly succeeded in putting down a rebellion in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this historical country that gained independence in 1832 with its initial capital at Nafplio. Its capital was soon moved to Athens.
A treaty signed in this city led to British, French, and Russian involvement in the Greek War of Independence, allowing them to fight in the Battle of Navarino. A convention in this city closed certain straits to warships.
After the Greek War of Independence, a German with this name became the first modern King of Greece. Another ruler with this name was described in one work by Widukind of Corvey.
Greece [accept Hellas; do not accept or prompt on “Hellenic Republic”]
London
Otto [accept Otto I or Otto the Great or Otto of Greece] &lt;DM/CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following about U.S. victories in the Pacific theater of World War II.
The U.S.’s first major Central Pacific offensive began at this small island in the Gilbert Islands, costing over 3,000 casualties in only three days of fighting. This island is also the capital of Kiribati (“ki-ri-bass”).
This island chain and modern nation, previously an American colony, was recaptured by the U.S. in a campaign that climaxed at the Battle of Leyte Gulf. This country’s city of Manila was captured in March 1945.
This island with capital of Naha featured the bloodiest battle in the Pacific front, leading many to dub it the “Typhoon of Steel.” The Yamato was destroyed on its way to aid in the battle for this island.
Tarawa
Philippines
Okinawa &lt;DM&gt;
This dynasty dealt with Imperial Russia to establish a border on the Amur River. For 10 points each:
Name this last Chinese dynasty. Its rulers were of Manchu origin and thus incorporated Manchuria into Chinese lands.
The Qing Dynasty signed this 1689 treaty with Russia, creating the border between Lake Baikal and the Stanovoy Mountains. This treaty incorporated all of the Amur Basin, including areas to the north of the river, into China.
The Treaty of Nerchinsk was signed during the rule of this second Qing emperor to rule China. He had the longest reign in Chinese history, defeating resistance in the south and the Tungning Empire of Koxinga.
Great Qing Dynasty [prompt on Aisin Gioro]
Treaty of Nerchinsk
Kangxi Emperor [accept Hiowan Yei; accept Aisin Gioro Xuanye] &lt;DM&gt;
After the First Battle of the Marne, this man told Kaiser Wilhelm II, “We have lost the war.” For 10 points each:
Name this early World War I commander whose father also commanded the army of Imperial Germany.
The Battle of the Marne led to the failure of this German war plan to knock France out of the war by swinging through a country to its north to capture Paris.
The Schlieffen Plan called for the Germans to swing through this neutral country, but the so called “rape” of this country led to the British entering the war. It is currently home to the de facto capital of the European Union.
Helmuth Johann Ludwig von Moltke [accept Moltke the Younger; prompt on Helmuth von Moltke]
Schlieffen Plan
Kingdom of Belgium &lt;BL&gt;
In 1939, this leader declared himself “El caudillo.” For 10 points each:
Name this dictator who controlled Spain from the end of the Spanish Civil War until he died in 1975. Like most dictators, he was highly repressive, especially against the Catalan people.
Before dying, Franco reinstated the Spanish monarchy, leading to the rise of this king, the grandson of Alfonso XIII. He abdicated the throne in 2014.
When Juan Carlos abdicated, this son of his, former Olympic sailor, and current King of Spain assumed the throne. His wife is Queen Letizia.
Francisco Franco Bahamonde [accept Francisco Bahamonde]
Juan Carlos I [accept Juan Carlos Alfonso Víctor María de Borbón y Borbón-Dos Sicilias]
Felipe VI [accept Philip VI; prompt on Felipe or Philip] &lt;CL&gt;
. This period of time was caused by the turmoil of the Yellow Turban Rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name this period of Chinese history named for a certain number of monarchical governments and was memorialized in a namesake Romance.
The most famous member of this Kingdom of Wei ruling family unified northern China during the Three Kingdoms period. That member of this family controlled puppet emperor Xian and lost the Battle of Red Cliffs.
This family controlled the kingdom of Wu in southeastern China. Its member Ce had formed the precursor to the kingdom of Wu, while its member Quan had founded the kingdom itself.
Three Kingdoms period [accept equivalents mentioning three kingdoms; accept San Guo]
Cao [accept Cao Cao]
Sun &lt;DM&gt;
Women in this city-state frequently used the labor of helots to avoid doing housework. For 10 points each:
Name this city-state which defeated Athens at Aegospotami at the conclusion of the Peloponnesian War.
The destruction of the Long Walls at Aegospotami was led by this Spartan admiral, who clashed with Antiochus at the Battle of Notium. This military leader negotiated with Theramenes after blockading Piraeus.
Following the capitulation of Athens at the end of the Peloponnesian War, Sparta instituted this group to rule Athens in an oligarchy. One leading member of this group, Critias, became notorious for his violence after his execution of several prisoners.
Sparta [accept Lacedaemon]
Lysander [or Lysandros]
Thirty Tyrants &lt;GA&gt;
Before 2017, the last Democrat elected to serve as senator of this state was Richard Shelby, who subsequently changed parties. For 10 points each:
Name this Southern state where former federal prosecutor Doug Jones narrowly won a 2017 special election over Republican Roy Moore.
Before his candidacy, Jones was best known for successfully prosecuting two actors behind this 1963 terrorist incident in Alabama, in which four young girls were killed.
One of the factors in Jones’s win was the recurrence of accusations that Moore had pursued and sexually assaulted minors. One Moore supporter, Jim Ziegler, used this Biblical defense in response. A description is fine.
Alabama
the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing [accept equivalents; accept the Birmingham church bombing; prompt on partial]
Mary and Joseph were teenagers [accept anything related to the idea that Jesus was born to teenage parents; accept Zachariah was much older than Elizabeth or anything about the parents of John the Baptist having a large age difference] &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name these ruling families important in German history.
From 1138 to 1208, this dynasty ruled over Germany, producing three Holy Roman Emperors, including Kaiser Friedrich Rotbart, better known as Frederick Barbarossa.
This dynasty ruled Brandenburg and Prussia in a personal union and unified various German states into the German Empire in 1871 before the fall of its last ruling member, Wilhelm II, at the end of World War I.
This ruling house of Austria fought the Hohenzollerns in the War of the Austrian Succession and was the last dynasty of the Holy Roman Empire. Prominent members of this house, which had a distinctive jaw, included Francis I and Franz Josef I.
Hohenstaufen [accept Staufer or House of Staufen]
House of Hohenzollern
Habsburg-Lorraine [do not accept or prompt on “House of Lorraine”] &lt;BL&gt;
Let’s talk about things you might find on an old map of Europe. For 10 points each, name some of these regions.
This region is currently split between Ukraine and another country, and was once also known as the Kingdom of Lodomeria. It shares a name with a region that has its capital at the end of the Way of St. James.
This once-hotly contested, resource-rich region was annexed by Frederick the Great in 1740, beginning the War of the Austrian Succession.
Part of Galicia and most of Silesia are located in this modern-day country which was once ruled by the Piast dynasty. The capital of this country is Warsaw.
Galicia
Silesia [accept Slask or Slezsko or Schlesien or Schläsing or Slunsk or Slazynska or Sleska]
Republic of Poland [accept Rzeczpospolita Polska] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
This text is also known as the <em>Shiji</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this historical text that discusses Chinese history from the legendary Yellow Emperor to Emperor Wu. It is divided into “Basic Annals,” “Tables,” “Treatises,” “Hereditary Houses,” and “Ranked Biographies.”
A person with this family name named Qian wrote Records of the Grand Historian. His father, Tan, was Grand Astrologer and began work on the Records, and another person with this family name founded the Jin dynasty.
Records of the Grand Historian was written during this dynasty, which was preceded by the Qin and gives its name to China’s largest ethnic group.
Records of the Grand Historian
Sima
Han Dynasty [accept Han Chao] &lt;BL/ML/CL&gt;
King Dingane led one side of this battle, which took place at a site also known as the Ncome River. For 10 points each:
Name this 1838 battle in which the Voortrekkers, led by Andres Pretorius, used artillery and buckshot. At this battle, the only three Boers were wounded, while thirty percent of the opposition’s massive force was killed.
This kingdom in modern South Africa lost the Battles of Blood River and Ulundi and was earlier led by Shaka, who adopted the innovative buffalo horn formation in battle and replaced the traditional assegai with the iklwa.
This decisive Zulu victory in 1879 over Lord Chelmsford occurred despite superior British weapons. The British were overwhelmed by a greater Zulu force and in many instances ran out of ammunition from bad planning.
Battle of Blood River [accept Slag van Bloedrivier; accept iMpi yaseNcome]
Zulu Kingdom [accept Zulu Empire; accept Kingdom of Zululand]
Battle of Isandlwana &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the Annus Mirabilis of 1759.
The Annus Mirabilis occurred when this world power won a pivotal string of battles around the world over France, including the capture of Louisbourg and victory at Quiberon Bay. The year after, George III took the throne.
Although the British won the 1759 Battle of the Plains of Abraham, this general still died there. He was sometimes called the Conqueror of Canada and is featured in a painting in which Thomas Hinde stems his blood.
The British also captured this French fort on the shores of Lake Champlain, which they renamed Fort Ticonderoga. A previous battle in this location had seen Montcalm defeat the British while outnumbered 5 to 1.
Great Britain [or United Kingdom]
James Wolfe
Fort Carillon &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about field marshals in military operations named after planets.
Erwin Rommel was in command of German forces when Allied forces landed on the beaches of Normandy in Operation Neptune but he committed suicide after he was implicated in a plot to kill this Führer of Nazi Germany.
This Soviet general was named a Field Marshal for overseeing Operation Uranus, which encircled Paulus’s Sixth Army in Stalingrad. He gained recognition for defeating the Kwantung Army at Khalkin Gol and organized Moscow’s defense.
This German Field Marshal was known as “Hitler’s Fireman” for his defensive brilliance, particularly in Operation Mars, sometimes called “Zhukov’s greatest defeat.” He lost status after defeat at the Battle of the Bulge.
Adolf Hitler
Georgy (Konstantinovich) Zhukov
(Otto Moritz) Walter Model &lt;BL&gt;
Answer some questions about the British Reform Acts, for 10 points each:
The First Reform Act granted wider representation by eliminating these districts, in which voters numbered as few as seven and were easily bribed into voting for the highest bidder.
The Fifth Reform Act extended the franchise to this group of people. These people received the franchise in the US as a result of the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
This Tory served as Prime Minister while the Fifth Reform Act made its way through Parliament. He also oversaw Edward VIII’s abdication and dominated the interwar government.
rotten boroughs
women
Stanley Baldwin
Charles V issues one of these edicts in 1549 that attempted to consolidate the Netherlands. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term for decrees such as one issued in 1713 by Charles VI, which allowed the Hapsburg possessions to pass to women despite Salic law.
This kingdom then ruled by Frederick the Great broke the Pragmatic Sanction by invading Silesia and allying with France to challenge Maria Theresa’s claim to the throne.
Frederick the Great was a member of this Prussian dynastic house, which was split into the Catholic Swabian and Protestant Franconian branches. This dynasty was overthrown with the establishment of the Weimar Republic in 1918.
Pragmatic Sanctions
Kingdom of Prussia
House of Hohenzollern
After this man took power in 1973, his regime used the country’s national stadium as a prison camp and torture facility. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator who overthrew the Marxist Salvador Allende in a military coup.
Pinochet became the military leader of this country, after the presidential palace, La Moneda, was shelled in its capital city of Santiago.
In the Chilean election of 1970, this former President of Chile from 1958 to 1964, who had defeated Allende in 1958 by a narrow margin, lost the second time 37.3 to 35.8 percent.
Augusto Pinochet
Chile
Jorge Alessandri
Senussi Rebels resisted this country’s occupation of their homeland, Tripolitania. For 10 points each:
Name this European power that unified in 1871 under Victor Emmanuel II. It conquered the province of Libya from the Ottoman Empire in 1911.
In 1896, the Italians were decisively defeated by Abyssinian irregulars at this battle. King Menelik II stockpiled thousands of European arms in preparation for this battle.
Despite losses in Abyssinia, Italy managed to consolidate control over two other colonial provinces in the Horn of Africa during the 20th Century. Name either.
Kingdom of Italy [accept Regno d'Italia]
Battle of Adwa [accept Battle of Adowa]
Italian Eritrea OR Italian Somaliland [do not accept “Somalia”]
This speech states “Our war is not a war of conquest” and compares Cicero saving Rome from the Catiline conspiracy to Andrew Jackson saving America from the banks. For 10 points each: For 10 points each:
Name this speech that describes a free silver convention in Memphis, and compares proponents of that platform to the Crusaders following Peter the Hermit.
The “Cross of Gold” speech was delivered by this man, which led to him securing the Democratic Party nomination for President in 1896.
Bryan lost to the Republican William McKinley, whose campaign was managed both in 1896 and 1900 by this U.S. Senator from Ohio and Chairman of the Republican National Committee.
“Cross of Gold” speech
William Jennings Bryan
Mark Hanna
In an 1802 letter to Napoleon Bonaparte, this leader references a “veil of oblivion” for events that happened in Saint Domingue. For 10 points each:
Name this former slave and revolutionary leader who made himself Governor-General in an 1801 Constitution but was then captured by Charles Leclerc.
L’Ouverture was succeeded by Jean-Jacques Dessalines as the President of this country governed from Port-au-Prince, which shares Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic.
Under the orders of Rafael Trujillo, Dominicans carried out an anti-Haitian massacre that was named after this plant garnish, because people’s pronunciation of its Spanish name perejil would give them away.
Toussaint L’Ouverture
Republic of Haiti
parsley
In 2015, the Islamic State seized control of the historic city of Palmyra after a seven day siege. For 10 points each:
Palmyra was formerly a city in this empire governed from the namesake city, which entered the tumultuous Year of Five Emperors after the assassination of Commodus.
This emperor seized power in 193 CE during the Year of the Five Emperors and later expanded the border of Syria Palaestina to the Tigris River, at the expense of the Parthians.
Not to be confused with its counterpart in Rome, this Palmyrene ornamental passage built for Septimius Severus was blown up by ISIS. There are plans to rebuild it using anastylosis.
The Roman Empire [or Rome]
Septimius Severus
Monumental Arch [accept Arch of Triumph]
Answer some questions about wonders of China dating back to the Qin Dynasty, for 10 points each:
Qin Shi Huang consolidated this series of fortifications to protect his empire from the Xiongnu people to the north. It now stretches 5,500 miles and isn’t actually visible from space.
Qin Shi Huang’s mausoleum consisted of these sculptures of soldiers, musicians, horses, and more, made out of a namesake type of earthenware.
Qin Shi Huang visited this lake and moored his boat to a stone that later became the Big Stone Buddhist Temple. This freshwater lake, located in Hangzhou, China, was named a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2011.
Great Wall of China
Terracotta Army [accept Terracotta soldiers or Terracotta warriors]
West Lake [accept Xihu]
US troops withdrew from this city to Camp Baharia due to the rising power of insurgent groups, but they would return in May of that year. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was captured by coalition forces in May of 2004. The second battle over this city was codenamed Operation Phantom Fury.
The Second Battle of Fallujah was the bloodiest battle of this war. US forces withdrew from this conflict in 2011 following 8 years of occupation.
The Iraq War was launched in an attempt to topple this Baathist dictator, under the assumption he had the capability to produce WMDs. He was executed in 2006.
Fallujah
Iraq War
Saddam Hussein Abd al-Majid al-Tikriti
To fill the power void left by the fall of the Tokugawa bakufu, this ruler promulgated the Charter Oath and established a strong central government, for 10 points each:
Name this man, who oversaw Japan’s modernization efforts from 1868 to 1912 as emperor.
One of the Meiji government’s reforms was to establish these administrative divisions, of which Japan currently has 47. Hokkaido is the only of these to have the “circuit” designation.
The Meiji government demonstrated Japan’s industrialization and rise by defeating Russia in 1905; that war concluded with this treaty, signed in the US.
Emperor Meiji [or Meiji-tennō; accept Mutsuhito; accept Meiji the Great; or Meiji-taitei]
prefectures
Treaty of Portsmouth
After the battles of Plassey and Buxar, this entity gained control of Bengal, though it continued to swear fealty and pay tribute to the Mughals, for 10 points each:
Name this joint-stock company, which used its massive army to annex all of India.
Company rule came to an end after this rebellion. The spark for this rebellion came after a rumor spread that the British greased their Enfield rifle cartridges with pig and cow fat.
Because the armies of the presidencies of Bombay and this city did not recruit as many higher-caste individuals, those armies did not revolt, unlike the army of the Bengal Presidency.
British East India Company
Sepoy Mutiny [or Indian Revolt of 1857]
Madras
Providing this nutritious substance to students was mandated by the Education Act of 1944, while an act two years later made it free for all children under 18. For 10 points each:
Name this beverage that was then gradually made not free by Education Secretaries beginning with Edward Short in 1968.
The iconic designation of “Milk Snatcher” was given to this equally iconic “Iron Lady”, who became the first woman to be appointed Prime Minister when she took office in 1979.
During the Falkland Islands War, Thatcher ordered the torpedoing of this Argentine cruiser by nuclear submarine, resulting in over 300 deaths.
milk
Margaret Thatcher
ARA General Belgrano [prompt on partial answer]
Name some spooky sites, for 10 points each:
Maramureș, Crișana, and Banat are all sometimes included in this Romanian region enclosed by the Carpathians. It served as the location of Dracula’s castle.
Rich iron deposits render compasses useless in this dense forest on the northwestern side of Mt. Fuji. This site is named for an action commonly taken here.
A UFO was sighted in a ranch in this New Mexican town in 1947. It was later debunked as a nuclear test surveillance balloon from Operation Mogul.
Transylvania
Suicide Forest [accept Aokigahara and Sea of Trees]
Roswell
This economic bubble occurred due to the stock market’s willingness to invest in any company bearing an Internet suffix. For 10 points each:
Give the name of this economic bubble, which burst in 2001. Examples of companies which suffered hits during this crisis include eBay, Amazon, and Monster.
Economic bubbles aren’t solely a modern phenomenon. This politician, the first Prime Minister of Great Britain, navigated his nation through the South Sea Bubble.
The first bubble is usually regarded to be the enormous appreciation and collapse in the price of this flower in 1637.
dot-com bubble [or information technology bubble]
Robert Walpole
tulips
This man was the first president and only world leader to have used nuclear weapons in war, and was also a founder of the United Nations. For 10 points each:
Name this president who desegregated the U.S. Armed Forces, and succeeded FDR.
After WWII, Truman supported this financial initiative to rebuild European economies by removing trade barriers, modernizing industry, and preventing the spread of Communism.
Along with George Marshall, this man helped design the Marshall Plan, and as Secretary of State, persuaded Truman to intervene in the Korean War.
Harry Truman
Marshall Plan [accept the European Recovery Program or ERP]
Dean Acheson
This leader is the namesake of a French political ideology, for 10 points each:
Name this founder and first president of the French Fifth Republic, who is also the namesake of a Paris airport.
De Gaulle introduced this economic policy in France characterized by substantial state control over a capitalist economy. This economic system helped spur the “Trente Glorieuses”.
Economic growth slowed under this successor of De Gaulle, who experienced the First Cohabitation when his Prime Minister Jacques Chirac was from the opposite coalition.
Charles de Gaulle
dirigisme [accept dirigiste]
Francois Mitterrand
This man was chosen by the “Committee of 100” to run for Congress, and defeated Jerry Voorhis in 1946. For 10 points each:
Name this politician, who first gained national attention for urging the House to continue its investigation of the Alger Hiss spy case.
As President, Nixon stated “I'm not a crook” during this scandal that began with a break in at the DNC headquarters in Washington D.C.
The story surrounding Watergate was picked up by The Washington Post and spearheaded by these two investigative journalists. Name either.
Richard Nixon
Watergate
Carl Bernstein or Bob Woodward
This empire ended 500 years of fragmentation and disunion following the decline of the Mauryan Empire, for 10 points each:
Name this Golden Age Indian empire. Not much is known about its early years, apart from writings by the Chinese Buddhists Faxian, Xuanzang, and Yijing.
Gupta rulers such as Srigupta and Chandragupta ruled from this city in the state of Magadha. Either the ancient or modern name is acceptable.
As part of his goodwill efforts, Emperor Samudragupta aided Meghavarna, the king of this island, with the construction of a monastery. Under the British, this island was called Ceylon.
Gupta Empire
Patna [accept Pataliputra]
Sri Lanka
This leader was the eldest son of Pepin the Short. For 10 points each:
Name this king of the Franks who was part of the Carolingian Dynasty. Einhard wrote a biography on the life of this man, whose name means the Great.
On Christmas Day in 800 C.E., Charlemagne was crowned Holy Roman Emperor by the third pope of this name. Another pope with name was nicknamed the “Rosary Pope”.
This scholar from York advised Charlemagne at Aachen and convinced him to abolish cruel punishment for paganism.
Charlemagne [accept Charles the Great]
Leo III [accept Leo XIII]
Alcuin of York
Identify several key battles from WWI’s Western front, for 10 points each:
This 1916 battle was engineered by Erich von Falkenhayn to crush the French army in an old Roman fort. Philippe Petain organized the defense during this battle, saving the French army.
This early WWI battle halted the German army following their victory at the Battle of the Frontiers. It was fought along its namesake river.
This 1918 battle, also fought near the Marne, saw the US Marines’ first major action during the war. US divisions captured Hill 142 and repulsed five German divisions during this battle.
Battle of Verdun
First Battle of the Marne
Battle of Belleau Wood [prompt on “German Spring Offensive”]
During his pilgrimage to Mecca, Mansa Musa brought an abundant supply of this commodity, which he used as currency for souvenirs as well as for almsgiving. For 10 points each:
Name this precious metal that suffered devaluation as a result.
Mansa Musa also restored the Sankore Madrasah and built the Djinguereber Mosque in this city, which became the center of learning and trade during the Golden Age of Mali.
This grandfather of Mansa Musa was the founder of the Mali Empire. His namesake epic is told through oral tradition and describes how he went from not being able to walk as a child to becoming the “Lion of Mali”.
gold
Timbuktu
Sundiata Keita [accept Sunjata]
Confederate statues served as a key issue in this state’s 2017 gubernatorial race. For 10 points each:
Name this state that was the site of a “Unite the Right rally” to protest the removal of the Robert E. Lee statue in Emancipation Park in its city of Charlottesville.
Calling for a removal of Confederate statues in Virginia, and taking a hard stance against President Trump, this former lieutenant governor won the gubernatorial election in Virginia.
In the Virginia election, this journalist ran in the 13th district of the House of Delegates and won, becoming the first openly transgender person elected to serve as a state representative.
Virginia
Ralph Northam
Danica Roem
To assert France’s place at this conference, Minister Talleyrand first allied himself with eight lesser powers to hijack negotiations, for 10 points each:
Name this meeting of European ambassadors which convened in 1814, chaired by Austrian diplomat Klemens von Metternich.
The peace negotiated between the Great Powers in Vienna led to a coordinated effort to intervene in this modern-day country’s 1821 war of independence.
To ensure internal stability in Europe, Metternich passed these decrees in 1819, which expanded press censorship and abolished nationalist fraternities in the German Confederation.
Congress of Vienna
Greece
Carlsbad Decrees
Gregory Stanton posited eight stages to these events, which include dehumanization, extermination, and denial. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the systematic destruction of a group of people. Mass atrocities classified under this term include the Holocaust and ones in Rwanda and Armenia.
In November 2017, Slobodan Praljak drank poison after his verdict was upheld for war crimes during a conflict in this country, in which Muslims were targeted by Slobodan Milosevic.
Also in November, this “Butcher of Bosnia” and Serb commander during the Balkan Wars was found guilty of genocide and other crimes against humanity by an international tribunal.
genocide
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Ratko Mladic
Name some things related to railroads during the Gilded Age, for 10 points each:
Due to popular fascination with trains, cities constructed grand railroad stations, such as Penn Station in New York City and this station on Massachusetts Avenue in Washington, DC.
This railroad tycoon presided over the driving of the last spike at Promontory Point, Utah. He used his fortune to establish a university in Silicon Valley which bears his name.
Part of the pushback to the building of railroads came from this farmer’s movement, which sought a set of namesake laws to regulate rising fare prices. Either the name of the movement or laws is acceptable.
Union Station
Leland Stanford
Grange Movement or Granger Laws
Because of this class of people’s participation in the Argentine military during the 1810 war of independence, the Argentine government passed the 1813 Free Womb Act. For 10 points each:
Name this class of people, who received freedom in the First Constitution of 1853. Once liberated, people formerly holding this status were disproportionately represented in the Argentine military.
The Argentine military engaged in a South American naval arms race after Brazil began purchasing battleships of this class, inaugurated by the UK in 1906 with an eponymous ship.
In 1955, the Argentine military executed a coup d’état against this popular president. His and his wife Evita’s ideology continues to influence Argentine politics.
Argentine slaves
dreadnoughts
Juan Domingo Perón
In 1962, this man was convicted of conspiring to overthrow the state in the Rivonia Trial, resulting in a sentence for life imprisonment on Robben Island. For 10 points each:
Name this anti-apartheid leader and first black president of South Africa.
Mandela founded Umkhonto we Sizwe, the militant wing of this South African political party. Current president Jacob Zuma is a member of this party.
This president legalized the ANC and other previously banned political parties in 1990. He and Mandela jointly received the Nobel Peace Prize for the end of apartheid.
Nelson Mandela
African National Congress
Frederik Willem “F.W.” de Klerk
Name the following about the life of King Árpád, for 10 points each:
Árpád’s kingdom sat in this modern-day country, whose capital is Budapest.
Árpád led these tribal people, now the primary ethnic group of Hungary.
Byzantine Emperor Leo VI incited Árpád to wage war against an empire based in what’s now this modern-day state after Simeon I, leader of that empire, attacked the Byzantines.
Hungary
Magyars
Bulgaria
Li Jingye led a rebellion against this person. For 10 points each:
Name this only ruler and founder of the second Zhou Dynasty, who recast the Nine Tripod Cauldrons after a loss to Tibet in 696 C.E. and sometimes gave orders from behind a curtain.
As the wife of Gaozong, Wu Zetian held this position. Unlike the dowager Cixi, who also had this title but ruled through her nephew, Wu ruled as an official female regent of China.
Because of her political influence during the Tang Dynasty, Empress Wu was accused of this crime to manipulate the Mandate of Heaven. Ironically, the Chinese word for practitioners of this is also “wū”.
Wu Zetian [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL Empress Wu]
empress [accept empress dowager; prompt on “consorts”, “consorts of Chinese Emperors” or equivalents; do not accept or prompt on “queen” or “emperor” by itself]
using witchcraft [accept obvious equivalents involving witchcraft; accept sacrifice, practicing divination, shamanism, or sorcery; do not accept “magic”]
This longest-reigning female pharaoh of Egypt ruled alongside Thutmose III, but far outshined him, even though he attempted to wipe records of her during his reign. For 10 points each:
Name this pharaoh of Egypt’s 18th Dynasty, who sent an expedition to Punt and commemorated it with a temple at Deir el-Bahri.
At the entrance to the Temple of Karnak, Hatshepsut built a twin set of these structures, one of which still stands at 97 feet tall. An “Unfinished” one of these structures by her lies at Aswan.
Another pharaoh of the 18th Dynasty was this man who attempted to establish a monotheistic religion in Egypt that worshipped the sun-disk Aten.
Hatshepsut
obelisks
Akhenaten [accept Amenhotep IV]
The United States has had not only some pretty cool Presidents, but also some rad First Ladies. Answer some questions about them, for 10 points each:
In a famous March 31, 1776 letter, Abigail Adams urges her husband John to do [this three word phrase] and “be more generous and favorable to them than [his] ancestors”.
This first lady is often remembered by her iconic pink Chanel suit and matching hat, which she was wearing the night of her husband’s assassination in 1963.
Following her husband’s death, Eleanor Roosevelt became heavily involved with the UN and served as the first chair for this subsidiary body of the Economic and Social Council.
“remember the ladies”
Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy [accept Jackie Kennedy; accept Jacqueline Lee Kennedy Onassis; accept Jackie O; prompt on partial answer]
United Nations Commission on Human Rights [accept UNCHR]
This man served as Prime Minister for 19 years, making him the second longest-serving. Answer some questions about our northern neighbor, for 10 points each:
Name this first Prime Minister of Canada. After forming the Great Coalition with his rival George Brown, he passed the Constitution Act of 1867, which established Canada as a country.
Macdonald resigned after this scandal that implicated 150 members of the Conservative Party who took bribes from bidding contractors for a planned transcontinental railroad.
A Prime Minister with this surname was the third longest-serving. He opposed Quebec sovereignty in a 1980 referendum and his son is the current PM.
Sir John Alexander Macdonald
Pacific Scandal
Pierre Trudeau [accept Justin Trudeau; do not accept nicknames like PET that do not include the surname]
This election came to be known as the “Corrupt Bargain” because Andrew Jackson lost the presidency despite winning the popular vote. For 10 points each:
Name this election in which John Quincy Adams was elected president by the House of Representatives after Henry Clay lent Adams his support.
This man came in third in the electoral college vote in 1824. This former Georgia senator was the U.S. minister to France under James Madison.
Crawford served in this position under President James Monroe. Alexander Hamilton was the first holder of this position where he worked to charter a national bank and establish the U.S. mint.
Election of 1824
William Harris Crawford
Secretary of the Treasury
Under this French king, Maximilian de Bethune, Duke of Sully lowered taxes for peasants while restoring the paulette tax. For 10 points each:
Name this Bourbon king who ended the Wars of Religion with the Edict of Nantes in 1598. As a former Protestant, he was assassinated by a Catholic fanatic named Francois Ravaillac.
French Protestants were given this name. Thousands of these people were killed in the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre in 1572.
The massacre began two days after a failed assassination attempt on this Huguenot admiral, who was then killed and defenestrated by a group of mercenaries for the Duke of Guise.
Henry IV [accept Henry of Navarre; prompt on partial answer]
Huguenots
Admiral Gaspard de Coligny
Eleven countries who were formerly part of this deal announced their intent to resurrect it at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. Answer some questions about Trump’s 2017 trip to Asia, for 10 points each:
Name this free trade pact that the United States withdrew from on his first day in office.
While he didn’t vomit in a Prime Minister’s lap like George H.W. Bush, Trump had an embarrassing moment when he was confused at how to do a group version of this action at the ASEAN summit in Manila.
Instead of visiting the DMZ, Trump went to Seoul to meet with this world leader and former human rights lawyer, after which he tweeted, “Many subjects discussed including North Korea and new trade deal!”
Trans Pacific Partnership
handshake [accept shaking hands or obvious equivalents]
Moon Jae-in
Wehrmacht general Georg Stumme died after his vehicle was ambushed during the second day of this battle, for 10 points each:
Name this North African battle that halted the German Afrika Korp’s advance into Egypt.
This general led the Afrika Korp to success until 1942. His book, Infantry Attacks, laid the groundwork for modern combat during WWII.
As a result of the Second Battle of El Alamein, the Allies defended this Egyptian waterway connecting the Red and Mediterranean Seas.
Second Battle of El Alamein [do not prompt on or accept “First Battle of El Alamein”]
Erwin Rommel
Suez Canal
At the Seneca Falls convention, Elizabeth Cady Stanton read a document that parodied this text ratified on July 4th. Answer some questions about feminist clapbacks, for 10 points each:
The Declaration of Sentiments and Resolutions mirrored this text by beginning “When in the course of human events” and describing the “repeated injuries and usurpations” of man toward woman.
This French feminist and playwright wrote the Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen, and was guillotined as a result.
In A Vindication of the Rights of Woman, Mary Wollstonecraft attacked this French philosopher, who argued that women should be educated for the pleasure of men.
Declaration of Independence
Olympe de Gouges
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
The Romans defeated these people at the Battle of Bibracte. For 10 points each:
Name this tribe of Celtic people who in the 2nd Century B.C. migrated south into what is now Switzerland.
The Helvetii, under the leadership of Orgetorix, later migrated west to this region. The Roman Empire eventually lost this province to forces of the Franks, Visigoths, and Burgundians.
This man was governor of Gaul at the time of the Helvetian migration. This Roman dictator famously crossed the Rubicon and ushered in the transition from Republic to Empire.
Helvetii [accept Helvetian people; prompt on, BUT DO NOT REVEAL “Gauls”]
Gaul
Gaius Julius Caesar
This country lost 70% of its adult male population as a result of the War of the Triple Alliance, for 10 points each:
Name this country, which attempted to take on the triple alliance of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay. Its capital is Asunción.
Paraguay was led through that disastrous war by this dictator, who refused to capitulate to the triple alliance until he was killed at the Battle of Cerro Corá.
After the war, Argentina and Paraguay asked this US president to arbitrate ownership of some contested land. The region is now named for this president, who defeated Samuel Tilden in his bid for the presidency.
Republic of Paraguay
Francisco Solano López [prompt on partial]
Rutherford B. Hayes
Name some members of America’s illustrious founding generation who all hail from the great Commonwealth of Virginia. For 10 points each:
This man was secretary of state under John Adams before being appointed the fourth Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Andrew Jackson challenged this man to enforce his decision in Worcester v. Georgia.
Marshall’s second cousin, with whom he often feuded, was this author of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom and winner of the election of 1800.
While writing the Declaration, Jefferson ‘borrowed’ from this principle author the Virginia Declaration of Rights, a staunch Anti-Federalist.
John James Marshall
Thomas Jefferson
George Mason
Phillip Glass composed the music for <em>The Fog of War</em>, a documentary about this man that contains eleven lessons on warfare. For 10 points each:
Name this longest-serving Secretary of Defense who served under both Kennedy and Johnson and also helped rebuild the Ford Motor Company.
In the fifth lesson of The Fog of War, McNamara argues for proportionality in war and criticizes the World War II fire bombings of cities such as Nagoya and Osaka in this country.
Lesson seven is “Belief and seeing are both often wrong”, which McNamara ties to this August 2, 1964 confrontation between the USS Maddox and Vietnamese torpedo boats.
Robert Strange McNamara
Japan [accept Nippon]
Gulf of Tonkin incident [accept Tonkin Gulf incident]
This politician is currently being considered for a National Hero title despite being the most monetarily corrupt leader in world history, having embezzled over $15 billion. For 10 points each:
Name this politician, his country’s second president. He wrested power from his predecessor by carrying out an aggressive anti-communist purge.
Suharto strongly espoused this political ideology, whose name is an amalgam of two Old Javanese words meaning “Five Principles”. Its tenets include democracy and belief in one God.
Pancasila was the foundational political ideology of this Southeast Asian island nation, the world’s most populous Muslim majority country. This country is spread across over seventeen thousand islands including Java and Sumatra.
Suharto
Pancasila
Indonesia
Answer some questions about conquering the interior regions of South American countries, for 10 points each:
General Julio Roca led the Argentine Conquest of the Desert to claim and settle this southern region of Argentina, then inhabited by Native Americans.
The bandeirantes crossed the Tordesillas line and led settlement expeditions on behalf of this modern-day country. They added the Mato Grosso region, among others, to their homeland.
The Chilean Occupation of Araucanía was a campaign into the territory of these native peoples. Nowadays, these people make up the second-largest ethnic group in Chile, after whites.
Patagonia
Brazil
Mapuche
This battle began on July 1st, 1863 and saw fighting at a peach orchard and Little Round Top. For 10 points each:
Name this Pennsylvania battle, the bloodiest of the Civil War.
At the Battle of Gettysburg, this physical feature was the site of the north section of the Union’s “fish-hook” line. This high point overlooks downtown Gettysburg.
This event on the final day of the Battle of Gettysburg has been referred to as the “high-water mark of the Confederacy”. This Confederate assault was led by James Longstreet and a namesake general, and was repelled by George Meade.
Battle of Gettysburg
Cemetery Hill
George Pickett’s Charge
Answer some questions about Leopold II’s brutal rule over the Congo Free State, for 10 points each:
Leopold II solidified his claim to the Congo region during an 1885 conference held in this German city.
Leopold initially extracted profit from the colony in the form of ivory until the invention of the automobile caused a spike in the demand for this raw material, obtained from tree sap.
One famous Punch comic depicts Leopold as one of these animals harassing and strangling a black Congolese rubber collector.
Berlin
rubber
snake
In response to one of this senator’s questions, Attorney General Jeff Sessions claimed he did not have any communications with the Russians, for 10 points each:
This senator later claimed that Sessions had lied under oath to Congress. Before his election to the Senate in 2008, this senator wrote for Saturday Night Live and hosted a radio show.
Senator Franken hails from this state, and is a member of its Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. This state’s largest metropolitan area is the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul.
In 2008, Franken barely clinched the victory over this incumbent Republican senator. The final margin of victory, by 312 votes, led to an eight-month recount process.
Alan “Al” Franken
Minnesota
Norman “Norm” Coleman
In this conflict, Governor William Berkeley “bared his breast” and challenged this event’s namesake leader to shoot him. For 10 points each:
Name this 1676 conflict in which frontier-dwelling colonists forcibly demanded that the governor protect them against the Native American threat.
Bacon’s Rebellion occurred in this first British colony. Bacon and his men burned Jamestown, this colony’s capital, to the ground.
This largest slave rebellion in colonial American history killed about 90 people in South Carolina. The literate slave Jemmy, also known as Cato, led a group of Catholic slaves in this rebellion.
Bacon’s Rebellion
Virginia
Stono Rebellion [accept Stono River Rebellion]
France and Israel supported the secessionist region in this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this war in which Colonel Emeka Ojukwu declared an independent republic in 1967. This post-colonial conflict saw the capture of Port Harcourt by the Federal Military Government.
Port Harcourt was a crucial city on the Niger River Delta, from which Shell was the first company to commercially export this natural resource. An incident at Kwale involved the explosion of a “field” of this valuable fossil fuel.
The three largest ethnic groups in Nigeria are the Hausa-Fulani, the Yoruba, and this group. The persecution of this ethnic group, which made up the majority of Biafra, prompted secession.
Nigerian Civil War [accept Biafran War]
oil [accept petroleum or crude oil]
Igbo
Russia was feeling really revolutionary in the early 20th century. For 10 points each:
Name this last Emperor of Russia, an unpopular Romanov who was responsible for a massacre of protesters on Bloody Sunday and abdicated after the February Revolution of 1917.
A major reason for Nicholas II’s unpopularity was his responsibility for Russia’s disastrous failure in this war, which began with an attack on the Russian fleet in Port Arthur in 1904.
One leader of the February Revolution was this Prime Minister of the provisional government, who launched a namesake offensive against Austria-Hungary and Germany before being deposed by Lenin in the October Revolution.
Nicholas II
Russo-Japanese War
Alexander Karensky
This Harvard graduate left the Department of Justice to work for Verizon in 2001. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian-American chair of a federal agency who said net neutrality’s “days were numbered” under President Trump.
Ajit Pai is the chairman of this federal regulatory agency which replaced the Federal Radio Commission. On December 14th, it will vote on whether to keep the Open Internet Order.
These two bills, introduced in 2012, created internet protests in their attempt to combat online copyright infringement and counterfeit goods trafficking. Name either.
Ajit Pai
Federal Communications Commission
Stop Online Piracy Act OR PROTECT IP Act [accept SOPA OR PIPA]
Name these political entities that heavily relied on maritime trade, for 10 points each.
This confederation of German towns and merchants dominated the Baltic Sea trade. After defeating Waldemar IV’s forces, this federation received a veto over successors to the Danish throne.
This city, dependent on the Adriatic and Mediterranean Sea trades, contains a massive plaza named for its patron saint, Mark. This Italian city is well-known for its canals.
As a result of their navigational skills and trade, the alphabet of these people forms the basis of many of the alphabets of Europe. They also founded the colony of Carthage.
Hanseatic League [or Hansa]
Venice
Phoenicians
Pope Leo X ex-communicated this man in 1521 after this man protested the selling of indulgences. For 10 points each:
Name this German monk who allegedly nailed his Ninety-Five Theses to the door of All-Saints Church in Wittenberg, thereby beginning the Protestant Reformation.
This “peace” established the principle of cuius regio, eius religio. This treaty between Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and the Schmalkaldic League allowed rulers to choose between Lutheranism and Catholicism in their region.
This country’s reformation, which led many people to convert to Calvinism, utilized texts such as the Book of Common Order and First Book of Discipline.
Martin Luther
Peace of Augsburg [accept Augsburg Settlement; prompt on “Augsburg”]
Scotland
Name some states that adopted Christianity early as their official religion, for 10 points each:
The first Christian state was this modern-day country, following the conversion of the Royal House of the Arsacids. This nation’s current capital is Yerevan.
About 80 years later, this empire adopted Christianity with the Edict of Thessalonica. This empire’s ruler Constantine I first allowed Christianity in his realms with the Edict of Milan.
After King Ezana’s conversion to Christianity, his empire in this modern-day African country adopted the religion. Services in this country are performed in Oromo, Amharic, and Ge’ez.
Armenia
Roman Empire [accept specific answers, like Western/Eastern Roman Empire and Byzantine Empire]
Ethiopia
Answer the following about Prohibition, for 10 points each:
This constitutional amendment instituted the policy of Prohibition. It was later repealed with the passage of the 21st Amendment.
Congress passed this law, named after the chair of the House judiciary committee, to enforce the provisions of the 18th Amendment. President Wilson vetoed this bill, but his veto was overridden.
Together, Johnny Torrio and this man made millions by bootlegging in Chicago during the Prohibition era. This infamous gangster masterminded the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre.
18th Amendment
Volstead Act
Alphonse “Al” Gabriel Capone
Albert Speer, Adolf Hitler’s chief architect, designed this chancellery for the Third Reich. For 10 points each:
This monumental building would have had a secret passage to Hitler’s palace, had WW2 not delayed its construction. An eagle clutching the world would have sat atop its enormous dome.
Speer also made plans to completely revamp this home of the Brandenburg Gate with wider streets and an improved railway system. This city is the capital of Germany.
The Volkshalle’s portico supported by ten columns was largely inspired by this Roman temple built by Hadrian whose portico has sixteen Corinthian columns.
Volkshalle [accept Großehall and Ruhmeshalle]
Berlin
the Roman Pantheon
One of the most famous and effective commanders of this group was Ahmad Shah Massoud, known as the “Lion of the Panjshir.” For 10 points each:
Name this rebel group, that received financial support and stinger missiles from the U.S. under Operation Cyclone.
In a war with the USSR in this country from 1979 to 1989, the insurgent mujahideen fought against the Soviet army and the newly formed Democratic Republic of this country.
This Soviet leader, who succeeded Khrushchev, agreed to a full intervention in Afghanistan. His aggressive foreign policy was demonstrated by his invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
mujahideen
Afghanistan
Leonid Brezhnev
He was succeeded by Zidan Abu Maali in Marrakech and Abou Fares Abdallah in Fes, for 10 points each:
Name this fifth son of Mohammed ash-Sheikh who, after the death of his brother Abd al-Malik, took power in 1578 as the sultan of Morocco.
Al-Mansur’s brother died in the battle of Ksar El Kebir, which also allowed Henry the Cardinal to take power in this Iberian kingdom. Prince Henry the Navigator also hailed from this nation.
At the Battle of Tondibi, the Moroccan army defeated the forces of Askia Ishaq II, who in 1588 took power in this African empire, a center of Trans-Saharan trade.
Ahmad al-Mansur
Portugal
Songhai Empire
Amidst the turmoil caused by this act, British distributor Andrew Oliver was hanged in effigy in Massachusetts. For 10 points each:
Name this 1765 British parliamentary act that imposed a tax on many printed materials in the colonies.
This parliamentary act reinforced mercantilist theory by allowing British colonists to only import goods directly from England and only export goods on British ships.
This event occurred in 1772 when a British vessel that had been enforcing the Navigation Acts ran aground near Newport, Rhode Island. Abraham Whipple subsequently led a group of colonists who boarded and burned the namesake vessel in this event.
Stamp Act of 1765
Navigation Acts
Gaspee Affair
This man served as high commissioner in Egypt from 1915 to 1917 as well as being named an administrator in the British Raj. For 10 points each:
Name this Englishman who wrote a series of letters to Hussein bin Ali in which the two discussed the future of the Ottoman Empire.
McMahon resigned his post in Egypt following this agreement between Great Britain and France, officially published by the Bolshevik government. This agreement partitioned spheres of influence in the Middle East, including British control of Jordan and French control of Syria.
Under the Sykes-Picot Agreement, the British governed this area surrounding Jerusalem. This modern-day Arab state, contrasted with Israel, is often said to include the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Sir Arthur Henry McMahon
Sykes-Picot Agreement
Palestine
He pioneered the use of combined arms during the Thirty Years’ War, earning the nickname ‘Lion of the North’, for 10 points each:
Name this Swedish monarch whose greatest victory came at the First Battle of Breitenfeld. He was killed at the Battle of Lützen in 1618.
This man served as Gustavus Adolphus’s closest confidant and as Lord High Chancellor of Sweden. During the Thirty Years’ War, he served as Governor-General of occupied Prussia.
Oxenstierna also served as a confidant to this Swedish queen, who served for just four years before abdicating, converting to Catholicism, and living as a guest of five consecutive popes.
Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustavus II]
Axel Oxenstierna
Queen Christina Alexandra
Before the Aztecs, the Zapotecs lived in the present-day Mexican state of Oaxaca. For 10 points each:
The Zapotecs adopted this sport from the Olmecs. This sport was played with a solid rubber object, and the Aztecs may have used it to defuse conflicts and resolve disputes.
Ballgame courts were excavated in this center of Zapotec civilization, which may have been called Danipagauche in the Zapotec people’s language.
At Monte Albán, excavators have found a stone slab with these symbols, depicting various conquered city-states. The ancient Egyptian language gave the broader term to these symbols depicting words or phrases.
Mesoamerican ballgame [or Ōllamaliztli]
Monte Albán
hieroglyphs
Name these groups fighting in Syria, for 10 points each:
Over the latter half of 2017, this group lost much of its territory, after being ousted from Raqqa. This organization declared its caliphate in 2014 in Mosul.
This Salafist rebel group is headquartered in northwest Syria’s Idlib Province. In 2016, this group split from al-Qaeda.
This country’s military force, led by Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari, includes the paramilitary Basij force.
ISIS [accept ISIL, Daesh, and the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria]
al-Nusra Front [accept Jabhat Fateh al-Sham or Jabhat al-Nusra]
The Islamic Republic of Iran
Known as El Libertador, this man is considered a hero of the Latin American independence movements. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who became the first president of Gran Colombia as well as the first president of a namesake South American country.
At the Battle of Boyaca, Bolivar enlisted the crucial help of these Latin American cattle herders, who comprised most of the cavalry units of the independence movements.
One of Bolivia’s capitals is named after this Venezuelan lieutenant of Bolivar, who helped him win at the Battle of Ayacucho and succeeded him as President of Bolivia.
Simón Bolívar
Llaneros
Antonio José de Sucre
This man served with the King’s African Rifles and assisted in quelling the Mau Mau Rebellion in Kenya, for 10 points each:
Name this politician, who conducted a coup to become the dictator of Uganda. While in office, he granted himself several titles, claiming he was the uncrowned King of Scotland.
As major general of the army, Amin conducted the coup as because he suspected that this Ugandan president was on the verge of arresting him for misappropriating army funds.
As dictator, Amin waged an economic war against and expelled immigrants and Ugandans from this country, also a British colony.
Idi Amin
Milton Obote
India
Answer the following about the 1988 presidential election, for 10 points each:
Name this winner of the election, Ronald Reagan’s vice president and former director of the CIA.
This Greek-American governor of Massachusetts was the Democratic nominee for president. He exonerated Sacco and Vanzetti and took an embarrassing tank photo.
This man, the subject of an brutal Bush attack ad, participated in Gov. Dukakis’s weekend prison pass program but failed to return to prison, committing armed robbery, assault, and rape instead.
George H. W. Bush [accept Bush 41 and Bush Sr.]
Michael Dukakis
Willie Horton
In one section of this work, the exploits of the hero Rostam are detailed. For 10 points each:
Name this long epic poem written by Ferdowsi, the national epic of a large cultural region in the Middle East and Central Asia.
Shahnameh, to some extent, talks about the historical past of the Persian Empire in this modern-day country.
This 13th century Iranian Sunni poet, scholar, and mystic wrote the Masnavi. His most commonly used name is a Nisba which indicates that he is “from Roman Anatolia.”
Shahnameh
Islamic Republic of Iran (or Jomhuri-ye Eslāmi-ye Irān)
Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Rūmī (or Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Balkhī or Mevlânâ or Mawlānā or Mevlevî or Mawlawī) &lt;Cohen&gt;
This figure’s relationship with her servant John Brown after the death of her husband has been frequently posited as romantic. For 10 points each:
Name this figure whose diary describes that husband as “MY DEAREST DEAREST DEAR” [capitals sic] and how “we kissed each other again &amp; again!” This figure was at the center of the bedchamber crisis and the Hastings affair.
Victoria wore black for the remainder of her life after this husband of hers died. He worked with Henry Cole to plan the very successful Great Exhibition.
At the Great Exhibition, some of the first public examples of these utilities were demonstrated, in which they cost a penny to use. Thomas Crapper would enter into the production of these utilities a decade later.
Queen Victoria
Prince Albert
flush toilets (accept WCs or water closets; prompt on indoor plumbing or bathrooms; prompt on crappers in honor of Thomas, I guess) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This holiday is typically accompanied by the usage of red poppies. For 10 points each:
Name this fall holiday. In Britain it’s followed by Remembrance Sunday, and in New Zealand and Australia it’s superseded by Anzac Day.
This type of action frequently accompanies Armistice Day, usually taking place for two minutes. It was largely introduced in US public schools as a replacement for public prayer after the latter was ruled unconstitutional.
The actual armistice was negotiated by this French marshal in his private train car in the forest of Compiègne. This marshal prophetically described the terms as “not a peace,” but only an “armistice for twenty years.”
Armistice Day (or November 11th 1918; prompt on Veteran’s Day, or Remembrance Day)
moment of silence (accept anything similar that describes being silent)
Marshal Ferdinand Foch &lt;Horton&gt;
This product was one of the major trading components of the British East India company. For 10 points each:
Name this drink, a mainstay of British culture. One variety of this drink was named after the British Prime Minister Charles Grey.
Besides naming tea, the Earl Grey also helped architect one of the bills known by this name that restructured the British electoral system. A later act of this name in 1867 further increased the franchise.
The Earl Grey was part of the unity government the Ministry of All the Talents created by this PM. This man succeeded William Pitt the Younger in his first appointment as PM.
tea
Reform Act (accept Representation of the People Act, or Great Reform Act, either 1832 or 1867)
Lord Grenville (or William Wyndham Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville) &lt;Kuang&gt;
In the aftermath of this event, the attorney for the defense quipped that “facts are stubborn things”. For 10 points each:
Name this event that occurred a few days after the death of Christopher Seider. The building near the setting of this event was later nicknamed “Butcher’s Hall.”
This man was the first person killed in the Boston Massacre, and consequently, perhaps the first killed in the American Revolution. This man was perhaps a runaway slave from Framingham, Massachusetts.
To ensure a fair trial, this Patriot was appointed as the lawyer for the British soldiers, successfully winning an acquittal for six of the soldiers and their captain, Thomas Preston. This dude later became the second president.
Boston Massacre (or Incident on King Street)
Crispus Attucks
John Adams (do not accept or prompt on “John Quincy Adams”) &lt;Suh/Kuang&gt;
This endeavor was compared to Rice playing Texas in football in one speech, which was kinda insulting since that speech was given at Rice University. For 10 points each:
Name this endeavor, which along with “other things,” the speaker of that speech said we choose to do “not because they are easy, but because they are hard.”
The space program was aided by scientists like Werner von Braun who had been recruited from Germany through this program that funnelled Nazi scientists into the US to work in the military and on the Space Race.
The first mission to land on the moon was the 11th mission of this U.S. space program. The thirteenth mission of this program barely made it back to Earth after someone reported having a “problem” that turned out to be a blown oxygen tank.
going to the Moon (accept anything about landing a man on the Moon; prompt on going to space or other less specific answers)
Operation Paperclip
Apollo (accept Apollo 11 or Apollo 13) &lt;Kuang&gt;
At the Battle of El Roble, this man gave the order, “Live with honor, or die with glory!” For 10 points each:
Name this founding father of Chile. With the leader of the Army of the Andes, this man helped win the Battle of Chacabuco.
O’Higgins had allied with this revolutionary, who helped obtain independence for many South American nations like Argentina and Peru. This man met with Simon de Bolivar at the Guayaquil Conference.
O’Higgins helped established one of the first independent governments in Chile, which was known by this Spanish term. In English, this term usually refers to military governments, as in the one that took control by a coup d'état in Thailand in 2014.
Bernardo O’Higgins
José de San Martín
junta [“HOON-tah”] &lt;Kuang&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things related to 69 AD, or the Year of the Four Emperors:
The succession crisis began after this Roman emperor offed himself after multiple revolts began. He probably didn’t actually fiddle while Rome burned, but the legend’s indicative of his popularity then and now.
This general became the first emperor after Nero’s death, ruling for about seven months. He was advised by a trio known as the “Three Pedagogues.”
The final of the four emperors was this man, whose victory began the Flavian dynasty. His son Titus completed his construction of the Colosseum.
Nero (or Nerō Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus)
Galba (or Servius Sulpicius Galba Caesar Augustus)
Vespasian (or Titus Flāvius Caesar Vespasiānus Augustus) &lt;Kuang&gt;
During a period translatable as the “wander year,” members of these organizations would travel to learn their craft. For 10 points each:
Name these medieval organizations of craftsmen usually centered around a single trade. They usually consisted of “master” craftsmen and apprentices.
This “League” was an association of merchant guilds that rose to briefly dominate trade during the medieval ages. It was centered at Lubeck in North Germany.
The Hanse became involved in political issues as well, such as the Swedish War of Liberation, in which Gustav Vasa deposed a Norwegian-Danish king of this name as regent of the Kalmar Union. That “second” king of this name had carried out the Stockholm Bloodbath.
guilds (prompt on trade unions)
Hanseatic League
Christian II &lt;Kuang&gt;
Canadian judge Bernd Zabel was was suspended after wearing a hat with this phrase written on it into the courtroom. For 10 points each:
Name this official slogan of the 2016 Trump presidential campaign. “Millions” of the aforementioned hats with this slogan were reportedly sold.
Thousands of pink, cat-eared “pussyhats” were knitted for this January 2017 event. This event was a feminist response to the Presidential Inauguration held in the same place earlier that month.
This U.S. Representative notably wears large, colorful hats into Congress. She entered national news after criticizing a call by Trump to war widow Myeshia Johnson, whose husband La David had been killed in Niger.
“Make America Great Again” (prompt on MAGA)
Women’s March on Washington (prompt on March on Washington; accept Women’s March in general, i.e. in any cities)
Frederica Smith Wilson (accept Frederica Patricia Smith) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This man’s wife Theodora was an actress, which at that time in history likely included prostitution. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor. His namesake legal “Code” was produced with the help of his official Tribonian.
Justinian faced an attempted revolt in the Nika riots, which were led by people who performed this activity. This sport was performed at tracks like at the Hippodrome, or in Rome, at the Circus Maximus.
Justinian was ably assisted by a “John” from this province, at least until the latter fell out of political favor. This province was located in ancient Asia Minor and corresponds to modern day Anatolia.
Justinian I (or Justinian the Great)
chariot racing (accept word forms; prompt on “racing” or “horse racing”)
Cappadocia &lt;Kuang&gt;
The psychologists the Clarks presented research from their “doll test” studies in this case. For 10 points each:
Name this Supreme Court case that struck down the “separate but equal” principle behind school segregation in the United States.
Brown v. Board was presided over by this Chief Justice, who presided over several surprisingly liberal civil rights decisions despite being appointed by the Republican president Eisenhower.
Under Warren, the Court struck down state senate inequality on the basis of this principle in Reynolds v. Sims. The Court had previously discussed this principle in Baker v. Carr.
Brown v. Board of Education
Earl Warren
one person, one vote (accept man or woman or any other obvious synonym in place of “person,” but otherwise require the exact phrase) &lt;Horton/Kuang&gt;
One person of this rank was fond of using medical metaphors comparing his country to a patient, who must be restrained by the doctor to save his life. For 10 points each:
Name this rank that described a seven-year “Regime” named for people of this rank in a certain European country. Georgios Papadopoulos held this military rank when he led a 1967 coup, beginning that Regime.
The Regime of the Colonels was a junta that governed this European country. It came to power in a coup that involved tanks rolling through the streets of Athens.
The Regime of the Colonels collapsed when Turkey invaded this island, which was then partitioned along the Green Line. Supporters of enosis want to return control of this island to Greece.
colonels (accept syntagmatárchis; accept Regime of the Colonels; accept kathestós ton Syntagmatarchón)
Kingdom of Greece (or vasíleio tis Elládas; or the Hellenic Republic; or Ellinikí Dimokratía)
Cyprus (or Kýpros; or Kıbrıs) &lt;Chu&gt;
Get ahead in this game by naming some things related to people who lost theirs. For 10 points each:
This device was France’s standard method of execution until 1981. Some of its noted victims include King Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette.
After Roman triumvirate Crassus tried to invade this empire and failed, his was head was cut off and filled with molten gold in reference to his famous wealth.
A man who attempted to assassinate this Japanese daimyo was buried in the ground up to his neck and slowly decapitated. This first of the three great unifiers himself committed suicide after the Honnō-ji incident.
guillotine
Parthian Empire
Oda Nobunaga (do not accept or prompt on “Nobunaga” alone, as Oda is the family name in Japanese) &lt;Kuang&gt;
Name these materials important in the study of ancient China, for 10 points each:
This ceramic gives its name to an “army” of thousands of statues of soldiers, horses, and chariots found in Qin Shi Huangdi’s tomb outside of Xian [“shee-an”].
Most of our knowledge of early Chinese writing comes from oracle bones used for divinations. Oracle bones were most commonly made out of the skeletons of one of two animals; name either.
Artifacts known as ding and bianzhong [“byen-jong”] were commonly made out of this material and featured the taotie [“tao-tyeh”] motif. Unlike other civilizations which used the lost wax method to fashion this material, Chinese artisans usually used multi-part molds.
terracotta (accept Terracotta Army)
oxen or turtles (accept synonyms for oxen like cows or cattle; accept tortoises for turtles, I guess)
bronze (prompt on metal) &lt;Chu&gt;
Down with the system! For 10 points each:
Name this system of political philosophy first articulated by Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, who wrote that “property is theft.” It roughly advocates against government and such institutions in general.
Anarchists were highly prominent in the many working class revolutions in this year of the 19th century. Uprisings in Italy, France, Germany, and elsewhere led to this year being called the Spring of Nations.
This organization of working class peoples was filled with anarchists, though it tended to also have infighting with socialists and communists. The official name of this group was the International Workingmen's Association, and Marx was a prominent member.
anarchism (accept word forms)
1848
First International (prompt on just International) &lt;Kuang&gt;
One dictator of this country argued that it was a greater crime to kill an ant than a man, since people get reincarnated and ants do not. For 10 points each:
Name this Central American country which was ruled by Maximilian Hernández Martínez in 1932 when thousands of peasants, including their leader Farabundo Martí, were killed in “La Matanza.”
An oligarchy made up of fourteen families dominated Salvadoran politics during the 19th and early 20th centuries. Those families got rich growing this crop, whose Arabica cultivar is grown in Brazil and Java.
Later in El Salvador’s history, a man with this profession named Óscar Romero spoke out against government atrocities before he was assassinated in 1980.
Republic of El Salvador (or República de El Salvador)
coffee (or Coffea)
archbishop of San Salvador (accept prelate; prompt on Roman Catholic priest or clergyman) &lt;Chu&gt;
After this man became president, many of his opponents called him “His Fraudulency.” For 10 points each:
Name this president who was elected over Samuel Tilden by agreeing to the Compromise of 1877. His election marked the end of Reconstruction.
Hayes fired three Stalwarts, including future president Chester A. Arthur, from the Custom House of this state. Political machines operating in this state included the Boss Tweed-led Tammany Hall.
When this man was selected to be Hayes’ running mate, Hayes did not know him very well, even asking, “Who is [this man]?”
Rutherford B. Hayes
New York
William A. Wheeler &lt;Suh&gt;
This man erected the “Common Program,” in which his party allied with the Communist Party. For 10 points each:
Name this politician. He was twice forced into cohabitive governments in the 80s and 90s.
Mitterrand controversially authorized the annual laying of a wreath on this Frenchman’s grave. This man had gained honor as Marshal during World War I, but was convicted of treason after presiding over Vichy France.
Mitterrand also authorized the destruction and subsequent cover-up of the Rainbow Warrior, a ship chartered by this environmentalist group. In 2014, members of this group moronically trampled over the Nazca Lines.
François Mitterrand
Philippe Pétain
Greenpeace &lt;Kuang&gt;
During one part of this battle, the general Aristides slaughtered a garrison of enemy soldiers stationed on the island of Psyttaleia [“sye-TAY-lee-uh”]. For 10 points each:
Name this mostly naval battle in which the allied Greek states led by Themistocles defeated the forces of Xerxes I. Xerxes’ brother, Ariabignes, was killed during this battle.
This empire’s military conflicts against the Greeks began when it tried to crush a revolt in Ionia, followed by successive invasion attempts.
The second Persian invasion ended with the Battle of Plataea and this other naval battle, both of which allegedly occurred on the same day.
Battle of Salamis
First Persian Empire (accept Achaemenid Empire)
Battle of Mycale [“mye-KALL”] &lt;Suh&gt;
One explanation for this city’s name translates it as “gate of god.” For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Middle-Eastern city-state. It was ruled at various times by kings such as Hammurabi and Nebuchadnezzar II.
Nebuchadnezzar erected a “hanging” one of these installations in Babylon that became one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.
The Babylonians were also known by this term, especially in Biblical references. Nebuchadnezzar was a part of the dynasty of the Neo-Babylonian Empire named for this term, which also refers to a modern Assyrian Christian denomination.
Babylon (accept Neo-Babylonian Empire)
Hanging Gardens of Babylon
Chaldeans (accept word forms) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This dispute started after an explosion in Havana Harbor. For 10 points each:
Name this late 19th century war triggered by the explosion of the USS Maine. During this war, the US gained the territories of Puerto Rico and the Philippines.
Newspaper publishers Hearst and Pulitzer used this colorful exaggeration technique to sell more newspapers during the Spanish-American War.
This “amendment” was passed by the US Congress to ensure that US troops would not take control of Cuba following the Spanish-American War. It was followed by the Platt Amendment, which allowed for some control after all.
Spanish-American War
yellow journalism (accept word forms)
Teller Amendment &lt;Horton&gt;
In the 1930s, a weak response to the Abyssinian Crisis led to Italian control of this nation. For 10 points each:
Name this African nation. This country had defended itself against an earlier Italian invasion by winning the Battle of Adwa in 1896 under Emperor Menelik II, leading to the signing of the Treaty of Addis Ababa.
This African nation also resisted European colonization under charismatic muslim leaders like the Mahdi, but was decisively crushed at the Battle of Omdurman. Mahdist forces had also helped retake Khartoum, leading to the death of Chinese Gordon.
Soon after the Battle of Omdurman, this religious leader with an alliterative nickname began the 20-year Somaliland campaign against the British.
Ethiopia
Sudan
Mohammed Abdullah Hassan (or the Mad Mullah) &lt;Suh&gt;
According to legend, this woman found her husband’s mistress Rosamund Clifford in a labyrinth, whereupon this woman forced her to commit suicide by either dagger or poison. For 10 points each:
Name this figure. She was married to Louis VII before annulling that marriage and entering into her more famous marriage.
Eleanor of Aquitaine was most famously married to this king of England, with whom she had John and Richard the Lionheart.
Andreas Capellanus records that Eleanor presided over a Court of Love, where she ruled on romantic decisions according to this medieval code. Knights were supposed to by abide this social ethos of honor and decency.
Eleanor of Aquitaine
Henry II (prompt on just Henry)
chivalry (or chivalric code) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This country declared itself to be an empire in 1897 before being annexed by Japan in 1910. For 10 points each:
Name this country that developed the hangul alphabet system during the Joseon dynasty. In modern times, it’s split into two countries by the demilitarized zone.
This Joseon king developed hangul and encouraged the development of scientific technology. He is the only king of Joseon with the appellation “the Great.”
Civilians who rose up to fight alongside traditional military to protect Korea during various invasions were often called by this name.
Korea (accept Korean Empire; accept North or South Korea)
Sejong the Great (accept Chungnyeong)
uibyeong (accept righteous army; accept reasonable equivalents of “army”) &lt;Suh&gt;
Let’s talk about our favorite expatriate Polish-born military commanders, for 10 points each:
Konstantin Rokossovsky was disgraced during the “Great Purge” of this dictator, but later became the Marshal of the Soviet Union. This dictator succeeded Lenin.
This Polish national and the “father of the American cavalry” died while leading a charge during the Battle of Savannah.
While retreating from this battle, Józef Poniatowski drowned in the Elster River when the French prematurely blew up a bridge before he could cross it. The common nickname for this battle comes from the presence of Russian, Prussian, Austrian, Swedish, French, Italian, and German troops.
Joseph Stalin
Casimir Pulaski
Battle of Leipzig (or Battle of the Nations) &lt;Suh&gt;
The Brady Bill was named after a man who was disabled after being shot by this man. For 10 points each:
Name this American criminal who was released from a psychiatric hospital in September 2016. His most famous crime was allegedly concocted as a plot to impress Jodie Foster.
Hinckley failed to assassinate this Republican in 1981, just two months after he was sworn in as president.
After Reagan was shot, Alexander Haig made this infamous statement during a press conference, apparently forgetting the Speaker of the House and President pro tempore’s positions in the line of presidential succession. We want the four or five words that preceded, “in the White House.”
John (Warnock) Hinckley, Jr.
Ronald (Wilson) Reagan
“I’m in control here, in the White House” (accept I am in place of I’m) &lt;Chu&gt;
This leader vowed to fight “tigers and flies” in an effort to reduce corruption in his country. For 10 points each:
Name this current General Secretary of the Communist Party of China and President of the People’s Republic of China. He oversaw an anti-corruption campaign that led to the conviction of Zhou Yongkang.
The “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era” was added to this party document. Other parts of this document describe the Deng Xiaoping Theory and the Mao Zedong Thought.
Xi Jinping defined this two-word phrase as “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.” Its American counterpart is the belief that every person should have the opportunity to achieve prosperity through hard work.
Xi Jinping (or Xí Jìnpíng)
Constitution of the Communist Party of China (or Zhōngguó Gòngchǎndǎng Zhāngchéng; prompt on just Constitution; do not accept or prompt on “Constitution of the People’s Republic of China” or equivalents)
Chinese Dream (or Zhōngguó Mèng) &lt;Park&gt;
Answer the following about mass hysterias in history, none of which involve Pumpkin Spice Lattes, for 10 points each:
This modern nation was home to a 1962 incident in which schoolgirls could not stop laughing for days on end. The victims lived in Tanganyika, which merged with Zanzibar to become this present-day country.
In 1518, residents of Strasbourg were afflicted with an inability to stop performing this action, which led many of them to die of exhaustion. Random outbreaks of people doing this thing used to be named for St. Vitus.
In 1938, unsubstantiated reports of a “slasher” paralyzed a British town of this name. Another city of this name was leveled in 1917 by a massive ship explosion and provides Boston a Christmas tree every year as thanks for its subsequent aid.
United Republic of Tanzania (or Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania)
dancing (accept word forms)
Halifax &lt;Chu&gt;
This man died after trying to kidnap a chief of Hawaii. For 10 points each:
Name this explorer who first charted the coast of “New South Wales” in 1770.
The First Fleet of the British Empire arrived at this site of the first penal colony in Australia. It was originally called Stingray Harbour by Cook, but it was changed due to findings by Joseph Banks.
These escaped convicts were known for their survival skills in the harsh environment of Australia outside the colonies. The first was John “Black” Caesar.
Captain James Cook
Botany Bay
bushrangers &lt;Horton&gt;
Byzantine emperor Alexios IV helped launch the fourth of these campaigns, promising participants 100,000 silver marks if they deposed his uncle Alexios III. For 10 points each:
Name these holy campaigns. The first was undertaken to reconquer Jerusalem at the prodding of Pope Urban II.
This other Byzantine emperor conquered Bulgaria, earning his most famous nickname by blinding every 99 out of 100 Bulgarians captured. He was also ascribed the title “Porphyrogénnētos.”
The last Byzantine emperor, Constantine XI, perished in the course of this 1453 event carried out by Mehmed II. To this day, some Greeks still believe Constantine has been mythically preserved and will return.
crusades
Basil II (or Basil the Bulgar Slayer; prompt on just Basil)
sack of Constantinople (accept anything indicating the final fall of Constantinople) &lt;Jin&gt;
Answer some questions about the Hōjō clan, for 10 points each:
The Hōjō were the effective rulers during this shogunate named for a city that’s today famous for a large Buddha statue. This shogunate took power after the Heian period.
Hōjō rulers fought back Kublai Khan’s attempts to invade Japan, aided by these “divine winds.” During World War II, this term referred to pilots who intentionally flew their planes into American ships.
The “Later,” but unrelated Hōjō clan were prominent during the Sengoku period, also known by this name. A period in Chinese history also held this name indicative of the prevalence of conflict during both the Japanese and Chinese eras.
Kamakura shogunate
kamikaze
Warring States period &lt;Chu&gt;
The oldest veterans’ memorial in the U.S. is in this state where colonists were tortured to death by Narragansett Indians at a site called Nine Men’s Misery. For 10 points each:
Name this state. A 1663 charter incorporated Providence Plantations into the land that would become this state, the smallest by area in the Union.
Providence Plantations was founded by this man after he was exiled from Massachusetts. This man’s governance was characterized by such crazy ideas as religious tolerance and actually being nice to Indians.
In 1772, Rhode Island was the site of the burning of this British customs ship after it ran aground, leading to inflamed tensions between the British government and colonists.
State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations
Roger Williams
HMS Gaspee (accept the Gaspee Affair) &lt;Chu&gt;
Animals have it rough, often because they’re hanging out with humans having similarly rough times. For 10 points each:
Hundreds of these animals were used to deliver messages during the World Wars. 32 of such animals were awarded the Dickin Medal for animal military service.
Ramesses II apparently had a pet lion he took with him into this battle against the Hittites. It was potentially the largest chariot battle ever, and the treaty that resulted may have been the oldest recorded treaty in history.
This adorable bear was purchased by Polish soldiers during World War II, being taught to move artillery and apparently enjoying eating cigarettes. His name is a diminutive for “joyful warrior.”
pigeons (accept types like homing pigeon or carrier pigeon)
Battle of Kadesh
Wojtek [“VOY-tek”] &lt;Kuang&gt;
2017 marked the 50th anniversary of this court case that overturned the previous <em>Pace v. Alabama</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this court case that invalidated laws forbidding interracial marriage. This case centered on Mildred and Richard, a couple from Virginia who had been arrested after police invaded their house on an anonymous tip.
In 2015, Obergefell v. Hodges declared that denying this action was unconstitutional based on the Fourteenth Amendment and precedent from cases like Loving. In celebration, the White House was lit in rainbow colors.
Two decades after Loving, this court case upheld the right of Georgia to criminalize sodomy, with Chief Justice Burger citing “ancient roots” of prohibitions against it. This case was upturned in 2003 in Lawrence v. Texas.
Loving v. Virginia
same-sex marriage (accept gay marriage and synonyms for marriage like wedding; accept marriage equality)
Bowers v. Hardwick &lt;Owen&gt;
This company attracted much public outrage after Dr. David Dao was forcibly removed from one of its flights on April 9, 2017. For 10 points each:
Name this major U.S. airline whose three largest hubs are in Chicago, Houston, and Newark. This airline competes with legacy carriers like American and Delta.
This CEO of United Airlines was criticized for his handling of the incident on United Express Flight 3411. He replaced Jeff Smisek in 2015, and suffered a heart attack one month into his new job.
In 2017, United launched a farewell tour for this aircraft, which is sometimes called the “Queen of the Skies”. This four-engine widebody aircraft’s upper deck gives it a distinctive “hump” on its forward portion.
United Airlines
Oscar Munoz
Boeing 747 &lt;Park&gt;
During this war, 2000 castles, 18,000 villages and 1500 towns were destroyed by Sweden. For 10 points each:
Name this European war that began with the Defenestration of Prague in 1618 and ended with the Peace of Westphalia in 1648. It was named after a certain amount of time.
One of the many cities captured by the Swedish during the Thirty Years’ War was this German city. Centuries later, eleven members of the Israeli delegation would be murdered by Palestinian terrorists at the Olympics here.
This general commanded Bavarian forces during Munich’s occupation and was supreme commander of Habsburg forces at the war’s beginning. He was assassinated on orders of Emperor Ferdinand II when he tried to defect to the Protestant side.
Thirty Years’ War
Munich
Albrecht von Wallenstein &lt;Jin&gt;
Like many other revolts, this one began with an attempt to collect taxes. For 10 points each:
Give this generically named uprising in the 14th century led by Wat Tyler and John Ball. It would be cited 600 years later when the Thatcher government tried to institute what was seen as a poll tax.
The Peasants’ Revolt was partially inspired by this earlier and broader event, which had left many people unhappy on account of being, well, dead. This event killed millions of people across Europe as a result of plague.
At a famous sermon to the revolters, John Ball asked if “Adam” performed this action, and “Eve” this one, “then who was the gentleman?” Give either the action of Adam or Eve, but with the exact wording.
Peasants’ Revolt
Black Death (prompt on bubonic plague)
Adam delved and Eve span (accept either or both) &lt;Kuang&gt;
One myth about this figure says she was transformed into a white doe by a witch doctor Chico. For 10 points each:
Name this first European child to be born in the New World. She was named after the territory she was born in.
The Dare family lived at the Roanoke Colony, which mysteriously disappeared, only leaving behind this word carved into a tree trunk.
This Englishman was granted the royal charter to establish Roanoke. Though he never made it to North America, he did venture down the Orinoco River in search of El Dorado.
Virginia Dare (prompt on just Virginia)
“Croatoan”
Sir Walter Raleigh &lt;Owen&gt;
The Clarity Act was largely passed in response to the sovereignty movement of this region. For 10 points each:
Name this French-speaking province known for a long history of independence movements from its country. The failure of the Meech Lake Accords renewed sovereignty movements here.
This PM was forced to deal with Quebec separatism after the FLQ initiated the October Crisis by kidnapping government officials. This man responded by invoking the War Measures Act.
The conservative policies under this Premier of Quebec became known as the “Great Darkness.” Thousands of his namesake “orphans” were falsely certified as mentally ill, and his rule was followed by the Quiet Revolution.
Quebec
Pierre Trudeau (prompt on just “Trudeau”; do not accept or prompt on “Justin Trudeau,” Pierre’s son)
Maurice Duplessis &lt;Kuang&gt;
This king’s mother may have ordered the murder of his half-brother Edward the Martyr. For 10 points each:
Name this king, whose reign ended when he was forced to flee by the invasion of Sweyn Forkbeard. Contrary to popular belief, his epithet indicates that he was poorly advised and not that he wasn’t prepared.
Aethelred ordered the St. Brice’s Day Massacre in 1002 against these people, who lived in their namesake “law.” These people often sailed in longboats when carrying out raids all over Northern Europe.
Previous Viking incursions into England had included Ivar the Boneless’ expedition at the head of this force in 865. This coalition was finally defeated in 878 by Alfred the Great at the Battle of Edington.
Aethelred the Unready (or Aethelred II)
Danes (or Vikings; or Norsemen)
Great Heathen Army (or the Great Danish Army; or the Great Viking Army) &lt;Chu&gt;
This organization was implicated in the death of the politician Aldo Moro. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian ultra-right secret organization that was also associated in the death of “God’s banker” Roberto Calvi. It was headed by Licio Gelli.
This Italian politician was implicated as a member of P2. His family controls the holding company Fininvest, and was accused of hosting illicit “bunga bunga” parties.
P2 was originally founded as one of the “lodges” of this fraternal organization, a frequent target in conspiracy theories.
P2 (or Propaganda Due)
Silvio Berlusconi
Freemasons (or just Masons) &lt;Kuang&gt;
Casualties on this beach were the highest because of the roughly 150 foot cliffs overlooking it. For 10 points each:
Name this D-Day beach. Taking this beach was the responsibility of the US Army troops and was attacked by the 29th Infantry Division.
The operation with this code name involved the creation of a fictitious 1st US Army Group that was training for an assault on Calais. This operation featured the use of inflatable tanks and diverted German resources away from Normandy.
Operation Bodyguard was executed by this American General. This man also gave the order “play ball” as a code phrase to begin the relief of Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge.
Omaha Beach
Operation Fortitude
George S. Patton &lt;Jin&gt;
Want to change American history? Just write a book! For 10 points each:
Abraham Lincoln reportedly asked this woman if she was “the little woman who wrote the book that started this great war” in reference to her novel Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
“The Sporty Corvair” is the first chapter of this man’s 1965 book Unsafe at Any Speed, which accused automakers of dragging their feet implementing safety guidelines, and prompted every state but New Hampshire to pass seat-belt laws. This man also ran in the 2000 US presidential election.
The New York State Tenement House Act of 1901 was passed in response to this photo book, which showed slum conditions in New York City neighborhoods like Five Points.
Harriet Beecher Stowe
Ralph Nader
How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York (by Jacob Riis) &lt;Chu&gt;
The only surviving first person account of this empire was written by Zhou Daguan [“tschow da-gwan”] and describes its people as only wearing a single waistcloth. For 10 points each:
Name this empire most famous for its massive capital at Angkor. It frequently ran into conflict with the nearby Champa and Ayutthaya kingdoms.
The Khmer empire was located in this modern day country, inspiring the 20th century dictator Pol Pot to name his government the Khmer Rouge.
This ruler founded the Khmer Empire by breaking it away from control under Java. This man was succeeded by Indravarman I.
Khmer Empire
Kingdom of Cambodia
Jayavarman II (prompt on just “Jayavarman”) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This man was nicknamed “Nyayo,” the Swahili footsteps, for his role in succeeding the man who led his country to independence. For 10 points each:
Name this man, the second leader of a certain African nation after it gained independence. This man’s predecessor frequently called for “Harambee,” or pulling together.
Moi succeeded Jomo Kenyatta, who had led this nation to independence from British rule. The Kikuyu are the largest ethnic group in this country.
Kenyatta was arrested as one of the Kapenguria Six for leading this “Uprising” against the British. Operation Anvil during this rebellion systematically removed dissenting Kikuyu from Nairobi.
Daniel (Toroitich) arap Moi
Republic of Kenya
Mau Mau Uprising &lt;Kuang&gt;
Answer some questions about right-wing populism in Europe, for 10 points each:
The National Front nominated Marine Le Pen in this country’s 2017 presidential election. She lost the election to Emmanuel Macron, who succeeded François Hollande to become the youngest president in this country’s history.
The Law and Justice Party holds a majority of seats in this country’s legislature, which is called the Sejm [“same”]. A 2010 plane crash killed Lech Kaczyński, who was this country’s president at that time.
This 31-year-old leader of the People’s Party began negotiations with the right-wing Freedom Party after Austria’s legislative elections in 2017. He previously served as Austria’s Foreign Minister.
France (accept French Republic or République française)
Republic of Poland (or Rzeczpospolita Polska)
Sebastian Kurz &lt;Park&gt;
This event was prompted by Günter Schabowski’s statement that a particular policy would be “effective immediately, without delay.” For 10 points each:
Name this event, which was followed shortly afterwards by a performance of Beethoven’s 9th symphony conducted by Leonard Bernstein where the “Ode to Joy” was replaced by an “Ode to Freedom.”
Although Berlin was the de jure capital of West Germany, its de facto capital was at this city in North Rhine-Westphalia. Beethoven was born in this city.
The fall of the Berlin Wall was a major symbolic defeat for the USSR, which was led at the time by this reformist-minded implementer of perestroika and glasnost.
fall of the Berlin Wall (accept any answer mentioning the Berlin Wall or the border between East and West Berlin and it opening or ceasing to exist; prompt on partial answers mentioning just the Berlin Wall)
Bonn
Mikhail (Sergeyevich) Gorbachev &lt;Chu&gt;
For 10 points each, go into war with the British army:
Early British soldiers were renowned for wearing this boldly colorful uniform, to the extent that British soldiers were often referred to by it. Americans in particular were fond of calling them “lobsters.”
These Nepalese soldiers joined the British army in the mid-19th century. They use a curved knife called the khukuri, and in 2009 retired members of this fighting group won the right to reside in the UK.
This military rifle was hugely popular during the early 20th century and was the standard issue weapon during the World Wars. It was invented by James Paris Lee at a factory near the village of its name.
redcoat
Gurkhas
Lee-Enfield rifle &lt;Kuang&gt;
Caracalla is presented by many sources as a tyrant, but he wasn’t all bad. For 10 points each:
One of Caracalla’s great public projects was the construction of his namesake one of the these things, the second-largest in Rome. These places were fed water by aqueducts which was then heated by log fires.
In 212, Caracalla decreed the Antonine Constitution, which granted this right to all freemen in the Roman Empire. Previously, only residents of Italy were granted this right.
For the first years of his reign, Caracalla ruled with this emperor. This emperor, also Caracalla’s father, came to power after the Year of the Five Emperors and founded a dynasty bearing his name.
baths
full Roman citizenship
Septimius Severus &lt;Jin&gt;
The Hibiya Riots occurred in protest of the terms of the treaty that ended this war. For 10 points each,
Name this war between two imperial powers fought in the early 1890s over control of territories like Manchuria. It was ended by the Portsmouth Treaty and began with an attack on Port Arthur.
This overwhelming naval victory for Japan during the Russo-Japanese was the only major sea battle fought by modern steel battle fleets. It caused the British Empire to begin building the HMS Dreadnaught later that year.
The Battle of Tsushima was also notable for being the first critical naval battle to utilize this technology developed by Guglielmo Marconi. It was first called “wireless telegraphy.”
Russo-Japanese War
Battle of Tsushima
radio &lt;Owen&gt;
Before invading England, Harald Hardrada of Norway served as a mercenary in this military order. For 10 points each:
Name this elite army unit that served as the personal bodyguards to the emperors of the Byzantine Empire.
The Varangian Guard first formed when Vladimir the Great, the ruler of this city, sent 6,000 men to protect Basil II. It was the site of the state of Rus [“roos”].
According to legend, Vladimir the Great converted to Christianity instead of Islam because of Islam’s ban on this type of meat. Observant Jews also do not eat this type of meat.
Varangian Guard
Kiev
pork &lt;Suh&gt;
After Roger Mortimer killed this man at the Battle of Evesham, this man allegedly cried out, “Thank God.” For 10 points each:
Name this English noble who initiated the Second Baron’s War. He was the fifth of his name, and the sixth of his title.
While still a prince, this king of England tricked de Montfort into the Battle of Evesham by flying the banners of de Montfort’s son. This man’s nickname derives from the fact that he was a tall man for his time.
Edward Longshanks was also called the “Hammer” of these people for leading an invasion of them. Their leader William Wallace defeated Edward at the Battle of Stirling Bridge, the inspiration for Braveheart.
Simon (V) de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester (prompt on just Earl of Leicester)
Edward I of England (accept Edward Longshanks; prompt on just Edward)
Scots (or Scotland) &lt;Suh/Kuang&gt;
According to Marco Polo, initiates to this secret order would be drugged and taken to a “secret garden of paradise.” For 10 points each:
Give this more common name of the Nizari Ismailis, which has come to refer to a specific type of trained killer. They once left a dagger at the bedside of Seljuk Sultan Sanjar which stopped him from attacking this sect.
The Assassins were led by this shadowy figure who once snuck into Saladin’s tent to threaten him to leave the order alone or be killed. His real name was Rashid ad-Din Sinan.
The Assassins were eventually eradicated by these people under the leadership of Hulagu Khan. Genghis Khan led these people in a historic sack of Baghdad.
Assassins (accept word forms)
the Old Man of the Mountain
the Mongols (accept Mongol Empire) &lt;Owen/Kuang&gt;
This practice was the focus of the Supreme Court cases <em>Davis v. Bandemer</em> and <em>Shaw v. Reno</em>. For 10 points each:
Gill v. Whitford concerns the legality of this political practice, which come in partisan and racial forms. This practice occurs when electoral districts are manipulated to disproportionately favor one political party.
The aforementioned case challenges the 2011 redistricting plan for this state’s lower house. Scott Walker’s Passage of Act 10 in this state triggered a series of recall elections.
Nicholas Stephanopoulos and Eric McGhee devised this measurement to quantify the impact of partisan gerrymandering. The number of “wasted votes” is the basis of this mathematical standard.
gerrymandering (accept word forms; do not prompt or accept “redistricting” or “reapportionment”)
Wisconsin
efficiency gap &lt;Park&gt;
During this campaign, an inconsequential skirmish at the Luding Bridge somehow became a major propaganda victory for one side. For 10 points each:
Name this arduous retreat undertaken from 1934 to 1935 by the Chinese Communist Party after the Jiangxi Soviet was surrounded by Nationalist forces.
This man’s leadership during the Long March gained him immense support among Chinese Communists. He would oversee the Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution as leader of the PRC from 1949 to 1976.
This American journalist tagged along with the Communists on the Long March, using interviews with Mao and other Communist leaders as the basis for his book Red Star Over China.
Long March (or Changzheng)
Mao Zedong (or Mao Tse-tung; or Chairman Mao; or Mao Zhuxi)
Edgar (Parks) Snow &lt;Chu&gt;
Dwight Eisenhower predicted that this conflict would “absorb our troops by divisions.” For 10 points each:
Name this conflict that ended with the Fall of Saigon, the removal of US troops, and the communist reunification of a certain Asian nation.
This surprise military offensive launched by the North Vietnamese military and the Viet Cong began on the Vietnamese New Year in 1968 and temporarily set the United States back.
This man commanded American forces in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968. Later, he unsuccessfully sued the television network CBS for libel.
Vietnam War (accept Second Indochina War; prompt on partial answer)
Tet Offensive
William Westmoreland &lt;Suh&gt;
This man gained the leadership of his party following the death of the quite generically named John Smith. For 10 points each:
Name this British PM, a Labour politician in power from 1997 to 2007. He controversially led Britain into the Iraq War following US troops.
Blair helped negotiate this 1998 “agreement” that helped bring end the violent Troubles in Northern Ireland.
Many have argued that this document containing minutes of a 2002 British government meeting was an apparent smoking gun showing Bush’s government knowingly misled the US about entry into the Iraq War.
Tony Blair
Good Friday Agreement (or Belfast Agreement)
Downing Street memo (or Downing street minutes) &lt;Kuang&gt;
The writing system of this state’s official language will change from the Cyrillic alphabet to the Latin alphabet due to Presidential Decree 569. For 10 points each:
Name this Central Asian country with capital at Astana that is also the world’s largest landlocked country. Minority languages spoken in this country include Uzbek, Tajik, and Kyrgyz.
This leader of Kazakhstan issued Presidential Decree 569. He previously served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic.
Nazarbayev is also the chairman of the Nur Otan party, which in 2015 signed a cooperation agreement with this largest political party in Russia, whose incoherent ideology can best be described as “pro-Putin”.
Republic of Kazakhstan (or Qazaqstan Respy'bli'kasy)
Nursultan Abishuly Nazarbayev
United Russia (or Yedinaya Rossiya) &lt;Park&gt;
The decline of this empire began with incursions by a group sometimes called the “White Huns.” For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Indian empire, part of its “Golden Age.” It was ruled by two rulers whose names began with “Chandra,” but it shouldn’t be confused with the earlier Mauryan dynasty.
Literature in this language flourished during the Gupta Empire. Many ancient Indian texts like the Upanishads and Rig Veda were written in this language.
Both the Gupta and Mauryan empires originate in this smaller kingdom in the modern state of Bihar. Alexander the Great’s army mutinied as they approached this kingdom, and Alexander was forced to turn back.
Gupta Empire
Sanskrit
Magadha &lt;Kuang&gt;
The first line of the Marines’ Hymn references the Mexican-American War and this other conflict. For 10 points each:
Name these conflicts in which the U.S. Navy sought to prevent North African pirates from disrupting shipping in the Mediterranean.
The First Barbary War was fought while this man was U.S. president. He signed the Embargo Act to protest British impressment of American sailors, which would lead his successor James Madison into the War of 1812.
During the war, Stephen Decatur became a hero after leading a raid to destroy the USS Philadelphia before it was captured by pirates, but Decatur’s career would come to an abrupt end in 1820 when he died in this manner.
Barbary Wars (accept First Barbary War; accept Second Barbary War)
Thomas Jefferson
being killed in a duel (prompt on manslaughter; prompt on murder; prompt on getting shot) &lt;Chu&gt;
During the Norway Debates, this man claimed that he had “friends in the House,” but was removed from power. For 10 points each:
Name this British Prime Minister who ironically proclaimed his achievement of “peace for our time” after he signed the Munich Agreement.
This Canadian-born British Prime Minister worked alongside Neville’s brother Austen, before dying from throat cancer in 1923. He remains the only Prime Minister born outside of the British Isles.
After succeeding Chamberlain as Prime Minister, this man more successfully steered Britain through most of World War II.
Neville Chamberlain
Andrew Bonar Law
Winston Churchill &lt;Suh&gt;
Animals have it rough, but some have been lucky enough to have some rich and famous benefactors. For 10 points each:
The British royal family and Queen Elizabeth in particular have been noted for preferring this breed of dogs as pets, in particular the Pembroke Welsh.
This Roman emperor reportedly made his horse Incitatus a consul, though it’s been suggested it was more a dig at the Senate’s effectiveness. Nevertheless, this emperor also did real crazy stuff like collect seashells as spoils of war.
Despite being owned by this queen, the dog Pourquoi met a suspicious end falling out of a window. This woman was beheaded so her husband could marry Jane Seymour.
corgis
Caligula
Anne Boleyn &lt;Kuang&gt;
Upon losing his patience, this man once declared “For the love of God, go!” For 10 points each:
Name this man who de facto ruled England during the Interregnum. He led the New Model Army during the English Civil War.
Cromwell had lost his patience due to the inaction of the “Rump” iteration of this English governing body. This body consists of the House of Lords and the House of Commons.
This name was given to supporters of the New Model Army who opposed Charles I and the cavaliers during the English Civil War. The name derived from the Puritan practice of short hair.
Oliver Cromwell
Parliament of the United Kingdom
roundheads &lt;Horton&gt;
Barton W. Mitchell is most famous for discovering these things, along with a document which prompted George McClellan to say, “if I cannot beat Bobby Lee, I will be willing to go home.” For 10 points each:
Name these objects. Three of them were found wrapped in Special Order 191, which outlined essentially the entire plan for the Confederate invasion of Maryland.
The information from Special Order 191 helped McClellan at this Maryland battle, the single bloodiest day of fighting in American history.
An especially pivotal location at Antietam was the bridge named for this Union commander of IX [“nine”] Corps. His contribution to the world of facial hair overshadows the disastrous defeat he suffered at the Battle of the Crater.
cigars (do not accept or prompt on “cigarette”)
Battle of Antietam (or the Battle of Sharpsburg)
Ambrose E(verett) Burnside &lt;Chu&gt;
Giuseppe Garibaldi and his Expedition of the Thousand were instrumental in this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process by which a nation with the regions of Tuscany, Lombardy, and Campania was created.
This Austrian general helped to slow down Italian Unification by defeating the forces of Charles Albert of Sardinia at the Battles of Custoza and Novara in 1848 and 1849 respectively. He is the namesake of a famous march by Johann Strauss Sr.
This man was a longtime Prime Minister of Sardinia and was the first Prime Minister of Italy. He also founded the newspaper Il Risorgimento.
Italian unification [accept Risorgimento; accept descriptive answer]
Joseph Radetzky von Radetz
Camillo Paolo Filippo Giulio Benso, Count of Cavour, Isolabella and Leri [accept either underlined portion] &lt;LT&gt;
This king’s name literally means “without pain,” which is ironic given the cruelty for which he was known early in his life. For 10 points each:
Name this third Maurya emperor and son of Bindusara. He is famous for his Rock Edicts and namesake pillars.
Ashoka converted to this religion later in life. It was founded by Siddhartha Gautama.
This bloody war awoke Ashoka to the horrors of violence and spurred his conversion to Buddhism. It is named for an ancient kingdom on the Bay of Bengal.
Ashoka [accept Asoka]
Buddhism [anti-prompt on more specific answers]
Kalinga War &lt;LT&gt;
Michele di Lando led an uprising of wool workers in this city in the 14th century known as the Ciompi (“CHOME-pee”). For 10 points each:
Name this city on the Arno River that is home to the Uffizi Gallery.
This other Tuscan city is traditionally a major rival of Florence. A famous medieval saint named Catherine came from this city, and it has hosted the palio horse race in its piazza for several centuries.
Both Florence and Siena were rocked by this cataclysmic plague in the 14th century. It is believed to have been transmitted by fleas carried by rats.
Florence [accept Firenze]
Siena
Black Death [prompt on bubonic plague and similar answers] &lt;LT&gt;
These facilities formed an integral part of Operation Reinhard. For 10 points each:
Name this general type of facility in which the Nazi government placed elements of society they deemed undesirable, such as Gypsies, Jews, homosexuals, and political dissidents.
This concentration camp complex in modern-day Poland had major offshoots at Birkenau and Monowitz. It is generally considered to be the deadliest of the concentration camps.
This SS officer and longest-serving commandant of Auschwitz pioneered the use of Zyklon B as a method of execution after overseeing experiments on Russian prisoners of war.
concentration camps [accept more specific answers such as labor camps or extermination camps]
Auschwitz
Rudolf Höss &lt;LT&gt;
This was the last major battle in the North during the Revolutionary War. For 10 points each:
Name this June 1778 battle at which Charles Lee was relieved of command after his troops were forced to retreat. George Washington managed to prevent defeat, but the British were able to escape and continue to their ships.
At Monmouth, this woman is said to have brought water out to the American soldiers, hence her nickname. She took her husband’s place at his cannon after he collapsed.
The Battle of Monmouth took place in this state. This state was the site of the 1776 Battle of Trenton.
Battle of Monmouth Courthouse
Molly Pitcher [accept Mary Ludwig Hays; prompt on partial]
New Jersey &lt;DM&gt;
The 1884 Treaty of Hue (“hoo-AY”) formally ceded control of this country to France. For 10 points each:
Name this Southeast Asian country with a capital at Hanoi. It was the location of a very long US military campaign in the 1960s and 1970s.
At this 1954 battle, Viet Minh forces under General Giap encircled and captured an entrenched French force. It led to the Geneva Accords and French withdrawal from Vietnam.
This man was the last Emperor of Vietnam and the first head of state of South Vietnam. He was ultimately defeated in a 1955 referendum by Ngo Dinh Diem despite French support.
Vietnam
Battle of Dien Bien Phu
Bao Dai &lt;LT&gt;
During the Civil War, John Ross led the faction of this nation fighting for the Union. For 10 points each:
Name this Amerindian nation. This tribe was one the Five Civilized Tribes, and they formed the plaintiffs in Worcester v. Georgia.
Some of the Cherokee signed this treaty in 1835, although none of their chiefs agreed. This treaty, named after the last Cherokee capital, ceded their land to the US.
The Cherokee, with the other nations of the Five Civilized Tribes, were forcibly deported to Indian Territory along this trail following the Indian Removal Act.
Cherokee Nation
Treaty of New Echota
Trail of Tears &lt;DM&gt;
The losing army at this battle was destroyed completely several weeks later at the Masurian Lakes For 10 points each:
Name this 1914 battle in which German forces began the process of removing a Russian invasion force from East Prussia by encircling and defeating the Second Army under Alexander Samsonov, who shot himself.
This German general, along with Erich Ludendorff, was the commanding officer at the Battle of Tannenberg. He is perhaps best known for his stint as President of Weimar Germany.
This technology was used by the Russians to orally transmit orders prior to the Battle of Tannenberg, although their failure to encrypt these messages allowed the German military to predict their movements. This technology is how people listen to music in cars.
Battle of Tannenberg
Paul von Hindenburg [accept Paul Ludwig Hans Anton von Beneckendorff und von Hindenburg]
radio &lt;LT&gt;
The first recorded king of this nation was Gorm the Old, and its flag is said to have fallen from the heavens at a 1219 battle, making it the oldest continually used national standard. For 10 points each:
Name this Scandinavian nation located primarily on the Jutland peninsula. Its capital is Copenhagen.
This union of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden lasted from 1397 to 1523, and notably vied with the Hanseatic League for regional supremacy.
This Danish queen founded the Kalmar Union by acquiring control of Norway and Sweden. Albert of Mecklenburg was a notable rival of hers, and the current queen of Denmark has stated that her decision to be known as “the second” is meant to recognize this ruler.
Kingdom of Denmark [accept Kongeriget Danmark]
Kalmar Union
Queen Margaret I [accept Margrethe I; prompt on Margaret] &lt;LT&gt;
This war was sparked by the death of the last Hapsburg in the country in question. For 10 points each:
Name this 1702 to 1715 conflict over who would rule an Iberian nation. It included battles like Blenheim in Europe and extensive military actions in the belligerent nations’ colonial possessions.
This British queen for much of the war is the namesake of both the North American portion of the war and a style of furniture. This female monarch oversaw the 1707 Act of Union and was the last Stuart ruler of the British isles.
Name either of the two treaties that ended the War of the Spanish Succession. In these treaties, Great Britain received Minorca but the Asiento monopoly, while the Austrians received many of Spain’s continental possessions outside of Iberia.
War of the Spanish Succession
Queen Anne
Treaty of Utrecht or Treaty of Rastatt [accept either underlined portion] &lt;LT&gt;
This country was once home to the Wafd Party. For 10 points each:
Name this North African nation that was the site of the Urabi Revolt. It is home to many pyramids.
This man led Egypt from 1956 until his 1970 death. He is famous for leading Egypt during the Six Day War and for nationalizing the Suez Canal.
One of Nasser’s pet schemes was this short-lived political union between Egypt and Syria. It ended when a 1961 military coup overthrew this government in Syria and restored the Syrian Republic.
Arab Republic of Egypt
Gamel Abdel Nasser Hussein
United Arab Republic [accept United Arab Commonwealth] &lt;LT&gt;
This country has recently faced an economic crisis as a result of a significant reduction in coal exports to China. For 10 points each:
Name this East Asian Communist state with a capital at Pyongyang. It is currently led by Kim Jong Un.
The United Nations Security Council has condemned these specific actions undertaken by North Korea under Kim Jong Un. Most recently, North Korea claimed that one of these actions was in response to a yearly joint military exercise called “Foal Eagle.”
Missile tests are not the only thing that North Korea does that enrages the free world. This American college student has been imprisoned for over a year in North Korea for stealing a sign.
North Korea [accept Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; prompt on Korea]
missile test [accept nuclear test or ballistic missile test or any kind of descriptive answer]
Otto Frederick Warmbier &lt;LT&gt;
Some presidencies have more scandals than others. For 10 points each:
Name this scandal-ridden US President who was in office from 1993-2001. Formerly, he had served as the Governor of Arkansas, and his wife, Hillary, lost the 2016 US Presidential Election.
Bill Clinton lied about having sexual relations with this White House intern under oath, leading Congress to impeach Clinton. A blue dress belong to this woman was a notable piece of evidence during Clinton’s trial in the Senate.
This other Clinton-related scandal involved a failed land development deal in Arkansas in the 1970s and 1980s. Bill Clinton pardoned one of the primary actors in this scandal, Susan McDougal, right before he left office.
William Jefferson “Bill” Clinton [accept William Jefferson Blythe III]
Monica (Samille) Lewinsky
Whitewater Scandal &lt;LT&gt;
This economic system was possible partially due to the trade winds. For 10 points each:
Name this economic system in which Africa, the Americas, and Europe exchanged goods via trade on the Atlantic Ocean. Its name is derived from the shape that the routes form on a map.
This human good formed Africa’s primary export to the Americas. The trade in this type of good was banned by the British in 1807, and the Royal Navy is generally credited with the successful eradication of the Atlantic trade in this good.
This term is applied to the section of the triangle trade that consisted of slaves being shipped from Africa to the Americas. This journey was notoriously dangerous, with mortality rates generally estimated at 15%.
triangle trade [accept triangular trade]
slaves [accept word forms such as slavery]
Middle Passage &lt;LT&gt;
This conflict was mediated through the Dayton Accords. For 10 points each:
Name this 1992 to 1995 ethnic conflict in the Balkans that included the first example of genocide in Europe since the end of the Second World War. This war is named after the primarily-Muslim group that was targeted, and it included the Srebrenica Massacre.
This group’s leaders perpetrated the Bosnian genocide. The country that takes its name from this ethnic group has its capital at Belgrade.
This Serbian President during the Bosnian War resigned during the 2000 Bulldozer Revolution after attempting to resist giving power to to Vojislav Kostunica.
Bosnian War [accept obvious equivalents]
Serbians
Slobodan Milošević (“mi-LO-se-vich”) &lt;LT&gt;
This leader’s “Secret Speech” was a denunciation of the cult of personality that he believed that his predecessor had set up. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet leader who was in power from 1953 to 1964. He attracted international attention for banging his shoe on a table at the UN during the Cuban Missile Crisis.
This predecessor of Khrushchev and target of the “Secret Speech” led the Soviet Union during the Second World War.
This short-lived later Soviet ruler led the KGB for fifteen years, and was succeeded by Konstantin Chernenko as General Secretary after his 1984 death.
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev
Josef Vissarionovich Stalin [accept Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili; accept Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
Yuri Vladimirovich Andropov &lt;LT&gt;
This nation was ruled by two emperors, Agustín I and Maximilian I. For 10 points each:
Name this North American country that contains the states of Sonora and Baja California. It is directly to the south of the United States.
This Catholic priest and early Mexican revolutionary issued the Grito de Dolores, but was executed in the aftermath of his defeat at the Battle of Calderon Bridge.
This liberal Zapotec-descended five-term Mexican president led resistance to the French-backed government of Emperor Maximilian I in the 1860s. He has often been called Mexico’s Abraham Lincoln.
Mexico [accept Republic of Mexico; accept Mexican Empire]
Don Miguel Gregorio Antonio Ignacio Hidalgo-Costilla y Gallaga Mandarte Villaseñor
Benito Pablo Juárez García &lt;LT&gt;
In the wake of the Russian Civil War, this city became home to its namesake Russians. For 10 points each:
Name this largest Chinese city that sits on the mouth of the Yangtze River. It is the busiest container port in the world, and it is home to a namesake stock exchange.
This place in Shanghai was built mainly by Europeans, and it long contained the headquarters of China’s major financial institutions. Today, it is primarily a waterfront tourist destination.
This term is applied to the agreements that were imposed upon China as part of its “century of humiliation.” These agreements were seen as unfair, and often led to minor European colonial acquisitions in the form of concessions.
Shanghai
The Bund [accept Waitan]
unequal treaties [prompt on treaty ports or enclaves or colonies] &lt;LT&gt;
This traditionally formed the eastern border of the Roman Province of Gaul. For 10 points each:
Name this German river that empties into the North Sea. It is the second longest river that flows through Germany after the Danube.
This 1870-71 war was partially caused by tensions surrounding the use of the Rhine River as a boundary between the two powers. It was ended by the Treaty of Frankfurt.
This non-Metz city is the second-largest port on the Rhine, and was the site of a lengthy siege during the Franco-Prussian war in which large-scale bombardments destroyed much of it. Julian the Apostate won a major victory in this modern city in 357 A.D. over the Alamanni.
Rhine River
Franco-Prussian War
Strasbourg &lt;LT&gt;
The Pacific Front started and ended World War II for America. For 10 points each:
Name this surprise Japanese attack on a series of military bases in Hawaii on December 7, 1941. It was called “A Day which Shall Live in Infamy,”and brought the US into the war.
This five-star Fleet Admiral was promoted to Commander in Chief of the United States Pacific Fleet ten days after Pearl Harbor. He now has a class of nuclear aircraft carriers named after him.
Name this first major American ground offensive of the Pacific Front. Many battles were fought over control of the Henderson Field airstrip during a six month campaign that ended with a February 1943 Japanese withdrawal.
attack on Pearl Harbor
Chester William Nimitz
Guadalcanal Campaign [or Battle of Guadalcanal; accept Operation Watchtower; prompt on Solomon Islands Campaign or obvious equivalent] &lt;BL&gt;
This man suffered some public humiliation when his attempts to help stop the First World War through the “Peace Ship” <em>Oscar II</em> failed spectacularly. For 10 points each:
Name this Michigan industrialist and publisher of the book The International Jew. He founded an automotive manufacturing company that is considered one of the “big three” along with GM and Chrysler.
This signature early product of the Ford Motor Company was first produced in 1908, and was named the Car of the Century in 1999. Over 15 million of these cars were sold.
This markedly less successful car model was named after Ford’s only son. Its name has come to be synonymous with unsuccessful products.
Henry Ford
Ford Model T [accept Tin Lizzie, T-Model, Leaping Lena, or flivver; prompt on partial answers]
Edsel &lt;LT&gt;
This island was home to the French colony of Saint-Domingue, once the richest colony in the Western Hemisphere. For 10 points each:
Name this island that contains the modern-day nations of Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
This nickname applies to many early non-Spanish colonists on Hispaniola. It arose from their practice of hunting wild pigs, but eventually grew to describe those who made their living robbing on the high seas.
This Haitian island city was a famous buccaneer base. Many of the buccaneers based here called themselves “The Brethren of the Coast.”
Hispaniola
buccaneers
Tortuga &lt;LT&gt;
This structure is located on the Île de la Cité (“see-TAY”). For 10 points each:
Name this Gothic Parisian cathedral that was built from 1163 to 1345. This church is famous for its iconic rose windows and for the fact that was among the first buildings to be built using flying buttresses.
This king who ordered Notre Dame’s construction was also Eleanor of Aquitaine’s first husband, and he oversaw the founding of the University of Paris. He was succeeded by his son Philip II.
Louis VII belonged to this dynasty. It began when its founder, Hugh, was elected following the death of the last Carolingian king, Louis V.
Notre Dame de Paris
Louis VII [accept Louis the Young; prompt on Louis]
Capetian Dynasty &lt;LT&gt;
This country suffered the Flagstaff Rebellion of Hone Heke (“HO-nay HEH-kay”) in the 1840s. For 10 points each:
Name this Oceanic nation that has been the site of many conflicts between European and the native Maori.
This 1840 treaty between English settlers and the Maori established British rule over New Zealand. William Hobson became the First Governor of New Zealand following this treaty.
New Zealand Prime Minister Bill English belongs to this current ruling political party. It was founded in 1936, and was notably the party of controversial former Prime Minister Robert Muldoon.
New Zealand
Treaty of Waitangi
New Zealand National Party &lt;LT&gt;
This settlement experienced the Starving Time during the winter of 1609-1610 due to delayed food shipments and incessant Indian attacks. For 10 points each:
Name this first permanent British settlement in North America. It takes its name from Elizabeth I’s successor.
This 1676 rebellion was launched by English settlers in Virginia. It successfully captured and burned Jamestown before its namesake leader died of dysentery.
Bacon’s Rebellion sought to oust this 76 year-old governor, who was replaced after he harshly crushed the rebellion and punished its perpetrators.
Jamestown [prompt on Virginia]
Bacon’s Rebellion
Sir William Berkeley &lt;LT&gt;
Current holders of this position include Elena Kagan, a graduate of Hunter College High School. For 10 points each:
Name this position for which Neil Gorsuch was nominated on February 1. Other current holders of this position are Sonia Sotomayor, Samuel Alito, and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
After the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia, then-President Obama nominated this man for Supreme Court Justice. Mitch McConnell and other Senate Republicans refused to consider the nomination of this Court of Appeals judge.
Neil Gorsuch is known for his broad interpretations of religious freedom, as evidenced by a concurrence he wrote in response to a 2013 ruling that this craft store did not have to partly cover the cost of its employees’ contraception.
Supreme Court Justice [or Associate Justice of the Supreme Court; take judge for Justice; prompt on anything relating to courts or the judiciary or judicial system or being a judge; do not accept or prompt on “Chief Justice”]
Merrick (Brian) Garland
Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. &lt;CL&gt;
This country attracted controversy for selling weapons to Israel between 1947 and 1949. For 10 points each:
Name this central European country that contained regions such as Bohemia and Moravia. It split into two parts in the Velvet Divorce of 1993 under President Vaclav Havel, the first post-Communist leader of this state.
This brief 1968 period of liberalization in Czechoslovakia was presided over by Alexander Dubček (“dub-check”). It featured Ludvik Vaculík’s publication of The Two Thousand Words and promised “socialism with a human face.”
This notable non-Communist Czechoslovak politician died in what has been called the Third Defenestration of Prague in the aftermath of a 1948 Communist coup. Many have speculated that he was murdered.
Czechoslovakia [do not accept “Slovakia” or “Czech Republic” or “Czechia”]
Prague Spring
Jan Garrigue Masaryk &lt;LT&gt;
One county in this state was home to the infamous “butterfly ballot,” which may have caused thousands of voters to unwittingly cast votes for Pat Buchanan instead of Al Gore. For 10 points each:
Name this U.S. state, site of a controversial recount during the 2000 presidential election. Its capital is Tallahassee.
Gore officially lost Florida by 537 votes in the 2000 election, while this Green Party candidate captured almost 100,000 votes in the state, almost certainly costing Gore the state and the presidency. This noted consumer safety advocate authored Unsafe at Any Speed.
Another source of confusion during the Florida recount were these small pieces of paper, only partially detached from paper ballots. These things could be counted by standards including the strict standard, 2-corner standard, and Palm Beach standard.
Florida
Ralph Nader
hanging chads [accept swinging chads, tri-chads, pregnant chads, or dimpled chads; prompt on chads] &lt;SB&gt;
This colony was the site of a long-running dispute with trader William Claibourne over Kent Island. For 10 points each:
Name this colony founded to be a religious safehaven for Catholics. Its modern-day capital is Annapolis.
This Catholic family led the effort to initially colonize Maryland, after which they were granted the title “Baron Baltimore.” Cecil is perhaps this family’s most famous member.
British nobles who personally controlled the government of New World colonies are known by this general term. Although William Penn and George Calvert are the most famous examples of these men, the Colony of Carolina was also a colony named after men of this type.
Maryland
Calvert family
proprietor [accept proprietary colony] &lt;LT&gt;
. This “Little Corporal” is said to have ended the French Revolution on the “18 Brumaire.” For 10 points each:
Name this First Consul and eventual Emperor of the French, who nearly conquered all of Europe. He lost the Battle of Waterloo in 1815.
Napoleon won what was by his own admission his greatest victory in this December 1805 battle, giving up the high ground of the Pratzen Heights to lure a combined Austrian and Russian army into weakening their flanks. The Austrian Emperor Francis was captured at this “Battle of the Three Emperors.”
The decisive nature of the Battle of Austerlitz ended the War of the Third Coalition with this treaty signed in a city now known as Bratislava. That 1805 treaty named for this city paved the way for the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire
His Imperial and Royal Majesty Napoleon I, By the Grace of God and the Constitutions of the Empire, Emperor of the French, King of Italy, Mediator of the Swiss Confederation, Protector of the Confederation of the Rhine, Co-Prince of Andorra, Sovereign of the Isle of Elba, Grand Master of the Legion of Honor, and Grand Master of the Order of the Iron Crown
Battle of Austerlitz
Peace of Pressburg [Accept Treaty of Pressburg] &lt;BL&gt;
This man’s quasi-mythological tale is told in the <em>White Book of Sarnen</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this early Swiss patriot who killed the tyrannical Austrian-appointed official Gessler after Gessler forced this man to shoot an apple off of his son’s head.
Gessler held the office of vogt, which is often equated to this general Medieval feudal office. A man in this office was generally responsible for estate management and administrative tasks, but this position might be better known for titling the third of The Canterbury Tales.
This later Swiss patriot Grossmunster of Zurich led Protestant forces during the Second Kappel War and was killed. He met with Martin Luther at Marburg Colloquy, and is regarded as a Swiss patriotic hero.
William Tell [accept Guglielmo Tell; accept Guillaume Tell]
reeve
Huldrych Zwingli [accept Ulrich Zwingli] &lt;LT&gt;
For 10 points each, name some “yuge”-ly important members of President Trump’s cabinet.
The Trump administration head of this department is former presidential candidate Ben Carson. This department’s mission is to build communities and provide shelter and/or homes for all Americans.
Mike Pence broke a tie to confirm this current Secretary of Education. This controversial school choice advocate was blocked from entering a school during her first week on the job.
This hedge fund manager and former Goldman Sachs employee was Trump’s pick for Secretary of the Treasury. He is the former owner of OneWest Bank.
Department of Housing and Urban Development [accept HUD]
Elisabeth Dee “Betsy” DeVos [accept Betsy Prince]
Steven Turner “Steve” Mnuchin (“mah-NOO-chin”) &lt;CL&gt;
Early in his career, this man won a tough election to the House of Representatives with the support of Patrick Henry. For 10 points each:
Name this Virginian and fourth Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. He remains the longest serving Chief Justice, holding that office for 34 years.
Marshall presided over this notable 1824 case in which the Commerce Clause was expanded to include laws relating to navigation. This case arose because of a dispute involving steamship licensing.
This legal arrangement, in which only one seller is allowed by the state to operate in a particular market, was the ultimate cause of the dispute in Gibbons v. Ogden. Antitrust laws are meant to combat naturally occurring forms of this phenomenon.
John Marshall
Gibbons v. Ogden [accept reverse order; both names necessary; prompt on partial answer]
monopoly &lt;LT&gt;
This country was the primary loser in the Treaty of Trianon, which helped lead to the rise of a fascist regime under Admiral Miklós (“MI-klosh”) Horthy. For 10 points each:
Name this Eastern European nation with a capital at Budapest. Its current Prime Minister is Viktor Orbán.
This year is commonly associated with revolutions in Europe. In Hungary, the Habsburgs temporarily lost control of Hungary during this year, and in France Louis-Philippe was overthrown in this year.
This Hungarian revolutionary served as the Governor-General of Hungary during its brief period of independence in the wake of the 1848 Revolutions. Following the rebellion’s defeat, he toured Britain and the United States, even attending a Joint Meeting of Congress.
Hungary
1848
Lajos Kossuth (“LA-yosh KO-shoot”) [accept Lajos Kossuth de Udvard et Kossuthfalva; accept Louis Kossuth; accept Kossuth Lajos] &lt;LT&gt;
Post-independence India has had a very colorful political history. For 10 points each:
Name this political dynasty of India. Its members with this surname have included two Prime Ministers and the man known as “the mahatma.”
After being convicted of electoral fraud, Indira Gandhi set in place this controversial 21-month period, during which her son instituted a mass sterilization program.
This son of Indira Gandhi instituted the mass sterilization program. He was a frontrunner to succeed his mother but died in a plane crash in 1980.
Gandhi [anti-prompt on Nehru-Gandhi]
The Emergency
Sanjay Gandhi &lt;PO&gt;
School integration was a very controversial process in the United States that many elected officials opposed. For 10 points each:
Name this long-time Alabama governor who orchestrated his “stand in the schoolhouse door” to protest wildly unpopular desegregation at his state’s flagship university. He ran for president in 1968 with Curtis LeMay.
This Virginia senator promised “massive resistance” in the face of Brown v. Board of Ed. His namesake organization dominated Virginia politics for much of the early to mid-20th century.
The Little Rock Nine necessitated that President Eisenhower deploy army forces to federalize this state’s national guard despite the objections of Governor Orval Faubus.
George Corley Wallace Jr.
Harry Flood Byrd Sr.
Arkansas &lt;LT&gt;
Twenty medals of honor were awarded at this event, and it is still designated as a battle by the United States Military. For 10 points each:
Name this 1890 military incident in which members of the 7th cavalry killed between 150 and 300 Lakota Indians. A 1970 book by Dee Brown states a desire to Bury My Heart at this event’s location.
This man was the United States Army Colonel and commander of the 7th cavalry at Wounded Knee. He served during both the Civil and Indian Wars, ultimately attaining the rank of Major General.
The Battle of Wounded Knee occurred in this US state. It has its capital at Pierre and is the home of Mount Rushmore.
Battle of Wounded Knee Massacre [accept Wounded Knee Massacre or really anything mentioning Wounded Knee]
James William Forsyth (“FOR-scythe”)
South Dakota &lt;LT&gt;
This ruler played the flute. For 10 points each:
Name this famed Prussian king, the “first servant of state,” who defeated an Austrian army twice the size of his own forces at the Battle of Leuthen.
As ruler of Brandenburg, Frederick held this position, which gave him the right to help choose the Holy Roman Emperor.
One notable enemy of Frederick the Great was this only female Austrian ruler, who fought both the War of the Austrian Succession to defend her right to the throne and the Seven Year’s War in an attempt to reconquer Silesia.
Frederick the Great [accept Frederick II; prompt on Frederick]
Elector of Brandenburg
Maria Theresa [prompt on Empress Maria] &lt;BL&gt;
This country’s colonies in the Pacific included the Caroline, Mariana, and Marshall islands. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose colony on New Guinea was named Kaiser Wilhelmsland after its king. It also named the Bismarck Archipelago off of New Guinea after its Iron Chancellor.
At the Tripartite Convention, the islands of Savaii and Upolu in this archipelago were given to Germany. In 1997, those two islands dropped the epithet “Western” from their country’s name, sparking outrage from the rest of the archipelago.
After World War I, Samoa, along with the rest of Germany’s Pacific colonies, was given Class C designation under this legal status. Other countries given this legal status after WWI included Palestine and Syria.
Germany
Samoan Islands [do not accept “American Samoa”]
League of Nations mandate [accept clear equivalents containing the two underlined parts; prompt on partial answer] &lt;DM&gt;
The modern form of this unit succeeded the maniple system and generally consisted of either nine or ten cohorts. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman military unit that generally consisted of about 5,200 men at full strength. Each one had a personalized standard borne by an aquilifer.
This Roman general and statesman massively reformed the Roman army by allowing men who did not hold property to serve in the military and by providing soldiers with state-issued equipment. He was a notable rival of Sulla.
Marius defeated the Cimbri tribes at this 101 B.C. battle. Following this battle, all soldiers from allied Italian cities were granted Roman citizenship.
legion [accept legio]
Gaius Marius
Battle of Vercellae &lt;LT&gt;
This man was given the nickname “The Peacemaker” owing to the lack of major conflicts during his reign. For 10 points each:
Name this conservative late-19th century Russian tsar whose reign saw the signing of the Reinsurance Treaty and the Congress of Berlin.
Alexander III often commissioned pieces for Dagmar from this family of jewelers. Their namesake eggs are still highly coveted pieces of art.
This last tsar of Russia was the son of Alexander III. He and his family were brutally murdered by the Bolsheviks in 1918, although some believe that his daughter Anastasia survived.
Alexander III [prompt on Alexander]
House of Fabergé (“fah-bear-JAY”)
Nicholas II &lt;LT&gt;
For 10 points each, name some famous popes:
This female pope was probably fictional, but according to legend, her sex was revealed when she gave birth during a procession.
This pope, one of only two to have the title “The Great,” famously stopped the Huns from invading and sacking Rome in 452
Name this pope who presided during World War II, and who, despite some criticism and the designation “Hitler's pope” by some, was actually a noted opponent of fascism and genocide.
Pope Joan
Leo the Great
Pius XII &lt;PB&gt;
Franklin Delano Roosevelt was America’s longest-serving president. For 10 points each, name some people who served in his administration.
Name this last Vice President of FDR, a former senator from Missouri who served on his namesake committee to eliminate wasted money in the war. This man succeeded FDR as President.
This Texan was Speaker of the House before being chosen as FDR’s first Vice President. He disagreed with FDR’s wild spending, support for labor unions and court packing scheme.
FDR’s second VP was Henry A. Wallace of Iowa. Before being chosen as VP in 1940, he occupied this position, for which Sonny Perdue has been nominated by President Trump.
Harry S. Truman
John Nance Garner IV
Secretary of Agriculture &lt;PO&gt;
This empire used “K.U.K.” as its official abbreviation on ships and various articles of state in order to reflect political realities of split power. For 10 points each:
Name this European empire that was formed by a namesake 1867 compromise. It was one of the members of the pre-World War I Triple Alliance along with Italy and the German Empire.
This first Hapsburg Emperor of Austria-Hungary reigned until his 1916 death in the midst of World War I. His son Crown Prince Rudolf committed suicide in the Mayerling Incident, causing this ruler to designate Archduke Franz Ferdinand as his successor.
This ideology sought to create a Croatian state along with the Austrian and Hungarian components within the empire. Franz Ferdinand was a notable advocate for this ideology, and it takes its name from the idea of forming a third state.
Austro-Hungarian Empire [or Austria-Hungary]
Franz Joseph I [accept Francis Joseph I; prompt on Franz Joseph]
trialism [prompt on federalism; prompt on Austro-Slavism] &lt;LT&gt;
This people was divided into two primary groups: the Ripuarians and the Salians. For 10 points each:
Name this Germanic people that gives their name to the modern-day nation that contains the city of Marseilles.
This Merovingian leader was famously baptized as a Catholic in 508 by Saint Remigius at the urging of his wife, Clotilde. He is probably more famous for being the first unified king of the Frankish people, a title which this man secured by conquering Cologne in 508.
This enemy of Clovis was captured and murdered by Alaric II of the Visigoths after he lost the 486 Battle of Soissons to the Franks. He was the son of Aegidius and the last Roman ruler in Gaul.
Franks
Clovis I [accept Chlodovechus]
Syagrius &lt;LT&gt;
Right-wing populism is becoming increasingly prevalent and successful in Europe. Answer some questions about it for 10 points each:
Name this Eurosceptic British political party that shocked the world by prevailing in the 2014 European Parliamentary Elections. It was led by Nigel Farage until his 2016 resignation.
The party this man leads, PVV, had a disappointing showing in the 2017 Dutch General Election, finishing second behind Mark Rutte’s incumbent VVD. He is noted for his controversial statements and platinum blonde hair.
This German political party humiliated sitting Chancellor Angela Merkel by beating her in her home state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern in 2016 regional elections. It is led by Frauke Petry.
United Kingdom Independence Party
Geert Wilders (“GAY-ehrt VIL-dehrs”)
Alternative for Germany [accept Alternative for Deutschland]
Prior to this battle, a significant portion of one side’s army under Joseph Tarchaniotes (“tar-CAY-nee-ots”) mysteriously disappeared. For 10 points each:
Name this 1071 battle at which Byzantine forces under Romanos IV were defeated by Seljuks under Alp Arslan, paving the way for the Seljuk conquest of much of Anatolia. Romanos was captured at this battle.
This man’s rise to power was arguably helped by the political chaos that ensued following Romanos’ overthrow in the aftermath of Manzikert. This man brought the Komnenos Dynasty to power in 1081 and began their namesake restoration.
Alexios helped instigate this conflict by requesting help against the Seljuks. This conflict, the first of its type, was ultimately successful in its goal, capturing Jerusalem in 1099.
Battle of Manzikert
Alexios I
First Crusade [prompt on partial answer] &lt;LT&gt;
This man first came to national prominence when he delivered the “A Time for Choosing” speech while campaigning for fellow Republican Barry Goldwater in 1964. For 10 points each:
Name this Californian who served as President of the United States between 1981 and 1989. He defeated Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale.
During his reelection campaign in 1984, Reagan’s team aired this optimistic advertisement. It presented the ways that life had gotten better under Reagan’s presidency, comparing the present to the title time of day.
Before becoming the Governor of California, Reagan’s main political qualification was serving as the president of this Hollywood labor union, which merged with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists in 2012.
Ronald Wilson Reagan
“Morning in America” [accept “Prouder, Stronger, Better”]
Screen Actors Guild &lt;SB/LT&gt;
. Ban Zhao finished the <em>Book</em> of this dynasty, and Sima Qian wrote the <em>Records of the Grand Historia</em>n during this dynasty. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty that was founded by Liu Bang following the Battle of Gaixia in 202 B.C. Emperor Wudi was a member of this dynasty.
They’re not the Mongols, but Emperor Wudi is well-known for dispatching forces to fight this nomadic Central Asian people at the Battle of Mayi in 133 B.C.. The confederation that united these people was founded by Modu Chanyu in 209 B.C., and they would eventually be fully defeated by the Han in 90 A.D.
The Han dynasty ruled this modern-day nation with a capital at Beijing.
Han Dynasty
Xiongnu
People’s Republic of China &lt;LT&gt;
Franklin Delano Roosevelt referred to this man as “one of two people who invented the New Deal.” For 10 points each:
Name this fascist president who founded his non-Portugal nation’s “Estado Novo.” His country went through his namesake era from 1930 to 1945, and he ended his country’s Old Republic with a 1930 Revolution.
This specific philosophy espoused by Vargas seeks to organically unify the people in a state, and supports class hierarchies and trade unionism. Some critics have likened it to fascism.
Vargas ruled in this nation. Its largest city is São Paulo, and it is the largest country by area in South America.
Getulio Dornelles Vargas
integralism
Brazil &lt;LT&gt;
In this election year, disputed results in several states led to a significant delay in the announcement of a winner, ultimately necessitating a compromise that led to the end of Reconstruction. For 10 points each:
Name this election year in which Rutherford B. Hayes prevailed over Samuel Tilden as a result of a compromise named for the year following it.
In this state, former Confederate cavalry commander Wade Hampton III became governor following a contentious fraud-filled election season. This state was the site of the Civil War Battle of Fort Wagner.
This term describes paramilitary militias that were formed to support Hampton by campaigning for him and attempting to guard against fraud by the Republican-run state government. This term is derived from a distinctive article of clothing.
Election of 1876
South Carolina
Red Shirts &lt;LT&gt;
This statue stands tall in New York Harbor on what used to be known as Bedloe’s Island. For 10 points each:
Name this tall green statue of a robed goddess. A plaque in this statue quotes Emma Lazarus’s “The New Colossus,” most famously the lines, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”
The ferry from the Statue of Liberty lets off in a park named for this neighborhood on the southern tip of Manhattan. The song “New York, New York” from the musical On the Town states that “the Bronx is up but [this place] is down.”
The ferry’s ticket office in the Battery is at this location. It is named after the governor of New York who more famously was responsible for the construction of the Erie Canal.
Statue of Liberty [accept Liberty Enlightening the World]
The Battery [accept Battery Park City, even though it’s not really the same thing]
Castle Clinton [or Fort Clinton, also accept Castle Garden] &lt;DM&gt;
This entity was established in 1975 by the Treaty of Lagos. For 10 points each:
Identify this trade union which includes countries like Burkina Faso, Mali, and Nigeria. Meetings for this trade union are conducted in English, French, and Portuguese, and EBID is an institution within it.
Operation Restore Democracy was a military intervention by ECOWAS in this country in January. It occurred because this country’s President Yahya Jammeh refused to step down to make room for Adama Barrow. This country’s capital is Banjul and it lies on either side of its namesake river.
The Gambia was a former colony of this modern day nation with capital at London whose constituent countries include England.
Economic Community of West African States [or ECOWAS; accept Communauté économique des États de l'Afrique de l'Ouest; accept Comunidade Económica dos Estados da África Ocidental; accept CEDEAO]
(Republic of) the Gambia
Great Britain [accept the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland] &lt;CL&gt;
The 1881 Battle of Geok Tepe completed the Russian defeat of the people for which this nation is named. For 10 points each:
Name this Central Asian country with a capital at Ashgabat. It is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the world, and large parts of it are covered by the Black Sand Desert.
This longtime ruler of Turkmenistan successfully led the country through the Fall of the Soviet Union. He set up a cult of personality, declared himself president for life, and attempted to remove Russian cultural influences by introducing a Latin alphabet to replace the Cyrillic Alphabet that was in use at the time before dying in 2006.
Turkmenistan borders this largest enclosed body of water in the world about which there is currently a debate among scientists regarding whether or not this body is a sea. It is also bordered by Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Azerbaijan.
Turkmenistan
Saparmurat Atayevich Niyazov
Caspian Sea &lt;LT&gt;
This ruler married the widow of his brother Arthur after Arthur died of sweating sickness. For 10 points each:
Name this second Tudor King of England. He was married six times, and famously oversaw the creation of the Church of England.
Henry VIII seized and liquidated these institutions in order to pay for his many religious campaigns through two suppression acts. Thomas Cromwell was sent to visit these places in order to appraise the value of the property held by these religious institutions.
This 1536 Yorkshire rebellion objected to Henry VIII’s new church and the dissolution of the monasteries among other things. It was led by Robert Aske.
Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]
monasteries [accept priories; accept friaries; accept convents]
Pilgrimage of Grace &lt;LT&gt;
. The first message transmitted using this invention in the United States was “What hath God wrought” from the Book of Numbers. For 10 points each:
Name this invention that uses dots and dashes to transmit signals over long distances. It was originally invented by Cooke and Wheatstone in Great Britain in the 1830s.
This man was originally employed as a portrait painter. This Yale graduate is better known for developing the first single-wire telegraph system.
Morse ran for this office as the Nativist Party candidate in 1836. Thomas Willett was the first holder of this office.
Telegraph [accept Telegram]
Samuel Finley Breese Morse
Mayor of New York City &lt;LT&gt;
The perpetrators of this event accidently shot down their own MiG-19 when one of the fourteen S-75 Dvina surface-to-air missiles they fired went off target. For 10 points each:
Name this 1960 incident in which the Soviet Union shot down an intelligence-gathering aircraft piloted by Francis Gary Powers.
Powers’ flight began at this country’s Peshawar Airport. This nation contains the eastern portion of the Khyber Pass.
This successor of Harry Truman was the United States President at the time of the U-2 incident. He is more famous for criticizing the military-industrial complex in his farewell address and for beginning construction of the Interstate Highway System.
1960 U-2 incident [accept anything with U-2]
Pakistan
Dwight David Eisenhower &lt;LT&gt;
This ruler was married to Matilda of Flanders. For 10 points each:
Name this victor at the Battle of Hastings and first Norman King of England. Some versions of his name make reference to the fact that he was born out of wedlock.
This 1086 book resulted from a great survey that William ordered for tax purposes. Its creation is considered one of William’s major achievements, and it is an important historical resource.
In addition to commissioning the Domesday Book, William the Conqueror also worked hard to give this eldest son of his as little as possible in inheritance. William opted to give this man the Duchy of Normandy while his younger brother William received the Kingdom of England.
William the Conqueror [accept William I; accept William the Bastard; prompt on William]
Domesday Book (“DOOMS-day”) [accept Book of Winchester]
Robert Curthose [accept either underlined portion] &lt;LT&gt;
The Five Star movement in this country was founded by a popular comedian named Beppe Grillo. For 10 points each:
Name this Southern European country whose former Primer Minister Matteo Renzi resigned after losing a 2016 constitutional referendum.
Perhaps more important to Europe than the Italian Prime Minister is this man, who heads the European Central Bank and formerly headed the Bank of Italy. He has stated he will do “whatever it takes” to preserve the Euro and spread the discussion of potential so-called “helicopter money”
The current vice president of the European Central Bank, Vitor Constancio, hails from this nation. The current Secretary General of the United Nations, António Guterres, is also from here.
Italy
Mario Draghi
Portugal [accept Portuguese Republic] &lt;BL&gt;
This uprising began with the seizure of the General Post Office and the broadcast of a message proclaiming a republic over telegraph. For ten points each:
Name this 1916 uprising in which supporters of Home Rule attempted to seize a castle. It was led by men such as Patrick Pearse and James Connolly.
This diplomat authored a namesake report detailing the horrible state of affairs in the Congo Free State. He was later executed for attempting to organize German support for an anti-British rebellion in his home country during WWI in a trial which featured the revelation that he was a homosexual.
This nation was Roger Casement’s place of birth and the site of the Easter Rising.
Easter Rising
Roger David Casement
Ireland &lt;LT&gt;
Mary Leigh threw a hatchet at this man, but missed and hit Irish politician John Redmond instead. For 10 points each:
Name this British Prime Minister during the start of World War I, who resigned after the failure at Gallipoli.
H.H. Asquith was replaced as Prime Minister by David Lloyd George, who would become one of the “Big Four” at negotiations for this treaty that was notoriously harsh toward Germans.
The Allied forces lost at Gallipoli are honored by ANZAC Day, which is celebrated in New Zealand and this other Pacific country. It was originally founded as a penal colony for English convicts.
H(erbert) H(enry) Asquith
Treaty of Versailles
Commonwealth of Australia
A PM from this party resigned in 1989 after being accused of receiving bribes from the company Recruit. For 10 points each:
Name this right-wing party which has traditionally dominated the Diet since the end of World War Two.
The LDP was founded during the reign of this emperor, who published numerous scientific papers about Hydrozoa. His reign included his delivery of the Jewel Voice Broadcast.
Hirohito delivered the Jewel Voice Broadcast six days after the United States dropped an atomic bomb on this city. Tsutomu Yamaguchi survived both the bombing at Hiroshima and this city.
Liberal Democratic Party (or LDP; or Jiyu-Minshuto)
Hirohito (or Emperor Shōwa)
Nagasaki
This man derisively called the UN “le Machin,” or “the thingamajig.” For 10 points each:
Name this World War II hero and founder of the French Fifth Republic. He angered Canada by shouting “Vive le Quebec libre!” at the 1967 Montreal World Expo.
de Gaulle chafed at American and British dominance of this military alliance of Western nations, withdrawing French forces in 1959. Its Eastern counterpart was the Warsaw Pact.
Under de Gaulle, France ended the Algerian War of Independence by signing these “Accords,” for which de Gaulle was later targeted by the OAS for assassination in retribution.
Charles (André Joseph Marie) de Gaulle
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Evian Accords
This king’s prime minister William Grenville controversially appointed Charles Fox to the Ministry of All the Talents. For 10 points each:
Name this British monarch who infamously presided over the rebellion of the American colonies. This “mad king” potentially had porphyria.
George III’s reign included the ministries of two men with this surname. The “Elder” one of them successfully led Britain to victory in the Seven Years’ War.
George III was the only monarch whose reign encompassed the entire lifetime of one of his Prime Ministers. That Prime Minister was this man, who was assassinated in 1812 by the disgruntled merchant John Bellingham.
George III (prompt on George)
Pitt (accept William Pitt the Elder; accept William Pitt the Younger)
Spencer Perceval
This agency was responsible for responding to the Valley of the Drums crisis. For 10 points each:
Name this government agency created during Richard Nixon’s administration. Its first head, William Ruckelshaus, later resigned his post as Deputy Attorney General during the Saturday Night Massacre.
Ruckelshaus oversaw hearings which led to the banning of this toxic chemical in the U.S. Its use was the main target of Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring.
Another major victory for American conservationists was the passage of the Endangered Species Act in 1973, which led to increased populations of this national bird of the United States.
Environmental Protection Agency (or EPA)
DDT (or dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane)
bald eagles (or Haliaeetus leucocephalus; prompt on eagle)
One species of this animal went unstudied for years because sailors couldn’t stop eating the specimens they were transporting back. For 10 points each:
Name these reptiles. A Roman military formation named for them used a wall of shields in imitation of this animal’s shell.
A snapping turtle named “Ograbme” bites a barrel-carrying man in the butt in a political cartoon attacking the Embargo Act, which was signed into law by this early American president.
The turtle ship was designed by this Korean admiral to repel invasions. After his death at the Battle of Noryang, his nephew wore his armor and beat his war drum to keep morale high.
tortoise (or turtle; or giant tortoise; accept any other specific species)
Thomas Jefferson
Yi Sun-sin
Andrew Jackson warned that the namesake of this legislation “wasn’t a man to be trusted with the nation’s cash.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1845 adjustment in the tax levied on imports, named for the then-Secretary of the Treasury. It was a significant reduction from the earlier “Black Tariff.”
The Walker Tariff was one of the four major goals of this president’s administration. The Oregon Treaty and the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo were both signed during his tenure.
Polk sent Nicholas Trist to negotiate the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo with this country, which had to give up territory in what is now California, Arizona, and several other southwestern states.
Walker Tariff
James K(nox) Polk
Mexico (or the United Mexican States)
This event occurred after the arrest of the orator Henry Hunt. For 10 points each:
Name this 1819 event in which 15 protesters were killed. Percy Shelley’s “The Masque of Anarchy” was written in response to this event.
The Peterloo Massacre occurred in this English city. Its booming textile manufacturing inspired the nickname “Cottonopolis,” and its residents were featured in Friedrich Engel’s The Condition of the Working Class in England.
Manchester was an epicenter of this 19th-century period, in which small, home-based labor was replaced with large-scale manufacturing, often taking place in factories using new machines and innovations such as steam power.
Peterloo Massacre
Manchester
Industrial Revolution
As prime minister, one politician with this surname initiated Project-706, which eventually led to the Chagai-I nuclear test in 1998. For 10 points each:
Give this surname shared by several leaders of one country’s Peoples Party. A female former prime minister with this surname was killed in 2007 by a suicide bomber in Rawalpindi.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto led this South Asian country. Before its independence in 1971, Bangladesh was known as “East [this country]”, which split from India in 1948.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto also signed the Simla Agreement with India, permanently establishing this boundary which today serves as the de facto border between the Indian and Pakistani portions of Jammu and Kashmir.
Bhutto (accept Zulfikar Ali Bhutto; accept Benazir Bhutto)
Islamic Republic of Pakistan (or Islami Jumhuriyah Pakistan)
Line of Control (prompt on LOC; prompt on Cease-fire Line)
Name the following cities that suffered race riots in America, for 10 points each:
Accusations that Dick Rowland had sexually assaulted Sarah Page in an elevator led to a series of 1921 riots in this city, which destroyed its wealthy African-American district of Greenwood.
Rumors that a black woman and her child had been thrown into a river sparked 1943 riots in this city beginning in its Belle Isle Park. This city acquired the nickname “Motown” due to its vibrant auto manufacturing industry.
The anti-Hispanic Zoot Suit riots took place in this city, as did a 1965 riot prompted by the arrest of motorist Marquette Fry and allegations of police brutality.
Tulsa, Oklahoma
Detroit, Michigan
Los Angeles, California (or LA; anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on Watts)
One politician with this surname created a namesake “foundation” that promoted social welfare projects, including a theme park called the “Republic of the Children.” For 10 points each:
Give this surname of a South American political couple who were supported by the descamisados, or “shirtless ones.” Their first names were Juan and Eva.
Juan Perón and his wife Eva led this South American country. During its “Dirty War,” many political opponents were “disappeared” by a right-wing government based in Buenos Aires.
Both Juan and Eva Perón gave speeches from the balcony of this executive mansion next to the Plaza del Mayo in Buenos Aires. Its namesake color was a combination of colors of the rival Federales and Unitarians.
Perón
Argentina (or the Argentine Republic)
Casa Rosada (or the Pink House)
This city was served by a port at the nearby town of Ostia. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient city which was sacked by Visigoths under Alaric in 410 BCE. The massive empire named after this city is usually said to have fallen in 476 after being taken over by Vandals.
Rome had previously been sacked in 387 BCE by Brennus, a leader of these people based in modern France. Julius Caesar claimed their land was divided into three parts and crushed their leader Vercingetorix at Alesia.
By the time Alaric sacked Rome, it had been replaced as the imperial capital by this other Italian city. After the fall of Rome, this city became the capital of the Ostrogothic Kingdom.
Rome
Gauls (anti-prompt [ask for less specificity] on Arverni)
Ravenna
One “Grand Prince” of this city defeated the Teutonic Knights at the Battle on the Ice. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the capital of a namesake Rus. Rurik had moved the capital to this city after gaining control of the land that would become that Rus.
This Grand Prince of Kiev allegedly declined to convert to Islam due to its prohibition on alcohol, instead Christianizing the Kievan Rus via a mass baptism in the Dnieper River.
The Kievan Rus eventually crumbled under invasion by the Golden Horde and Batu, who held this title as leader of the Mongol empire. Other holders of this title included Ogedai and Genghis.
Kiev
Vladimir the Great (or Vladimir Sviatoslavich the Great; prompt on Vladimir)
Khan (accept khagan)
In the aftermath of this event, <em>The Sun</em> published an inflammatory article headlined “The Truth” which claimed that people had urinated on police officers trying to help its victims. For 10 points each:
Name this stampede, which killed 96 people at a 1989 soccer match between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest in the namesake stadium in Sheffield.
The Hillsborough disaster occurred during the term of this Conservative Prime Minister, who was succeeded by John Major after attempts to introduce a “poll tax.”
Thatcher had earlier been derisively called “Milk Snatcher” while serving as Secretary of State for [this service] and Science. Institutions that provide this service in Britain include Eton, Oxford, and Cambridge.
Hillsborough disaster
Margaret (Hilda) Thatcher
education (prompt on synonyms like teaching or schooling)
In his dissent in this ruling, Robert Jackson wrote that military decisions were not always subject to civilian legal interpretation. For 10 points each:
Name this 1944 Supreme Court ruling, which upheld the constitutionality of Executive Order 9066.
At issue in Korematsu was the detention of American citizens of this ethnicity in places like Manzanar, which started shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
One challenge to Japanese internment arose when Mitsuye Endo filed for this type of writ, guaranteed by Article One, Section Nine of the Constitution. Abraham Lincoln suspended it during the Civil War.
Korematsu v. United States
Japanese-Americans (prompt on Asian; Ed’s note: in all seriousness, accept Jap...but do please note the outdatedness of the term)
writ of habeas corpus (prompt on you have the body and similar meanings, I guess)
One of these objects was used for reconnaissance during the Battle of Fleurus. For 10 points each:
In a 1783 demonstration for the the royal court, the Montgolfier brothers placed a duck, a rooster, and a sheep in one of these objects. Humans were added a few weeks later.
These brothers were the first to achieve heavier-than-air flight in 1903 when their namesake “flyer” took off from Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.
This British aircraft manufacturer debuted the first commercial passenger jet, the Comet, in 1949. Their other innovative aircraft include the Mosquito, a wooden fighter-bomber made for the Royal Air Force in World War II.
hot air balloon
Wright brothers (accept Wilbur and Orville Wright; accept Wright Flyer)
de Havilland
One supporter of this cause was Emily Davison, who threw herself in front of King George V’s horse in 1913. For 10 points each:
Name this cause. In Great Britain, many supporters of this cause went on hunger strikes in prison. Meanwhile, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony fought for this right in the United States.
The pro-suffrage Women’s Social and Political Union was founded by this woman and her daughters Christabel and Sylvia. Mary Richardson slashed the Rokeby Venus to protest this suffragette’s imprisonment.
In Britain, women over 21 were allowed to vote in 1928, 35 years after this country became the first in the world to allow all women to vote in parliamentary elections.
women’s suffrage (or suffragettes; accept any answer about allowing women to vote or enfranchising women or equivalents; prompt on voting or enfranchisement or any other answer that does not mention women)
Emmeline Pankhurst (or Emmeline Goulden)
New Zealand (or Aotearoa)
After the brother of one man involved in this scandal was arrested, the Supreme Court case <em>McGrain v. Daugherty</em> ruled that Congress had the ability to compel testimony. For 10 points each:
Name this scandal which arose after Interior Secretary Albert Fall leased oil-rich land in the namesake Wyoming location in exchange for bribes.
The Teapot Dome and various other scandals plagued the administration of this president, whose death in office in 1923 led to the presidency of Calvin Coolidge. In 2015, DNA testing confirmed he had an illegitimate child with Nan Britton.
The Teapot Dome and other scandals during Harding’s presidency frequently involved this close group of his advisers. They often carried out unscrupulous activities from the “Little Green House on K Street.”
Teapot Dome scandal
Warren G(amaliel) Harding (Writer’s note: and in 2014, several letters to his mistress Carrie Phillips were released that included him instructing her to call his private parts “Jerry.” Look out, JFK…)
Ohio Gang (prompt on partial; accept exact phrase only)
The tide of this battle is alleged to have turned when the losing side ran from the battlefield in order to protect their camp and all the loot inside. For 10 points each:
Name this battle in which Frankish infantry defeated forces under Abd ar-Rahman. It took place after an appeal by Odo the Great as an invading force approached the River Loire.
This Frankish general earned the epithet “the Hammer” for his legendarily “Christianity saving” victory at Tours.
Charles Martel’s grandson was this Frankish king. This man was the first Holy Roman Emperor and the founder of the Carolingian dynasty.
Battle of Tours (or the Battle of Poitiers; or the Battle of the Palace of the Martyrs)
Charles Martel (prompt on “Charles”)
Charlemagne (or Charles the Great; or Charles I; prompt on “Charles”)
This man led a force that defeated a 650,000 sailor-strong navy in the Battle of Lake Poyang. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor, born the son of poor farmers in Anhui. As leader of the Red Turban Rebellion, he overthrew the Yuan Dynasty to take the throne.
Hongwu was the first emperor of this dynasty that succeeded the Yuan. This dynasty greatly increased Chinese exploration under admirals like Zheng He and was known for its blue and white ceramics.
Hongwu improved China’s relationship with people of this religion through proclamations like the Hundred-Word Eulogy, which mentions this faith’s practice of five daily prayers.
Hongwu (or Zhu Yuanzhang)
Ming dynasty (or Ming chao)
Sunni Islam (accept either underlined portion; accept Muslims)
A Jesuit priest allegedly traveled all the way to Ireland to attend this man’s funeral and spit on his grave. For 10 points each:
Name this titan of early Irish politics, the founder of Fianna Fáil. He kept Ireland neutral during WWII as Taoiseach [“tee-shock”] for most of the 1940s.
Unlike Patrick Pearse and James Connolly, de Valera was not executed in the wake of this failed 1916 rebellion in Dublin against British rule named for the holiday on which it occurred.
British diplomat Roger Casement was executed for trying to secure German support for the Rising. Earlier, Casement had exposed the atrocities committed in the Congo Free State by agents of this country’s king Leopold II.
Éamon de Valera (or Edward de Valera; or George de Valero)
Easter Rising (accept synonyms for Rising like Rebellion)
Kingdom of Belgium
After leaving a “farewell letter” to his native country, this man served as a military advisor during the Simba rebellion in the Congo. For 10 points each:
Name this Cuban revolutionary, whom Alberto Korda depicted in an iconic photograph that now graces the T-shirts and dorm walls of college students.
This man, nicknamed the “African Che Guevara,” promoted women’s rights and founded the Pioneers of the Revolution as President of a nation he renamed from Upper Volta to Burkina Faso.
Prince Johnson alleged Sankara’s assassination was engineered by Charles Taylor, the then president of this country. This country was founded by former American slaves and is now led by Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.
Che Guevara (accept either underlined portion; accept Ernesto Guevara)
Thomas (Isidore Noël) Sankara
Republic of Liberia
This man was so obsessed with the monetization of silver that he named one of his sons “Legal Tender.” For 10 points each:
Name this activist and leader of the “Commonwealth in Christ,” who led a namesake “army” to Washington, D.C. before being arrested for trespassing on the Capitol lawn.
Coxey’s Army formed during this man’s presidency, the only Democratic administration between 1870 and 1912. He was taunted over rumors of an illegitimate child with the slogan “Ma, Ma, where’s my Pa?”
Supporters of Coxey’s Army led by William Hogan hijacked one of these vehicles trying to get to Washington. The transcontinental type of this transportation was completed at Promontory Point, Utah.
Jacob (Sechler) Coxey(, Sr.) (accept Coxey’s Army)
(Stephen) Grover Cleveland
railroad (or trains)
The lowest levels of this organization, the “Brothers” and the “Recommended,” were not told of its chief goal, and its leadership was known as the “Invisible Authority.” For 10 points each:
Name this secret, Freemason-like revolutionary organization whose most prominent leader was Alexander Ypsilantis.
The Filiki Eteria fought for the independence of this country from the Ottomas. A major setback in that war of independence was the Ottoman capture of the Acropolis in this country’s capital.
After achieving independence, Greece was ruled by a series of kings, including one of this name who died of a monkey bite. A tsar of this name emancipated the serfs and was killed by a group known as the People’s Will.
Filiki Eteria (or the Society of Friends)
Kingdom of Greece (or the First Hellenic Republic; or Hellas; Ed’s note: fun fact: the hex code for the blue in Greece’s flag is literally #1453AD)
Alexander (accept Alexander I; accept Alexander II)
This monarch’s namesake “cylinder” contains what has been controversially called the world’s first declaration of human rights. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the Achaemenid dynasty who conquered both the Medes and the Lydians.
Cyrus started the Achaemenid dynasty in this empire, whose later king Darius III would lose the Battles of Issus and Gaugamela to Alexander the Great. This empire also repeatedly tried to invade Greece.
This Greek historian wrote a fictionalized biography of Cyrus the Great called the Cyropaedia. He documented Cyrus the Younger’s failed attempt to usurp the Persian throne in his Anabasis.
Cyrus the Great (or Cyrus II; prompt on Cyrus)
Persia
Xenophon
For 10 points each, answer some questions about three cities with something in common:
This city forms the “D” in the “DMV.” Pierre Charles L’Enfant was its city planner.
This Ivy League university was founded in New Haven, Connecticut in 1701. The secret societies at this supposed rival to Harvard University are called “tombs.”
Along with Raynor’s hometown of Washington, D.C., and Robert’s hometown of New Haven, other senior Vimal claims Dallas as a hometown. This 710-mile river flows past downtown Dallas, where it runs under Calatrava’s Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge. It has East, West, Clear, and Elm Forks.
Washington, D.C. (accept either or both underlined parts; accept District of Columbia)
Yale University (prompt on Collegiate College, I guess; Ed’s note: prompt on hell)
Trinity River
Expecting to die, some defenders of this location deserted their posts and raided its rum stores to get drunk instead. For 10 points each:
Name this military location captured during the French and Indian War by French troops who were occupying nearby Fort Duquesne. This place derived its name from the circumstances surrounding its hasty construction.
This general surrendered for the only time at Fort Necessity. He would go on to accept Charles Cornwallis’ surrender at Yorktown before becoming the first U.S. president.
The French attacked Fort Necessity after this man was killed and his brains allegedly used as hand soap in a battle at his namesake “Glen,” thus starting the French and Indian War.
Fort Necessity
George Washington
Joseph Coulon de Villiers, Sieur de Jumonville (accept Jumonville Glen; accept the Jumonville Affair)
In one speech, this man said that the “great questions of the day” would be decided “Blood and Iron.” For 10 points each:
Name this “Iron Chancellor” of Prussia. He heavily edited the Ems dispatch to provoke war with France and was the main force behind German unification in the second half of the 19th century.
Bismarck’s education minister Adalbert Falk gave his name to a series of laws restricting the power of this institution. It was the main target of Bismarck’s Kulturkampf.
German relations with the Catholic Church improved after this man became pope in 1878. Highlights of his long pontificate, which lasted until 1903, included advocating for social welfare in the encyclical Rerum novarum.
Otto von Bismarck (or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg)
the Catholic Church (prompt on the Church)
Leo XIII (prompt on Leo)
This company was blacklisted by one country until its products were needed to fight the Kargil War against Pakistan. For 10 points each:
Name this Swedish arms manufacturer. It allegedly bribed politicians to win a contract to supply artillery to India in the 1980s.
The Bofors scandal led to the downfall of an Indian politician with this surname. Other people with this surname included Indira and the leader of the Indian independence movement, Mahatma.
Indira Gandhi was assassinated following her authorization of Operation Blue Star to seize the Golden Temple in this Punjabi city. A massacre occurred after Reginald Dyer ordered troops to fire on protesters in this city.
Bofors AB (accept the Bofors scandal)
Gandhi (accept Rajiv Gandhi or Indira Gandhi or Mahatma Gandhi)
Amritsar
Answer the following about Jan Zizka, for 10 points each:
Zizka was a military commander of this pre-Reformation Czech religious group in a series of their namesake “wars.” They followed a man who was burned at the stake in 1415.
Zizka basically invented field artillery at the Battle of Kutná Hora, where he defeated a coalition of the Holy Roman Empire and this other country, which would later form a union with Austria broken up after World War I.
Zizka’s most famous military tactic was probably the use of these armored vehicles. Pulled by horses, they allowed soldiers to shoot out of the sides and were a kind of early mechanized infantry.
Hussites (or Jan Hus; or Hussite Wars)
Kingdom of Hungary (or Magyar Királyság; or Austria-Hungary)
war wagons
This man’s wife drove over her dead father’s body with a chariot in a road now known as the “Street of Crime.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who usurped Servius Tullius to become king of Rome. He himself was popularly overthrown after his son Sextus raped a woman named Lucretia.
The overthrow of Tarquin was led by a Tribune of the Celeres with this name. Another man of this name would later be asked “Et tu?” while stabbing Julius Caesar to death.
Tarquinius Superbus then invited Lars Porsena to invade Rome, which prompted a Roman named Mucius to do this action as a sign of bravery. Malcolm Browne won a Pulitzer for his photo of a Buddhist monk calmly doing this.
Tarquin the Proud (or Lucius Tarquinius Superbus; prompt on Lucius Tarquinius)
Brutus (or Lucius Junius Brutus; or Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger)
setting oneself on fire (or self-immolation; accept synonyms and equivalent phrases; accept placing one’s hand into a fire; be nice and prompt on suicide even though Mucius didn’t really try to kill himself)
Wilhelm Loeser helped this man disguise himself by giving him plastic surgery and trying to obliterate his fingerprints with acid. For 10 points each:
Name this Depression-era gangster and bank robber. He was infamously betrayed to federal agents by Ana Cumpanas, the “Woman in Red.”
Dillinger escaped from a jail in this state’s town of Crown Point by using a fake gun carved from a potato. Madam C.J. Walker made her fortune selling beauty products to this state’s residents, who are known as “Hoosiers.”
Two brothers with this surname joined Alvin Karpis to found a gang that kidnapped banker Edward Bremer in 1934. Contrary to popular belief, that gang was probably not masterminded by their middle-aged mother.
John (Herbert) Dillinger
Indiana
Barker (accept the Barker-Karpis gang; accept Fred Barker; accept Arthur “Doc” Barker; accept Arizona Donnie “Ma” Barker)
The prospect of peace with this country was denied by the signatories of the Khartoum Resolution, which outlined the “Three Nos.” For 10 points each:
Name this Jewish state which controls disputed areas like Golan Heights and the West Bank.
Israel seized those territories in this 1967 conflict, beginning when Israel carried out a preemptive strike that nearly wiped out Egypt’s air force. It is named for its brief length.
During the Six-Day War, Israel mistakenly--depending on whom you believe--attacked this American spy ship, leading to the death of 34 U.S. sailors.
State of Israel (or Medinat Yisra’el)
Six-Day War (or June War; prompt on “Arab-Israeli War”)
USS Liberty (or AGTR-5)
Prior to the defeat of this force, one monarch claimed that she had “the heart and stomach of a king.” For 10 points each:
Name this invading military force which was hindered by the “Protestant wind” and defeated at the Battle of Gravelines [“gravf-leen”].
The defeat of the Spanish Armada occurred during the reign of this Tudor queen, the daughter of Anne Boleyn. She never married, earning her the nickname of the “Virgin Queen.”
Francis Walsingham uncovered this plan to overthrow Elizabeth and replace her with Mary, Queen of Scots. Led by John Ballard and the title noble, it, like the earlier Throckmorton Plot, failed.
The Spanish Armada (or Grande y Felicísima Armada; prompt on “Spanish navy” and equivalents)
Elizabeth I (prompt on “Elizabeth”)
Babington Plot
A monument to this ship in Central Park is topped by a gilded statue of Columbia being pulled by three hippocampi. For 10 points each:
Name this warship which sank in Havana harbor in 1898. Although “yellow journalists” claimed it was destroyed by saboteurs, it probably fell victim to a boiler explosion.
The sinking of the Maine led the U.S. to declare war on this European power, eventually leading to the U.S. gaining control over this country’s territories of Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Philippines, and Guam.
Spanish naval power in the Pacific was destroyed in the Battle of Manila Bay, which commenced when George Dewey gave this immortal command to Charles Vernon Gridley.
USS Maine (or ACR-1)
Kingdom of Spain (or Reino de España)
“You may fire when ready, Gridley” (or “You may fire when you are ready, Gridley;” accept no other answers)
A rickshaw-like vehicle known as the becak was ubiquitous in this city before they were banned in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose skyline is dominated by the mortar-and-pestle-shaped Monas monument, which was built during the rule of Sukarno. It is the capital of Indonesia.
Jakarta was known as Batavia when Indonesia was a colony of this European country. It exercised its control over Indonesia through the VOC, its “East India Company.”
Upon becoming President of Indonesia, Sukarno promulgated this state philosophy of five principles, which include monotheism, Indonesian unity, and the promotion of a welfare state.
Jakarta
the Netherlands (or Nederland; prompt on Dutch East India Company; prompt on Dutch East Indies)
pancasila
During one event in this city, the Danish king Christian II dug up, then burned the body of a man who had earlier died at the Battle of Bogesund. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the site of a namesake 1520 “Bloodbath” targeted against supporters of Sten Sture the Younger. Christian II’s successful conquest of this capital city of Sweden brought the country under his control.
This Swedish Prime Minister was assassinated in Stockholm in 1986. Christer Pettersson was arrested for his murder but was eventually acquitted, and the crime remains unsolved.
Palme was a major proponent of this energy source. Due to the Messmer Plan, France primarily relies on this energy source for electricity, and Germany has announced plans to remove all plants for this energy form by 2022.
Stockholm
(Sven) Olof (Joachim) Palme
nuclear energy (accept equivalents)
Although this general left behind a collection of thousands of letters he had written during his life, none mention his mother. For 10 points each:
Name this incompetent Confederate general, the first commander of the Army of Tennessee. He somehow managed to defeat the even more incompetent William Rosencrans at the Battle of Chickamauga.
Bragg lost his command after this Union general, who was supported by a supply chain known as the “Cracker Line,” beat him at Chattanooga. This man would later accept Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox Courthouse.
Bragg’s detractors criticize him for ordering multiple useless frontal assaults at the “Hornet’s Nest” at this extremely bloody battle in Tennessee. It is also known as the Battle of Pittsburg Landing.
Braxton Bragg
Ulysses S(impson) Grant (or Hiram Ulysses Grant)
Battle of Shiloh
This state was preceded by a personal union that began with the marriage of Jadwiga and Władysław II Jagiełło. For 10 points each:
Name this combination of two Eastern European states created by the 1569 Union of Lublin. Any member of its sejm could kill proposed legislation by using a liberum veto, which made getting anything done very difficult.
Poland-Lithuania’s power was broken by this invasion during the Second Northern War. Swedish king Charles X Gustav led this campaign, aided by the turncoat George II Rakoczi, Prince of Transylvania.
Poland-Lithuania had earlier defeated this Russian during the Livonian War. This tsar was succeeded by the mentally disabled Fyodor I after killing his other son, a display of his nickname as “the Terrible.”
Poland-Lithuania (or the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth; or the Republic of Both Nations; or the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania; prompt on partial answer)
The Deluge
Ivan IV Vasilyevich (or Ivan the Terrible; or Ivan the Fearsome; do not accept “Ivan” if they give the wrong number or nickname)
This empire was supposedly founded by the Queen of Sheba. For 10 points each:
Name this empire in present-day Ethiopia, known for erecting large stone pillars called stelae.
Ezana was the first leader of Aksum to embrace this faith after it was brought over by St. Frumentius. Constantine the Great was the first Roman emperor of this now widely spread faith.
The trading power of Aksum was recorded in one of these documents named for the Erythrean Sea. These Greek manuscripts aided sailors by providing a map of notable ports and other locations on a body of water.
Kingdom of Aksum (or Aksumite Empire; dunno why it would ever matter, but accept Axum)
Christianity
periplus (or peripli; Ed’s note: shoutouts to Will Alston)
Claudette Colvin was arrested in this city, where Martin Luther King Jr. delivered one of his first major speeches at the Holt Street Baptist Church. For 10 points each:
Name this Southern city, the site of an event that lasted 381 days. Three marches from Selma to this city took place in favor of the Voting Rights Act.
The Montgomery bus boycott began after this seamstress was arrested for refusing to give up her seat on a bus to a white man.
A prominent leader of the boycott was E.D. Nixon, a leader of the NAACP and member in this labor organization made up of railway employees. Its founder and leading voice was Asa Philip Randolph.
Montgomery, Alabama (accept Montgomery bus boycott)
Rosa (Louise McCauley) Parks
Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters (prompt on “BSCP”)
Accusations of vote-buying in this scandal led to the swift introduction of a secret ballot by the next government. For 10 points each:
Name this scandal in which Hugh Allan bribed lawmakers to win a contract to build a railroad. It led to the downfall of John Macdonald’s government.
Due to the Pacific scandal, John Macdonald resigned from this position, which he was the first to hold. Wilfrid Laurier was the first holder of this position to grow up in a French-speaking household.
The Prime Minister of Canada lives at 24 Sussex Drive in this city, Canada’s capital. Hundreds of unemployed workers once boarded trains in the “On-to-[this city] Trek.”
Pacific scandal
Prime Minister of Canada (prompt on partial answer)
Ottawa
These monarchs supposedly used the motto “tanto monta, monta tanto,” which roughly translates to “they are equal.” For 10 points each:
Name this husband and wife, a pair of Spanish monarchs whose wedding joined the kingdoms of Castile and Aragón. They sponsored Christopher Columbus’ voyage to the New World.
Ferdinand and Isabella issued the Alhambra Decree in 1492, expelling these people from Spain unless they became conversos.
Ferdinand and Isabella’s grandson Charles V crushed this Castilian peasant revolt in 1521. This anti-noble revolt sought to replace Charles V with his mother, Joanna the Mad.
Ferdinand II of Aragón and Isabella I of Castile (prompt on partial answer)
Sephardic Jews (or Jewish people)
Revolt of the Comuneros (or War of the Communities of Castile; or Guerra de los Comunidades de Castilla)
One key figure in this movement was the orator “Black Harry” Hosier. For 10 points each:
Name this religious movement started in the late 18th century. The Methodist and Baptist denominations grew enormously during this period, which is not to be confused with a similar movement spearheaded by George Whitefield [“hwit-feeld”].
So-called “burned-over districts” were particularly fervent hotbeds of the Second Great Awakening. They mostly arose in this state where DeWitt Clinton oversaw the construction of the Erie Canal.
New York was also a center of this movement, named for a preacher who claimed that Jesus would return on October 22, 1844. The notable absence of any rapturing on that date became known as the “Great Disappointment.”
Second Great Awakening (prompt on Great Awakening)
New York
Millerism (or Millerites; accept William Miller; prompt on “Seventh-Day Adventists”)
One prince of this country captured Edmund Mortimer at the Battle of Bryn Glas, after which Mortimer married his daughter and became his ally. For 10 points:
Name this country. The current “Prince” of this country is Charles, and this country is located on Great Britain to the west of England.
This man was the last native son of Wales to be Prince of Wales. This nationalist hero fought a long-running revolt against English rule around the same time as Henry Percy, and he was the lord of Glyndyfrdwy [“Glin-dif-ERD-wee”].
After Edward Longshanks conquered Wales, he built several of these things, such as one at Harlech. In England, William I introduced the motte-and-bailey type of them.
Wales (or Cymru)
Owain Glyndwr [“gleen-doo-r”] (or Owen Glendower; prompt on Owain or Owen alone)
castles (prompt on fortifications and other synonyms)
An October 2016 referendum to ratify a peace agreement narrowly failed in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this South American country with capital at Bogotá. Its President Juan Manuel Santos received the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating the aforementioned agreement with guerrilla forces in this country.
This Marxist-Leninist guerilla movement in Colombia was the other signatory to the peace agreement. This group has received widespread criticism over its use of child soldiers and frequent kidnappings.
This man succeeded Alfonso Cano as commander-in-chief of FARC in November 2011. This man is believed to be located near the Colombia-Venezuela border, deep in the heartland of FARC-held territory.
Republic of Colombia
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia – People's Army (or FARC; or Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia – Ejército del Pueblo)
Timochenko (or Rodrigo Londoño Echeverri; or Timoleón Jiménez)
All your wildest dreams have come true--you are now Hulagu Khan. Answer some questions about your exploits for 10 points each:
In 1256, you conquer Alamut, a stronghold of this sect of hashish-using warriors who give their name to the modern word for politically motivated murders.
You then go on to sack this city in 1258, an important center of Abbasid learning. Your destruction of the House of Wisdom in this city is said to have caused rivers to run black with ink.
Unfortunately, you miss this 1260 battle because the death of your brother Mongke forces you to return to Mongolia. Your general Kitbuga gets crushed by Mamluks under Baibars here, halting Mongol expansion into Palestine.
Assassins (prompt on Nizaris; prompt on Isma’ilis)
Baghdad
Battle of Ain Jalut
A famous example of these infrastructure projects was swiftly replaced after its creator’s death by Antoninus Pius, who built a more northerly version. For 10 points each:
Name these common fortifications. One of these was built in Britain to keep out barbarians such as the Picts and was named for Hadrian.
The Antonine Wall is sometimes misattributed to Septimius Severus, who won a power struggle in 193 called the “Year of [this many] Emperors.” Marcus Aurelius was the last of this many “Good” Roman emperors.
Several centuries after Hadrian, this powerful Mercian king continued the fine tradition of English wall-building by constructing his namesake dyke near the present English-Welsh border.
walls (or vallum)
five
Offa of Mercia
Answer the following about so-called “great” things in American history, for 10 points each:
This president’s “Great Society” included initiatives such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as a “War on Poverty.”
The 1929 stock market crash and subsequent Great Depression led to the creation of shantytowns named after this president, who would be defeated by Franklin Roosevelt in the 1932 election.
After the fall of Louisbourg during the French and Indian War, the Great Expulsion displaced more than 10,000 of these French-speaking people from Canada. Some moved to Louisiana, where they became known as Cajuns.
Lyndon B(aines) Johnson (or LBJ; prompt on “Johnson”)
Herbert (Clark) Hoover (accept Hoovervilles)
Acadians
According to Wikipedia, this man recovered to become a successful moose hunter after having half of his face blown off by a bullet. For 10 points each:
Name this marksman nicknamed “White Death” for his 505 confirmed sniper kills, the most in history.
Häyhä helped this country inflict massive casualties on the Soviets during the Winter War. This country then signed the Moscow Peace Treaty, but resumed fighting with the USSR in the Continuation War.
The Soviet Union was expelled from this organization for instigating the Winter War. It really didn’t matter, since this ineffectual organization would be replaced by the United Nations less than a decade later.
Simo Häyhä (or Simuna Häyhä)
Republic of Finland (or Suomi or Suomen tasavalta)
League of Nations
Medicine can sometimes be dangerous...for patients. Answer the following about historical figures killed by their doctors, for 10 points each:
This historian died of an infection resulting from surgery to fix the testicular swelling caused by his fondness for tight pants. Before his death, this man wrote a six-volume history of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
Charles the Bad, a leader of this kingdom between Spain and France, died when the alcohol-soaked rags his nurses swaddled him in caught fire. Several Sanchos ruled this Basque kingdom once called Pamplona.
Some claims of medical malpractice are fabricated, such as this leader’s declaration that his Jewish doctors were conspiring to assassinate him. This man led the Soviet Union during World War II.
Edward Gibbon
Kingdom of Navarre
Joseph (Vissarionovich) Stalin (or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzugashvili)
While leading an expedition up the Río de la Plata, this man faced a mutiny from his subordinates Martin Méndez and Miguel de Rodas, so he left them to die on an island. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian-born explorer. He led several English attempts to find the Northwest Passage after accompanying an expedition led by his father John which discovered the North American mainland.
Sebastian Cabot may have been the second explorer to accomplish this feat. The first instance of this travelling feat is usually credited to Ferdinand Magellan.
Sebastian Cabot may also have discovered the entrance to a body of water named for this captain of the Half-Moon. A mutiny against this man led him to be cast adrift in that body of water, where he probably died.
Sebastian Cabot (or Sebastiano Caboto; prompt on Cabot)
circumnavigating the world (accept word forms; accept synonyms for sailing around the world)
Henry Hudson (accept Hudson Bay)
You are a Catholic in England in the early 18th century. Answer the following about why your life sucks, for 10 points each:
Your ancestors were executed for their participation in this failed 1605 plot to blow up Parliament and James I to install a Catholic monarch. Led by Robert Catesby, its most famous conspirator was probably Guy Fawkes.
You fail in your attempt to find employment with the government of England due to the passage of this 1673 act, mandating that government officials pledge to take Communion according to Anglican practices.
Fed up, you finally decide to join this group of rebels as part of “the Forty-Five” in an attempt to restore Bonnie Prince Charlie of the House of Stuart to the English throne. Unfortunately, this rising fails and you are killed at the Battle of Prestonpans.
Gunpowder Plot
Test Act
Jacobites (accept Jacobite Rising of 1745; do not accept Jacobite Rising of 1715, though they’re fine if they don’t mention any year)
The tenth of eleven justifications for this event condemns a disastrous speaking tour known as the “Swing Around the Circle” campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this political event. John F. Kennedy’s Profiles in Courage commends Kansas Senator Edmund G. Ross’ opposition to this event, which cost him his seat two years later.
Edmund G. Ross was a member of this political party, whose “Radical” faction included Thaddeus Stevens and often quarreled with Johnson. Abraham Lincoln was the first president from this party.
The main impetus behind Johnson’s impeachment was his dismissal of Edwin Stanton from this office. This now-defunct Cabinet position was first held by Henry Knox.
the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson (accept any answers about the trial of Andrew Johnson or a vote to remove Andrew Johnson from office)
Republican Party (accept Radical Republicans; accept Grand Old Party)
Secretary of War (do not accept or prompt on “Secretary of Defense”)
The leader of this journey almost insulted his host Al-Malik al-Nasir by choosing to pray instead of meeting with him. For 10 points each:
Name this expedition of more than 60,000 people and 80 camels, which brought enough gold into Egypt to crash that country’s economy.
Mansa Musa was the absurdly rich ruler of this African kingdom. Founded by Sundiata Keita, it had its oral traditions passed down by storyteller-musicians called griots.
The Granadan architect al-Sahili designed this mosque and university for Mansa Musa. Along with the Djinguereber and Sidi Yahia, this institution comprised a center of higher learning in Timbuktu.
Mansa Musa I’s hajj (accept pilgrimage/journey/trip/etc. to Mecca in place of hajj; prompt on partial answer)
Mali Empire
Sankore University (or Sankore Madrasah; or Sankore Mosque; or Sankore Masjid)
Jacques Hébert, the editor of <em>Le Père Duchesne</em>, led an even-more-extreme subfaction of this group called the Hébertistes. For 10 points each:
Name this radical faction of the Jacobins led by Maximilien Robespierre. Their name came from their physical position in the Legislative Assembly, from which they argued with the Girondists.
The Montagnards were often supported by L’Ami du peuple, a radical newspaper founded by this man who was murdered in his bath by Charlotte Corday.
Robespierre, Danton, and Corday all met their deaths amidst the French Revolution at the hands of this contraption nicknamed the “national razor.” Its final use in France was to execute Hamida Djandoubi in 1977.
Montagnards (or La Montagne; or The Mountain)
Jean-Paul Marat
guillotine
After a battle at the Edisto River during this conflict, Chickasaw and Catawba Indians were hired to track down the remaining members of the losing side. For 10 points each:
Name this 1739 campaign, led by a man named either Jemmy or Cato with the intended goal of reaching Spanish Florida. An act passed in the wake of this conflict severely curtailed manumission.
The Stono Rebellion was a slave revolt in this state, also the site of a revolt by Denmark Vesey in its port city of Charleston.
Spanish Florida, the destination of the Stono slaves, became U.S. territory due to a treaty named for this secretary of state and Luis de Onis. This man also argued the Amistad case before the Supreme Court.
Stono Rebellion
South Carolina
John Quincy Adams (prompt on Adams, but do not accept or prompt on “John Adams”)
“Empires” that can claim to have been based in this region include the Assyrian and the more modern Safavid. For 10 points each:
Name this region that has in modern times changed its name to Iran at the request of Reza Pahlavi. The language with the same name as this region is also called Farsi.
This Persian empire succeeded the Parthian Empire, and was the last non-Islamic Persian empire. Its emperor Shapur I managed to capture the Roman emperor Valerian.
The first Sassanid shah Ardashir I was crowned in this Sassanid Empire capital city. All that effectively remains of this city is a massive arch called the Taq Kasra.
Persia (accept word forms)
Sassanid Empire (or Sassanian Empire)
Ctesiphon
Name some things about the presidency of Chester Arthur, for 10 points each:
Arthur became president after this Republican predecessor was assassinated by Charles Guiteau.
To prevent more Guiteau-like instances, Arthur signed this act. Named for an Ohio senator, it sought to eliminate the influence of political ties on government appointments.
Arthur also signed the Chinese Exclusion Act, partly due to this odious leader of the Workingmen’s Party of California. He ended most of his speeches by saying, “The Chinese must go.”
James A(bram) Garfield
Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act
Denis Kearney
The final leader of this kingdom, Ekkathat, was known as the “king with skin disease” by his subjects. For 10 points each:
Name this Southeast Asian kingdom. Naresuan, a king of this state, famously cut the Burmese prince Mingyi Swa in half while the two were battling atop a pair of elephants.
The Ayutthaya controlled land in this modern-day country. European traders who initially encountered the Ayutthaya called this country Siam.
This other Southeast Asian empire built a vast temple complex at Angkor. They share their name with the current predominant ethnic group in Cambodia.
Kingdom of Ayutthaya
Kingdom of Thailand
Khmer Empire
During this event, rebels killed anyone who could not properly pronounce the Italian word for “chickpeas.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1282 uprising that ended the rule of Charles of Anjou over a Mediterranean island, named for the religious rites that were occurring at the time the revolt broke out.
Charles of Anjou was the brother of this French king who died of dysentery during the Eighth Crusade. You can give either his name and number, or his more common title referring to his canonization.
As king, Louis IX expanded the power of this institution that ferreted out anti-Catholic heretics. Its Spanish iteration was led by Tomás de Torquemada and used devices like the rack.
Sicilian Vespers
Louis IX (or Saint Louis; prompt on Louis)
The Inquisition
Answer the following about everyone’s favorite royal family, the Bagrationi. For 10 points each:
During the Middle Ages, the Bagrationi ruled a kingdom that shares its name and most of its area with this modern country. This nation reached its Golden Age under Queen Tamar.
The most famous member of the Bagration family was probably the Russian general Pyotr, who died at the Battle of Klushino while fighting this Frenchman’s infamously ill-advised winter invasion of Russia.
Pyotr Bagration’s wife Catherine was also the mistress of this Austrian statesman and foreign minister most known for his organization of the Congress of Vienna.
Georgia (or the Kingdom of Georgia; or the Empire of Georgia)
Napoleon I Bonaparte (prompt on Bonaparte alone)
Klemens (Wenzel) von Metternich
With the assistance of Byzantine Emperor Manuel I Komnenos, this kingdom attempted an unsuccessful invasion of Fatimid Egypt. For 10 points each:
Name this Crusader state. It was centered in and named for a city whose Temple Mount is sacred to adherents of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
The Kingdom of Jerusalem was conquered in 1187 by this Ayyubid sultan and military genius after his forces captured Guy de Lusignan and Reynald de Châtillon at the Battle of Hattin.
Saladin had earlier been defeated at Montgisard by forces under this then-16-year-old King of Jerusalem, who led his army despite suffering from a debilitating infectious disease.
Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem
Saladin (or An-Nasir Salah ad-Din Yusuf ibn Ayyub)
Baldwin IV (or Baldwin the Leper; prompt on Baldwin)
Heritage sites destroyed by this group include the ruins of the ancient city of Palmyra and the the Palace of Ashurnasirpal at Nimrud. For 10 points each:
Name this terrorist group headed by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. It maintains its de facto headquarters in the Syrian city of al-Raqqah, and alternately uses names with the words “Levant” or “Syria.”
In Iraq, ISIS is being combated by the peshmerga, a security force made up of this minority ethnicity. These people make up the autonomous region of Rojava in Syria, and they’re the largest ethnic minority in Turkey.
In early 2015, ISIS launched an offensive that captured most of this large governorate in western Iraq, including its city of Fallujah. In February 2016, Iraqi forces retook its capital of Ramadi.
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (or Islamic State of Iraq and Syria; or ISIL or ISIS; or IS; or Daesh)
Kurds (or Kurdish people)
Al Anbar Governorate (or Anbar Province)
Samuel B. Moore exhumed the body of one of this group’s leader and concluded that his mysterious death on the Natchez Trace had been due to murder, not suicide. For 10 points each:
Name this group that made a two-year trip that began in Camp Dubois, wintered in Fort Clatsop in Oregon, and then returned to St. Louis.
Lewis and Clark led the Corps of Discovery in an expedition prominently aided by Sacagawea, a member of this tribe. Chief Pocatello was a leader of their northern branch, many of whom were killed in the Bear River Massacre.
William Clark owned this slave, who accompanied the expedition as the Corps of Discovery’s only black member.
Corps of Discovery (prompt on Lewis and Clark expedition, or anything mentioning those guys)
Shoshone (accept Lemhi; accept Northern Shoshone)
York
Answer the following about the reign of Justinian the Great, for 10 points each:
The Blues and Greens were factions of fans of this ancient sport who attempted to overthrow Justinian in the Nika riots. This sport was usually held in a hippodrome.
Justinian governed from this city on the Bosphorus. It changed its name to Istanbul in the 20th century.
One of Justinian’s lasting contributions to the Byzantine economy was overseeing the start of this industry during his reign. Justinian had two Nestorian monks smuggle the animals needed for this industry into the empire.
chariot racing (accept equivalents; prompt on racing and word forms)
Constantinople (prompt on Byzantium)
silk industry/production/etc. (or sericulture)
For 10 points each, name the following about the Midlothian campaign:
The Midlothian campaign was the brainchild of this politician. This consistent rival of Disraeli led the Liberal Party to victory in the 1880 election, starting the second of his four stints as Prime Minister.
In the Midlothian campaign, Gladstone criticized British conduct in the war against these African people, which included battles at Isandlwana and Rorke’s Drift. This empire was founded by Shaka.
Gladstone attacked Benjamin Disraeli’s support of the Ottoman Empire, especially after its crushing of the April Uprising in this modern-day country, which included namesake “horrors” such as the Batak massacre.
William Ewart Gladstone
Zulu Kingdom
Bulgaria (accept Bulgarian Horrors)
He ran his last campaign from a prison cell. For 10 points each:
Name this American socialist, who ran for president in 1900, 1904, 1908, 1912 and 1920.
In 1912 and 1920, Debs recorded some of his highest support in this state's Iron Range. Its capital, St. Paul, remains strongly Democratic.
Debs was not a fan of the "Sewer Socialism" developed in this Midwestern city. This city had a Socialist mayor until 1960, partly because its Socialists de-emphasized dogma and focused on improving public works.
Eugene V. Debs [his middle name is "Victor"]
State of Minnesota
Milwaukee 
Dozens of them were created as gifts for Alexander III and Nikolai II. For 10 points each:
 Name these jewel-encrusted decorative objects that were made by the firm FabergÃ©.
FabergÃ© eggs were coated with this hard, shiny material, which is more or less a glaze made from powdered glass applied to metal.
Many FabergÃ© eggs were encrusted with these incredibly hard gemstones. A blue one of them was named for Thomas Hope, and one in the British Royal scepter is called the Great Star of Africa.
FabergÃ© eggs [actually accept "Easter eggs," because that's what most of them were]
vitreous enamel
 diamonds
This ruler's nastier advisors included John the Cappadocian. For 10 points each:
Name this husband of Theodora, whose colorful reign was documented in the Secret History of Procopius.
John the Cappadocian helped Justinian devise the Corpus Juris Civilis, a massively influential one of these documents. Hammurabi issued one of these documents that advocated "eye for an eye"-type punishment.
Justinian's generals Belisarius and Narses conquered this kingdom. The works of this kingdom's scholars Cassiodorus and Boethius were critical for the transmission of Classical learning to the Middle Ages.
Justinian I [accept Justinian the Great]
 law code [accept any reasonable equivalent]
Ostrogothic Kingdom [accept rough equivalents like Ostrogoths]
This son of Philip II defeated Darius III at Issus and Gaugamela. For 10 points each:
Name this Macedonian general who conquered Turkey, Egypt, and Persia before dying at the age of 32.
Alexander the Great and his successors, the Diadochi, spread Greek learning and culture, ushering in this period of widespread Greek influence around the Mediterranean.
This general under Alexander and member of the Diadochi was beaten by Seleucus at the Battle of Ipsus, but he still managed to establish a namesake dynasty that took over Macedon and a lot of Greece.
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on just "Alexander"]
Hellenistic [accept word forms like Hellenism]
Antigonus I Monophthalmus [accept Antigonids] 
This state was divided into four provinces known as suyu and employed runners called chaski to deliver messages along its extensive road system. For 10 points each:
 Identify this state in modern-day Peru that was conquered by Francisco Pizarro in the 1530's. Pizarro executed this state's ruler, Atahualpa, despite the fact that Pizarro received a room full of gold.
This city was the capital of the Inca Empire. Pachacuti remodeled this city and expanded its holdings to form the Inca Empire.
This Incan ruler was the father of both Atahualpa and his brother Huascar.
 Incan Empire [or Tawantinsuyu]
Cusco
Huayna Capac
 The only "general" one of these events in Great Britain occurred in 1926. For 10 points each:
Name these events in which workers refuse to work.
The 1926 general strike came partially as a result of Winston Churchill reintroducing the Gold Standard. At the time, Churchill held this office, which is responsible for the economic and financial affairs of Britain.
Upon ascending to the prime ministership in 1940, Churchill moved into this building, the traditional headquarters of the British government and the residence of the prime minister. Give the house number and street name.
labor strikes [accept other types of strikes]
 Chancellor of the Exchequer [they need to say both underlined parts]
Number 10 Downing Street
After landing in Botany Bay in April of 1770, explorer James Cook claimed the land that now comprises this state for Britain and gave this state its modern name. For 10 points each:
Identify this Australian state. The First Fleet under Arthur Phillip founded this state's first colonial settlement, a penal colony, at Sydney.
The discovery of this material led to a massive influx of immigrants to Australia in the 1850's. The increase in license fees for the extraction of this substance led to a workers' rebellion at the Eureka Stockade in 1854.
A major gold rush occurred in this current Australian state in 1893 at Kalgoorlie. It was founded as the Swan River Colony in 1829, named for the river flowing through Perth.
 New South Wales [or NSW]
gold
Western Australia 
Maryland played an important role in the politics of the 60's and 70's. For 10 points each:
 Spiro Agnew, a former governor of Maryland, resigned from this other office after allegations of bribery and tax evasion surfaced. Per the Twenty-Fifth Amendment, he was succeeded in this office by Gerald Ford.
Agnew gained national fame for his response to this group's tumultuous 1967 activism in Cambridge, Maryland. Led at the time by H. Rap Brown, this group included other activists like Robert Parris Moses.
In 1972, this Southern politician was shot by Arthur Bremer in Laurel, Maryland. Four years earlier, he ran for president on the segregationist American Independent Party ticket.
Vice President of the United States of America [or Vice Presidency of the United States of America; accept VP]
 SNCC ["snick"] [or Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee; or Student National Coordinating Committee]
George [Corley] Wallace, [Junior]
These people signed the Treaty of Moultrie Creek and the Treaty of Payne's Landing. For 10 points each:
Name this Native American tribe from Florida that fought three wars against the United States army in the early nineteenth century.
This Seminole leader's attack of Willy Thompson near Fort King help catalyze the Second Seminole War.
The Treaty of Payne's Landing was negotiated by this American statesman. He later served as the ambassador to Mexico under Franklin Pierce, making his namesake purchase of territory in present-day Arizona and New Mexico.
the Seminole
This Seminole leader's attack of Willy Thompson near Fort King help catalyze the Second Seminole War.
James Gadsden  
St. Hilda led one of these institutions in Whitby. For 10 points each:
Name these institutions that Henry VIII dissolved after splitting from the Catholic church. Before that, they held monks and nuns.
An account of the life of Cuthburt was written in this monastery off the coast of Northumberland, the target of a horrific 793 Viking raid. A namesake illuminated manuscript gospel with a "Chi-Rho" monogram was written here.
This "venerable" saint spent most of his eighth-century life at a monastery in Monkwearmouth. He wrote an Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
monastery [accept abbey; accept convent; accept nunnery]
Lindisfarne
Bede [or Baeda]
This organization gained a royal charter in 1600, and it was given the authority to mint its own money and conduct its own foreign affairs by Charles II in the 1670s. For 10 points each:
Identify this powerful joint-stock trading company that eventually conquered most of the Indian subcontinent. It was nationalized by the British government in the aftermath of the 1857 Sepoy Mutiny.
This city was the center of the Company's Indian holdings and the capital of the British Raj until 1911. When the Nawab of Bengal captured this city in 1756, he placed British prisoners in the "Black Hole" of this city.
 This officer led Company troops at the 1757 Battle of Plassey, defeating the Nawab and recapturing Calcutta. In 1765, he secured a Mughal imperial edict that granted the lands of Bengal to the East India Company.
East India Company [or British East India Company; or BEIC]
Calcutta [or Kolkata]
 Robert Clive, 1st Baron Clive 
In Italy, this process was promoted by Victor Emmanuel II and Giuseppe Garibaldi's Expedition of the Thousand. For 10 points each:
 Name this result of nationalism. In Germany, it was accomplished by Otto von Bismarck.
This prime minister of Piedmont-Sardinia was one of the leading lights of the Risorgimento. He later became the first prime minister of unified Italy.
Italian unification might have gone too far. This movement more or less declared that any nearby place with a lot of Italians should be part of Italy, including Corsica, Nice, Savoy, Malta and big chunks of Slovenia and Croatia.
 unification [accept Risorgimento; accept any answer that involves making one country]
Camillo [Paolo Filippo Giulio] Benso, Count of Cavour [accept either underlined part]
 irredentism [accept any answer with irredenta, irredentist, or similar words in it] 
Answer some questions about the savings and loan crisis, for 10 points each.
The crisis came to a head under this Republican president, whose administration bailed out the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation two years before his successor, George H. W. Bush, abolished it altogether.
An investigation into influence-buying by S&amp;L entrepreneur Charles Keating ended up clearing both this senator and John McCain of ethics charges. This Ohio Democrat was one of the Mercury Seven, the first American astronauts.
The anti-inflationary policies of this Chairman of the Federal Reserve under Reagan and Carter contributed to the savings and loan crisis. A 2010 regulation against certain speculative investments is named for him.
Ronald [Wilson] Reagan
John [Herschel] Glenn, [Junior]
Paul [Adolph] Volcker, [Junior]
Several players for the Rams took flak for making the gesture associated with this phrase. For 10 points each:
Name this phrase derived from the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.
Brown's death catalyzed this protest movement and hashtag that seeks to draw attention to the police killings of African-American men such as Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and Akai Gurley.
Police anger at Bill DeBlasio provoked a group of police to turn their backs on him at a memorial service and to engage in a "slowdown" of arrests. Both of those actions were condemned by this Police Commissioner of NYC.
"Hands up, Don't Shoot!" [prompt on "Don't Shoot!"]
#BlackLivesMatter [the "#" is pronounced "hashtag"]
"Bill" Bratton [or William Joseph Bratton
This group participated in the Round Table Talks. For 10 points each:
Name this trade union formed at Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk in 1980. It opposed the Soviets and Communism and supported workers through social activism and civil resistance.
This electrician was a co-founder of the Solidarity Movement, winning the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts. He later became the first post-Communist president of his country.
Lech Walesa and Solidarity were from this Central European country. A bishop from its city of Krakow became Pope John Paul II.
Solidarity Movement [or Solidarnosc]
Lech Walesa
Republic of Poland [or Polska]
While under British control, this country experienced a violent struggle between Kikuyu rebels and the colonial government between 1952 and 1960. For 10 points each:
Identify this East African country, the site of the Mau Mau uprising. This country formally gained independence in 1963 and maintained its colonial capital, Nairobi.
This first president of Kenya had been held in prison during the uprising under suspicion of being a Mau Mau member.
This man succeeded Jomo Kenyatta as President of Kenya, serving from 1978 to 2002. Under his leadership, Kenya lost 10% of its GDP in the Goldenberg scandal.
Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya]
Jomo Kenyatta [or Kamau wa Ngengi]
Daniel arap Moi
Answer some questions about war in Ancient Greece, for 10 points each.
This nearly thirty-year-long war between Athens and Sparta was vividly recounted by Thucydides. The Athenian general Pericles died of plague early in this war.
One of the major phases of the Peloponnesian War was the disastrous Alcibiades-led Athenian expedition to take Syracuse, which is on this island.
At this 405 BC battle of the Peloponnesian War, the Athenian navy was destroyed by Lysander's Spartan fleet, cutting off all imports and communication.
the Peloponnesian War
Sicily
Battle of Aegospotami
Answer the following about turn of the century female journalists, for 10 points each:
Ida Tarbell wrote a scathing history of this man’s Standard Oil Company. This man’s ownership of Standard Oil made him the richest man in American history.
Another famous Ida was Ida B. Wells, best known for her exposes on this practice. This practice was the target of the Dyer Bill and the subject of the song “Strange Fruit.”
This journalist, who was not named Ida, pretended to be insane to write a exposé on mental asylums for Joseph Pulitzer’s New York World newspaper.
John Davison Rockefeller, Sr.
lynching (accept word forms; prompt on descriptions like “extrajudicial killings”)
Nellie Bly
Emmeline Pankhurst fought for this right in Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this right whose American proponents held the Seneca Falls convention. Meanwhile, New Zealand would give this right in 1893, making it the first in the world to do so.
Forces from New Zealand fought alongside those of Australia as part of the “Anzacs” during this disastrous 1916 British campaign in modern-day Turkey in World War I.
This man would lead the 19th Division of the Ottoman Fifth Army at Gallipoli, but he is perhaps better known as the founder of the Republic of Turkey, which he led as President from 1923 until his death in 1938.
woman’s suffrage (prompt on partial answer; accept “right to vote” in place of “suffrage”)
Gallipoli Campaign (accept clear-knowledge equivalents)
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk (accept either underlined part)
Fish out of water! Answer the following about Marco Polo, for 10 points each:
Marco Polo visited the court of this Yuan Dynasty emperor, who had two invasions of Japan turned back due to “divine winds.”
Marco Polo traveled along this route, which served as the major land conduit for trade between Asia and Europe. Major hubs along this route included Samarkand, in present-day Uzbekistan.
Marco Polo may have stayed in one of these buildings on the Silk Road. Known as khan in Mongolian, this is the name commonly given to inns situated along the Silk Road where travelers could rest.
Kublai Khan
Silk Road
caravanserai
The leader of this journey traveled under the pseudonymous surname Mikhailov. For 10 points each:
Name this trip, nominally undertaken to strengthen the Holy League against the Ottomans. It also gave the traveling party the opportunity to study Western European industry and shipyards.
The Grand Embassy was cut short by the rebellion of the streltsy against this tsar. His modernizations included the Table of Ranks, a tax on beards, and the founding of a namesake city on the River Neva.
Peter’s other diplomatic missions included one to this island. This island withstood an Ottoman siege while it was under the control of the Knights Hospitaller.
Grand Embassy
Peter the Great (accept Peter I; prompt on “Peter”)
Malta
Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down as a casualty of a conflict that began some months after the invasion of this region. For 10 points each:
Name this region. Armed “little green men” took over major government buildings in this region’s city of Simferopol in February 2015.
This current President of Russia directed the invasion of Crimea. His United Russia party has won recent elections by a landslide.
Putin’s latest military actions have been against ISIS in Syria, where this other port west of Homs serves as Russia’s main Mediterranean naval base.
Crimea
Vladimir Putin
Tartus
Name the following things related to war photography, for 10 points each:
This man produced a series of portraits known as The Gallery of Illustrious Americans. He is most famous for his many photographs of soldiers during the Civil War, for which he is arguably the father of photojournalism.
Joe Rosenthal won a Pulitzer for his photograph of American soldiers raising a flag on Mt. Suribachi during this World War II battle, though it was actually the second flag raised.
Robert Capa, his wife Gerda Taro, and David Seymour photographed this conflict. Capa’s photograph “Loyalist Militiaman at the Moment of Death” depicts the moment of a soldier falling after being shot in this conflict.
Mathew Brady
Battle of Iwo Jima
Spanish Civil War
The “big knot” was the last component of the eight-legged essay, a crucial part of this system. For 10 points each:
Name this system which required knowledge of Confucian texts like the Four Books and Five Classics. It was the most important tool for selecting government officials in imperial China.
Civil service examinations began during this dynasty, which gives its name to the majority ethnic group in China today.
Zhang Xiu [“jahng shiu”] led this group in rebelling against the Han dynasty in 184. It was named for the entrance fee members had to pay to join.
imperial civil service examinations (accept keju; accept anything about people having to take tests)
Han dynasty (accept Hanchao)
Way of the Five Pecks of Rice (or Way of the Celestial Master; accept Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion; accept Wudoumi dao)
Is this heaven? No, it’s Iowa. While you’re here, though, answer the following about the history of the Hawkeye State, for 10 points each:
The territory of Iowa was involved in a border dispute known as the Honey War with this other state. A compromise named for this state restricted slavery in new territories to those south of this state’s southern border.
This Sauk chief participated in the siege of Fort Madison, Iowa during the War of 1812, and named a brief war that Abraham Lincoln participated in. Some helicopters with the same name were shot down many years later at the Battle of Mogadishu.
This scientist was born in Cresco, Iowa. He developed high-yield strains of wheat, saving millions from starvation and kickstarting the “Green Revolution.”
Missouri (accept Missouri Compromise)
Black Hawk (accept Ma-ka-tai-me-she-kia-kiak; accept Black Hawk’s War)
Norman (Ernest) Borlaug
Let’s all hold hands and answer the following questions about human chains, for 10 points each:
In 1989, a human chain named for this geographical feature was formed to protest Soviet rule. The first three countries to declare independence from the USSR all border this body of water.
The Guinness world record for longest human chain was set in this country. It broke away from Pakistan in 1971 to form a new country with capital at Dhaka.
On this island, British colonists tried to corral natives using a giant island-wide human chain, but only were able to capture two people. That failed campaign was part of the Black War on this island.
Baltic Sea (accept Baltic Way; accept Baltic Chain of Freedom)
People’s Republic of Bangladesh (accept Gônôprôjatôntri Bangladesh)
Tasmania (do not accept or prompt on “Australia”)
One predecessor to this policy was the Asiatic Land Tenure Bill, passed during the government of Jan Smuts. For 10 points each:
Name this policy. It was ended by F.W. de Klerk, and one opponent of it underwent the Rivonia Trial.
One protest against apartheid was the Soweto uprising, in which hundreds of high schoolers protested the usage of this language as the medium of instruction in schools. “Apartheid” itself is a word in this language descended from Dutch.
The Soweto Uprising was partially organized by the Black Consciousness Movement, which was founded by this coiner of the phrase “Black is beautiful.” He died after being tortured in police custody in 1977.
apartheid
Afrikaans
Stephen Bantu “Steve” Biko
Answer the following about the longstanding enmity between Andrew Jackson and Native Americans, for 10 points each:
Jackson won the Battle of Horseshoe Bend against a group of warriors from this Native American tribe while fighting in their namesake war. This tribe was also nicknamed the “Red Sticks” due to the color of their war clubs.
Jackson would later fight in the first of three wars named after this Florida-based Native American tribe. During the second of those wars, this tribe was led by Osceola.
As president, Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act, which eventually led to this sadly-named forced removal of Cherokees and other Indians to Oklahoma.
Creek (or Muscogee)
Seminole (accept Seminole Wars)
Trail of Tears
The Earl of Warwick became known as the “Kingmaker” during this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this English conflict between the houses of York and Lancaster that was eventually won by Henry Tudor. A white one of the title items represented York, and a red one for Lancaster.
York and Lancaster were both sub-houses of this larger house. This house of England descended from the Angevin kings.
At the Battle of Bosworth Field, forces of this family decisively switched sides from the Yorks to the Tudors. Richard III threatened to execute a son of Thomas of this family if Thomas’s forces didn’t aid Richard, to which Thomas replied that he had other sons.
Wars of the Roses
Plantagenet
Stanley
During this campaign, a lunar eclipse spooked Nicias, causing him to delay retreat for almost a month with disastrous results. For 10 points each:
Name this military campaign launched in order to aid the city of Segesta. Its commander, Alcibiades, was recalled to stand trial before his forces even reached the target destination.
The Sicilian Expedition was part of this larger conflict. Pericles gave the Funeral Oration during this war, and Thucydides’s most notable work was a history of it.
This city and its Delian League were defeated by Sparta and its Peloponnesian League during the Peloponnesian War.
Sicilian Expedition (accept any answers implying the traveling of forces to Sicily)
Second Peloponnesian War
Athens
The 2015 United Kingdom general election saw this man lead the Conservative Party to a decisive victory over Ed Miliband’s Labour Party. For ten points each:
Name this current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, who has held the post since 2010. He currently represents the safe seat of Witney in the House of Commons.
This regionalist party won 50 seats in the 2015 election under the leadership of Nicola Sturgeon. One of its MPs, Mhairi [“Mary”] Black, won her election while still a student at the University of Glasgow.
One of the 43 Labour MPs who lost their seats was Ed Balls, who shadowed this cabinet position. This position controls Her Majesty’s Treasury and is the second most powerful office in the United Kingdom.
David (William Donald) Cameron
Scottish National Party (or SNP; prompt on partial answer)
Chancellor of the Exchequer (do not accept “Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer”)
This policy will officially end once the National People’s Congress takes place in March 2016. For 10 points each:
Name this policy that has led to a spike in the number of young girls in orphanages, since most families affected by this policy culturally prefer boys.
The one-child policy was formerly a policy of this nation. In 2015, the leader of this country met with the leader of Taiwan for the first time since 1949.
The Chinese government abandoned this economic policy in 2005. It contributed in part to the massive trade deficit of the U.S. with China, and its legacy remains in the “managed float” of the renminbi.
one-child policy (accept family planning)
People’s Republic of China (or PRC; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China,” as that is Taiwan)
pegging the exchange rate with the dollar (or currency pegging; accept fixing the exchange rate with the dollar and equivalents; prompt on answers just mentioning “currency” or “exchange rate” that are not more descriptive)
After the President, the holder of this office is the second-highest paid government official. For 10 points each:
Name this office, currently held by Megan Brennan and traditionally given to one of the President’s closest advisers. Though formerly a cabinet position, in 1971 this office was spun off along with its respective department into the USPS.
This Founding Father, who wrote under the pseudonym Silence Dogood and penned Poor Richard’s Almanac, was the first Postmaster General of the United States.
At the beginning of the Civil War, the office of Postmaster General was held by a member of this influential political family. Another member of this family names the presidential guesthouse where Harry Truman was staying when he survived an assassination attempt by two Puerto Rican nationalists.
United States Postmaster General
Benjamin Franklin
Blair family (accept Montgomery Blair; accept Francis Preston Blair; accept Blair House)
The June Days occurred during this year. For 10 points each:
Name this year, in which Louis Philippe abdicated as King of France. This 19th century year is famous for the numerous political revolutions that occurred across Europe.
Pius IX refused to support the unification of this country, leading to the petering out of the 1848 revolutions there. It was eventually unified by Giuseppe Garibaldi.
As regent-president, this man led the short-lived republic formed during the Hungarian revolution of 1848. After his exile, he went on numerous speaking tours in the UK and US advocating Hungarian independence.
1848 (prompt on “48”)
Kingdom of Italy (accept Regno d’Italia)
Lajos Kossuth de Udvard et Kossuthfalva
This group derived its name from a mythical bogeyman who would stuff children into a sack and eat them. For 10 points each:
Name this secret police force. During the 1960s it was headed by Luckner Cambronne, whose selling of dead bodies to U.S. medical schools earned him the nickname “The Vampire of the Caribbean.”
The Tonton Macoute terrorized enemies of François “Papa Doc” Duvalier, who ruled this poorest country in the Western Hemisphere from its capital at Port-au-Prince.
Papa Doc’s son, Jean-Claude “Baby Doc” Duvalier, fled Haiti with the help of the administration of this American president, whose other shenanigans in the Caribbean included invading Grenada in Operation Urgent Fury.
Tonton Macoute [“ton-ton mah-COOT”] (or Milice de Volontaires de la Securite Nationale)
Republic of Haiti [accept Republique d’Haiti; accept Repiblik Ayiti]
Ronald (Wilson) Reagan
The sixteenth of these described American industry as an “arsenal of democracy” for the world. For 10 points each:
Name this series of addresses with such titles as “On the Recession” and “Report on the Home Front.”
The fireside chats were delivered by this Democratic president and architect of the New Deal. He succeeded Herbert Hoover and won an unprecedented fourth term of office in 1944.
FDR’s ninth fireside chat dealt with this initiative, which resulted from Black Monday and ultimately led to the end of the Lochner era.
fireside chats
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (accept FDR; prompt on “Roosevelt”)
court-packing plan (accept Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937)
The largest ancient sculpture ever found was unearthed in one of these structures. For 10 points each:
The Farnese Bull was discovered in one example of these buildings named for Caracalla. The caldarium was a room in this building, while the hypocausta were located beneath them.
Bathhouses are among the best-preserved ruins of this town in southern Italy, which was destroyed along with Herculaneum and Stabiae in the 79 AD eruption of Mount Vesuvius.
The largest imperial baths in Rome were built in 306 AD and named for this emperor. He established the tetrarchy and he razed the church at Nicomedia as part of his extensive persecution of Christians.
Roman baths (or thermae)
Pompeii
Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus Augustus
Answer the following about the conflict between the Guelphs and the Ghibellines, for 10 points each:
Unlike the Guelphs, who supported the Pope, the Ghibellines supported the holder of this office. Charlemagne was named the first holder of this office by Leo III.
The terms Guelphs and Ghibellines arose during the rule of this Holy Roman Emperor. Named for his fiery facial hair, this ruler shares his name with the Nazi codeword for the invasion of the Soviet Union.
The tension between the Guelphs and the Ghibellines was an offshoot of this medieval conflict between church and state. It centered over who had the power to appoint local bishops and other religious officials.
Holy Roman Emperor (prompt on just “emperor”)
Frederick I (or Frederick Barbarossa; prompt on just “Frederick”)
Investiture Controversy (accept synonyms for “controversy”)
This hashtag first went viral on Twitter after the trial of George Zimmerman resulted in his acquittal. For 10 points each:
Name this nationwide movement established to protest police violence against African Americans. In response, some people replaced a key word with “all” instead.
The Black Lives Matter movement returned to the national stage amid protests that took place in this city following the shooting of Michael Brown by police officer Darren Wilson.
The broader criminal justice reform movement has sought to aid the reintegration of released convicts into society by pushing employers to adopt this hiring policy. Obama introduced it by executive order for federal employees.
#blacklivesmatter
Ferguson, Missouri
ban the box
This city’s namesake Second Defenestration saw several Catholic officials thrown out of the window of its namesake Castle. For 10 points each:
Name this city, whose “Spring” in 1968 saw its country attempt to liberalize, but was met with a Warsaw Pact invasion.
This Slovak politician led Czechoslovakia during the attempted liberalizations of the Prague Spring.
The first Defenestration of Prague occurred when followers of this theologian killed seven members of Prague’s City Council. This Bohemian theologian was burned at the stake in 1415 after the Council of Constance.
Prague (or Praha)
Alexander Dubček [“DOOB-check”]
Jan Hus
After his mother Nandi died, Shaka ordered that cows in this kingdom be slaughtered so their calves would understand the feeling of losing a mother. For 10 points each:
Name this African kingdom. A violent period known as mfecane, or “the crushing,” coincided with their rise under the leadership of Shaka.
One important reform carried out by Shaka was the replacement of the assegai with the iklwa. Both were examples of this type of object commonly used by Zulu warriors.
This later king and half-nephew of Shaka led the Zulus in their war against the British Empire, which included a major victory at the Battle of Isandlwana.
Zulu Kingdom (accept Zulu Empire or Zululand)
spear (accept equivalents like javelin or polearm)
Cetshwayo kaMpande (accept close-sounding equivalents like Cetawayo, Cetewayo, Cetywajo, Ketchwayo, etc.)
This event ended at Camp O’Donnell. For 10 points each:
Name this event, in which Japanese troops led by Masaharu Homma forcibly marched prisoners of war across the island of Luzon. Homma was later executed for his role in this event.
The Bataan Death March occurred in this present-day country. Douglas MacArthur vowed “I shall return” after fleeing this Asian island country.
MacArthur’s reinvasion of the island prompted the Battle of Leyte Gulf, which featured a cameo appearance by this Japanese battleship that had earlier appeared at the Battle of Midway. Along with its sister ship the Musashi, this ship was the largest battleship ever constructed.
Bataan Death March (prompt on partial answer)
Republic of the Philippines
Yamato
This man led one of the first modern political campaigns with the Midlothian campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this Liberal prime minister. He held the most Prime Minister-ships ever, and he frequently feuded with Disraeli.
Unlike his rival Disraeli, Gladstone was often on rocky relations with this monarch. This queen called Gladstone’s government “The worst I ever had.”
Victoria blamed Gladstone for the death of this man, who was killed by forces under the Mahdi. This man earned his nickname while leading the Ever Victorious Army.
William (Ewart) Gladstone
Queen Victoria
“Chinese” Gordon (accept Charles George Gordon)
Joseph Glidden is usually credited with inventing this object, the first prototype of which he constructed using a coffee mill. For 10 points each:
Name this material first used by ranchers in the American West to enclose their lands. Its invention led to the end of “open range” ranching.
Before the invention of barbed wire, cattle rustling was a common practice, leading to conflicts like this feud in eastern Texas. Its two namesake groups included a vigilante militia organized to control rustling and a group that sprung up to oppose the militiamen.
This first President of Texas and fighter in the Texas Revolution mediated a truce to end the Regulator-Moderator War. Francis Scott Key defended this man after he beat William Stanberry up with a cane.
barbed wire (accept barb wire; accept bob wire; accept bobbed wire; prompt on “wire” alone)
Regulator-Moderator War (or the Shelby County War; prompt on partial answer)
Samuel “Sam” Houston
One of the boundaries this event created is known as the Radcliffe Line. For 10 points each:
Name this event, which divided a former British colony into two distinct Hindu and Muslim-majority countries.
This man was a strong proponent of the partition. He served as leader of the Muslim League prior to the partition, and then as Pakistan’s first governor-general afterward.
The Hindu Maharajah of this region decided to join India rather than Pakistan, a move Pakistan rejected as invalid. India and Pakistan have fought three wars over this mountainous region.
partition of India (accept descriptions like the “splitting of India into India and Pakistan” as long as India or Pakistan is mentioned)
Muhammad Ali Jinnah
Kashmir
Wat Tyler led a revolt of these people during the Hundred Years’ War. For 10 points each:
Name this generic term for the poor class of people who were often farmers or laborers. They were disproportionately affected by the Black Death.
Peasants and serfs made up a large part of Pugachev’s Rebellion during the reign of this empress. Grigory Potemkin supposedly built fake villages to impress this monarch.
Peasant anger also inspired this other revolt in France during the Hundred Years’ War. This revolt took its name from the padded armor the peasants wore.
peasants
Catherine the Great (or Catherine II; prompt on “Catherine”)
Jacquerie
After being insulted during a boat party, this man’s mistress Eliza Lynch threw all the food for the party overboard and ordered the captain to stop the boat in the middle of a jungle. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator of Paraguay, who declared war on Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay simultaneously, leading to the War of the Triple Alliance.
One of López’ saner endeavors was installing the first example of this device in South America. Samuel Morse famously sent the message “What hath God wrought” while demonstrating this machine.
During the Battle of Acosta Ñu, López used an army made up of these kind of people to delay the Allied army while he escaped. A “crusade” of these people led by Stephen of Cloyes ended up with most of them being sold into slavery.
Francisco Solano López (Carrillo)
telegraph (reluctantly accept telegram, which isn’t the machine but the message it sends)
children (accept niños, niñas, boys, girls, kids, youth, wee little ‘uns, and other equivalents)
The night before this event began, the <em>Santisima Ferdinand</em> covertly landed at Mullet Creek. For 10 points each:
Name this brief 1982 war fought over the namesake British archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean. Military engagements during this war include the Battle of Goose Green and the sinking of the General Belgrano cruiser.
This country invaded and briefly occupied the Falkland Islands before General Mario Menéndez surrendered at Port Stanley. It continues to dispute sovereignty of the Falklands with Britain today.
The sinking of the General Belgrano led to this memorable headline on the front page of the British tabloid The Sun. It was later changed after the number of Argentine casualties became known.
Falklands War (or Falkland Islands War; accept South Atlantic War)
Argentina (or the Argentine Republic; or República Argentina)
“Gotcha!”
When you play the game of quizbowl, you win or you die. There is no middle ground. For 10 points each:
First, name this title and social class from the Middle Ages. Persons with this title often obeyed a code chivalry, and they descended from the equestrian class of Rome.
Feudalism often employed a practice of inheritance known by this term. In the system described by this term, the oldest male inherits the estate.
Knights who were granted land owed the king military service, but they could instead pay this fee. In time, this fee generally became used primarily as a tax.
knights
primogeniture
scutage
Name some things related to the campaigns of civil rights movement, for 10 points each:
After Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on a bus in this city, activists boycotted buses in this city for a full year.
The Council of Federated Organizations launched this initiative to increase voter registration as much as possible in Mississippi over the course of the namesake season.
This campaign was organized by Martin Luther King Jr. and the SCLC to reduce economic inequality, and it was carried out by Ralph Abernathy in the wake of MLK’s assassination. A shantytown named “Resurrection City” was built during this campaign.
Montgomery
Freedom Summer (accept Mississippi Summer Project)
Poor People’s Campaign
A conflict in this country’s capital was dramatized in a film by Gillo Pontecorvo. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Its independence led to widespread reprisals against loyalists called harkis, as well as a mass exodus of Europeans nicknamed “black feet.”
The turmoil caused by the Algerian War of Independence led this man to return to power in France. He had earlier led the Free French resistance against the Nazi-backed Vichy government.
de Gaulle’s return to power during the Algerian crisis was opposed by this man. Later, he would abolish capital punishment as the first Socialist President of France.
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria (accept République algérienne démocratique et populaire)
Charles (André Joseph Marie) de Gaulle
François (Maurice Adrien Marie) Mitterrand
This region was ceded from one country to another after an initiative known as the Green March. For 10 points each:
Name this region. It is currently involved in a push for independence led by a group known as the Polisario Front.
Control of Western Sahara was transferred to Mauritania and this other country in the Madrid Accords. It was led for much of the second half of the 20th century by Hassan II, who ruled from its capital of Rabat.
The Sahrawi movement for independence is often referred to as an intifada, a term also used to describe two uprisings involving the Palestinian Liberation Organization. The PLO was led by this man from 1969 until his death in 2004.
Western Sahara (prompt on partial)
Kingdom of Morocco (accept al-Mamlakah al-Maghribiyah)
Yasser Arafat
One member of this family was the first person in history to resign the office of cardinal. For 10 points each:
Name this family, whose other religiously influential members included Pope Alexander VI. This family’s name has become a byword for scandalous behavior thanks to incestuous and criminal members like Cesare and Lucrezia.
One of Cesare Borgia’s most infamous acts was this debauched party. Cesare invited fifty prostitutes to this event, which was named for the items strewn on the ground for the courtesans to pick up.
Alexander VI’s successor as pope, Pius III, died a month into the job and was replaced by this man, an avowed enemy of the Borgias. This “Warrior Pope” commissioned Michelangelo’s frescos on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.
Borgia family
Banquet of the Chestnuts (or Ballet of the Chestnuts)
Julius II (or Giuliano della Rovere; prompt on just “Julius”)
This document first appeared in print in the book <em>Mourt’s Relation</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this document, which may have been drafted after its writers ran out of beer. This document calls for the creation of a “civil body politic.”
This signer of the Mayflower Compact served as commander of the Plymouth militia, where he led attacks against the Nemasket and Wessagusset Native Americans.
Mourt’s Relation also includes an account of the first celebration of this holiday at Plymouth. Abraham Lincoln made this fall celebration a national holiday in 1863.
Mayflower Compact
Myles Standish
Thanksgiving
A period of secularization in this region was known as the Quiet Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this region. The kidnapping of James Cross and Pierre Laporte by the FLQ led to the October Crisis in this region.
The failed Meech Lake Accord, which sought to increase Quebec’s provincial powers, was proposed by this Canadian prime minister of the late 1980s. He was succeeded by the first female PM, Kim Campbell.
While in office, Mulroney signed the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement. That document was superseded in 1994 by the passage of this legislation, which included Mexico in the agreement as well.
Quebec
Martin Brian Mulroney
North American Free Trade Agreement
Joseph Rayner Stephens said that this movement was a “knife and fork, a cheese and bread” question. For 10 points each:
Name this mid-19th century political movement in Britain whose namesake document included universal suffrage and payment for members of Parliament.
Chartists pushed for universal suffrage for those over this age. This was the voting age in most of the United States until the passage of the 26th Amendment.
Another Chartist demand was the secret ballot, which is alternatively named for this country. The so-called “First Fleet” transported the initial settlers of this country.
Chartism (accept word forms)
21
Commonwealth of Australia
A manmade hill named the Lion’s Mound commemorates the location of this battle, which was preceded two days earlier by the Battle of Quatre Bras. For 10 points each:
Name this battle that ended the Hundred Days. Gebhard von Blüchard’s timely arrival at this battle helped determine its outcome.
Waterloo was the decisive defeat for this French general, who was promptly exiled to St. Helena.
This other Napoleonic battle occurred on the same day as the Battle of Auerstedt. Napoleon destroyed a Prussian army led by Charles William Ferdinand, resulting in the French subjugation of Prussia.
Battle of Waterloo
Napoleon I Bonaparte (accept either or both underline parts)
Battle of Jena
After his time in office, this man chaired a commission that investigated different standards of living between the northern and southern portions of the world. For 10 points each:
Name this statesman. He resigned after his secretary Günter Guillaume was revealed to be a spy.
While governing this European nation, Brandt carried out the policy of Ostpolitik, which normalized relations with its neighbor. Operation Vittles was part of an “airlift” to this nation.
West Germany was finally reunited with East Germany after the fall of this structure. Checkpoint Charlie was part of this structure.
Willy Brandt (or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm)
West Germany (or Federal Republic of Germany; or FRG; accept Bundesrepublik Deutschland; prompt on “Germany” or “Deutschland;” do not accept or prompt on “East Germany” or “German Democratic Republic”)
Berlin Wall
Name the following related to everybody’s favorite Supreme Court Justice, Potter Stewart, for 10 points each:
Stewart wrote a concurrence in Loving v. Virginia, which ruled that anti-miscegenation laws outlawing this practice were unconstitutional.
In his opinion in Jacobellis v. Ohio, Stewart stated all obscenity was protected except “hard-core pornography,” which he famously defined with this seven-word phrase.
Stewart retired in 1981 and was replaced by this Stanford graduate, the first woman to serve on the Supreme Court.
interracial marriage (accept equivalents)
“I know it when I see it” (accept exact phrase only)
Sandra Day O’Connor
The Younger Memnon was one of the gigantic stone heads found at this ruler’s funeral temple. For 10 points each:
Name this “Great” pharaoh from the New Kingdom of Egypt. He was known as Ozymandias in Greek, and his queen was Nefertari.
Ramses signed what is the oldest extant treaty with Hattusili III, the king of these peoples. Ramses had earlier fought the Battle of Kadesh with these peoples.
Ramses succeeded his father, who was known by this name. Ramses was inspired to recapture Kadesh after his father of this name had earlier captured it when Ramses was a child.
Ramesses the Great (accept Ramesses II; accept Ramses in place of Ramesses)
Hittites (accept Hitttie Empire)
Seti I (or Sethos I)
Name these thorns in the late Roman Republic and early Roman Empire’s side, for 10 points each:
This barbarian tribe was united by Vercingetorix against “pacified” by Julius Caesar.
This Queen of the Iceni waged war against governor Gaius Suetonius Paulinus after Rome annexed her kingdom in present day Wales.
Boudicca’s rebellion occurred during the reign of this Roman emperor. This man is better known for apocryphally fiddling while Rome burned and was later assassinated by the Praetorian Guard.
Gauls
Boudicca
Nero
Answer the following about the 1948 election, for 10 points each:
The Chicago Daily Tribune erroneously printed a headline claiming that Thomas Dewey had defeated this man, who became president after the death of FDR.
Dewey defeated an Ohio senator with this surname for the Republican nomination. That man with this surname sponsored an anti-union bill with Fred Hartley.
Strom Thurmond won four states running on the platform of this party, nicknamed for its southern origin. This party supported a bunch of segregationist policies.
Harry S. Truman
Robert Alphonso Taft (do not accept “William Howard Taft”)
Dixiecrats (or States’ Rights Democratic Party)
Name these things related to food, and how angry people get when they don’t have it, for 10 points each:
Though this woman never actually declared “Let them eat cake!” in response to French bread shortages, that didn’t stop the angry peasantry from executing her during the French Revolution.
A series of riots over this food occurred in Russia in the mid-1800s. A shortage of this food elsewhere caused by a namesake “blight” led Robert Peel to repeal the Corn Laws.
Serious bread riots occurred in Egypt during the presidency of this man. He won the Nobel Peace Prize with Menachem Begin despite earlier leading the Yom Kippur War.
Marie Antoinette (or Maria Antonia Josepha Johana)
potatoes (accept Irish Potato Famine)
Muhammad Anwar El Sadat
You are a landowner in 11th-century England. Answer some questions about what could happen to your property, for 10 points each:
Your possessions were probably recorded in the Domesday Book compiled by this ruler. This king gained power after defeating Harold Godwinson in 1066.
If you supported William’s conquest, you might be rewarded with one of these land grants given to a vassal in exchange for service. These plots of land were the central blocks of feudalism.
If you owned land in places like Northumbria and Yorkshire, however, you probably would have had a pretty bad time during this campaign led by William to stamp out rebels.
William I (accept William the Conqueror; accept William the Bastard; prompt on “William”)
fiefs or fiefdoms
Harrying of the North
After his death at the Battle of Nancy, this ruler’s body was not found for another three days. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, the son of Philip the Good. His territorial ambitions led him to organize the League of the Public Weal against the “Spider King,” Louis XI.
Charles the Bold was the last great duke of this polity. It shares its name with a modern-day region in the northeast of France famous for its wine production.
After Charles’ death, Burgundy was split between France and the Netherlands, which were then ruled by this royal family. The death of Charles II, a member of this Austrian-based family, led to the War of the Spanish Succession.
Charles the Bold (accept Charles le Téméraire; accept Karel de Stoute; prompt on just “Charles”)
Duchy of Burgundy (accept Duché de Burgogne)
Hapsburg Empire (or Habsburg Empire)
One of the primary belligerents in this nation’s war for independence was the secret organization Filiki Eteria. For 10 points each:
Name this nation whose 1821 war for independence was led by Alexander Ypsilantis [“IP-silantis”] and was supported by Russia, Great Britain, and France.
Greece sought independence from this Turkish empire. Following Greece’s independence and other subsequent territorial losses, this empire was called the “sick man of Europe.”
After receiving independence, Otto I from this royal family was named King of Greece. Other members of this royal family include Maximillian II, king of Bavaria, and Ludwig II, the Fairy Tale King.
Greece
Ottoman Empire
Wittelsbach
Part of this event included building a “Democracy Wall” where people could post criticisms of the government. For 10 points each:
Name this period of political liberalization in 1956 in which the title objects were allowed to “bloom.” It turned out to be a great way to expose dissidents, who were targeted in the crackdowns following this campaign.
This initiative, begun shortly after the Hundred Flowers Campaign, hoped to industrialize the country through such measures as backyard furnaces. Instead, it led to the largest famine in human history.
The Hundred Flowers Campaign and the Great Leap Forward occurred during the rule of this Chinese Communist leader.
Hundred Flowers Campaign (accept baihua yundong)
Great Leap Forward (accept da yue jin)
Mao Zedong (accept Mao Tse-tung; accept Chairman Mao)
As commander of Fort de Buade, this man was criticized for importing brandy to sell to local Native Americans. For 10 points each:
Name this explorer and governor of the Louisiana territory. He established a fort named for the comte de Pontchartrain and the French word for “strait.”
Cadillac founded Fort Pontchartrain, which would eventually become this largest city in Michigan and home to many automobile manufacturers.
Detroit was unsuccessfully besieged during this conflict. This war’s namesake was an Ottawa tribe chieftain, and the British general Jeffrey Amherst villainously gave smallpox-infected blankets away during it .
Antoine Laumet de la Mothe, sieur de Cadillac (accept either or both underlined parts)
Detroit
Pontiac’s War/Rebellion/Conspiracy (accept anything with Pontiac, basically)
Early on in his life, this man was commended for his bravery during the Battle of Madras. For 10 points each:
Name this British army officer who captured Chandernagore and the French capital of Pondicherry in the Carnatic Wars. This man had the epithet of India appended to his name for his service.
Robert Clive’s victories in the Carnatic Wars paved the way for this British company to establish hegemony in the Indies, beating out similarly named Dutch and French competitors.
After capturing Fort William in Calcutta, Clive and his forces discovered this event in which 146 British prisoners of war were crammed into a 14 by 18 foot dungeon.
Robert Clive
British East India Company
The Black Hole of Calcutta
Answer the following about people messing with calendars, for 10 points each:
A pope of this name reformed the Julian calendar in the papal bull Inter gravissimas. That calendar is still used across the world today.
This was the eleventh month of the French Republican calendar. It ran from mid-July to mid-August and also names a “reaction” that deposed Maximilien Robespierre.
As president of this country, Sarparmurat Niyazov renamed April “Gurbansoltan” after his mother. Even more hilariously, bread was also renamed Gurbansoltan during Niyazov’s rule in this country.
Gregory (accept Gregory XIII; accept Gregorian calendar)
Thermidor (accept Thermidorian Reaction)
Turkmenistan
In some ancient cultures, desperate times called for desperate measures. For 10 points each:
This Mesoamerican culture performed a sacrifice at the peak of the New Fire ceremony, which was carried out every year to prevent the end of the world. They were later conquered by Hernan Cortez and his conquistadors.
Julius Caesar claimed that these Celtic people would fill gigantic wicker men with people and then burn them alive. These Celts were typically religious leaders, though they could hold other educated roles.
Recent evidence has increased support that Carthaginians performed child sacrifice, often burying them in these locations. The word for these locations comes from a Biblical location where Canaanites burned children alive.
Aztec (accept additional words like “empire” and “people”)
Druids
tophets
This battle was preceded by eleven earlier battles, all near the same northern Italian river. For 10 points each:
Name this battle, also known as the Twelfth Battle of the Isonzo. Luigi Cadorna was replaced as chief of staff after this disastrous defeat for the Italians.
Caporetto was a major victory for the Central Powers during this war, which started with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.
German victory at Caporetto was partially due to the use of these soldiers. These units used “infiltration tactics” to overwhelm enemy trenches, and their name in German roughly translates as “shock troops.”
Battle of Caporetto (accept Battle of Kobarid; accept Battle of Karfreit)
World War I (accept equivalents; accept Great War)
stormtroopers (accept Sturmtruppen; accept Stosstruppe; prompt on synonyms of “shock troops” like “assault troops”)
This man is memorialized in a bronze statue with a sign reading “come and take.” For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name this king who led a relatively tiny army against Xerxes I’s Persian army in the Battle of Thermopylae.
There were famously this many Spartans at Thermopylae. The sparsity of Spartans was caused by the ongoing religious festival of Carneia,though Leonidas did have various soldiers from other Greek cities.
Simultaneous with Leonidas’s battle on land, Themistocles was fighting this Queen of Halicarnassus and Naval Commander for Xerxes. This woman also led ships at the Battle of Salamis.
LeonidasI
300
ArtemisiaIof Caria
One document discussing this action defended a certain practice as “the greatest material interest of the world.” For 10 points each:
Name this action. The sale of government bonds after one instance of this action eventually resulted in the Supreme Court case Texas v. White,which declared this action unconstitutional.
South Carolina’s secession was soon followed by the bombardment of this fort in Charleston Bay, thus commencing hostilities between the North and the South.
This state’s ordinance of secession was signed by Confederate vice president Alexander Stephens. After the war, a gigantic relief depicting leaders of the Confederacy was created at Stone Mountain in this state.
secession(accept word forms; accept equivalents like leaving the Union;the practice mentioned in the lead­in is slavery)
Fort Sumter
Georgia
This military ruler was forced to commit suicide during the Honnō­ji Incident. For 10 points each: <ol start="10" type="1">
Name this Japanese ruler. He is considered the first of the three great unifiers of Japan, in turn followed by Toyetomi Hideyoshi and Tokugawa Ieyasu.
In 1573, Oda captured Tokyo and deposed the last member of the Ashikaga family to hold this title. Three decades later, this military title would be bestowed upon Tokugawa Ieyasu, effectively making him ruler of Japan.
Tokugawa crushed the Western army of Ishida Mitsunari in this decisive 1600 battle, which is widely considered to mark the beginning of Tokugawa’s rule over all of Japan.
OdaNobunaga (accept names in either order; prompt on “Nobunaga”)
shogun
Battle of Sekigahara
As secretary to Cardinal Mazarin, this man accused Nicolas Fouquet of embezzling funds that had in fact been appropriated by the Cardinal himself. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th­century French finance minister. He promoted a heavily mercantilist policy, including the founding of the French East India Company.
Colbert was finance minister under this “Sun King,” who famously stated, “I am the state.”
Colbert established a government factory to produce these objects. A hall named for these objects is the largest room at the Palace of Versailles.
Jean­Baptiste Colbert[“col­BARE”]
Louis XIV(accept Louis the Great;accept Louis le Grand;prompt on “Louis”)
mirrors(accept miroirs;accept glaces;accept Hall of Mirrors)
This man banished all Jews from England in the 1290 Edict of Expulsion. For 10 points each:
Name this English king, whose nickname refers to his above average height. Before he acceded to the throne, he defeated an alliance of barons who revolted against his father, Henry III.
The alliance of barons were led by this man, who briefly became ruler of England. Roger Mortimer gave this man’s severed head as a gift to his wife after he was killed at the Battle of Evesham.
Edward’s reign saw the conquest of this region led by Llywelyn ap Gruffudd [“luh-well-in ap griff-ith”]. Afterwards, Edward granted his son the title “Prince of” this country, which has since become associated with the heir apparent to the British throne.
Edward I (accept Edward Longshanks; prompt on “Edward”)
Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester (accept either underline part)
Wales (accept Cymru)
Answer the following about captive hippopotami in history, for 10 points each:
After this man’s death, several hippos escaped into the wild from his personal zoo and now roam the countryside. This Colombian drug lord was opposed by a group known as Los Pepes.
Floods in June 2015 in the capital of this country led to the escape of several zoo animals, including a hippo that was eventually led to safety by rescuers. Mikhail Saakashvili took power in this country after the Rose Revolution.
During this war, besieged Parisians took to eating zoo animals, although the asking price for hippo meat was too high for anyone to afford. This war ended with the capture of Napoleon III at Sedan by a side that consisted of a collection of German states.
Pablo Escobar
Georgia (or Sakartvelo; the city is Tbilisi, Georgia)
Franco-Prussian War
Name these things related to ancient writing systems, for 10 points each:
Along with Demotic and Greek, hieroglyphs appear on this item crucial to the translation of ancient Egyptian. It was discovered by a Napoleonic soldier in 1799.
Cuneiform was the primary writing system of this empire that co-existed with Elam and reached its greatest height under Sargon the Great.
The discovery of a 2015 tomb in Pylos revealed several tablets using this writing system. Major discoveries of artifacts using this script occurred at Pylos and Knossos, and it descended from a similarly named script that was used by the Minoans.
Rosetta Stone
Akkad (or Akkadian Empire)
Linear B (do not accept or prompt on “Linear A”)
One commander during this battle relied on the reinforcements of Joseph Tarchaneiotes, who for reasons unknown never showed up to the battlefield. For 10 points each:
Name this disastrous Byzantine defeat. The Varangian Guard was almost entirely wiped out at this battle by the forces of Alp Arslan.
Manzikert represented a decisive victory for the Seljuk branch of these peoples, who settled the Anatolian peninsula after migrating from Central Asia.
This Byzantine emperor was captured during the Battle of Manzikert. He was ransomed and returned home only to find that he had been deposed by the Doukas family, after which he was blinded and sent to a monastery.
Battle of Manzikert
Turks (accept word forms)
Romanos IV Diogenes (prompt on just “Romanos”)
The text of this speech references a woman who was verbally abused after refusing to allow two black men to use her telephone to call their boss. For 10 points each:
Name this virulently anti-immigration address, delivered in 1968 by Enoch Powell. As a result of this speech, Powell would lose his position as Shadow Secretary of State for Defence.
The “Rivers of Blood” speech received widespread support from Britons, helping this party pull off a surprise victory in the 1970 general election. Subsequent Cabinet members from this party included Margaret Thatcher.
After delivering the “Rivers of Blood” speech, Enoch Powell went on to oppose reform of this legislative chamber. Members of this body can be either “Temporal” or “Spiritual,” and life peers are automatically entitled to a seat in it.
“Rivers of Blood”
Conservative and Unionist Party (or Tory)
House of Lords
This leader promoted the slogan “Enrich the country, strengthen the military.” For 10 points each:
Name this Asian monarch who issued the Charter Oath during his namesake “Restoration,” which involved the rapid modernization of his country.
Meiji restored the power of this position by defeating the Tokugawa shogunate in the Boshin War. Hirohito held this position during World War II.
This later rebellion against Emperor Meiji was started by Saigō Takamori after the emperor rejected his brilliant plan of provoking war with Korea by getting the Koreans to kill him.
Meiji [or Mutsuhito]
Emperor of Japan [or Tennō; prompt on “Emperor”]
Satsuma Rebellion &lt;JB History&gt;
It is still not known whether this man sponsored the killing of Topsy the elephant. For 10 points each:
Name this inventor of the lightbulb and diehard advocate of DC power.
Edison disputed several patents with this inventor of the automatic machine gun. His “Captive Flying Machines” were built in several English cities to encourage public interest in human flight.
Maxim gave a prototype of his machine gun to an expedition under the leadership of this Welsh explorer nicknamed “Rock-Breaker,” who is famous for his quip upon encountering Dr. Livingstone in Tanzania.
Thomas Edison
Hiram Maxim
Henry Morton Stanley [or John Rowlands] &lt;AP History&gt;
A corruption of this city’s name names a <em>Times</em> newspaper published by the Sherwood Foresters battalion. For 10 points each:
Name this Belgian city that was the site of roughly five battles in World War I, the third of which is called the Battle of Passchendaele.
In the 1915 Race to the Sea, which ended with the First Battle of Ypres, many of these fortifications were constructed. Soldiers on the Western Front spent much of their time in these hellish ditches.
Prior to the invasion of Belgium in 1914, the German chancellor compared the Treaty of London, which guaranteed Belgian neutrality, to this sort of thing. Please give the standard, three-word English translation.
Ypres [or Wipers]
trenches
a scrap of paper [prompt on partial answers] &lt;JB History&gt;
This document’s “clause 61,” or “security clause,” created a council of 25 men who would ensure that it was followed. For 10 points each:
Name this document signed by King John at Runnymede after the Baron’s revolt. This document’s name literally means “Great Charter.”
As a child, John I was given this nickname because it seemed unlikely that he would inherit any territory as Henry II’s youngest son.
A later baronial revolt was led by this nobleman, who granted landholders the right to vote in parliamentary elections after capturing King Henry III. He was later killed by Henry’s son, Edward, at the Battle of Evesham.
Magna Carta [or Magna Carta Libertatum; or the Great Charter for Liberties until “Great” is read]
Lackland [or sanz Terre]
Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester [prompt on “Simon”] &lt;JB History&gt;
This dynasty’s House of Wisdom produced texts like the <em>Book of Ingenious Devices</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this caliphate that supplanted the Umayyads and eventually established a capital at Baghdad.
The Abbasid caliphate also faced the Zanj Rebellion, which is traditionally thought to have been started by people of this type working in Mesopotamian salt marshes. The Triangular Trade brought these people from Africa.
The Abbasids also defeated forces from this modern-day country at the Battle of Talas, after which captured artisans were supposedly forced to work at a factory in Samarkand.
Abbasid caliphate
slaves
China [or the Tang dynasty] &lt;JB History&gt;
During its country’s first free election, this party used a modified version of a poster for the movie <em>High Noon</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this trade union founded by Lech Wałęsa that, in 1989, secured semi-free elections in a Warsaw Pact country.
Solidarity was founded in this country’s city of Gdańsk. The Warsaw Pact was named for this country’s capital.
Solidarity was founded at one of these places named for Lenin, where Lech Wałęsa worked as an electrician.
Solidarity [or Solidarność]
Poland
shipyards [or dockyards] &lt;JB History&gt;
A king of this name was forced to give back territory he conquered in the Spanish Netherlands by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. For 10 points each:
Give this common name of French kings, whose fourteenth holder fought the War of Devolution and was called “the Sun King.”
The fortresses acquired by Louis by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle were renovated by this military engineer, who fortified hundreds of French cities and improved its defensive border.
Louis XIV is also known for claiming “I am” this entity. Frederick the Great called himself the “first servant” of this entity.
Louis [or Louis XIV]
Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban
the state [or l’état] &lt;JB History&gt;
Presidential elections in the Western United States may be affected by the results of this type of poll from Eastern states. For 10 points each:
These polls survey voters immediately after they cast their votes. They are the most immediate measure of the results of an election.
This prominent polling company conducts exit polls in addition to other opinion polls. Unlike other polling companies, this firm successfully predicted Franklin Roosevelt’s landslide victory in 1936.
While most polls are released by private companies, one group that releases many election polls is this private university based in Connecticut.
exit polls
Gallup
Quinnipiac University &lt;NC Misc&gt;
Thomas Jefferson described the controversy around this legislation as a “fire-bell in the night.” For 10 points each:
Name this legislation proposed by Henry Clay that admitted Maine as a free state and the namesake territory as a slave state.
James Tallmadge proposed, and names, an unsuccessful amendment to the Compromise that would have freed slaves in Missouri based on this criteria.
A later anti-slavery proposal, the Wilmot Proviso, would have limited slavery in the territories acquired during this war, which was fought against a country led by Santa Anna.
Missouri Compromise [or Compromise of 1820]
their age [or equivalents; or anything indicating that slaves born in Missouri would be freed when they reached the age of twenty-five]
Mexican–American War [or Mexico War] &lt;JB History&gt;
Answer some questions about a religious controversy involving Martin Luther. For 10 points each:
Luther was opposed to the selling of these entities, which in Catholic theology grant full or partial remission of sin by drawing upon the good works of Jesus and the saints from the Treasury of Merit.
In particular, Luther disagreed with the teachings of this Dominican friar, who preached that “When a penny in the coffer rings, a soul from Purgatory springs” on the matter of indulgences for the dead.
Luther wrote this set of propositions to initiate a debate on indulgences, and was apocryphally said to have nailed them to Wittenberg’s church door.
letters of indulgence [or indulgences]
Johann Tetzel
The Ninety-five Theses [or Disputatio pro declaratione virtutis indulgentiarum] &lt;WC Religion&gt;
This king had an Andalusian architect build him the Sankore Madrasah and the Djingareyber Mosque for his University of Timbuktu. For 10 points each:
Name this king who allegedly devalued the price of gold in Cairo by giving out so much of it during one journey.
Mansa Musa was a king of this West African empire, which was founded by Sundiata Keita and shares its name with a modern-day country.
By contrast, the stinginess of Mansa Musa’s successor Suleiman was the subject of complaint for this Moroccan traveller, whose visits to places like Somalia, Crimea, and Sri Lanka were described in the Rihla.
Mansa Musa I [or Musa Keita I]
Mali empire [or Nyani empire; prompt on “Mandinka empire”]
Muhammad Ibn Battuta &lt;JB History&gt;
This work discusses how all public functions can be classified under “the sword, the robe, the church and the administration.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1789 pamphlet by the Abbé Sieyès that answers the title question with “everything.”
After the Third Estate was locked out of a meeting of the Estates-General, they convened in one of these places and took a namesake oath to not stop meeting until France had a constitution.
Later, when the French Revolution turned into the Reign of Terror, thousands of people were executed with this decapitation device named for the doctor who invented it.
What is the Third Estate? [or Qu’est-ce que le tiers-état?]
tennis courts [or anything indicating a room where tennis is played]
guillotine &lt;JB History&gt;
Answer the following about the ultra-right wing, anti-communist John Birch Society. For 10 points each:
The society took its name from a missionary who was supposedly the first casualty of the Cold War for being killed in this country. American relations with this country were terminated in 1949 when Mao seized power here.
Larry McDonald, the Society’s second president, was killed when Flight 007 of this airline was shot down for entering Soviet airspace in 1983.
The Society split over supporting this Republican candidate in 1964. This man’s slogan “In your heart, you know he’s right” was mocked with “In your guts, you know he’s nuts” by LBJ’s campaign, which also ran the Daisy Ad against him.
China
Korean Air Lines [or KAL]
Barry Morris Goldwater &lt;JB History&gt;
Prisoners were held in Camp Ashcan in Luxembourg before being transferred to this city. For 10 points each:
Name this German city, the namesake and location of some 1945 trials at which ten leading Nazis were sentenced to death.
Although he was sentenced to hang at Nuremberg, this man took a cyanide capsule the night before his execution. This head of the Luftwaffe Air Force was expelled from the Nazi party for offering to take power in 1945.
Nuremberg had earlier been the site of massive Nazi party rallies, one of which was documented in this propaganda film made by Leni Riefenstahl.
Nuremberg [or Nürnberg]
Hermann Goering
Triumph of the Will [or Triumph des Willens] &lt;JB History&gt;
Although he lived for part of his life in South America and his birthplace of Nice is today part of France, this man always considered himself Italian. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian patriot who contributed to the process of Italian unification by leading the Expedition of the Thousand to conquer the Kingdom of Two Sicilies.
Italian unification was accomplished when the Italian peninsula was conquered by this kingdom, which was ruled by the House of Savoy.
One of the leading strategists of Italian unification was this statesman, who served as Prime Minister of Piedmont-Sardinia before becoming the first Prime Minister of Italy.
Giuseppe Garibaldi
Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia [accept either part]
Camillo di Cavour [or Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour] &lt;NC History&gt;
In his most noteworthy office, this man replaced non-president James R. Garfield. For 10 points each:
Name this Secretary of the Interior who was accused by the US Forest Service Chief of collusion with private trusts regarding infrastructure developments in the Northwest in a 1910 political scandal.
The Ballinger–Pinchot affair was the first nail in the executive coffin of this President, although he continued his political career as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court from 1921 to 1930.
Taft tried running for re-election, but the concurrent run of Theodore Roosevelt under this personal party named for an animal allowed Woodrow Wilson to come out on top.
Richard Achilles Ballinger
William Howard Taft [prompt on “Taft”]
Progressive Party [or Bull Moose Party] &lt;AP History&gt;
This royal refused to shave his beard to escape execution because he felt it would damage his dignity. For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian royal appointed by Napoleon III as the Emperor of a certain Latin American nation. Despite his bravery during the attack on Querétaro, he was executed by popular demand in 1867.
Maximilian I shortly ruled over this nation where the War of the French Intervention was fought and the modernization period known as La Reforma was carried out.
After the abolition of Mexico’s monarchy, rebels led by this man and Porfirio Díaz regained power. He hailed from Oaxaca and was of Zapotec origin, which motivated him to fight for indigenous peoples’ rights.
Maximilian I [accept, but do not reveal, Maximilian I of Mexico]
Mexico
Benito Juárez &lt;AP History&gt;
This man was placed in leg irons after he was allegedly taken for a “rough ride” in handcuffs and without a seatbelt. For 10 points each:
Name this African-American man allegedly beaten to near-death by six police officers after he was arrested for the possession of an illegal switchblade. He later died after slipping into a coma.
The police officers involved in Gray’s death came from this Maryland city, where Governor Lawrence Hogan declared a state of emergency after heavy protests.
The Baltimore protests saw the reemergence of this campaign that began during the Trayvon Martin case. Its name is often used as a Twitter hashtag, and its founder interrupted Bernie Sanders during a speech in July 2015.
Freddie Carlos Gray, Jr. [prompt on “Freddie”]
Baltimore
Black Lives Matter &lt;AP Current Events&gt;
This war was covered with daily reports for <em>The Times</em> by William Howard Russell. For 10 points each:
Name this war fought over a namesake Black Sea peninsula, which Russia lost to an alliance of the United Kingdom, France, and the Ottoman Empire.
This “lady with a lamp” revolutionized nursing while working on the front of the Crimean War. She also popularized the pie chart with a diagram demonstrating the high rate of death by disease in the war.
William Howard Russell coined this term for a maneuver of Colin Campbell’s Highland Regiment during the war’s Battle of Balaklava, in which they stood two men deep to face a Russian cavalry charge.
Crimean War
Florence Nightingale
Thin Red Line [or Thin Red Streak] &lt;JB History&gt;
Name some instrumental figures from China’s 1911 Xīnhài Revolution. For 10 points each:
The Xīnhài Revolution forced this last Qīng emperor of China to abdicate the imperial throne at age six. During World War II, he was the emperor of the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo in occupied Manchuria.
This founder of China’s Nationalist Party was elected as provisional president in Nanjing during the Xīnhài Revolution. After his 1925 death, Chiang Kai-shek succeeded him as the leader of the Nationalist Party.
Sun Yat-sen ceded the presidency to this man, the commander of the modernized Běiyáng Army, in a power-sharing agreement. In 1915, he restored imperial rule by proclaiming himself emperor of China.
Henry Pǔyí [or Xuāntǒng Emperor or Kāngdé Emperor]
Sun Yat-sen [or Sūn Yìxiān or Sūn Zhōngshān]
Yuán Shìkǎi &lt;WC History&gt;
This organization’s symbols included a dog’s head and a broom. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian secret police of the 16th century that terrorized pretty much everyone in their namesake territory.
The oprichniki served as the secret police of this Russian czar, whose death began the Time of Troubles. His epithet probably refers to his formidable character rather than his evilness.
The oprichniki carried out a horrifying massacre of this city’s population. This second largest city in the Kievan Rus was a merchant republic that served as the easternmost city of the Hanseatic League.
oprichniki [or oprichnina]
Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV; or Ivan Grozny; Ivan Vasilevich; prompt on “Ivan”]
Veliky Novgorod [or Novgorod the Great] &lt;JB History&gt;
This case built on a decision involving the University of Texas Law School, <em>Sweatt v. Painter</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1954 Supreme Court case which ruled against the doctrine of “separate but equal” and overturned Plessy v. Ferguson.
Three years after the Brown decision, this state’s governor Orval Faubus attempted to use the National Guard to stop desegregation of Little Rock Central High School in this state’s capital.
During the hearing of Briggs v. Elliott, a case later combined with Brown, two psychologists with this surname named Kenneth and Mamie used their “doll experiment” to testify on the self-esteem issues produced in black children by segregation.
Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka [or Board of Education of Topeka v. Brown]
Arkansas
Clark &lt;JB History&gt;
The killing of five Jesuits in this colony’s town of Cuncolim prompted the strengthening of its inquisition. For 10 points each:
Name this former Portuguese colony invaded during Operation Vijay. It is currently a state whose official language is Konkani.
This first Prime Minister of India and father of Indira Gandhi ordered the invasion of Goa.
The largest city in Goa is named after this Portuguese explorer, who arrived in Calicut on his first trip to India.
Goa [or Gova]
Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru [prompt on “Panditji”]
Vasco da Gama &lt;AP History&gt;
According to Lucian, this structure’s designer Sostratus secretly signed his name on it under a layer of plaster. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Seven Wonders of the World, a structure also called the Pharos which was located in the harbour of an Egyptian port.
Ancient Alexandria was also home to a famous building of this type. The books housed in that building of this type were possibly destroyed in a fire set by Julius Caesar.
The Tower of Hercules was a Roman lighthouse built in this region. The Siege of Saguntum and Ilipa occurred in this Roman province during the Second Punic War, and it was also the site of Sertorius’s rebellion.
the Lighthouse of Alexandria
library
Spain [or Hispania] &lt;JB History&gt;
A mob burned down the fortified home of John Neville because he collected taxes on this good. For 10 points each:
Name this type of alcohol. An excise tax on it sparked a namesake 1791 rebellion in Western Pennsylvania.
The barking of a dog named Whiskey in reference to the Whiskey rebellion betrayed the namesake of this rebellion. This rebellion also occurred in Pennsylvania and was a response to the home tax enacted by John Adams.
Decades later, the corrupt “Whiskey Ring” was uncovered during the scandal-ridden administration of this president. This successor to Andrew Johnson led the Union forces in the Civil War.
whiskey
Fries’s Rebellion [or Hot Water Rebellion]
Ulysses S. Grant &lt;JB History&gt;
Austen Chamberlain and Gustav Stresemann won Nobel Peace Prizes for their roles in negotiating these treaties. For 10 points each:
Name this 1925 series of treaties, sometimes called a “pact,” which normalized European relations with the Weimar Republic and fixed the Franco-German border.
The “spirit of Locarno” refers to the period of peacemaking pacts initiated by this organization, a precursor to the United Nations which was set up after World War I.
This French foreign minister also won a Nobel for his role in the Locarno Pact, though he is better known for naming, with Frank Kellogg, a 1928 pact that attempted to outlaw war.
Locarno Pact
League of Nations
Aristide Briand &lt;JB History&gt;
In one of this man’s battles, his enemies rallied around a standard-bearing cart called the Carroccio. For 10 points each:
Name this Holy Roman Emperor who fought with the Lombard League and died while crossing a river in his armor, thus cutting short his participation in the Third Crusade.
Frederick was assumed to be killed at this battle, only to reappear at the gates of Pavia several days later. He was decisively defeated by the Lombard League at this battle.
Frederick participated in the Third Crusade alongside Philip II and an English king by this name, who was nicknamed “Lionheart.”
Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I]
Battle of Legnano
Richard &lt;JB History&gt;
Answer the following about some prominent Italian political families of the Renaissance. For 10 points each:
Leonardo da Vinci painted The Last Supper while under the patronage of this Duke of Milan from the Sforza family.
The Pazzi conspiracy attempted to overthrow this banking family by assassinating two of its members, Giuliano and Lorenzo the Magnificent. It first gained control over Florence under the leadership of Cosimo.
This family of Spanish origin produced two popes, Calixtus III and Alexander VI. The latter fathered two notable illegitimate children, Cesare and Lucrezia, by his mistress Vannozza Catanei.
Ludovico il Moro [or Ludovico Maria Sforza]
de Medici family
Borgias [or Borjas] &lt;WC History&gt;
This president’s National Commission on Excellence in Education criticized the country’s schools in the report <em>A Nation at Risk</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this president whose other children-related policies included the anti-drug “Just Say No” campaign, which was devised by his wife.
Reagan’s economic policies, which focused on deregulation and tax-cuts, are often known as “trickle-down” economics or by this other term. George H. W. Bush dismissed this approach as “voodoo economics.”
Reagan also appointed Sandra Day O’Connor as the first female member of this body. Reagan elevated William Rehnquist to “chief” of this body and unsuccessfully nominated Robert Bork for it.
Ronald Reagan
supply-side economics
Supreme Court of the United States [or SCOTUS] &lt;JB History&gt;
While serving as a senior officer in the Russian army, this man lost his right arm during the Battle of Dresden. For 10 points each:
Name this man, one of the leaders of the Filiki Eteria, who supported a revolt against the Ottoman Empire in Wallachia.
Ypsilantis was considered a hero during this Balkan country’s revolution against Ottoman rule. Ioannis Kapodistrias became its first leader during that war of independence, which included the battle of Navarino.
Ypsilantis sought refuge in Austria, but was captured until his release on command of this Russian emperor who led the Russian empire during its physical apex and the Crimean War.
Alexander Ypsilantis [or Alexander Ypsilanti; or Alexandros Ypsilantos]
Greece
Nicholas I Pavlovich Romanov [or Nikolai I; prompt on “Nicholas” or “Nikolai”] &lt;AP History&gt;
A book by Henri Pirenne about the decline of antiquity and the Roman trade world is titled for Mohammed and this man. For 10 points each:
Name this king whose rear guard under Roland was massacred by Basques at Roncevaux Pass while returning from a campaign against the Spanish Umayyads.
Pirenne argues that the Arab conquests broke the unity of this body of water, allowing the rise of feudal empires like Charlemagne’s. This body of water lies between Europe and Africa.
The Pirenne Thesis contradicts this historian’s view that the Germanic invasions of the 5th century marked the end of the Roman World, a theory he put forth in his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
Charlemagne [accept Charles the Great, Carolus Magnus, or Charles I; prompt on “Charles” or “Carolus”]
Mediterranean Sea
Edward Gibbon &lt;JB History&gt;
This man commissioned Eadweard Muybridge to research the galloping of his horses. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the “Big Four” who served as president of Southern and Central Pacific during the 1890s and founded a university which he named for his deceased son.
Stanford’s Central Pacific company built the western portion of this long path stretching from Sacramento to Council Bluffs, Iowa.
This man’s cousin Asa was one of the first to submit plans to Congress for a transcontinental railroad. This man popularized interchangeable parts and invented the cotton gin.
Leland Stanford
First Transcontinental Railroad [or Pacific Railroad or the Overland Route]
Eli Whitney &lt;AP History&gt;
This dynasty’s Southern period began after its emperor was captured and its capital, Kāifēng, sacked by invading Jurchens. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty, which followed the Táng Dynasty and was supplanted by Kublai Khan’s Yuán Dynasty. This dynasty was the first to use gunpowder.
During the Sòng Dynasty, a chancellor having this family name and the given name Ānshí attempted to reform society and government with his New Policies. This was the family name of a usurper who declared the Xīn Dynasty before he was overthrown by the Red Eyebrows rebellion.
The Southern Sòng Dynasty was defeated by these people at the Battle of Yámén. These people name a country north of China and were unified by Genghis Khan.
Sòng Dynasty
Wáng [or Wáng Ānshí; or Wáng Mǎng]
Mongols &lt;JB History&gt;
This event became possible when the four powers renounced their rights to a certain country under the Two Plus Four Treaty. For 10 points each:
Name this event that resulted in the dissolution of the Socialist Unity Party, which has been led by Walter Ulbricht, Erich Honecker, and Egon Krenz.
German reunification was preceded by jubilant crowds destroying this structure, which was crossed by Checkpoint Charlie and split the capital of Germany into East and West parts.
In 1990, this former chancellor of West Germany from the Christian Democratic Union became the first leader of a reunified Germany.
German reunification [or anything indicating the reunification of West and East Germany or Deutschland, or the end of East Germany; do not accept “German unification”]
Berlin Wall
Helmut Kohl &lt;JB History&gt;
Answer the following about the military accomplishments of European dukes. For 10 points each:
The Duke of Alba established the “Council of Blood” during this war, the revolt of the Spanish Netherlands against Philip II of Spain.
Arthur Wellesley, the Duke of Wellington, led his troops to victory over Napoleon at this 1815 battle.
This English statesman helped defeat the Monmouth Rebellion and was assisted by Eugene of Savoy in his victory at Blenheim.
Eighty Years’ War [or Dutch War of Independence]
Battle of Waterloo
John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough [accept either underlined portion] &lt;AP History&gt;
The epitaph of the “Boot Monument” commemorates this man’s actions but does not name him. For 10 points each:
Name this American general who defected to the British army even after he contributed to a decisive American victory at Saratoga.
A nuclear technician from this country was called a traitor for taking the alias “John Crossman” to leak details of its nuclear program. This country’s air force destroyed another country’s Osirak reactor in Operation Opera.
Catherine the Great put down a peasant’s rebellion headed by this Russian traitor general who impersonated the late Emperor Peter III.
Benedict Arnold
Israel
Yemelyan Pugachev &lt;AP History&gt;
The launch of this spacecraft triggered a massive increase in funding for technology and foreign language education in the US. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet space probe, the first satellite to enter outer space. Its successor carried the dog Laika.
The Soviet space program launched from research sites like the Baikonur Cosmodrome in this former Soviet republic, the last one to declare independence from the USSR.
This Russian pilot was the first human to travel to outer space, doing so in the USSR’s Vostok spacecraft in April 1961.
Sputnik [or Sputnik 1; do not accept “Sputnik 2”]
Kazakhstan
Yuri Gagarin &lt;AP History&gt;
This man argued for the creation of republics, not monarchies, during his meeting at Guayaquil with José de San Martin. For 10 points each:
Name this man known as “the Liberator” for his role in the independence of South America from the Spanish. He is the namesake of a country with cities like La Paz and Sucre.
In 1830, Bolívar created a congress known by this term in Colombia. The anti-Spanish “Decree of War to the Death” was issued by Bolívar during a campaign to liberate Venezuela that was known by this adjective.
Bolívar ordered his aide-de-camp, who was from this European country, to burn his papers after his death. The father of Chile’s first head of state was from this country, as was Eliza Lynch, the mistress of Francisco Solano López.
Simón Bolívar
admirable
Ireland &lt;JB History&gt;
Harcourt Morgan served on the board of directors for this agency, the constitutionality of which was upheld in the <em>Ashwander</em> case. For 10 points each:
Name this agency created in 1933 that was intended to construct dams on a namesake body of water.
The TVA was created in the first Hundred Days of this program, during which FDR created various agencies intended to help the country recover from the Great Depression.
This senator championed the TVA and is the namesake of a planned city built during the project. This man is also the first namesake of an act that outlawed yellow-dog contracts.
Tennessee Valley Authority
the New Deal
George William Norris &lt;JB History&gt;
