For 10 points each, answer the following about the early U.S. textile industry:
This planned industrial city was the center of the early American textile industry. “Mill Girls” who originally staffed its mills formed a “Labor Reform Association” in this city to advocate for a 10-hour work day.
The Lowell mills primarily processed this crop. Eli Whitney’s “gin” helped automate the process of removing seeds from this crop.
This machine, which helped automate clothing production in the mid 19th century, was the subject of a dispute between Isaac Singer and Elias Howe, the latter of whom created the lockstitch variety of this device.
Lowell, Massachusetts
cotton
sewing machine &lt;US History — Gray&gt; [Edited]
The Steele dossier claimed that pro-Russian politician Viktor Yanukovich (yan-uh-KOH-vich) gave kick-backs to this former campaign manager for Donald Trump. For 10 points each:
Name this person, who with his associate Rick Gates consulted for Yanukovich. After being indicted by the Mueller Report, this man pled guilty to conspiracy to defraud the United States, among other charges.
When Manafort consulted for him, Viktor Yanukovich was the president of this country. Shortly after Yanukovich was deposed, Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from this country.
Manafort, Donald Trump, Jr., and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskya were involved in a 2016 meeting at this location that sought to dig up dirt on Hillary Clinton.
Paul Manafort [or Paul John Manafort Jr.]
Ukraine
Trump Tower [or 721 Fifth Avenue; prompt on Manhattan or New York City] &lt;Current Events — Lin/Gray&gt; [Edited]
This president’s would-be assassin attempted to attract the attention of actress Jodie Foster. For 10 points each:
Name this US President who was elected in 1980 and almost assassinated in 1981 by John Hinckley Jr. After that event, he joked to his wife Nancy that he “forgot to duck.”
Nancy Reagan, with her husband’s support, pioneered this anti-drug advertising campaign. The “Stop the Madness” music video was a highlight of this campaign.
This press secretary to Ronald Reagan was wounded and permanently disabled in the attempted assassination of Reagan and inspired a later handgun bill signed into law in 1993.
Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]
Just Say No
James Scott Brady &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This woman pushed for the replacement of Robert Lansing during a period of “stewardship” that she undertook with Cary Grayson. For 10 points each:
Name this First Lady, who was called the “Acting President” over a period of seventeen months during which her husband was incapacitated with a stroke.
Woodrow Wilson suffered his stroke in 1919 while on a speaking tour promoting the Treaty of Versailles, which ended this war.
Woodrow Wilson’s stroke and the subsequent stewardship of Edith Wilson helped inspire this amendment which, among other things, defines the line of succession and allows the cabinet to declare the president unfit for office.
Edith Wilson [or Edith Bolling or Edith Galt; prompt on Wilson]
World War I [or the First World War or the Great War]
Twenty-Fifth Amendment [or Amendment 25] &lt;US History — Gray&gt; [Edited]
The few historical records that mention this man all say he was merely in charge of defending the French border with the Bretons. For 10 points each:
Name this military commander. His life was greatly dramatized in his eponymous chanson de geste, the earliest surviving piece of French literature.
Roland served this King of the Franks and son of Pepin the Short who was crowned Emperor of the Romans on Christmas Day in the year 800. This king’s realm was divided by his three grandsons in the Treaty of Verdun.
La Chanson de Roland is a retelling of this battle in which Roland dies. Charlemagne’s rear guard was ambushed by Basque forces during this battle, which occurred during his retreat across the Pyrenees.
Roland [or Orlando; accept Song of Roland or La Chanson de Roland]
Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Charles I or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles]
Battle of Roncevaux Pass  &lt;European History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Ma]
An aqueduct that this ruler finished brought water from the Caeruleus (chai-RULE-ee-us) spring. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor who also built the Anio Novus aqueduct as a part of his public works campaign. This emperor ordered the draining of the Fucine lake in order to increase the amount of arable land for Rome.
Claudius was crowned emperor by this group after he was found hiding behind a curtain. This elite unit was tasked with protecting the emperor, but often killed the emperor instead.
Claudius was succeeded by this emperor. Cassius Dio claimed that this emperor apocryphally twiddled his thumbs during the Great Fire of Rome in 68 AD.
Claudius [or Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
Praetorian Guard [or Cohortes Praetoriae]
Nero [or Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
In an interview with James Creelman, this leader declared that he would allow fully democratic elections at the end of his current term, but he didn’t. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, who encouraged American investment in his country. He was advised by José Limantour and other so-called cientificos (see-ehn-TEE-fee-cohs).
Porfirio Díaz began his seventh term in this position after fraudulently winning the election of 1910, despite opposition from Francisco Madero. Since 1929, this position was held by members of the PRI until the 2000 election of Vicente Fox.
While President of Mexico, Porfirio Díaz secured the development of over 10,000 miles of this infrastructure. The United States brokered the Gadsden Purchase to gain space for the Southern Transcontinental line of this infrastructure.
Porfirio Díaz
President of Mexico [or Presidente de México or President of the United Mexican States or Presidente de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos; prompt on president or presidente]
railroads [or railways or rails; accept trains or train tracks] &lt;Latin American History — French&gt; [Edited]
This man earned his epithet after he suffered an injury while serving in Khorasan. For 10 points each:
Name this Turkic conqueror who ruled a successor state to the Chagatai Khanate from Samarkand. He was interred in a jade tomb after his death.
Timur defeated Bayezid I, nicknamed the “thunderbolt,” at a battle named after this city. This city is the current capital of Turkey.
Timur defeated Mahmud Khan of this city’s Tughlaq Dynasty during one campaign that led to over 100,000 deaths. A successor state centered in this city was led by Ibrahim Lodi.
Tamerlane [or Timur the Lame or Taimur Lang or Timur Gurkani or Taimur Gurkani]
Ankara [or Battle of Ankara]
Delhi [or Delhi Sultanate; do NOT accept or prompt on “New Delhi”] &lt;Asian History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
Due to his Nazi sympathies, this man was appointed governor of the Bahamas during World War II to get him out of Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this King of England, who gave up the throne of the United Kingdom in 1936 in order to marry the American divorcée Wallis Simpson.
Apocryphally, the League of Nations offered English athlete C. B. Fry the vacant throne of this country after the First World War, but he declined. This country was instead ruled from 1928 to 1939 by its only king, Zog.
In 1952, Albert Einstein was offered the presidency of this this young nation after the death of Chaim Weizmann, this country’s first president. Due to his age and lack of qualifications, Einstein also declined.
Edward VIII (“the eighth”) [prompt on Edward]
Albania
Israel [or State of Israel] &lt;European History — Gray&gt; [Edited]
A 2014 essay titled “The Case for” these things in The Atlantic calls adopting them “the full acceptance of our collective biography.” For 10 points each:
Name these payments to descendants of slaves. House Resolution 40, which has been re-introduced every Congress since 1989 by John Conyers, would create a commission to study these things.
“The Case for Reparations” was written by this essayist, who other stories in The Atlantic include “My President was Black” and who wrote the book Between the World and Me as a letter to his son.
This former Democratic presidential candidate introduced a Senate analogue to HR 40 and is also known for a “baby bond” proposal. This New Jersey senator was previously the mayor of Newark.
reparations for slavery [accept “The Case for Reparations”]
Ta-Nehisi Paul Coates
Cory Anthony Booker &lt;Current Events — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This man was known as “Raven” when he lived with the Cherokee. For 10 points each:
Name this winner at the Battle of San Jacinto, who later became the first President of the Texan Republic upon its creation in 1836. The most populous city in Texas is named for him.
This successor to Houston attempted to curb debt through the institution of the Texan Dollar, also known as the “redback,” but the currency experienced rapid inflation instead.
In exchange for federal assumption of Lamar’s debt, Texas was forced to cede land claims as far north as present-day Wyoming in this agreement. This agreement also established California as a free state.
Sam Houston [or Samuel Houston]
Mirabeau Lamar [or Mirabeau Buonaparte Lamar]
Compromise of 1850 &lt;U.S. History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This pharoah’s co-regent Thutmose III ordered a <em>damnatio</em> <em>memoriae</em> against this pharoah, erasing this pharaoh’s name and image from many official records. For 10 points each:
Name this pharaoh of the Fifteenth Dynasty. This pharaoh's mortuary temple in the Deir el-Bahari complex was designed by Senemut and is named Djeser-Djeseru, or the Holy of Holies.
Hatshepsut was the second pharaoh of this status. The first pharaoh of this status was Sobekneferu due to Amenmhat IV’s lack of male heirs.
Hatshepsut was buried together with her father Thutmose I in tomb KV20, likely the first tomb constructed in this area west of the Nile. Other pharaohs buried here include Tutankhamun.
Hatshepsut
female [accept woman or any answer indicating they are female ]
Valley of the Kings [or Valley of the Gates of the Kings or Wadi Abwad al Muluk; do NOT accept or prompt on “Valley of the Queens”] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Iyer&gt; [Ed. Ma]
This leader placed Mohammad Naguib under house arrest after an assassination attempt. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian leader who overthrew King Farouk in 1952. This leader accepted Soviet funding to build the Aswan High Dam, and he briefly resigned after Egyptian defeat in the Six-Day War.
Nasser formed the brief United Arab Republic with this country to the northeast, which was led by Hafez al-Assad. Hafez’s son, Bashar al-Assad, currently leads this country from Damascus.
Levi Eshkol, who led Israel during the Six-Day War, was the successor to this prime minister of Israel. This prime minister briefly resigned after the Lavon Affair.
Gamal Nasser [or Gamal Abdel Nasser Hussein]
Syria [or the Syrian Arab Republic or al-Jumhūrīyah al-ʻArabīyah as-Sūrīyah]
David Ben-Gurion [or David Grün] &lt;Asian History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This man founded the De Beers Company to take advantage of a diamond mining rush. For 10 points each:
Name this British colonialist who was depicted as a giant towering over Africa in several cartoons. This man is the namesake of an international postgraduate scholarship to study at Oxford.
Rhodes founded the De Beers Company with funding from this British banking family, who had earlier financed Rhodes’ efforts to buy out most small diamond mining operations in the Cape Colony.
Rhodes' ambition of linking Cape and Cairo by rail was stalled by this country's ambition for a “pink map” linking its African colonial possessions. This country's colony of Mozambique was first claimed by Vasco da Gama in 1498.
Cecil John Rhodes [or Rhodes scholarship]
Rothschild family [accept N.M. Rothschild and co.]
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic or República Portuguesa] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Athreya]
For 10 points each, answer the following about United States international diplomacy during the presidencies of Nixon and Ford:
Most of the diplomatic stance of their presidencies was shaped by this National Security Advisor and Secretary of State under both presidents. He won the Nobel Peace Prize for the Paris Peace Accords alongside Le Duc Tho.
Kissinger advised Nixon to support the western half of this nation during a bloody civil war, during which this country led by Yahya Khan ordered Operation Searchlight.
Kissinger organized Nixon’s visit to this country, where he met with its premier Zhōu Ēnlái, as well as meeting with Máo Zédōng.
Henry Kissinger
Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or West Pakistan; do NOT accept or prompt on “East Pakistan”]
People’s Republic of China [or Zhōngguó or Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó or PRC; do NOT accept or prompt on “Republic of China” or “Zhōnghuá Mínguó”] &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This bill was pushed for by the “Terrible Twins,” David Lloyd George and Winston Churchill. For 10 points each:
Name this bill that introduced taxes on land and incomes in order to use the wealthy to fund social welfare programs. This budget was not passed for over a year until the Parliament Act of 1911.
The Liberal Party pushed for the People’s Budget in response to the growing electoral threat of this social democratic party that grew out of the British trade union movement.
This upper house of Parliament stalled the People’s Budget for a year, which led to this house losing most of its veto power in the Parliament Act of 1911. This house represents the nobility, unlike the House of Commons.
People’s Budget [or 1909-1910 budget]
Labour Party
House of Lords [or House of Peers or The Right Honourable the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assembled] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Athreya]
Isidora Ibárurri (ee-BAH-roo-ree) coined the slogan “¡No pasarán!” (no pa-sa-RAHN) while in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose nationalist sympathizers were called the “Fifth Column” by Emilio Mola. The National Defence Council was established in this city after the deposition of Juan Negrín.
The fall of Madrid led to the end of this war between Nationalists and Republicans. Francisco Franco rose to the position of generalissimo after this war.
This Nationalist political party of Francisco Franco was consolidated with the JONS party to consolidate Franco’s influence. Jose Primo de Rivera once led this party.
Madrid
Spanish Civil War
Falange (fa-LON-hay) [or FET or Falange Española Tradicionalista] &lt;European History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
Preceding this battle, one commander pretended to conjure up magical southeastern winds; in reality, he had predicted the winds with astronomical observation. For 10 points each:
Name this battle in which a fake surrender baited Cáo Cāo’s chain-linked fleet into the fire ship trap set by Liú Bèi and Sūn Quán.
Despite occurring over a decade before the formal start of this period, the Battle of Red Cliffs is one of the climaxes in this period’s “Romance,” which chronicles the struggle between the Wei, Shu, and Wu.
Zhū Yuánzhāng reused the fire ship strategy at the Battle of Lake Póyáng to destroy the fleet of Chén Yǒuliàng, uniting China to form this dynasty. The Yǒnglè Emperor of this dynasty sent Zhèng Hé on seven voyages.
Battle of Red Cliffs [or Chìbì zhī zhàn]
Three Kingdoms [or Sānguó; accept Romance of the Three Kingdoms or Sānguó Yǎnyì]
Míng Dynasty [or Míng cháo or Dà Míng Dì Guó] &lt;Asian History — Iyer&gt; [Ed. Ma]
In the 1884 campaign, this man’s party was attacked as supporting “Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion.” For 10 points each:
Name this president, who dealt with the Panic of 1893 at the start of his second term. His two non-consecutive terms were interrupted by Benjamin Harrison.
In the election of 1884, Cleveland was attacked using this five-word phrase for his affair and subsequent illegitimate child with Maria Halpin.
Cleveland sent in troops to put down this 1894 strike. This railroad strike against a namesake Palace Car company was led by Eugene V. Debs.
Grover Cleveland [or Stephen Grover Cleveland]
“Ma, Ma, Where’s My Pa?”
Pullman Strike &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
The Ordinance of Labourers attempted to fix the wages of these people to those before the Black Death. For 10 points each:
Name this social class of people who revolted after the Ordinance of Labourers was enacted. Many of this general class of people were resigned to a status of serfdom before the revolt.
This namesake of an English peasant revolt led Kentish rebels in a raid on London. This man’s head would later be kept on a pole and paraded throughout the city.
Wat Tyler led English peasants in an uprising that began after John of Gaunt introduced this type of tax to fund the Hundred Year’s War.
English peasants
Wat Tyler [accept Walter Tyler]
poll tax [accept head tax or capitation] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Athreya&gt; [Edited]
The second line of the Marines’ Hymn refers to American involvement in these wars on the “shores of Tripoli." For 10 points each:
Name these wars fought between America and North African pirates in the early 19th century.
This third President of the United States declared the Barbary Wars. This president also made the Louisiana Purchase.
During the First Barbary War, this American commander recaptured and burned the USS Philadelphia after disguising his ship, the USS Intrepid, to look like a trading vessel.
Barbary Wars
Thomas Jefferson
Stephen Decatur Jr. &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Edited]
While serving in Naples, this military leader ordered the execution of revolutionary leader Francesco Caracciolo (fran-ches-co ca-ra-chee-o-lo). For 10 points each:
Name this commander who sent the signal “England expects that every man will do his duty” while aboard the HMS Victory.
Nelson sent that message during this naval battle during the Napoleonic War, where his forces defeated a combined Spanish and French fleet led by Admiral Villeneuve (vill-ah-noove). A square in London is named in honor of this battle.
Nelson held a telescope to his blind eye and declared that he saw no signal, disobeying Admiral Hyde Parker’s orders to retreat at this battle. The British successfully blockaded the Dano-Norwegian fleet at this battle.
Admiral Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount Nelson
Battle of Trafalgar
Battle of Copenhagen &lt;European History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This commander once won a battle against a large opponent force by bribing enemy Kipchaks, defeating the rest of the force, and then slaughtering the Kipchaks’ troops and stealing their baggage train. For 10 points each:
Name this undefeated military commander, known as a “dog” or noyan of Temüjin, who engineered victories at the battles of Mohi and the Kalka River.
The Great Cavalry Raid, which was engineered by Subotai, encircled this body of water. Astrakhan lies on this largest lake in the world.
Cumans who had earlier lost the Battle of the Kalka River moved to this kingdom, whose king Béla IV lost the battle of Mohi to Subotai. This kingdom was later ruled by Matthias Corvinus.
Subutai [or Subotai or Bagatur]
Caspian Sea
Hungary [or Kingdom of Hungary or Magyarország or Magyar Királyság] &lt;Asian History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
The Schneider Doctrine, which stated that the military shouldn’t involve itself in politics, aided in this leader’s rise. For 10 points each:
Name this quasi-Marxist leader who committed suicide at the La Moneda palace after being overthrown in 1973 in a coup (coo) led by Augusto Pinochet (PEE-no-chay).
Salvador Allende and Augusto Pinochet both led this country in the 1970s from its capital of Santiago.
Pinochet was advised by this group of laissez-faire (lay-say-fair) economists during his rule. Despite this group’s advice, the copper industry in Chile remained under government control after it was nationalized under Allende.
Salvador Allende [or Salvador Guillermo Allende Gossens]
Republic of Chile [or Republicá de Chile]
Chicago Boys &lt;Latin American History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This leader held the position of Grand Prince of Vladimir after stepping down as prince of Novgorod. For 10 points each:
Name this commander who earned his name by defeating a Swedish invasion along a river north of Novgorod. He also defeated the Teutonic Order at the Battle of the Ice.
Nevsky submitted to this people’s Golden Horde Khanate in order to prevent the ransacking of Novgorod while he was grand prince. This people’s namesake empire was founded by Chinggis Khan.
Alongside serving as the Prince of Novgorod, Nevsky served as the Grand Prince of this city. This city was the center of a namesake “Rus” until it was sacked by the Golden Horde.
Saint Alexander Nevsky [or Alexander Yaroslavich]
Mongols
Kiev [or Kyiv] &lt;European History — Iyer/Ma&gt; [Edited]
This conflict was caused in part by the Doctrine of Lapse, which allowed princely states to come under British control if they had no male heir. For 10 points each:
Name this large-scale rebellion of Indian soldiers against British rule. After this rebellion, Britain took direct control of India.
Leaders of the Sepoy Mutiny included the last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar and Nana Saheb, the son of this Hindu empire’s last Peshwa. This empire was founded by Shivaji and ruled most of India after the decline of the Mughals.
Another cause of the Sepoy Mutiny was the greasing of rifle cartridges in the fat of pigs and this animal, which is considered sacred by Hindus.
Sepoy Mutiny [or First Indian War of Independence or Indian Insurrection or Indian Mutiny of 1857; accept Revolt or Rebellion in place of Mutiny]
Maratha Empire [or Maratha Confederacy]
cows [or cattle] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Athreya&gt; [Edited]
The governor of California Leland Stanford was among the “Big Four,” who were the largest shareholders in this company. For 10 points each:
Name this company which, unlike a counterpart, primarily used Chinese labor to build a project eastward from Sacramento, California, to Promontory Point, Utah.
The Union Pacific and Central Pacific companies built the two legs of this project, which Leland Stanford completed by hammering a golden spike.
After the construction of the railroad, the Union Pacific was implicated in a scandal named for this company, which had charged extortionately high rates for railroad construction paid for by the government.
Central Pacific Railroad
First Transcontinental Railroad [or Overland Route]
Crédit Mobilier of America &lt;US History — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This monarch signed the treaty of Kucuk-Kaynarca (KUCH-uk kuh-NAR-juh), which gave her domain protection over all Christians of the Ottoman Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this empress of Russia whose lovers included Grigory Potemkin and Grigory Orlov. She suppressed Pugachev’s revolt.
Catherine signed the second partition of this country, which was once ruled by the Jagiellonian (yaw-gyuh-LOH-nee-uhn) Dynasty from Krakow.
This lover of Catherine the Great ruled Poland before it was partitioned. He suppressed the Kosciuszko (ko-SHOOSH-ko) uprising and passed reforms during the period of the Great Sejm (same).
Catherine the Great [or Catherine II or Yekaterina Velikaya or Ekaterina Velikaya; prompt on Catherine or Yekaterina or Ekaterina]
Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska or Republika Włoska; accept Poland-Lithuania or Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth ]
Stanisław Poniatowski (STAH-nee-swaff pone-ya-TOFF-skee) [or Stanisław II Augustus] &lt;European History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
This party’s name means “Ours Alone” or “We Ourselves.” For 10 points each:
Name this political party, which does not sit in the British Parliament, founded by Arthur Griffith. This Irish Republican political party was once led by Gerry Adams as well as former IRA leader Martin McGuinness.
This second Taoiseach (tee-sha) of Ireland, who founded Fianna Fáil (fi-ahnna foil), was once a member of Sinn Fein. He was the President of the Daíl Éireann (doyl air-ann) and helped pass the Irish Constitution of 1937.
The Dail Éireann sits in this city, the capital of Ireland.
Sinn Fein (shin fain)
Eamon De Valera
Dublin [or Baile Átha Cliath] &lt;European History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
This king’s mother was the hunchback Sogolon and he was advised by the griot (gree-OH) Balla Fasséké (fah-SAY-kay). For 10 points each:
Name this man who was born crippled, needing to use an iron staff to walk. When he later taught himself how to walk, the staff magically bent into the shape of a bow.
The Epic of Sundiata describes his victory over Sumanguru Kanté at the 1235 Battle of Kirina, after which he founded this African empire. This empire was later ruled by Mansa Musa, and its cities included Timbuktu.
Under Mansa Musa, one of these institutions called Sankore flourished in Timbuktu. The Arabic term madrasa refers to an Islamic one of these institutions.
Sundiata Keita [or Manding Diara or Sogolon Djata or Nare Maghan or Sogo Sogo Simbon Salaba]
Mali Empire [or Manden Kurufaba]
universities [or colleges or Islamic schools; accept Sankore University or University of Sankore] &lt;African History — Venkateswaran&gt; [Edited]
John Flammang Schrank shot this man in the chest three times before he was due to give a speech, but this leader still gave the speech before seeking medical attention. For 10 points each:
Name this US President who succeeded William McKinley after McKinley’s assassination in 1901. This president used the term “Square Deal” for his domestic agenda.
Roosevelt fought in the Battle of San Juan Hill during the Spanish-American War as a part of this cavalry division, which was established by Leonard Wood.
Roosevelt sent the Great White Fleet to display U.S. power based on this thinker’s theory of hegemony. This thinker wrote The Influence of Sea Power Upon History.
Theodore Roosevelt [or Theodore Roosevelt Jr. or Teddy Roosevelt or T. Roosevelt; prompt on Roosevelt]
Rough Riders [or 1st United States Volunteer Cavalry]
Alfred Thayer Mahan &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This military commander’s army was defeated at one battle after being overrun at Kalkriese (kal-krysah) hill. For 10 points each:
Name this military commander who suffered a crushing loss to Arminius after ignoring a warning from Segestes. This man was apocryphally told to “give me back my legions” by his superior after that loss.
Varus’s loss to Arminius occurred at this 9 AD battle, which led to the loss of three Roman legions and their eagle standards.
This emperor, Varus’s superior, was said to have lamented the loss at Teutoburg Forest by yelling “give me back my legions” at him. This adopted son of Julius Caesar gained power after the battle of Actium.
Quinctilius Varus
Battle of the Teutoburg Forest [or Schlacht im Teutoburger Wald]
Augustus [or Imperator Caesar Divi filius Augustus or Octavian or Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus or Gaius Octavius Thurinus] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This Sultan’s most famous feat was done with the help of Orban, who helped build a famously large bombard. For 10 points each:
Name this Sultan who conquered the Byzantine Empire in 1453 by destroying the walls of its capital.
Mehmed defeated the 11th ruler of this name by destroying the capital of the Byzantine empire. That capital was named after another emperor of this name who adopted Christianity as the official Roman religion.
Constantinople was earlier sacked during this campaign, which led to the decline of the Byzantine Empire. Enrico Dandolo, the Doge of Venice, had earlier led this campaign.
Mehmed II [or Mehmed the Conqueror; prompt on Mehmed]
Constantine [or Constantine XI or Constantine I; accept Constantinople]
Fourth Crusade [prompt on Crusades] &lt;Asian History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about Kaiser Wilhelm II’s delusions of grandeur:
Wilhelm ordered the expansion of this military force under Alfred von Tirpitz. Tirpitz believed that under “risk theory,” Britain would be intimidated enough by this military force to avoid conflict.
Wilhelm’s failure to renew the Reinsurance Treaty with this country is said to have led to the start of World War I. Wilhelm ordered the German forces to mobilize after this country partially mobilized against Austria.
Wilhelm’s delusions of grandeur conflicted with the realpolitik (“real-politic”) of this “Iron Chancellor,” whose firing by Wilhelm is depicted in the cartoon “Dropping the Pilot” by John Tenniel.
Imperial German navy [or Kaiserliche Marine]
Russian Empire [or Rossiskaya Imperiya or Rossiya; do NOT accept or prompt on “USSR” or “Soviet Union”]
Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Furst von Bismarck, Graf von Bismarck-Schonhausen, Herzog von Lauenberg; or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Count of Bismarck, Schonhausen, Duke of Lauenburg] &lt;European History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Hong]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the Western Theater of the Civil War:
This military strategy proposed by General Winfield Scott aimed to cut off the South in two by controlling the Mississippi River and restricting the Confederate economy through naval blockades.
This Union general’s victory against John Pemberton’s forces at the battle of Vicksburg fully split the Confederacy in half. This general later accepted Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox Courthouse.
This Union victory under John P. Slough in the New Mexico territory forced a Confederate retreat to Arizona. It has been dubbed the “Gettysburg of the West.”
Anaconda Plan
Ulysses Simpson Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
Battle of Glorieta Pass &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
An invasion by these peoples may have been one factor contributing to the collapse in the Late Bronze Age. For 10 points each:
Name this nomadic confederation that may have destroyed civilizations like the Mycenaean Greeks. They were sometimes referred to as Sherden pirates, referring to a theory that they originated from Sardinia.
A pharaoh of this name decisively defeated the Sea Peoples at the Battle of the Delta. An earlier “Great” pharaoh of this name built a temple complex at Abu Simbel (AA-boo SEEM-bel).
This other civilization in Asia Minor also declined as a result of the Sea Peoples. Ramses the Great decisively defeated this civilization at the Battle of Kadesh.
Sea Peoples
Ramses [or Ramesses; accept Ramses II or Ramses the Great or Ramses III or Ramesses II or Ramesses the Great or Ramesses III]
Hittites [or Hittite Empire] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Shahriar&gt; [Edited]
The creator of this alphabet claimed it was completely learnable by a wise man in a morning; part of its ease to learn comes from its consonants being shaped like a speaker’s mouth. For 10 points each:
Name this alphabet detailed in the Hunminjeongeum (hoon-meen jung-um). This alphabet can create symbols for syllables by combining letters in a block and has just about one letter per sound.
This king personally created Hangul to write Korean and patronized scientific advancements through his Hall of Worthies. This king is the only member of the Joseon (CHOH-sun) dynasty to be commonly called “the Great.”
Hangul replaced the hanja (HAN-ja) system, which was based on this logographic writing system. “Traditional” and “simplified” varieties of this writing system are used to write dialects like Mandarin and Cantonese.
Hangul [accept Chosŏngul; prompt on Korean alphabet]
Sejong the Great
Chinese characters [accept Classical Chinese characters or hànzì or báihuàwén] &lt;Mixed/Other — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This dictator supported the hijacking of Air France Flight 139. For 10 points each:
Name this President of Uganda from 1971 to 1979, who overthrew Milton Obote to gain power. As President, this person expelled thousands of Asians from his country.
In 1979, Idi Amin attempted to invade the Kagera region of this country, which led to his overthrow in a military operation authorized by this country’s president Julius Nyerere. This country is currently governed from Dodoma.
Idi Amin allowed the hijacked Air France flight 139 to land at this airport, which was later raided in Operation Thunderbolt to rescue the hostages from that flight. This airport is the principle international airport of Uganda.
Idi Amin Dada
United Republic of Tanzania
Entebbe Airport &lt;African History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This entity lost influence during the Thermidorian Reaction. For 10 points each:
Name this entity that formed the de facto French revolutionary government during the Reign of Terror. It was led by Maximilien Robespierre until his execution in 1794.
This moderate revolutionary fell out of favor with Robespierre after he opposed the Reign of Terror. This man would later be accused of taking bribes and embezzling diplomatic funds, and was executed by the regime.
Danton was also accused of directing the September Massacres of prisoners in this city. Revolutionaries installed a flame of reason in this city’s Notre Dame Cathedral.
Committee of Public Safety [or Comité de salut public]
Georges Jacques Danton
Paris &lt;European History — Athreya&gt; [Edited]
Louis Riel led an uprising of these people in the Red River Colony. For 10 points each:
Name these people, who were mixed-race descendants of aboriginal Canadians and European Settlers.
Many Métis were descendants of French settlers who worked as trappers in this industry. The primary objective of this industry in North America was the acquisition of beaver pelts.
The Red River Rebellion occupied areas of Prince Rupert’s Land, a territory under the control of a fur-trading company named for this explorer that controlled most of the North American fur trade from its Fort Vancouver.
Métis
fur trapping [or fur trading]
Henry Hudson [accept Hudson’s Bay Company] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Athreya&gt; [Edited]
Two sons of William the Conqueror, Richard of Normandy and William Rufus, were killed while hunting in this forest. For 10 points each:
Name this forest in Hampshire in the south of England.
New College is ironically one of the oldest colleges of this university, which is itself the oldest university in the English-speaking world. Scholars fleeing unrest at this university founded Cambridge University.
A city in the northwest of England on the Tyne River is named after a “new” one of these buildings which was built in 1080. British royal residences of this kind include one in Windsor and one named Balmoral in Scotland.
New Forest
University of Oxford [or Universitas Oxoniensis]
castle [accept Newcastle-upon-Tyne] &lt;Geography — Gray&gt; [Edited]
In this person’s trial, judge Ward Hunt directed the jury to deliver a guilty verdict without deliberation. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, who was not imprisoned to avoid a writ of habeas corpus after her trial in Rochester. She denounced her trial as not “having a jury not of my peers.”
The case brought against Anthony found her guilty of illegally performing this action. The suffrage movement fought to secure women the right to perform this action.
Anthony worked closely with this other suffragist, who wrote the Declaration of Sentiments read at the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention.
Susan B. Anthony [or the Susan B. Anthony trial or United States v. Susan B. Anthony]
voting [accept word forms like casting a vote]
Elizabeth Cady Stanton &lt;US History — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This country’s Fort St. Elmo was the home of the Knights Hospitaller. For 10 points each:
Name this country, where an Ottoman invasion was pushed back from taking Fort St. Elmo on the island of Gozo by Jean de Vallette.
This sultan, who was advised by Pargali Ibrahim Pasha, ordered the invasion and subsequent siege of Malta. He was given the epithet “The Magnificent.”
The Knights Hospitaller moved to Malta after being displaced from this island off the coast of Anatolia.
Malta
Suleiman the Magnificent
Rhodes &lt;European History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
Hōne Heke, a chieftain of these people, fought other tribes in a war named for weapons supplied by the British. For 10 points each:
Name these people who constructed hill forts called “pa” and fought a series of destructive intertribal conflicts known as the Musket Wars.
Hōne Heke supposedly signed the Treaty of Waitangi, the founding document of this country. The Maori are among the indigenous people of this country.
Hōne Heke provoked this conflict when he chopped down its namesake object from Maiki hill. Hōne Heke had earlier gifted that namesake object to James Busby, the first British Resident of New Zealand.
Maōri [accept Ngāpuhi iwi]
New Zealand [or Aotearoa]
Flagstaff War [or Northern War or First Maori War; prompt on Maori War] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Lin&gt; [Ed. Athreya]
This regime was put in place after the overthrow of the creator of the concept of NASAKOM. For 10 points each:
Name this anti-communist military regime whose leaders included Suharto. Many of this regime’s civilian politicians belonged to the Golkar political party.
The New Order came to power after a 1965 massacre of Communist Party members in this country which occurred on many of its islands, like Java and Sumatra.
Massacres of PKI members occurred after the failure of the 30th September movement, which aimed to overthrow this first President of Indonesia, who formulated the Pancasila.
New Order [or Orde Baru or Orba; do NOT accept or prompt on “Old Order” or “Orde Lama”]
Republic of Indonesia [or Republik Indonesia]
Sukarno [or Kusno Sosrodihardjo] &lt;World History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
This practice was opposed by Rodrigo da Silva, who authored a bill outlawing it. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, which was the backbone of the sugar industry in Brazil. It was ended by the Golden Law.
This Brazilian Emperor from the House of Braganza signed the Law of the Free Womb, the predecessor to the Golden Law. He was the last emperor of Brazil.
Pedro II’s support for the Colorado party in the Uruguayan civil war eventually led to this war, where dictator Francisco Solano Lopez was defeated at the battle of Cerro Corá.
slavery
Dom Pedro II
War of the Triple Alliance [or Paraguayan War] &lt;Latin American History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
The mural “My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love” depicting Erich Honecker and Leonid Brezhnev kissing was painted on this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this structure which fell after SED (S-E-D) spokesman Günter Schabowski (GIN-ter sha-BAO-ski) mistakenly said that a new travel law would be in effect “immediately, without delay.”
The Berlin Wall, which surrounded West Berlin, was constructed by this country to deter intellectuals from leaving it. It eventually reunified with its Western counterpart in 1990.
This East German secret police also attempted to prevent East German emigration. In 1990, its files were declassified and held in its namesake Records Agency.
Berlin Wall [or Anti-Fascist Protection Rampart or Wall of Shame]
East Germany [or German Democratic Republic, or GDR, or Deutsche Demokratische Republik or DDR; do NOT accept or prompt on “West Germany,” “Federal Republic of Germany,” or “Germany”]
Stasi [or Ministry of State Security or State Security Service] &lt;European History — Lin&gt; [Edited]
This man was part of an intelligence division known as Knowlton’s Rangers. For 10 points each:
Name this American spy executed by the British during the Revolutionary War. This man is attributed the quote, “I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country.”
Nathan Hale was executed in this U.S. city, which the British captured under William Howe in the Battle of Long Island. The Battle of Staten Island was a failed American attempt to take this city.
Along with John Sullivan, this general was in charge of troops at the Battle of Long Island. This general is said to have ordered “Do not fire until you see the whites of their eyes” to his men at the battle of Bunker Hill.
Nathan Hale
New York City [or NYC]
Israel Putnam &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This tax was first paid to a group of invaders after the Battle of Maldon. For 10 points each:
Name this tax, often running into the thousands of pounds of silver, which Anglo-Saxon kings would use to pay off invaders from Norway, Sweden, or Denmark.
This group of invaders from Scandinavia were often on the receiving end of the Danegeld. Their members included Harald Hardrada.
This king of England, known as “the unready,” paid the most in Danegeld before ordering the St. Brice’s day massacre in 1002. He would later be replaced by Cnut the Great.
Danegeld
Vikings [or Norsemen]
Aethelred the Unready [or Aethelred II] &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
This prime minister’s Midlothian Campaign denounced Benjamin Disraeli’s foreign policy. For 10 points each:
Name this liberal British prime minister, whose namesake form of liberalism shifted from austere economic policies to social liberalism. This prime minister was nicknamed the “Grand Old Man.”
As part of his foreign policy, Gladstone responded to the ‘Urabi revolt by ordering the bombing of the city of Alexandria in this country. That bombing was in order to protect the Suez Canal.
Gladstone’s government passed the third of these acts that increased and modernized the Parliamentary franchise. The first of these acts removed seats in Parliament from “rotten boroughs.”
William Ewart Gladstone
Khedivate of Egypt [or Hidiviyet-i Misir or Masr]
Reform Acts &lt;British/Commonwealth History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Athreya]
For 10 points each, answer the following about segregation in public transportation:
This person became the first woman to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda in 2005. In 1955, this NAACP secretary had been fined $10 for not relinquishing her seat for a white passenger in Birmingham.
Although Rosa Parks is credited for the Montgomery Bus Riots, this plaintiff of Browder v. Gayle was arrested nine months earlier for the same charge, but her actions were not publicized because she was pregnant as a teenager.
This group of civil rights activists rode interstate buses into the deep South to test local segregation ordinances in response to the rulings in Morgan v. Virginia and Boynton v. Virginia.
Rosa Parks [or Rosa Louise McCauley Parks]
Claudette Colvin
Freedom Riders &lt;US History — Lin&gt; [Edited]
The Kargil War took place over this disputed region. For 10 points each:
Name this former princely state west of Tibet disputed by three countries. Jammu is the winter capital in one part of this region, which is split by the Line of Control.
Lal Bahadur Shastri signed a treaty named for this city which led to a withdrawal of both Indian and Pakistani forces from Kashmir. At the time, this city was the capital of the Uzbek SSR.
This current Prime Minister of India recently repealed Kashmir’s autonomy and imposed martial law in the region, leading to heightened tensions with Pakistan.
Kashmir
Tashkent [or Tashkent Declaration]
Narendra Modi &lt;Asian History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This monarch was injured by a “Machine infernale” in a failed assassination attempt orchestrated by Guiseppe Marco Fieschi. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who was supported by the Orleanists. He was served by Francois Guizot and was called the “Citizen King.”
Louis Philippe was overthrown in the February Revolution, which took place in this year. This year was termed the “Spring of Nations” for the large number of revolutions that occurred in Europe during this year.
Louis Philippe was a member of the House of Bourbon, which ruled this country. Following the overthrow of Louis Philippe, Napoleon III was elected the first President of this country.
Louis Philippe I (loo-ee fi-leep)
1848 [prompt on ‘48]
Kingdom of France [or Royaume de France] &lt;European History — Hong&gt; [Edited]
Six initiatives, including a “Literacy Corps” to fulfill military service requirements, in this program were passed by a majority of 99% in a national referendum. For 10 points each:
Name this set of reforms bloodlessly enacted by prime minister Asadollah Alam under Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, which included massive land reform, secularization, and eventually women’s suffrage.
Mohammed Reza Pahlavi was the last shah of this Middle Eastern country. A 1979 revolution in this country made it an Islamic republic featured protests in its capital of Tehran.
The most prominent critic of the White Revolution was this cleric who would later be forced into exile. This cleric would later become the Supreme Leader of Iran after the Islamic Revolution.
White Revolution [or Enqelāb-e Sefid or Shah and People Revolution or Enqelāb-e Shāh o Mardom]
Iran [or Persia or Imperial State of Iran or Islamic Republic of Iran or Kešvare Šâhanšâhiye Irân or Jomhuri-ye Eslāmi-ye Irān]
Ayatollah Khomeini [or Sayyid Ruhollah Mūsavi Khomeini; prompt on the Ayatollah] &lt;Asian History — Gray&gt; [Edited]
One nickname for this man was coined by Paul Greenberg, who believed that this man was undoing the progress of his predecessors. For 10 points each:
Name this Democratic president from 1993 to 2001, whose national achievements include balancing the budget. His presidency was marred by the Whitewater scandal.
This former chancellor and president of Baylor University served as the special prosecutor during the Whitewater scandal. He investigated Clinton’s alleged perjury during the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
The Whitewater Development corporation was supposedly incorporated to develop real estate along the White River in this state. Clinton served as the governor of this state before running for president in 1992.
Bill Clinton [or William Jefferson Clinton] (That nickname was “Slick Willie.”)
Kenneth Starr [or Kenneth Winston Starr]
Arkansas &lt;US History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This man’s commander, Gaius Hostilius Mancinus, was stripped of his consulship after one affair where this man had negotiated with the Numantians over a safe return of Roman soldiers. For 10 points each:
Name this tribune of the people, a reformer and brother of Gaius, who was beaten to death with table legs on the Capitoline hill after his proposed Lex Agraria land reform bill failed.
The Capitoline Hill is at one end of this general area of Rome, where most of the politics of the day took place. The arch of Titus leads into this area, which contains the temple of Diana.
Tiberius Gracchus was killed by members of this governing body whose members included Nasica, the principal opponent to Tiberius Gracchus. The motto of Rome was “[this body] and the people of Rome.”
Tiberius Gracchus [prompt on Gracchus; do NOT accept or prompt on “Gaius Gracchus”]
Roman Forum
the Senate [accept Senatus Populusque Romanus] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
This weapon made its debut in one war at the battle of Sluys, where ships full of soldiers with this weapon routed enemy crossbowmen. For 10 points each:
Name this weapon, which could fire at a rate nearly thrice as fast as a crossbow. Men who used this weapon routed opponents at the battle of Agincourt.
This war featured victories of English longbowmen at the battles of Agincourt and Crécy. This war pitted France against England and lasted for a little more than a century before the crowning of Charles VI.
Crossbowmen from this port city were routed at the battle of Crécy by English longbowmen due to a lack of protective armor. This rival of Venice sided with France during the Hundred Years’ War.
longbow [accept English longbowmen; prompt on bow or bow and arrow, do NOT accept or prompt on “recurve bow”]
Hundred Years’ War
Genoa [or Genova or Zêna] &lt;European History — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. Iyer]
This conflict began after the death of the sickly king Charles II. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict in which the Habsburg and Bourbon dynasties fought for the throne of a namesake country.
Along with the Duke of Marlborough, this president of the Imperial Council led the Grand Alliance against France during the War of the Spanish Succession.
The Duke of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy led troops at the battle of Blenheim, where they were able to save this city on the Danube from French forces. This Hapsburg stronghold would later serve as the capital of the Austrian Empire.
War of the Spanish Succession [do NOT accept or prompt on “Queen Anne’s War”]
Prince Eugene Francis of Savoy-Carignano [accept Eugène François or Eugen Franz or Eugenio Francesco]
Vienna [or Wien] &lt;European History — Athreya&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the Xiōngnú (shyung-noo):
Historian Étienne de la Vaissière argued that the Xiōngnú were the origin of these people. These nomadic people were defeated at the Battle of Châlons by a Roman-Visigoth alliance.
The theory that the Huns originated from the Xiōngnú was popularized by this other historian. This historian also wrote The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
This structure was built to keep the Xiōngnú from invading China. Contrary to popular belief, this structure cannot be seen from space.
Huns
Edward Gibbon
Great Wall of China [or Wànlǐ Chángchéng] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Hong&gt; [Edited]
This leader formed an undercover death squad known as the Tonton Macoute. For 10 points each:
Name this former physician who became the president of Haiti in 1959. This leader ordered all black dogs to be killed, believing a political opponent had transformed into one.
Duvalier became president after a series of coups that started with this country’s 19-year occupation of Haiti. Duvalier claimed that the assassination of this country’s president John F. Kennedy was due to a curse he placed on him.
Duvalier believed himself to be one of these spirits of Voodoo. These spirits were often syncretized with Catholic saints.
Francois Duvalier [or Papa Doc; prompt on Duvalier or Doc]
United States of America [or America or USA or U. S.]
loas &lt;Latin American History — Athreya&gt; [Edited]
This tribe was required to leave one territory after the Treaty of Moultrie (“mole-tree”) Creek. For 10 points each:
Name this tribe that fought three namesake wars against the United States under the leadership of Osceola (aw-see-OH-luh).
This 1819 treaty between the United States and Spain established US ownership over the Florida territory.
This president forcibly removed the Seminoles from their territory, along with the other four “Civilized Tribes.” This president signed the Indian Removal Act shortly after his election in 1832, leading to the Trail of Tears.
Seminoles
Adams-Onís Treaty [or Onís-Adams Treaty]
Andrew Jackson &lt;US History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
Bernie Sanders’s plan with this name aims to reduce carbon emissions from electricity production and transportation to zero by 2030 while eliminating unemployment completely. For 10 points each:
Give this name of many hazily-defined environmental plans. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ed Markey sponsored respective House and Senate resolutions requiring the implementation of a plan of this name.
This predominantly youthful environmental movement backs the Green New Deal. A November 2018 sit-in in Nancy Pelosi’s office led by this group helped bring it to prominence.
This climate activist who became famous for skipping school to protest outside the Swedish parliament sailed across the Atlantic in August 2019 to attend the UN Climate Action Summit.
Green New Deal
Sunrise Movement
Greta Thunberg &lt;Current Events — Gray&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the general Belisarius:
Belisarius spearheaded the reconquest of Ostrogothic Italy under this Byzantine Emperor, who was denoted “the Great.” He is best known for his namesake legal code, which revised and clarified centuries of previous Roman law.
Belisarius put down the Nika (NAI-kuh) Riots, which were sparked by the Blues and the Greens, factions that supported participants in these events. These events took place in the Hippodrome and often involved vehicles called quadriga.
At the Battle of Dara, Belisarius defeated forces under this empire, who were known for their heavy armored horsemen called cataphracts. Later, the Byzantine Empire established the Eternal Peace with its leader Khosrau I (KHOO-shuh-roo “the first”).
Justinian I [or Justinian the Great or Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Iustinianus Augustus]
chariot races
Sassanids [or Sasanian Empire] &lt;Ancient/Classical History — Hong&gt; [Edited]
This event began when the offices of Rabochi Put were forced to close. For 10 points each:
Name this event which ended when the Aurora fired a blank shot to signal the capture of the Winter Palace. John Reed chronicled this event in his eyewitness account, Ten Days that Shook the World.
This leader of the Bolsheviks became the first leader of the Soviet Union after the October Revolution. He was succeeded by Joseph Stalin.
This leader of the Red Army during the October Revolution was killed using an ice pick in 1940 by Ramon Mercader.
October Revolution [or Bolshevik Revolution; prompt on November Revolution; prompt on Russian Revolution; do NOT accept or prompt on “February Revolution”]
Vladimir Iliyich Lenin [or Vladimir Iliyich Ulyanov]
Leon Trotsky [or Lev Davidovich Bronstein] &lt;World History — Iyer&gt; [Edited]
The Jiaqing (ja-cheeng) Emperor’s refusal to recognize this country as the successor of the ancient Nanyue Kingdom resulted in its modern name. For 10 points each:
Name this country home to the Le and Nguyen (nwin) Dynasties that governed from this country’s modern day city of Hue. In later years, this country was led from Hanoi.
Long before the Jiaqing Emperor’s refusal, these two sisters led a rebellion against their Han Chinese occupiers. They are considered the national heroines of Vietnam.
This man ordered three failed invasions of the Tran Dynasty’s Dai Viet state, one of which was led by his son Toghan. The invasions of Japan he ordered also resulted in failure due to divine winds or kamikaze.
Vietnam [accept Namviet]
Trung sisters [or Tru’ng Trắc and Tru’ng Nhi]
Kublai Khan [or Hubilie; accept Emperor Shizu of Yuan] &lt;Asian History — Iyer/Ma&gt; [Ed. Ma]
Adam Hochschild wrote a book titled for this king’s <em>Ghost</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Belgian king who personally owned the Congo Free State. The atrocities of this king’s Force Publique against the Congo’s people resulted in him being forced to turn it over to the Belgian government in 1908.
During World War I, forces from the Belgian Congo invaded modern-day Rwanda and Burundi, which were part of this empire’s East African holdings. This empire lost its African holdings following its defeat in World War I.
After the Congo gained independence from Belgium in 1960, this first Congolese prime minister gave a scathing, critical speech at the ceremony. Belgian-supported Katangan secessionists killed this man in 1961.
Leopold II [Prompt on King Leopold]
German Empire [Accept Germany and Second Reich]
Patrice Lumumba [or Patrice Hemery Lumumba] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
A group of economic advisors who implemented neoliberal policies in this country were known as the Chicago Boys. For 10 points each:
Name this country, where a 1973 coup forced Salvador Allende to commit suicide with an AK-47, allowing Augusto Pinochet to take power in Santiago.
The head of Pinochet’s DINA secret police, Manuel Contreras, was the mastermind of this program of CIA- backed state terrorism in South America. Jorge Videla led the Dirty War in Argentina as part of this initiative.
Phase III of Operation Condor included the assassination of this diplomat and his colleagues from the Institute for Policy Studies. That car bombing was the only act of state-sponsored terrorism to occur in Washington, D.C.
Republic of Chile [or República de Chile]
Operation Condor [or Plan Cóndor]
Orlando Letelier [or Marcos Orlando Letelier del Solar] &lt;JG, World History&gt;
This practice is the subject of <em>Daemonologie</em>, a treatise that Shakespeare likely used as a source while writing <em>Macbeth</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, which is also the subject of Heinrich Kremer’s Malleus Maleficarum. Matthew Hopkins, who hunted people accused of this crime, popularized the “swimming test” and “pricking test” used in those hunts.
Hopkins’s book The Discovery of Witches influenced witch hunts in New England, including in this Massachusetts town. Cotton Mather argued for the use of “spectral evidence” in namesake witch trials in this town.
Christian IV, a monarch of this country, oversaw many witch burnings, including that of Maren Spliid. Christian also oversaw this nation’s entry in the Thirty Years War, which was ended by the Treaty of Lubeck.
witchcraft [prompt on magic or sorcery]
Salem Town [or Salem Village; or Salem Witch Trials]
Denmark [or Denmark-Norway] &lt;TB, European/British History&gt;
The Treaty of Rhandeia dictated that this country would be ruled by a Parthian of the Arsacid dynasty, but only with the approval of the Roman emperor. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman client kingdom, whose ruler Tiridates III converted it to a certain religion in 301.
Under Tiridates III, Armenia became the first country to adopt this faith as its official religion. Sects of this religion include Orthodox and Catholicism.
Christianity was brought to Armenia by a patron saint of this name, known as “the Illuminator.” A pope with this name is the namesake of a style of monophonic chant.
Kingdom of Armenia [or Armeniya; or Hayastan; or Hayastani Hanrepetut’yun]
Christianity
St. Gregory [accept St. Gregory the Illuminator or Gregory I or St. Gregory the Great] &lt;JG, Ancient/Other History&gt;
Answer the following about Hull House, a settlement house that was a hub of social reform in the early 20th century, for 10 points each:
This American reformer founded Hull House with Ellen Starr as a “community of university women,” who would teach classes to working-class people. She was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1931.
Hull House was located in this most populous Illinois city, where the Haymarket Square riot occurred after police killed two McCormick Harvesting workers striking for an eight-hour day.
Hull House was located in an ethnic neighborhood with this nickname centered on Taylor Street. Jacob Riis photographed several New York slums along Mulberry Street in an immigrant neighborhood with this nickname.
Jane Addams
Chicago
Little Italy [or Piccola Italia] &lt;TB, American History&gt;
A rebellion led by miners of this resource used the password “Vinegar Hill,” and was sparked by the rejection of demands made by the Ballarat Reform League. For 10 points each:
Name this valuable resource, the subject of a rebellion led by miners in the Eureka Stockade. This resource was the subject of “rushes,” such as in Clunes and Bendigo, in the 1850s.
The Eureka Stockade Rebellion took place in this country. In this country, Frank Gardiner robbed 2,400 ounces from the Lachlan Gold Escort in New South Wales.
During the Eureka Rebellion, one of these institutions run by James Bentley was burned. Paul Rusesabagina sheltered thousands of refugees from the Interahamwe militia in one of these institutions during the Rwandan Genocide.
gold [accept aurum]
Commonwealth of Australia
hotels &lt;AN, World History&gt;
A rudimentary version of this structure was proposed in “Operation Mouse-Hole,” and this structure was named one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World by the American Society of Civil Engineers. For 10 points each:
Name this structure, which runs underneath a namesake body of water near the Strait of Dover, creating the only permanent link between Great Britain and continental Europe.
This longest-serving president of France was in office for all of the Chunnel’s construction. This Socialist, a rival of Charles de Gaulle, also approved many expensive “Grands Projets” for cultural monuments in Paris.
Migrants have often used the Chunnel to illegally enter the U.K., departing from refugee camps like this French city’s namesake “Jungle.” During the Hundred Years War, this city fell under English control until it was retaken in 1558.
Channel Tunnel [or Chunnel; or Le tunnel sur la Manche]
François Mitterrand [or François Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand]
Calais [or Calais Jungle] &lt;TB, European/British History&gt;
At a funeral for victims of the La Coubre explosion, this man was photographed by Albert Korda in “Guerrillero Heroico.” For 10 points each:
Name this Argentine Marxist, the author of The Motorcycle Diaries, who aided revolutionary movements worldwide, most notably with the Castro brothers in Cuba.
Guevara’s distrust of the United States was amplified by the 1954 overthrow of this president of Guatemala. This man was overthrown in the CIA Operation PBSUCCESS after angering members of the United Fruit Company.
Che was ultimately killed in this country while leading the Nancahuazu Guerillas. Coca farmer and Aymara activist Evo Morales led protests in this country against the American War on Drugs in the 1980s and 1990s.
“Che” Guevara [or Ernesto Guevara de la Serna]
Jacobo Arbenz [or Juan Jacobo Arbenz Guzman]
Plurinational State of Bolivia [or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia; or Republic of Bolivia; or Republica de Bolivia] &lt;AN, World History&gt;
Answer the following about the abolition of slavery throughout the world. For 10 points each:
This dynasty abolished slavery in Korea as part of the Gabo Reforms in 1894. This dynasty declared Korea an empire in 1897; however, it would be annexed to the Japanese empire in 1910.
This country abolished slavery in 1888 with the Golden Law under its emperor Pedro II. This country’s monarchy was overthrown the next year and replaced with a republic ruled from Rio de Janeiro.
Slavery was abolished by the government of Hong Xiuquan during this rebellion against the Qing Dynasty. This rebellion was ended with the assistance of General Charles “Chinese” Gordon and the Ever-Victorious Army.
Joseon Dynasty
Empire of Brazil [or Brasil; or Federative Republic of Brazil; or Republica Federativa do Brasil; or Vera Cruz]
Taiping Rebellion [or Taiping Tianguo] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
This kingdom’s final ruler was Boabdil. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom ruled by the Nasrid Dynasty, which was the last of the Muslim kingdoms to fall to the Christians in the Iberian Peninsula. This kingdom surrendered to Christian forces in 1492.
The fall of Granada finally ended this 780-year period in Spanish history, which saw Christian kingdoms slowly retake Muslim-controlled territory. It began with the Battle of Covadonga in 722 CE.
These two Spanish monarchs were in power when Granada fell in 1492, ending the Reconquista. These rulers, who unified Spain through their marriage, issued the Alhambra Decree and sponsored Columbus’ voyages.
Kingdom of Granada
Reconquista [or Reconquest]
Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile [prompt on partial answer] &lt;GP, European/British History&gt;
During the Mueller hearings, a congressman from this state declared that while President Trump wasn’t above the law, he “shouldn’t be below it.” For 10 points each:
Name this home state of John Ratcliffe. Other representatives from this state include Joaquin Castro and Veronica Escobar, who succeeded Beto O’Rourke as congresswoman.
John Ratcliffe was briefly nominated for this cabinet-level position, although he later withdrew due to a lack of qualifications. Ratcliffe would’ve replaced former senator Dan Coats in this position.
Texas congressman Louie Gohmert used Mueller’s prosecution, and subsequent jailing of, this former Trump campaign chairman as an example of parent/child separation, which is something that happens “every single day.”
Texas
Director of National Intelligence
Paul Manafort &lt;AN, Current Events&gt;
This person announced her candidacy for a house seat in New Mexico in May 2019. For 10 points each:
Name this former CIA agent, who had her position leaked by Robert Novak after her husband, Joseph Wilson, investigated claims that Iraq had purchased uranium from Niger.
During the Plame Affair, Scooter Libby was convicted of lying to investigators. Libby is better known for working as the chief of staff for this then-vice president, who shot a guy in the face while quail hunting.
The Plame Affair occurred during the administration of this 43rd President, who authorized the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan during the War on Terror in the first decade of the 2000s.
Valerie Plame [or Valerie Elise Plame Wilson]
Richard Bruce Cheney [or Dick Cheney]
George Walker Bush [prompt on Bush; do NOT accept “George H.W. Bush;” accept any answers along the lines of Bush the son or the younger Bush] &lt;WG, American History&gt;
This group was targeted by the Frame-Breaking Act and claimed to follow a namesake leader, also nicknamed “King Ned.” For 10 points each:
Name this group of textile workers, who destroyed technologically advanced automated looms as a form of protest.
The Luddite movement began in Nottingham in this country, where agricultural workers broke new threshing machines during the “Swing Riots” in counties like Sussex and Kent.
The Luddite movement was a response to this general cultural shift in England, which was driven by new machines like James Watt’s steam engine and a shift from cottage industries to large-scale factory production.
Luddites [prompt on Ned Ludd, King Ludd, or General Ludd]
United Kingdom [or Great Britain; or England]
Industrial Revolution &lt;TB, European/British History&gt;
Ronald Reagan gave the “A Time for Choosing” speech in support of this politician. For 10 points each:
Name this Arizona ultra-conservative, who claimed that “extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice.” This man lost the 1964 presidential election to Lyndon Johnson.
This conservative thinker used his magazine The National Review to mobilize support for Goldwater. This man appeared alongside Gore Vidal in a series of televised debates in 1968.
This politician succeeded Goldwater in his Arizona senate seat. This “Maverick” lost the 2008 presidential election to Barack Obama and died in 2018.
Barry Goldwater [or Barry Morris Goldwater]
William Buckley [or Bill Buckley; or William Francis Buckley Jr.]
John McCain [or John Sidney McCain III] &lt;WG, American History&gt;
This man was a member of the powerful Alcmaeonid family, and some of his policy decisions were influenced by his mistress, Aspasia of Miletus. For 10 points each:
Name this statesman of the Golden Age of Athens, who coined the phrase “equal justice under law” in a Funeral Oration that claimed “famous men have the whole earth as their memorial.”
Pericles gave that eulogy for the soldiers who died in the first of these wars. The first of these wars was ended by the Peace of Nicias after the Athenian fleet was destroyed by the Spartans at Aegospotami.
The Alcmaeonid family also included this politician, who switched sides several times during the Peloponnesian War. He mutilated hermai statues during a disastrous expedition to Sicily.
Pericles
Peloponnesian Wars [accept First Peloponnesian War]
Alcibiades &lt;JG, Ancient/Other History&gt;
This man’s first successful business venture was a precursor to the Staten Island Ferry. For 10 points each:
Name this industrialist, who fought against James Fisk and Jay Gould for control of one asset in the “Erie War.”
Vanderbilt’s domination of this industry involved strategically closing the Hudson River Bridge to shut out competitors. Vanderbilt also financed the construction of Grand Central Depot for this industry.
The chief rival of Vanderbilt’s New York Central Railroad was a company named for this state, run by Thomas A. Scott. That company built several terminals named for this state, including one in New York City.
Cornelius Vanderbilt
railroads [accept equivalents like railways; accept trains or locomotives]
Pennsylvania [or the Pennsylvania Railroad] &lt;JG, American History&gt;
Answer the following about planned communities in the United States. For 10 points each:
In 1943, the U.S. government designed towns at several top-secret sites, including Richland, Washington and Los Alamos, New Mexico, to house workers associated with this project.
Seven planned communities with this name were built after World War II to house veterans. The first of these communities, located in Nassau County, New York, is considered the first mass-produced suburb.
The Villages, a planned retirement town in this state, is often designated one of America’s fastest-growing cities. This state is also home to Coral Gables and Opa-locka, two 1920s-era planned suburbs of Miami.
Manhattan Project [accept Manhattan District; or Development of Substitute Materials]
Levittown(s) [accept William Levitt, Alfred Levitt, or Levitt &amp; Sons]
Florida &lt;TB, American History&gt;
One siege of this city was repulsed with the help of Khan Tervel. For 10 points each:
Name this city, which was unsuccessfully besieged by the Arabs under Maslama ibn Abd-al Malik from 717-718. This capital city of the Byzantine Empire defeated an earlier Arab siege in the 670s.
The Byzantines defeated another siege of Constantinople in 860 from this state. This state, ruled from the capital of modern Ukraine, was later converted to Orthodox Christianity during the reign of Vladimir the Great.
During both the Rus’ and Arab sieges of Constantinople, the Byzantines employed this liquid weapon to set enemy ships alight. This substance burned under water and could be fired from a nozzle or used in a grenade.
Constantinople [do NOT accept “Istanbul”]
Kievan Rus’
Greek fire &lt;GP, European/British History&gt;
Answer the following about some of the Revolutions of 1848. For 10 points each:
This French monarch from the House of Orléans was forced to abdicate and flee the country in February of 1848. This monarch himself came to power in the July Revolution of 1830 and was dubbed the “Citizen-King.”
The 13 Martyrs of Arad were executed during this country’s 1848 revolution against Austrian rule. Lajos Kossuth was declared leader of this country, which united with Austria in a dual monarchy in 1867.
The Revolutions of 1848 shattered the delicate Concert of Europe established by this Austrian statesman to restore the European balance of power at the Congress of Vienna, which this leader hosted.
Louis-Philippe I [Do NOT accept or prompt on “Louis” or “Philippe”]
Kingdom of Hungary [or Magyarorszag; or the Austro-Hungarian Empire]
Klemens von Metternich &lt;GP, European/British History&gt;
This empire had two elite military units called the Jaguar and Eagle warriors. For 10 points each:
Name this empire centered on the city of Tenochtitlan that controlled much of the Valley of Mexico. This empire’s people were organised into calpulli and they cultivated food in gardens called chinampas.
The Aztecs fought rivals such as Tlaxcala and Cholulain in these ritual wars. The prisoners procured during these wars were used for human sacrifices.
An Aztec emperor of this name carried out expeditions against the Mixtecs and began the Flower Wars. The second emperor of this name was taken prisoner and killed by the Spanish under Hernán Cortes.
Aztec Empire
Flower Wars [accept Flowery Wars]
Moctezuma [accept Moctezuma I, Moctezuma II, Montezuma, Montezuma I, or Montezuma II] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
A 2019 prank saw impersonators of this leader and Kim Jong-un meeting in Hong Kong and enjoying a dinner of Jollibee’s fried chicken. For 10 points each.
Name this former Davao City mayor and current Philippine president. This advocate for the “Build, Build, Build Program” has gained international attention for his harsh War on Drugs.
China rejected a 2016 Philippine arbitration victory concerning territorial claims in this body of water. China’s continued presence in this sea, amid promises of investment in the Philippines, is seen by Duterte’s opponents as him being “duped.”
Chinese claims in the South China Sea center on the “Nine Dash Line,” a border originally created in 1947 by this island nation with capital Taipei. China added a 10th line to incorporate this island into its claim in 2013.
Rodrigo Duterte
South China Sea [accept West Philippine Sea]
Taiwan [or Republic of China or ROC; or Formosa; or Zhōnghuá Mínguó; do NOT accept nor prompt on “China” or “People’s Republic of China”] &lt;DB, Current Events&gt;
Answer the following about geographic locations that have recently changed names. For 10 points each:
This planned capital city of Kazakhstan changed its name in March of 2019 following a unanimous vote. It now shares its name with one of its former presidents, who resigned just four days before the name change. The current and former names are both acceptable.
In 2018, Macedonia agreed to change its name to North Macedonia at the Prespa Agreement, ending a 27-year naming dispute with this country that borders Macedonia to the south.
In 2018, this city was renamed by the BJP party, which has undertaken a recent campaign to rename Indian cities with names of Muslim origin. This city, which is located at the confluence of the Ganges and Yamuna Rivers, is one of four main sites for the Kumbh Mela pilgrimage. The current and former names are both acceptable.
Nursultan [or Astana]
Greece [or the Hellenic Republic; accept Hellas]
Allahabad [or Prayagraj; or Illahabad] &lt;JL, Geography&gt;
William Brydon was the sole survivor of a retreat made from this city to Jalalabad. For 10 points each:
Name this city ruled by leaders such as Shah Shujah Durrani. William Elphinstone’s forces were massacred while retreating from this city in 1842.
Elphinstone’s retreat from Kabul occurred during the first of the wars between Britain and this nation. Geopolitical tensions between the British and Russian Empires over this nation were known as the Great Game.
During the Great Game, the British Empire tried to strengthen relations with this empire, led by Ranjit Singh. This empire’s Dal Khalsa Army fought a series of wars against the Durrani Empire.
Kabul
Afghanistan [or Da Afghanestan Jamhawriyat; or Dowlat-e Eslami-ye Afghanestan; or the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan; or the Islamic State of Afghanistan; or Jomhuri-ye Afghanestan; or Republic of Afghanistan]
Sikh Empire &lt;AN, World History&gt;
NOTE TO MODERATOR: Please do not reveal alternate prompts or answers to the first part of the bonus, as that will spoil the second part. Thanks! William Gaud coined the term for this movement. For 10 points each:
Name this global revolution during the late 1950s and 1960s, which saw increased crop production in the developing world with new technologies. Norman Borlaug was a key figure in this revolution.
The Green Revolution was the third revolution in this practice, the production of plant-based food. The first revolution of this practice saw humans abandon hunting and gathering in favor of this practice.
The Green Revolution saw higher-yielding variants of this crop like IR8 be introduced in India and the Philippines, respectively. The early 2000s saw the introduction of a vitamin A-rich “golden” type of this crop.
Green Revolution [accept but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL Third Agricultural Revolution; prompt on but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL “Agricultural Revolution”]
agriculture [accept Agricultural Revolution]
rice [or golden rice] &lt;GP Ancient/Other History&gt;
Rudolf von Gneist helped create a new constitution during this period. For 10 points each:
Name this period in Japanese history following the end of the Tokugawa Shogunate. This period is named for an emperor whose reign saw a resurgence of imperial power.
Meiji and the imperial government rose to power during this year-long war against the Tokugawa. The Republic of Ezo emerged during this war on Hokkaido to fight the imperial forces,
During the Boshin War, the Tokugawa forces were trained by men from this country like Andre Cazanueve and Jules Brunet. This country and Spain invaded Vietnam in the Cochinchina Campaign a couple of years prior.
Meiji Restoration
Boshin War
France [Accept the French Empire or Second French Empire; or Republique Francaise] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
The plaintiff of this case married Harriett Robinson while living at Fort Snelling in the Wisconsin territory. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial case, which ruled the namesake slave could not sue for freedom, even after living in a free state, as he had no constitutional rights.
The Dred Scott case overturned this legislation by which the namesake state and Maine gained statehood. This legislation set the boundary between free and slave states at the thirty-six thirty parallel.
In Plessy v. Ferguson, this justice claimed that the decision would become as “pernicious” as the Dred Scott case. This “Great Dissenter” was the lone dissent against Plessy’s ruling.
Dred Scott v. (John) Sandford [or Dred Scott v Sandford; accept “the Dred Scott case;” or “the Dred Scott decision;” or Dred Scott v. Sanford]
Missouri Compromise
John Marshall Harlan [do NOT accept “John Marshall Harlan II”] &lt;AN, American History&gt;
Conflict during this time period was agitated by several “false Dmitris” claiming to be heirs to the empire. For 10 points each:
Name this time period that began with the death of Feodor I, after which Boris Godunov took the throne. Ivan Susanin legendarily gave his life to help a ruler seize the throne and end this period in 1615.
Mikhail I, who ended the Time of Troubles, was the first member of this Russian dynasty of tsars. This dynasty’s last ruler, Nicholas II, was killed with his family during the Russian Revolution.
Boris Godunov began war with this nation during the Time of Troubles to expand his territory westward. In a later war, this nation won the Battle of Narva over Russia, but was crushingly defeated at the Battle of Poltava.
Time of Troubles [or Smutnoye Vremya]
House of Romanov
Kingdom of Sweden [or Sverige; or Svithiod] &lt;ES, European/British History&gt;
This country’s southern expansion was led by General Julio Roca. For 10 points each:
Roca led this country’s Conquest of the Desert against the indigenous peoples in its region of Patagonia. Large numbers of European settlers, such as the Welsh, came to the new territories this country acquired.
Chile pursued a similar policy of expansion and primarily fought against this native tribe. This native tribe had earlier killed the conquistador Pedro de Valdivia in the 1550s.
The Mapuche frequently stole this commodity from both Argentine and Chilean ranchers to exchange for weapons and alcohol. In the American west, this animal was frequently stolen by rustlers.
Argentina [accept Argentine Republic]
Mapuche
cattle [or cows] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
Though he lived on Standing Rock Reservation, this man went on tour with Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Show, giving Annie Oakley the nickname “Little Sure Shot.” For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Hunkpapa Lakota and ally of Crazy Horse. He and his son surrendered to U.S. forces at Fort Buford, which he had attacked years earlier during Red Cloud’s War.
Before this battle, Sitting Bull had a vision of soldiers falling like grasshoppers into his camp. At this battle, the forces of Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse routed the 7th Cavalry of George Armstrong Custer.
Sitting Bull was killed while being arrested for his ties with this spiritual movement, whose members believed that their wakan shirts could stop bullets. Many of its members were killed at the Wounded Knee Massacre.
Sitting Bull [or Tȟatȟáŋka Íyotake]
Battle of the Little Bighorn [or Battle of the Greasy Grass; prompt on Custer’s Last Stand]
Ghost Dance Movement [or Nanissáanah] &lt;JG, American History&gt;
This ethnicity was targeted by riots in Vancouver in 1886. For 10 points each:
Name this Asian ethnicity, which originally came to Canada to mine gold and then work on railroads. Attempts to limit their immigration to Canada included the placing of a head tax in 1885 and an outright ban in 1923.
This other Asian ethnic group also faced discrimination in Canada, with 22,000 of them being placed into internment camps during World War II. A similar policy was enacted against this ethnic group in the United States.
This Liberal prime minister enacted the internment policy of Japanese-Canadians. This longest serving prime minister in Canadian history had his request to dissolve Parliament refused in 1926, sparking a constitutional crisis.
Chinese-Canadians
Japanese-Canadians
William Lyon Mackenzie King &lt;GP, World History&gt;
George Lambert helped provoke the second war between Britain and this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which fought three wars against the British Empire, culminating in the capture and looting of Mandalay. This country had previously been ruled by the Konbaung Dynasty.
British colonial expansion in Southeast Asia also saw the establishment of this city-sized island as a colony by Stamford Raffles. The Imperial Japanese Army forced Arthur Percival to surrender this British colony in 1942.
The British also had a protectorate over this Southeast Asian kingdom, which the Brooke family governed as the White Rajahs. It shares its name with a state of East Malaysia.
Myanmar [Accept Burma]
Singapore
Kingdom of Sarawak &lt;GP, World History&gt;
Answer the following about the history of medieval navies. For 10 points each:
The naval history of the Ming Dynasty saw this man lead seven treasure voyages around the Indian Ocean. This Muslim captain defeated the pirate Chen Zuyi and brought exotic animals from Africa to the Chinese court.
This empire’s monarch Abubakari II led a fleet of 200 ships to sail across the Atlantic Ocean, though they never returned. His successor Mansa Musa became this empire’s most famous ruler after his extravagant 1324 hajj.
Eustace the Monk was a naval commander for these two European nations in the early 13th century. These two countries later fought the naval battles of Arnemuiden and Sluys in the 14th century.
Zheng He [accept Cheng Mao or Ma He]
Mali Empire
Kingdom of England AND Kingdom of France [prompt on an answer of only one country] &lt;GP, Ancient/Other History&gt;
This plan was scrapped after Owen Roberts joined the majority ruling for <em>West Coast Hotel v Parrish</em>, deemed “the switch in time that saved nine.” For 10 points each:
Name this plan, whereby a president would have added more seats to a certain body in order to increase the chance of his legislation passing through.
This President proposed the court packing scheme in his ninth fireside chat. He would later lead the United States through the majority of World War II,
West Coast Hotel v. Parrish also ended an era named for this court case. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes’s dissent in this case discussed Herbert Spencer’s Social Statics.
court-packing plan [accept descriptions that involve packing the Supreme Court; accept Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937]
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
Lochner v. New York &lt;AN, American History&gt;
After German paratroopers rescued this man from captivity in the Gran Sasso raid, he led a puppet government based in Salò. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was known as “Il Duce” while ruling as the dictator of Italy. He edited the socialist newspaper Avanti! before adopting fascism and leading the blackshirts.
Mussolini served as prime minister under the third monarch of this name. The second monarch with this name became the first king of unified Italy during the premiership of the Count of Cavour.
Mussolini ordered an invasion of Albania that placed Victor Emmanuel III on the throne and deposed this king. He is said to have survived at least 55 assassination attempts during his reign.
Benito Mussolini [or Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini]
Victor Emmanuel [accept Victor Emmanuel II or Victor Emmanuel III]
Zogu I [or King Zog; or Ahmet Muhtar Zogolli] &lt;JG, European/British History&gt;
Presidential Candidate Pete Buttigieg has accused this organization of creating a “false god.” For 10 points each:
Name this gun rights advocacy group. Its current president, Carolyn Meadows, was voted in as this organization’s president after Oliver North was forced out following a struggle over financial woes.
This man has served as both the CEO and Executive Vice President of the NRA since 1991. Recently he has faced controversy for spending $70,000 from the NRA on a consultant when purchasing a house.
This woman serves as the spokesperson for the NRA. She also is a former writer and editor for Breitbart and hosted her namesake show on TheBlaze TV.
NRA [or National Rifle Association]
Wayne LaPierre [or Wayne Robert LaPierre Jr.]
Dana Loesch [or Dana Lynn Loesch] &lt;WG, Current Events&gt;
The Aksumite city of Koloe has been described as the first trading station for this good. For 10 points each:
Name this luxury item often derived from elephant tusks, which was prized in the ancient world for carving.
In a symbolic move, this country’s president Daniel arap Moi burned its ivory stockpiles. Wangari Maathai was an environmental activist in this country opposed to Moi’s dictatorial government.
This Southern African country was opposed to restrictions on the ivory trade under its former president, Robert Mugabe. This country was known as Rhodesia while ruled by a white minority.
ivory
Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri Ya Kenya]
Republic of Zimbabwe &lt;GP, World History&gt;
This group met Toussaint Charbonneau while camping at Fort Mandan, and they began their return journey after wintering at Fort Clatsop. For 10 points each:
Name this expedition, led by two men and guided by the Shoshone Sacagawea, that travelled along the Missouri River to explore the new territories gained from the Louisiana Purchase.
Fort Clatsop was constructed by the Corps of Discovery in this state. This state’s Willamette Valley became home to many settlers who had travelled westward from Independence, Missouri.
The final report of the Corps of Discovery’s expedition was written by this man, although his name was later removed. This man served as the final head of the Second Bank of the United States.
Lewis and Clark Expedition [accept Corps of Discovery Expedition]
Oregon
Nicholas Biddle &lt;AN, American History&gt;
Answer the following about Polynesian kingdoms. For 10 points each:
This Polynesian kingdom was united by Kamehameha the Great in the early 19th century. This kingdom’s final ruler was Lili’uokalani [lily-u-oh-kah-lah-nee] before it was annexed by the US, becoming the 50th state.
This kingdom was founded by Pomare I and controlled much of the Society Islands and surrounding archipelagos. This kingdom was eventually conquered by the French, and is still under French control today.
The Pacific islands were hit hard by this pandemic, including Tonga, whose king died a result of it. This pandemic was a global outbreak of H1N1, coinciding with the end of the First World War.
Kingdom of Hawai’i
Kingdom of Tahiti
Spanish Flu Pandemic of 1918 [Accept Flu Pandemic of 1918 or influenza in place of “flu”, prompt on partial answers] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
After enduring a disastrous first day at this battle, Ulysses Grant supposedly quipped “Lick ‘em tomorrow, though.” For 10 points each:
Name this two-day Civil War battle, which began with a surprise attack from Corinth by Albert Sidney Johnston and P.G.T. Beauregard. This battle saw heavy fighting at a sunken road called the Hornet’s Nest.
This Union officer sent reinforcements to the wrong location on the first day of Shiloh, leading to him being removed from Grant’s army. This officer later governed New Mexico and wrote Ben-Hur.
The Battle of Shiloh was fought in this state, where Grant fought the Chattanooga Campaign.
Battle of Shiloh [or Pittsburg Landing]
Lew Wallace
Tennessee &lt;TB, American History&gt;
NOTE TO MODERATOR: Please do not reveal alternate answers to the first part of the bonus, as that will spoil the second part. Thanks! Magolwane served as the court poet for this ruler. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler of whom Nathaniel Issacs wrote an account. Henry Francis Fynn’s diary discusses his interactions with this ruler, who he gave medical treatment following an assassination attempt.
Shaka created this kingdom in modern-day South Africa. This kingdom fought the British Empire in the 1870s, defeating them at the Battle of Isandlwana before ultimately being subjugated.
Shaka reformed the Zulu military by introducing this troop formation to his forces. This formation included a “chest” force, which directly fought the enemy, and a reserve force in the “loins.”
Shaka [accept, but do NOT reveal, Shaka Zulu]
Zulu kingdom
buffalo horns [accept bull horns or impondo zenkomo] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
Though not Daoism, this philosophy applied the concept of Wu wei to rulers, along with the “Two Handles” of punishment and reward. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Hundred Schools of Thought that survived the burning of books and burying of scholars.
This prominent Legalist philosopher worked in the court of Qin Shi Huangdi and has been compared to Machiavelli. He wrote an eponymous book that borrowed from predecessors like Shang Yang and Shen Buhai.
Under Legalism, those who committed minor offenses could be sentenced to hard labor building this large defensive structure, which terminates at Jiayu Pass. It was built to protect China’s northern border from the Xiongnu.
Legalism [or Fǎjiā]
Hán Fēi [or Hán Fēi Zi]
Great Wall of China [or Wànlǐ Chángchéng] &lt;JG, Ancient/Other History&gt;
This man was killed by the Yorkist army of Edward IV at the Battle of Barnet after switching sides in one conflict to command the Lancastrian army. For 10 points each:
Name this earl, who had earlier installed Edward IV to the throne, earning him the epithet “Kingmaker.”
This final king from the house of York was killed at the Battle of Bosworth Field during the Wars of the Roses. In a play by Shakespeare, he shouts, "A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!" during that battle.
The extinction of the Lancastrians led this Tudor to take up their cause against the Yorkists. This monarch was crowned following his victory at the Battle of Bosworth Field, establishing the Tudor dynasty.
Richard Neville, 16th Earl of Warwick [accept either underlined portion; accept Warwick the Kingmaker]
Richard III
Henry VII Tudor &lt;JG, European/British History&gt;
The meeting that preceded this event had to be moved from Faneuil Hall to the Old South Meeting House, due to larger than expected crowds. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which members of the Sons of Liberty, led by Samuel Adams, dressed up as Mohawks to dump a certain commodity into the harbor of a major city.
The Boston Tea Party, along with the Boston Massacre, occurred under the rule of this colonial governor of Massachusetts. This governor’s inflammatory letters to Andrew Oliver were published in a later controversy.
As a result of the Boston Tea Party, these retaliatory acts were passed by Parliament. These 1774 acts included the closing of Boston Harbor and the Quartering Act.
Boston Tea Party
Thomas Hutchinson
Intolerable Acts [accept Coercive Acts] &lt;AN, American History&gt;
After this leader successfully captured and executed a Jurchen chieftain in 1576, his superior officers accused him of desertion from the battle, resulting in him being tortured and stripped of his rank. For 10 points each:
Name this naval commander, often considered one of the best in history. After being fatally shot by a bullet at the Battle of Noryang, he instructed his soldiers to beat the war drums instead of announcing his death.
Admiral Yi’s decisive victories at Myeongyang and Noryang defended this peninsula from a Japanese invasion. The northern half of this peninsula, divided by a demilitarized zone since 1953, is ruled by the Kim family.
This second “great unifier” of Japan during the Sengoku period led two failed invasions of Korea. This leader’s son Hideyori had his power usurped by Tokugawa Ieyasu after the death of this leader.
Yi Sun-Shin [or Admiral Yi]
Korean Peninsula
Toyotomi Hideyoshi &lt;JL, World History&gt;
Footage from Hong Kong shows protesters neutralizing this substance by covering it with a traffic cone and pouring water down the top. For 10 points each:
Name this riot-control weapon, which irritates mucous membranes after being converted to aerosol form. Various home remedies to alleviate this substance’s namesake physical reaction include saline solution and milk.
Police fired tear gas to try to quell this movement initially started in 2018 to protest Emmanuel Macron’s fuel-tax hikes. This movement is named for the safety apparel French drivers must keep in their vehicles.
Protests against fuel prices and other shortages in this country began in January 2019, which President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s ZANU-PF government blamed on this country’s Movement for Democratic Change.
Tear gas
Yellow Vests movement [accept Yellow Jackets movement, accept Mouvement des gilets jaunes]
Republic of Zimbabwe &lt;DD, Current Events&gt;
During his rule, this world leader expelled all the Asians in his country. For 10 points each:
Name this eccentric military dictator of Uganda, who was deposed by Julius Nyrere after attempting to annex the Kagera province of Tanzania.
During Idi Amin’s reign, members of the PLO were allowed to land a hijacked plane at this airport. Yonatan Netanyahu was killed while rescuing Israeli hostages from this airport in Operation Thunderbolt.
Amin came to power after a coup against this president of Uganda. After Nyrere deposed Amin, this man was restored to the presidency.
Idi Amin Dada Oumee [accept “His Excellency, President for Life, Field Marshal Al Hadji Doctor Idi Amin Dada, VC, DSO, MC, Lord of All the Beasts of the Earth and Fishes of the Seas and Conqueror of the British Empire in Africa in General and Uganda in Particular”]
Entebbe International Airport
Milton Obote [or Apollo Milton Obote] &lt;WG, World History&gt;
The Casket Letters implicated this monarch in the death of her husband, Lord Darnley. For 10 points each:
Name this queen who was executed by her cousin after approving a scheme to assassinate that cousin and take the throne in the Babington Plot.
This “spymaster” foiled the Ridolfi, Throckmorton, and Babington plots while working with William Cecil. This royal secretary witnessed the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre while serving as Ambassador to France.
Walsingham worked for this “Virgin Queen.” This final Tudor monarch employed Sir Francis Drake to defeat the Spanish Armada raised against this monarch.
Mary, Queen of Scots [accept Mary I of Scotland or Mary Stuart; do not accept Mary I]
Sir Francis Walsingham
Elizabeth I [or Elizabeth Tudor] &lt;JG, European/British History&gt;
This country allowed Britain to use its Donegal Corridor to access the Atlantic Ocean. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which remained neutral during World War II during a period known as “the Emergency.” Despite that neutrality, the German Luftwaffe bombed its capital, Dublin, in 1941.
Ireland was ruled by this Taoiseach [TEE-shuck] during World War II. This man earlier led Anti-Treaty forces during the Irish Civil War and established the Fianna Fáil party.
de Valera and his supporters broke from this Irish party in 1926, whose name translates to “We Ourselves.” This party has since gotten involved in Northern Irish politics, and is associated with the Irish Republican Army.
Ireland [accept Dominion of Ireland]
Eamon de Valera
Sinn Féin [shin FAYN] &lt;GP, European/British History&gt;
As Chancellor of the Exchequer under H. H. Asquith, this man introduced the People’s Budget. For 10 points each:
Name this British Prime Minister, who insisted at the Paris Peace Conference that Germany pay full reparations. He later supported Germany in the years preceding World War II.
Along with Orlando, Clemenceau, and Wilson, Lloyd George was one of the Big Four at the Paris Peace Conference, which drafted this treaty that ended World War I and mandated reparations for Germany.
This largely anti-Semitic myth, the excuse of many Germans for losing the war, was partially inspired by Germany’s signing of the Treaty of Versailles. This myth said that the country was internally betrayed by republicans that it referred to as the “November criminals.”
David Lloyd George, 1st Earl Lloyd-George of Dwyfor
Treaty of Versailles [ver-sigh]
stab-in-the-back legend [or Dolchstoßlegende] &lt;JG, European/British History&gt;
After defeating the Sherden Sea Pirates, this ruler allowed some into his personal guard. For 10 points each:
Name this pharaoh from the 19th dynasty, known by the epithet “the Great.” This pharaoh, also known as Ozymandias, engaged in several wars and signed the first recorded peace treaty after the Battle of Kadesh.
Ramses II fought these people from Anatolia at the Battle of Kadesh, where they were led by Muwatalli I and Hattusili III. These people had their capital at Hattusa and were ruled at their height by Suppiluliuma I.
Ramses II ordered the construction of this cliffside temple complex to commemorate the Battle of Kadesh. This complex was relocated to prevent it from being flooded by the Nile after the Aswan High Dam’s construction.
Ramses II [or Ramses the Great before “the Great” is read; prompt on Ramses]
Hittites
Abu Simbel &lt;GP, Ancient/Other History&gt;
The Ku Klux Klan offered to assist the Mexican government in its conflict with this institution. For 10 points each:
Name this institution which was targeted by the administration of Plutarco Eliás Calles [caye-yes], triggering the Cristero [Kris-tair-oh] War. This institution’s leader was angered by the passage of Mexico’s Reform Laws.
Calles’ successor Lazaro Cardenas created the state-controlled PEMEX, which extracted this commodity. This commodity is extracted by ARAMCO in Saudi Arabia, its biggest exporter.
Secular and economic reforms were brought about in a Mexican document of this type in 1917. Mexico’s version of this type of document is still in place today and was amended in 2005 to ban capital punishment.
Roman Catholic Church
oil [accept petroleum]
Constitution &lt;GP, World History&gt;
The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution’s circumvention of this power led to a 1973 Act limiting the executive branch’s ability to wield this power. For 10 points each:
Name this power given to Congress by Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution, but last used as intended in 1941.
The most recent Congressional declarations of war came in December 1941 after Japan bombed this U.S. naval base in Hawaii, causing the United States’ entry into World War II.
This Montana representative, an avowed pacifist, was the only member of Congress to vote against declaring war on Japan. She became the first woman to serve in Congress when she first won her seat in 1916.
the power to declare war [accept word forms involving a declaration of war; accept War Powers Clause]
Pearl Harbor
Jeannette Rankin [or Jeannette Pickering Rankin] &lt;TB, American History&gt;
This leader once pitched a large Bedouin tent on a Trump estate in Bedford, New York. For 10 points each:
Name this former military dictator of Libya, who was captured and killed while trying to flee Sirte in 2011.
Gaddafi came to power after deposing this Senussi ruler in the 1st of September Revolution.
Gaddafi’s political philosophy was published in a book named for this color. Under Gaddafi’s reign, Libya’s flag consisted of only this color.
Muammar al-Gaddafi [or Muammar al-Qaddafi]
Idris I [accept El Sayyid Prince Muhammad Idris bin Muhammad al-Mahdi as-Senussi]
green [or The Green Book; or Al-Kitab Al-Akhdar] &lt;WG, World History&gt;
This man gave the “Ballot or the Bullet” speech and claimed “We didn’t land on Plymouth Rock. The Rock was landed on us.” For 10 points each:
Name this Civil Rights leader, who was assassinated at the Audubon Ballroom in 1965. This activist changed his last name from Little, which he called a “slave master name.”
Malcolm X’s violent rhetoric was a contrast to this Baptist minister’s non-violent approach to the Civil Rights Movement. This civil rights leader gave the “I Have a Dream” speech and was assassinated by James Earl Ray.
Both Martin Luther King and Malcolm X were targets of this program. This FBI program involved the infiltration and targeting of predominantly leftist groups such as the Young Lords and the Weathermen.
Malcolm X [accept el-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz, prompt on Malcolm and X]
Martin Luther King Jr,
COINTELPRO [accept Counter-Intelligence Program] &lt;AN, American History&gt;
Washington Governor and former Democratic presidential candidate Jay Inslee structured his campaign around this issue, going so far as to call for a debate entirely focused on this topic. For 10 points each:
Name this political issue. The Paris Agreement is a global accord about this issue with 175 signing parties, although the U.S. announced its intention to withdraw in 2017.
This congresswoman from New York’s 14th district co-sponsored a Green New Deal bill. This congresswoman joined the Sunrise Movement in staging a climate sit-in at Nancy Pelosi’s office.
Through exerting societal pressure, climate change activists have tried to convince companies to perform this action to remove financial holdings in fossil fuel companies. Removing investments is an example of this action.
climate change [or global warming; prompt on climate alone]
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez [or AOC; prompt on partial surname]
divestment [or the fossil fuel divestment movement] &lt;TB, Current Events&gt;
This dynasty established the Anxi Protectorate to govern the Tarim Basin. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese dynasty founded by Taizong which succeeded the Sui and preceded the Song. Chang’an and Luoyang were the two capitals of this dynasty, which was rocked to its core by the An Lushan Rebellion.
The Tang Dynasty faced many rebellions in this modern-day country, which had been conquered during the Sui Dynasty by Liu Fang. Lady Trieu and the Trung Sisters led earlier revolts against Chinese rule in this country.
The Tang’s western expansion was halted at the Battle of Talas, where they were defeated by this empire. This empire’s capital of Baghdad, which contained the House of Wisdom, was destroyed by the Mongols in 1258.
Tang Dynasty
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Abbasid Caliphate &lt;GP, World History&gt;
Answer the following about some less famous crusades. For 10 points each:
This country sent a fleet to Italy in 1481 to participate in a crusade against the Ottomans, but arrived after the Ottomans had already left. In 1147, crusaders helped this country’s king Alfonso I capture its capital of Lisbon.
This French king was captured by the Mamluks during the Seventh Crusade and died of disease in Tunisia while participating in the Eighth Crusade. He was later canonized by the Catholic Church.
In 1107, this country’s king Sigurd the Crusader sailed to the Holy Land, leading this country’s namesake crusade. Christianity came to this country through its patron saint, St. Olaf.
Kingdom of Portugal
Louis IX [accept Saint Louis, prompt on Louis]
Kingdom of Norway [or the Norwegian Crusade] &lt;GP, European/British History&gt;
<em>Note to moderator: Emphasize the italicized words</em> World War II intelligence obtained from British efforts in this field were said to come from a fictional master spy named “Boniface” in order to deceive the Germans. For 10 points each:
Name this activity performed at Bletchley Park, where the workforce was 75% female. The British used devices called “bombes” to perform this activity while combating the German Enigma machine.
The first “bombe” machines were actually developed in this country by Marian Rejewski, who worked at this nation’s Cipher Bureau in Warsaw.
British codebreaking efforts during World War I were directed from this department within the Admiralty. This department, nicknamed for its location in the Admiralty Office Building, decoded the Zimmermann Telegram.
codebreaking [or cryptography; or decryption; or descriptive answers about solving a code]
Poland
Room 40 [accept 40 O.B.; accept NID25] &lt;TB+GP, European/British History&gt;
This man earned his primary epithet after an injury during the Siege of Perinthos. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Diadochi whose namesake dynasty ruled Macedon and much of Greece until its conquest by Rome. This father of Demetrius Poliocertes was killed at the Battle of Ipsus in 301 BC.
The Battle of Ipsus was won by Seleucus I Nicator, who had the advantage of these animals being in his army. These large animals were later used by Pyrrhus of Epirus against Rome and could be procured from India or Africa.
Earlier in 306 BC, Demetrius captured Cyprus after defeating the Ptolemaic navy at a battle at this location. An earlier battle at this location saw Themistocles lead the Greek navy to victory against the Persians in 480 BC.
Antigonus I [Accept Antigonus Monophthalamus or Antigonus the One-Eyed; prompt on Antigonus]
elephants
Salamis &lt;GP, Ancient/Other History&gt;
The Safavid Empire had a less-than-friendly relationship with many of its neighbors. For 10 points each:
This empire laid three failed sieges to the Safavid city of Kandahar, two of which were under its ruler Aurangzeb. Before the first siege, the Safavids offered shelter to this empire’s ruler Humayun.
The Safavids also fought numerous wars with the Ottomans to the west, who defeated them at the Battle of Chaldiran while under this sultan. This sultan was succeeded by Suleiman the Magnificent.
Towards its end, the Safavid Empire was defeated in a war by this Russian tsar, who seized Safavid lands in the Caucasus. This Westernising tsar led Russia to victory in the Great Northern War.
Mughal Empire
Selim I [Accept Selim the Grim, prompt on Selim]
Peter the Great [Accept Peter I, prompt on Peter] &lt;GP, World History&gt;
As part of his will, this man established a trust which helped fund the New York Public Library. For 10 points each:
Name this New York governor and political reformer. This man worked to reduce the power of “Boss” Tweed and Tammany Hall and broke up the notoriously corrupt “Canal Ring.”
Despite getting more popular votes than Rutherford B. Hayes, Tilden lost the presidential election in this year. Three states’ disputed results in this presidential election were settled by a compromise the next year.
The Compromise of 1877 is widely credited with ending this period of time. Freed slaves briefly gained representation and rights in the South during this post-Civil War “rebuilding” period.
Samuel Jones Tilden
Election of 1876 [prompt on ‘76]
Reconstruction &lt;AN, American History&gt;
Muhammad Ahmad claimed this title in 1881. For 10 points each:
Name this redeeming figure in Islam, who will supposedly come and destroy the world’s evil before the Day of Judgment. Ahmad claimed to be this figure and led a namesake war against the Anglo-Egyptian rulers of Sudan.
Another person claiming to be the Mahdi was Ibn Tumart, who founded the Almohad Caliphate centered in this modern-day country. The Almohads reigned from this country’s city of Marrakesh.
Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was another claimant to being the Mahdi, and founded the Ahmadiyya movement in this British colony. This largest British colonial possession was directly ruled by Britain during its “Raj” period.
Mahdi
Kingdom of Morocco
British India &lt;GP, World History&gt;
You are Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi and traveling around Egypt. For 10 points each:
The greatest wonders you beheld were the three pyramids of this city, the largest of which was built by the great pharaoh Khufu.
At Giza, you also beheld many of these flat-roofed, rectangular tombs. My companions tell me that many Old Kingdom rulers and lesser nobles lay in eternal repose within these structures.
Observing famine victims you disprove this Greek physician’s theory about the formation of the jaw. This physician popularized the theory of the humors and built upon Hippocrates’ work.
Giza
Mastaba
Galen &lt;Other History, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
“Buzzfeed Unsolved” has costed the editors of this packet many sleepless nights. For 10 points each:
This Bay Area serial killer active during the 60’s and 70’s gained his notorious nickname from the taunting letters he sent to local press. Only one of the cryptograms this man included in the letters was decoded.
While serving as Safety Director of this city, Eliot Ness failed to apprehend its namesake “Torso Murderer” who disposed his victim’s remains in this city’s rundown neighborhood of Kingsbury Run.
An infamous New Orleans serial killer who usually used this weapon said he would spare anyone who had jazz playing in their homes. Lizzie Borden probably killed her father and stepmother with this type of weapon.
Zodiac Killer
Cleveland
axe &lt;Other History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
An archbishop named Francesco Salviati was hanged from the window of the Sala dei Duecento at the aftermath of this event. For 10 points each:
Name this 1498 plot to displace a powerful banking family as rulers of a certain Italian city. It took place at the Duomo during High Mass killed Giuliano, but failed to kill the more powerful Lorenzo the Magnificent.
Giuliano and Lorenzo the Magnificent were members of this aforementioned family. This family served as the patron of artists such as Michelangelo and Botticelli.
The Pazzi Plot took place in this city, which the Medicis ruled during the Renaissance. This city on the Arno River was ruled by Girolamo Savonarola after the fall of the Medicis.
Pazzi Plot [accept Pazzi Conspiracy]
Medici Family
Florence &lt;European History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
South America has had its fair share of bloody conflicts. For 10 points each:
This deadliest war in South American history was begun by Paraguay against a namesake coalition of Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. It ended after Solano Lopez was killed at the Battle of Cerro Cora.
Another bloody war involving Paraguay was fought against Bolivia for control of this namesake region, which was thought to be laden with oil deposits.
This war between Chile, Peru, and Bolivia was fought over a resource-rich section of the Atacama Desert, but is more commonly referred to by ocean it was largely fought in. Bolivia has been landlocked ever since.
War of the Triple Alliance
Chaco War [accept Gran Chaco War]
War of the Pacific [accept Saltpeter War] &lt;World History, AK &amp; JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
A huge cannon known as the Raevsky Redoubt formed a crucial part of the defender’s line in this battle. For 10 points each:
Mikhail Kutuzov led the Russian defense in this 1812 battle where Matvei Platov led a cossack charge against Eugene de Beauharnais. This battle was the single bloodiest day of the Napoleonic Wars.
Napoleon entered this capital city a week after Borodino, only to find it deserted and without provisions.
Among the fighters at Borodino was this man, Napoleon’s brother in law known as the “Dandy King.” The Carbonari first became influential during the reign of this King of Naples.
Battle of Borodino
Moscow
Joachim-Napoléon Murat &lt;European History, AK, JP, and DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the constitutionality of U.S. military protocol.
This legislation mandates that the president notify congress within 48 hours of the start of a conflict. It also states that all troops must be removed from combat within 60 days unless Congress grants an extension.
In his dissent in INS vs. Chadha, this JFK-appointed justice argued that the War Powers Resolution was an unconstitutional violation of the Presentment Clause. Upon his retirement, he was replaced by Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
The constitutional grounding of the War Powers Resolution is found in this Article of the Constitution. This Article enumerates powers delegated to the legislative branch of government.
War Powers Resolution [accept War Powers Act]
Byron White
Article I &lt;American History, CZ&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Answer some questions about Lajos Kossuth [[“kuh-SOOTH”]] and his influence in other countries, for 10 points each:
Kossuth was forced to flee to Ottoman Empire after he led an uprising in support of the independence of this country, which eventually formed a dual monarchy with Austria.
Kossuth’s extremely popular tour of America inspired this orator to write a book on his life. This man served as Secretary of State under John Tyler and successfully argued McCulloch vs. Maryland before the Supreme Court.
Kossuth’s arrival in Britain contributed to the fall of this Prime Minister’s government. This man’s disastrous first ministry marked the last time the Whig Party would form a government.
Hungary [accept Magyarorszag]
Daniel Webster
Lord John Russell [accept 1st Earl Russell] &lt;Other History, JB&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This disease killed Rock Hudson, who left 250,000 dollars to help found an organization that tries to combat its main cause. For 10 points each:
Name this retrovirus-caused disease that claimed hundreds of thousands of lives in the 1980s and 1990s during its namesake “crisis.”
In 1985, Ryan White was prevented from entering his middle school in this state because he had contracted AIDS. In the 1920’s this state became a base for the KKK under the leadership of D.C. Stephenson.
Mary Fisher advocated for compassion towards HIV positive people and greater awareness of AIDS at two of these events. Pat Buchanan gave his “culture war” speech at the 1992 edition of this event.
AIDS [accept HIV]
Indiana
Republican National Convention &lt;American History, JL&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Although the initial plan for Case Blue did not call for protracted urban fighting, dogged Soviet resistance at this major city halted the German advance into the USSR. for 10 points each:
This turning-point battle of the Eastern Front was fought over a city that was named after the then leader of the Soviet Union.
Hitler promoted this leader of the German Sixth Army to Field Marshal in an attempt to stave off his eventual surrender on January 31, 1943.
After the winter began to set in, Marshal Zhukov launched this massive operation named after a Roman God in order to isolate Paulus’ forces in Stalingrad.
Battle of Stalingrad
Friedrich Paulus
Operation Uranus &lt;European History, DZ&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
“I ran away with two old people, but they were caught and killed, and the soldiers made me carry the baskets holding their cut-off hands.” For 10 points each:
These horrors were described in a 1903 report by this Irish diplomat and activist. This man detailed systematic abuses being perpetrated in the Congo Free State.
The Congo Free State was established under the private ownership of King Leopold II, a monarch who ruled over this modern-day European country with capital at Brussels.
The hands of native Congolese were cut off if they could not meet production quotas for this natural resource harvested from trees. Demand for this good spiked after the development of new industrial polymers.
Roger Casement
Belgium
rubber &lt;World History, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In order to join this organization, countries must adhere to the regulations of the Copenhagen Criteria. For 10 points each:
Name this political and economic entity made up of 28 member states that are primarily located in Europe. Recently, United Kingdom’s “Brexit” movement targeted an exit from this organization.
The European Union was created through a treaty signed in this Dutch city, located on the Meuse River.
This is the name given to this geographical union of 26 EU member nations who have agreed to adhere to open border policies. Border control has recently be strengthened in the wake of the European Migrant Crisis.
European Union [accept EU]
Maastricht [accept Treaty of Maastricht]
Schengen Area &lt;AK and AH&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Name some things about African leaders who led their countries in or shortly after decolonization. For 10 points each:
Gamal Abdel Nasser led a coup in this country against Muhammad Naguib, promoting the principles of Pan-Arabism and anti-imperialism by nationalizing the Suez Canal.
This first president of Kenya was charged with masterminding the Mau Mau Uprising against the British Empire and was given the honorary title of “Mzee” by his people.
This dictator of the Central African Republic was noted for his alleged cannibalism. However, he is perhaps most famous for spending ⅓ of his country’s GDP on an absurd imperial coronation ceremony.
Egypt
Jomo Kenyatta [prompt on Kenyatta; do not accept or prompt on “Uhuru Kenyatta”]
Jean-Bedel Bokassa [accept Bokassa I or Salah Eddine Ahmed Bokassa] &lt;World History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Deborah Blum’s <em>The Poison Squad</em> focuses on the work of Dr. Harvey Washington Wiley, who is often known as the “father” of this law. For 10 points each:
Name this act which regulated sanitary standards and prohibited the mislabeling of certain consumables. It was passed alongside the Meat Inspection Act.
The Poison Squad argues that Dr. Wiley’s efforts became synonymous in the public mind with the works of this muckraker. This socialist penned a novel that garnered widespread public support for the Meat Inspection Act.
Dr. Wiley led a truth in labeling case against this company, arguing that its name shouldn’t be used because its products no longer contained cocaine.
Pure Food and Drug Act
Upton Sinclair
Coca-Cola &lt;American History, EL&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about Roman infrastructure:
These locations served as the center of daily life in Roman cities as well as the meeting place for the Senate. The last imperial one of these built was designed by Apollodorus of Damascus and named after the emperor Trajan.
More than 400,000 km of these structures helped link the Roman Empire together. Spartacus and his followers were crucified along one of these structures.
These buildings can be distinguished between their urbana and rustica types, and were usually only owned by wealthy citizens. Hadrian had one built for himself in Tivoli.
Roman Forum
Roman roads [accept via or viae or ways]
villas &lt;Other History, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Destalinization began in this country after nearly a hundred thousand workers protested in the town of Poznan. For 10 points each:
Under Wladyslaw Golmuka, this country moderately liberalized and loosened its ties with the USSR in 1956. The capital of this country lent its name to the Warsaw Pact.
The fall of Communism in Poland can largely be attributed to the efforts of this independent Polish labor union founded at the Lenin shipyard under the leadership of Lech Walesa.
Leonid Brezhnev worked with this Polish general in an effort to suppress the Solidarity movement. This military commander eventually became the last leader of the People’s Republic of Poland.
Republic of Poland
Independent Self-governing Labour Union “Solidarity”
Wojchiech Jaruzelski &lt;European History, JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This group designed a flat-bottom ship known as a <em>cog</em>, which it used to achieve immense commercial success. For 10 points each:
Valdemar IV was forced to grant this group 15% of profits from Danish trade after they won a war against him. This group dominated Baltic trade for several centuries during the High Middle Ages.
The Hanseatic League was centered around the town of Lübeck, a city in this modern-day country. Hamburg, a city in this country, was another key member of the confederation.
This other political union rivaled the Hanseatic League for supremacy. This Scandinavian federation founded by Queen Margaret I was broken up after Gustav Vasa was elected king of Sweden.
Hanseatic League [or Hansa]
Federal Republic of Germany
Kalmar Union &lt;European History, AK, JP, and DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
In 1964, the Supreme Court declared in a ruling in favor of the <em>New York Times</em> that prior restraint required the government to show “grave and irreperable damage” would result from a written statement. For 10 points each:
Name this standard established in the landmark Supreme Court case New York Times v. Sullivan, which establishes the criterion that press reports about public officials must meet to be considered libel.
New York Times v. United States concerned the publication of these documents leaked by Daniel Ellsberg which revealed, among other things, that the US had secretly expanded the scope of the Vietnam War.
This President attempted to stifle the publication of the Pentagon Papers during his continuation of the Vietnam War. He later resigned following the Watergate scandal.
actual malice standard [prompt on just malice]
Pentagon Papers
Richard Milhous Nixon &lt;American History, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This state was founded by Oleg of Novgorod and christianized by Vladimir the Great. For 10 points each:
Name this confederation ruled by the Rurik dynasty in modern-day Ukraine, often considered a predecessor to the Russian empire.
Kievan Rus reached its greatest extent under this ruler. This ruler’s Pravda served as the basis for Old Russian Law.
Yaroslav unsuccessfully launched a naval raid on this capital city. This city was later sacked by Mehmed II, effectively ending the Byzantine empire.
Kievan Rus
Yaroslav I [accept Yaroslav the Wise]
Constantinople [accept Byzantium] &lt;European History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. OC and JB&gt;
The Arawak word for the wooden frame used to slow cook meat lends its name to a group of privateers who operated in this body of water and made money selling sailors that meat. For 10 points each:
Name this sea where privateers and buccaneers operated from islands like Hispaniola and the Bahamas.
This Welsh privateer attacked Panama City in a 1671 raid, unknowingly violating the Treaty of Madrid. This man later served as Lieutenant Governor of Panama under Thomas Lynch.
Havens for pirates, such as the Bahamian city of Nassau, began to fade after the British secured access to the asiento system via this treaty that ended the War of the Spanish Succession.
Caribbean Sea
Henry Morgan
Treaty of Utrecht &lt;World History, EL and DC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Could it be? Yes! You have been improbably transformed into the Mongol general Subutai! For 10 points each:
You lead an invasion of Europe alongside Batu, the founder of this khanate. This khanate was supposedly named for the iridescent color of Batu’s tent and ruled over modern day Russia.
Your ingenious use of pontoon bridges helps you obliterate Bela IV’s Hungarian army at this 1241 battle. After this battle, your forces devastate the Hungarian lowlands, killing around 20 percent of the population.
Your rapid rise through the ranks of the Mongol army is largely due to the support of this first Great Khan. After his death, this man was succeeded by his son Ogedei.
Golden Horde [accept Kipchak Khanate of Ulus of Jochi]
Battle of Mohi [accept Sajo River or Tisza River]
Genghis Khan [accept Temujin] &lt;World History, JB&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Throughout the Trump administration’s first two years in office, it has sought to withdraw the U.S. from various international organizations and agreements. For 10 points each:
In June 2017, Trump announced that the U.S. would withdraw from this climate agreement, named for the French city where it was signed.
In June 2018, this then-Ambassador to the U.N. announced that the U.S. would withdraw from the U.N. Human Rights Council, citing unfair treatment of Israel. She previously served as the governor of South Carolina.
The administration plans to withdraw from the Universal Union of this service, claiming that it unfairly benefits Chinese manufacturers. Montgomery Blair oversaw the U.S. delegation that founded the organization in the 1860s.
Paris Agreement [accept Paris Accord]
Nikki Haley
Universal Postal Union [accept anything related to postal or mail service] &lt;Current Events, IR&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
This man executed Guru Tegh Bahadur because he refused to convert from Sikhism to Islam. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who defeated his brother Dara Shikoh in a civil war and brought the empire he ruled to its greatest extent. He succeeded his father Shah Jahan.
Aurangzeb, his father Shah Jahan, and his great-grandfather Akbar the Great, were rulers of this Indian empire. After Aurangzeb’s son Shah Alam repealed his father’s religious practices, this empire eventually declined.
Akbar the Great notably repealed this tax, which was to be paid by all non-Muslims living in Muslim land.
Aurangzeb [or Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad; accept Alamgir I]
Mughal Empire
jizya tax &lt;World History, AB&gt;&lt;ed. AB&gt;
On the 17th of September, 1859, Joshua Norton declared himself “Emperor of these United States.” For 10 points each.
Emperor Norton lost most of his fortune (and his sanity) after he failed to corner the market for this commodity that had skyrocketed in price thanks to a famine in China.
Emperor Norton demanded that this man be sent as a prisoner to America. This Emperor, who banned unsanctioned armed groups with his Black Decree, was captured following the Siege of Querétaro.
Emperor Norton repeatedly urged for the construction of a suspension bridge over San Francisco Bay. In 1937, his vision was realized with the completion of this iridescent structure.
rice
Maximilian I
Golden Gate Bridge &lt;Other History, JB&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
The 2018 G7 Conference, a gathering of leaders from the most powerful countries around the world, was held in La Malbaie, Quebec, for 10 points each:
This Canadian Prime Minister hosted the event. In February 2018, this man controversially used the term “peoplekind” instead of “mankind” in an allusion to feminism.
At the conference, President Trump pushed other leaders to recognize this region as part of Russia. In 2014, Russia annexed this region and incorporated its largest city of Sevastopol as federal subjects.
Twelve heads of states were invited to the conference as part of an Outreach Session, including this man. This man, the current chair of the G20, has been the president of Argentina since 2015.
Justin Trudeau [prompt on Trudeau; do not accept or prompt on “Pierre Trudeau”]
Crimea [accept Crimean peninsula]
Mauricio Macri &lt;Current Events, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AdH&gt;
The illegal sale of these items was addressed in <em>Cohens v. Virginia</em>, in which the Supreme Court declared state laws contradicting federal laws “absolutely void.” For 10 points each:
Name these items. In Champion v. Ames the Court held that these items could be subject to interstate commerce regulations.
Champion v. Ames built on this 1824 case which established the Court’s plenary power in interstate commerce. This case arose from a steamboat monopoly the state of New York granted to Robert Livingston and Robert Fulton.
Cohens v. Virginia and Gibbons v. Ogden were presided over by this longest serving chief justice who also presided over Marbury v Madison.
lottery tickets [prompt on partial answer]
Gibbons v. Ogden [prompt on partial answer]
John Marshall &lt;American History, JL&gt;&lt;ed. EL&gt;
This country’s national anthem, the “Wilhelmus," pays homage to its independence leader, William I of Orange. For 10 points each:
Name this nation preceded by the Dutch Republic. Its capital is at The Hague, where its king Willem-Alexander resides at Villa Eikenhorst.
The Dutch Revolt began against this Spanish monarch. This monarch appointed the Duke of Alba to suppress dissidents in the Council of Blood and dispatched the Spanish Armada against England.
This city’s brutal sacking in what is known as the “Spanish Fury” united the Netherlands against Habsburg rule. A later battle in this city saw the use of “hellburners” against the army of Alexander Farnese.
Netherlands [prompt on Holland]
Philip II of Spain [prompt on Philip]
Antwerp &lt;European History, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
After returning to Britain, this man served as an ambassador to the court of Frederick the Great and a Governor-General of India. For 10 points each:
Name this general who led Britain through the Southern Campaign of the Revolutionary War, leading to victories at Camden and Guilford Courthouse.
Cornwallis is most famous for losing this battle where defensive points were held at Redoubts Nine and Ten. French forces under the Comte de Rochambeau and the Marquis de Lafayette assisted the winning side in this battle.
George Washington denied the British traditional honors after Yorktown due to the British denial of American honors at this battle, which saw the first combat by Comte D’Estaing’s Haitian expeditionary force.
Charles Cornwallis [accept 1st Marquess Cornwallis]
Battle of Yorktown
Siege of Charleston &lt;American History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
These people’s history is the primary concern of <em>Kano Chronicle</em>, named for one of these peoples’ largest medieval Kingdoms. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group, whose Kingdoms were targeted by the Fulani Jihad, a conquest detailed in Muhammad Bello’s The Wages of The Fortunate. The Sokoto Caliphate supplanted many of these peoples’ Kingdoms.
The Hausa live primarily in this modern day nation, whose other large ethnic groups include the Yoruba and Igbo [[ee-bo]].
The Sokoto Caliphate practiced this branch of Islam. Usman dan Fodio, Sokoto’s founder, was a leader of this branch of Islam, which makes up 90% of the world’s Muslims.
Hausa
Nigeria
Sunni Islam &lt;World History, EL&gt;&lt;ed. EL&gt;
Fighting in this region saw the use of “republican marriages,” a form of execution in which two people are tied together and thrown into a river. For 10 points each:
Name this region where royalist forces led by generals like Henri de la Rochejaquelein [[“roash-ja-kuh-lan”]] staged a bloody uprising against the newly instituted government in 1793.
The War in the Vendée took place during this larger conflict that saw the toppling of Louis XVI and the Ancien [[ahn-see-EN]] Régime.
Much of the War in the Vendée was centered on this city on the banks of the Loire. A law named for this city gave religious protection to Huguenots and was revoked by the Edict of Fontainebleau.
Vendée [accept War in the Vendée]
French Revolution [accept Révolution Française]
Nantes [accept Edict of Nantes] &lt;European History, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This man was supposedly responsible for the implementation of expiration dates on milk bottles in the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this infamous Chicago gangster nicknamed “Scarface," who was eventually arrested on tax evasion charges in 1931.
On the morning of this holiday, seven members of Bugs Moran’s North Side Gang were gunned down by mobsters belonging to Capone’s Chicago Outfit in Lincoln Park Garage.
This other Italian mobster established the First Commission which created a ruling committee consisting of the Five Families and the Chicago Outfit. He was the first boss of the Genovese crime family.
Al Capone [accept Alphonse Gabriel Capone]
Valentine’s Day [accept: St. Valentine’s Day Massacre]
Charles “Lucky” Luciano &lt;American History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Name some British Prime Ministers whose Ministries were affected by the Suez Canal. For 10 points each:
The canal was purchased by this Prime Minister, the first of Jewish descent and longtime rival of William Gladstone led the Conservative Party through much of the 1860’s and 1870’s
This man resigned as Prime Minister due to his mishandling of the Suez Crisis. This man previously resigned as Foreign Secretary to protest Neville Chamberlain’s policies of appeasement.
Eden was replaced by Harold Macmillan, who gave the “Winds of Change” speech this country’s parliament. A peoples in this country led by Cetshwayo defeated Britain at the Battle of Isandlwana.
Benjamin Disraeli [accept 1st Earl of Beaconsfield]
Anthony Eden [accept 1st Earl of Avon]
South Africa &lt;Other History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
A referendum for this cause was known by its numeronym 1-O. For 10 points each:
Name this movement that pushed for the independence of an autonomous community from an Iberian kingdom.
Protests for and against Catalan independence took place in this city, Catalonia’s largest and Spain’s second-largest. This city also hosted the 1992 Summer Olympics.
Carles Puigdemont, one of the foremost leaders of the Catalan independence movement, fled to this country. In 2016, terrorists attacked the Maelbeek metro station and the airport in the capital city of this country.
Catalonian Independence [accept equivalents]
Barcelona
Belgium &lt;Current Events, AK and KLu&gt;&lt;ed. AK and KLu&gt;
This social class was the only one allowed to carry weapons following Toyotomi Hideyoshi’s reforms. For 10 points each:
Name this class of Japanese warriors, key fighters during the Sengoku period, who adhered to the bushido code. Name some things about the social classes of the Sengoku, or Warring States, period in Japan.
Samurai were employed by these large landowners, whose landownings were reorganized into the han system by Hideyoshi.
The defeat of many daimyo at the Battle of Sekigahara led to the creation of this class, composed of samurai without employers. Tokugawa marched on Hideyoshi’s forces at Osaka after Hideyoshi began recruiting soldiers of this class.
Samurai [accept bushi or buke]
daimyo [or shugo-daimyo]
ronin &lt;World History, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
For 10 points each, name these European explorers of the Western Hemisphere.
This man named one island in the modern day Bahamas San Salvador. This Genoese explorer departed from Spain in 1492 and is often given credit for being the first European to discover the Americas.
This Italian rejected Columbus’ conjecture that the West Indies was in Asia, instead claiming that it was part of a separate landmass. The Latin version of this man’s first name now lends its name to two continents.
This man completed the first documented crossing of the Mississippi River by a European. Francisco Pizarro sent this man to invite the Incan emperor Atahualpa to a meeting.
Christopher Columbus
Amerigo Vespucci
Hernando de Soto &lt;European History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
A leader of this country was overthrown in a CIA-backed coup known as Operation Ajax. For 10 points each:
Name this country with a capital at Tehran that nationalized its oil industries under Mohammad Mosaddegh until his removal from power.
This “Supreme Leader” of Iran took power in the 1979 Iranian Revolution on a platform of opposing Western Imperialism. He is famous for issuing a death fatwa against Salman Rushdie.
Shortly after the Iranian Revolution the provisional government suppressed an uprising in this oil-rich region. Iraq’s intention to annex this region and the Shatt al-Arab were major triggers of the Iran-Iraq War.
Islamic Republic of Iran
Ayatollah Sayyid Ruhollah Musavi Khomeini
Khuzestan &lt;World History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about Harald Hardrada, the “last of the Vikings”:
Hardrada and his brother Olaf tried to seize the Norwegian throne from this ruler at the battle of Stiklestad. This son of Sweyn Forkbeard was the only English monarch besides Alfred with the epithet “the Great.”
Hardrada commanded this elite unit while serving the Byzantines. This unit served as the emperor’s personal bodyguard.
Hardrada was killed fighting this man’s forces at the Battle of Stamford Bridge. This ruler would later take an arrow to the eye at the the Battle of Hastings, which he lost to William the Conqueror.
Cnut [accept Canute the Great]
Varangian Guard
Harold Godwinson [accept Harold II; prompt on Harold] &lt;European History, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Some people held office in the United States government before defecting to the Confederacy. For 10 points each:
This man sponsored the United States Camel Corps as Secretary of War under Franklin Pierce. He dressed as a woman while trying to escape Union authorities who were after him because he was the first and only Confederate President.
Jefferson Davis’ Secretary of the Navy was this man who was largely responsible for its building up.
Davis had Robert M.T Hunter, a former speaker of the U.S House of Representatives, attend this conference as a delegate. This conference, which took place aboard the steamboat River Queen, failed to reach a peace agreement.
Jefferson Davis
Stephen Mallory
Hampton Roads Conference &lt;American History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions involving self-proclaimed knights in history.
The Knights of Labor basically collapsed in the aftermath of this event. This 1886 riot began as a rally for an eight hour work day for workers in its namesake Chicago square, when bombs suddenly went off.
This crusading order became the first multinational corporation in the world after creating branches all across Europe. They were forcibly disbanded by Philip IV who wanted to seize their money.
The Knights of Pythias were the first of these entities to gain a charter under an act passed by the United States Congress.
Haymarket Square Riot [accept anything mentioning Haymarket]
Knights Templar [accept The Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon or reasonable equivalents]
Fraternal Organizations [accept Fraternities] &lt;Other History, JP and AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
The United States government has a sinister history of massacring Native Americans. For 10 points each.
This incident took place on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. More than 150 men, women, and children from the Lakota Tribe were killed by James Forsyth’s 7th Cavalry in this massacre.
This leader was killed at the beginning of the Wounded Knee Massacre. He also toured with Buffalo Bill’s Wild West and he led the coalition that won the battle of Little Bighorn.
This other massacre took place in the southeastern part of what is now present-day Colorado. In this event, the US Army attacked a Arapaho and Cheyenne village killing between 70 to 500 people.
Wounded Knee Massacre
Sitting Bull
Sand Creek Massacre &lt;American History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
One ruler of this empire traveled to Mecca to bring back enough mud and timber for a 17-foot pyramidal tomb. For 10 points each:
Name this empire, which was at its greatest height under the rule of Askia Muhammad. This Islamic empire, which used salt as its currency, had its capital at Gao.
The Songhai empire met its end at this 1591 battle, where a gunpowder explosion led to a chaotic cattle stampede that was exploited by Moroccan forces under Judar Pasha.
Sundiata Keita legendarily founded this empire which preceded the Songhai.
Songhai Empire
Battle of Tondibi
Mali Empire &lt;World History, JP and AK&gt; &lt;ed. AH&gt;
Jan Palach set himself on fire immediately after the end of this period. For 10 points each:
Name this 1968 period of liberalizing reform named for the capital of a certain Eastern European country. This movement sought to implement “socialism with a human face” and was crushed by the Soviet Union.
The Prague Spring was spearheaded by this First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. After Soviet invasion, he was replaced by Gustáv Husák, who began an era of “normalization.”
Following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, this nation withdrew from the Warsaw Pact. This nation notably enjoyed warm relations with the People’s Republic of China under First Secretary Enver Hoxha [[“HO-cha”]].
Prague Spring
Alexander Dubček
People's Socialist Republic of Albania &lt;European History, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This Indian leader is reputed to have built a terrible prison with the “facade of a spectacular palace.” For 10 points each:
Name this son of Bindusara who was famous for his Rock Edicts. This man converted to Buddhism after realizing the atrocities he had committed during his conquest of Kalinga.
Ashoka belonged to this dynasty, which was founded by his grandfather Chandragupta. This dynasty’s empire, the largest ever to exist on the Indian subcontinent, was based in the city of Pataliputra.
The most important source about Chandragupta Maurya’s reign for the Greeks was Indica, which was written by this man. This man served as an ambassador of the Seleucid Empire in Chandragupta’s court.
Ashoka [accept Asoka]
Mauryan Empire [accept Mauryan Dynasty]
Megasthenes &lt;World History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
She isn’t Elizabeth I, but this woman made a rousing speech about English courage in anticipation of the Earl of Surrey’s victory at Flodden Field. For 10 points each:
The book The Education of A Christian Woman by Juan Luis Vives was commissioned by this wife of Arthur, the son of Henry VII.
Upon Arthur’s premature death, Catherine would become Queen of England after marrying this soon-to-be prolifically-wed King of England.
This pope refused to annul Henry VIII’s first marriage under pressure from Charles V. Nonetheless, he was later taken prisoner as Charles III lost control of his men during the 1527 sack of Rome.
Catherine of Aragon [prompt on Catherine]
Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]
Clement VII [prompt on Clement] &lt;Other History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This man formed a Committee of Safety of ten people which replaced the government under Francis Nicholson. For 10 points each:
Name this German-born businessman who took control of a colony following William and Mary’s accession to the throne after the Glorious Revolution. His namesake “Rebellion” was crushed by Henry Sloughter.
Leisler’s Rebellion took place in this modern-day state. An early colony based in this modern-day state was called New Amsterdam and was led by Peter Stuyvesant.
In 1655, Stuyvesant seized a colony belonging to this other nation. Peter Minuit built Fort Christina in what is now northern Delaware in the name of this nation.
Jacob Leisler [accept Leisler’s Rebellion]
New York
Sweden &lt;American History, JL&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Although tradition has it that Urban II cried “Deus vult,” or “God wills it” in support of this event, there is little eyewitness testimony to corroborate this fact. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict which occurred after Alexios I Komnenos’ request for aid. Key battles include those at Dorylaeum, Antioch, and Ascalon.
The purpose of the First Crusade was to “liberate” this Holy City which contains the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and the Al-Aqsa Mosque. Israel claims it as its present-day capital.
Prior to the official “Lords” Crusade, this man and his lieutenant Walter Sans Avoir led the far less successful People’s Crusade. His army terrorized the European countryside before being slaughtered at the Battle of Civetot.
First Crusade [prompt on crusade]
Jerusalem
Peter the Hermit &lt;European History, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This man’s partner Aspasia was blamed for the unsuccessful Samian War due to her Miletian heritage. For 10 points each:
Name this statesman, who, with Aspasia, had a son who was executed following the unsuccessful Battle of Arginusae.
Pericles hailed from this Attic city, which was also home to the noted orator Demosthenes. This center of the Delian League often feuded with rival city-state Sparta.
This other Athenian statesman was the uncle of Pericles’ mother. Considered the father of Athenian democracy, he overthrew the tyrant Hippias and increased the size of the Council of 400 to 500 people.
Pericles
Athens
Cleisthenes &lt;Other History, JP and AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This election’s eventual winner emerged victorious following the Supreme Court’s overturning of a prior ruling requiring a recount in Florida. For 10 points each:
Name this election decided following the Court’s ruling in Bush v. Gore.
This Justice publicly stated that a Gore Presidency would be a disaster. This first female Supreme Court Justice argued that affirmative action would be unnecessary in 25 years in her majority opinion in Grutter v. Bollinger.
One issue that added to the chaos in the election were these types of ballots that were issued in Palm Beach County, Florida. These insect-named ballots have been likened to a maze.
US Presidential Election of 2000
Sandra Day O’Connor
Butterfly Ballots &lt;American History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
In 2014, this man was awarded the Padma Shri, India’s fourth highest Civilian Award. For 10 points each:
Name this American entrepreneur who created his namesake “academy,” a free online education platform teaching a variety of academic subjects.
Khan was born in Metairie [[met-a-ree]], located in this US state. Another person of Indian descent from this state is Bobby Jindal, its former governor.
In 2012, this newsmagazine named Khan as one of its 100 most influential people in the world.
Salman “Sal” Khan
Louisiana
TIME &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, AK&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
This man was given the title “El Libertador” in Merida at the beginning of his Admirable Campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this Latin American independence leader who is considered a founding father to modern Venezuela, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Panama.
This other Venezuelan revolutionary was widely regarded as a direct forerunner to Bolivar. In 1810, this man created the Supreme Junta of Caracas after deposing its colonial administrators.
Bolivar issued a letter from this island, in which he defended his principles. Samuel Sharp led a revolt on this island, which contained a pirate haven in its city of Port Royal.
Simon Bolivar
Francisco de Miranda
Jamaica &lt;World History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This man gained nationwide prestige after he crushed the Asturias miners’ strike of 1934. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who sent the Blue Division to fight for Nazi Germany on the Eastern Front during World War II. This dictator ruled his country under the title El Caudillo and came to prominence for his services in the Rif War.
Franco commanded a right-wing alliance of factions such as the Falangists and Carlists against left-wing Republicans in this war, in which American volunteers fought in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.
During the war, general Emilio Mola coined this term that denotes a traitorous group within a country. He proclaimed that groups given this term would undermine the Republican Spanish government.
Francisco Franco
Spanish Civil War
“Fifth Column” &lt;European History, AK, JP, and DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Ever had General Tso’s chicken? Ever wonder who he is? For 10 points each:
His claim to fame began with his ruthless suppression of this 1850 millenarian Chinese rebellion. It was led by the self-proclaimed brother of Christ, Hong Xiuquan, who ruled a namesake Heavenly Kingdom based in Nanjing.
It's not the hundred days reforms, but Tso also founded China's first modern shipyard as part of these never-completed reforms that were cancelled by the Empress Dowager.
General Tso is also credited with briefly halting the expansion of this largest European country, whose Trans-Siberian Railroad threatened China's Central Asian possessions.
Taiping Rebellion
Self-Strengthening Movement [accept Tongzhi Restoration or Western Affairs Movement]
Russian Federation &lt;World History, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Name some things about the history of anti-semitism in France. For 10 points each:
This man was mistakenly imprisoned on Devil’s Island for nearly five years in place of the actual perpetrator, Ferdinand Esterhazy. Émile Zola wrote J’accuse against the unlawful jailing of this man.
At the urging of pope Gregory IX, this French king had around 12,000 Talmuds and other Jewish books burned in Paris. This King halted Henry III’s continental expansion at the Battle of Taillebourg [[“tie-boor”]].
Jews were persecuted by this Nazi puppet government in France during World War II. It was led by Philippe Pétain.
Alfred Dreyfus
Louis IX of France [accept Saint Louis; prompt on Louis]
Vichy France &lt;European History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Richard Feynman was among the scientists who attempted to explain this event. For 10 points each:
Name this January 28, 1986 event caused by the failure of O-ring seals. It killed seven crew members, including one who would have been the first teacher in space.
The disaster prompted President Ronald Reagan to postpone this annual address given by the president. He gave the famous “Touched the face of God” speech instead.
Reagan formed this presidential commission to investigate the disaster. This body found that the Morton- Thiokol Chemical Corporation was at fault for the event.
Challenger disaster [accept equivalents mentioning Space Shuttle Challenger]
State of the Union Address
Rogers Commission &lt;American History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Over 95% of incumbents won re-nomination in primaries in 2018, but there were some exceptions. Answer the following about notable primary losses, for 10 points each:
Joe Crowley lost re-nomination in New York’s 14th Congressional District to this woman, a self-described “democratic socialist” who became the youngest woman elected to Congress.
In this state’s 7th district, longtime representative Michael Capuano lost to progressive upstart Ayanna Pressley. Pressley later won the general election in this state, along with this state’s junior senator, Elizabeth Warren.
In South Carolina’s 1st District, this congressman was defeated by Trump-endorsed Katie Arrington. This congressman resigned as South Carolina governor following a 2009 extramarital affair.
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez [prompt on AOC]
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Mark Sanford &lt;Current Events, AC&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
One leader of this rebellion demanded a beer before being mortally wounded by William Walworth at Smithfield. For 10 points each:
Name this revolt, a 1381 popular uprising against Richard II commonly known by its leader’s name.
One of the Peasants’ Revolt causes was this 14th century pandemic which claimed the lives of over 75 million people across Europe.
Another of the Revolt’s causes was this man’s imposition of a poll tax. His marriage to the Infanta Constance led to an unsuccessful bid for the Castilian throne.
Peasants’ Revolt [accept Wat Tyler Revolt or Great Rising]
Black Death [accept Black Plague or Great Plague or The Plague; prompt on Bubonic Plague]
John of Gaunt [prompt on John or Duke of Lancaster] &lt;European History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Much of this man’s grassroots work paved the way for a 1975 Act that legalized collective bargaining for farm workers in California. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who co-founded the United Farm Workers of America after a grape-growers strike in Delano, California.
This activist co-founded the UFW with Chávez and coined the phrase “Sì, se puede,” which would later be translated and used during the 2008 election by Barack Obama.
Huerta’s activism also included supporting the repeal of this program by which the United States imported manual laborers from Mexico.
César Chávez
Dolores Huerta
Bracero program &lt;American History, JP and AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This first emperor in history defeated Lugalzagesi and dragged him through the gates of Nippur in chains. For 10 points each:
Name this man who created the first known postal system in the world after conquering much of Sumer as the ruler of the Akkadian Empire.
Sargon the Great either conquered or founded this city on the Euphrates. This city, known for its famous “hanging gardens,” was once given a famous law code by Hammurabi.
According to the Chronicle of Early Kings, Sargon defeated an attempted invasion by four “great” generals from this polity, which was led by the King of Awan.
Sargon the Great [accept Sargon of Akkad or Sargon I; prompt on Sargon]
Babylon
Elam &lt;Other History, AK and JP&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
A 37 million dollar project known as the Coconut Palace was built during this man’s administration in preparation for a visit from Pope John Paul II. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator of the Philippines who ordered the assassination of political opponent Benigno Aquino. He was overthrown by the People Power Revolution.
This is the collective name given to the group of powerful advisors to Marcos. Its origin comes from a story where each of the advisors allegedly received a namesake watch from Marcos.
Marcos’ wife, Imelda, lived a lavish lifestyle, supposedly owning over 7,000 pairs of these objects. These objects are now housed in a museum in Marikina.
Ferdinand Marcos
Rolex 12
shoes &lt;World History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
In 1999, NATO forces intervened in this country during Operation Noble Anvil. For 10 points each:
Name this former socialist federation that was formed after the deposition of King Peter II. This state’s breakup led created countries such as Croatia, Serbia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Much of the ethnic strife of the 90s dates back to the atrocities of this Croatian ultranationalist organization formed by Ante Pavelić that cooperated with the Nazis in WWII.
This principle leader of Yugoslavia executed Ustasha members on sight while leading Partisans in WWII. He founded the Non-Aligned Movement with Nehru.
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Ustashe [accept Ustasha or Croatian Revolutionary Movement]
Marshall Joseph Brozovich Tito &lt;European History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Answer the following questions about textile-based art, for 10 points each:
This 70-meter long embroidered cloth depicts the events leading up to the Norman Conquest of England. It was allegedly made by Queen Matilda and her ladies in waiting.
Faith Ringgold and other African American Artists carry on the legacy of this textile tradition with origins in West and Central Africa.
Many Polynesian societies have long traditions of producing highly decorated barkcloth textiles, which are denoted by this name.
Bayeux Tapestry
quilting
Tapa cloth [accept Tapia, Kapa, ngatu, siapo, masi, ahu] &lt;Other Fine Arts, AH&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
The earliest surviving printed book was created during this dynasty. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese dynasty that first printed the Diamond Sutra. Its golden age ended after An Lushan’s Rebellion laid waste to the capital in 764.
Tang dynasty general Gao Xianzhi suffered a devastating loss to the Abbasid Caliphate at this battle. This battle marked the decline of Chinese influence and emergence of Islam in Transaxonia.
Most historians agree that after the Battle of Talas, captured prisoners like Tou Houan taught the Abbasids how to manufacture this product. The invention of this product is sometimes traced to Cai Lun.
Tang dynasty
Battle of Talas River [accept Battle of Artlakh]
paper [accept papermaking or equivalents] &lt;World History, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
In 2018, this Chinese leader abolished term-limits and had his namesake "thought" enshrined in the Chinese Constitution. For 10 points each:
Name this current president of the People's Republic of China.
Xi’s plan to create a "new silk road" under the Belt and Road Initiative are largely overseen by this current Chinese premier.
The most important leg of the southern belt involves Chinese goods passing through Karachi to Gwadar in this Chinese-friendly South Asian country.
Xi Jinping
Li Keqiang
Islamic Republic of Pakistan &lt;Current Events, AH&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
You don’t need to be near a volcanic eruption to feel its effects. For 10 points each:
This volcano’s 1980 eruption grounded more than 1000 flights in the western United States. Interstate 90, along with many other roads in the state of Washington, were closed for more than a week.
The eruption of Mount Huaynaputina in Peru led to a famine in Russia during the reign of this Tsar, who presided over the beginning of the Time of Troubles.
This volcano’s 1883 eruption resulted in 36,000 deaths and a global temperature reduction of 1.2 degrees Celsius. The eruption caused 37 meter tall tsunamis that slammed into nearby Java and Sumatra.
Mount St. Helens [accept Louwala-Clough, Lawetlat'la, or Loowit]
Boris Fyodorovich Godunov [prompt on Godunov]
Krakatoa [accept Krakatau] &lt;Other History, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This man was found carrying the alias “A.J. Hidell.” For 10 points each:
Name this man responsible for the murder of police officer J.D. Tippit. The Warren Commission determined that this man worked alone in a certain crime.
Oswald assassinated this president in Dallas, also wounding Texas Governor John Connolly.
Footage of the assassination shows Louie Steven Witt bizarrely carrying this object during the assassination. Witt claimed that he carried this object to mock Joseph Kennedy’s support of appeasement.
Lee Harvey Oswald
John Fitzgerald Kennedy [accept JFK]
umbrella [accept Umbrella Man] &lt;American History, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
In February 2018, the Senate voted down three bills that would have effectively extended this program. For 10 points each:
Name this Obama-era policy that gave legal status to certain undocumented immigrants who had arrived in the US as minors. President Trump announced the end of this program in September 2017.
One of the failed legalization bills was sponsored by Delaware Senator Chris Coons and this Arizona senator, who was diagnosed with brain cancer in 2017. This man was the 2008 Republican presidential nominee.
The Senate also voted down a proposal that would have withheld federal funds from these places. This term describes municipalities that limit cooperation with federal immigration authorities.
DACA [or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals]
John (Sidney) McCain (III)
sanctuary cities [prompt on “sanctuaries”]
Answer the following about a title that’s been important throughout British history. For 10 points each:
This title, which Owain Glyndwr tried to claim in a failed uprising, is given to the person next in line to the British throne. Although it refers to a Celtic region West of England, the holder of this title has no actual governing authority over that region.
Owain Glyndwr [Glendower], the last native Welsh Prince of Wales, served as a squire to two English Kings before rebelling: first Richard II, then this king also known as Bolingbroke.
One man who held the title of Prince of Wales but never king was this figure who won the Battle of Crecy during the Hundred Years War. He was known as Edward of Woodstock before gaining his most famous nickname.
Prince of Wales
Henry IV
Edward The Black Prince
This uprising’s leader saw blood on an ear of corn and interpreted a solar eclipse as a sign from god to revolt. For 10 points each:
Name this 1831 uprising that targeted plantation owners in Southampton County, Virginia.
This other slave, a blacksmith from Richmond, was subsequently hanged after his plan for starting a slave revolt was discovered. In 2007, Governor Tim Kaine granted him an informal pardon.
This abolitionist attempted to instigate a slave uprising by raiding Harpers Ferry. He was later executed after being captured by Robert E. Lee.
Nat Turner’s Rebellion
Gabriel Prosser [accept either underlined part]
 John Brown
This country celebrates its Children’s Day on the anniversary of a battle at which an army of children armed with sticks and painted-on beards was wiped out. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose city of Humaita was subjected to a lengthy siege, and which had most of its male population wiped out, during the War of the Triple Alliance.
This president of Paraguay, who was killed at the aforementioned Battle of Cerro Corá, arguably sparked the War of the Triple Alliance by seizing control of the Platine basin, thus angering other larger hegemons in the region.
The “Triple Alliance” against Paraguay consisted of Argentina, Uruguay, and this Empire, which was ruled from Rio de Janeiro by Pedro II.
Paraguay
Francisco Solano López
The Empire of Brazil
The mass exodus of members of this polity during a 1948 conflict was termed Al-Nakba. For 10 points each:
Name this state that disputes the West Bank and the Gaza Strip with Israel.
The Gaza Strip is controlled by this Palestinian terrorist organization led by Khaled Mashal. This organization fought with Fatah in 2007, leading to the split of the Palestinian Authority.
Hamas was founded during the first of these uprisings against Israel. The Arabic for these events translates to “shake off”.
Palestine
Hamas
Intifadas
This Pharaoh brought control of Canaan back to the Egyptians, and an unprecedented 14 Sed Festivals were thrown in honor of him. For ten points each,
Name this son of Seti I, who is known as “Ozymandias” in Greek sources. This husband of Nefertari created some temples at Abu Simbel to express just how awesome he was after winning a major battle.
Ramesses II accompanied Seti I during that aforementioned battle at this city; that battle was the largest chariot battle in history. Tutankhamun and Horemheb failed to capture this city in other campaigns.
At the time of Kadesh, this man ruled the Hittite Empire. He moved the Hittite capital from Hattusa to Tarhuntassa.
Ramses II [or Ramses the Great; prompt on “Ramses”]
Battle of Kadesh
Muwatalli II [prompt on” Muwatalli”]
Answer the following about the French Revolution. For 10 points each:
This man headed the Committee of Public Safety during the French Revolution, during which time he campaigned against the Hébertists. The Reign of Terror ended with this leader of the Jacobin faction’s death.
Robespierre’s rule was ended by this event, which saw the arrest and later guillotining of Robespierre and 21 of his associates. It is named for a month of the French Republican Calendar that coincides with July.
The Storming of the Bastille, which kicked off the French Revolution, occurred after King Louis XVI fired this popular finance minister. This man supported the loaning of French money to America during the Revolutionary War.
Maximilien Robespierre
Thermidorian Reaction
Jacques Necker
This man carried out his most infamous action during a performance of <em>Our American Cousin</em>. For ten points each:
Name this man believed that the Civil War had not truly ended after Lee’s surrender to Grant, because Confederate forces were still fighting Union forces. This belief led him to assassinate Abraham Lincoln.
This woman owned a boarding house and was introduced to Booth by Dr. Samuel Mudd. Her boarding house was used as a planning headquarters to kill Lincoln.
While in a barn, Booth was shot and killed by this man. He is presumed to have died in the Great Hinckley Fire.
John Wilkes Booth
Mary Surratt
Boston Corbett
“Into the Jaws of Death” was a photograph of American soldiers taken during this event. For 10 points:
Name this event in which Allied troops stormed 5 French beaches and made their first land gain in Nazi-occupied Europe.
D-Day led to the opening of the Western front of the European theater of WWII. This operation, which was the German invasion of Russia, led to continued fighting on the Eastern front but failed due to losses such as Stalingrad.
This battle, which took place in Western Egypt, coincided with Operation Torch. The Allies reclaimed supply lines in Northern Africa after this battle. Unlike the first battle of its name, it was a decisive victory.
D-Day landings [accept equivalents of “landings”; accept invasion of Normandy and equivalents, accept Operation Overlord]
Operation Barbarossa
Second Battle of El-Alamein [Prompt on Battle of El-Alamein, do not prompt on or accept “First Battle of El-Alamein”]
<strong></strong> The Dardanelles Gun, an enormous bronze cannon, was employed during this event.. For 10 points each:
Name this event that marked the true end of the Roman Empire. During this event, Ottoman Turks repeatedly bombarded the Theodosian Walls for over a month.
This man was the last emperor of the Byzantine Empire, and thus the last emperor of Rome.
Constantine Palaiologos called for a crusade, but only a band of mercenaries led by Giovanni Giustiniani from this Italian city state responded.
Fall of Constantinople [prompt on “siege” or “battle” of Constantinople; accept anything that implies Constantinople was taken]
Constantine XI or Constantine Palaiologos
Genoa
<strong></strong> Benjamin Hawkins designed a set of dinosaur sculptures that were displayed in this structure, whose exterior extensively used the newly-introduced method of sheet glass production. For 10 points each:
Name this massive iron and glass building constructed in London’s Hyde Park that was designed by Joseph Paxton.
The Crystal Palace housed the Great Exhibition of 1851, during which inventor Samuel Colt demonstrated several of these devices that improved upon earlier pepperbox designs. These devices famously “won the west”.
The construction of the Crystal Palace was overseen by a building committee that included this British engineer, who famously built the SS Great Britain and the Great Western Railway.
Crystal Palace
revolvers [prompt on “guns” or “firearms”]
Isambard Kingdom Brunel
<strong></strong> Taking the anniversary of his coronation as a good omen, the loser of this battle decided to forgo the protection of the Aurelian Walls. For 10 points each:
Name this 312 AD battle that took place near the namesake structure over the Tiber. After this battle, the victor brought rebellious African provinces in line by sending them Maxentius’s head.
This winner of Milvian Bridge had earlier issued the Edict of Milan, legalizing Christianity in the Roman Empire. He eventually ended Diocletian’s Tetrarchy and became the sole ruler.
Constantine’s battle standard, the labarum, displayed this religious symbol. Before Milvian Bridge, Constantine was allegedly commanded in a dream to paint this symbol on his soldiers’ shields.
Battle of the Milvian Bridge
Constantine the Great [or Constantine I; or St. Constantine the Great, Equal-to-the-Apostles; prompt on “Constantine” or “Constantinus”]
Chi-Rho
<strong></strong> Contrary to popular belief, this man was not directly involved with the House Un-American Activities Committee because he was a senator. For 10 points each:
Namd this Wisconsin demagogue who once accused the Army of being overrun with Communists. In his Wheeling Women’s Club Speech, this politician claimed to “hold in his hand” a list of 225 Communists in the State Department
In an oft-quoted moment of the Army-McCarthy hearings, this Army lawyer asked McCarthy, “Have you no sense of decency?”
McCarthy’s political career was finished when this news anchor issued a report against him on his show See it Now.
Joseph McCarthy
Joseph (Nye) Welch
Edward R. Murrow
<strong></strong> This government was established after the Minamoto clan defeated the rival Taira clan in the battle of Dan-no-ura, which also caused the death of child emperor Antoku. For 10 points each:
Name this government that was established after the Genpei war and fought off the two mongol invasions of Japan during the Yuan dynasty.
This clan effectively usurped the Minamoto line by acting as regents called Shikken to become effective rulers until the reign of Go-Daigo and the subsequent founding of the Ashikaga shogunate. Their rulers included Yoshitoki and his sister, Masako.
The Ashikaga Shogunate was based in this city of Japan, which was known as Heian during an earlier period. It’s not Tokyo, but the english translation for this city is “capital city.”
Kamakura Shogunate (accept Kamakura Bakufu), prompt on Shogunate or Bakufu
Hojo
Kyoto
<strong></strong> For 10 points each, answer the following about Russia’s conversion to Christianity:
At a meeting with emissaries of several major religions, Vladimir I allegedly rejected this religion because of its prohibition on alcohol. This was the religion of the traveler Ibn Fadlan, who wrote an early description of Russian geography.
These two princely brothers were martyred in a cathedral after their conversion by their relative Sviatopolk the Accursed. They are known in Russian orthodoxy as Saints David and Roman.
Vladimir I, Boris, and Gleb were all descendants of this Viking who founded the Kievan Rus’ and names the dynasty that ruled Russia until the time of Ivan the Terrible.
Islam
Boris and Gleb
Rurik
<strong></strong> For 10 points each, name these covert government operations.
This CIA program notably experimented with LSD and hypnosis in order to force suspects to confess their crimes through psychological torture.
This weapons development program in New Mexico was not confirmed until the bombing of Hiroshima. Even though there were over 100,000 people involved, only a few dozen people knew its real purpose, one of whom is J. Robert Oppenheimer
Operation Mongoose was aimed at assassinating this leader in various tacky ways, including by giving him a botulism-laced milkshake and spiking one of his trademark cigars with psychedelic drugs to publicly humiliate him.
Project MKULTRA
Manhattan Project
Fidel Castro
<strong></strong> This man destroyed many religious structures in his “Dissolution of the Monasteries.” For 10 points each, name:
This King of England who created the Anglican church in order to divorce his first wife.
Henry VIII’s first wife, Catherine, was the daughter of these two monarchs of a certain Mediterranean country.
This man served as the first lord chancellor of Henry VIII, and was the chief religious authority in England due to his position as cardinal. This man was succeeded by Thomas More after his 1530 death.
Henry VIII
Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon
Thomas Wolsey
<strong></strong> Danica Roem recently won a seat in the House of this state’s 13th Congressional district. For 10 points each:
Name this state, where Tim Kaine served as Governor from 2006 to 2010.
Roem is the first person to have won election to a state legislature while out with this identity. Althea Garrison was outed with this identity, and subsequently lost other elections to the Massachusetts House.
Roem’s campaign focused on the Physical Privacy Act, a kind of anti-transgender legislature which is known by this two word term. Other pieces of legislature known by this term include North Carolina’s HB-2.
Virginia
openly transgender [accept trans woman or trans; do not accept or prompt on “trans man”]
bathroom bill
<strong></strong> This man undermined the power of the Golden Horde after defeating them at the Battle of the Terek River in 1395. For 10 points each:
Name this Mongol leader who may have acquired his characteristic limp while stealing sheep and died before he could invade China.
Tamerlane conquered this city’s namesake sultanate using flaming camels. Although it regained territory under the Lodi Dynasty, this city was sacked again by the forces of Babur in 1526.
After capturing this Ottoman sultan, who acquired his nickname from his quick conquest of Anatolia, at the Battle of Ankara, Tamerlane is said to have kept him captive in an iron cage and used him as a footstool.
Timur the Lame [accept Tamerlane]
Delhi
Bayezid I the Thunderbolt [accept either number or nickname; accept Bajazeth or Bayezid Yildirim for Bayezid]
<strong></strong> This ruler was confronted by the Fronde upon acceding as a child, and was advised by Cardinal Mazarin. For 10 points, name:
This bourbon king of France who fought in the war of the Spanish Succession and was known as “The Sun King” for his absolutism.
In the Edict of Fontainebleau, Louis XIV repealed this earlier edict passed by Henry IV, himself a former Protestant, that granted French protestants the right to practice their religions.
This mercantilist served as the finance minister for Louis XIV for the first two decades of his reign: despite his best attempts, France became even more bankrupt due to the king’s numerous wars. He was succeeded by Louvois.
Louis XIV
Edict of Nantes
Jean Baptiste Colbert
<strong></strong> Historiography is a millennia old practice. For 10 points, name some stuff about ancient history recorded by old people.
This historian went on a expedition with the Ten Thousand, a group of Greek mercenaries unders the command of Cyrus the Younger, and wrote the Hellenica and Cyropaedia.
This author of “The Prince” wrote a series of discourses on the Roman historian Livy, the author of works such as Ab Urbe Condita.
This work written by Thucydides notably did not include the battle of Notium, at which Lysander destroys the Athenian Navy, due to the author’s presumed death in 410 B.C.
Xenophon
Niccolò Machiavelli
The History of the Peloponnesian War
<strong></strong> The cartoonist Thomas Nast has often been described as “the most influential artist of the 19th century.” For 10 points each, name some things about the illustrations that he made.
Nast sometimes depicted this man as a human moneybag, and his face was depicted on a vulture’s body in the cartoon “Let us Prey”. Samuel Tilden made a name for himself as a governor of New York by taking on this man.
Nast’s cartoons in Harper’s Weekly were instrumental in mobilizing public sentiment against this political machine that Boss Tweed led.
Nast drew a detailed illustration juxtaposing lines from this document with pictures of atrocities against African Americans in the South. This document was written to support a failed presidential campaign by George McClellan and omitted a controversial “peace plank”.
William Marcy “Boss” Tweed
Tammany Hall [accept Sons of Saint Tammany, Society of Saint Tammany, or the Columbian Order]
1864 Democratic Party platform [accept the Chicago Platform]
<strong></strong> The losers of this battle were betrayed by Ephialtes. For 10 points each:
Name this battle in which a group of Spartan warriors led by Leonidas defended a narrow pass against the Persian forces of Xerxes I.
Another Spartan king, Cleombrotus I, was defeated at the Battle of Leuctra by this city state. The elite soldiers of this city state were known as the Sacred Band.
Sparta’s rise to power is often attributed to the militaristic reforms instituted by this lawgiver, who established the agoge- a harsh training regimen for young boys.
Battle of Thermopylae
Thebes
Lycurgus
<strong></strong> In Catholicism, this process can occur either “latae sententiae” or “ferendae sententiae.” For 10 points each--
Name this practice by which a religious community can suspend one of its members. In Eastern Orthodox, people subjected to this action cannot receive the Eucharist.
During the Investiture Controversy, Pope Gregory VII excommunicated this Holy Roman Emperor who later had to walk to Gregory’s castle at Canossa and stand barefoot in the snow for days as penance in order for the excommunication to be lifted.
This Czech priest was excommunicated by Pope Alexander V during the Bohemian Reformation and was later burned at the stake at the Council of Constance.
excommunication [accept word forms, like being excommunicated; prompt on descriptive answers, like “kicking someone out of a Church”]
Henry IV [accept Heinrich IV]
Jan Hus [also accept John Hus or John Huss]
<strong></strong> As president of the World Bank, this man shifted that organization’s focus to poverty reduction. For 10 points each:
Name this man who served as Secretary of Defense under JFK and LBJ. He is known as one of the “Whiz Kids” who rebuilt the Ford Motor Company after World War II.
McNamara served as Secretary of Defense during this conflict. US involvement in this conflict was authorized by the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution and ended with the evacuation of Saigon.
This general was the chief commander of U.S. forces during the Vietnam War. His scorched-earth tactics and carpet-bombing strategy destroyed support for the war.
Robert S. McNamara
Vietnam War [accept Second Indochina War]
William (Childs) Westmoreland
Answer the following about postwar politics in France. For 10 points each:
Valery Giscard d’Estaing’s presidency ended rather abruptly when he was found to have accepted gifts from the cannibalistic emperor of this modern-day country, Jean-Bedel Bokassa.
This French party gained power under leaders like Francois Miterrand and Vincent Auriol. It was the successor party to Leon Blum’s Popular Front.
This President from 1958-1971 was the former leader of the Free French during World War II. The beginning of his presidency coincided with the start of the Fifth Republic.
Central African Republic [accept Central African Empire or CAE]
Parti Socialiste paccept PS, Socialist Party]
Charles de Gaulle [CDG]
Name some European canals, for ten points each:
This Greek city on an isthmus had an ancient greased track called the diolkos replaced with a canal in the 19th century.
A canal in Russia connects these rivers, the two longest in European Russia. A city named for one of these rivers was known under Soviet rule as Stalingrad, and the other of these rivers is the namesake of one of Russia’s largest Cossack groups.
This Italian city on an archipelago in the Adriatic Sea is known for its many canals, including those that run past its St. Mark’s Cathedral and Doge’s Palace.
Corinth
Volga River and Don River
Venice [accept Venezia]
During this battle, the so-called “Sacred Way” provided troops and supplies to this battle, and was instrumental in the French defense. For 10 points each:
Name this 303-day World War One battle fought between France and Germany near a small French city on the Meuse River.
This French general who commanded the Second Army at Verdun became a national hero and was called the “Lion of Verdun” for his achievements. During the Second World War, he was the leader of Vichy France.
During the Vichy regime, the previous French motto of “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity” was replaced by this other tripartite motto.
Battle of Verdun
Philippe Petain
work, family, fatherland [or travail, famille, patrie]
Answer the following about the end of the Ethiopian empire, for 10 points each:
That end came with the overthrow of Haile Selassie, the last emperor of an Ethiopian dynasty named for and supposedly descended from this Biblical king.
Haile Selassie was replaced by this Communist military regime that would eventually come to be led by Mengistu Haile Mariam. This regime committed the “Red Terror” atrocities and attempted to collectivize agriculture with disastrous results.
Several years after the fall of the Empire, Ethiopia’s Ogaden region was invaded by Siad Barre, the president of this neighboring country with its capital at Mogadishu.
King Solomon [or Shlomo or Jedidiah or Lemuel]
Derg [prompt on Committee]
Somalia
Answer the following about racism against Asian-Americans in the Western US. For 10 points each:
This deadliest incident of anti-Asian violence in US history, in which at least 28 Chinese miners were killed, occurred in a Wyoming mining boomtown in 1885.
This ethnicity was targeted by a policy of internment during World War II after they were associated with the regime that perpetrated the Pearl Harbor attack. Depending on their birthplace, they could be classified as nisei or isei.
The passage of the Chinese exclusion Act was heavily supported by this head of the Workingman’s Party of California who coined the slogan “The Chinese Must Go”.
Rock Springs Massacre
Japanese-Americans
Denis Kearney
Gerald Kaufman labelled this party’s 1984 manifesto “the longest suicide note in history”. For 10 points each:
Name this British center-left political party that rivals the Conservatives. This party’s former prime ministers include Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.
The Labour party formed a majority government in 1945 under this prime minister who succeeded Winston Churchill.
Attlee remains one of modern Britain’s most popular prime ministers due to his creation of the National Health Service, which was advocated for in this 1942 report on the “great evils” of British society.
Labour Party
Clement Attlee
Beveridge Report
<strong></strong> Answer the following about the African leaders of the 1980s. For 10 points each:
This Sudanese leader who took power in 1989 attracted controversy in later decades for harboring Osama Bin Laden at the urging of his spiritual advisor, Hassan al-Turabi.
Samuel Doe served as president of this country throughout the 1980s. His successor would later sever and eat his ear on tape before plunging this country ruled by an elite descended from American immigrants into a civil war.
Muhammadu Buhari, this country’s current president, briefly held power there after a military coup in 1982. He won this country’s most recent election partially by winning its major cities of Lagos and Abuja.
Omar al-Bashir
Liberia
Nigeria
<strong></strong> Everyone makes mistakes, but these people’s mistakes caused a large number of unnecessary deaths. For 10 points each:
This general lost three legions in the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest. After this general killed himself, Augustus would often cry out, “Return my legions!”
This French emperor foolishly tried to put his brother Joseph on the Spanish throne and lost about three hundred thousand soldiers in the ensuing Peninsular War.
This commander tried to charge a 2500-strong Native American force with a cavalry of around 700 at the Battle of the Little Bighorn, which became known as this man’s “last stand”.
Publius Quinctilius Varus
Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either underlined; do not accept or prompt on “Napoleon III” or “Louis-Napoleon”]
George Armstrong Custer
<strong></strong> Answer the following about numerically-named periods of Chinese history, for 10 points each:
Cao Cao, Sun Quan, and Liu Bei fought for control of China during this era between the Han and Jin Dynasties. It is the namesake of a novel by Luo Guanzhong.
Following the collapse of the Tang dynasty, several dynasties of mixed Han Chinese and Turkic origin took the capital of Chang'an as the provinces fragmented into independent states. Name either the number of dynasties or the number of kingdoms associated with that period.
The Three Feudatories Rebellion, which overtook much of southern China, took place during the early rule of this dynasty of Manchu origin, China's last before it was declared a republic.
Three Kingdoms Period [accept Sānguó]
Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms [accept either underlined answer]
Qing Dynasty
<strong></strong> Sam Rayburn of Texas is the longest-serving holder of this position. For 10 points each:
Name this powerful post currently occupied by Paul Ryan.
This Georgia congressman was swept into the speakership by a 1994 wave election he called the “Republican Revolution”. This man led impeachment efforts against Bill Clinton.
This document authored by Gingrich outlined the Republican agenda during the 1994 election. This document, which listed eight promises, was partially responsible for Republican gains in that election.
Speaker of the United States House of Representatives [prompt on “Speaker”]
Newt Gingrich
Contract with America
<strong></strong> The first holder of this office served as the foreign minister for his country’s government-in-exile until 1946. For 10 points each:
Name this office that has been held by people like Trygve Lie, U Thant, and Ban-Ki-Moon.
This second secretary-general defused the Congo Crisis and established an Emergency Force to end the Suez Crisis. En route to ceasefire talks in Northern Rhodesia, he was killed in an airplane crash.
This former Portuguese prime minister is the current secretary-general and previously served as the UN’s High Commissioner for Refugees. He was chosen over rivals such as former New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark .
Secretary General of the UN [prompt on partial answer]
Dag Hammarskjold
Antonio Guterres
Some empires that have more water than land. For 10 points each, name these thalassocracies.
This empire was the traditional enemy of the Romans, who destroyed them and may have sown their fields with salt in the third Punic War.
Carthage was founded as a dependency of Tyre, both of which were part of this seafaring civilization. Greek letters are derived from this civilization’s namesake alphabet.
This Indian empire, ruled by kings such as Raja Raja and Rajendra, established control over much of maritime Southeast Asia in the early 11th century. It was part of a trio of kingdoms with the Chera and the Pandya.
Carthage
Phoenician civilization [or Phoenicia; or Phoenicians]
Chola Empire
Answer the following about medieval Hungary. For 10 points each:
This first king of Hungary was canonized after his death. Known as Vajk [VIKE] before his conversion to Catholicism, this ruler was crowned by Pope Sylvester II.
King Bela IV lost the battle of the Sajo River to these people, whose invasion of Europe was halted after the death of Ogedei Khan.
This Holy Roman emperor and namesake of a dynasty that succeeded the Carolingians defeated a party of Hungarian raiders at the Battle of Lechfeld, thus earning himself the epithet “the Great”.
St. Stephen [accept Stephen I, Istvan I, St. Istvan; prompt on Stephen or Istvan]
Mongols
Otto I [accept Otto the Great]
In the 19th century, lots of Brits thought they needed a political revolution in their country. For 10 points each:
Name this reform movement spearheaded by the working class. Among other things, it demanded universal male suffrage and a secret ballot, as laid out in this movement's namesake manifesto.
Chartist reforms centered on opening the franchise and membership of this lower house of the British Parliament.
Chartism wasn’t always peaceful. Led by John Frost, this 1839 rebellion in Wales saw 10,000 Chartists violently clash with authorities in an effort to free imprisoned dissidents.
Chartism
House of Commons
Newport Rising
Answer the following about some pre-Columbian American cultures known for their use of metal. For 10 points each:
A group of cultures in the Great Lakes basin are conventionally named for their use of this metal, which was exploited almost nowhere else in the Americas.
The use of an alloy called guanine by the Taino people on this island has led some scholars to theorize that it was visited by Africans before Columbus, who founded the city of La Isabela on this island.
This South American empire was known for its ornate gold sculptures, a room full of which were demanded by Francisco Pizarro when he captured their emperor, Atahualpa.
copper cultures
Hispaniola
Inca empire [accept Tawantinsuyu]
Viktor Orban visited this former leader in April 2016 to discuss the settlement of Syrian refugees in Europe. For 10 points each:
Name this chancellor of West Germany who oversaw German reunification efforts during the 1990s.
Helmut Kohl was a member of the Christian Democratic Union, currently led by this woman who has served as German chancellor since 2005.
Kohl partnered with François Mitterrand on this treaty named for a Dutch city which established the European Union.
Helmut Kohl
Angela Merkel
Treaty of Maastricht
During this battle, the <em>Reina Cristina</em> unsuccessfully attempted to ram the USS <em>Olympia</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1898 naval battle in which the US Asiatic Squadron decisively defeated the Spanish Pacific Squadron.
This commander led the American flotilla during the Battle of Manila Bay. He later became the only person in US history to ever achieve the rank of Admiral of the Navy.
The US was brought to the brink of war with Germany by a 1899 civil war in this Pacific island nation. That crisis in this nation was resolved when a typhoon heavily damaged both fleets.
Battle of Manila Bay
George Dewey
Samoa
This empire was formed in the 7th century AD following the end of the Zhangzhung kingdom. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Himalayan empire which flourished until the 9th century and had a capital at Lhasa.
This man founded the Tibetan Empire and created the Tibetan alphabet. He also introduced Buddhism to the region and commissioned the Jokhang Monastery in Lhasa.
Tibetan troops fought alongside the army of this Islamic State that defeated a Tang army led by Gao Xianzhi at the Battle of the Talas River in 751, soon after the revolt of Abu Muslim brought this dynasty into power.
Tibetan Empire
Songtsen Gampo
Abbasid Caliphate
In this conflict, the communist National Liberation Front attempted to overthrow the reigning King George II. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict which occurred between 1946 and 1949, considered to be the first proxy war of the Cold War. After this conflict, a military junta called the Regime of the Colonels took power.
The Greek Civil War is often paired with another civil war in this neighboring country, where Mustafa Kemal Ataturk instituted secular reforms.
The Greek and Turkish Civil Wars saw one of the first applications of this doctrine, in which the United States would provide aid to any nation threatened by communism.
Greek Civil War
Turkey [accept Turkiye]
Truman Doctrine
The Angolan slave John Punch, a distant ancestor of Barack Obama, was tried in this colony in 1640. For 10 points each:
Name this American colony whose legislature was known as the House of Burgesses.
This first English settlement in Virginia, and in America, experienced a Starving Time during the winter of 1609 to 1610. Its leader John Smith established a “no work, no food” policy.
Virginia’s capital was moved away from Williamsburg by this governor of Virginia after his mansion there was besieged during Bacon’s Rebellion.
Virginia
Jamestown
William Berkeley
This 1697 treaty ended a coalition war against France known as the War of the Grand Alliance or the League of Augsburg. For 10 points each,
Name this treaty signed in the modern-day Netherlands that returned France’s Indian and Canadian colonies to it and some German cities to the Holy Roman Empire.
The Treaty of Ryswick was signed by France under the rule of this absolutist monarch nicknamed the “Sun King” known for his elaborate palace at Versailles.
The Dutch Republic agreed to the terms of the treaty when it was ruled by this man, who invaded England in the Glorious Revolution alongside his wife Mary. He ruled the principality of Orange earlier in his life.
Treaty of Ryswick
Louis XIV
William III of England [accept William II of Scotland; William of Orange]
This empire’s royal guard corps and much of its army was entirely made up of women. For 10 points each:
Name this Fon empire centered in modern day Benin, which was a French colony until 1960.
The Fon people in Dahomey practiced this West African religion. Blended with elements of Catholicism, this religion is prevalent in Haiti.
This man’s father was a prince of the Allada kingdom in Benin, before his brother enslaved him in 1724. This man led the Haitian Revolution before his capture and imprisonment in France.
Dahomey
Voodoo
Toussaint L’Ouverture
Answer the following about ethnic groups currently advocating for independence. For 10 points each:
These people held an independence referendum in September whose results were overwhelmingly in favor of independence. The Peshmerga and YPG are military units controlled by these people.
The Spanish government largely disapproves of the independence movement for these people of northeastern Spain. This ethnic group has an autonomous community which contains Barcelona.
China has suppressed a secessionist movement in this region with extremely strict electronic monitoring and surveillance. Most of that suppression has been targeted at the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which advocates for this region’s Uighurs [wee-gurs].
Kurdish people
Catalans [accept Catalonians]
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
This conflict pitted the Russian Empire against an alliance of Britain, the Ottoman Empire, and France. For 10 points each:
Name this war fought on a namesake Russian peninsula on the Black Sea, the setting of the Battle of Balaclava.
This largest city on the Crimean Peninsula was besieged by allied forces and fell after 11 months. This city was home to the Russian Black Sea Fleet.
This depressed general was the commander of all British forces in Crimea. His misunderstood orders at the Battle of Balaclava led to the infamous Charge of the Light Brigade.
Crimean War
Sevastopol
Lord Raglan [or FitzRoy James Henry Somerset, 1st Baron Raglan]
In August 2017, Donald Trump controversially claimed that acts of violence in this city occurred “on many sides.” For 10 points each:
Name this city in which a white nationalist march to preserve a statue of Robert E. Lee ended in a man driving into a crowd of counter-protesters.
This white nationalist, whose attempt to speak at Michigan State University was recently canceled due to student protests, played a prominent role in the Charlottesville rally. This man runs the National Policy Institute and was punched on camera in January 2017 while giving an interview.
This waitress and paralegal died as the result of the Charlottesville incident. Shortly after the march, a memorial for this person included her sign at the protest, which reads “NO PLACE FOR HATE!”.
Charlottesville, Virginia
Richard Spencer
Heather Heyer
One student leader at this university gave the “Bodies upon the gears” speech during a protest at its Sproul Hall. For 10 points each,
Name this university at which Mario Savio led the Free Speech Movement.
The Berkeley protests, among many others, occurred in the wake of the United States’ involvement in this war.
The Vietnam War catalyzed the rapid emergence of this left-wing student activist movement. Its manifesto was known as the Port Huron Statement, and Weather Underground became a notable off-branch of it.
University of California, Berkeley (accept Cal, prompt on UC)
Vietnam War [or Second Indochina War]
Students for a Democratic Society [or SDS]
Marshall Applewhite founded the group that perpetrated this event, then co-led it with Bonnie Nettles. For 10 points each:
Name this event carried out by a religious group based in San Diego in 1997 to board a spacecraft and reach the “Next Level.” A description is fine.
The Heaven’s Gate mass suicide is sometimes compared to the Peoples Temple in Jonestown, Guyana, where socialist followers of Jim Jones were forced to use this substance laced with potassium cyanide to end their lives.
David Koresh was shot and killed by his right-hand man Steve Schneider, just as Jim Jones was. Koresh’s Branch Davidian compound was sieged for 51 days in this state’s city of Waco, which Alex Jones reported as an ATF conspiracy from its capital, Austin.
mass suicide of Heaven’s Gate members [or anything about a suicide and the transit of the Hale-Bopp comet]
(grape) Kool-Aid [or (grape) Flavor-Aid; or “Cool Aid” or anything else in the same vein]
Texas
The ruling in this court case overturned <em>Pace v. Alabama</em>’s ban on interracial marriage. For 10 points each:
Name this landmark 1967 case which struck down anti-miscegenation laws nationwide.
The majority opinion for Loving v. Virginia was written by this Chief Justice, who was appointed by President Eisenhower. This former governor of California presided over the Court in Brown v. Board of Education.
This Associate Justice filed a concurring opinion in Loving v. Virginia and declared “I know it when I see it” when asked to define obscenity in Jacobellis v. Ohio.
Loving v. Virginia
Earl Warren
Potter Stewart
There were some turbulent times in Japan’s history. For 10 points each:
This third and final Japanese Shogunate, which lasted from 1603 until the Meiji Restoration 200 years later, was founded by a man named Ieyasu from the shogunate's namesake family.
Tokugawa Ieyasu was able to conquer and unify all of Japan, therefore ending this nearly 150 years-long “Warring States period”.
Prior to the Sengoku period, this shogunate ruled Japan under a feudal system for over 200 years.
Tokugawa Shogunate
Sengoku Period
Ashikaga Shogunate
Name some short-lived governments established by Americans. For 10 points each:
While president of this republic, Mirabeau Lamar printed currency known as “redbacks”. This republic was created after victory at the Battle of San Jacinto and annexed to the US in 1845.
The Committee of Safety, led by Lorrin Thurston, created this republic. Sanford B. Dole was its first and last president until William McKinley annexed it in 1898.
This man nicknamed “the Gray-eyed man of destiny” took over Nicaragua’s government and ruled it for a year, a practice known as “filibustering”. He was defeated by a coalition led by Costa Rica.
Republic of Texas
Republic of Hawai’i [do not accept “Kingdom of Hawaii”]
William Walker
Answer the following about early radicals in British history. For 10 points each,
John Lilburne, a leader of the socialist Levellers, debated this victor of the English Civil War at Putney. This man commanded the New Model Army and later had Lilburne imprisoned.
During this king’s reign, the Middlesex By-Election Controversy occurred over whether to seat the radical John Wilkes. This king is more notable for having lost the American Revolutionary War.
John Ball, a radical cleric during this conflict, advocated for equality of women with the couplet “When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?”. One side during this conflict was led by Wat Tyler and Jack Straw.
Oliver Cromwell
George III [prompt on “George”]
Peasants’ Revolt [do not accept or prompt on “Peasants’ War”]
Answer the following about China’s early history. For 10 points each:
Fu Hao was a consort of Wu Ding, the king who led this dynasty to its zenith. Fu Hao’s tomb is one of the best preserved tombs from this dynasty.
The ruins of the Shang capital, near the city of Anyang, are filled with these objects. Used by the Shang for divination and sometimes extracted from tortoises, these objects contain the first recognizable examples of Chinese writing.
The Shang dynasty ended after their defeat at the Battle of Muye [MOO ye]. The new Zhou dynasty invoked this doctrine, which claims that good rulers are blessed by divinity and poor rulers must be replaced as they have lost divine favor.
Shāng dynasty
oracle bones [prompt on “bones” or “turtle bones”]
Mandate of Heaven
The city of Konya [CONE-yah] has it all: mosques, museums, and great-power struggles for supremacy. For 10 points each:
The Sultanate of Rum, established by these people, was based at Konya. This Turkic dynasty won the Battles of Dandanaqan and Manzikert.
After World War I, Konya was promised to this country by the Treaty of Sevres. This country’s namesake front of World War I contained the Battles of the Isonzo, Caporetto, and Vittorio Veneto, as well as several more defeats for its incompetent chief of staff, Luigi Cadorna.
Konya was the site of an 1831 battle between an Ottoman force and Ibrahim Pasha, the son of this rebellious Egyptian leader of Albanian origin who named the dynasty that ruled Egypt until 1952.
Seljuks
Italy
Muhammad Ali
This force was created by King Philip II and it only fought one major battle at the battle of Gravelines. For 10 points each:
This force that was defeated by the Royal Navy commanded by Francis Drake in 1588.
The Spanish Armada was commanded by this nobleman, who is prone to seasickness and has no almost no experience commanding any sort of military force, on land or at sea.
The Spanish Armada was created in response to the execution of this Catholic queen of Scotland, she was the mother of James I of England.
Spanish Armada
Alonso Pérez de Guzmán, the Duke of Medina Sidonia [accept either underlined part]
Mary, Queen of Scots [prompt on “Mary”; do not accept “Mary I” or “Bloody Mary”]
This man used “Guided Democracy” as an excuse to become an autocrat. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator who gave his support to the PKI and was overthrown in the 30 September movement, which replaced him with Suharto.
Both Sukarno and his successor Suharto ruled from Jakarta in this Southeast Asian country.
After Sukarno’s overthrow, Suharto committed a brutal purge of Communists that mostly targeted this Indonesian ethnic minority.
Sukarno
Republic of Indonesia
Chinese-Indonesians
Answer the following about industrialization in early America. For 10 points each:
This British immigrant introduced modern textile manufacturing techniques to America in his Pawtucket mill by memorizing factory plans before he left.
This state industrialized heavily very early on, leading to the creation of mill towns such as Lowell and Lawrence.
An important primary source on early industrialization is the Lowell Courier, which published the personal narratives of female factory workers. The Courier was an institution of this type, others of which included the New York World and Chicago Tribune.
Samuel Slater
Massachusetts
newspapers
For time immemorial, the mistresses of powerful men have played key roles in shaping world history. For ten points each:
This Athenian’s lover Aspasia was a noted intellectual, and according to Plato may have written this man’s famous Funeral Oration during the Peloponnesian War.
This king of England’s many mistresses included Barbara Palmer, an ancestor of Princess Diana. This Stuart king came to power in the Restoration and survived the Rye House and Popish Plots.
This official mistress of Louis XV became a powerful political and diplomatic figure, as well as a patron of Enlightenment philosophy and art.
Pericles
Charles II
Madame de Pompadour
Sometimes, imperialism doesn’t go so smoothly. Just ask the British. For ten points each:
In 1756, the Nawab of Bengal stormed a British fort, capturing up to 70 soldiers and locking them in this small prison. Over the next day, most of the men held in this dungeon died of suffocation or heat stroke.
The British East India Company wanted to enforce a monopoly on this commodity in their American colonies, but Samuel Adams and the Sons of Liberty dumped 342 chests of it into Boston harbor in 1773.
In the late 1800s, the British tried to secure control over Sudan, but in 1884 a Sudanese army trapped British forces led by this man in Khartoum. Ten months later, this man and the entire British army were massacred.
Black Hole of Calcutta
tea
Charles George “Chinese” Gordon
Answer the following questions about people and things that Martin Luther didn’t like. For ten points each:
Luther's 95 Theses criticize the sale of these documents which offered to absolve sins of the living or dead. Johann Tetzel notably sold these documents in Germany.
In another treatise, Luther encouraged discrimination and violence against these people, who were earlier expelled from Spain by the Alhambra Decree.
Luther also condemned the greed of this merchant banker from Augsburg and financier of the Habsburg family. At his death, this man bequeathed his nephew Anton a 2 million guilder fortune.
Indulgences
Jews
Jakob Fugger the rich (or Jakob Fugger of the Lily, or Jakob II)
Identify the following cities that supposedly got their names by mistake. For ten points each:
This second-largest city in Ohio was named for a Revolutionary War officer, but the “a” in his name was dropped to save space in this city’s first newspaper. The Indians, Cavaliers, and Browns all play in this city.
This Alaskan city and terminus of the Iditarod allegedly received its name after a British cartographer wrote “? Name” in a blank portion of his map.
Though disputed by historians, an urban legend says that this Michigan town gained its name by being the Number 6 stagecoach stop outside of Detroit.
Cleveland
Nome
Novi
The U.S. Embassy in Finland was given a vague warning about this attack two weeks before it occurred. For ten points each:
Name this 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over a small European village. This bombing claimed 270 lives, including those of 187 Americans.
Lockerbie is a town in this northern country of the United Kingdom whose capital is Edinburgh.
The Lockerbie Bombing was carried out by agents of this longtime Libyan dictator, who denied that he personally ordered the attack. The man was executed following his defeat in the 2011 Libyan Civil War.
Lockerbie bombing
Scotland
Muammar Gaddafi
This nation’s independence was preceded by a period known as “National Awakening.” For ten points each:
Name this Southeast Asian country which gained sovereignty after Dutch forces evacuated from Java and Sumatra in 1949.
Indonesia’s independence and early history was dominated by this leader, who impressively united his diverse nation with minimal bloodshed. In 1967, he was deposed by Suharto.
After years of political instability in the 1950s, Sukarno created this political system based on traditional village politics and his own authoritarian goals.
Indonesia
Sukarno
Guided Democracy
During this election, Anna Chennault helped one side derail peace talks in Vietnam. For ten points each:
Name this election year in which backlash against the Vietnam War dissuaded President Lyndon Johnson from seeking reelection.
Johnson chose not to run again in 1968 after almost losing the New Hampshire primary to this anti-war Senator from Minnesota. During the Democratic Convention, this man encouraged his supporters to “stay clean for Gene.”
This man won the Democratic nomination in 1968, but narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon. Before becoming Lyndon Johnson’s vice-president, this man sponsored the Civil Rights Act in the Senate.
Election of 1968
Eugene J. McCarthy
Hubert Humphrey
The Kapp Putsch temporarily overthrew this government in 1920. For ten points each:
Name this German government which arose following World War One, named for the city where its constitution was drafted. Gustav Stresemann oversaw a brief period of stability for this government.
This economic phenomenon plagued the Weimar Republic in the early 1920s due to political and economic instability. This phenomenon was exacerbated by French occupation of the Ruhr Valley.
This German war hero was the second and final president of the Weimar Republic. Though he defeated Adolf Hitler in the 1932 election, this man elevated Hitler to the Chancellorship the next year.
Weimar Republic
hyperinflation
Paul von Hindenburg
A Native American slave named Tituba accused several people during these events. For ten points each:
Name these prosecutions in colonial Massachusetts in which twenty men and women were executed for allegedly consorting with the devil.
This Puritan minister and scientist supported the Salem Witch Trials, but cautioned against relying on spectral evidence. This man’s father Increase opposed the Trials while President of Harvard University.
During the peak of the trials, Giles Corey was accused of being a warlock, and after refusing to enter a plea, was executed in this manner. Corey’s final words while being killed in this way were “more weight.”
Salem witch trials
Cotton Mather
being pressed to death (or Peine forte et dure, crushed to death, or equivalents)
2017 brought success for populist movements across Europe. For ten points each:
Marine Le Pen, the populist head of the National Front Party, finished second behind Emmanuel Macron in this country’s May 2017 presidential election.
In Germany’s September 2017 elections, this right wing populist party won 12.6% of the vote to become the third biggest party in the Bundestag.
Despite pending fraud charges, Andrej Babiš and his moderate populist ANO Party finished first in this country’s October 2017 elections
France
Alternative for Germany (or AfD)
Czech Republic (or Czechia, do not accept “Czechoslovakia”)
Answer the following questions about people name-dropped in the hit musical <em>Hamilton</em>. For ten points each:
This second President of the United States is told to “sit down” in a Hamilton song titled for his administration. This man’s feud with Alexander Hamilton contributed to his failure to win reelection.
In the song “A Winter’s Ball,” the musical claims that this woman named her tomcat after Hamilton. Her 1759 marriage to the American commander-in-chief brought the latter considerable wealth and status.
Thomas Jefferson asks this woman to “be a lamb” and open a letter in the song “What’d I Miss?” This enslaved woman bore Jefferson six children between 1795 and 1808.
John Adams
Martha Washington (prompt on “Washington”)
Sarah “Sally” Hemings
This movement was effectively crushed by an 1813 mass trial in York. For ten points each:
Name this popular movement in nineteenth century England which fought industrialization. Today, the name of this movement is applied to those who fight technological progress.
The Luddites primarily opposed the mechanization of this industry, long a key part of the British economy because of the isles’ plentiful wool. Manchester was a major hub of this industry.
A common form of Luddite protest was the destruction of these items. An 1812 law made breaking one of these machines a capital offence.
Luddite Movement
textiles (accept weaving or equivalents)
stocking frames (accept mechanical looms, prompt on “looms”)
This event was planned and supported by a coalition of oligarchs from the Satsuma and Chōshū Provinces. For ten points each:
Name this event in 19th century Japan in which the Tokugawa Shogunate collapsed and a modernizing teenage emperor gained true imperial authority.
The Meiji Restoration was immediately preceded by this military conflict, in which pro-imperial forces decisively defeated allies of the Shogunate.
The Tokugawa Shogunate’s terminal decline began when this American commodore forcibly opened Japan to foreign trade. This man’s older brother Oliver led the U.S. to victory in the Battle of Lake Erie.
Meiji Restoration (or equivalents mentioning Meiji)
Boshin War (prompt on “Japanese Revolution”)
Matthew Perry
This man paid his way through Hampton Institute by working as a janitor. For ten points each:
Name this civil rights leader of the early 20th century and first president of the Tuskegee Institute. This man advocated for gradual social change in contrast to W.E.B. Du Bois.
In his “Atlanta Exposition” Address, Washington encouraged black Americans to “cast down” this object and view hard work and education as the pathway to equality.
In 1901, Washington dined with Teddy Roosevelt in this building, becoming the first African American to formally do so. After a backlash, no other black American was invited to dine in this building for nearly 30 years.
Booker T. Washington
bucket
The White House
The death of President Francisco Solano López marked the end of this war. For ten points each:
Name this destructive South American conflict in which a namesake coalition crushed Paraguay and claimed much of its territory.
The Triple Alliance consisted of Argentina, Uruguay, and this large Amazonian nation led by Emperor Pedro II.
Success in the War of the Triple Alliance significantly contributed to the decline of this institution in Brazil, with many of its victims being impressed into military service.
War of the Triple Alliance
Brazil
slavery
After decades of conflict, the French Wars of Religion climaxed with the enticingly titled War of the Three Henrys. For ten points each:
The War of the Three Henrys pitted Catholics against these French Protestants, led by Henry of Navarre. 15 years earlier, up to 30,000 of these people were killed during the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre.
The Huguenots’ chief enemy was a Henry from this French house. Both that Henry and a powerful cardinal from this house were assassinated on the orders of King Henry III.
Though Henry of Navarre emerged as the last Henry standing, he converted to Catholicism to claim the French crown. However, Henry promulgated this edict giving Huguenots considerable religious freedom.
Huguenots
House of Guise
Edict of Nantes
The descendants of Genghis Khan, known as <em>genghisids</em>, accomplished a great many things in a great many places. For ten points each:
This grandson of Genghis founding the Yuan Dynasty of China, though his attempts to conquer Japan and Vietnam were unsuccessful. Samuel Taylor Coleridge penned a noted poem titled for this man.
Another grandson of Genghis, Batu Khan, established this colorfully named empire stretching across Russia from the Danube to Siberia.
This distant genghisid struggled to build a kingdom worthy of his ancestors, but finally found success in India and became the first Mughal emperor.
Kublai Khan
Golden Horde
Babur
Procopius wrote a lively, if historically and logically dubious, account of this man’s reign. For ten points each:
Name this Byzantine emperor and husband of Theodora who sought to reconquer the Western Roman Empire. He also constructed the Hagia Sophia.
Justinian’s western conquests were led by this brilliant general who waged successful campaigns against the Vandals and Ostrogoths.
Earlier in his career, Belisarius saved Justinian when fans of this sport ran amok in Constantinople. The “Blues” and the “Greens” supported teams in this sport, which took place in the Hippodrome.
Justinian I (accept Justinian the Great)
Belisarius
Chariot Racing (accept equivalents)
These people carried out the 1809 Boyd Massacre, during which up to 70 Europeans were cannibalized. For ten points each:
Name these indigenous people first contacted by Abel Tasman. These people fought the British in the Flagstaff War and are organized into iwi.
The Maori live in this island nation whose largest cities are Auckland and Wellington.
The Maori acceded to British sovereignty over New Zealand in this 1840 treaty, though conflict later erupted over each side’s differing interpretations of the document.
Māori
New Zealand
Treaty of Waitangi
Konrad Adenauer and Ludwig Erhard receive credit for this nation’s <em>Wirtschaftswunder</em>, or economic miracle. For ten points each:
Name this European country formed by merging three Allied zones of Occupation in 1949. It was also known as the Bonn Republic.
West Germany’s relationship with its eastern counterpart improved during the administration of this chancellor, who advocated rapprochement through his Ostpolitik policy.
During much of its existence, West Germany battled this communist terror group led by Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof and funded by East Germany.
West Germany (prompt on “Germany”)
Willy Brandt
Red Army Faction
August Spies and three other men were hanged for their supposed involvement in this event. For ten points each:
Name this 1886 bombing at a union rally which killed seven police officers. The assembled workers were protesting conditions at the McCormick Machine Company.
The Haymarket Affair was catastrophic for the reputation of this labor union founded by Uriah Stephens. Though representing 800,000 members before the bombing, its membership fell to just 100,000 afterward.
When the Knights of Labor collapsed, this female labor activist shifted her allegiance to the United Mine Workers, for which she led strikes across the country. A noted liberal magazine is named for the woman.
Haymarket Square Affair (or Riot, or Massacre, or the like)
Knights of Labor
Mother Jones (or Mary Harris Jones)
Answer the following about the anti-communist revolutions of 1989. For ten points each:
1989’s revolutionary wave began in Poland with the dramatic victory of this Polish labor union led by Lech Wałęsa. Long banned, this party forced free elections in which it won 99 out of 100 possible seats.
While communist regimes toppled around the world, this German Cold War landmark stood until November 1989, when a confusing statement by Günter Schabowski caused protesters to tear it down piece by piece.
Perhaps the final geopolitical drama of 1989 occurred in this nation, where strongman Nicolae Ceauşescu and his wife Elena were overthrown on December 22 and executed on Christmas Day.
Solidarity
Berlin Wall
Romania
This war was supposed to be avoided through the First and Second Partition Treaties. For ten points each:
Name this 13-year conflict over control of an Iberian nation. It was sparked by the death of the childless King Charles II.
The War of the Spanish Succession pitted Austria, Britain, and Prussia against this French “sun king” who wanted his grandson Philip to claim the Spanish crown.
During the conflict, Allied forces were led by Eugene of Savoy and this wealthy British noble. His victories at Blenheim and Malplaquet helped maintain the fragile anti-French alliance.
War of the Spanish Succession
Louis XIV (prompt on partial answer)
John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough
Though often overshadowed, women made many meaningful contributions to the American Civil Rights Movement. For ten points each:
This NAACP secretary sparked the Montgomery Bus Boycott by refusing to give up her seat to a white passenger in 1955.
During the 1964 Democratic Convention, this woman and vice-chair of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party gave a stirring account of her treatment in the Jim Crow South.
In 1968, this New York legislator became the first African American women elected to Congress, and later finished fourth in the 1972 Democratic presidential primaries.
Rosa Parks
Fannie Lou Hamer
Shirley Chisholm
Answer the following questions about the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire. For ten points each:
The conquest of the Aztecs was led by this conquistador from Medellín. After crushing the Aztecs and founding Mexico City, this man became the first Governor of New Spain.
Early in his campaign, Cortés captured this Aztec emperor and attempt to rule Mexico through him. The details of this man’s captivity and eventual death remain unclear.
After Moctezuma’s death, Cortés attempted to flee the Aztec capital in this event, but suffered heavy losses and a personal wound while doing so.
Hernán Cortés
Moctezuma II
La Noche Triste (accept the Sad Night, or the Night of Sorrows)
Many important borders are distinguished by latitudinal parallels. For ten points each:
The 38th Parallel divides this peninsula into communist and democratic halves. In 1950, Kim Il-sung’s army crossed the 38th Parallel, beginning a war named for this region.
39 degrees and 43 minutes is the approximate latitude of the Mason-Dixon Line, which was intended to settle a dispute between Pennsylvania and this family of early Maryland governors.
American expansionists like James Polk demanded that the latitude 54°40' define the boundary between the U.S. and Britain in this northwestern region.
Korea
Calvert Family
Oregon Territory
You know you’re feared when people start calling you “the Butcher.” For ten points each:
This Spanish leader was dubbed “the Butcher” by American yellow journalists for his bloody attempts to crush the Cuban independence movement through civilian “reconcentration.”
This general’s father was known as “the Butcher of Asculum,” leading this man’s opponents to call him “the Little Butcher.” This Roman leader lost to Julius Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalus and was later killed in Egypt.
American and Cuban enemies of this Argentine revolutionary dubbed him “the Butcher of La Cabaña.” After helping Fidel Castro take control of Cuba, this former doctor was captured and executed in Bolivia.
Valeriano Weyler
Pompey the Great (prompt on partial answer)
Che Guevara
This work was completed after the Visigothic sack of Rome to reject claims that Christianity was to blame for the Western Roman Empire’s struggles. For ten points each:
Name this work of ancient Christian theology which presents history as a running battle between God and the devil.
This North African philosopher and Bishop of Hippo wrote The City of God.
In The City of God, Augustine faults this woman for killing herself after being raped because impurity comes from the mind, not the body. This woman’s violation and suicide sparked the overthrow of the Roman monarchy.
The City of God
St. Augustine of Hippo
Lucretia (accept Lucrece)
During this period, Harry Truman created the Federal Employees Loyalty Program to ensure civil servants’ proper Americanism. For ten points each:
Name this period of intense anti-communism during the late 1940s and early 1950s, epitomized by Joseph McCarthy’s investigations.
During the Second Red Scare, this committee in the House of Representatives scrutinized those suspected of communist leanings, including the blacklisted Hollywood Ten.
The House Un-American Activities Committee’s most famous prosecution involved this State department official accused of spying for the Soviets. Whittaker Chambers’ testimony led to this man’s conviction for perjury.
Second Red Scare
House Un-American Activities Committee (accept HUAAC)
Alger Hiss
Arthur St. Clair first established American rule over what is now this state. For ten points each:
Name this mid-western state which joined the Union in 1837. Though its capital was initially Detroit, an 1847 constitutional amendment moved it to Lansing.
Before becoming a state, Michigan lost a bloodless war with Ohio for control of this city. Today the fourth largest in Ohio, this city shares its name with a Spanish town El Greco painted a notable “View of.”
This statesman was instrumental in exploring and settling Michigan, and later served as the state’s governor and senator. As the 1848 Democratic presidential nominee, this man vocally supported popular sovereignty.
Michigan
Toledo
Lewis Cass
Pope Sixtus IV sanctioned the creation of this institution in 1478. For ten points each:
Name this tribunal which for centuries investigated heresy in a certain Iberian nation. Apparently, nobody expects it.
The establishment of the Inquisition was inspired by fears that these people were undermining Christianity by continuing to practice Judaism. This spanish term can be contrasted with moriscos.
This Dominican friar was the first Grand Inquisitor, becoming infamous for his zeal and cruelty.
Spanish Inquisition
Conversos
Tomás de Torquemada
For ten points each:
Name this 1894 “army” which marched on Washington D.C. to protest government inaction on unemployment. This march ended after its leaders were protested for trespassing on the U.S. capitol.
The demands of Coxey’s Army were consistent with this late 19th century ideology, which encouraged democratic control of banks and railroads. James Weaver ran for president with this movement in 1892.
Many populists wanted to increase coinage of this precious commodity in order to spark inflation and debt reduction. Under the Bland-Allison Act, the federal government ramped up circulation of this metal.
Coxey's Army
Populist Movement (or Populist Party, or People’s Party)
silver (or silver dollars)
One battle during this offensive led to the near-complete destruction of the city of Huế. For ten points each:
Name this 1968 offensive launched during the Vietnamese New Year. Though a tactical U.S. victory, it help turn the American public against the Vietnam War.
Among the sites targeted in the Tet Offensive was this building in Saigon. In 1975, thousands of people gathered at this building hoping to escape the oncoming North Vietnamese Army.
This Vietnamese commander-in-chief opposed the Tet Offensive but assented to it amidst political pressure from Le Duan and Hồ Chí Minh. After the war, this man wrote numerous works on military strategy.
Tet Offensive
U.S. Embassy
Võ Nguyên Giáp
Answer the following questions about patriotic songs in history. For ten points each:
This revolutionary song was written to celebrate an upcoming war with Austria and Prussia, and today is France’s national anthem. It urges “To arms, citizens” and calls for “impure blood” to soak French fields.
“Das Lied der Deutschen” is the national anthem of this nation, but that song’s original lyrics demanding continental domination were removed following World War Two.
José Martí wrote the poetic lyrics of this song amidst the Cuban War of Independence. The Sandpipers sang a notable version of this song, which remains widely popular in Cuba.
“La Marseillaise”
Germany
“Guantanamera”
Soviet intervention saved this country from losing territory to Somalia in the Ogaden War. For ten points each:
Name this East African nation, which suffered a terrible famine in the mid 1980s and was earlier ruled by Haile Selassie.
Ethiopia fell under this regime following the deposition of Haile Selassie. Led by Mengistu Haile Mariam, this communist dictatorship killed hundreds of thousands of people in the Qey Shibir terror.
The Derg frequently battled separatists from this region, which achieved independence from Ethiopia in 1993. Today, sporadic violence persists between Ethiopia and this country.
Ethiopia
Derg (or Dergue)
Eritrea
A 1946 riot in this prison required mortar fire and two platoons of Marines to subdue. For ten points each:
Name this notoriously inescapable federal prison in San Francisco Bay, nicknamed “The Rock.”
Perhaps the most famous Alcatraz inmate was this Chicago gangster and bootlegger who spent four and a half years at Alcatraz after being convicted of tax evasion.
Though Alcatraz was supposedly escape proof, Frank Morris and these brothers attempted to escape The Rock in a prison-made boat in 1962. The actual fate of Morris and these brothers remains unknown. Note: Last name sufficient.
Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary
Al Capone
John and Clarence Anglin
During this conflict, France sided with her traditional Protestant enemies to counter Habsburg encroachment. For ten points each:
Name this massively destructive religious war which decimated much of Central Europe in the seventeenth century. It was ended by the Peace of Westphalia
The Thirty Years’ War began after this action was inflicted on two Catholic emissaries of Emperor Ferdinand II in Prague. Unlike a similar event in 1419, none of those targeted for this action died.
This 1620 battle during the Thirty Years’ War was a major victory for Ferdinand II and the Catholic League, but its potential impact incited more Protestants nations to join the fray.
Thirty Years’ War
defenestration (or being thrown out of a window)
Battle of White Mountain
A B-25 bomber accidentally collided with this building in July 1945. For ten points each:
Name this iconic Art Deco skyscraper in New York City, the tallest in the world until the completion of the World Trade Center. In a 1933 film, King Kong climbed this 102-story building.
This man was President of Empire State, Incorporated during the skyscraper’s construction. Nicknamed “The Happy Warrior,” this man earlier served as governor of New York and was the first Catholic presidential nominee.
3,400 workers helped build the Empire State Building, including several hundred iron workers from this Native American tribe. This member tribe of the Iroquois Confederacy was once led by Joseph Brant.
the Empire State Building
Al Smith
Mohawk
Answer the following questions about the <em>Diadochi</em>. For ten points each:
The Diadochi were generals and successors of this Macedonian king, the son of Philip II and conqueror of the Persian Empire.
This diadochus was given control of Egypt after Alexander's death, starting a namesake Greco-Egyptian dynasty that lasted until Cleopatra. He shares his name with a later mathematician from Alexandria.
This one-eyed general amassed a vast empire before being defeated and killed by the other diadochi. His son Demetrius took control of Macedon and began a dynasty named for this man.
Alexander the Great (or Alexander III of Macedon)
Ptolemy I (or Ptolemy Soter)
Antigonus I (or Antigonus Monophthalmus)
This government unsuccessfully attempt to preserve colonies in Mozambique, Angola, and Guinea Bissau. For ten points each:
Name this authoritarian regime dominated by António Salazar. It shares its name with Getúlio Vargas’ similarly authoritarian Brazilian government.
The Estado Novo governed this European country with capital at Lisbon.
In 1974, the Estado Novo was finally overthrown in this liberal military coup. This revolution gets its name from the flowers protesters placed in rifle barrels.
Estado Novo
Portugal
Carnation Revolution
This region fell under Communist control after the Battle of Chamdo. For ten points each:
Name this mountainous region of Southwestern China which staged a violent uprising against socialist reform in 1959. An international movement seeks to “free” this region.
The Tibetan government-in-exile is headed by this man, who also leads the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism. This man won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989.
Before the Dalai Lama was driven out of Tibet, he governed from the Potala Palace in this city, the historical and current capital of Tibet.
Tibet
14th Dalai Lama (accept Tenzin Gyatso)
Lhasa
Bill Clinton’s administration was often rocked by scandal. For ten points each:
Clinton was impeached in 1998 for lying about his affair with this White House intern. After the affair became public, this woman and her blue dress became internationally known.
Much of the evidence concerning Clinton’s relationship with Lewinsky was uncovered through the investigation of this other Clinton controversy. This scandal involved a failed real estate investment made with Jim and Susan McDougal.
Beyond the Lewinsky and Whitewater Scandals, Clinton was less rationally accused of orchestrating the death of this Deputy White House Counsel and boyhood friend of Clinton’s who took his own life in 1993.
Monica Lewinsky
Whitewater Affair (accept equivalents mentioning “Whitewater”)
Vince Foster
This organization’s trading posts were known as <em>kontors</em>. For ten points each:
Name this German trading federation which dominated maritime commerce in Northern Europe during the High Middle Ages.
The Hanseatic League primarily operated in this body of water, bounded by the North Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia. In this sea, the Hanse were often targeted by the Victual Brothers piracy guild.
This port city was known as the “Queen of the Hanseatic League” for being the organization’s most prominent member. This city was the first to be firebombed by the RAF during World War II.
Hanseatic League (or Hanse)
Baltic Sea
Lübeck
Answer the following questions about important historical theses. For ten points each:
This eighteenth century English historian argued that Christianity hastened the title event of his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
In a namesake thesis, Henri Pirenne argues that the Muslim conquests enabled this man’s Western European empire to prosper. This uncle of Roland became the first Holy Roman Emperor in 800 AD.
This impactful 1893 thesis claims that American values and priorities were indelibly shaped by western expansion.
Edward Gibbon
Charlemagne (accept Charles I, Charles the Great, or Carolus Magnus)
Frontier Thesis (or Turner Thesis)
The Soweto Riots protested the teaching of Afrikaans under this system. For ten points each:
Name this system of discriminatory anti-black laws which governed South Africa from 1948 to 1991.
This organization opposed Apartheid and is now South Africa’s largest political party. Nelson Mandela led Spear of the Nation, this organization’s militant wing.
This South African President legalized the ANC in 1990 and released Mandela from prison, sparking the end of Apartheid.
Apartheid
African National Congress (or ANC)
F.W. de Klerk
One side used the reverse slope defense to great effect in this battle. For ten points each:
Name this 1815 battle in Belgium, the final clash of the Napoleonic Wars. This decisive Allied victory led to the final defeat and exile of Napoleon.
This British General commanded Allied forces at Waterloo. Earlier in his career, this man led Anglo-Spanish troops in the Peninsular War.
The Duke of Wellington received timely assistance from this eccentric Prussian general. Two years before Waterloo, this man temporarily believed he was pregnant with an elephant.
Battle of Waterloo
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington (accept either)
Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher
John of Gaunt fled to Scotland to escape this event. For ten points each:
Name this major 1381 uprising of the English lower classes against taxes levied by King Richard II.
The Peasants’ Revolt was led by this man from Kent. Amidst a meeting with the king, this man drew the ire of the Mayor of London, who then mortally wounded him in a fight.
One of the primary causes of the Peasants’ Revolt was this devastating pandemic which killed roughly half of England’s population and greatly raised the value of peasant labor.
Peasants’ Revolt (or the Great Rising)
Walter “Wat” Tyler
the Black Death (accept Black Plague, prompt on “bubonic plague”)
Lachlan Macquarie arrived to restore stable British government following this event. For ten points each:
Name this 1808 rebellion in which army officers took control of New South Wales, allegedly because of a dispute over a certain alcoholic beverage.
The Rum Rebellion occurred in and around Sydney, the largest city in this country.
This man was the British governor deposed in the Rum Rebellion. Almost 20 years earlier, this was similarly overthrown by Fletcher Christian in the mutiny on the Bounty.
Rum Rebellion
Australia
William Bligh
The Troodos Mountains carve out one side of this island’s northern Mesaoria plain. For ten points each:
Name this Mediterranean island once led by Makarios III and with capital at Nicosia.
The Green Line divides control of Cyprus between the Republic of Cyprus and an unrecognized country established by this nation. This nation invaded Cyprus in 1974 to prevent a union with Greece.
According to the London-Zürich Agreements which created an independent Cyprus, this country was allowed to maintain sovereignty over its Cypriot military installations at Akrotiri and Dhekelia.
Cyprus
Turkey
The United Kingdom (accept Great Britain)
This storm inspired Kanye West to remark that “George Bush doesn’t care about black people.” For ten points each:
Name this 2005 hurricane which brought massive destruction to the American Deep South, especially in New Orleans’ Ninth Ward.
During Hurricane Katrina, up to 20,000 New Orleans residents who could not leave the city gathered in this stadium, often in squalid and dangerous conditions. This stadium is home to the New Orleans Saints.
This Director of FEMA during Hurricane Katrina was heavily criticized for his handling of the crisis, though President Bush notoriously stated that this man was doing a “heckuva job.”
Hurricane Katrina
Louisiana Superdome (accept Mercedes Benz Superdome)
Michael D. Brown
Sadly, the phenomenon of civil war persists in the modern era. For ten points each:
This Middle Eastern nation has endured a bloody civil war since 2011, pitting dictator Bashar al-Assad, resistance fighters, ISIS, and the Kurdish Rojava against each other.
This Middle Eastern country is also embroiled in civil war, with former President Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi and his Saudi allies clashing with former President Ali Abdullah Saleh and his Iran-backed Houthi allies.
Though long running civil war in Sri Lanka ended in 2009, tensions remain between the Sri Lankan government and this ethnic group whose “Liberation Tigers” were defeated in the brutal conflict.
Syria
Yemen
Tamil
This man’s strait-laced character and suffix earned him the ironic nickname “Bobby Three Sticks.” For ten points each:
Name this former Director of the FBI and Special Counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
In October 2017, Mueller’s team indicted this man on charges of money laundering. This lobbyist is accused of masking millions of dollars in payments from the Ukrainian government.
This man serves as the White House’s lead attorney in matters relating to Mueller’s investigation. This man shares his name with a former Detroit Tigers second baseman.
Robert Mueller III
Paul Manafort
Ty Cobb
Saint James the Moor-slayer led Asturian troops in the early phase of this conflict. For ten points each:
Name this 700 year period in which Christian forces gradually reclaimed the Iberian peninsula from Muslim kingdoms.
These two Catholic monarchs completed Reconquista in 1492 after conquering Granada. That same year, the duo funded an expedition led by Christopher Columbus.
This final Muslim ruler in Spain attempted to live out his days peacefully, but like many Spanish Muslims, oppressive Christian rule led him to emigrate.
La Reconquista
Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon
Emir Muhammad XII (accept Boabdil)
The motivating fear behind this policy was spurred by the Niihau Incident. For ten points each:
Name this American policy during World War Two which confined members of certain ethnic group to various relocation camps.
Japanese internment was unsuccessfully challenged in this 1944 court case. In a 6-3 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that the need for national security trumped the plaintiff’s individual rights.
This term describes second generation Japanese Americans, including Fred Korematsu. Despite the injustice of internment, many members of this group served in the U.S. military.
Japanese Internment
Korematsu vs U.S.
Nisei
In Ancient Rome, ambitious men built political careers by climbing a ladder of offices known as the <em>Cursus Honorum</em>. For ten points each:
The pinnacle of the Cursus Honorum was this office, the highest executive power within the Roman Republic. In this office, two men shared a single, year-long term.
The second highest rung of the Cursus Honorum was this office, which maintained a mix of judicial, administrative, and military responsibilities.
The Cursus Honorum was formalized under the reign of this renown general and brief dictator-for-life. An enemy of Gaius Marius, this man chose to spare the life of Marius’ nephew, Julius Caesar.
Consul
Praetor
Lucius Cornelius Sulla
The fake Kensington Runestone claimed that these people explored as far west as Minnesota. For ten points each:
Name these seafaring Scandinavian warriors who raided and traded their way through early Medieval Europe.
Though famous for their violent exploits in Western Europe, Vikings merchants helped this large Eastern European city develop into a regional power. Its Golden Gate sits on the right bank of the Dnieper river.
Vikings also made up this elite unit of Byzantine bodyguards, valued for their size and loyalty to the emperor.
Vikings
Kiev (accept Kyiv, or Kievan Rus)
The Varangian Guard
Much of the anger preceding these events surfaced during the Sleepy Lagoon murder trial. For ten points each:
Name these 1943 riots in which white American GIs targeted Latino men for wearing a certain style of fabric-heavy clothing.
The Zoot Suit Riots occurred in this city, the largest in California. 22 years later, the Watts Riots similarly led to violence and destruction in this city.
Rioting returned to LA in 1992 in response to the police beating of this man and the acquittal of his attackers. Amidst the riots, this man asked “can we all just get along?”
Zoot Suit Riots
Los Angeles (accept LA)
Rodney King
This man purged communist members of his army in the 1926 Canton Coup. For ten points each:
Name this Chinese leader and protégé of Sun Yat-Sen. His kidnapping in the Xi’an Incident led to a united Chinese front against the Japanese in World War Two.
Following World War Two and his defeat in the Chinese Civil War, Chiang and his supporters fled to this island and established a separate authoritarian government. This island was formerly known as Formosa.
During his time in Taiwan and mainland China, Chiang led this nationalist political party. Today, it is still one of Taiwan’s major parties.
Chiang Kai-Shek
Taiwan
Kuomintang (accept Guomindang, or KMT, or GMD)
This man was wounded while helping his father capture the city of Ceuta. For ten points each:
Name this Portuguese prince whose interest and funding helped spark the Age of Exploration.
Henry’s fascination with exploration was in part fueled by the legend of this man, who supposedly ruled a vast Christian kingdom in the east. Later Europeans assigned this man’s identity to the Emperor of Ethiopia.
Though Portuguese voyages never left the Gulf of Guinea in Henry’s lifetime, this Portuguese captain sailed as far as India in 1498, becoming the first European to do so.
Henry the Navigator
Prester John
Vasco da Gama
In this battle, Joseph Hooker’s First Corps suffered heavy losses in Miller’s Cornfield. For ten points each:
Name this devastating 1862 battle in Maryland, the bloodiest single day battle in U.S. history. President Lincoln used this mild Union victory to announce the Emancipation Proclamation.
This man led Union forces at the Battle of Antietam. Known both for his crippling indecision and popularity with the army, this general later challenged Lincoln for the presidency in 1864.
McClellan was aided at Antietam by the discovery of Confederate Special Order 191 wrapped around three of these items. Union General William T. Sherman was a consummate consumer of these items.
Battle of Antietam (or Battle of Sharpsburg)
George B. McClellan
cigars
This economic program includes the “Three Arrows” of monetary easing, fiscal stimulus, and structural reform. For ten points each:
Name this set of policies designed to revive a long-stagnating East Asian economy.
Abenomics take their name from Shinzō Abe, the prime minister of this nation. This country’s pacifist constitution was primarily drafted by the United States following World War Two.
In Japan’s October 2017, this conservative party led by Abe won a supermajority of seats. A similarly named party in the United Kingdom was once led by Nick Clegg.
Abenomics
Japan
Liberal Democratic Party (accept LDP or Jimintō or Liberal Democrats)
This civilization began to mass produce cylinder seals during its Uruk period. For ten points each:
Name this first great Mesopotamian civilization which pioneered large-scale agriculture and cuneiform.
Sumerian cities constructed these massive temple complexes atop raised platforms. These structures were possibly built to house various gods.
The Great Ziggurat was built near this Sumerian city on the mouth of the Euphrates River. This city is commonly suggested to be the birthplace of Abraham.
Sumer (or Sumeria)
ziggurats
Ur
This movement began with the Declaration of Brijuni and promoted the <em>Panchsheel</em>, or five restraints. For ten points each:
Name this international political movement which rejected association with either communist or capitalist political blocs.
The five founding fathers of the Non-Aligned Movement included this first president of Ghana. This strong advocate for Pan-Africanism was deposed in a US-backed coup in 1966.
The Non-Aligned Movement suffered serious divisions after the Soviet Union’s invasion of this nation in 1980. In response, the U.S. funded mujahedeen fighters in this nation, including future Taliban leaders.
Non-Aligned Movement (or NAM)
Kwame Nkrumah
Afghanistan
In the late 16th centuries, Russian tsars began to make their kingdom quite large. For ten points each:
Russia’s expansion was fueled by the conquest of this vast region, stretching from the Ural Mountains to the Pacific. Today, this region covers 77% of Russia’s land area.
During the conquest of Siberia, Russian authorities often perpetrated genocide on indigenous peoples, include this Northern Pacific ethnic group. A chain of northern Pacific islands are named for them.
Many of the conquest’s worst excesses occurred during the reign of this peaceful Russian empress. This daughter of Peter the Great gained power by deposing Ivan IV, who her niece-in-law Catherine the Great later executed.
Siberia
Aleuts (or Aleutians)
Elizabeth
This man used his Grupo Colina death squad to perpetrate the Barrios Altos massacre. For ten points each:
Name this South American dictator of Japanese descent who faced international condemnation for his corruption and crimes against humanity.
Fujimori ruled and is now imprisoned in this mountainous South American country with capital at Lima. Despite his violent record, Fujimori brought considerable economic stability to this country.
During his reign, Fujimori successfully but brutally battled this leftist terror organization led by Abimael Guzmán.
Alberto Fujimori
Peru
Shining Path (prompt on “Communist Party of Peru”)
In 1959, a U.S. Senate committee convened to determine the five greatest senators in American history. For ten points each:
The oldest member selected for the so-called “Senatorial Hall of Fame” was this Kentucky statesman. He arranged the “Corrupt Bargain” with John Quincy Adams and negotiated the Missouri Compromise.
By comparison, the most recent senator selected for the honor was this conservative, isolationist senator from Ohio. With Fred Hartley, this man names a 1947 act curbing the power of labor unions.
Along with Clay, Taft, Daniel Webster, and John Calhoun, the committee selected this liberal senator from Wisconsin, nicknamed “Fighting Bob,” who ran for president as the Progressive Party nominee in 1924.
Henry Clay, Sr.
Robert A. Taft
Robert M. La Follette Sr.
This city was often defended with an iron chain around the Golden Horn, and through the use of Greek Fire. For 10 points each:
Name this capital of the Byzantine empire. It was renamed for a “great” Christian Roman emperor.
In 626, Constantinople repelled a siege from this empire’s ruler Khosrau II. This Persian empire, which followed the Parthians, defeated the Romans at battles like Edessa under rulers like Shapur I.
This Byzantine emperor defeated the Sassanids at the 627 Battle of Nineveh. Unfortunately for this emperor’s reputation, the resulting peace was ended when the Muslims conquered all of Mesopotamia and North Africa.
Constantinople
Sassanian Empire [or Sassanids]
Heraclius [Flavius Heraclius Augustus] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about an Islamic empire in West Africa:
First, name this empire, which was conquered by Moroccan forces at the Battle of Tondibi. After being founded by the thirty-year Sonni dynasty, it was ruled for a century by the Askia dynasty.
This commodity was used as currency in the Songhai Empire. Mahatma Gandhi protested a British tax on it by leading a March to the ocean to make this substance.
The most successful ruler of Songhai, Sonni Ali, established this city as his capital. In 2012, it became a capital once again, this time of the Malian breakaway state of Azawad.
Songhai Empire
salt
Gao &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the irresistible rise of Henry Ford:
Ford rose to fame after his use of the assembly line allowed him to introduce this affordable car in 1908. This car was designed by Joseph Galamb and Eugene Farkas, and came in “any color…so long as it is black.”
Model T parts were produced at this Michigan factory complex, which was the largest integrated factory in the world when it opened in 1928. Walter Reuther led workers during the Battle of the Overpass at this factory complex.
Reuther headed the United Automobile Workers, a union that’s now affiliated with a descendant of this union. This union, which was founded by Samuel Gompers, merged with the CIO in 1955.
Ford Model T
Ford River Rouge Complex [accept similar answers including the word Rouge]
AFL [or American Federation of Labor; accept AFL–CIO] &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about English culture under Henry VIII:
Henry VIII brought Renaissance music to England by importing a group of viol players of this religion. The word “ghetto” comes from the name of the area where members of this religion were forced to live in Venice.
Henry VIII was a huge fan of this activity, which was a centerpiece of the meeting at the Field of the Cloth of Gold. Henry II of France died participating in this activity.
It wasn’t all Jews and jousts under Henry—he also intensified the use of this secret court for prosecuting powerful people. This court, named for the room in which it was held, was formally established by Henry VII.
Judaism [or Jews]
jousting
Star Chamber &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about American presidents who died on July 4th, 1826:
This man was the second president to die on that date, and also the second president of the U.S. His presidency saw the XYZ affair and the Quasi-War with France.
Another casualty of that day was Thomas Jefferson, whose criticism of Adams led to these laws. These laws criminalized making false statements about the government and allowed the president to deport non-citizens.
In response to the Alien and Sedition Acts, Jefferson secretly wrote this pro states-rights document. Along with a similar document by James Madison, this document outlined the “Principles of ‘98.”
John Adams
Alien and Sedition Acts [prompt on partial answer]
Kentucky Resolutions [or Kentucky Resolves; prompt on Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions or Resolves] &lt;LL&gt;
This text is the major source for Saint Hilda’s work at the Synod of Whitby. For 10 points each:
Name this text written at Jarrow in the early- to mid-700s. This text popularized the Western European use of “A.D.” for dates.
This 9th-century king of Wessex supposedly translated Bede’s Ecclesiastical History into Old English. This man is usually considered the first King of England, and he’s the only one nicknamed “The Great.”
Alfred also sponsored the creation of a Chronicle named for these people. These people, the main medieval inhabitants of modern England, took their hyphenated name from two Germanic tribes that settled there.
Ecclesiastical History of the English People [or Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum; prompt on answers that mention the Venerable Bede without the word “Ecclesiastical,” which is required]
Alfred the Great
Anglo–Saxons &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the territorial expansion of the United States in the early 1800s:
Andrew Jackson expanded white settlement by expelling these Native Americans through the Trail of Tears. The Indian Removal act targeted this group, along with the Creek, Seminole, Choctaw, and Chickasaw.
Horace Greeley urged “Go West, young man” as an expression of this belief. This almost-rhyming two-word phrase describes the inevitability of the U.S. expanding all the way across North America.
Manifest destiny was a major part of the presidential campaign of James K. Polk, who advocated annexing all of Oregon with this slogan. This slogan was finally denied when Polk agreed to draw the line at the 49th parallel.
Cherokee
manifest destiny
Fifty-four Forty or Fight! &lt;JR&gt;
During this election, an elector from Oregon was dismissed for having served as postmaster. For 10 points each:
Name this election won by a ticket that featured William A. Wheeler as vice president. Nathan Clifford chaired an Electoral Commission during this election year.
Rutherford B. Hayes won in 1876 despite losing this measure of the total number of people who voted for each candidate. Hillary Clinton recently lost the electoral college to Donald Trump despite winning this vote.
Also in 1876, Peter Cooper became the first candidate from this left-wing third party. This party got its name by attacking the gold standard and advocating paper money.
United States Presidential Election of 1876
popular vote
Greenback Labor Party [accept National Independent Party] &lt;MK&gt;
A January executive order called for defunding cities with this designation. For 10 points each:
Name this designation, which usually limits law enforcement’s ability to ask about immigration status. Texas is attempting to pass a law to ban this designation.
In 2007, this city became the first in the U.S. to issue ID cards to undocumented immigrants, allowing them to report crimes and use the library. The plan was given legal consuls by students at thiscity’s Yale Law School.
On top of letting undocumented immigrants practice law and receive in-state tuition, California allows them to apply for these things. Over 800,000 of these things were given to undocumented immigrants in the last 2 years.
sanctuary designations [or sanctuary city, county, town, etc.]
New Haven, Connecticut
driver’s licenses [prompt on partial answer] &lt;IKD&gt;
This man illegally ate an Ortolan bird at his last meal in 1996. For 10 points each:
Name this politician, whose 110 “propositions” included increasing the minimum wage and reducing the length of the legal workweek.
As president, Mitterrand approved the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior, which had been protesting French testing of this type of weapon. Hiroshima and Nagasaki were bombed with kind of weapon in 1945.
As Interior Minister in 1955, Mitterrand tried to quash violent protests in this French colony. The FLN rose to power in this African country after it gained independence from France in the 1962 Évian accords.
François (Maurice Adrien Marie) Mitterrand
thermonuclear bombs [accept atomic bombs; accept hydrogen bombs]
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria [or Algérie; or al-Jazair; or Dzayer] &lt;LL&gt;
This country’s <em>Estado Novo</em> was overthrown in the 1974 Carnation Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this European country ruled for much of the 20th century by the dictator António de Salazar.
Unsurprisingly, Salazar was a big fan of this longtime dictator of Spain, who ruled from 1939 to 1975. His party was known as the Falange, and he was supported by the Carlists.
The Carnation Revolution led to the independence of every Portuguese colony except Macau. Macau was given back to China in this decade.
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]
Francisco Franco (Bahamonde)
1990s &lt;LL&gt;
A major trigger for this event was the fraud during the 1986 “snap elections.” For 10 points each:
Name this peaceful revolution in which dictator Ferdinand Marcos was forced out of power, and the wife of a senator who had been assassinated the year before became the first female President in Asia.
The People Power Revolution took place in this Southeast Asian country. The majority of the demonstrations during the revolution took place on Epifanio de los Santos Avenue in this country’s capital, Manila.
The People Power Revolution is sometimes named for this color, since protesters wore ribbons of this color in memory of Benigno Aquino. A rebellion named for clothing of this color took place near the end of the Han dynasty.
People Power Revolution [or EDSA Revolution; accept but do NOT otherwise reveal Philippine Revolution of 1986; accept but do NOT otherwise reveal Yellow Revolution]
Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]
yellow [accept Yellow Turban Rebellion; accept Yellow Scarves Rebellion; accept Huangjin zhi luan] &lt;AF&gt; Tiebreaker
This is the oldest documented Semitic language. For 10 points each:
Name this native language of the Assyrian and Babylonian empires. It was spoken in a namesake empire founded by Sargon over four thousand years ago.
Akkadian used this writing system, which was originally developed for Sumerian. This writing system is named for its “wedge-shaped” marks, which were produced by reed styluses on clay tablets.
After the Gutian invasion destroyed the Akkadian Empire, Sumer had a “Renaissance” under the Third Dynasty of this city. This city was ruled by people like Shulgi, who finished its Great Ziggurat.
Akkadian
cuneiform
Ur [do not accept or prompt on “Uruk”] &lt;JR&gt;
A ruler of this European state created the Order of the Golden Fleece. For 10 points each:
Name this state ruled by people like Charles the Rash and John the Fearless, whose patronage of art spurred the development of the International Gothic style.
During the Hundred Years’ War, the Burgundians captured this war hero and gave her over to England for execution. This saint was sent by the Dauphin [“doh-FAN”] Charles VII to help lift the Siege of Orléans [“orr-lay-AW”].
The duchy of Burgundy was formed by John II after his capture at the Battle of Poitiers. You might know another Battle of Poitiers, another name for this 732 A.D. battle in which Charles Martel defeated some Muslims.
Duchy of Burgundy [or Duché de Bourgogne]
Saint Joan of Arc
Battle of Tours &lt;JR&gt;
A human chain of these people was formed during the Black War. For 10 points each:
Name these native peoples of Australia. The children stolen from these people by the Church and the government are called the “Stolen Generations.”
Before the Stolen Generations, this man met with the Gweagal aborigines in a place he called Botany Bay. This man also went to Hawaii, where he was first spotted during the harvest festival of Makahiki.
This protegé of Cook later became governor of New South Wales. This man was overthrown by the 1808 Rum Rebellion, which was Australia’s only successful government takeover.
Australian Aborigines
James Cook
William Bligh &lt;MK&gt;
This modern-day nation’s namesake “bronzes” are actually mostly brass, and are actually from modern Nigeria. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day African nation, whose namesake kingdom also produced a number of Edo masks.
The Benin bronzes were cast in this material. Encaustic paintings are made in this material, which was once used to cover tablets for writing.
The second-largest collection of Benin bronzes is housed in a museum on this city’s Museum Island. This capital of Germany is also home to the Pergamon Altar and the bust of Nefertiti.
Republic of Benin [accept Kingdom of Benin]
beeswax
Berlin &lt;JR&gt;
In this state, the white supremacist Red Shirts used violence to help elect governor Wade Hampton. For 10 points each:
Name this state, whose 1876 election saw mass political violence that included the Hamburg Massacre. Red Shirts member Ben Tillman later became its governor and senator in his own right.
All of that happened in this era of U.S. history, which followed the Civil War. This era, which was “redeemed” by Jim Crow Laws, spawned white terrorist groups like the White Knights in Louisiana, as well as the KKK.
The KKK drastically weakened this government agency, which was formed to help freed slaves. Oliver Howard directed this agency, which opened up thousands of schools and HBCUs before being closed by Ulysses S. Grant.
South Carolina
Reconstruction Era
Freedmen’s Bureau [or Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands] &lt;IKD&gt; Tiebreaker
The early Middle Ages wasn’t so bad. Answer the following about cool stuff that happened then, for 10 points each:
This Frankish king brought about a namesake Renaissance, in which scholars like Alcuin did neat things like invent lowercase letters. Pope Leo III crowned this man “Emperor of the Romans” on Christmas Day in 800.
Around Charlemagne’s time, farmers started getting 17% more food by switching to three-field crop rotation. In crop rotation, this is the term for the field that’s not planted, which restores the soil’s nutrient content.
Near the end of the early Middle Ages, use of the spinning wheel began to make women’s lives a whole lot easier. Before that, women spun by hand, using a spindle and this other implement, which holds the unspun fibers.
Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; or Karl der Grosse; or Charles I]
(lying) fallow
distaff [or rock] &lt;JR&gt;
This ruler was the second to be served by the military and administrative genius Axel Oxenstierna. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who sponsored the formation of the Arcadian Academy after converting to Catholicism and moving to Rome.
Christina presided over the middle of Sweden’s time as a Great Power, which began, roughly, with the decline of this organization. This organization of Baltic cities was dominated by Lübeck in the Middle Ages.
Sweden’s time as a Great Power more or less ended with its defeat at the hands of this tsar of Russia in the Great Northern War. This tsar westernized Russia and had a new capital built and named for his patron saint.
Queen Christina of Sweden
Hanseatic League [or Hansa]
Peter the Great [or Peter I; or Peter Alexeyevich; prompt on just Peter] &lt;JR&gt;
A general at this battle had earlier been accused of massacring Continental troops at Waxhaws. For 10 points each:
Name this 1781 battle that Banastre Tarleton lost to Daniel Morgan after his forces were trapped in a pincer movement. This battle led the British to withdraw from South Carolina.
This general led the British withdrawal from South Carolina. This man later won a pyrrhic victory against Nathanael Greene at King’s Mountain, but surrendered in 1781.
Cornwallis’s surrender to the Americans at Yorktown basically marked the end of this war, which started at the battles of Lexington and Concord.
Battle of Cowpens
Charles Cornwallis [accept Viscount Brome]
American Revolutionary War [or American War of Independence] &lt;LL&gt;
How much do you know about everybody’s favorite Basque-Argentine, Hipólito Yrigoyen? Find out by answering these questions, for 10 points each:
Yrigoyen advocated for the “universal male” variety of this right. This right was extended to American women by the Nineteenth Amendment.
Yrigoyen was overthrown in 1930, setting off a corruption-rife “infamous decade” in Argentina ended by the rise of this colonel. This man’s wife was known as “Evita.”
Yrigoyen belonged to the Radical Civic Union, a party long overshadowed by this catch-all party founded by Perón. This party has historically been supported by CGT trade unions, and was led by Néstor Kirchner until 2010.
voting [accept obvious equivalents; accept universal male suffrage]
Juan (Domingo) Perón
Justicialist Party [or Partido Justicialista; or PJ] &lt;LL&gt;
An assassination attempt on Zhou Enlai, an attendee of this conference, was foiled at the last minute when he switched planes. For 10 points each:
Name this 1955 conference, which helped lead to the creation of the Non-Aligned Movement. It was coordinated by Ruslan Abdulgani, and adopted a ten-point declaration.
The Bandung conference took place in this country, then ruled by a president who advocated “Pancasila.” This Asian country’s first president took power in 1945, and it was ruled by a dictator from 1967 to 1998.
This South Asian country also attended the conference. This country’s independence movement was led by Mahatma Gandhi.
Bandung Conference
Republic of Indonesia [or Republik Indonesia]
Republic of India [or Bharat Ganarajya] &lt;LL&gt;
A king legendarily waited in the snow outside this castle for three days without a hat. For 10 points each:
Name this castle town in northern Italy, which was ruled by Matilda of Tuscany in the year 1077.
Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV’s Walk to Canossa was a climax in the dispute over this practice. Henry had been excommunicated for performing this kind of appointment despite being a layman.
Henry was excommunicated by the seventh pope of this name. The first pope of this name supposedly wrote a body of sacred plainchant, while another pope of this name reformed the Julian calendar into the system we use now.
Canossa
lay investiture [prompt on word forms like investing; prompt on any description of appointing bishops, priests, etc.]
Gregory [I, VII, and XIII; accept Gregorian chant; accept Gregorian calendar] &lt;JR&gt;
This event climaxed with a failed British assault called Operation Musketeer. For 10 points each:
Name this event that led to the resignation of Anthony Eden.
The Suez Crisis occurred during this decade, which also saw the Korean War. World War II ended the decade before this one.
Both Anthony Eden and his successor Harold Macmillan were members of this British political party. Notable Hitler-appeaser Neville Chamberlain was also a member of this party.
Suez Crisis [or Tripartite Aggression]
1950s [accept equivalents]
Conservative Party [accept Tories; accept Conservative and Unionist Party] &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about history you might encounter while hiking the Appalachian Trail:
Right before entering Virginia, you pass over Watauga Dam, one of the many dams built by this New Deal agency. Appalachian Trail founder Benton MacKaye worked for this agency after leaving the Forest Service.
As you hike the trail, you’ll retrace part of the path Robert E. Lee took to the Battle of Antietam in this state. Abraham Lincoln decided to suspend habeas corpus in this state instead of bombing its city of Baltimore.
A bypass route of the Appalachian trail follows the path this Native American tribe took after their namesake war in North Carolina. This people then settled in New York, where they became the sixth nation of the Iroquois.
Tennessee Valley Authority [or TVA]
Maryland
Tuscarora people [accept Tuscarora War] &lt;IKD&gt;
This super-secret document was revealed by the Bolsheviks in a 1917 issue of <em>Pravda</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1916 document signed by Imperial Russia, Britain, and France, which divided up the lands of the Ottoman Empire into “spheres of influence.”
The Sykes–Picot agreement contradicted promises of an Arab homeland that this British man gave allies like Emir Faisal. This man wrote about his experiences in the Arab Revolt in the book Seven Pillars of Wisdom.
The agreement also contradicted Arthur Balfour’s promise to establish a Jewish homeland in this place. This place gives its name to the state that controls the Gaza strip and the West Bank, sharing Jerusalem with Israel.
Sykes–Picot Agreement
T. E. Lawrence [accept Lawrence of Arabia]
Palestine [accept Palestinian Territories] &lt;LL&gt;
The architect of this building poked fun at Colley Cibber in his play <em>The Relapse</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this building designed by John Vanbrugh. It was built near Oxford to commemorate a 1704 military victory.
Vanbrugh and the palace’s owner Marlborough were major players in the court of this queen of England. Under this queen, the United Kingdom was created by the 1707 Acts of Union.
Even though he worked after the Glorious Revolution that put William and Mary on the throne, Vanbrugh is often considered a playwright of this era. This era began when Charles II was crowned after 11 years without a king.
Blenheim Palace
Queen Anne
the Restoration &lt;JR&gt;
This man predicted the devastating nature of World War I in his last speech to the Reichstag, declaring, “woe to him who sets Europe alight, who first puts the fuse to the powder keg.” For 10 points each:
Name this field marshal whose innovative strategies helped win the Battle of Königgrätz.
Moltke’s tactics were decisive in this war of the later 19th century, which ended with Alsace-Lorraine switching hands in the Treaty of Frankfurt.
Just like Otto von Bismarck had planned, this country finally unified under a “Kaiser” after the Franco–Prussian war.
Helmuth (Karl Bernhard Graf)von Moltke the Elder
Franco–Prussian War [accept War of 1870]
Germany [or Deutschland; or German Empire; or Deutsches Kaiserreich; or Deutsches Reich] &lt;LL&gt;
Read my lips: No new taxes. For 10 points each:
Name the man who said that phrase at the 1988 Republican National Convention. This man, whose son became president more recently, succeeded Ronald Reagan and went on to serve as president during the first Gulf War.
George H.W. Bush did end up hiking taxes after all, leading to criticism from this House Minority Whip and leader of the 1994 Republican Revolution. This man was Speaker of the House from 1995 to 1999.
Bush’s tax raises were especially hated by supporters of this economic theory, which became policy under Reagan. This economic theory claims that lowering taxes will create enough growth to actually increase tax revenue.
George H.W. Bush [or Bush senior; or Bush 41; or George Herbert Walker Bush; prompt on just “George Bush”; do not accept or prompt on “George W. Bush” or “George Walker Bush”]
Newt Gingrich [or Newton Leroy Gingrich; or Newton Leroy McPherson]
supply-side economics [prompt on trickle-down economics, voodoo economics, or Reaganomics] &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Tsars named Alexander:
Alexander I supposedly signed this treaty on a raft with Napoleon in the middle of the Neman river. This treaty ended the War of the Fourth Coalition and recognized the French client states of Danzig, Warsaw, and Westphalia.
Alexander II is best-known for emancipating this class of feudal peasants in 1861.
Alexander III was less kind: in 1882, he enacted this set of laws that restricted the rights of Jews. Another set of laws by this name gave the state the responsibility for training the clergy during the Kulturkampf.
Treaties of Tilsit
serfs
May Laws [accept Temporary regulations regarding the Jews; accept Falk Laws] &lt;AF&gt;
During the siege of this city, the bumbling Union general Burnside lost the Battle of the Crater. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was besieged for 292 days following the Overland Campaign. This city lay at the junction of five railroads, and was thus a major supply center for the Confederate capital of Richmond.
This Confederate general lost the junction of Five Forks, which supplied Petersburg. This man reached the “high-water mark of the Confederacy” during an attack on Cemetery Ridge, on day three of an 1863 battle.
Both Petersburg and Richmond are in this state, the western part of which split off and was admitted to the Union in 1863.
Petersburg
George (Edward) Pickett [accept Pickett’s Charge]
Virginia [do not accept or prompt on “West Virginia”] &lt;LL&gt;
This leader’s government was criticized for its lack of a public response to the sinking of the Sewol ferry. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Saenuri Party, who became the first female head of state of any Eastern Asian country in 2013. Her dictatorial father ruled over the Third and Fourth Republics from 1963–79.
Park Geun-hye is the president of this small East Asian country. A scandal surrounding Park recently sparked a four hundred thousand-person protest in this country’s capital of Seoul.
That scandal, which has led to the suspension of Park’s presidential powers, is focused on Park’s involvement with this woman. This woman’s father founded a shamanistic cult called the Church of Eternal Life.
Park Geun-hye [do not accept or prompt on “Park Chung-hee”]
South Korea [prompt on just Korea]
Choi Soon-sil &lt;AF&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about joint-stock companies in Early Modern Europe.
Two of the earliest and most powerful joint-stock companies were British and Dutch trade companies with this two-word name. This name refers to the location from which the companies brought spices and other luxury goods.
The Dutch East India Company eventually took control of this entire modern-day country, whose capital was then known as Batavia. This modern country had earlier been ruled by the Sriᐧviᐧjaᐧya and Majapahit empires.
The first major joint-stock company was chartered by Mary Tudor to trade with this ruler. Henry Hudson got his start working for the company formed to trade with this ruler.
East India Company [or EIC; accept Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie or VOC]
Republic of Indonesia
Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV; or Ivan Vasilyevich; or Ivan Grozny; accept Ivan the Fearsome; prompt on just Ivan] (The company was called the Muscovy Company.) &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about English politics in the early 1830s:
In 1833, Britain finally abolished this practice, a cause that had been championed by William Wilberforce. Josiah Wedgwood campaigned for this practice’s abolition with the medallion “Am I Not a Man and a Brother?”
England stamped out a fair bit of corruption with this 1832 act, which massively increased the number of people who could vote, and got rid of bribery-ridden “pocket” and “rotten” boroughs.
Both the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833 and the Reform Act of 1832 were passed under this Whig prime minister.
slavery [or slave trading; accept any reasonable equivalents]
Reform Act of 1832
Earl Grey [or Charles Grey] &lt;JR&gt;
The capital of this country was moved to its current location after a 1773 earthquake. For 10 points each:
Name this Latin American country, which borders both Belize and Mexico’s state of Chiapas, and which is currently led by Jimmy Morales.
Under the presidency of Efraín Ríos Montt, the Guatemalan government committed a genocide against these peoples, killing almost 40% of them. One of these people won the 1992 Nobel Peace Prize for her autobiography.
Like many Latin American countries, Guatemala’s biggest export is the raw “cane” that’s used to produce this foodstuff.
Republic of Guatemala
Maya peoples [accept K’iche’; accept Q’eqchi’] (The autobiography is I, Rigoberta Menchú.)
sugar &lt;MK/JR&gt;
Peoples of this kind during the Woodland period included the Adena and Hopewell cultures. For 10 points each:
Give this general term for North American peoples from roughly 3500 BC to 1500 AD. This name derives from a kind of religious structure these people constructed.
The most recent of the mound-building cultures was named for this river, which was crossed by Hernando de Soto. Lewis and Clark’s expedition explored the area west of this river.
The Mound Builders are described by this term, which is often used to describe all of New World history before European contact. Some recent historians have begun to favor terms like “Pre-Colonial” over this term.
Mound Builders
Mississippi River [accept Mississippian culture]
Pre-Columbian &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the reign of Philip II of Spain:
Philip did this action no fewer than four times, mainly because he kept sponsoring huge building projects and military expeditions, and because his creditors had no power to collect on him.
One of those building projects was this massive monastery-palace complex northwest of Madrid. This fortress-like building is made of plain grey stone with few ornaments to make it look more intimidating.
Charles V had hoped to absorb this kingdom into northeast Spain by marrying Philip to its queen Jeanne d’Albret. This kingdom with capital Pamplona had earlier been ruled by noted jerk Charles the Bad.
defaulting on his loans [or declaring bankruptcy; accept rough equivalents]
Royal Site of San Lorenzo de El Escorial [or Monasterio y Sitio de El Escorial en Madrid]
Kingdom of Navarre [or Reino de Navarra] &lt;JR&gt;
Members of this party masterminded Jay’s Treaty, which was one of the origins of the U.S.–Britain Special Relationship. For 10 points each:
Name this American political party led by Alexander Hamilton, which called for a strong central government. This party fizzled after the 1814 Hartford Convention, which let the Democratic-Republicans take over.
The collapse of the Federalist Party led to this brief period in American politics, which was followed by the era of Jacksonian democracy. This period included James Monroe’s 1820 election bid, which went unopposed.
The Federalists and Democratic-Republics constituted the first one of these constructs from political science. Currently, Democrats and the G.O.P. make up either the fifth or sixth one of these constructs.
Federalist Party
Era of Good Feelings
two-Party Systems [prompt on partial answer] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about those land-reforming Romans, the Gracchi:
The Gracchi both held this political office.
The Gracchi mostly represented the interests of this class of Romans, who were not patricians.
The Gracchi both lived during this century, when Marius and Sulla were both born. Julius Caesar was born at the very end of this century, and the Roman Republic fell in the century after this one.
tribune [or tribunus]
plebeians
100s BC [or 2nd century BC] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the Constitution….of Canada:
Canada’s constitution was only patriated in 1982, under this Québecois prime minister. This man’s son Justin was elected prime minister of Canada in 2015.
Canada’s first constitutions were these acts of Britain’s parliament, which were all renamed “Constitution Acts” in 1982. The first of these acts was passed in 1867.
The first British North America Act was passed following the recommendation of Lord Durham’s Report, which was issued in this decade following a bunch of revolutions. Queen Victoria was crowned during this decade.
Pierre Trudeau [accept Justin Trudeau]
British North America Acts [or BNA Acts]
1830s &lt;JR&gt;
These laws were intended to curb the strength of Dutch trade after the Eighty Years’ War. For 10 points each:
Name these laws, passed in 1651 and the subsequent decades. They began to be enforced more strictly with the 1764 Sugar Act.
The non-enforcement of the Navigation Acts was given a positive spin by Edmund Burke, who used this two-word phrase to describe the lax enforcement of British laws in the Colonies.
The Navigation Acts are generally considered to have promoted mercantilism and bullionism, which advocated stockpiling these two precious metals. Name both.
Navigation Acts
salutary neglect
gold AND silver [accept in either order] &lt;JR&gt;
Three or so of the important early members of this family were named Megacles. For 10 points each:
Name this family that included Athenian reformers like Cleisthenes and Pericles, who claimed descent from Nestor’s great-grandson.
Cleisthenes overthrew one of these rulers named Hippias. This title was taken by men like Peisistratus, who usually became rulers through mass uprisings against the aristocracy.
Paradoxically, tyrants often served as intermediate steps “toward” this form of government, whose Greek name means “rule of the common people.” Aristotle saw this system as a perversion of “polity” or republicanism.
Alcmaeonidae [or Alcmaeonids]
tyrants [or tyrannos; or tyrannoi]
democracy [accept word forms like democratic] &lt;JR&gt;
This king of England came to power the year after the Treaty of Wallingford was signed. For 10 points each:
Name this man, the son of Geoffrey V of Anjou and the first Plantagenet king of England. He took power in 1154.
Henry’s predecessor was this king of England, who was captured at the Battle of Lincoln, but consolidated power with the Treaty of Wallingford before dying.
Stephen had fought during the “Anarchy” with Henry’s mother Matilda, who took this title after marrying the German Henry V. Less famously, the wives of Otto the Great and Frederick Barbarossa were crowned with this title.
Henry II [prompt on just Henry]
Stephen of Blois
Holy Roman Empress [accept Empress Matilda; accept more specific answers like Empress consort] &lt;MK&gt;
The state of Baekje [“pek-jeh”] ruled during a period with this name. For 10 points each:
Give this name for the period when Cao Cao [“tsow tsow”] founded the state of Wei, in AD 220.
The Korean Three Kingdoms were partly followed by the state of Balhae [“ball-heh”], which was conquered by this dynasty. This dynasty was founded by the Khitans around the fall of the Tang, and was later overrun by the Jurchens.
The leader of the Khitans and Jurchens took this title. This title was later adopted by Mongol rulers like Genghis.
Three Kingdoms [or Sanguo shidai; or Samguk-sidae]
Liao dynasty [or Great Liao; or Da Liao]
khan &lt;JR&gt; Tiebreaker
The earliest extant documents in this language are in a writing system called Linear B. For 10 points each:
Name this language that was used to write early histories by Herodotus and Thucydides.
Unlike Linear B, Linear A was not used to write Greek. Instead, it was the writing system of this Bronze age island civilization, which was based at Knossos and eventually replaced by the Mycenaeans.
Minoan civilization collapsed around 1400 BC, but no one’s quite sure why. A popular, but probably wrong, theory holds that they never recovered from the eruption of a volcano on this island.
(Ancient) Greek [or Hellenike]
Minoan civilization [prompt on any answer mentioning Crete]
Santorini [or Thera] &lt;JR&gt;
“The Washington Consensus” was the practice of imposing these types of policies as conditions for loans. For 10 points each:
Name this term for government policies of privatization, financialization, free trade, and deregulation. Proponents of this “third way” included Milton Friedman, and David Harvey wrote A Brief History of it.
The economic crises resulting from neoliberal policies led to this continent’s “Pink Tide,” which brought in leftist leaders like Rafael Correa, Evo Morales, and Hugo Chávez.
In 1999, global protesters arrived at this intergovernmental institution’s meeting in Seattle, to protest its role in agreements like NAFTA. This institution replaced the GATT and focusses on things like harmonizing tariffs.
neoliberalism [do not accept or prompt on just “liberalism”]
South America
World Trade Organization [or WTO] &lt;IKD&gt;
This project was almost entirely paid for by a federal gas tax. For 10 points each:
Name this biggest public works project in U.S. history, which was started in 1956 under Dwight D. Eisenhower. This federal project built thousands of miles of roads, whose numbers end with zero if they go east-west.
This First Lady led the effort to pass the Highway Beautification Act. This native of Austin bought radio and TV stations with her inheritance to help fund the political career of her husband, who was also a Texas Democrat.
The “generic” appearance of interstates has often been unfavorably contrasted with older federal roads like this U.S. highway. Many victims of the Dust Bowl went west along this road, which runs from Chicago to Santa Monica.
Interstate Highway System
“Lady Bird” Johnson [or Claudia Alta Taylor]
U.S. Route 66 &lt;IKD&gt;
An appalling 82% of the crew of these ships died by the end of World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of ship that moved in “wolf packs.” One of these ships sank the Lusitania.
A U-boat-laid mine destroyed the HMHS Britannic, which was one of three Olympic-class ocean liners. Another of those liners was this ship, which hit an iceberg en route to New York City in 1912.
This man created the “wolf pack” tactic, and also advocated unrestricted submarine warfare. As if that weren’t bad enough, this man took power in 1945 as Hitler’s designated successor.
U-boats [or Unterseebooten; accept “German submarines”]
RMS Titanic
Karl Dönitz &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer this following about people Winston Churchill insulted:
Churchill called this man “a modest man, with much to be modest about.” This man got his revenge by defeating Churchill in the 1945 general election.
Churchill compared this man to “a female llama who has just been surprised in her bath.” This man published three volumes of War Memoirs, and established a “dirigist” economy that led to the “Thirty Glorious Years.”
Churchill described Bernard Montgomery as “in defeat unbeatable, in victory unbearable” after British forces helped win this war. Montgomery fought Erwin Rommel and commanded ground forces at D-Day during this war.
Clement (Richard) Attlee
Charles (André Joseph Marie) de Gaulle
World War II [accept reasonable equivalents like Second World War] &lt;LL&gt; Tiebreaker
After this offensive failed, it was countered by the Hundred Days Offensive, which broke the Hindenburg Line. For 10 points each:
Name this 1918 German offensive that included Operation Michael and Operation Georgette. It was a failed attempt to win the war before American troops could arrive.
The Spring Offensive ended at the second battle of this French river. Taxis were used to bring French reinforcements to the first battle of this river, at which Joseph Joffre’s victory ended the Schlieffen [“SHLEE-fun”] plan.
The Spring Offensive did almost succeed: the German army got within artillery range of this capital city of France.
Spring Offensive [accept Ludendorff Offensive; accept Kaiserschlacht or Kaiser's Battle]
Marne River
Paris &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some questions about the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty talks:
The SALT talks were held between the U.S. and this other superpower, which was then led by Leonid Brezhnev.
SALT I required that the U.S.S.R. and United States limit themselves to this number of locations with anti-ballistic missiles. This number was applied to the “world” of countries like the U.S.S.R. and China.
The most recent successor to SALT was the New START treaty, which was signed by Barack Obama and this then-President of Russia.
U.S.S.R. [or Soviet Union; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or C.C.C.P.; prompt on Russia]
two [accept Second World]
Dmitry (Anatolyevich) Medvedev &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about famous “cries” in Latin American history:
This criollo priest proclaimed Mexico’s independence in the 1810 “Grito de Dolores,” or “Cry of Dolores.”
The “Cry of Yara” was proclaimed by Carlos Manuel de Céspedes in this country as it fought for independence in the Ten Year’s War. General Valeriano Weyler was known as a “Butcher” for actions in this modern country.
Pedro I declared this country’s independence in the “Cry of Ipiranga.” Pedro had earlier been king of Portugal, which colonized this large South American country.
Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla
Cuba
Empire of Brazil &lt;LL&gt;
This politician was instrumental in the banning of the drug khat. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who was Home Secretary from 2010 to 2016, creating the National Crime Agency in the process.
Theresa May succeeded David Cameron as Prime Minister of the U.K. after the referendum on this action. Michael Gove and Nigel Farage advocate this action, which is usually known by a mashup nickname.
Charmingly enough, it’s thought that Theresa May was introduced to her husband by this then-future prime minister of Pakistan, who was assassinated in 2007. This woman’s father Zulfikar was executed in 1979.
Theresa (Mary) May [accept Theresa Mary Brasier]
Brexit [accept any answer involving the U.K. leaving the European Union]
Benazir Bhutto &lt;JR&gt;
This man published a misleading “Report to the King” in 1781, which disguised France’s shaky financial situation. For 10 points each:
Name this French finance minister from 1777 and 1781, whose dismissal in 1789 led to the storming of the Bastille.
A month before the Bastille was stormed, the Estates-General was cancelled, prompting this document. This text calls its signers the “National Assembly,” and includes a promise to stay put until the writing of a Constitution.
This king dismissed the Estates-General. He was later guillotined in 1793, along with his wife, Marie Antoinette.
Jacques Necker
Tennis Court Oath [or Serment du Jeu de Paume]
Louis XVI [prompt on just Louis] &lt;LL&gt;
After an investigation into this scandal, Robert Fiske discovered that David Hale made a loan that would benefit the Madison Guaranty Association, for 10 points each:
Name this political scandal that involved an investigation into the business dealings of Jim and Susan McDougal.
The Whitewater scandal was one of several brought against Bill Clinton during this proceeding. Only Clinton and Andrew Johnson have undergone this procedure, since Richard Nixon resigned to avoid it.
Clinton appointee Janet Reno was the first woman to serve under this position. Other holders of this federal position have included Elliot Richardson, John Ashcroft, and Robert F. Kennedy.
Whitewater controversy/scandal
impeachment [accept word forms like impeaching]
Attorney General [or AG] &lt;LL&gt;
Cities in this province include a number of well-preserved sites like Leptis Magna. For 10 points each:
Name this province once governed by a proconsul from Zama Regia. It lay between Mauretania and Cyrenaica.
Cyrenaica lay between Roman Africa and this other province, which had been conquered from its last queen, Cleopatra VII.
Roman Africa and Egypt were hugely important as the major producers of this good for the Empire. This good was provided free to citizens of the city of Rome, prompting a satirical line by Juvenal.
Roman Africa [or Africa proconsularis]
Roman Egypt [or Aegyptus]
grain [accept bread; accept wheat; accept corn; prompt on bread and circuses] &lt;JR&gt;
The <em>Directorium</em> was created under this ruler’s reform chancellor, Count Haugwitz. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who was the first to be served by the ace diplomat von Kaunitz. The so-called “Diplomatic Revolution” happened under this ruler.
Haugwitz was a major proponent of this two-word philosophy of rule, in which 18th-century authoritarian rulers tried to use cutting-edge philosophical ideas to improve the lives of their subjects.
In the Diplomatic Revolution, Austria became allied with this power after being ditched by Britain. This kingdom was then basically ruled by Louis XV’s mistress Madame de Pompadour.
Empress Maria Theresa (Amalia Christina) [or Maria Theresia]
enlightened despotism [or enlightened absolutism; or benevolent despotism]
Kingdom of France &lt;JR&gt;
This program was formally announced in a 1964 speech at the University of Michigan. For 10 points each:
Name this domestic program that included initiatives like the War on Poverty, Medicaid, and Medicare.
This U.S. President came up with the Great Society program. He succeeded John F. Kennedy and escalated the Vietnam War following the Gulf of Tonkin incident.
Another part of the Great Society was this early childhood education program for low-income children, which was launched by Jule Sugarman.
Great Society
Lyndon B. Johnson [or LBJ]
Head Start &lt;LL&gt;
Wu Sangui [“SAHN-gway”] led the Revolt of the Three Feudatories during this dynasty. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty that succeeded the Ming as China’s last imperial dynasty.
After the rule of wise and competent men like the Kangxi [“kahng-shee”] Emperor, the Qing dynasty went into decline in this century. During this century, at least 20 million people were killed in the Taiping Rebellion.
This emperor ruled from 1735 to 1796, stepping down early so as not to outdo his grandfather, Emperor Kangxi. This man ordered both the library Siku Quanshu and a Dzungar genocide called the Ten Great Campaigns.
Qing dynasty
19th century [or 1800s]
Qianlong [“chyen-long”] Emperor &lt;LL&gt;
This man has been accused of ushering in the Roman Empire’s collapse by letting the Vandals cut off trans-Mediterranean trade by taking the Roman provinces in North Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman general who was assassinated on orders from Valentinian III. This general collaborated with Theodoric I to win the Battle of Chalôns, a.k.a. the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains.
This nomadic people was defeated at the Battle of Chalôns. Pope Leo the Great persuaded them to withdraw from Italy after a discussion with their leader Attila.
This English historian, who called Aetius the “last of the Romans,” documented the Battle of Chalôns and much, much more in his massive Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, which was published beginning in 1776.
Flavius Aetius
Huns
Edward Gibbon &lt;JR&gt;
Bonus: The inhabitants of this location survived on a mixture of flour and water known as “firecakes”. For ten points each:
The Continental Army stayed at this military camp in Pennsylvania through the brutal winter of 1777 during the Revolutionary War.
Soldiers at Valley Forge were trained by this Prussian officer, who outlined his procedures in the official American Revolution Drill Manual.
This general was the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army through the war. He would later go on to serve as the first president of the United States.
Valley Forge
Baron Friedrich Wilhelm August Heinrich Ferdinand von Steuben
George Washington &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Hone Heke was a chief of these people who began the Flagstaff War. For ten points each:
Name these indigenous people of a certain polynesian country who were declared to be under British sovereignty after the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi.
The Maori were inhabitants of this island whose modern day capital is Wellington.
New Zealand was first discovered in 1642 when this Dutch explorer when he was steered east by wind. This man also names the sea between Australia and New Zealand as well as an island once known as Van Diemen’s Land.
Maori
New Zealand
Abel Tasman &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: On October 21, 2016, U.S. airstrikes killed 8 members of this terrorist group. For ten points each:
Name this terrorist group once led by Osama bin-Laden that was responsible for the 9/11 attacks.
Al-Qaeda officially denied responsibility for the creation of this militant group that controls large areas of land in its two namesake countries. Known for their videos of beheadings, they have been declared a terrorist organization by the UN.
In August 2016, ISIS claimed responsibility for a car bombing that targeted forces of this country’s pro-Saudi president Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi.
Al-Qaeda
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria [accept Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, ISIS, ISIL, or Daesh]
Republic of Yemen &lt;AN&gt;
Bonus: The Union battleships <em>Choctaw</em> and <em>Lexington</em> suppressed Confederate forces at a battle fought in this location. For ten points each:
Name this site of a namesake campaign during the Civil War. At this site, Ulysses S. Grant earned Union control of the Mississippi.
The capture of Vicksburg was a part of this plan. This strategy aimed to cut the South in two by blocking Southern ports, in order to “suffocate” the Union.
The Anaconda Plan was formulated by this general who was nicknamed “Old Fuss and Feathers”.
Vicksburg (accept Siege of Vicksburg)
Anaconda Plan
Winfield Scott &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This man became leader of the Nazi Political Party by one vote. For ten points each:
Name this Führer who lost World War II as leader of Nazi Germany and wrote Mein Kampf.
Hitler wrote Mein Kampf during the prison sentence he incurred after this failed event. In this failed coup, Hitler attempted to seize power in Munich with Erich Ludendorff.
Hitler orchestrated this purge on June 30th that targeted Ernst Rohm, the SA, and others who opposed the Nazi Party. It was codenamed Operation Hummingbird.
Adolf Hitler
Beer Hall Putsch
Night of the Long Knives [or Nacht der langen Messer] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Identify these historians from ancient Greece who chronicled wars. For ten points each:
This “Father of History” described the cultures, conflicts, and politics of Greece in his magnum opus, The Histories, which most notably include the only written accounts of the Greco-Persian wars.
Herodotus was also the teacher of this other historian, who aimed to record purely factual reports of events, free of bias, and is thus often called the “father of scientific history”. He wrote the History of the Peloponnesian War.
Like Thucydides, this man also wrote about the Peloponnesian War, specifically its end and aftermath, in the Hellenica. He also wrote the Anabasis, which details the expedition of 10,000 Greek mercenaries to the Battle of Cunaxa.
Herodotus
Thucydides
Xenophon &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Viktor Suvorov’s book <em>Icebreaker</em> posits that this man used Nazi Germany to start a war in Europe. For ten points each:
Name this man who led the Soviet Union during World War II.
Stalin forced the collectivization of farms and “Dekulakization”, which led to famine in this country. Leonid Kravchuk was the first post-independence leader of this second most powerful republic in the Soviet Union.
Stalin is often accused of orchestrating this massive famine in the 1930s that killed several millions of people in Ukraine.
Joseph Stalin
Ukraine
Holodomor &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: The Minamoto clan was the first rulers of this government, which was preceded by the Heian Period. For ten points each:
Name this first Japanese shogunate.
After the Kamakura Shogunate came the Ashikaga shogunate, which was succeeded by this third and final Japanese shogunate founded in 1600 by Ieyasu.
In 1868, the Tokugawa Shogunate was replaced by this period of westernization that restored imperial rule to Japan.
Kamakura Shogunate
Tokugawa Shogunate
Meiji Restoration &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Levi Strauss created blue jeans during this event. For ten points each:
Name this craze of the mid 19th century that saw an influx of Americans traveling west to obtain a certain metal.
Many participants in the California Gold Rush were given this nickname. It comes from the year in which the event was at its peak.
This man began the California Gold Rush in his initial discovery of gold at Sutter’s Mill.
California Gold Rush [prompt on “Gold Rush”]
Forty-Niners
James Marshall &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: According to a certain epic, the founder of this empire was unable to walk in his childhood until he acquired a magical iron rod. For ten points each:
Name this West African Empire adjacent to the Niger River, founded by Sundiata Keita, whose capital was at Timbuktu.
The Mali Empire was once ruled by this wealthy king, who constructed Sankore University and famously led an extravagant pilgrimage to Mecca.
The Mali Empire was founded after the Battle of Kirina in 1235, in which Sundiata Keita beat the forces of this Sosso King. According to legend, Sundiata defeated this man by shooting an arrow tipped with a rooster’s nail.
Mali Empire
Mansa Musa
Sumanguru &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Though he was a national hero, his reputation as a leader was tarnished by revolts. For ten points each:
Name this leader of the French resistance in World War II, who later served as president of the 5th Republic.
De Gaulle faced this country’s war of independence, which was ended by the Evian Accords and saw fighting in Oran. This country would later fight the Sand War with Morocco.
This socialist party in Algeria sought independence from France, and they were the perpetrators of the Oran massacre of 1962.
Charles de Gaulle
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
FLN [or National Liberation Front, or Front de Liberation Nationale] &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: The opening line of Sylvia Plath’s <em>The Bell Jar</em> states that “It was a queer, sultry summer” during the time in which these two people were electrocuted. For ten points each,
Name these spies, a married couple, who were executed during the Cold War for leaking information to the Soviet nuclear weapons program.
The Rosenbergs communicated with David Greenglass, another Soviet spy, who worked as an engineer on this project. This project produced the nuclear bombs Little Boy and Fat Man.
The Manhattan Project was directed by this scientist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. This man quoted the Bhagavad Gita by declaring “Now, I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds”.
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg [accept the Rosenbergs]
Manhattan Project
Julius Robert Oppenheimer &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Pro-segregationist governor Lester Maddox was elected separately as Lieutenant Governor when this man was elected Governor. For ten points each:
Name this former Governor of Georgia and 39th President of the United States. He was defeated by Ronald Reagan in the 1980 Presidential Election.
During his presidency, Jimmy Carter engaged in several of these talks with Leonid Brezhnev to derail the development of nuclear arms. Similar talks earlier took place between Nixon and Brezhnev.
With Omar Torrijos, Carter signed two treaties that ceased U.S. control of this structure, which had been constructed in 1914 during the presidency of Teddy Roosevelt.
James Earl “Jimmy” Carter
SALT II (accept Strategic Arms Limitation Talks II , prompt on “SALT”, do NOT accept “Salt I”)
Panama Canal &lt;AN&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about a man who initiated the Age of Discovery. For ten points each:
Name that man, a Duke of Viseu who sponsored the discovery of the Azores and exploration down the coast of Africa. Despite his nickname, he never actually captained a ship.
Henry the Navigator was a patron for exploration from this European country, which was also the home of many explorers such as Bartolomeu Dias and Ferdinand Magellan.
Henry was a prince of this Portuguese dynastic house, which was founded by his father John I. It preceded the House of Braganza.
Henry the Navigator [prompt on “Henry” accept Henry the Seafarer]
Kingdom of Portugal
House of Aviz &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The use of “yellow journalism” by William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer raised support of U.S. entry into this war. For ten points each:
Identify this war that was triggered by the explosion of the U.S.S. Maine. It was fought over the independence of Cuba and the Philippines.
Under his policy of Reconcentration, this Governor General was nicknamed “Butcher” for his inhumane treatment of Cubans in concentration camps.
This regiment of troops, led by Theodore Roosevelt, was victorious at the Battle of San Juan Hill. Alexander Proctor sculpted an equestrian statue of Roosevelt as the leader of this group of soldiers.
Spanish-American War
Valeriano “Butcher” Weyler
Rough Riders &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Name these Roman Emperors who were not from the Julio-Claudian Dynasty. For ten points each:
This man constructed the Colosseum and was the final ruler of the Year of the Four Emperors, as well as the first of the Flavian Dynasty.
Born in Spain, this second of the Five Good Emperors defeated King Decebalus at the Battle of Sarmizegetusa as part of his conquest of Dacia.
Trajan was succeeded by this emperor, who built a massive wall in Britain to mark the northern boundary of his empire.
Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Caesar Vespasianus Augustus]
; Trajan [or Caesar Nerva Traianus Divi Nervae filius Augustus]
Hadrian [or Publius Aelius Trajanus Hadrianus Augustus] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: John Maynard Keynes attacked this agreement in <em>The Economic Consequences of the Peace</em>. For ten points each:
Name this treaty for which the “Big Three” of David Lloyd George, Georges Clemenceau, and Woodrow Wilson all gathered at its namesake French palace to sign.
The conference at Versailles also resulted in the creation of this international body whose purpose was to prevent world wars from happening in the future. The last of Wilson’s Fourteen Points called for the creation of this body.
This senator prevented the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles in the U.S. Senate due to Article 10 from the Covenant of the League of Nations, which stated that assistance must be given to any member experiencing external aggression.
Treaty of Versailles
League of Nations
Henry Cabot Lodge &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The leader of these people is nicknamed the “black pope”. For ten points each:
Name these members of the Society of Jesus, the largest Catholic order.
The Jesuit order was founded by this Spanish nobleman, who wrote his Spiritual Exercises after living in a cave near Manresa for more than a year.
The Society of Jesus was formally made part of the Catholic Church in 1540 by this pope, who also convened the Council of Trent.
Jesuits
Saint Ignatius of Loyola [accept Ignacio de Loyola]
Pope Paul III [accept Alessandro Farnese] &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: “Peace, Land, and Bread” can sound very appealing, especially to peasants. For ten points each:
That phrase was used as a slogan by the Bolsheviks in this 1917 revolution that put them in power. It took place in the same year as the February Revolution.
The October Revolution overthrew the provisional government of this moderate that took over after the abdication of Nicholas II.
Kerensky’s government was overthrown by this man’s Bolshevik party. This man was inspired by his brother’s assassination attempt, and later instituted the NEP in the Soviet Union.
October Revolution [prompt on “Russian Revolution”, do not accept “Bolshevik Revolution”]
Alexander Fyodorovich Kerensky
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin [accept Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov] &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: These nomadic people consumed the milk of the horses they rode, which they called Kumis. For ten points each:
Name this central Asian people who lived in yurts under the rule of a Khan.
The fragmentation of the Mongol Empire in 1259 led to the creation of this territory led by Juchi. It was expanded by Batu Khan, who eventually sacked Kiev.
After the Golden Horde sacked Kiev, this Prince of Novgorod was forced to pay heavy taxes to the Golden Horde after they sacked Kiev, but he more famously fought off the Teutonic Knights at the Battle on the Ice.
Mongols (accept Mongol empire)
Golden Horde
Alexander Nevsky &lt;RP+GM&gt;
Bonus: The ruler of this empire was considered to be the son of the sun god, Inti. For ten points each:
Name this civilization whose capital was at Cuzco, located in modern-day Peru.
The Incas used these sets of knotted, threaded strings to count gold, corn, and other goods. They were also used for record-keeping.
The Incas lived in this mountain range, in which they developed a series of bridges and roads to improve communication.
Inca
Quipu
Andes Mountains &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: Miltiades led the Athenians to victory over the Persians, led by Artaphernes, in a 490 BCE battle. For ten points each:
Name that battle. Legend holds that after it ended, the messenger Pheidippides died after running 26.2 miles to Athens to convey the news of Greek victory.
Greek forces at the Battle of Marathon primarily consisted of this type of soldier. These spear-wielding foot soldiers often assembled into a phalanx for greater protection.
Athenian forces at Marathon were aided by the forces of this city, which were lead by the general Arimnestos. An earlier 479 battle that took place at this city was a victory for Pausanias over the army of Mardonius.
Battle of Marathon
Hoplites
Plataea [accept Battle of Plataea] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The winning commander of this battle announced, “We have met the enemy and they are ours.” For ten points each:
Name this naval battle from the War of 1812 that was fought off the coast of Ohio. This battle is alternatively named for the location at which the winning side was stationed: Put-in-Bay.
This naval commander earned the title “Hero of Lake Erie” for leading the American forces to victory. With Jesse Eliot, this man defeated the British Robert Henry Barclay.
Oliver Hazard Perry died aboard the USS John Adams while on a voyage to discuss a treaty with this leader regarding piracy. This man was known as “El Libertador” and served as the first president of Gran Colombia.
Battle of Lake Erie
Oliver Hazard Perry (prompt on “Perry”)
Simon Bolivar &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: In 2006, a Malay insurgency in this country’s south caused its military to remove then-president Thaksin Shinawatra from office. For ten points each:
Name this Asian country which has recently seen deadly bombings in places like Phuket and Bangkok.
Thailand’s government ordered a year of mourning after the death of this 88 year old Thai king, who died in October 2016 and is expected to be succeeded by his son Vajiralongkorn.
In 2014, Prayuth Chan-ocha led the Thai military in creating the National Council for Peace and Order, which is this type of government, where military officers take over the country.
Thailand
Bhumibol Adulyadej
military junta &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: This movement pushed for “Socialism with a human face.” For ten points each:
Name this 1968 liberalization movement that was put down by Brezhnev’s command for a Soviet march on the capital of Czechoslovakia.
Prague Spring began after this First Secretary of the Communist Party in Czechoslovakia was elected. After his removal, Gustav Husak took his office and began a period of “normalization”.
In August of 1968, this student set himself on fire to protest the invasion of Prague. This man’s funeral became the site of protest against occupation.
Prague Spring
Alexander Dubček
Jan Palach &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: This man was one of the founders of the Liberty Union Party. For ten points each:
Name this senator from Vermont who finished 2nd in the 2016 Democratic Primaries.
Bernie Sanders pulled off an upset win in this Midwestern state in early May. On the Republican side, this state held the last primaries in which Ted Cruz and John Kasich competed, and Mike Pence was the governor of this state.
This former Indiana governor and senator ran for his old Indiana senate seat in 2016, but he lost to Todd Young. His father had also held the same Senate seat.
Bernard “Bernie” Sanders
Indiana
Birch Evans Bayh III [prompt on “Bayh”, do NOT accept “Birch Bayh”] &lt;AN&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about some major labor uprisings and strikes in American history. For ten points each:
Coal miners in Logan County, West Virginia initiated this largest labor uprising in U.S. history in 1921. This conflict faced coal miners against strikebreakers, or Logan Defenders, and saw intervention of the United States Army.
In this labor strike, the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers revolted against Carnegie Steel in protest of a wage cut. Henry Clay Frick ordered Pinkerton guards to disband this strike.
After this deadly industrial disaster in the Asch Building occurred, the International Ladies Garment Workers Union led a strike demanding higher pay for shorter hours.
Battle of Blair Mountain
Homestead Strike
Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire [both underlined parts required, prompt on partial answer] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: After a defeat at the Battle of Gravelines, a speech at Tilbury was given to inspire this force. For ten points each:
Name this formerly “invincible” naval force that was defeated with the help of “Protestant winds”. It failed to conquer England in 1588.
A claim to English throne was made by this king, who organized the Spanish Armada. He also notably failed in putting down the Dutch Revolt.
King Philip II used this building as both a palace and a monastery. Designed by Juan Bautista de Toledo, this palace houses the remains of many rulers of Spain.
Spanish Armada
King Philip II
San Lorenzo de El Escorial &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: One account of this ruler’s death claims that his own people pelted him to death after he told them to flee. For ten points each:
Name this last notable ruler of the Aztecs, who supposedly assumed a certain conquistador to be Quetzalcoatl.
Montezuma was killed by this Spanish conquistador who conquered the Aztecs.
Cortes’ rearguard of his army was slaughtered on a causeway across Lake Texcoco on this night, when the Spaniards escaped from Tenochtitlan after Montezuma died.
Montezuma II [accept Moctezuma II, Motecuhzoma II, Motecuhzoma II, prompt on any of them without the “II” accept Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin]
Hernán Cortés de Monroy y Pizarro
“La Noche Triste” [or “The Night of Sorrows”] &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: The Battle of Ipsus was fought between members of this group. For ten points each:
Name this group of generals who were the namesake of several wars fought over the empire of a certain Macedonian king.
The Diadochi was mostly composed of the rival generals and relatives of this king. This Macedonian king conquered much of the ancient world and defeated Darius III at the Battle of Issus and the Battle of Gaugamela.
Alexander the Great succeeded this man, his father, to the throne of the Macedonian Empire.
Diadochi [prompt on “successors to Alexander the Great” or similar answers]
Alexander the Great
Philip II of Macedon &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The current French <em>lycée</em> school system was implemented under this man. For ten points each:
Name this leader who brought an end to the French Revolution and crowned himself emperor in 1804. After losing the Battle of Waterloo, he was exiled.
Before being humiliated at Waterloo, Napoleon claimed victory at this battle against the combined forces of Russia and Austria. With the signing of the Treaty of Pressburg, this battle brought an end to the War of the Third Coalition.
Although Napoleon’s final exile was to St. Helena, he was first sent to this Mediterranean island in 1814, after a disastrous attempt to invade Russia in 1812.
Napoleon I [or Napoleon Bonaparte]
Battle of Austerlitz [accept Battle of the Three Emperors]
Elba &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: The father of this man forced him to watch the execution of his friend after trying to escape the royal court. For ten points each:
Identify this enlightened despot who fought the 7 Year’s War against Austria.
Frederick II was a ruler of this country, which won a brief war with France in 1871 that was the final step in Germany’s unification.
Frederick the Great fought the Seven Year’s War over the territory of Silesia against the rules made by this document. This document was supposed to keep an Austrian ruler safe, but Frederick broke it anyway.
Frederick II [accept Frederick the Great, prompt on “Frederick”]
Prussia [reluctantly accept Brandenburg-Prussia]
Pragmatic Sanction of 1713 &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about an event that was alternatively known as the “Incident on King Street”. For ten points each:
Name this 1770 event in which British troops that were sent to enforce the Townshend Acts shot into a crowd and killed five colonists of a certain Massachusetts town.
This African-American man was the first victim of the Boston Massacre. He is bloodied and fallen in an engraving by Paul Revere of the event.
This British officer from the 29th Regiment of Foot was present at the Boston Massacre, and his men were charged with manslaughter. He was later acquitted by Josiah Quincey and John Adams.
Boston Massacre
Crispus Attucks
Thomas Preston &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This man captured Bayezid the Thunderbolt after the Battle of Ankara. For ten points each:
Name this conqueror from Central Asia who sacked Delhi and founded a namesake dynasty that included Shah Rukh. He acquired his infamous epithet after taking arrow wounds to the leg.
Tamerlane built the capital of his enormous empire at this city, which is located in modern day Uzbekistan.
After conquering cities, Tamerlane would frequently construct several of these massive things outside of the walls of the sacked cities as he did at Baghdad, Damascus, and Isfahan.
Tamerlane [Accept Timur the Lame]
Samarkand
pyramids of skulls [prompt on partial answer] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Antipater of Sidon listed one of this site’s structures as one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. For ten points each:
Name this site of the Great Pyramids, located just outside Cairo.
The Giza pyramid complex contains this iconic limestone statue depicting a creature with a lion’s body and a human head.
This Pharaoh of the Old Kingdom commissioned the construction of both the Sphinx and the Great Pyramids at Giza.
Giza
The Great Sphinx of Giza
Khufu &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This battle was fought along the Orontes River, for ten points each:
Name this 1274 BC chariot battle that pitted the forces of Egypt against the Hittites. It was fought over possession of the title location and ended with a peace treaty that claimed neither side had won.
Egyptian forces at the Battle of Kadesh were led by this “Pharaoh of the New Kingdom”, who married Nefertari and built two massive temples at Abu Simbel.
The infantry of the Hittites at the Battle of Kadesh were led by this king, who also moved the Hittite capital to Tarhuntassa.
Battle of Kadesh
Rameses II [accept Ramses the Great, prompt on “Ramses”]
Muwatallis II &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This man came to power after the death of his brother, Mongke. For ten points each:
Name this leader of the Mongols, the grandson of Genghis, whose efforts to invade Japan were thwarted both times by kamikaze.
During his rule, Kublai Khan conquered the Song dynasty of China and established this dynasty, whose capital was built at Dadu.
The Yuan Dynasty eventually ended in 1368 after this major uprising. Influenced by the White Lotus Society, the anti-mongol army of this rebellion was led by Zhu Yuanzhang, who would become the Hongwu Emperor of the Ming dynasty .
Kublai Khan
Yuan Dynasty
Red Turban Rebellion [accept Red Scarves Rebellion] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The first half of this war ended with the signing of the Peace of Nicias. For ten points each:
Name this 5th century BCE war, fought for almost thirty years, between Athens and Sparta.
This unfaithful Athenian general from the Peloponnesian War defected to Sparta, but after escaping his arrest, he defected back to Athens.
Alcibiades led an infamous expedition to this largest island of the Mediterranean Sea, but the campaign proved disastrous and was defeated by Gylippus.
Peloponnesian War
Alcibiades
Sicily &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Name some things about a certain political office from ancient Rome. For ten points each:
Two people served in this highest political position of the Roman Republic. People who held this position were chosen at annual elections.
The passage of the Lex Licinia Sextia in 367 BC stated that at least one consul per year should be of this class. This large class of ordinary citizens was much poorer and had fewer privileges than the Patricians.
Amongst his many other scandals, the historian Suetonius wrote that Emperor Caligula attempted to appoint this horse of his to the consul.
Consuls
Plebeians
Incitatus &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Inns along this route were known as caravanserai. For ten points each:
Name this trade route that lasted for over ten centuries and connected Europe to the continent from which its namesake commodity originated, Asia
This Italian merchant wrote about the Far East in his Travels after he served in the court of Kublai Khan. He traveled the Silk Road with Niccolo and Maffeo.
This other traveler journeyed across the Middle East and Asia, recording his travels to places like the Delhi Sultanate. He was inspired to visit various parts of the world after going to Mecca from his homeland of Morocco.
the Silk Road
Marco Polo
Muhammad Ibn Battuta &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: How much do you know about the New Deal? Let’s find out, for ten points each:
The New Deal was a series of reform programs instituted during the two terms of this 32nd president to alleviate the Great Depression.
This bill from the New Deal aimed to raise the price of crops by paying farmers subsidies to kill excess livestock and leave a portion of their land unfarmed, which would prevent crop surplus. A namesake agency was created to manage it.
The Second New Deal featured this bill, which established the rights of workers to form labor unions and engage in collective bargaining. It is alternatively known as the National Labor Relations Act of 1935.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [accept FDR, prompt on “Roosevelt”]
Agricultural Adjustment Act
Wagner Act &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This man became the leader of his party after the Siege of Alcazar. For ten points each:
Name this leader of the Falange and generalissimo of the Nationalists who was succeeded by Juan Carlos I.
Franco lead Nationalists forces in the civil war of this European country, which he was the fascist dictator of from 1939-1975.
The Comintern organized these military units of volunteers from various countries to assist the Popular Front in the Spanish Civil War. The Connolly Column and one named for Abraham Lincoln were two of these volunteer groups.
Francisco Franco y Bahamonde
Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]
International Brigades [accept Brigadas Internacionales] &lt;GM+RP&gt;
Bonus: James II was thought to have suffered a nosebleed at the start of this supposedly bloodless event. For ten points each:
Name this 17th century event in which William and Mary were invited into England to overthrow James II, who was strongly disliked for his support of Catholicism.
Tensions against James II grew dramatically after he unexpectedly had a child with Mary of Modena. That baby became known by this name due to rumors that the child was not James’s son, but was smuggled into the royal bedchamber in a specific object.
During the Glorious Revolution this document was passed in 1689, reaffirming civil liberties like habeas corpus, and granting the parliament the right to make laws and levy taxes.
Glorious Revolution [accept Revolution of 1688]
warming-pan baby (prompt on partial answer)
Bill of Rights &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: Name these Mesoamerican civilizations. For ten points each:
Archaeologists have discovered rubber artifacts which indicate that this civilization may have been the first to play the sacrificial ballgame, but they are best known for their iconic basalt statues of heads, which weigh several tons.
Like the Olmecs, these ancient people of Peru are well known for their works of art. These people created several “trophy heads” as well as namesake “lines” in the desert, which could be seen in their entirety from surrounding hills.
This civilization, that was centered on the Yucatan peninsula, created a calendar that predicted the end of the world to be on December 21, 2012, and built the city of Chichen Itza.
Olmec
Nazca
Maya &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: A famous photograph taken at this location by Jeff Widener shows a man with a shopping bag standing in front of a line of tanks. For ten points each:
Name this location in Beijing, the site of violent protesting in 1989, where students demanded for democracy and freedom of speech.
The Tiananmen Square riots were suppressed by this “paramount leader” of the Communist Party who began a liberalization movement in China.
Deng Xiaoping enacted this man’s Four Modernizations to rejuvenate China’s economy. This first Premier of China met secretly with Henry Kissinger during Nixon’s visit to China, and after his death, Deng was placed under house arrest.
Tiananmen Square
Deng Xiaoping
Zhou Enlai &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The Quasi-War began after this event. For ten points each:
Elbridge Gerry, John Marshall, and Charles Pinckney eventually returned to the United States when they received threats after refusing to pay bribes in this political incident.
The XYZ Affair occurred under the presidency of this man. His brother led the Sons of Liberty and his son eventually became president as well.
Another notable event during the presidency of John Adams was the passage of this legislation. These four bills made it even more difficult for immigrants to become citizens and allowed the president to imprison and deport citizens.
XYZ Affair
John Adams (do not accept or prompt on “John Quincy Adams”)
Alien and Sedition Acts &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This man created the Natal Indian Congress, which aimed to combat unfair treatment against Indians in South Africa. For ten points each:
Name this Indian independence leader, famous for his salt marches, who advocated for equal treatment for untouchables, and nonviolent practices.
This first prime minister of India gave a speech entitled “The light has gone out of our lives” after Gandhi was assassinated, and two years after this man’s death his daughter Indira Gandhi became prime minister.
Nehru delivered this other speech on the night of India’s independence, describing how India will become new again and give equality to all, “never allow[ing] that torch of freedom to be blown out”.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (both underlined parts required; prompt on Gandhi; accept Mahatma Gandhi)
Jawaharlal Nehru
Tryst with Destiny speech &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: This ruler’s heart lies in Stockholm’s Riddarholm Church. For ten points each:
Name this Swedish king from the House of Vasa, a “Lion of the North” who died at the Battle of Lutzen.
Gustavus Adolphus commanded Sweden in this war, which consisted of four phases and ended with the Treaty of Westphalia.
After Gustavus Adolphus died, this advisor of his took charge and continued to lead Swedish forces. He would go on to serve as advisor to Gustavus Adolphus’ daughter and successor, Cristina.
Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden [or Gustav Adolf; or Gustavus II Adolf]]
Thirty Years’ War
Axel Oxenstierna &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Identify the following World War II battles of the Pacific Theater, for ten points each:
This 1942 battle proved to be a turning point in the Pacific campaign after all four of Japan’s aircraft carriers were demolished by the U.S. Navy, led by Chester Nimitz.
Three years after Midway, the Allies were victorious at this lengthy battle fought shortly prior to the bombing of Hiroshima. After a series of “island hopping”, the Allies reached the Ryukyu Islands, where this battle would be fought.
The Pacific Theater also included this battle, which was not only the largest naval battle of the war, but in all of history. It included several kamikaze attacks and commenced after the Allies invaded the Phillipines.
Battle of Midway
Battle of Okinawa
Battle of Leyte Gulf &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Lars Porsena ruled this civilization’s city of Clusium. For ten points each:
Name this ancient Italian civilization whose people referred to themselves as the Rasenna and lived on the coast of the Tyrrhenian Sea.
The fall of the Etruscans came with the rise of this civilization. After killing his twin Remus, Romulus founded this city on Palatine Hill.
The last King of Rome was this man, who was of Etruscan descent. After his son raped Lucretia, the Roman Kingdom fell and became the Roman Republic.
Etruscans
Rome
Tarquin the Proud &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Thinkers like Mary Astell and Mary Wollstonecraft added new perspectives to the “woman’s question” during this movement. For ten points each:
Name this 18th century intellectual movement in Europe that championed human reason, whose thinkers included Rousseau and Voltaire.
Voltaire famously had a long-running correspondence with this Russian “enlightened despot,” who also partitioned Poland.
This advisor and lover of Catherine the Great organized the coup that overthrew Paul III and put Catherine on the throne. He also gave a namesake diamond to Catherine in an attempt to get her back.
Enlightenment [accept Age of Enlightenment]
Catherine the Great [accept Catherine II]
Grigory Grigorievich Orlov &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: The losing commander of this battle exclaimed, “my men have become women, and my women men”. For ten points each:
Name this ancient naval battle fought in 480 BC; a major Greek victory in the Greco-Persian Wars.
Before the Battle of Salamis, the Persian army under Xerxes defeated a force of 300 men led by Leonidas, who was a king of this militaristic city-state in Greece.
This Athenian commanded the Greek navy to victory at Salamis. Earlier, this man suffered a loss to Xerxes I at the Battle of Artemisium.
Battle of Salamis
Sparta
Themistocles &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk ended Russia’s participation in this war. For ten points each:
Name this war between the Allies and Central Powers that began after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.
Although this nation was the target of the Arab Revolt during World War I, it earned victories at the Siege of Kut and the Battle of Gallipoli. In 1918, after the war, this nation was partitioned under the Treaty of Sévres.
The Ottomans were also the perpetrators of this event during World War I, which exterminated a certain ethnic group of the Caucasus. Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code forbids the discussion of this genocide.
World War I [prompt on “World War”, prompt on “Great War”]
Ottoman Empire
Armenian Genocide [accept Medz Yeghern, Armenian Holocaust, or equivalents mentioning Armenians] &lt;GM&gt;
Bonus: This man founded the <em>Il Risorgimento</em> newspaper to champion his country’s independence from Austria. For ten points each:
Name this prime minister of Piedmont-Sardinia who became the first prime minister of a unified Italy.
Cavour initially enlisted the help of this French ruler to fight for Italian unification, who eventually backed out in fear of offending French Catholics. He is better known as the last emperor of France and founder of the Second Empire.
This infamous chant for Italian unification was an acronym of an Italian composer, which shouted for Victor Emmanuel to become king.
Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour [accept Camillo di Benso, Conte di Cavour]
Napoleon III [prompt on “Napoleon”]
VERDI [or Victor Emmanuel, Rey d'Italia] &lt;GM&gt;
The <em>USS Oklahoma</em> and <em>Arizona</em> were lost during this event. For 10 points each—
Name this attack by the Japanese on a U.S. naval base at the Hawaiian island of Oahu.
During the Battle of Leyte [LAY-tee] Gulf, the USS St. Lo was the first warship sunk by one of these Japanese suicide attacks. The term means "divine wind."
The Japanese navy, including its pilots, was commanded by this admiral whose plane was downed during 1943’s Operation Vengeance.
Pearl Harbor
kamikaze
Isorku Yamamoto
After Roman forces lost the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest in 9 A.D., this leader said, "Quintilius Varus, give me back my legions!" For 10 points each—
Name this emperor whose birth name was Gaius Octavius.
In 8 B.C. Augustus assumed this office whose duties included overseeing the counting of the people. This official could also remove names from the senator list; overseeing publications is an act such officials still do today.
When Jesus said, "Give unto Caesar what is Caesar's" it reflected that Bethlehem became part of this Roman province in 6 A.D. The province's prefects included Pontius Pilate.
Augustus Caesar or Imperator Caesar Divi Filius Augustus (prompt on "Caesar")
censor
Judea (or Judaea or Iudaea; do not accept “Judah”, which was the predecessor kingdom) [by the time of Jesus the emperor was Tiberius Julius Caesar, Augustus's adopted son]
For 10 points each—give these answers related to a Virginia family:
This general of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia lost the battle of Gettysburg and surrendered his army to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Courthouse.
First name required. This father of Robert E. Lee earned the nickname “Light Horse” for his cavalry skills. He was the winning commander at the 1778 Battle of Edgar's Lane.
Richard Henry Lee proposed the motion for independence while serving in this body that met in Philadelphia between 1775 and 1781.
Robert E(dward) Lee
Light Horse Harry or Henry Lee III
Second Continental Congress (prompt on partial answers)
For 10 points each—name these people and groups who have won multiple Nobel prizes:
This Polish scientist, the wife of Pierre, won both for her work on radioactivity and also for isolating radium.
Henry Dunant founded this organization honored for peace efforts three times. This group known for its disaster relief and blood drives uses a flag similar to Switzerland’s but with the colors switched.
This man’s two prizes were for the study of chemical bonds and peace activism against nuclear weapons. His research into using Vitamin C to treat heart disease and prevent colds was less well received.
Marie Skłodowska Curie (or Maria Salomea Skłodowska)
The International Committee of the Red Cross
Linus Pauling
For 10 points each—name these similar organizations:
In January 2017 Mike Pompeo was installed as the new head of this spy agency whose headquarters is in Langley, Virginia.
This is the alphanumeric name given to the Secret Intelligence Service currently headed by Alex Younger. Seen in James Bond films, until 1992 the British government denied it existed.
With a name meaning “The Institute,” this Israeli intelligence agency led the 1960 effort to abduct Adolf Eichmann out of Argentina.
CIA or Central Intelligence Agency
MI6 [M-I-six]
Mossad or HaMossad leModiʿin uleTafkidim Meyuḥadim
This leader merged several factions into the Falange political party. For 10 points each—
Name this man who ruled as “El Caudillo”. After his 1975 death, Juan Carlos became a king.
Franco was a leader of what country whose cities include Barcelona and Madrid?
Franco’s regime is often cited as an example of this political ideology that stresses one-party rule, nationalism, and a controlled economy. Often a dictatorship, Robert Paxton wrote a book titled “The Anatomy” of this.
Francisco Franco
Kingdom of Spain or Reino de España
Fascism (accept word forms; accept The Anatomy of Fascism)
This term is a portmanteau and refers to the steps to be taken as the result of a June 2016 referendum. For 10 points each—
Give this term for the process by which the United Kingdom will leave the European Union.
Brexit was formally initiated in March 2017 per the procedure outlined in Article 50 of this treaty. It is named for the southwestern European capital where it was signed.
The newest member of the EU is this country which joined in 2013. Its leader, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović works in its Presidential palace at Zagreb.
Brexit
Treaty of Lisbon
Republic of Croatia
This colony was merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1691. For 10 points each--
Name this colony founded by the Pilgrims, later commemorated when the year 1620 was carved into a nearby rock.
Forty-one of the journey’s passengers signed this agreement that laid the intent for colonial government. It begins by describing the subjects as loyal to King James.
One Compact signer was this military advisor. A Henry Wadsworth Longfellow poem describes his unrequited love for Priscilla Mullins.
Plymouth Colony (accept Plymouth Rock)
The Mayflower Compact
Myles (or Miles) Standish (accept The Courtship of Miles Standish)
For 10 points each—give these answers related to countries no longer on the map:
In 1964 the African countries of Tanganyika [TAN-guh-NEE-kah] and Zanzibar merged to form this country whose name incorporates syllables from both predecessors.
Montenegro, Kosovo, and Slovenia were all part of this country that broke up in the early 1990s. Josip Broz Tito ruled it for 27 years.
Between the 1960s and 1990 there were North and South countries with this name. A current conflict here rages between Houthis, President Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi, and others.
United Republic of Tanzania
Yugoslavia (or Kingdom of Yugoslavia or Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia)
Republic of Yemen
Jihadist groups operating out of this country include Abu Sayyaf and Ansar Khalifa. For 10 points each—
Name this country where the police force has cracked down on drugs in Operation Double Barrel. This country’s capital is Manila.
The drug war has been a major emphasis by this man who assumed the Philippine presidency in 2016.
Duterte drew widespread condemnation when he compared his country's 3 million drug addicts to the millions killed in this 1940s genocide. This term is derived from ancient words for burnt offerings.
Republic of the Philippines or Republika ng Pilipinas
Rodrigo ("Rody") Duterte [doo-TUR-tay]
holocaust
A bridge across the River Thames links this area with the Lambeth district. For 10 points each—
Name this area of London that includes Buckingham Palace and a structure where the British Parliament meets. Its name reflects that central London is it to its east.
Blowing up the House of Lords to assassinate King James I [“the first”] was the goal of this 1605 plot. The British celebrate its failure on Guy Fawkes Day.
This group injured eleven when it detonated a bomb at Parliament in 1974. It historically had goals similar to, and shared some leaders with the Sinn Féin [SHIN FAYN] political party.
Westminster
Gunpowder Plot
(P)IRA or (Provisional) Irish Republican Army
For 10 points each—name these historical penal colonies:
James Oglethorpe wanted this American colony to be a place where prison debtors could start anew. In reality few convicts were brought here, and instead it allowed slavery in 1749.
The British Empire sent convicts to this country's state of New South Wales in 1788. Those settlers built its city of Sydney.
After his conviction, the French sent Alfred Dreyfus to this island of the Salvation's Islands, which are off the coast of French Guiana.
Georgia
Commonwealth of Australia
Devil's Island or Ile du Diable
For 10 points each—give these answers related to World War I aviation:
Tom Rees was on the first aircraft shot down by this German fighter pilot credited with 80 combat victories.
The L 11 was one of these rigid airships that flew reconnaissance and bombing missions during the Battle of Jutland. Germany built one christened the USS Los Angeles after the war.
The craft this company built for the British military included the 1½ Strutter, the Triplane, and the Camel.
The Red Baron or Manfred von Richthofen
Zeppelin
Sopwith Aviation Company or Sopwith Aviation &amp; Engineering
The military built Fort Gibson here in 1795. For 10 points each—
Name this island that processed 12 million newcomers when it housed an immigration station. This island is about a mile north of the Statue of Liberty.
One person who passed through Ellis Island is Bruno Richard Hauptmann. In 1936 Hauptmann was executed for kidnapping and killing the son of what aviator who crossed the Atlantic?
This man worked as an interpreter at Ellis Island before serving as New York's mayor from 1934 to 1945. An airport is named for him.
Ellis Island
Charles Lindbergh
Fiorello La Guardia
For 10 points each—name these California governors:
This man with a colorful name is currently serving his fourth term as California governor, having held the office in the 1970s.
In 2011, Brown succeeded this Austrian actor. This star of Conan The Barbarian and The Terminator also hosted The New Celebrity Apprentice.
When this man served as governor between 1967 and 1975, he controversially sent highway patrolmen to quell Berkeley student protests.
(Edmund Gerald) Jerry Brown (Jr.)
Arnold Schwarzenegger
: Ronald (Wilson) Reagan
In January 2017 this measure of the stock market first hit twenty thousand. For 10 points each—
Name this Industrial Average of thirty companies created by a Wall Street Journal editor.
One company currently in the Dow is this athletic apparel company founded by Phil Knight, which uses a swoosh logo.
A longtime member of the Dow is this chemical company headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware. Its employees discovered kevlar and teflon.
Dow Jones Industrial Average
Nike
DuPont (or E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company)
For 10 points each—give these crime bosses:
This man was the protégé of Chicago mobster Johnny Torrio and is often accused of attempting to kill a rival in the 1929 Saint Valentine’s Day Massacre.
This man briefly ran the Las Vegas Flamingo, but was shot in 1947 just months after the casino opened. His nickname was from people saying he was crazier than a bedbug.
This Mexican drug lord headed the Sinaloa Cartel. Using a tunnel, he escaped from prison in 2015 but was recaptured and extradited to the U.S.
(Alphonse Gabriel) Al Capone
Bugsy Siegel
El Chapo or Joaquín Archivaldo Guzmán Loera (prompt on “Shorty”)
The Hongwu Emperor founded this dynasty in 1368. For 10 points each—
Name this dynasty which was replaced by the Qing [CHING] in the 17th century.
The Ming dynasty constructed this Beijing imperial palace. It is said to have 9,999 rooms and its name referred to the policy that people could neither enter nor leave without the emperor's sayso.
The Ming dynasty leased this trading post to the Portuguese. Hong Kong is 40 miles across the Pearl River Delta from this territory now called the Monte Carlo of the Orient due to its 33 casinos.
Ming
Forbidden City (or Forbidden Palace) or Zíjinchéng
Macau or Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China [it was part of the Portuguese Empire after the Opium Wars and was returned to China in 1999]
For 10 points each—give these months and days:
Pi Day is observed on this month and day derived from its digits.
Give any day on which the northern solstice can occur, marking the first day of summer in the northern hemisphere.
This date titles a Francisco Goya painting showing a firing squad and a group of prisoners. The work depicts a scene during an 1808 invasion.
March 14th (or 3/14)
June 20th, June 21st, or June 22nd (or 6/20, 6/21, 6/22) [it shifts six hours each year and currently moves back to the 20th on leap years]
May 3rd (or 5/3; accept The Third of May 1808 or El tres de mayo de 1808 en Madrid)
The North American portion of the War of the Spanish Succession is known as her war. For 10 points each—
Name this last English monarch of the House of Stuart. The pirate Blackbeard sailed a ship called this monarch's "Revenge".
Queen Anne's predecessors were these rulers placed on the throne through the Glorious Revolution. A Virginia college is named for this pair.
During Anne's reign, the kingdoms of England and Scotland were joined into Great Britain through this legislation.
Queen Anne (accept Queen Anne's Revenge)
William III and Mary II of England
Acts of Union, 1707 (or Union with Scotland Act 1706 and Union with England Act, 1707; accept Articles of Union or Treaty of Union)
For 10 points each—give these answers related to Franklin Pierce:
In the 1852 election, Pierce defeated this party's candidate Winfield Scott. Zachary Taylor was a successful candidate of this party that initially opposed Andrew Jackson.
Pierce signed an 1854 act forming Nebraska and this other central plains territory. The controversy between pro- and anti-slavery factions here led to its "bleeding" conflict.
In 1853 Pierce appointed this man as minister to Mexico. This figure negotiated a treaty that purchased the land that is now southern Arizona.
Whig Party
Kansas (accept Kansas-Nebraska Act; accept Bleeding or Bloody Kansas)
James Gadsden (accept Gadsden Purchase)
For 10 points each—name these Pacific explorers:
This figure crossed on the Pacific in 1521, but was killed on the Philippine island of Mactan. His crew completed the world’s first circumnavigation.
An island country with capital Avarua is named for this explorer who labeled Hawaii the "Sandwich Islands". A stolen boat led to a conflict and the death of this HMS Resolution captain.
The Discovery and Chatham sailed in this man's 1791 expedition that visited Australia and Tahiti. He gave Puget Sound and Mount St. Helen's their names and saw southwestern Canada.
Ferdinand Magellan
James Cook (accept Cook Islands)
George Vancouver
This figure led the army that won the 1187 Battle of Hattin. For 10 points each—
Name this man who founded the Ayyubid [eye-OO-bid] dynasty, and whose brother Tughtakin was the emir of Yemen and Arabia.
Saladin battled against the forces of Philip II of France and Frederick Barbarossa in the third of these Christian efforts to gain the Holy Land.
As ruler of Egypt and Syria, Saladin had this title which is used by Oman’s current ruler.
Saladin or An-Nasir Salah ad-Din Yusuf ibn Ayyub
Crusades
sultan
This politician joined his country's parliament when he represented the district of Papineau. For 10 points each—
Name this man who moved into Rideau Cottage in 2015 upon becoming prime minister.
Trudeau is the leader of this country whose provinces include Alberta and Saskatchewan.
Justin's father Pierre was prime minister when Canada joined this organization that last met in Italy in May 2017. The countries in these summits represent 32 percent of the world's purchasing power.
Justin Trudeau
Canada
G7 or Group of 7 (accept G6 or Group of 6, as that was the group's name before Canada joined and G8 or Group of 8, the name when Russia was a member)
This leader was killed by a member of the People's Will, Ignacy Hryniewiecki. For 10 points each—
Name this Romanov who ruled Russia from 1855 until 1881, the second of his name.
Alexander II was the leader who sold this territory to the United States for $7 million. Its perceived lack of value led it to be known as "Seward's Folly."
Alexander's 1861 Manifesto freed these peasants of the Russian Empire. The term for these vassals is derived from the Latin word for "slave".
Alexander II or Aleksandr II Nikolaevich
Alaska
serf
For 10 points each—name these countries that gained 21<sup>st</sup> century independence:
The 2014 Bentiu massacre happened in this country that separated from Sudan in 2011 and has endured a civil war since.
The Brussels Agreement is between this state which declared independence in 2008 and Serbia, which disputes that sovereignty. This country's capital is Pristina.
The political party Fretilin briefly held power here in 1975 before Operation Lotus made it the 27th province of a neighbor. Tetum is an official language of this country that regained independence in 2002.
Republic of South Sudan
Republic of Kosovo or Republika e Kosovës
East Timor or Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste or or Repúblika Demokrátika Timór-Leste [which was invaded by Indonesia in 1975]
Between 1801 and 1913 this was not given orally, and for many years was called "the President's Annual Message to Congress". For 10 points each—
Give this speech often delivered in January.
It is customary to keep a cabinet member in a secret location during State of the Union addresses. Such a person is known by this term that titles a Kiefer Sutherland show.
The president's entry is announced by this officer responsible for order in areas belonging to the House. The current one is Paul Irving.
State of the Union
Designated Survivor
Sergeant at Arms of the United States House of Representatives
Consider the city of Gdańsk [guh-DANSK], also known as Danzig, a city on the Baltic Sea. For 10 points each--
This city is currently part of what country whose capital is Warsaw?
During the 1793 Second Partition of Poland, Gdańsk became part of this kingdom whose rulers included Frederick the Great and Wilhelm I [VIL-helm “the first”].
The 14th century saw Gdańsk conquered by this Christian military order whose initial purpose was to aid Holy Land pilgrims. They built a Baltic fortress at Malbork.
Republic of Poland or Rzeczpospolita Polska
Prussia(n empire) (do not accept “Germany”)
Teutonic Knights or Teutonic Order or Order of Brothers of the German House of Saint Mary in Jerusalem
This figure was freed after the 1945 Loyalty Day demonstrations. For 10 points each—
Name this president whose supporters were killed at the 1955 bombing of the Plaza de Mayo square in Buenos Aires. This man was married to Eva Duarte, known as "Evita".
Perón was president of this South American country that shares the Patagonia region and the Tierra del Fuego archipelago with Chile.
After Juan's third wife Isabel was overthrown, the subsequent military government conducted this "foul" effort to make left-wing political opponents disappear.
Juan Perón
Argentina or The Argentine Republic or República Argentina
Dirty War or Guerra Sucia
This president argued with Nicholas Biddle, head of the Second Bank of the United States. For 10 points each—
Name this seventh president who had no Vice President for part of a term after John C. Calhoun resigned.
Calhoun's resignation was related to this 1828 legislation that South Carolina wished to "nullify". It placed a high tax on imported goods.
President Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act in 1830. This three-word phrase was used for the forced southeast tribal relocations that resulted.
Andrew Jackson
Tariff of Abominations (prompt on partial answers)
Trail of Tears
The current king of this country is Norodom Sihamoni. For 10 points each—
Name this country known as Democratic Kampuchea in the late 1970s when it was ruled by Pol Pot.
Pol Pot was a leader of this group whose name reflected its Communist leaning and included the French word for "red".
The Khmer Rouge destroyed many religious structures, but spared this temple on Cambodia's flag. Its construction was begun in the 12th century by Suryavarman II [“the second”].
Kingdom of Cambodia
Khmer Rouge (accept Khmer Kror-Horm)
Prasat Angkor Wat
The Composition of 1867 established this dual monarchy. For 10 points each—
Name this constitutional union of a kingdom and an empire overseen by the Emperor-King Franz Joseph I [“the first”] for much of its existence.
Austria-Hungary was part of this side defeated by the Triple Entente in World War I.
The Hungarian portions of the territory were officially called the “Lands of the Crown of“ this 10th-century saint. A Budapest basilica is named for this first Hungarian king.
Austria-Hungary or the Austro-Hungarian Empire (or Österreich-Ungarn)
Central Powers or Quadruple Alliance
Saint Stephen or Arpad(hazi) Vajk
In ancient Rome the tribunes and consuls had this power, which they called the <em>intercessio</em>. For 10 points each—
Give this Latin term meaning "I forbid" in which an official stops the enactment of legislation.
This president had vetoes thwarted by Congress 15 times, which is still a record. One such override this impeached Tennessean saw was his 1866 rejection of the Freedmen's Bureau.
Another overridden veto was this 1867 act that restricted powers to remove government officers. The House claimed Johnson violated this bill when Johnson fired Secretary of War Edwin Stanton.
veto
Andrew Johnson (prompt on "Johnson")
Tenure of Office Act
The Kazakhstan government plans to abandon this writing system, a relic from its time in the Soviet Union. For 10 points each—
Give this script named for a brother of Methodius who taught Christianity to the Slavic peoples.
Cyrillic script is used for this language with the eighth-most number of native speakers. It was the official language of the Soviet Union.
The unstressed "a" and "o" are the closest equivalents Russian has to this sound, also called the mid central, or neutral vowel. It is depicted in dictionary pronunciations as an upside-down "e" and often represents the "uh" sound.
Cyrillic script or writing
Russian
schwa
For 10 points each--name these things sought by New World explorers:
A popular legend states Ponce de León searched for these waters that would halt his aging.
Marcos de Niza told Francisco Coronado about these places in the American Southwest, but Coronado’s expedition found no such riches.
Diego de Ordaz is one conquistador who looked for the ceremonial place where this mythical chief covered himself in gold and jumped into a lake. The term is Spanish for “the golden one.”
Fountain of Youth
Cities of Cíbola or the Seven Cities of Gold (prompt on partial answers)
El Dorado (or El Rey Dorado)
For 10 points each—give these answers related to books about politicians:
Although the main character was named Jack Stanton, the novel Primary Colors was a thinly-veiled account of this man’s 1992 campaign. His presidency was between the two Bushes.
This volume by John F. Kennedy describes acts of political bravery by eight historical senators.
Randy Shilts’ biography The Mayor of Castro Street is about this member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, who was assassinated in 1978. Sean Penn portrayed him in a 2008 film.
(William) Bill Jefferson Clinton (or William Jefferson Blythe III)
Profiles in Courage
Harvey Milk
Members of this family include kings Fahd and Abdullah. For 10 points each—
Give this Middle Eastern family name or its adjective form. They are the descendants of the founder of the Emirate of Diriyah ["dairy"- ah].
This current head of the House of Saud ascended to the throne when Abdullah died in 2015.
This figure met with King Fahd in 1990 and offered to defend Saudi Arabia from Iraq. Instead the Saudis turned to a U.S.-led coalition and banished this figure to Sudan, where he grew al-Qaeda.
House of Saud or the Saudi royal family (do not accept "Saudi Arabia")
Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud
Osama bin Laden or Usama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden
Some of this religion's earliest beliefs were collected in the Nihon Shoki. For 10 points each—
Name this Japanese belief system devoted to kami worship. The Yasukuni Shrine is one structure visited by its devotees.
Shinto was declared the Japanese state religion after this 1860s event which saw the overthrow of the Tokugawa Shogunate and the elevation of the emperor to his former position.
Juka Shintō was a movement that unified Shintō with the teachings of this ancient Chinese philosopher. His ideas are collected in The Analects.
Shintō (prompt on "kami-no-michi")
Meiji Restoration
Confucius
The Toronto lawyer Garry Hoy accidentally did this to himself when he wanted to demonstrate a skyscraper’s glass was unbreakable. He threw himself at the surface and fell to his death. For 10 points each—
Give this term for throwing someone out a window.
The Defenestration of Prague, in which Catholic officials were thrown out a castle window, ignited this war. The conflict is named for the fact that it lasted from 1618 until 1648.
During this time there were several rebellions against the crown by these French Protestants. Giacomo Meyerbeer wrote an opera titled for them.
defenestration (accept autodefenestration)
Thirty Years' War
Huguenots [the French pronunciation is hew-gen-KNOW]
Webster's defines this person's surname as "a man who is a promiscuous and unscrupulous lover." For 10 points each—
Name this notorious Italian adventurer whose autobiography Histoire de ma vie describes attending an opera and talking to the Madame de Pompadour.
Madame de Pompadour was the mistress of this king who reigned in France from 1715 until 1774. The French Revolution occurred more than a decade after his death.
Pompadour was a patron of this project led by Denis Diderot that had to be continued in secret because it criticized the church. The philosopher Charles de Montesquieu contributed "An Essay on Taste" to this reference material.
Giacomo Cassanova
Louis XV [the 15th] Bourbon
The Encyclopedia or Encyclopédie
In 2013 Abū Bakr al-Baghdadi became leader of this organization. For 10 points each—
Name this militant group that follows Sunni Islam. It controls some parts of northern Iraq.
The Islamic State declared itself one of these religious governments with Baghdadi the successor to Muhammad. Historic ones of these included the Umayyads [oo-MY-ahds] and Abbasids [ah-BAH-sids].
The Libyan National Army fought ISIS forces around this port. The 2012 attack on a diplomatic post here was a significant controversy for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
ISIL or The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant or ISIS or The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or Daesh or IS or Islamic State
caliph(ate)
Benghazi (City)
For 10 points each—name these African countries:
The April 2011 Battle of Abidjan was part of the recent civil war in this country that was historically a region to trade for elephant tusks.
The assassination of Juvénal Habyarimana ignited a 1994 genocide in this country. Its main clans are the Hutu, Tutsi, and Twa.
Joseph Kony led the Lord's Resistance Army in this central African nation whose president is Yoweri Museveni.
Ivory Coast or Republic of Côte d'Ivoire or République de Côte d'Ivoire
Republic of Rwanda
Republic of Uganda or Jamhuri ya Uganda
Rose Mary Woods lived here in 1969 when burglars stole jewelry. For 10 points each—
Name this Washington D.C. complex where the Democratic National Committee was headquartered in 1972.
The DNC break-in ultimately led to the resignation of what U.S. president in 1974?
President Trump's firing of FBI director James Comey was compared to this October 1973 event. During it, Nixon ordered the termination of special prosecutor Archibald Cox, who was investigating Watergate.
Watergate complex (accept Watergate Office Building)
Richard (Milhouse) Nixon
Saturday Night Massacre
This country was led by Hugo Chávez until his 2013 death. For 10 points each—
Name this South American country currently suffering an economic depression.
Venezuela’s lack of goods has raised this economic indicator to levels above 700 percent. This general increase in prices has cost-push and demand-pull varieties.
Ecuador and Venezuela are the two western hemisphere members of this organization that coordinates policies among oil producers.
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela or República Bolivariana de Venezuela
inflation (accept hyperinflation)
OPEC or Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
In 1963 a committee was formed to investigate the JFK assassination. For 10 points each—
The Commission is commonly named for this Chief Justice who headed it. He served on the court until 1969.
The Commission concluded Kennedy was assassinated by this man who had previously defected to the Soviet Union. Jack Ruby killed him as he was being moved to a jail.
One Michigan member of the commission was this House Minority Leader, who later ascended to other posts upon the resignations of others.
Earl Warren (accept Warren Commission)
Lee Harvey Oswald
Gerald Ford (or Leslie Lynch King, Jr.)
Shortly after the Diwali holiday, this country’s prime minister announced the 500- and 1000-rupee banknotes were being removed from circulation to combat corruption. For 10 points each—
Name this country where many banks are headquartered in Mumbai.
This Indian prime minister, the successor of Manmohan Singh, issued the decree.
The term "rupee" means a "coin of silver" in what language used for ancient texts including the Yoga sutras of Patanjali?
Republic of India or Bhārat Gaṇarājya
Narendra Modi
Sanskrit or Saṃskṛtam
After the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 this group was charged with building river levees to protect cities. For 10 points each—
Name this construction management agency run by the Department of Defense, whose current head is Todd Semonite.
In its early days, the superintendent of this cadet school was an Engineer. Most graduates of this New York school are commissioned as second lieutenants.
Major General Leslie Groves was a Corps officer who oversaw this project that employed physicist Robert Oppenheimer. This project conducted the 1945 Trinity test in the remote New Mexico desert to assess its product.
Army Corps of Engineers (prompt on "USACE" or "CoE")
West Point or United States Military Academy or USMA
Manhattan Project
The phrase "Kilroy was here" was popular in the examples of these drawings created by American servicemen. For 10 points each—
Give this term derived from Italian for "scratched", referring to sketched words or elaborate paintings that can illegally decorate public property.
The identity of this England-based graffiti artist is unknown. He depicted Steve Jobs in The Son of a Migrant from Syria, a mural at the Calais refugee camp.
Banksy drew a dove wearing a bulletproof vest in one work in this territory and a girl frisking a soldier in another. Israel built a much-graffitied wall on its border with this region whose cities include Ramallah and Hebron.
graffito or graffiti
Bansky
West Bank (prompt on "Palestinian territories" or "Palestine")
He was the third son of John, the founder of the House of Aviz. For 10 points each—
Name this royal figure who led a 1437 force that failed to capture Tangier. He also organized several expeditions to explore Africa's west coast.
Prince Henry the Navigator lived in this country later ruled by the house of Braganza. Its occupies the western portion of the Iberian peninsula.
During Henry's time, the Portuguese explored and settled this archipelago of north Atlantic islands, whose land masses include São Miguel and Terceira.
Prince Henry the Navigator or Henrique of Portugal, Duke of Viseu
Kingdom of Portugal or Reino de Portugal
The Azores or Autonomous Region of the Azores
In 2015 Virginia made it a misdemeanor to have this symbol on license plates. For 10 points each—
Name this symbol designed by Nicola Marschall. It flew over a capital at Richmond until an 1865 surrender.
Following the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church shooting, this South Carolina governor called for the flag's removal. She is now the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations.
In 2016 this largest Protestant body in the U.S. voted to stop displaying the flag in churches. Billy Graham was ordained by this denomination with a cardinal direction in its name.
Confederate flag or Stars and Bars (accept variants like the battle flag of the Confederate States of America)
(Nimrata) Nikki Haley
SBC or Southern Baptist Convention (prompt on "Baptist")
James Hoban and Benjamin Henry Latrobe helped to design this building. For 10 points each—
Name this building at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. Its space includes the Situation Room and the Oval Office.
Officially the Naval Support Facility Thurmont, this Maryland site has served as a presidential retreat. Jimmy Carter negotiated a treaty between Egypt and Israel here.
This Palm Beach property was built in the 1920s by Majorie Merriweather Post and given to the National Parks Service when she died. Post wanted it to be a Winter White House, a hope fulfilled since President Trump now owns it.
The White House
Camp David
Mar-a-Lago [Congress relinquished the property in 1981 and the Post Foundation put it up for sale]
This site was studied by the archaeologist William Stukeley. For 10 points each—
Name this megalithic monument on England's Salisbury Plain. It is the remains of a ring of heavy objects some claim are from a Preseli Hills quarry.
Stukeley connected Stonehenge to these Celtic priests of ancient Britain. David Loxley leads a modern order named for these figures.
In 1720 Stukeley worked with this astronomer attempting to date Stonehenge. This man suggested that a comet might have caused Noah's flood and succeeded John Flamsteed as the Astronomer Royal.
Stonehenge
druids
Edmond Halley
For 10 points each—give these answers related to religion in early America:
This group sought to remove Catholic practices from the Church of England. Increase and Cotton Mather were ministers in this church prominent in New England.
Puritans hung the four Boston Martyrs for preaching this faith. William Penn was a member of this Christian group founded by George Fox.
This man founded Maryland as a refuge for English Catholics. His baronic title was Irish for “town of the big house.”
Puritans
Quakers (or Religious Society of Friends)
George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore (accept either underlined name; accept Lord Baltimore)
For 10 points each—name these Caribbean countries:
The leader Toussaint L'Ouverture helped this former French colony gain its independence. 20th-century leaders here included Jean-Bertrand Aristide and François Duvalier [doo-VAL-ee-ay].
Escaped slaves known as Maroons fought the British in conflicts on this island country whose cities include Montego Bay, Ocho Rios, and Kingston.
Blackbeard and Calico Jack were some of those who used this country as a base during the 1710s “Republic of Pirates” here. After that, Woodes Rogers became the first Royal Governor working from Nassau.
Republic of Haiti or République d'Haïti
Jamaica
Commonwealth of the Bahamas
Its text stated "the American continents [are] not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European powers". For 10 points each—
Give this foreign policy named for the fifth U.S. president.
Much of the doctrine was written by this secretary of state under Monroe. Both this man and his father served as president.
The Monroe Doctrine didn't stop the British Empire from declaring this country a British Crown Colony in the 1860s. This country was called British Honduras until 1973.
Monroe Doctrine
John Quincy Adams (do not accept "John Adams"; prompt on "Adams")
Belize
This emperor gained power in 527, and wanted to remove conflicts among the laws, an effort known as his "code". For 10 points each—
Name husband of Theodora who executed Hypatius [high-PAT-tee-US] after the Nika [NEE-kah] riots.
Justinian was a leader of this region also called the Eastern Roman Empire. It was centered at Constantinople until its 15th century demise.
Justinian ended the North African kingdom of this Germanic tribe in a 533 war. The name of this tribe led by Hilderic and Gelimer now describes a person who destroys property.
Justinian the Great or Justinian I [“the first”]
Byzantine Empire
Vandals
For 10 points—give these answers related to anti-discrimination laws:
Congress has passed several acts with this title to protect individual freedoms. Title III ["three"] of the 1964 act with this name forbids public facility access restrictions based on race.
The 24th amendment forbids these payments as a prerequisite for voting. Mississippi's equaled two dollars in 1966.
This 1990 Act required public facilities to be generally accessible, and required businesses to make reasonable employee workplace accommodations for conditions such as epilepsy or cerebral palsy.
Civil Rights Act
poll tax
ADA or Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
It is said this queen committed suicide by allowing an asp to bite her. For 10 points each—
Name this Egyptian queen whose forces lost the Battle of Actium.
Cleopatra’s father and brother both had this Greek name. The first ruler of the dynasty of this name ruled in 305 B.C.
The Greek Ptolemaic [tol-ah-MAY-ick] Kingdom was established after this Macedonian invader died. This man conquered much of the Middle East.
Cleopatra VII Philopator
Ptolemy [TOL-ah-mee] (accept Ptolemaic Dynasty or Ptolemaic Kingdom)
Alexander the Great or Alexander III of Macedon
For 10 points each—name these plants:
This plant commonly displayed at Christmas is named for the first U.S. ambassador to Mexico.
In 1637 the Dutch economy was harmed by the sudden price collapse of these flowers whose species include Bokhara and Viceroy.
The Japanese emperor's throne is named for this flower. In France and Italy it's impolite to give this flower as a gift since it's used to decorate graves.
poinsettia [after Joel Poinsett]
tulip
chrysanthemums
Some estimate this pestilence reduced Europe’s population by 50 percent. For 10 points each—
Give this disease that spread across Europe beginning in 1346.
One monarch who died of plague was this kingdom’s Alfonso XI [“the eleventh”]. This realm united with Aragon in 1469, joining much of modern Spain’s territory.
When bubonic plague spread through Bavaria in 1633, the village of Oberammergau was spared. They thanked God by every 10 years performing this type of play, which depicts the trial, suffering, and death of Christ.
Black Death or bubonic plague
Castile
passion play
For 10 points each—give these terms describing burial sites:
This term generally means tunnels carved for religious purposes and specifically to Roman sites where Marcellinus and Peter are said to be buried.
A Persian ruler and his wife Artemisia were buried in this tomb at Halicarnassus included in the Wonders of the Ancient World.
This term is Greek for "city of the dead". The ancient Egyptians built one at Thebes that includes the Valley of the Kings.
catacombs
Mausoleum at Halicarnassus or Tomb of Mausolus
necropolis
For 10 points—name these figures of the American west:
Sharpshooter Annie Oakley was among those who performed in this man's "Wild West" show. This figure's nickname came from his earlier job supplying laborers with bison meat.
Aaron Copland wrote a ballet about this outlaw whose birth name was Henry. This figure died at the young age of 21 after he was shot by sheriff Pat Garrett.
Surname required. This figure killed David Tutt in a duel and later served as the marshal of Abilene, Kansas. Poker enthusiasts know he was holding aces and eights when he was shot in Deadwood, the so-called "dead man's hand".
Buffalo Bill or William Frederick Cody
Billy the Kid or William H. Bonney (prompt on partial answers)
(James Butler) "Wild Bill" Hickok
For 10 points each—name these locales important in the Napoleonic Wars:
Napoleon met his final defeat at this 1815 battle in present-day Belgium.
Lord Nelson sent the message, "England expects that every man will do his duty" before this 1805 naval battle fought off Spain's southwest coast.
The Battle of Polotsk prevented Napoleon from reaching this city, which was the Russian capital at the time. This city was called Petrograd in the decade following the Russian Revolution.
Battle of Waterloo
Battle of Trafalgar
Saint Petersburg
This space was designed using the Greensward Plan of Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux. For 10 points each—
Name this public space, 843 acres between the east and west sides of Manhattan.
Another Olmstead project was an early design of the campus of this Ithaca, New York school.
Olmstead helped create the Biltmore Estate for a member of this family. Another member of this family was known as "the Commodore" due to his shipping empire.
Central Park
Cornell University
Vanderbilt (accept George Washington Vanderbilt II or Cornelius Vanderbilt)
A lake between New York and Vermont is named for this explorer. For 10 points each—
Name this Frenchman who led troops against the Mohawk people in the 1610 Battle of Sorel.
In 1608 Champlain established the city that is now the capital of this French-speaking Canadian province.
The Mohawk were one of the five original members of this league, which included the Oneida and Seneca nations. A 12th century figure respectfully called the Great Peacemaker created this confederacy.
Samuel de Champlain
Quebec (accept Quebec City)
Iroquois Confederacy (or League) or Haudenosaunee
For 10 points each—give these answers related to U.S. First Ladies:
Planting an organic garden and an exercise initiative called “Let’s Move!” were among the causes championed by this First Lady who left the White House in 2017.
This woman was the U.S. Delegate to the United Nations between 1945 and 1952, and wrote a newspaper column titled My Day beginning in the1930s.
Due to her policy banning White House alcohol at the start of his 1877 term, many called this president’s wife “Lemonade Lucy.”
Michelle (LaVaughn Robinson) Obama
(Anna) Eleanor Roosevelt (prompt on “Roosevelt”)
Rutherford B(irchard) Hayes
In May 2017 this man defeated Marine Le Pen in a second round election. For 10 points each—
Name this French president.
Emmanuel Macron founded this political party whose initials match his name. The party’s name can be translated as "Forward!"
Macron was formerly in this party that includes François Hollande among its members. It represents a political theory that advocates more government control over the economy than capitalism.
Emmanuel Macron
En Marche! (accept Association pour le renouvellement de la vie politique or Association for the Renewal of Political Life)
Socialist Party or Parti socialiste (accept socialism)
This man died in November 2016 at the age of 90. For 10 points each—
Name this man who organized the 26th of July Movement that ultimately overthrew the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista.
Fidel's brother Raúl Castro is the current president of what Caribbean nation whose capital is Havana?
Another Cuban Revolutionary participant was this Argentine who was later executed in Bolivia. He is shown in the iconic Alberto Korda photograph Guerrillero Heroico [guh-rill-AIR-oh hair-OH-ih-co].
Fidel Castro
Republic of Cuba or República de Cuba
(Ernesto) Che Guevara
For 10 points each—name these historical regions of France:
Among Louis X's ["the tenths"] titles was the count of this area whose cities include Troyes and Épernay [AY-pah-MAY]. A sparkling, carbonated wine is named for this region.
This region of west-central France was ruled by the 11th century Duke William X ["the tenth"], who passed the Duchy to his daughter Eleanor.
This region of north central France is named for people descended from medieval raiders and pirates. D-Day saw the landing of troops here.
Champagne
Aquitaine
Normandy [whose people "Normans" is derived from "Norsemen"]
For 10 points each—give these terms in the U.S. Constitution:
Article 1, Section 2 assigns the House this power to charge officials with a crime. The Senate then tries the individual to determine whether he or she is removed from power.
Article 3, Section 3 defines this crime as “levying War against [the United States], or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort.”
The election of Donald Trump has brought renewed interest in these gifts or compensations mentioned in Article 1, Section 9. Leaders may not accept presents, offices, titles, or these from foreign entities without Congress’s consent, and the term is more broad than a bribe.
impeachment
treason
emoluments
These people believed Hernan Cortes to be a reincarnation of Quetzalcoatl. For 10 points each:
Name this Mesoamerican civilization that was ruled by Montezuma II. They fought the Flower Wars with neighboring city-states to obtain human sacrifices.
The Aztec capital was at this city, which has its ruins in current-day Mexico City. It contained the Templo Mayor, which was dedicated to Huitzilopochtli and Tlaloc.
The fall of the Aztec Empire came after this event, where Cortes’ army sacked Tenochtitlan following the death of Montezuma II.
Aztec(s)
Tenochtitlan
La Noche Triste [accept Night of Sorrows]
The Sharpeville Massacre and the Soweto Riots occurred in protest of this policy. For 10 points each:
Name this policy of forced segregation in South Africa. The “Pass Laws” created along with it restricted the movement of various indigenous peoples of South Africa.
Apartheid originally established two classes of people based on whether they spoke English or this language. This language was spoken by the Boers who had first settled South Africa.
This last Boer president of South Africa ended Apartheid after the resignation of his predecessor P.W. Botha. He shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela.
Apartheid
Afrikaans
Frederik Willem de Klerk
This governmental agency manages superfund sites. For 10 points each:
Name this government agency that manages the habitat and well-being of the USA’s citizens. The current director of this agency is Scott Pruitt.
The EPA helped clean up this superfund site near Niagara Falls. They found that the toxic waste caused an increase in white blood cell count and leukemia in affected citizens.
This book, written by Fish and Wildlife Services employee Rachel Carson, exposed the harmful effects of DDT and probably inspired the creation of the EPA.
Environmental Protection Agency
Love Canal
Silent Spring
Lord Elphinstone’s army was massacred by Wazir Khan during a retreat from this country’s capital. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the Durrani family ruled from a palace in Kabul. The CIA supported the Mujahideen during a Soviet invasion of this country in 1979.
These two countries vied for control over Afghanistan in the Great Game. One of these two countries accidentally destroyed the other’s fishing fleet in the Dogger Bank incident.
This first Mughal emperor lived in Kabul before he defeated Ibrahim Lodi at the First Battle of Panipat. His grandson was Akbar.
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Russia and Great Britain [accept United Kingdom or England in place of Britain]
Babur [accept Ẓahīr-ud-Dīn Muhammad]
Violent anti-Sikh riots broke out in India in 1984. For 10 points each:
This operation targeted Sikh secessionists in the Golden Temple. The Indian army has been accused of stealing religious relics during its execution.
Operation Blue Star was ordered by this female prime minister of India. She is the daughter of Nehru and shares a last name with other another famous Indian leader.
While Indira Gandhi was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards, her son Rajiv died at the hand of a group known as the Tamil [this animal]. This animal is the national animal of India.
Operation Blue Star
Indira Gandhi [prompt on “Gandhi”]
Tigers
Senator Abraham Ribicoff accused this city’s police of “Gestapo tactics.” For 10 points each:
Riots broke out in 1968 at the Democratic National Convention in this city, where Mayor Richard Daley was criticized for his police’s use of excessive force on anti-Vietnam War protestors.
Protesters were especially upset that this Vice President was nominated in lieu of a fellow Minnesotan, the more anti-war Eugene McCarthy, given that this man didn’t compete in the primaries.
In protest of the Democratic Party, the Youth International Party nominated this type of animal for President; the Chicago Seven’s arrest interrupted their planned speech for this animal’s candidacy.
Chicago
Hubert H. Humphrey
Pig [accept Pigasus]
This meeting declared Arianism a heresy. For 10 points each:
Name this ecumenical council that took place in 325 A.D. It set the date for Easter and led to the creation of its namesake “creed,” which states that Jesus himself was God.
The First Council of Nicea was headed by this Roman Emperor. This emperor legalized Christianity in his domain with the Edict of Milan.
This other ecumenical council, held in 431 A.D., reaffirmed the Nicene Creed and declared Nestorianism a heresy.
First Council of Nicea
Constantine I [accept Constantine the Great; prompt on “Constantine”]
Council of Ephesus
One participant in this event failed to commit suicide when his cyanide pill didn’t work. For 10 points each:
Name this event during which Serbian nationalists tried to assassinate an Austro-Hungarian leader during his visit to Sarajevo.
After several failed attempts to assassinate Franz Ferdinand, this nineteen year old eventually shot both Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie.
The Serbian nationalists who assassinated the Archduke were all members of this terrorist organization. Their leader, Apis, organized the coup against King Alexander and Queen Draga of Yugoslavia.
Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand [accept synonyms for “assassination”]
Gavrilo Princip
Black Hand [accept Unification of Death]
This gunpowder empire built one of the greatest cannons of all time. For 10 points each:
Name this empire that ruled modern-day Turkey until its dissolution after World War I. This empire was headed by sultans who ensured a continuous line of succession through the royal harem.
The Ottomans fought this battle under the command of Murad I against the Serbs under Lazar. While both armies were wiped out, it led to a scarcity of Serbian troops, giving way to Serbian-Ottoman vassalage.
Another of the commanders at Kosovo was Beyezeid, who was described by this word. The word Blitzkrieg translates to war described by this word.
Ottoman Empire
Battle of Kosovo
Lightning
This politician garnered six percent of the popular vote in the Election of 1912 while running on a third-party ticket. For 10 points each:
Name this presidential candidate who had earlier led the Pullman Strike in 1894.
The election of 1912 was won by this Democrat, who defeated Taft to win the presidency. This president created the Federal Reserve and signed the Clayton Antitrust Act.
Taft’s loss in the Election of 1912 was blamed on this party taking away votes from the Republicans. This party ran Theodore Roosevelt in that election.
Eugene Victor Debs
Woodrow Wilson
Progressive Party [accept Bull Moose Party]
This man discussed wars launched by Democratic presidents in a vice-presidential debate with Walter Mondale. For 10 points each:
Name this Kansas Republican and World War II veteran. He would later serve as Senate Majority Leader and suffer defeat at the hands of Bill Clinton in the 1996 election.
Dole was the Vice-Presidential nominee in this year, America’s bicentennial. He shared the GOP ticket with Gerald Ford that faced off against the eventual winner, Jimmy Carter.
Dole’s wife, Elizabeth, would later serve as Senator from this southern state. She served alongside future Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee John Edwards and succeeded the controversial Jesse Helms.
Robert “Bob” Dole
1976 [prompt on “76”]
North Carolina
The “Cornhusker kickback” was proposed to ensure Ben Nelson’s vote for this law. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial 2010 law. Commonly named for the forty-fourth president, it included the individual and employer mandates and has been tricky for Republicans to repeal and replace in 2017.
The aforementioned “kickback” would have covered the cost of expanding this program in Nebraska. This program was implemented as part of the “Great Society” in 1965 to cover low-income Americans.
An obstacle to the repeal and replace of Obamacare has been resistance from this group. This group of very conservative and libertarian lawmakers, including Jim Jordan, complained that initial plans amounted to “Obamacare-lite.”
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act [accept Obamacare]
Medicaid
House Freedom Caucus
Converting to Shia Islam under the rule of Humayun, the Mughal Empire may have been the greatest Shia state of all time. For 10 points each:
Name this “great” Mughal emperor who reigned over half a century of peace, fostered by his commitment to religious tolerance and respect for the priestly Brahmin class by creating the syncretic religion of Din-i-Ilahi.
A perpetual thorn in the side of Mughal expansion were these Hindu kingdoms that dominated northern India. Akbar personally organized the marriage of seventeen princes to subdue them.
Interestingly, most Rajput clans seem to not follow this practice of not eating animals that is common to India for religious reasons. Many westerners also do this for ethical reasons.
Abu'l-Fath Jalal-ud-din Muhammad Akbar
Rajputs
Vegetarianism
This man ordered the construction of the University of Tartu in present-day Estonia. For 10 points each:
Name this “Lion of the North” who ruled Sweden during the early 1600’s. Axel Oxenstierna assisted this man during many of his military campaigns.
Gustavus Adolphus fought alongside the Protestants during this conflict. This conflict was sparked when two Catholic regents were thrown out of a window in the Second Defenestration of Prague.
Gustavus Adolphus died while leading a cavalry charge during this battle. After his death, Bernard of Saxe-Weimar took over and won the battle for the Protestants.
Gustavus Adolphus the Great [accept Gustav II Adolf; prompt on partial answer]
Thirty Years’ War
Battle of Lutzen
French missionary Francois Ponchaud documented this country’s regime in his book <em>[This Country]: Year Zero</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose King Norodom Sihanouk established the GRUNK government in exile after he was deposed by the Khmer Rouge.
This man led the Khmer Rouge until 1981. He was assisted by the Santebal secret police, and he established “killing fields” to dispatch of non-ethnic and non-secular Cambodians.
Pol Pot ordered the sinking of one of this country’s ships in the Mayaguez Incident. This country also led a bombing campaign known as Operation Rolling Thunder in one of Cambodia’s neighbors.
Cambodia
Pol Pot [accept Saloth Sar]
United States of America [accept America or United States]
For 10 points each, answer some questions on American slave rebellions:
This 1831 slave rebellion took place in Southampton, Virginia. It led to the most Caucasian casualties of any slave rebellion, and its leader claimed to have been inspired by a solar eclipse.
African-American slaves on this Spanish ship led a mutiny against its crew. After the slaves were tried for their crimes on this ship, they were sent back to their native countries.
The leader of this rebellion had earlier won his freedom by winning the lottery. The rebels planned to destroy Charleston, but the plans of this rebellion were divulged by Joe LaRoche and George Wilson.
Nat Turner’s Rebellion
La Amistad
Denmark Vesey’s Revolt
Just decades after the Message of Muhammad, the Caliphate defeated two of the greatest empires in the world. For 10 points each:
Name this Persian Empire that was decisively beaten at the Battle of the Chains, al-Qadisiyah, and Nahavand. This dynasty succeeded the Parthians, although the exact circumstances are still unclear.
This father-in-law of Muhammad was the first caliph appointed to lead the Muslim community after his death. He fought the Ridda Wars to suppress the rise of regional leaders who claimed prophethood.
The early Muslims were overwhelmingly of this ethnicity, namesake of the peninsula from whence they came. An approximate meaning derived from regional cognates is something like nomad or passerby.
Sassanid Empire [accept word forms like Sassanian]
Abu Bakr [prompt on partial answer]
Arabs
This man was crowned King of the Romans, a title Napoleon would take 1000 years later. For 10 points each:
Name this Holy Roman Emperor who was dubbed “great.” He founded the Carolingian dynasty and was crowned emperor of the Romans on Christmas Day in 800.
Charlemagne’s pious successor, the last ruler of a unified Frankish realm, was given this name meaning “famous warrior.” In turn, one of that ruler’s sons dubbed “the German” also had this name.
This treaty divided up Louis’ territory amongst his sons, Lothair, Charles the Bald, and Louis the German.
Charlemagne
Louis
Treaty of Verdun
Leo X and Clement VII were two popes from this family. For 10 points each:
Name this wealthy banking family, whose members Cosimo and Lorenzo the Magnificent patronized the art of Michelangelo and Botticelli.
The Medicis ruled this city. The Ciompi Revolt took place in this city over heavy taxes that non-guild citizens were required to pay.
Along with Pope Sixtus IV, members of this rival family of the Medicis assassinated Giuliano but not Lorenzo in a failed namesake “conspiracy.” This family’s founder, Pazzo di Ranieri, recovered artifacts from the Church of the Holy Sepulchre during the 1099 Siege of Jerusalem.
Medici
Florence
Pazzi
Congressman John Conyers shouted to residents to return to their homes in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this Michigan city, also known as “Motown” for its traditional spot as the center of the auto industry. Its 2013 bankruptcy filing is the largest municipal one in history.
Many attributed the ‘white flight’ from Detroit to one of these events. Another one happened in Newark during the “Long Hot Summer,” a year before similar events in Baltimore, Chicago, and Washington, DC.
This street in Detroit traditionally served as the dividing line between white and black neighborhoods and has been featured prominently in rap music from the city.
Detroit
1967 Race Riot [accept 12th Street Riot; accept descriptions of riots in 1967; do NOT accept or prompt on anything mentioning 1968 or the MLK assassination]
8 Mile Road
For 10 points each, answer some question about “Hellenistic” weaponry.
The Byzantines often used this weapon to great effect against Arab ships. This weapon could be fired from a cheirosiphon, and many historians believed it was made using naphtha.
Citizen-soldiers of Greek city names were known by this name. They often carried a spear known as a doru and a shield known as an aspis.
Hoplites often arranged themselves in this formation of interlocking rows of shields and spears. This formation was used to great effect at the Battle of Marathon.
Greek Fire [prompt on “fire” or “water fire” or equivalents]
Hoplites
Phalanx
Intense debate has surrounded whether or not a midget submarine penetrated American defenses during this event. For 10 points each:
Name this December 7, 1941 air raid on a major U.S. naval base on Oahu, Hawai’i that led to a declaration of war against Japan.
Today, this Pennsylvania-class battleship remains as a memorial to the attack. She sunk in flames after a bomb detonated her powder magazines, killing more than three quarters of her crew.
Of the eight battleships damaged at Pearl Harbor, this Nevada-class ship was the only one to capsize. Several of her sailors were trapped in the hull of this ship after the battle and rescued by an effort spearheaded by Julio DeCastro.
Attack on Pearl Harbor [accept equivalents like “bombing Pearl Harbor”]
USS Arizona (BB-39)
USS Oklahoma (BB-37)
Not all rulers of China have always been Han Chinese. For 10 points each:
The Yuan dynasty arose after the defeat of the Song at the hands of these nomadic warriors who built the largest contiguous empire ever under the leadership of Genghis Khan.
This Manchu-led dynasty would be the last in China’s four thousand year history following the 1911 Xinhai (CHIN-HAI) revolution. The child-emperor Puyi, of this dynasty, was famously “the last emperor” of China.
This less-known dynasty of Khitan nomads, situated in northern China, coexisted with the southern Song before the advent of the Mongols. The Song actually cooperated with the Mongols to defeat them.
Mongols
Qing (CHING)
Liao
This man was criticized for an apparent religious test against Russell Vought. For 10 points each:
Name this Vermont Independent Senator and self-styled “democratic socialist.” His 2016 bid for the Democratic nomination ended in defeat to Hillary Clinton.
The use of these people in picking the Democratic nominee was criticized by Sanders for much of the primaries. Comprised of elected officials and party leaders, these people are not bound by any results.
Sanders previously served as mayor of this Vermont city. His wife, Jane, has been investigated for fraud in connection with her time as president of a college named for this city.
Bernard “Bernie” Sanders [prompt on “Bernie”]
Superdelegates [Accept Unpledged delegates]
Burlington
During this conflict, Royal Marines had to “yomp” from San Carlos to Mount Tumbledown after their helicopters were destroyed aboard the <em>Atlantic Conveyor</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1982 conflict over a group of namesake South Atlantic islands, in which a British task force travelled thousands of miles to reclaim territory.
That conflict pitted the U.K. against this South American country. This country’s government, led from Buenos Aires by Leopoldo Galtieri, collapsed after the war.
The Falklands War was launched by this type of authoritarian government in Argentina, which also carried out the Dirty War. The most famous government of this type ruled Augusto Pinochet’s Chile. These governments often sprung out of coups [cooz] in twentieth century Latin America.
Falklands War [accept Guerra de las Malvinas; accept any description of a conflict mentioning the islands by name]
Argentina
Military Junta [hoon-tuh] [accept Military Dictatorship]
This event took place in the Jornado del Muerto desert near the McDonald Ranch House. For 10 points each:
Name this event, which saw the detonation of the first ever atomic bomb at the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico.
The Trinity Test was authorized by this project headed by the Department of Energy. Much of their work took place in Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
The first military deployment of the atomic bomb occurred when the Enola Gay dropped the “Little Boy” over this city. A memorial dedicated to its victims was visited by Obama in May of 2016.
Trinity Test
Manhattan Project [accept Development of Substitute Materials]
Hiroshima
This empire gifted an elephant named Abul-Abbas and a water clock to Charlemagne. For 10 points each:
Name this caliphate, whose ruler Harun al-Rashid established the House of Wisdom in its capital of Baghdad. This caliphate defeated the preceding Umayyads at the Battle of the Zab River.
A man with this surname rolled up the Abbasid caliph into a carpet and trampled over him during the 1258 Siege of Baghdad. Another man with this title destroyed the Khwarezmian Empire after they killed two of his ambassadors.
The Zanj Rebellion during the Abbasid Caliphate was one of the bloodiest rebellions ever that was led by these people. Mamluks were soldiers who previously had this status.
Abbasid Caliphate
Khan [accept Hulagu Khan or Genghis Khan]
Slaves
This country fought the Cod Wars with the United Kingdom. For 10 points each:
Name this deceptively-named island country discovered by the Vikings in search of arable land. Its capital at Reykjavik has been unchanged since the medieval era.
The Icelandic parliament, the oldest in the world, is known by this name. Public addresses here are given at the law rock.
As a territory of Norway, Iceland was part of this anti-Hanseatic union that joined Denmark, Sweden, and Norway under a single monarch. This union broke apart when Sweden declared independence under Gustav Vasa.
Iceland
Althing
Kalmar Union
This man was the only Admiral of the Navy. For 10 points each:
Name this general who exclaimed “You may fire when ready, Gridley” at the Battle of Manila Bay.
The Battle of Manila Bay was fought in this war that included engagements fought by Teddy Roosevelt's Rough Riders.
The Spanish-American War was precipitated by the explosion of this ship in Havana Harbor.
George Dewey
Spanish-American War
USS Maine
This man served only ten days as Communications Director, the shortest tenure in history; however, he coined some memorable quotes while there. For 10 points each:
Name this July 21st, 2017 appointee to the Trump administration, an investment banker whose entry into the White House caused the resignation of Sean Spicer.
Scaramucci was ousted by this inbound Chief of Staff, the replacement of Reince Priebus, a retired Marine Corps general and former Secretary of Homeland Security for the Trump Administration.
Scaramucci’s firing was directly influenced by an interview with this magazine, in which, among other things, he cast aspersions on Reince Priebus's sanity and threatened to fire the entire communications department.
Anthony Scaramucci [prompt on “The Mooch” or “The Front Stabber”]
General John Kelly
The New Yorker
Trent Lott coined the term “nuclear option” for a parliamentary move that severely curbed these actions. For 10 points each:
Name this action, in which a U.S. Senator talks for extended periods of time to stall debate. In 2009, the fact that Democrats held sixty seats made it easy for them to defeat these actions with cloture motions.
This Democrat and one time KKK member achieved fame for his fourteen hour speech filibustering the Civil Rights Act of 1964. He served in the Senate for fifty-one years, from 1959 until 2010, making him the longest tenured member of the U.S. Senate in history.
Byrd hailed from this state, the only one entirely in the Appalachians. His funeral was held at the state capitol in Charleston and featured a speech by this state’s then-Governor, Joe Manchin, and a performance of its state anthem, “Take Me Home, Country Roads.”
Filibuster
Robert C. Byrd
West Virginia
The Black Death was a gruesome epidemic that killed almost two-fifths of Europe’s population. Answer some questions about it, for 10 points each.
Since no one back then could determine a single cause of the plague, many often resorted to carrying out pogroms against these people, as allowing them to “hoard the world’s money” was considered a sin in and of itself.
While the plague was going on, Edward III decided to claim the French throne, sparking this conflict. Philip VI’s fleet was defeated at the Bay of Sluys during this conflict.
Since the wages of peasants were rising extremely fast, France instituted one of these things known as the taille. An unpopular version of this was passed by Richard II and sparked Wat Tyler’s Rebellion.
Jews
Hundred Years’ War
Tax [accept specific answers like poll tax]
Christianity is one of the five religious doctrines officially recognized in the People’s Republic of China. For 10 points each:
Despite having a Patriotic Catholics Association, this highest ranking member of the Catholic Church is prohibited from entering China for fear that he might spread dangerous western ideas. The most recent holder of this position is the first from Latin America.
Catholicism was popularized in China by men like Matteo Ricci as part of the missionary activities of this religious congregation founded by St. Ignatius of Loyola.
Catholic missions to China began as early as the Yuan dynasty, but little did they know that this heretical Christian tradition had been well-established since the Tang era.
Pope
Jesuits
Nestorianism
For 10 points each, answer some questions about uprisings against communism in Eastern Europe.
Alexander Dubcek espoused “socialism with a human face” during this period of liberalization in Czechoslovakia. Gustav Husak led a so-called “Normalization” period after it.
The first shots of this country’s rebellion against the Soviets began when protesters led by Imre Nagy crowded around a statue of Jozsef Bem in Budapest.
This group engaged in the Round Table Talks with Czeslaw Kiszczak. This labor union was founded by former electrician Lech Walesa in the Gdansk shipyards.
Prague Spring
Hungary
Independent Self-governing Labour Union Solidarity [accept Solidarnosc]
A coat of gold, a coat of red, a lion still has claws. For 10 points each:
Name this English royal house that suffered brutal infighting during the Wars of the Roses. Their coat of arms featured three golden lions on a red backdrop.
The dynasty might not have reached such an unceremonious end had this exceptional son of Edward III not died a year before his father. His son Richard II helped destabilize the country for good.
The first challenge to Richard II’s rule was a rebellion of these people led by Wat Tyler. They are distinguished from serfs because they own their own land, an unexpected benefit of the Black Death.
Plantagenets
Edward the Black Prince [or Edward of Woodstock; prompt on “Edward”; prompt on “the Black Prince”]
Peasants
A group opposed to this agreement was led by Subcommander Marcos, who declared war on the federal government in the state of Chiapas. For 10 points each:
Name this trilateral trade deal between Canada, the U.S., and Mexico, which went into effect in 1994. Donald Trump referred to this agreement as “the worst trade deal” in history at a 2016 debate.
While NAFTA was the first multilateral free trade agreement the U.S. joined, a bilateral agreement with this country was ratified ten years earlier. Negotiations were conducted while this country’s prime minister was Shimon Peres [shee-MOHN PEH-rehs].
The World Trade Organization was created after a “round” of negotiations took place named for this South American country. Those negotiations took place in the resort town of Punta del Este and featured a speech by this country’s first democratic president, Julio Sanguinetti [sahn-ghee-NEH-tee].
North American Free Trade Agreement
State of Israel
Oriental Republic of Uruguay
Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation immediately after this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this battle which Robert E. Lee lost during his Maryland Campaign. The majority of the fighting during this battle occurred in the Dunker Church cornfield and near “Bloody Lane.”
The Union forces at Antietam were commanded by this general. Because of his failure in pursuing Lee, he was fired by Lincoln, whom he ran against in the Election of 1864.
Before the battle, McClellan’s troops found Lee’s battle plans wrapped around three of these things. The CIA attempted to kill Fidel Castro with one of these that exploded.
Battle of Antietam [accept Battle of Sharpsburg]
George Brinton McClellan
Cigars
This dynasty’s Zhengtong Emperor was kidnapped during the Tumu Crisis. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty which sponsored the voyages of Zheng He. Matteo Ricci was a Jesuit missionary who worked during this dynasty’s reign, and they were known for their intricate porcelain designs.
The aforementioned voyages of Zheng He were sponsored by this emperor. This emperor’s minister Xie Jin compiled a list of all of the known Chinese texts.
The Yongle Emperor ordered the construction of this palace complex in Beijing. It is composed of three main halls: the Halls of Supreme Harmony, Central Harmony, and Preserving Harmony.
Ming Dynasty
Yongle Emperor [accept Zhu Di]
Forbidden City
Prior to this battle, Ursuline Nuns prayed to Our Lady of Prompt Succor. For 10 points each:
Name this battle, the last of the War of 1812. A resounding American victory, this battle was ironically fought weeks after the Treaty of Ghent had been signed and prevented British seizure of a crucial southern port.
This future president commanded U.S. forces at New Orleans. After New Orleans, he fought in the First Seminole War, one of the many times this man came into conflict with Native Americans.
Jackson’s forces were aided by this Frenchman at the Battle of New Orleans. This Baratarian Pirate agreed to defend the Crescent City in exchange for pardons for him and his men.
Battle of New Orleans
Andrew Jackson
Jean Lafitte
Before there was the Syrian Civil War, there was war in Lebanon. For 10 points each:
Name this militant group sponsored by Iran that repulsed American and Israeli forces during the Lebanese Civil War under the leadership of Naim Qassem. Their name literally means The Party of God.
The Lebanese Civil War was concluded by this treaty that mandated fifty-fifty representation of Christians and Muslims in Parliament and allowed Hezbollah to keep its arsenal of weapons.
Hezbollah also operates al-Manar, which is one of these organizations that air news programming and talk shows. Qatar’s well-known Al-Jazeera is another one of these organizations
Hezbollah
Taif Agreement
Television station [accept equivalents like News broadcaster]
Sea Beggars were used by one side during this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict which saw William the Silent and Maurice of Nassau fight the Duke of Alba for control of a certain country.
At the time, the Netherlands was a territory of this country. Philip II used this country’s namesake Armada in the Eighty Years’ War.
William the Silent was from this royal Dutch family. Another member of this family overthrew James II in the Glorious Revolution along with Mary.
Eighty Years’ War [accept Dutch War of Independence]
Spain
House of Orange
Answer some questions about Winston Churchill’s speech “This was their finest hour.” For 10 points each:
Churchill mentioned that General Weygand had declared that the battle is over in this country. The Maginot Line failed to protect this home country of Weygand from the Nazis.
Churchill alluded to “This was their finest hour” in a speech given after this battle. This battle saw the failure of Operation Sea Lion and during it, the Blitz destroyed London.
In a previous speech, after the fall of France, Churchill said that he has nothing to offer to Great Britain but “blood, toil, tears, and [this].”
France
Battle of Britain
Sweat
For 10 points each, answer some questions about French attempts to colonize Africa:
This island’s queen Ranavalona III was stripped of all authority after the French annexed it in 1896. The Nazis suggested this island as a deportation site for Jews before the Holocaust was implemented.
This country was annexed by the French after two of their consuls were disrespected by a local dey. This country later gained its independence when Charles de Gaulle signed the Evian Accords.
This country was the site of a border dispute between the French and British in its city of Fashoda. Lord Kitchener defeated the Mahdist forces at the Battle of Omdurman in this country.
Madagascar
Algeria
Sudan
James Renshaw Cox led a group of twenty-five thousand armed protesters against the government during this period. For 10 points each:
Name this worst economic downturn in American history. This period began with the Stock Market Crash of 1929.
To counteract the problems of the Great Depression, FDR passed this series of legislation that employed several people as part of the Works Progress Administration and the Public Works Administration. It also created the FDIC.
This New Deal agency, which was spearheaded by George W. Norris, generated energy for the namesake region. It began as an effort to build a power plant at Muscle Shoals.
Great Depression
New Deal
Tennessee Valley Authority
The Cradle of Civilization lies in the Middle East. For 10 points each:
Name this geographical region, Greek for “between the two rivers.” This region is traditionally considered to be the home of the first civilizations like Sumeria. The two rivers referenced are the Tigris and the Euphrates.
This extraordinarily brutal civilization with capitals at Assur and Nineveh conquered Babylon. Famous kings of it include Ashurbanipal, Sennacherib, and Tiglath-Pileser, who flayed their enemies alive.
This Bronze-Age Anatolian civilization was halted by Assyrian armies in their advance on Mesopotamia. Nonetheless, their chariots conquered modern-day Syria.
Mesopotamia
Assyria [accept Assyrian empire]
Hittites
“Let those who have been accustomed unjustly to wage private warfare against the faithful now go against the infidels and end with victory this war which should have been begun long ago.” For 10 points each:
Name these series of religious conflicts that began with the aforementioned speech by Pope Urban II at the Council of Clermont in 1095. The first one of these was probably the most successful.
There were many famous crusaders, but none were as famous as this Ayyubid ruler who opposed them. His genius led to the crushing defeat of the second crusade at the horns of Hattin.
One of the last crusades launched was this inconclusive expedition led by Louis XI that saw the destruction of the entire French army at Fariskur despite an earlier victory at Damietta.
Crusades
Saladin [or Salah ad-Din]
Seventh Crusade
This nation declared independence under the leadership of Kwame Nkrumah. For 10 points each:
Name this west-African country formerly known as the Gold Coast. A member of the Non-Aligned Movement, it followed its own path of socialist development.
Ghana was home to this famously resilient nation-state that fought several wars with the British over their sacred golden stool. It technically still exists as a constitutionally protected proto-state.
Despite being centered in the Gold Coast, the Asante state was also famous for the trade of this material taken from the tusks of African elephants.
Ghana
Asante Kingdom
Ivory
The crew of the <em>Aurora</em> mutinied during this event and fired a shot at the Winter Palace to signal its beginning. For 10 points each:
Name this revolution which saw the Bolsheviks overthrow Alexander Kerensky’s provisional government. John Reed documented this event in his book Ten Days that Shook the World.
This head of the Bolsheviks led the October Revolution. He sent his subordinates to sign the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany, and he authored the April Theses while in exile in Switzerland. He was succeeded by Joseph Stalin.
Lenin introduced this economic plan that introduced “state capitalism” to the Soviet Union. It abolished forced grain requisition but it also led to the Scissors Crisis when a huge gap between industrial and agricultural prices formed.
October Revolution [accept Great October Socialist Revolution or Red October]
Vladimir Ilyich Lenin
New Economic Policy
When this party’s most notable member resigned in 2016, its only MP, Douglas Carswell, tweeted a smiling emoji. For 10 points each:
Name this Eurosceptic British party, symbolized by the Pound Sterling, led until 2016 by Nigel Farage. Though as of 2017 it holds no seats in the House of Commons, this party holds the most seats in the European Parliament of any British party.
This action was the primary goal of UKIP and was accomplished after an upset victory in a 2016 referendum. Teresa May suffered a blow to her plans for a “hard” version of this action following the June 2017 election.
In March 2017, Teresa May triggered Article 50 of a treaty named for this city. That treaty, named for this Iberian city, was ratified in 2007 to build on treaties of Amsterdam and Nice, and it outlined the procedure for leaving the E.U.
United Kingdom Independence Party
Brexit [accept descriptions of Britain leaving the European Union]
Lisbon
For 10 points, answer some questions regarding tariffs in American history.
When this man was a U.S. Senator, he drafted a namesake tariff that raised import duties to almost fifty percent. While running for president, this man defeated a candidate who ran on the “free silver” platform, William Jennings Bryan.
This tariff passed during Herbert Hoover’s administration raised import duties to the second-highest level ever in American history. It is considered to be a main cause of the Great Depression.
After the United States joined this international economic organization, it adopted a policy of low tariffs. This organization was created by the Marrakech Agreement, and its predecessor was the GATT.
William McKinley
Hawley-Smoot Tariff [accept Smoot-Hawley Tariff]
World Trade Organization
In 1996, this country’s military shot down aircrafts conducting anti-government broadcasts sponsored by Brothers to the Rescue. For 10 points each:
Name this communist Caribbean state led by the Castro brothers since 1959. Numerous citizens have risked their lives to sail ninety miles north to Florida from this nation.
One famous incident involving Cuban refugees surrounded this child. In 2000, he was, against the wishes of his mother’s Miami relatives, sent back to his father in Cuba.
The first female holder of this position, Janet Reno, ordered that Gonzalez be sent back to Cuba. Earlier in Reno’s time in this position, controversy surrounded the ATF and FBI, which are overseen by it.
Cuba
Elián González
Attorney General
This man gave the title “Empress of India” to Queen Victoria. For 10 points each:
Name this conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He had a rivalry with William Gladstone, and he is the only Jewish Prime Minister in history.
Disraeli opposed the reintroduction of these laws, which placed tariffs on the namesake crop. Their repeal was prompted by famines in Ireland.
Before becoming Prime Minister, Disraeli served under Lord Derby in this position, which is the highest within the Treasury of the United Kingdom.
Benjamin Disraeli
Corn Laws
Chancellor of the Exchequer [prompt on partial answer]
The Roman war machine was a marvel of the ancient world. For 10 points each:
Roman infantry were typically organized into these basic military units of five thousand men made up of fifty cohorts of one hundred. These units were predominantly political in structure, even after the Marian reforms.
When a Roman legion forms up for battle, it typically organizes into this many lines with newest and worst-equipped units in the front and seasoned veterans in the back.
The Roman legions could create wall-like formations by virtue of the scutum, which is this type of handheld equipment used to deflect blows and projectiles.
Legion
Three
Shield
This nation’s troops were committed to Iraq by John Howard’s government. For 10 points each:
Name this former British penal colony with capital at Canberra. Prior to Iraq and Afghanistan, its most notable post-World War II overseas troop deployment came as peacekeepers in East Timor.
Australian and New Zealander forces were joined in this unit. This unit notably fought in World War I and names the national day of remembrance in those two countries, celebrated on April 25.
The ANZAC’s most well-known exploit was during this campaign. Named for a peninsula in Turkey, the Allied forces suffered a major defeat after Mustafa Kemal Atatürk repelled an amphibious assault during this campaign.
Commonwealth of Australia
ANZAC [accept Australia and New Zealand Army Corps]
Gallipoli Campaign [accept Dardanelles Campaign or Battle of Çanakkale]
Invading Canada never seems to go well for the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this first defeat of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War. This battle was named after the namesake-city of this French-speaking province.
The first major American casualty was this Major General of Irish descent, who led the attack of Quebec City with Benedict Arnold.
In preparation for the Canadian offensive, diplomatic overtures were made to this powerful Native American confederacy. Four out of the five nations composing them would later join the British.
Battle of Quebec
Richard Montgomery
Iroquois Confederacy [accept Haudenosaunee]
For 10 points each, answer some questions about historical objects.
This object was unearthed by Jean-Francois Bouchard in 1799 in Egypt. It contains text written in Greek, Demotic, and Hieroglyphics.
Several artifacts were unearthed from this king’s tomb by Howard Carter. This king, who was buried in KV62, was the son of Akhenaten.
Nadir Shah stole this object along with the Peacock Throne during his 1739 sack of Delhi. Today, it exists as part of the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom.
Rosetta Stone
Tutankhamun
Koh-i-Noor Diamond
The death of Feodor I triggered the start of this time period. For 10 points each:
Name this time period when Russia remained without a czar and suffered famines and incursions. Rulers during this time period include Boris Godunov.
The Time of Troubles was ended by the succession of this first Romanov czar to the throne.
During the Time of Troubles, pretenders who claimed to be the youngest sons of Ivan the Terrible in order to seize the throne were known by this name.
Time of Troubles
Michael I [accept Mikhail I; prompt on “Michael” or “Mikhail”]
False Dmitri(s)
This empire was ended in 1453 by the fall of Constantinople. For 10 points each:
Name this empire that considered itself the rightful heir to Rome. It is also commonly known as the Eastern Roman Empire.
This emperor with the epithet “the great” ruled the Byzantine Empire and built the Hagia Sophia. His namesake code was a revision of Roman law.
Justinian sent this general to conquer Ravenna from the Ostrogoths. He was called out of retirement to fight the Bulgars at the Battle of Melantias.
Byzantine Empire
Justinian I [accept Justinian the Great]
Belisarius
“Most people, in fact, will not take the trouble in finding out the truth, but are much more inclined to accept the first story they hear.” For 10 points each:
Name this Athenian historian of the Peloponnesian War whose definitive account rails against the anecdotal methodology of Herodotus. He would be exiled after being scapegoated for a military defeat.
This Athenian admiral who commanded the Sicilian Expedition advocated for an aggressive foreign policy. He too would flee Athens after being the victim of political persecution.
The Peloponnesian War was fought between Athens and this long-time rival city-state. Just half a century earlier, three hundred of its soldiers stood against Persia at Thermopylae.
Thucydides
Alcibiades
Sparta
For 10 points each, answer some questions about tensions in the South during the Civil Rights Movement.
This Alabama governor famously declared “Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever.” He also prevented two African-American students from entering the University of Alabama in the “Stand in the Schoolhouse Door.”
This city’s police commissioner, “Bull” Connor, used police dogs to attack Freedom Riders entering it. The KKK bombed 16th Street Baptist Church in this most populous city of Alabama, killing four girls.
This field secretary of the NAACP was assassinated by Byron De La Beckwith in 1963. He fought for the integration of the University of Mississippi.
George Corley Wallace Jr.
Birmingham
Medgar Wiley Evers
The Duke of Caxias laid siege to the fortress of Humaita during this war. For 10 points each:
Name this war, which saw Paraguay fighting for the province of Mato Grosso against a coalition of countries led by Bartolome Mitre, Pedro II, and Venancio Flores.
Paraguay was led by this dictator during the War of the Triple Alliance. He was killed at the Battle of Cerro Cora, and he ordered the killings of political officials and citizens in the San Fernando Massacres.
The largest department of Paraguay is named in honor of one of these people, who sided with it during negotiations to end the war. Another one of these people sent Richard Olney to mediate a border dispute between Venezuela and British Guiana.
War of the Triple Alliance [prompt on “Paraguayan War”]
Francisco Solano Lopez
President of the United States of America [prompt on “President”]
The traditional end of this military expedition is said to be the meeting of its leader with a king at Teano. For 10 points each:
Name this campaign, where Giuseppe Garibaldi’s Red Shirts conquered Calabria. Its success led to the annexation of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies into the Kingdom of Sardinia.
The Red Shirts and Giuseppe Garibaldi supported the unification of this modern-day country, where Victor Emmanuel II was crowned its first king in Rome.
Henri Dunant was inspired to found this organization after witnessing the carnage at the Battle of Solferino during the unification of Italy.
Expedition of the Thousand [or Spedizione dei Mille]
Italy [or the Kingdom of Italy; or Regno d’Italia]
International Red Cross [or the Red Cross; or the Red Crescent; or the International Movement of the Red Cross and Red Crescent] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This dictator declared himself “Lord of All the Beasts of the Earth and Fishes of the Seas,” in addition to claiming to be the “Last King of Scotland.” For 10 points each:
Name this man, who ruled as President of Uganda from 1971 to 1979 after leading a military coup.
As part of his coup, Idi Amin seized this major airport in Kampala. Israeli commandos raided this airport in 1976 as part of Operation Thunderbolt to free over 100 hostages.
While serving in the King’s African Rifles, Amin fought in the Mau Mau Rebellion, which occurred in this modern country. Many of this country’s Kikuyu people assisted the Mau Mau.
Idi Amin [or Idi Amin Dada Oumee]
Entebbe International Airport [or Operation Entebbe]
Kenya [or Jamhuri Ya Kenya; or the Republic of Kenya] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The Mongols catapulting corpses into Kaffa while besieging it may have helped to spread this disease. For 10 points each:
Name this pandemic, which resulted in the death of over one-third of Europe's population in the 14th century. It was spread by flea-carrying rats.
Fear of the Black Death led to an increase in popularity for the brotherhood of this movement. This movement involved people whipping themselves as a form of punishment.
Members of this religious minority were killed during the Black Plague after being accused of poisoning wells in Cologne and Strasbourg.
Black Death [or the Bubonic Plague; or the Black Plague]
Flagellants movement
Jews [or Jewish people] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
<em>NOTE TO MODERATOR: Do not reveal the alternate answers to the first part of the bonus unless a team answers with that, as it will reveal the answer to the second part. Thanks!</em> The Bayeux Tapestry opens with Edward the Confessor sending Harold Godwinson as an ambassador to this monarch. For 10 points each:
Name this king, who launched the Harrying of the North campaign after the death of Robert de Comines. The Bayeux Tapestry depicts this king’s victory at the Battle of Hastings.
Before invading England, William the Conqueror ruled this region. Edward the Confessor's mother, Emma, was a descendant of Rollo, the founder of the duchy of this region.
Before founding Normandy, Rollo led these people on raids of Paris. These people raided the monastery of Lindisfarne and served the Byzantine Empire as the Varangian Guard.
William the Conqueror [or William I; or William the Bastard; or William of Normandy; prompt on William]
Normandy [or Normandie]
Vikings [or Norsemen; or Northman] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed.JO&gt;
One leader with this surname claimed that Pakistanis would “eat grass,” but build a nuclear bomb, while another married Asif Ali Zardari and was assassinated in 2007. For 10 points each:
Give this shared surname of Zulfikar Ali, the founder of the Pakistan People’s Party, and his daughter Benazir, the first female head of state of a Muslim-majority country.
Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was deposed and eventually hanged after a military coup led by this general. This man made the “Islamization” of Pakistan a primary political goal.
Zia himself died under suspicious circumstances in one of these disasters, also the cause of death of UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold and Polish president Lech Kaczynski.
Bhutto [or Zulfikar Ali Bhutto; or Benazir Bhutto]
Muhammad Zia ul-Haq [or Muhammad Zia ul-Haq]
plane crash [or any answer that indicates a plane went down; prompt on assassinations] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer the following about conflicts the between the US and Native Americans. For 10 points each:
Andrew Jackson fought in a series of wars named for these people, which included the Battle of Wahoo Swamp and the Battle of Lake Okeechobee in Florida.
This tribe’s 1,170 mile fighting retreat ended when Chief Joseph of this tribe surrendered, and delivered his “I will fight no more forever” speech.
This massacre of Lakota by the U.S. Army began after the deaf Black Coyote refused to give up his rifle.
Seminoles
Nez Perce [or Nimi’ipuu]
Wounded Knee Massacre &lt;Jonathan Amlong&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
 The only law from this man's law code that survives today is his homicide law. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Greek legislator, whose name is now synonymous with an unforgiving law due to the harshness of his law code.
Draco promulgated the first constitution of this Greek city-state. Solon instituted his namesake reforms in this city-state, which practiced democracy.
This later chief magistrate of Athens changed the Council of 400 into the Council of 500. This man divided the demes, or natural divisions of Attica, into the 10 tribes of Athens.
Draco [or Dracon; or draconian laws]
Athens [or Athinai; or Athenai]
Cleisthenes [or Clisthenes] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Francois Darlan, an admiral of this government’s North Africa fleet, was assassinated by a supporter of the French pretender, the Count of Paris. For 10 points each:
Name this Nazi puppet regime, which ruled France during World War II. It was named for the spa town it was based from.
This French World War I hero of the Battle of Verdun served as the head of state for the Vichy government.
This man, who approved a scheme where one prisoner of war was repopulated in France for every three workers sent to Germany, served as the Vichy Head of Government from 1942-1944.
Vichy [“Vee-shee”] France
Philippe Pétain [“Pay-tan”] [or Henri-Philippe Petain]
Pierre Laval &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The Palmerston Letters of 1839 instructed the Elliots to set up a blockade of the Pearl River during the first of these wars. For 10 points each:
Name these conflicts, the first of which started after Lin Zexu [“Lynn Zee-shu”] raided the Thirteen Factories. A British goal during these wars was to control the smuggling of an addictive drug.
The First Opium War was ended by this treaty, which was the first of the unequal treaties.
The Treaty of Nanking ceded this island to the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom returned control of this city to China in 1997.
Opium Wars
Treaty of Nanking
Hong Kong [or Hsiang Kang; or Xiang Gang] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This country’s independence movement began after a performance of Auber’s <em>The Mute Girl of Portici</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose revolution William I of the Netherland’s Ten Days’ Campaign couldn’t suppress. This country is home to both Walloon and Flemish-supporting movements.
During the Italian independence movement, a clandestine slogan featuring this opera composer was used to express support for Victor Emmanuel II.
Citizens of this country gathered in the hundreds of thousands in what became known as “The Singing Revolution,” where they defiantly sang banned patriotic songs.
Belgium [or the Kingdom of Belgium; or Konigreich Belgien; or Koninkrijk Belgie; or Royaume de Belgique]
Giuseppe Verdi [or Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi; or Viva Verdi; or Viva Vittorio Emanuele Re D’Italia; or Viva Victor Emmanuel King of Italy]
Estonia [or Eesti Vabariik; or Republic of Estonia] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Name these Speakers of the House. For 10 points each:
This man is the only Speaker of the House to become President. This president sent Nicholas Trist to negotiate the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which ended the Mexican War.
This "Half-Breed" Republican Speaker's corruption in railroad charter deals led him to be called the "Continental liar from the state of Maine" in the 1884 presidential election.
This Speaker during the 1970s and 1980s coined the term “all politics is local.” Ronald Reagan said he was friends with this man after 6 PM.
James K. Polk [or James Knox Polk]
James G. Blaine [or James Gillespie Blaine]
Tip O'Neill [or Thomas Philip O’Neill, Jr.] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
James McLaughlin ordered this man’s arrest in 1890, after wrongly suspecting that he was a leader of the Ghost Dance movement. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, who participated in Buffalo Bill’s Wild West show. This ally of Crazy Horse had a vision of soldiers falling like grasshoppers before a certain battle.
Sitting Bull’s vision came just before his combined 8000 Lakotas and Cheyennes defeated five companies of US soldiers in this battle, otherwise known as “Custer’s Last Stand”
Fetterman’s Last Stand took place earlier in the Sioux Wars, and was ordered by this Oglala chief. His namesake war ended with the 1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie.
Sitting Bull [or Tatanka Iyotake]
Battle of Little Bighorn
Red Cloud [or Mahpiua Luta] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer the following about things named Barbarossa. For 10 points each:
This nation’s attempted invasion of the Soviet Union, which violated the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, was nicknamed Operation Barbarossa.
Operation Barbarossa was named after the nickname of this 12th-century Holy Roman Emperor, who was defeated by the Lombard League and drowned during the Third Crusade.
Andrea Doria, an admiral from this maritime rival city of Venice, led the Holy League when it was defeated by Hayreddin Barbarossa at the Battle of Preveza.
Germany [or Nazi Germany; or Deutschland; or Federal Republic of Germany; or Bundesrepublik Deutschland]
Frederick I [prompt on Frederick]
Genoa [or Genova; or Genua; or the Republic of Genoa; or Reppublica di Genova; or Repubrica de Zena] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
 Prior to a battle in this city, Captain James Cook charted the St. Lawrence River, allowing Admiral Charles Saunders to give naval support. For 10 points each:
Name this city, where the British commander and the Marquis de Montcalm were killed during the Battle of the Plains of Abraham.
This British General, the victor at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, was killed during the course of battle. He served as Henry Hawley’s aide-de-camp during the Jacobite Rebellion.
The Battle of the Plains of Abraham was a part of this war, the American theater of the Seven Years' War. During this war, George Washington lost Fort Necessity.
Quebec [or Quebec City]
James Wolfe
French and Indian War &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The day before this event, Barry Goldwater, Hugh Scott, and John Jacob Rhodes informed its central figure that he had no support in Congress. For 10 points each:
Name this 1974 event, which took effect on August 9th. This event was precipitated by the release of an incriminating conversation with H.R. Haldeman, the “smoking gun” tape.
This man became president following the resignation of Richard Nixon. This president pardoned Nixon, and granted amnesty to Vietnam War draft dodgers.
During Ford’s presidency, Cambodia seized this U.S. merchant ship. The 41 marines killed during the rescue operation of this ship are the last to appear on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
Resignation of Richard Nixon [or the Resignation of Richard Milhous Nixon; or equivalent answers, such as Nixon resigning the presidency; prompt on the end of Nixon’s second term; prompt on Nixon leaving the presidency; prompt on the Watergate Scandal; do NOT accept or prompt on the “Impeachment of Richard Nixon”]
Gerald Ford [or Gerald Rudolph Ford, Jr.; or Leslie Lynch King, Jr.]
SS Mayaguez [or the Mayaguez Incident] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer the following about the Prime Ministers of Queen Victoria. For 10 points each:
Queen Victoria didn’t favor this man’s Conservative Party, which was established in his Tamworth Manifesto. He founded the London Police Force and repealed the Corn Laws.
This Liberal rival of Benjamin Disraeli passed the Third Reform Act. He set up the secret ballot and was blamed for General “Chinese” Gordon’s death at Khartoum.
Joseph Chamberlain and Lord Harlington’s Liberal Unionists broke away from Gladstone over the question of Home Rule for this island country, which suffered an 1840s “potato famine.”
Sir Robert Peel
William Gladstone [or William Ewart Gladstone]
Ireland [or Eire; or Irish Free State; or the Irish Potato Famine] &lt;Audrey Bush&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
He was re-elected in 2017 for a third term with 99% of the vote. For 10 points each:
Name this former leader of a Tutsi rebel group, whose invading RPF force captured Kigali in 1994. He was accused of war crimes during a 1996 invasion of a neighboring country.
Kagame’s invasion helped to end a 1994 massacre in this country, where Kagame serves as President. That 1994 genocide in this country started after the death of Juvenal Habyarimana.
When it became apparent the RPF would prevail, an estimated two million members of this majority Rwandan ethnic group fled into Zaire. During the genocide, they killed many Tutsis.
Paul Kagame
Rwanda [or Ruanda; or Republic of Rwanda; or Republika y’u Rwanda; or Rwandan Genocide]
Hutus [or Bahutus; or Wahutus] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Senator Thomas Hart Benton of Missouri denounced this act, because Congress “broke down the sacred laws” of the past. For 10 points each:
Name this Stephen Douglas-authored act, which allowed for the decision of whether to legalize slavery to be settled by popular sovereignty in the two namesake Great Plains territories.
This Republican called the Kansas-Nebraska Act “in every respect a swindle” in a speech that compared Andrew Butler to Don Quixote. He was nearly caned to death by Preston Brooks.
Stephen Douglas engaged in a series of seven debates with this man, who declared that “a house divided against itself cannot stand.” This President gave the Gettysburg Address.
Kansas-Nebraska Act
Charles Sumner
Abraham Lincoln [or Lincoln-Douglas debates] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This man has faced protests since early 2014 due to his nation’s food shortages, urban violence and inflation. For 10 points each:
Name this resident of the Palacio de Miraflores.
Maduro succeeded Hugo Chavez as president of this South American nation.
This coordinator of Voluntad Popular was released from prison and placed under house arrest in early July. However, he was placed back in prison in early August.
Nicolás Maduro Moros
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or República Bolivariana de Venezuela]
Leopoldo Eduardo López Mendoza &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. DD&gt;
The namesakes of this crisis were the French diplomats Jean-Conrad Hottinguer, Pierre Bellamy, and Lucien Hauteval. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which Charles Pinckney, John Marshall, and Elbridge Gerry attempted to meet with Charles Talleyrand, but instead were asked for bribes.
The XYZ Affair occurred during the term of this second president of the United States, who oversaw the passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts.
This unofficial war with France was also fought by the Adams presidency. This conflict was ended by the Treaty of Mortefontaine in 1800.
XYZ Affair
John Adams [prompt on Adams; do NOT accept “John Q. Adams” or “John Quincy Adams”]
Quasi War [or Half War; or Pirate War; or Quasi-guerre] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The Guillaume <em>[“Ghee-YOAM”]</em> Affair forced the resignation of a chancellor of this country after it was revealed one of his aides was a spy. For 10 points each:
Name this no-longer existing country, which reunited with its eastern neighbor in 1990. The Stasi infiltrated the office of Willy Brandt, a chancellor of this country.
During the Cold War, this city in East Germany was divided by East and West, as well. A wall separating those parts of this city included the infamous Checkpoint Charlie.
West Germany’s “economic miracle” was presided over by Economics Minister Ludwig Erhard and this member of the Christian Democrats, who was West Germany’s first Chancellor.
West Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany; prompt on Germany; do NOT accept “East Germany” or “German Democratic Republic”]
Berlin [or East Berlin; or West Berlin; or the Berlin Wall]
Konrad Adenauer [or Konrad Hermann Joseph Adenauer] &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
This man is considered "The Father of History." For 10 points each:
Name this Greek historian who wrote The Histories, which documents the Greco-Persian Wars.
This Athenian historian is sometimes considered "The Father of Scientific History" due to his exclusion of divine intervention in his History of the Peloponnesian War.
Herodotus claims in The Histories that the messenger Pheidippides [“Fih-DIP-uh-deez”] delivered the result of this battle after running back to Athens. This battle names a 26.2 mile race.
Herodotus
Thucydides
Battle of Marathon &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This emperor was a patron of architecture, as exemplified by buildings such as the Red Fort. For 10 points each:
Name this Mughal Emperor, whose forces were unable to recapture Kandahar during the second Mughal-Safavid War. He attempted to ally with Murad IV.
Shah Jahan is best known for commissioning this white marble mausoleum in Agra. This building, which is topped with an onion dome, houses the tombs of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz [“Moom-tahz”].
Shah Jahan’s Mughal Empire was based in this modern-day country. The Red Fort is located in Delhi, which contains the capital of this country.
Shah Jahan
Taj Mahal
India [or Bharat; or Bharatavarsha; or Republic of India] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Members of this man's gang killed six members of “Bugs” Moran’s gang during the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. For 10 points each:
Name this notorious gangster, nicknamed “Scarface,” who spent time in Alcatraz after being convicted of tax evasion.
Capone’s gang carried out the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre in this Midwestern city. This largest city in Illinois was devastated by a fire allegedly started by Mrs. O’Leary’s cow.
Capone received his whiskey from the Purple Gang, a group of gangsters based in this other Midwestern city. The raid on the Algiers Motel occurred during the 12th Street Riot in this city.
Al Capone [or Alphonse Gabriel Capone]
Chicago, Illinois
Detroit, Michigan   &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Mao Zedong credited this book’s teachings with helping him in his defeat of Chiang Kai-Shek. For 10 points each:
Name this military treatise, which contains sections describing five fundamentals of military engagements and nine common situations.
This man is typically credited with the authorship of The Art of War. He served as a minister for King Helü of the Wu state.
The Art of War was written during the Spring and Autumn period, which occurred during this dynasty’s second half. This dynasty was longest-lasting Chinese dynasty.
The Art of War [or Sun Zi Bing Fa]
Sun Tzu [or Sun Zi; or Sun Wu; or Changqing]
Zhou Dynasty [or Chou Dynasty] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
An FBI investigation of the failure of Madison Guaranty Savings and Loans uncovered this scandal. For 10 points each:
Name this scandal, which arose after David Hale accused the former governor of Arkansas of forcing him to give a loan to a failed Jim and Susan McDougal-run real estate venture.
Whitewater was a scandal during this former Arkansas governor’s first term as president. This man was impeached in 1998 for his inappropriate relationship with Monica Lewinsky.
This man investigated the death of Vince Foster while heading the Whitewater Commission. In June 2016, he resigned as Chancellor of Baylor after mishandling sexual assault accusations.
Whitewater scandal [or Whitewater controversy]
Bill Clinton [or William Jefferson Clinton; or William Jefferson Blythe III]
Ken Starr [or Kenneth Winston Starr] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This civilization's pottery included Vasiliki ware and Kamares ware. For 10 points each:
Name this civilization, which Sir Arthur Evans distinguished from the later Mycenaean Civilization. Its primary script is the undeciphered Linear A.
This island south of mainland Greece contains the ruins of Knossos, which was built by the Minoan civilization. This island is home to Mount Ida.
This German archaeologist found a gold funerary mask that he dubbed the “Mask of Agamemnon” while excavating Mycenae. Arthur Evans often worked with this archaeologist.
Minoan Civilization
Crete [or Kriti; or Krete; or Creta; or Kirid; or Candia]
Heinrich Schliemann [or Johann Ludwig Heinrich Julius Schliemann] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Rudolf Anderson was one of the few people to die during this event. For 10 points each:
Name this 1962 Cold War clash, where the U.S. reacted to the Soviet Union placing nuclear weapons on the namesake Caribbean island country.
After the Cuban Missile Crisis, a hotline was created to facilitate easier communication between John F. Kennedy and this Soviet premier. He denounced Stalin in his “Secret Speech.”
During Khrushchev’s Virgin Lands Campaign, the city of Akmolinsk in this modern-day country was renamed. Akmolinsk was further renamed to Astana, the capital of this country.
Cuban Missile Crisis
Nikita Khrushchev [“Kroosh-chev”] [or Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev]
Kazakhstan [or Kazakstan; or Republic of Kazakhstan; or Qazaqstan Respublikasi] &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
The plaintiff in this case appealed his violation of the Bakeshop Act of 1895, which stated that bakery employees could only work 60 hours a week. For 10 points each:
Name this progressive-era case, which upheld the "liberty of contract" in ruling against limiting the hours that bakers could work.
The majority opinion of Lochner v. New York cited the due process clause of this amendment, which guarantees that states provide “equal protection” under the laws.
This Supreme Court Justice declared that “the Fourteenth Amendment does not enact Herbert Spencer’s Social Statics” in his dissenting opinion in Lochner v. New York.  He is also known for the “clear and present danger” test from his opinion in Schenck v. United States.
Lochner v. New York [or New York v. Lochner]
Fourteenth Amendment [or 14th Amendment]
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
People associated with this party stole a marble stone gift from Pope Pius IX before it could be installed in the Washington Monument. For 10 points each:
Name this Nativist, anti-immigrant and anti-Catholic party, which ran former President Millard Fillmore as its candidate for President in 1856.
The anti-slavery Free Soil Party ran this former President on their first ticket in 1848. The administration of this successor of Andrew Jackson was plagued by the panic of 1837.
This political party nominated Henry Wallace and Robert LaFollete as its candidates for President.
American Party [or the Know-Nothing Party]
Martin van Buren
Progressive Party [or Bull Moose Party] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This dynasty's expansion into Europe was halted by Charles Martel at the Battle of of Tours. For 10 points each:
Name this Islamic Caliphate, which lost much of its influence to the Abbasids after the Battle of Zab.
Yazid I of the Umayyads defeated a small army belonging to Muhammad's grandson at Karbala, which is near this river. This river roughly parallels the Tigris River.
Córdoba was held under Islamic control until Christian forces reclaimed it in this process. This process of Muslim expulsion from Spain was completed with the fall of Granada in 1492.
Umayyad Caliphate
Euphrates River [or Buranunu; or Firat Nehri; or Nahr al Furat; or Perath; or Purattu; or Ufrat]
Reconquista [or Christian Reconquest] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This government executed Rosa Luxembourg for leading the Spartacist Uprising. For 10 points each:
Name this government of post-World War I Germany, that was ended by Adolf Hitler's rise to power.
This last president of the Weimar Republic signed the Enabling Act of 1933, which gave Hitler the power to enact laws without the Reichstag. This man won at the Battle of Tannenberg.
The Eastern Front of World War I was brought to to an end by this treaty. This treaty was signed by Germany and the Bolsheviks during the Russian Civil War.
Weimar [“Vy-mar”] Republic [or Weimar Germany]
Paul von Hindenburg [or Paul Ludwig Hans Anton von Beckendorff und von Hindenburg]
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This man survived an assassination attempt by Lee Bong Chang, known as the Sakuradamon Incident. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor of Japan during World War II, who implored his people to “endure the unendurable” before surrendering.
Following the bombing of Nagasaki, Hirohito recorded this broadcast, where he implored his people to “endure the unendurable” and accept the surrender of Japan.
Lee Bong Chang hailed from this peninsula, which was divided into “North” and “South” countries at the 38th parallel following a namesake war that ended in 1953.
Emperor Hirohito [or Emperor Shôwa]
Jewel Voice Broadcast
 Korean peninsula [or North Korea; or South Korea] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
During this battle, high casualties led the sunken road to be nicknamed "Bloody Lane." For 10 points each:
Name this Civil War battle, where Joseph Hooker was wounded at the Dunker Church. This battle was the bloodiest single-day battle in American history.
This General was dismissed as the commander of the Army of the Potomac following Antietam, due to his failure to follow Robert E. Lee's retreat.
This commander of the ninth corps in the Army of the Potomac captured a bridge named after him at the Battle of Antietam. He also served as the first president of the NRA.
Battle of Antietam [or the Battle of Sharpsburg]
George McClellan [or George Brinton McClellan]
Ambrose Burnside [or Ambrose Everett Burnside] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This man won his last election with almost 80% of the vote. It probably helped that of his nine opponents, only Yaroslav Romanchuk and Viktor Tereshenko <em>[“Ter-e-shenk-o”]</em> hadn’t been arrested. For 10 points each:
Name this world leader, whose tax on the under-employed drew protests and mass arrests in Orsha and Grodno in early 2017. Condoleezza Rice called him “the last dictator in Europe.”
It was reported in April 2017 that gay men in this semi-autonomous Russian region have been subject to mass arrests. This territory’s leader, Ramzan Kadyrov, denied this.
This country’s Aceh province’s strict anti-homosexuality laws led to a mass arrest at a sauna in May 2017. In 2016, this country was the site of protest for a referendum in West Papua.
Alexander Lukashenko
Chechnya
Indonesia &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
These structures’ “bent” type were named due to a switch from 54 degree inclination to a 43 degree inclination. For 10 points each:
Name these structures, three of which were built for Menkaure [“Men-kaur-ay”], Khafre [“Khaf-ray”] and Khufu near Giza. These structures were constructed to be the tombs of the Ancient Egyptian pharoahs.
This area on the west bank of the Nile, near Luxor, was where most New Kingdom nobles were buried. Howard Carter discovered Tutankhamun’s [“Toot-ankh-ah-moon’s”] tomb in this location.
The first Egyptian step pyramid was built by Imhotep to honor this pharaoh. This Third Dynasty pharaoh was buried at the necropolis of Saqqara.
Pyramids [or Egyptian pyramids; or Bent pyramids]
Valley of the Kings [or Wadi al-Muluk; or Valley of the Tombs of the Kings; or Wadi Biban al-Muluk]
Djoser [or Zoser] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
“Flying aces” during this war included Billy Bishop and Manfred von Richthofen, the “Red Baron.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1914-1918 conflict, which began after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand by the Black Hand at Sarajevo [“Sar-ah-yay-voh”].
The tank and the “creeping barrage” tactic were first employed during this World War I battle. Douglas Haig suffered over 60,000 casualties on this battle’s first day.
This Canadian city was where an explosion occurred after the SS Imo collided with the SS Mont-Blanc in the Narrows.
World War I [or the First World War; or the Great War; or WWI]
Battle of the Somme [or the Somme Offensive]
Halifax, Nova Scotia [or the Halifax Explosion] &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
This council affirmed the legitimacy of the Eastern Catholic Church's rites and denied that Jews are solely responsible for Jesus' death. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman Catholic council that lasted from 1962 to 1965, which sought to relate Catholicism with changes in the modern world. It permitted vernacular languages' use in the Mass.
The council began under Saint John XXIII's papacy and ended under this man's papacy. This pope also wrote the anti-contraception encyclical Humanae Vitae.
Pope Paul IV was beatified by this pope in 2014. This current pope, the first person from the Americas to hold the office, was formerly the Archbishop of Buenos Aires.
Second Vatican Council [or Vatican II]
Pope Paul VI [or Giovanni Battista Enrico Antonio Maria Montini]
Pope Francis [or Jorge Mario Bergoglio] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. AR&gt;
This man published “Defender of the Constitution” and created the Cult of the Supreme Being. For 10 points each:
Name this rival of Georges Danton, who led the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution.
Robespierre was the head of this body, which carried out the September Massacres and executed thousands by the guillotine.
Robespierre was a member of this radical faction, which grew out of The Mountain and opposed the Girondins [“Jee-ron-dins”].
Maximilien Robespierre [or Maximilien François Marie Isidore de Robespierre]
Committee of Public Safety [or Comité de salut publique]
Society of the Jacobins [or Society of the Friends of the Constitution; or Friends of Freedom and Equality; or the Jacobin Club] &lt;John John Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This amphibious landing was code-named Operation Chromite. For 10 points each:
Name this invasion carried out by UN forces during the Korean War to allow an advance from the Pusan Perimeter to retake Seoul.
This American General was the commander of all the U.N. troops in the Korean War. This planner of the Battle of Inchon was relieved of command by President Truman in 1951.
This man replaced MacArthur as commander of the UN troops in Korea after MacArthur was relieved. He succeeded Dwight Eisenhower as NATO’s Supreme Allied Commander.
Battle of Incheon [or the Battle of Inchon; or Incheon Sangnyuk Jakjeon]
Douglas MacArthur
Matthew Ridgeway [or Matthew Bunker Ridgeway] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
 This emperor faced the Beach Rebellion in Pernambuco. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor, whose nation defeated Juan Manuel de Rosas in the Platine War. Giuseppe Garibaldi participated in an uprising against this emperor, called the Ragamuffin War.
Pedro II ruled this South American nation, where the Golden Law abolished slavery. This country moved its capital from Rio de Janeiro to a planned city designed by Oscar Niemeyer.
The Duke of Caxias led Brazil and fought alongside Argentina and Uruguay in this conflict, during which Paraguay lost 70% of its male population.
Dom Pedro II [prompt on Pedro]
Brazil [or the Federative Republic of Brazil; or Republica Federativa do Brasil]
War of the Triple Alliance [prompt on Paraguayan War] &lt;John John Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The civil wars caused by a system with this many rulers ended after the Battle of Chrysopolis. For 10 points each:
Name this number of emperors who ruled after the imposition of the Tetrarchy system by Diocletian.
The Edict of Milan was issued by this first Christian Roman Emperor. This emperor ended the Tetrarchy system and built his namesake capital on the ruins of the city of Byzantium.
Constantine defeated Maximinus at this 312 AD battle, where Constantine saw a vision of a cross of light and the words, "In this sign, you shall conquer.”
Four [or 4]
Constantine the Great [or Constantine I; or Saint Constantine]
Battle of Milvian Bridge &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Archaeologists in 2017 unearthed a 6-foot-tall statue believed to have once stood guard over an ancient hospital at this site. For 10 points each:
Name this complex near the Siem Reap River, originally constructed as a Hindu temple on an artificial island surrounded by a moat. Its reliefs depict the army of Suryavarman II.
Angkor Wat is found in the former capital of this ancient empire, which was ruled by Suryavarman II. This empire partly named Pol Pot’s communist group.
Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge ruled this modern country until they were deposed by the Vietnamese. Angkor Wat is located in this modern-day country.
Angkor Wat
Khmer Empire [or Khmer Rouge]
Cambodia [or the Kingdom of Cambodia; or Kampuchea] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer these questions about countries located around the Gulf of Guinea. For 10 points each:
The uranium deposits in the Oklo region of this country created the only known natural nuclear reactor. This country was the site of Albert Schweitzer’s hospital in Lambarene, southeast of Libreville.
The Igbo are an ethnic group, which attempted to secede and form the nation of Biafra in the southeastern portion of this most populous African country.
Between Gabon and Nigeria is this former German colony, whose capital is Yaounde [“Ya-oon-day”].
Gabon [or Gabonese Republic; or Republique Gabonaise]
Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria]
Cameroon [or Kameroon; or Kamerun; or Republic of Cameroon; or Republique de Cameroun] &lt;David Dennis&gt;
Her namesake “memo” as Deputy AG stated that corporations may no longer receive partial credit for their cooperation in investigations. For 10 points each:
Name this former acting Attorney General, who was fired by Trump after refusing to enforce Executive Order 13769, the so-called “Travel Ban.”
Another person fired from work in the Trump Administration was this founder of SkyBridge Capital. This person was removed as White House Communications Director after only 10 days in the position.
Scaramucci took over the role as Communications Director from Sean Spicer. Spicer had been acting in the role after the departure of this founder of Crossroads Media, who served for three months.
Sally Yates
Anthony Scaramucci [prompt on “the Mooch”]
Mike Dubke &lt;David Dennis&gt;
This man was captured at Cajamarca <em>[“Kah-hah-mar-kah”]</em> after he threw a Bible, presented to him by Friar Vicente de Valverde, to the ground. For 10 points each:
Name this Sapa, who was held for a ransom of a room filled once with gold and twice-over with silver by Spanish conquistadors.
Atahualpa was the last sovereign ruler of this pre-colonial empire in South America, which was conquered by Francisco Pizarro.
Before the arrival of Pizarro’s conquistadors, Atahualpa fought this man, his step-brother, in a civil war. This man was captured by Atahualpa at the Battle of Quipaipan.
Atahualpa [or Atabalipa; or Atahaullpa; or Ataw Wallpa]
Inca Empire [or Inka Empire]
Huáscar [or Inti Cusi Huallpa Huascar] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
During the early stages of this 19th-century war, the Alexander Ypsilantis-led Sacred Band was routed at the Battle of Dragashani. For 10 points each:
Name this war, that ended after British, French, and Russian intervention at the Battle of Navarino Bay. Lord Byron died fighting in this war.
Ibrahim Pasha, a military leader from this modern-day country, was sent to quell the Greek Revolution. Ibrahim was sent from this country by his father, the khedive Muhammad Ali.
The Greek War of Independence was fought against this "sick man of Europe." This empire was dissolved after World War I and became modern Turkey.
Greek War of Independence [or the Greek Revolution; or Elliniki Epanastasi; or Yunan isyani]
Egypt [or the Arab Republic of Egypt; or Misr; or Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah]
Ottoman Empire &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
As a result of this scandal, Orville Babcock, the president’s private secretary, was able to purchase land in Florida using money he was gifted by John McDonald. For 10 points each:
Name this scandal, where distillers of the namesake variety of alcohol bribed Treasury Department officials to avoid paying taxes.
The Whiskey Ring and the Crédit Mobilier scandal took place during the presidency of this former Civil War General. This 18th president oversaw much of Reconstruction.
Robert Ingersoll defended Thomas Brady and Stephen Dorsey during this Grant presidency scandal, which involved the awarding of namesake contracts in exchange for bribes.
Whiskey Ring scandal
Ulysses S. Grant [or Ulysses Simpson Grant; or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
Star Route Scandal &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The federal government’s difficulties raising troops to put down Shays’ Rebellion help to motivate the reform of this document. For 10 points each:
Name this document, that served as the first constitution of the United States. This document denied Congress the power of taxation and trade regulation.
In 1787, the Confederation Congress passed this act, which established the first organized territory of the United States and created the process of admitting new states.
This convention was called to revise the Articles of Confederation, but the five state delegations present resolved to have a constitutional convention in Philadelphia.
Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union
Northwest Ordinance
Annapolis Convention &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
During the late 19th century, the Matadi-Kinshasa Railway was built in this colony. For 10 points each:
Name this personal colony, which was the original state policed by the Leon Rom-led Force Publique.
This Welsh explorer was contracted to explore the Congo Free State by Leopold II. This man quipped “Dr. Livingston, I presume,” after finding him in the center of Africa.
The Casement Report revealed that workers who failed to meet their quotas of this good had their hands cut off by Force Publique officials.
Congo Free State [prompt on Congo; do NOT accept or prompt on “The Belgian Congo” or “The Democratic Republic of the Congo”]
Sir Henry Morton Stanley [or John Rowlands]
Rubber [or natural rubber; or India rubber; or Latex] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This king created a code of laws which incorporated Mosaic Code and Christian ethics, known as the Doom Book. For 10 points each:
Name this 9th century king, who ruled Wessex. He defeated the Great Heathen Army that was led by Guthrum, and he is the only English king with the epithet "The Great."
An “elder” king with this name was the son of Alfred the Great. This was the name of the “Black Prince,” who led the English army at Crecy.
Ivar the Boneless conquered this city, which then became the center of the Danelaw. This city was the birthplace of the scholar Alcuin, who was the head of the palace school at Aachen.
Alfred the Great
Edward [or Edward the Elder; or Edward the Black Prince]
York &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
King John III appointed this man as the Viceroy of India in 1524. For 10 points each:
Name this man who improved on the work of Bartolomeu Dias and sailed around the Cape of Good Hope to India.
John III was a ruler of this country. This country was a leader during the Age of Exploration, due to the patronage of Prince Henry the Navigator.
Prince Henry the Navigator was a member of this royal house of Portugal. This royal house founded by John I included the cadet House of Braganza.
Vasco da Gama
Portugal [or the Kingdom of Portugal; or the Kingdom of Portugal and the Algarves; or the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves]
House of Aviz [or House of Aviz-Beja] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
In one attempt to end this event, Count Mikhail Miloradovich <em>[“Mi-lo-rad-o-vitch”]</em> was sent to negotiate with rebels, but was shot by Pyotr Kakhovsky. For 10 points each:
Name this attempt to overthrow Czar Nicholas I, in favor of his brother Constantine. Its leaders included Sergei Trubetskoy and Pavel Pestel.
The Decembrist Revolt occurred after the death of the first Russian Tsar of this name. The second Tsar of this name freed the serfs of Russia.
Alexander II was the Russian Tsar who ended this war, whose battles included the Siege of Sevastopol and the disastrous Battle of Balaclava.
Decembrist Revolt [or Decembrist Uprising; or Vosstanie dekabristov]
Alexander [or Alexander I; or Alexander II]
Crimean War [or krymskaya voina; or Vostochnaya voina] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
While in exile, this man wrote the Jamaica Letter. For 10 points each:
Name this liberator, who freed much of South America from Spanish rule. He was the first president of Gran Columbia.
Bolívar met with this Argentinian General at Guayaquil [“Gway-ah-keel”], Ecuador. This man led the Army of the Andes to a victory in the Battle of Chacabuco.
San Martín crossed the Andes and won the Battle of Maipú, along with this Chilean independence leader. This man of Irish descent was the second Supreme Director of Chile.
Simon Bolivar [or Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar y Palacios]
Jose de San Martin [or José Francisco de San Martín y Matorras]
Bernardo O’Higgins [or Bernardo O'Higgins Riquelme] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
<em>NOTE TO MODERATOR: Please do not reveal the prompt lines, unless a team answers with them, as that will give away the answer to the third part. Thanks!</em> While giving a commencement speech at Swarthmore College, the namesake of these events defended the lynching of eleven Italian-Americans in New Orleans. For 10 points each:
Name these events in the late 1910s, which saw the namesake Attorney General order the arrest of many immigrants with leftist leanings.
The head of the Justice Department's General Intelligence Division during the Palmer Raids was J. Edgar Hoover, who was the first director of this organization.
The Palmer Raids were part of the first one of these colorfully-named movements, which arose due to fears about the spread of communism.
Palmer Raids [or word forms, such as the raids of A. Mitchell Palmer; or the raids of Alexander Mitchell Palmer; prompt on Palmer; prompt on Red Scare; prompt on First Red Scare; do NOT prompt on “Second Red Scare”]
FBI [or the Federal Bureau of Investigation]
Red Scare [or First Red Scare; or Second Red Scare] &lt;Jonathan Amlong&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer the following about some secret police agencies. For 10 points each:
This agency was the secret police of East Germany. Under the direction of Markus Wolf, this agency instituted physiological destruction tactics known as Zersetzung.
This agency was the secret police of the Soviet Union. This agency was responsible for spy rings in the US, such as the Rosenberg Ring.
The Jinyiwei was the secret police of this dynasty, whose Yongle Emperor sponsored the voyages of the eunuch Zheng He.
Stasi [or the Ministry of State Security; or Ministerium fur Staatsicherheit; or MfS]
KGB [or the Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti; or the Committee for State Security]
Ming Dynasty &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
During this period, Charles Finney led religious revivals in the “burned-over districts” of New York. For 10 points each:
Name this religious revival in antebellum America, whose name refers to a similar 18th Century movement. During this period, Methodism became the largest denomination in the U.S.
During the Second Great Awakening, this preacher and first president of Lane Theological Seminary co-founded the American Temperance Society. He had a son named Henry Ward.
Henry Ward Beecher shipped hundreds of Sharps Rifles, known as “Beecher’s Bibles,” to anti-slavery settlers in this state, where they fought a “Bleeding” conflict with border ruffians.
Second Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening]
Lyman Beecher
Kansas [or “Bleeding Kansas”] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer the following about the failure of the Gallipoli Campaign. For 10 points each:
This Turkish man was a commander at Gallipoli. As the first president of an independent Turkey, this man implemented reform with his Six Arrows policies.
This man was demoted from his position as First Lord of the Admiralty due to the failure of the Gallipoli Campaign. This man served as British Prime Minister during World War II.
The date of the Gallipoli landing is a day of remembrance for this expeditionary force, which was composed of soldiers from two British commonwealths.
Mustafa Kemal [or Mustafa Kemal Atatürk]
Winston Churchill [or Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill]
ANZAC [or the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
More than 50 percent of all publicly traded companies in the U.S. and more than 60 percent of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in this state. For 10 points each:
Name this state, whose city of Wilmington is in New Castle County. Its borders are determined by the Mason-Dixon line and the 12-Mile Circle.
In 1935, the Supreme Court forbade Delaware and this neighboring state from ever suing each other again for ownership of the Delaware River.
This tributary meets the Christina River in Wilmington. The battle named for this river allowed General Howe to occupy Philadelphia.
Delaware
New Jersey
Brandywine Creek &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
You are an explorer taking the Northern Route of the Silk Road; answer the following about stops along the way. For 10 points each:
You start your journey in this Italian city, which was ruled by doges and is known for its canals. It was also the home of Marco Polo.
You'll stop in this modern-day Syrian city, which contains Al-Madina Souq, the largest covered bazaar in the world.
As you travel into modern-day Uzbekistan, you'll stop in this capital city of Tamerlane’s empire. This city is home to the Siyob Bazaar and the Bibi-Khanym Mosque.
Venice [or Venezia]
Aleppo [or Halab; or Halep]
Samarkand [or Samarqand; or Maracanda] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This leader was killed while leading a cavalry charge at the Battle of Lützen <em>[“Loot-zen”]</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this "Lion of the North," who led the Swedish forces in the Thirty Years War.
Gustavus Adolphus was inspired by Maurice of Nassau, who was a leader of this modern-day country’s fight for independence. This country’s Golden Age included sea trade in its port of Amsterdam.
The Count of Tilly led the Catholic League to victory at this battle near Prague during the Thirty Years' War. This battle ended the reign of Frederick V, the Winter King of Bohemia.
Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf; prompt on Gustav]
The Netherlands [or the Kingdom of the Netherlands; or Holland; or Nederland; or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden]
Battle of White Mountain &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
 Protection during this operation was supposed to be given by the Carrier Air Wing Eight, which was stationed on the <em>USS Nimitz</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this failed operation in 1980, that was aborted by Jimmy Carter after a helicopter crash.
Operation Eagle Claw attempted to end a 444 day event in this country, where 52 members of the American embassy in Tehran were taken hostage.
Another scandal involving Iran was the Reagan administration’s Iran-Contra Affair, which involved funneling money from arms sales to fund Contra rebels in this country.
Operation Eagle Claw [or Operation Evening Light; or Operation Rice Bowl; or Operation Tabas]
Iran [or Islamic Republic of Iran; or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran; or Iran Hostage Crisis; or Iranian hostage crisis]
Nicaragua [or the Republic of Nicaragua; or Republica de Nicaragua] &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This project was allowed to continue after Donald Trump signed an executive order regarding it. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial project, that would run through its namesake states on its route to Patoka, Illinois.
This Indian reservation in Cannon Ball was the site of protests, since it is in the pipeline’s proposed path. One social media stunt saw many Facebook users “check in” to this reservation.
This governor of North Dakota supports the Dakota Access Pipeline, because he believes it will help his state’s economy.
Dakota Access Pipeline [or DAPL]
Standing Rock Reservation
Douglas J. Burgum [or Doug J. Burgum] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. DD&gt;
Bonus: This woman was accused of antinomianism after she angered local religious leaders such as John Winthrop by accusing them of preaching a “covenant of works.” For 10 points,
Name this early female American religious reformer who was expelled from the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
This founder of Rhode Island encouraged Anne Hutchinson and the Antinomians to settle on Aquidneck Island.
Roger Williams was granted a tract of land on the mainland that became the “plantations” named for this city, the future capital of Rhode Island.
Anne Hutchinson
Roger Williams
Providence &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This man’s official titles included “Conqueror of the British Empire, in Africa in General and” his country” in particular. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator accused of cannibalism, who also called himself the last king of Scotland.
Amin ruled this country. More recently, it has been the home of Joseph Kony’s Lord’s Resistance Army, and it is one of the few countries that still bans homosexuality entirely.
One man from this family, Yonatan, was killed in the Entebbe Raid, a military action that intended to free hostages held in Uganda. Another man from this family, Yonatan’s brother, is an Israeli PM from Likud.
Idi Amin Dada
Uganda
Netanyahu &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Crixus, Castus, and Gannicus helped to lead this man’s namesake revolt. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman slave, the main leader of the rebel forces in the Third Servile War. He died at a battle near Petelia, and about 6000 of his followers were crucified.
The crucified were placed along the Via Appia, one of these structures that the Romans were famous for building. Another one of these was ran from Europe to the far east, and was named for the silk it carried.
This man was tasked with putting down Spartacus’s revolt. He is often cited as one of the richest men in history, and he failed to invade the Parthian,s losing the Battle of Carrhae.
Spartacus
roads
Marcus Licinius Crassus &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: British forces at this battle were led by Codrington. For 10 points each:
Name this battle, the last major battle to be fought between sailing ships. It ended with the defeat of Ibrahim Pasha.
The Battle of Navarino won independence for this country from the Ottoman Empire. Its freedom fighters were led by Alexander Ypsilantis and it was later ruled by the Regime of the Colonels.
This phrase was commonly used to refer to the Ottoman Empire in its last years. It was possibly coined by Nicholas I, who also called the Empire in “a state of decrepitude.”
Battle of Navarino
Greece
“sick man of Europe” &lt;AB&gt;
In September 2015, this group, lead by Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, destroyed the Temple of Bel For ten points each:
Name this militant group in the Middle East led by Sunnis which is causing a migration crisis throughout Europe.
One of the countries affected by the migration crisis is this nation bordering Syria led by Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Joe Biden has alleged this nation of colluding with ISIL.
Russia recently entered an agreement with this man’s regime to begin performing airstrikes on the Islamic State. This president of Syria succeeded his father, Hafez, in 2000.
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (or Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIL, or ISIL)
Republic of Turkey
Bashar al-Assad &lt;MM&gt;
Bonus: An event named for this time period ended with Alexander Kerensky’s government being replaced. For 10 points each:
Name this time period, that also names a 1905 manifesto granting liberties including suffrage.
The October Revolution was led by this faction against the provisional government. This faction opposed the Julius Martov-led Mensheviks.
The October Revolution followed the February Revolution that overthrew Nicholas II, the last Romanov tsar of this country.
October
Bolsheviks
Russia &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This battle resulted in the Geneva Accords and set a boundary at the 17th parallel. For 10 points each:
Name this battle, at which France was defeated, the first time that a colonial resistance force won a major pitched battle. The winning commander was Vo Nguyen Giap.
This country was split into North and South portions after the Battle of Dien Bien Phu. The Southern portion was governed from Saigon until it was captured by the communist North despite the efforts of the U. S.
Saigon was renamed after this leader of communist Vietnam. His petitions were ignored at the Versailles Conference, which was probably a bad idea since he ended up getting them by force.
Battle of Dien Bien Phu
Vietnam
Ho Chi Minh &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: A statue found in Mohenjo-daro is named for a girl performing this action. For 10 points each:
Name this action, that names a 10.5 centimeter tall bronze statue of a girl wearing a necklace with her hand on her hip. A second, similar statue was uncovered, and a life sized replica exists in modern day Mohenjo-daro.
Mohenjo-daro and Harappa are the two major cities of a civilization named for this river’s valley.
One of the best preserved structures in Mohenjo-daro is a “great” one of these. These in Rome were a main center of social life, and they included the frigidarium, tepidarium, and caldarium.
dancing
Indus
baths [or bathhouses] &lt;AB&gt;
Name the following positions in the U.S. Cabinet for 10 points each:
This Cabinet position’s first holder, James Forrestal, had campaigned against its creation as Secretary of the Navy. Ashton Carter is the current holder of this position, who commands the Army, Air Force, and Navy.
The Affordable Care Act’s execution was overseen by Kathleen Sebelius, who has since been replaced by Sylvia Burwell as this Cabinet member. This person’s executive department has oversight over the FDA.
The first woman appointed to the U.S. Cabinet, Frances Perkins, held this post. The Public Works Administration and Civilian Conservation Corps were established by this office during the New Deal.
Secretary of Defense
Secretary of Health and Human Services [do not prompt on partial]
Secretary of Labor &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus:This man fled his home to Asia Minor, where he entered the court of Artaxerxes I. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who had a famous rivalry with Aristides, which Plutarch think occured because they were “rivals for the affection” of a beautiful boy. His most famous victory was over Artemesia I.
Themistocles was victorious along with Eurybiades at this naval battle in the second Persian War. Xerxes supposedly watched his disastrous defeat at this battle from a throne on the slopes of Mt. Aigaleo.
Themistocles was a citizen of this Greek city-state, often called the birthplace of democracy. He served as a strategos and an archon in this city’s government.
Themistocles
Battle of Salamis
Athens &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Name some aspects of Latin American Catholicism. For 10 points each:
Gustavo Gutierrez coined this term for a popular theology that gives a “preferential option for the poor.” One of its practitioners, Oscar Romero, was assassinated while saying mass in San Salvador.
St. Juan Diego saw this Marian apparition on Tepeyac Hill, and this Empress of the Americas is now honored in the most visited Catholic pilgrimage site in the world, a Basilica in Mexico City.
This current pope was the Argentine head of the Jesuits before being appointed Archbishop of Buenos Aires, where he opposed legalization of same-sex marriage.
Liberation Theology
Virgin of Guadelupe
Pope Francis &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: This military corps was disbanded using the Sipahis in the Auspicious Incident. For 10 points each:
Name these infantry units who were originally recruited via the devshirme system. They killed Selim III for his attempts to reform them.
The janissaries formed a large part of the military of this empire centered in modern-day Turkey, ruled by such people as Selim the Grim and Mehmed II. Mahmud II began the tanzimat process of reform in this empire.
This sultan, known as “the lawgiver,” was the longest-reigning sultan of the Ottomans. He had his son Mustafa strangled, and was victorious at the battle of Mohacs.
janissaries
Ottoman Empire
Suleiman the Magnificent [or Suleiman I] &lt;AB&gt;
Virginia Dare, the first English child born in the New World, was a resident of this island. For 10 points each:
Name this island in North Carolina, the site of a failed Walter Raleigh expedition to establish a colony in the New World in 1584. The word “Croatoan” carved into a tree is the only surviving remnant of this colony.
Jamestown, a more successful colony in the long run, was led for a time by this English captain, who was apocryphally saved by Pocahontas, the daughter of Chief Powhatan.
This period of famine during the history of the Jamestown colony was relieved by a supply convoy led by Baron De La Warr. Evidence of cannibalism during this period has been discovered near the Jamestown colony.
Roanoke Island [accept Roanoke Colony]
John Smith
Starving Time [prompt on partial] &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: The first man to hold this title, Warren Hastings, brought yaks to England. For 10 points each:
Name this title. The last British man to hold it, Louis Mountbatten, was killed by a bomb in his fishing boat.
This other man to serve as Governor-general introduced a namesake code. He had earlier commanded British forces during the Revolutionary War and surrendered at Yorktown.
The bomb that killed Mountbatten was placed by the Provisional Republican Army of this country that historically clashed with Britain over such issues as Home Rule.
Governor-general of India
Lord Charles Cornwallis
Ireland &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This ruler was criticized for accepting gifts on her 60th birthday, even though her nation was at war. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler, the adopted mother of the Guangxu Emperor, who took control of the emperor’s government in the coup of 1898. The Boxer Rebellion took place during this ruler’s time in power.
Ci Xi ruled this last Chinese dynasty, which conquered China under the Kangxi Emperor.
The coup of 1898 took place after a series of attempted reforms named for this number. A war between England and France in the 14th and 15th centuries was named after this number of years and featured the Battle of Agincourt.
Empress Dowager Ci Xi
Qing Dynasty
one hundred &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: The phrase “with all deliberate speed” in this decision’s follow-up opinion gave Southern states room to delay integration. For 10 points each:
Name this 1954 landmark Supreme Court case that overturned Plessey v. Ferguson’s “separate but equal” requirements with regards to public education.
Laws against miscegenation were struck down in this 1967 Supreme Court case. Anthony Kennedy’s majority decision in Obergefell v. Hodges frequently cites this case.
The case Browder v. Gayle found segregation in these places to be unconstitutional, after a boycott of these places in which a participant said, “My feets is sore, but my soul is rested.”
Brown v. Board of Education of Education of Topeka, KS [prompt on just “Brown”]
Loving v. Virginia
buses &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: This man was killed after the Battle of Rain despite being tended by Gustavus Adolphus’s personal physician. For 10 points each:
Name this commander, who was victorious at White Mountain, leading to the capture of Prague.
Tilly commanded the forces of a “League” named for this religion, that of the Holy Roman Empire during the 30 Years War.
The 30 Years War was ended by two treaties collectively known as this city’s namesake “Peace.”
Count of Tilly [or Johann Tserclaes, Graf von Tilly]
Catholicism [prompt on Christianity, do not accept other Christian sects]
Peace of Westphalia &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: One of these religious institutions was constructed and later burned on the island Lindisfarne. For 10 points each:
Name these institutions, dissolved by Henry VIII with two suppression acts designed to take their wealth. A cenobium is a version of these institutions in Eastern Orthodox Christianity.
The monastery on Lindisfarne was destroyed by these roving bands of Norse pirates. They were led by men such as Ivar the Boneless, and, contrary to popular belief, did not wear horned helmets.
One man with this name, a Carolingian emperor known as the “fat,” was besieged by the Vikings at Paris. He solved this problem by buying them off, setting the precedent for a later king of this name to give them Normandy.
monasteries
vikings
Charles &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about the Pacific theater in World War II, for 10 points each:
This June 1942 battle saw the destruction of four Japanese aircraft carriers against only the loss of the Yorktown on the American side. It is commonly cited as the turning point of the Pacific theater.
A sneak attack on this location prompted the entry of the United States into World War II. FDR’s “Infamy Speech” was delivered in response to this location’s attack.
The 1944 Battle of the Philippine Sea occurred during the US invasion of this island group. The aerial theater of that battle was named the “Great” [these islands] “Turkey Shoot” due to the number of downed Japanese planes.
Battle of Midway
Pearl Harbor
Mariana Islands [accept Great Marianas Turkey Shoot] &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: This country became independent under Manuel Roxas in 1946. For 10 points each:
Name this former Spanish colony, whose city of Manila was a major stop for Spanish treasure galleons that travelled between this country and Acapulco.
For 21 years, the Philippines was led by this dictatorial president. He was replaced in the People Power Revolution by Corazon Aquino, and his wife Imelda was infamous for her extravagant shoe collection.
The Moro people of Mindanao, who practice this religion, launched a rebellion against the US occupation of the Philippines. The Moro Liberation Front, which is named for this faith, still fights for their independence.
Republic of the Philippines
Ferdinand Marcos
Islam &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This title was held by a man who helped quell the Monmouth rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name this title held by John Churchill, who won battles at Ramillies and Blenheim. To commemorate that battle, this title’s seat was located to Blenheim Castle.
The aforementioned victories occurred during this war, which focused on the question of who would inherit the empire of Charles II. After this war, the Treaty of Utrecht gave Britain control over the slave trade.
The Duke of Marlborough was appointed during the reign of Queen Anne, who was the last monarch from this royal house. This Scottish royal house included kings like James I of England.
Duke of Marlborough
War of the Spanish Succession
House of Stuart &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Two nomads were sent by the Hittites in an early espionage attempt in this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this largest chariot battle ever fought, which ended in a stalemate against Muwatalli II.
The second Egyptian pharaoh of this name fought the Hittites at the battle of Kadesh and built the temple complex at Abu Simbel. That pharaoh of this name had one of the longest reigns in history and died in his 90s.
Records of the battle of Kadesh mention the Sherden people, who were members of this mysterious group of raiders that may have caused or contributed to the Bronze Age collapse.
Battle of Kadesh
Ramses
the sea peoples &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about the Gilded Age, for 10 points each:
This philanthropist and founder of Standard Oil became the world’s richest man during the Gilded Age.
During the height of the Gilded Age, Chester A. Arthur signed this 1882 bill into law, which prohibited the immigration of laborers of a certain ethnicity. The Magnuson Act finally repealed this legislation in 1943.
A fashionable place for Gilded Age families to construct “cottages” was in this Rhode Island city, home to Miramar and “The Breakers”. Edith Wharton’s The Age of Innocence describes social events in this city.
John D. Rockefeller
Chinese Exclusion Act
Newport, RI &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Joseph Martin-Dauch was the only member of the Third Estate who did not sign it. For 10 points each:
Name this oath, signed during a meeting of the Estates General. It is named for the room the signatories used after they were barred from entering the Estates-General.
The Tennis Court Oath was a direct act of opposition to this king, who was executed along with his wife Marie Antoinette during the French Revolution.
Early in his reign, Louis XVI attempted to abolish this land tax that only applied to non-noble laymen. It was first collected permanently during the reign of Charles VII.
Tennis Court Oath
Louis XVI [or Louis Capet]
taille &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This empire won at the Battle of Isandlwana before losing at Rorke’s Drift. For 10 points each:
Name this African empire which was defeated in a war against the British. This empire was led by Cetshwayo and founded by Shaka.
Shaka Zulu used this strategy to great effect in battle. This encirclement maneuver used a “loins” formation that often faced away from the battle.
The Zulu Empire was located in this modern-day country. Nelson Mandela became president of this country after being imprisoned on Robben Island for 27 years.
Zulu
buffalo horns formation
South Africa &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: He may have lost one of his testicles while fighting in the Moroccan Rif War. For 10 points each:
Name this general, whose forces defeated the Republicans in the Battle of the Ebro. International forces such as the Abraham Lincoln Brigade fought against this leader during the Spanish Civil War.
During the Spanish Civil War, the Basque town of Guernica was bombed by this country’s Condor Legion. Hermann Goering commanded this country’s air force, which was called the Luftwaffe.
This fascist party was the only one allowed during Franco’s dictatorship. A split in this party occurred after Manuel Hedilla refused to merge with the Carlists.
Francisco Franco
Nazi Germany [or Deutschland; or Deutsches Reich]
Falange Española Tradicionalista y de las Juntas de Ofensiva Nacional Sindicalista &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Name some questions about the U.S. Constitution, for 10 points each:
Ratifications to the Constitution must be passed by this proportion of the state legislatures or by state ratifying conventions, which partially explains the difficulty in passing amendments.
Section 9 of the first article of the Constitution prohibited Congress from banning part of this practice until 1808. This practice was completely banned in the United States with the passage of the 13th Amendment.
The final clause of section 8 in Article I, the Necessary and Proper Clause, is often given this name because it enables Congress to “stretch” the limits of its powers.
three-fourths or 75% or 3/4
slavery
the Elastic Clause &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about a large South American empire, for 10 points each:
Manco Capac was the legendary ruler of this largest pre-Columbian empire, which was based in modern day Peru. In Quechua, its name was Tawantinsuyu, and it was eventually conquered by Francisco Pizarro.
This person became the last king of a unified Incan empire after defeating his brother Huascar in a civil war. Despite all the gold that was offered to ransom this man, the Spanish eventually executed him via strangling.
Atahualpa earned the enmity of the Spanish when he put a Bible to his ear, and then did this to the book after he didn’t hear anything.
Incan Empire
Atahualpa
threw it on the ground &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about the two Wonders of the Ancient World located in Egypt, for 10 points each:
One of those wonders is this structure located near the Nile delta. It was originally built by the Ptolemaic Kingdom and stood until it was badly damaged by earthquakes in the 1300s.
The other ancient wonder in Egypt is the largest of the three of these iconic Egyptian structures at Giza. Khufu constructed that largest one of these large tombs, which evolved from stacked mastabas.
This man, one of the first engineers and physicians, designed Djoser’s step pyramid, the oldest Egyptian pyramid. He was deified following his death and was conflated with Thoth.
Lighthouse of Alexandria [or Pharos of Alexandria; prompt on partial answer]
pyramids
Imhotep &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This country’s patron saint is St. Olaf, who has a cathedral in Trondheim. For 10 points each:
Name this Scandinavian country, once ruled by Harald Hardrada, with a capital at Oslo.
During World War II, this man led Norway. He collaborated with the Nazis, forcing Norwegian Jews to take refuge in neutral Sweden, and causing his name to become synonymous with being a traitor.
Operation Gunnerside targeted a facility in Norway for producing this material, essential for nuclear weapons production. The Norwegian resistance sank the SF Hydro to prevent this material from being salvaged.
Norway
Vidkun Quisling
heavy water &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This man’s “Secret Speech” offered a firm rebuke against his predecessor. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet premier who presided over a namesake “Thaw” during the Cold War. He famously debated Richard Nixon in a model kitchen in 1959.
American missiles were eventually ordered to leave Turkey in the wake of a “Missile Crisis” in this country during Khrushchev’s premiership. A hotline was established after that incident in this country.
This Burmese U.N. Secretary-General assisted with the resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis. This man became Secretary-General after the death of Dag Hammarskjold.
Nikita Khrushchev
Cuban Missile Crisis
U Thant &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about First Ladies in US history, for 10 points each:
This woman was the first First Lady to live in the White House. She urged her husband, the 2nd President of the United States, to “remember the ladies” in a 1776 letter during a meeting of the Continental Congress.
The anti-drug “Just Say No” movement was begun by Nancy Reagan, who consulted an astrologer after this man attempted to assassinate her husband Ronald.
This First Lady was known as “Lemonade Lucy” for her support of temperance, though it was her husband, the beneficiary of the Compromise of 1877, who actually banned alcohol from the White House.
Abigail Adams
John Warnock Hinckley, Jr
Lucy Webb Hayes &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Answer these questions about sarin attacks, for 10 points each:
This religious cult launched a sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway in 1995, killing 13 passengers. After the arrest of its leader Shoko Asahara, this group has rebranded itself as Aleph.
During a war against Iran, this man used sarin gas and mustard gas on a Kurdish community in Halabja. This member of the Ba’ath party was attacked by a US coalition in Operation Desert Storm.
This country’s president, Bashar al-Assad, was accused of stockpiling chemical weapons such as sarin gas during a revolution in this country. The capital of the Islamic State, ar-Raqqah, is in this country.
Aum Shinrikyo
Saddam Hussein abd al-Majid al-Tikriti [accept either underlined name]
Syria &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: King Gojong was both the first emperor from this dynasty and the last king. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty, during which the Silhak movement occurred. It ended following Japan’s annexation of its home country, and it replaced the Goryeo empire.
The Joseon Dynasty ruled this peninsula, which was split during the 20th century into the north and south constituents that make it up today. Those two countries on this peninsula are separated by the DMZ.
The far earlier Gojoseon dynasty was invaded by this Chinese dynasty. It was interrupted by the reign of Wang Mang and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms period.
Joseon Dynasty [or Choson Dynasty]
Korean Peninsula
Han Dynasty &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Her son, the Young King, pleaded for her release on his deathbed. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, whose court in Poitiers was held as a center of the ideal of courtly love. She negotiated her son’s ransom from Henry VI.
That ransomed son was the first king of England with this name, but he is better known as the Lionhearted.
Richard I was succeeded by this man, who was known as “Softsword” and “Lackland” by the French after he signed the Treaty of Le Goulet. This king also signed an agreement with several nobles at Runnymede.
Eleanor of Aquitaine
Richard
King John I &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: He controversially said that “three generations of imbeciles are enough” in the case <em>Buck v. Bell</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this long-serving Supreme Court Justice. This man’s father, a prominent Boston poet, penned a paean to the USS Constitution in the poem “Old Ironsides”.
In this 1919 Supreme Court case, Holmes declared that attempts to distribute leaflets urging resistance to the draft violated the terms of the Espionage Act. The “clear and present danger” test was established by this case.
Holmes compared Schenck’s actions to a man “falsely” performing this specific action “in a crowded theater”. This term is now commonly used to illustrate the limits of free speech.
Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. [do not accept “Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr.”]
Schenck v. U.S.
“shouting fire” [accept logical equivalents like saying the word “fire”] &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Shapur I captured Valerian during this century. For 10 points each:
Name this century, in which the Palmyrene and Gallic empires were formed as breakaway states from Rome. Aurelian helped end the crisis named for this century by bringing those empires back under Roman control.
The Crisis of the Third Century was followed by the rule of this emperor, who reformed the empire by splitting it into the Tetrarchy. He sacked Ctesiphon, the Sassanid capital.
The Plague of Cyprian, probably this disease, worsened the crisis. This disease, one of two to be eradicated, was last seen in 1979 due to its vaccine, which was originally made from a similar disease that affected cows.
third century [or 200s]
Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus Augustus
smallpox &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Plutarco Elias Calles may have ordered the assassination of this man. For 10 points each:
Name this general who raided Columbus, New Mexico, in 1916. John J. Pershing chased this bandit for nine months before giving up at the start of World War I.
Pancho Villa was a key figure in this nation, whose 10-year revolution saw the overthrow of the long-reigning Porfirio Diaz. This nation’s leader, Santa Anna, lost the Battle of San Jacinto in 1836.
This Austrian briefly ruled as Emperor of Mexico in the 1860s while the US was occupied by civil war. This man was executed when Napoleon III caved in to US demands and withdrew support for this man’s regime.
Pancho Villa [accept Jose Doroteo Arango Arambula]
Mexico
Emperor Maximilian I &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: The Treaty of Fort Jackson ended a war between members of this tribe. For 10 points each:
Name this tribe, which experienced a civil war that pitted the Red Stick Confederacy against other members of the tribe and troops from the United States.
The Creek called this man “sharp knife” due to his harsh policies towards Native Americans. This man’s presidency was derided as the rule of “King Mob” and resulted in the dissolution of the Second Bank of the US.
Jackson ignored the Supreme Court’s decision in Worcester v. Georgia and continued with the removal of the Cherokee to Indian Territory, which eventually became this state.
Creek [or Muskogee]
Andrew Jackson
Oklahoma &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This man’s son Bardiya may have been impersonated by the magus Gaumata. For 10 points,
Name this ruler, whose namesake “cylinder” denounced his Babylonian enemy Nabonidus.
Cyrus’s defeat of Nabonidus freed these people from their “captivity,” which began after Jehoiakim did not pay tribute to Nebuchadnezzar II.
Cyrus founded this empire, which lost a series of wars against Greek city-states while led by Xerxes I and Darius I.
Cyrus the Great
Jews
Persian empire [or Achaemenid empire/dynasty] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Miezko I of the Piast dynasty is considered to have created this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose system of Golden Liberty granted unprecedented power to its noblemen. Its invasion by Germany on September 1, 1939 was said to have started World War II.
The liberum veto, which was part of the Golden Liberty that Polish nobles enjoyed, allowed the Sejm [“same”] to nullify all legislation passed during a session if this many nobles opposed it.
Poland joined this country in a commonwealth shortly after the establishment of the Golden Liberty.
Poland
one
Lithuania &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: William Thomas Turner was the captain of this ship, and is sometimes blamed for his failure to adopt the evasive zig-zag course. For 10 points each,
Name this British passenger ship, the sinking of which prompted U.S. entry into World War One.
The sinking of the Lusitania partially resulted from Germany’s return to this naval policy advocated by Admiral Tirpitz. It refuses to recognize “prize rules” and makes no distinction between commercial and military ships.
Germany’s naval buildup was, in theory, prevented from happening again by this treaty, which Keynes wrote about in The Economic Consequences of the Peace. It ended World War One.
RMS Lusitania
unrestricted submarine warfare
Treaty of Versailles &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Pedro II ruled here for 58 years before being removed in a sudden coup in 1889. For 10 points each:
Name this South American country that lost control of Uruguay following the Cisplatine War. Examples of this country’s slums, known as favelas, can be found in cities such as Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paolo.
The 1888 Golden Law abolished this practice in Brazil. In Britain, William Wilberforce pushed for the abolition of this practice, which he accomplished in 1833.
A period of oligarchical domination of Brazilian politics in the late 19th century was named after this commodity and milk. Brazil is the world’s largest exporter of this commodity.
Federative Republic of Brazil
slavery
coffee &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: It was coined in a reply to a report about problems with black family structures. For 10 points each:
Name this phrase that was coined as the title of William Ryan’s book objecting to the Moynihan report. This term is often applied to allegations that victims of rape “deserved” it due to wearing revealing clothing.
Another opponent of the Moynihan report was this founder of the Rainbow Coalition, who ran for president in 1984 and 1988. His son of the same name, a former congressman, was arrested for fraud.
In 1988, Jackson lost the nomination to Michael Dukakis, who later lost to this Republican, the father of a later president.
blaming the victim [or victim blaming]
Jesse Jackson Sr.
George Herbert Walker Bush [or Bush Sr., or Bush 41, or anything that indicated it is the first Bush; prompt on “George Bush” or “Bush”; do not accept or prompt on “George W. Bush or “George Walker Bush”] &lt;AB&gt;
In July of 2015, a gunman at one of these locations in Louisiana murdered two people. For 10 points each:
Name these locations. James Eagan Holmes killed 12 people at one of these locations in Aurora, Colorado in 2012, during a screening of The Dark Knight Rises.
Another tragic American school shooting took place in this elementary school in 2012, where Adam Lanza killed 20 children.
This executive Vice President of the NRA made controversial comments connecting the Sandy Hook shootings with “gun-free” zones. This man also supports armed police officers in elementary schools.
movie theaters [accept either theaters or the movies]
Sandy Hook Elementary School
Wayne LaPierre &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: This man opposed Nicias and led Athens on the disastrous Sicilian Expedition. For 10 points each:
Name this general, whose constantly shifting loyalties caused him to defect to Sparta and then defect to the court of the Persian satrap Tissaphernes.
Alcibiades led the failed Sicilian Expedition during this war, in effectively ended after the Athenian fleet was smashed by Sparta at the battle of Aegospotami. Its first section was known as the Archidamian war.
The Athenian general Pericles gave this speech near the beginning of the Peloponnesian war. Thucydides recorded a version in which Pericles notes that its subjects “should be honored in deed only.”
Alcibiades
Peloponnesian War
funeral oration &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Answer these things about the many treaties signed in Paris. For 10 points each:
This war was ended by a Treaty of Paris signed in 1783 by King George III and representatives of the United States, including John Adams.
The first treaty of Paris ended the Albigensian Crusade, which was called against these people’s heresy. These people lived in southern France and believed in the Old Testament god as an evil demiurge-like figure.
The 1951 Treaty of Paris created a precursor to the European Union that was centered around coal and this other industrial good.
Revolutionary War or American Revolution
Cathar heresy
steel &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This Prime Minister supported a poll tax called the Community Charge. For 10 points,
Name this British Prime Minister, who was acclaimed for her leadership during the Falklands war.
Thatcher belonged to this political party. Robert Peel is regarded as the founder of this party, which has its roots in Pitt the Younger’s Whigs. It currently governs the UK under David Cameron.
Thatcher was criticized following her term for marketizing this program with the Community Care act. It was a key feature of the welfare state created by the Beveridge report, and addressed the last of that report’s “five evils.”
Margaret Thatcher
Conservative Party [or Tories]
National Health Service &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about your life as a hypothetical Chinese rice farmer in 1977, for 10 points each:
Since 1966, you have been receiving city university students who have been sent to your village as part of this movement. This movement was dominated by Red Guards and included the “Down to the Countryside” movement.
Your current Premier, Hua Guofeng, has recently outmaneuvered the Gang of Four for power following the death of this former Chairman of the Chinese Communist Party.
You see Hua Guofeng replaced the following year by this Paramount Leader of China, who instituted market reforms from 1978 to 1992 and put down the Tiananmen Square protests.
Cultural Revolution [or wen hua da ge min, prompt on partial answer]
Mao Zedong
Deng Xiaoping &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: This city re-entered prominence as the capital of the Chaldean empire. For 10 points each:
Name this city. The Weidner Chronicle suggests that Sargon built this city, and according to legend Queen Amytis missed her home so much that her husband Nebuchadnezzar II built hanging gardens here.
This Amorite Babylonian king’s father, Sin-Muballit, was the first to declare himself king of Babylon. He was the only ruler of the first Babylonian empire, which dissolved following his death.
Hammurabi created a law code based on a principle called lex talonis, often illustrated with the example of taking one of these body parts as revenge for the loss of one of them.
Babylon
Hammurabi
eye [or tooth] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Jackson’s Maysville Road veto was a setback for this plan. For 10 points each:
Name this plan, which envisioned high tariffs, high public land prices, support for the Bank of the United States, and internal infrastructure improvements.
The American System was advocated by this Kentucky Congressman, who was accused of making a “corrupt bargain” in the election of 1824. Afterwards this man unsuccessfully ran two more times for president.
The “corrupt bargain” installed this man as President. This son of a former president had earlier served as the first US minister to Russia.
American system
Henry Clay
John Quincy Adams &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: The dissent in this case claimed that “this case is about power in several respects.” For 10 points each:
Name this case, decided on the same day as Hollingsworth v. Perry. The ruling in this case, which struck down parts of DOMA, was based on the Due Process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
US v. Windsor overturned an act signed into law by Bill Clinton named for the defense of this institution. In the summer of 2015, Obergefell v Hodges legalized the same-sex type of this practice.
The legalization of gay marriage was one of the goals identified by the Gay Liberation Front, an organization founded after these New York riots that included figures like drag queen Marsha P. Johnson.
Windsor v. United States
marriage
Stonewall riots &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This event was made possible by the delay of the attacking army at the Siege of Lille. For 10 points,
Name this military operation, codenamed Operation Dynamo, in which the “little ships” evacuated over 300000 soldiers after an opposing military commander gave a “Halt Order.”
The Dunkirk evacuation was made necessary by the German circumvention of this French defensive structure, which was avoided by sweeping through Belgium.
Both the Dunkirk evacuation and the failure of the Maginot line took place during this war, during which the Free French fought the Vichy puppet state.
Dunkirk evacuation
Maginot line
World War II &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This body within the government of the United States is given many explicit powers in Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution. For 10 points each:
Name this legislative body, made up of the House of Representatives and the Senate, which has the sole power to levy taxes.
A namesake clause of the Constitution gives Congress the power to regulate this activity “with foreign nations,...states, and Indian tribes.”
Congress’s control over the declaration of war was strengthened by this act, which mandated Congressional approval for any military action lasting over 60 days.
Congress
Commerce Clause
War Powers Act &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: Name some aspects of Latin American Catholicism, for 10 points each:
Gustavo Gutierrez coined this term for a popular theology that gives a “preferential option for the poor.” One of its practitioners, Oscar Romero, was assassinated while saying mass in San Salvador.
St. Juan Diego allegedly saw this person on Tepeyac Hill in Mexico. This person is honored in the most visited Catholic pilgrimage site in the world, which is a basilica in Mexico City.
This current pope was the Argentine head of the Jesuits before being appointed Archbishop of Buenos Aires, where he opposed legalization of same-sex marriage.
Liberation Theology
the Virgin Mary [accept either underlined word; accept the Virgin of Guadelupe]
Pope Francis &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: This empire’s second ruler was named after a blue dot on his forehead. For 10 points each:
Name this empire, which was ruled at one time by Bindusara. It was succeeded by the Sunga dynasty.
The Mauryan empire was later ruled by this man, who delivered the Rock Edicts and converted both himself and the empire to Buddhism after witnessing the atrocities committed during his conquest of Kalinga.
The Mauryan empire’s territory was largely in this modern day country. The Mughal empire ruled much of what is now this country, before it was taken over by the British Raj.
Mauryan Empire
Ashoka [or Asoka]
Republic of India &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Nicholas Reeves claims that Smenkhkare is actually this person ruling as Pharaoh. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian queen who outlived her husband Akhenaten, leading to theories of her ruling in her own right.
Nefertiti fathered this “boy king,” whose tomb was excavated by Howard Carter. Due to generations of inbreeding, this teenage pharoah suffered from a club foot, sickle cell anemia, and scoliosis.
Tutankhamun restored the worship of Amun after his father had promulgated the worship of Aten, which represented this object.
Nefertiti
King Tutankhamun
the Sun [or solar disc] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This event was stopped in part due to the efforts of a helicopter rescue crew. For 10 points each:
Name this event, in which hundreds of civilian villagers were killed in a place codenamed Pinkville. William Calley was the only person convicted for his actions during this event.
The My Lai massacre took place during this war, which ended with the fall of Saigon. Domestic opposition to this war helped tank Lyndon Johnson’s reelection campaign.
Opposition to the Vietnam War increased after this offensive launched by North Vietnamese forces, which was named after the Vietnamese New Year.
My Lai [“MEE-LYE”] massacre
Vietnam War
Tet Offensive &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: He kept himself in power and suppressed opposition with the Sigurimi police force. For 10 points each:
Name this Albanian communist leader, who led Albania through a period of industrialization in the latter half of the twentieth century.
This man was, according to Enver Hoxha, the last truly Communist leader of the Soviet Union. This man led the Soviet Union during World War II and was notorious for his numerous purges of political opponents.
Enver Hoxha instituted this religious policy in Albania, making it the first country to officially adopt it. The United States modified the Pledge of Allegiance in 1954 to emphasize that it did not condone this belief.
Enver Halil Hoxhaj [“hodgah”]
Joseph Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
atheism [accept word forms] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: The British response to this revolt began with the trial of the Kapenguria Six. For 10 points each:
Name this Kikuyu revolt that was quelled with the villagisation campaign and the Swynnerton Plan.
The Mau Mau Uprising took place in this British colony that gained independence in 1963. This country fought the Shifta War with its northern neighbor, Somalia, and contains a UN office in its city of Nairobi.
This member of the Kapenguria Six was the first president of an independent Kenya. This man, whose last name can be translated as “the light of Kenya,” was succeeded by Daniel arap Moi.
Mau Mau Uprising
Republic of Kenya
Jomo Kenyatta &lt;AB&gt;
Answer the following about the exceptionally rough life of French aristocrats during the 18th century, for 10 points each:
Aristocrats were expected to make an appearance at these gatherings of educated minds, which were often led and organized by women.
The wealthy were expected to be generous with their earnings and serve as a moral example for the lower classes according to this principle, expressed in French, but often more closely associated with Victorian England.
Apparently, noblesse oblige didn’t help when hundreds of aristocrats got decapitated by this device during the Revolution at the end of the century.
salons
noblesse oblige [no-BLESS oh-BLEEJ]
guillotine
Jiang Zemin and Deng Xiaoping [DUNG SHOW-ping] retained their authority over this organization after their presidencies, whereas it took Hu Jintao several years of his presidency to head it. For 10 points each:
Name this standing army of China which is governed by the Central Military Commission.
The PLA suppressed protests in this Beijing square in 1989, where a lone man stood in front of a tank in an iconic photo.
The fourth of the Four Modernizations, as proposed by this diplomat and enacted by Deng Xiaoping, was the modernization of the PLA. This first premier organized Nixon’s 1972 trip to China.
People’s Liberation Army [or the PLA; or Zhongguo Renmin Jiegangjun]
Tiananmen Square
Zhou Enlai [prompt on Enlai]
Norman Borlaug, the founder of this movement, is often called the man who saved a billion lives. For 10 points each:
Name this movement, the use of advanced technologies like fertilizers and pesticides to greatly increase crop yields around the world, starting around the 1960s.
The Rockefeller Foundation sponsored the Green Revolution in this country, finally allowing it to become agriculturally self-sufficient. The US bailed out this country’s economy in 1995 after the “December mistake.”
Despite rising availability of food, M. King Hubbert sparked global fears by proposing that supply of this commodity would “peak” soon in the future. The price of this commodity is controlled by cartels like OPEC.
Green Revolution [prompt on partial answer]
Mexico [or the United Mexican States]
crude oil [or petroleum]
Answer the following about pre-classical Greece, for 10 points each:
The Classical Age was immediately preceded by this period, which itself came right after the Dark Ages. This period began in the seventh century BC.
Greek culture abruptly stopped progressing during the “collapse” at the end of this age, which was immediately followed by the Greek Dark Ages. During this age, people everywhere learned how to smelt copper and tin.
Bronze Age Greece consisted mostly of the Cycladic culture, the Minoan culture, and this culture on mainland Greece which had a lot of palaces and spawned much of Greece’s mythology.
Archaic Period
Bronze Age
Mycenaean Greece
Under its king Charles XII, this empire lost the Battle of Poltava to Peter the Great’s Russia, ending its reign of power in Europe. For 10 points each:
Name this empire, the most powerful nation in Scandinavia in the early eighteenth century.
During the 1600s, Sweden was led by this philosophically-minded queen, the daughter of Gustavus Adolphus. Peter Minuit established a fort named for her in the New World.
After losing the Great Northern War, Charles fled to this historical state, where he was extradited by Russia during the Pruth Campaign. This polity allied with France and Britain against Russia during the Crimean War.
Swedish Empire [or Kingdom of Sweden]
Queen Christina
Ottoman Empire [or the Ottomans]
For 10 points each, answer the following about 19th century American financial crises:
Some critics blame this president for the Panic of 1837, because he vetoed the bill to recharter the Second Bank of the United States. He was succeeded in office by Martin van Buren.
Many of these companies became bankrupt during the Panic of 1873 due to overextension. A major expansion of this industry was marked with the Golden Spike at Promontory Point, Utah.
The Panic of 1857 was brought on by the fall of the Life Insurance and Trust Company in Ohio, a state where 9 of these state banks were located. Jackson used these banks for government money, leading to the Panic of 1837.
Andrew Jackson
railway [or railroad]
“pet banks” [do not accept “wildcat banks”]
Varina Farms was set up to help with this crop’s production. For 10 points each:
Name this cash crop first grown in the Americas by colonist John Rolfe.
Rolfe planted his tobacco seeds in his residence at this first permanent English colony in America.
Rolfe’s tobacco would have never made an impact if Jamestown Colony hadn’t been saved by this governor who arrived in 1610. Another colony would be named for this man’s royal name.
tobacco [or Orinoco tobacco]
Jamestown Colony
Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr [accept either underlined part]
 In 2013, Eric Holder announced that the Justice Department would start rolling back these laws after lots of backlash from judges. For 10 points each:
Name these laws which require certain sentences to be handed down for drug-related offenses.
Unpopular mandatory minimum sentencing on this drug was part of the reason that it has been legalized in Colorado and Washington state. It is allowed for medical reasons in 24 states.
This Republican presidential candidate crossed the aisle to join Cory Booker in writing a bill to end the federal government’s ban on medical marijuana. In 2014, this man publicly called for the resignation of John Brennan.
mandatory minimum sentencing laws [or man-min]
marijuana [or cannabis; or hemp; or pot; or other slang names]
Rand Paul [or Dr. Randal Howard Paul]
These animals were ferried across the Rhone River on rafts covered by dirt, according to accounts by Livy and Polybius. For 10 points each:
Name these animals, many of whom died on a treacherous crossing of the Alps in 218 BCE.
Hannibal’s war elephants were effective in the pre-Alps days of this war, the second one fought between Rome and Carthage.
Hannibal turned around the disastrous crossing of the Alps with this decisive 217 battle, during which Gaius Flaminius walked straight into an ambush and Hannibal effectively executed a turning movement.
Hannibal’s war elephants
Second Punic War
Battle of Lake Trasimene
This island lost a 38-minute war to the British Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this island where Tippu Tip exchanged cloves for slaves. It was the center of the sub-Saharan African slave trade.
This Chinese eunuch admiral led diplomatic expeditions under the Ming dynasty and visited Zanzibar, among many ports around the Indian Ocean.
Zanzibar eventually joined with mainland Tanganyika to form this modern-day East African country.
Zanzibar
Zheng He
United Republic of Tanzania
Answer the following about archaeology in North America, for 10 points each:
The Cahokia archaeological site is mostly comprised of these topological features, which were constructed by moving vast quantities of earth. The Hopewell tradition constructed several of these objects in Ohio.
At Mound 72 at Cahokia, archaeologists unearthed dozens of these objects, which served as projectile points for early humans. These triangular pieces of stone or obsidian were useful for hunting.
When not using bows and arrows, ancient North Americans may have made use of this tool, a wooden shaft that propelled darts at great speeds. One was unearthed with the Kwaday Dan Tsinchi Canadian Ice Man.
mounds [or Mound-Builders]
arrowheads [prompt on arrows]
atlatl [OTT-el-OTT-el]
Answer the following about the tumultuous career of Jacques Coeur [CUR], for 10 points each:
Jacques Coeur served, and possibly poisoned the mistress of, French king Charles VII, after the excruciating end of this long war fought between England and France.
Coeur also served as a messenger between Pope Nicholas V and Felix V, the last person to hold this title. This title was traditionally given to the leader of the Catholic Church at Avignon during the Great Schism.
Coeur eventually died on service to Pope Calixtus III on this Greek island. This island was the site of an 1822 massacre which attracted much popular support for the Greek War of Independence.
Hundred Years’ War
antipope [do not accept or prompt on “Pope”]
Chios
 This man served as Afghanistan’s head of state for five years until 2001. For 10 points each:
Name this man who died of tuberculosis in 2013 but was only officially declared dead in summer 2015, when he was succeeded by Akhtar Mansoor.
Omar led this fundamentalist Muslim organization in Afghanistan until his death. It was overthrown from political power during the American invasion of Afghanistan in 2001.
In 2015, President Obama appointed Afghanistan war vet Joseph Dunford to this office, to succeed Martin Dempsey. This office is the main advisor to the president on military issues.
Mohammed Omar [or Mullah Omar]
Taliban
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff [or CJCS; prompt on partial answer]
The unanimously-passed Boland Amendment prevented funding of this group. For 10 points each:
Name this anti-Communist group which received funds diverted from an arms deals with Iran.
The Iran-Contra affair rocked this president’s White House. This Republican held the presidency for most of the 80s.
The Boland Amendment and subsequent backlash against Reagan during the Iran-Contra affair were spearheaded by this Democratic Speaker of the House, a Massachusettan who held the office from 1977 till 1987.
Nicaraguan Contras
Ronald Reagan
Tip O’Neill [or Thomas Philip O’Neill]
Name some civilizations that Jared Diamond described in his 2005 book <em>Collapse</em>, for 10 points each:
The mysterious decline of this Mesoamerican civilization in the tenth century is variously attributed to invasion by the Toltecs, climate change, or the decline of Teotihuacan.
This historical culture in the modern-day southwestern United States fell apart due to a massive drought beginning in the twelfth century. They built Mesa Verde.
More recently, this remote island’s population has collapsed down to less than 100 inhabitants after it was battered by emigration. The last British territory in the Pacific, it was first settled by Fletcher Christian.
Mayas [or Mayan civilization]
Pueblo people [or the Puebloans; or the Pueblos; or the Anasazi]
Pitcairn Island
These people made up the “middle class” in medieval society, between the peasantry and the clergy. For 10 points each:
Name these people who obeyed the code of chivalry and fought in battles for their lords.
For fighting for their lords or for the king, knights could be given these parcels of land, which were farmed by peasants.
The modern conception of a knight owes much to these warriors in Charlemagne’s army, many of whom died at Roncevaux Pass. These semi-mythical knights were sometimes called the Twelve Peers.
knights [prompt on vassals]
fiefs
paladins
Thomas Fairfax led the military wing of this man’s operations. For 10 points each:
Name this Englishman who orchestrated the dissolution of the Long Parliament with Pride’s Purge.
The period of Oliver Cromwell’s rule as “Lord Protector” happened after this series of conflicts fought between Roundheads and Cavaliers. This war led to the execution of Charles I.
Pride’s Purge negatively impacted this political movement, which opposed the grandees and whose members were called Agitators. This group behind the “Agreement of the People” had a main platform of social equality.
Oliver Cromwell
English Civil Wars
Levellers
Wild Bill Hickock served as this city’s marshal for a grand total of two months after he accidentally shot his deputy. For 10 points each:
Name this “wildest and wooliest” town in the West, which was the endpoint of the Chisholm trail for cattle rangers en route from Texas. It eventually got supplanted by Dodge City.
Cattle drives ended with the closing of the open range, largely due to this invention. This invention, patented by Joseph Glidden, permitted rangers to stay in one place because their cattle could be fenced in.
While stationed in Dodge City and on assignment in Texas, this Wild West lawman first encountered Doc Holliday. This man’s brother Virgil was the town marshal at Tombstone during the gunfight at the OK Corral.
Abilene, Kansas
barbed wire [or barbed fence; or bob wire]
Wyatt Earp
A famine in this region in 1770 killed ten million Indians under the governance of the British Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this region of South Asia where Subhas Chandra Bose was born. The Awami League originated as an independence movement for this region.
The 1770 famine was largely caused by overproduction of this commodity, rather than food. The British traded this good for silver with China.
In the 19th century, more than ten million people died in the Bengali region as a result of a series of epidemics of this bacterial disease, which is spread through contaminated drinking water.
Bengal [or West Bengal; or East Bengal; do not accept or prompt on “Bangladesh”]
opium [or poppy]
cholera Note to moderator: Read the second part of this bonus slowly.
Time to talk gun policy. For 10 points each:
This pro-Second Amendment organization, led by Wayne LaPierre, is one of the most important lobbyists in Congress.
President Obama's recent executive order was worded to "clarify" the responsibility of this government agency in mandating background checks. This bureau in the Department of Justice is usually known by a three letter acronym.
The executive order was pushed along with the help of this current Attorney General, who succeeded Eric Holder.
National Rifle Association of America [or the NRA]
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms [or ATF]
Loretta Lynch
These people weren’t emancipated in Russia until 1861. For 10 points each:
Name these feudal peasants.
The emancipation of serfs in Russia took place under the rule of this reformist tsar, who implemented local governances called zemstvo and was assassinated in 1881.
Abroad, Alexander wasn’t quite so reform-minded, since he joined this alliance with Kaiser Wilhelm I and Franz-Joseph to quell unrest in Poland and the Balkans. It was masterminded by Otto von Bismarck.
serfs
Tsar Alexander II [prompt on Alexander]
Three Emperors’ League [or the League of the Three Emperors]
George McGovern won nomination in 1972 largely due to these people, after he rewrote the DNC rules to allow them. For 10 points each:
Name these people who cast a vote at the nominating convention, even though they’re not tied to a single state. They’re usually bigwigs in the party.
The rest of the delegates to the national convention are chosen either by primary election, or by one of these local gatherings at people’s houses and schools. Iowa kicks off the nominating season with one of these events.
Until 2000, California implemented this type of primary system, in which people were capable of voting for a member of either party, regardless of their registered affiliation. It often encourages “defensive voting.”
superdelegates [or automatic delegates]
caucuses
blanket primary
Answer the following about revolutionary inventions of the late Middle Ages, for 10 points each:
Medieval farmers finally figured out that overfarming land could kill the soil, so they introduced this system, during which a tract of land alternates between grain, legumes, and being left fallow.
These devices, which were used in Tang China, were improved in Europe by using water wheels as an escapement mechanism. Harun al-Rashid gave one powered by water to Charlemagne.
These triangular sails, introduced by the Portuguese caravels, allowed boats to tack against the wind, and greatly sped up the voyages of sailors during the Age of Discovery.
three-field system [or crop rotation]
mechanical clocks [or astronomical clocks; or water clocks]
lateen sails
Answer the following about the Kingdom of Kush, for 10 points each:
The kingdom was originally a territory of this incarnation of the Egyptian empire, which encompassed the Eighteenth, Nineteenth, and Twentieth Dynasties. This kingdom represented Egypt’s peak.
After the sack of Napata, Aspelta moved the capital of the Kingdom of Kush to this city on the Nile. It eventually got destroyed by Axum.
For the most part, the cultural legacy of Kush consists of several of these structures constructed at Meröe. A “great” one built near Giza is named for Khufu.
New Kingdom of Egypt
Meröe [roughly pronounced "MARROW-uh, but accept close phonetic equivalents]
Egyptian pyramids
This modern-day province, and Quebec, made up the Province of Canada. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian province which makes up modern-day Upper Canada. Ottawa and Toronto are in this province.
The Constitution Act set Canada up as one of these confederations consisting of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia. Canada was officially known as one of these polities until 1982.
Like other dominions, Canada gained its official legislative independence with this statute, passed by the British Parliament in 1931. This statute is named for the part of London where the Houses of Parliament are located.
Ontario
dominions [or Dominion of Canada]
1931 Statute of Westminster Note to moderator: Read each letter individually in the leadin to bonus 14.
Answer the following about Armenia, for 10 points each:
In a violent war in the early 90s, Armenia disputed Nagorno-Karabakh against this Central Asian neighbor. This country on the Caspian Sea has its capital at Baku.
Armenia was the first country in the world to adopt this religion as its official religion. Roughly 93% of Armenians follow an Armenian sect of this religion.
This originally Armenian Kurdish sect follows a mix of Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and Islam. In August 2014, ISIL trapped thousands of members of this sect on a mountain, sparking international outcry.
Republic of Azerbaijan
Christianity [or the Armenian Apostolic Church; do not accept or prompt on “Eastern Orthodoxy” or other sects]
Yazidis [or Yezidis]
This force obeyed the “two-power standard”-- that it must be at least equal to the size of its next two largest counterparts put together. For 10 points each:
Name this branch of the British military which enforced the Pax Brittanica and led to the indomitability of the British Empire for much of the 1800s.
Britain sparked a naval arms race with Germany, however, with the construction of this revolutionary battleship in 1906 which had uniformly large guns all around its battery.
The British reinforced their battleships with these more-lightly-armored ships, which were faster than their armored predecessors. These ships still got gob-smacked by their German counterparts at the Battle of Jutland.
Royal Navy [or the British navy]
HMS Dreadnought
battlecruisers [prompt on cruisers]
Description acceptable. Nigel Farage argued for this action, debating against Nick Clegg, in a series of 2014 contests. For 10 points each:
Name this proposed action, which will be the subject of the “in-out” referendum in 2016 or 2017. UKIP’s [YOU-kip's] popularity largely derives from its Euroscepticism, and therefore, its support of this action.
The in-out referendum was promised after another 2014 referendum held that this constituent country of the UK would not become independent.
Cameron's government has promised to begin the “max” form of this process in Scotland, after the “No” vote. This process is the gradual transfer of authority from the British Parliament to the Scottish Parliament.
the United Kingdom leaving the European Union [or leaving the EU; or obvious equivalents; must mention EU or European Union for points, but saying “England” or “UK” or “Britain” is optional; do not accept or prompt on answers of “Eurozone”]
Scotland
devolution [or devo-max]
Answer the following about American immigration, for 10 points each:
Immigrants to the US from Europe mostly passed through this processing station near the Statue of Liberty.
Immigration to the United States fell during this decade of the 20th century, during which the National Origins Act and Emergency Quota Act were passed. Nativism in this decade led to the peak of the second KKK.
St. John de Crevecoeur likely coined this two-word phrase, which names the theory that immigrants to the United States assimilate into a uniquely homogenized American culture. The salad bowl theory opposes this one.
Ellis Island
1920s [or the Roaring Twenties]
Melting Pot theory
This organization lobbied for, and eventually won, rural mail delivery. For 10 points each:
Name this post-Civil War fraternal organization set up as a farmers’ lobby by Oliver Kelley.
In this first of the major Granger cases that was decided by the Supreme Court, the Court ruled that states can regulate private property in the public interest. It was overturned by the Wabash case.
The Grange movement was eventually overshadowed by this more organized political party, which won 10% of the vote in 1894 midterm elections and advocated for poor farmers. They were later eclipsed by the Progressives.
Grange movement [or the Grangers; or the National Grange of the Order of the Patrons of Husbandry]
Munn v. Illinois
Populist Party [or Farmers’ Alliance]
The Durbin Amendment on this law later went to the Supreme Court. For 10 points each:
Name this law passed in 2009 which greatly increased federal oversight in the financial services industry by implementing the Volcker Rule.
The goal of the Dodd-Frank bill was to put an end to this four-word concept, which is used to describe financial businesses like private banks that the government must prop up to prevent the economy from collapsing.
The idea that this industry was “too big to fail” led to a federal bailout beginning in 2008. This industry was impacted by the “cash for clunkers” rebate system, which helped sales for the Big Three companies.
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act [or Frank-Dodd; or H.R. 4173]
“too big to fail”
automobile industry [or the car industry; or obvious equivalents]
The 1810s were a very dangerous decade to live in England. For 10 points each:
The Luddites did most of their frame-breaking during the 1810s, protesting against this socio-economic event which began in Britain due to its plentiful coal. Its first phase included the invention of the steam engine.
The Peterloo Massacre in 1819 was largely driven by protesters against this series of agricultural tariffs passed by Parliament and Lord Liverpool beginning in 1815. They were finally repealed in the 1840s.
In 1812, John Bellingham shot this politician dead inside the House of Commons, making him the first and only British prime minister to be assassinated.
First Industrial Revolution
Corn Laws
Spencer Perceval
Texts with this title have been written by Tacitus and Polybius. For 10 points each:
Name this common title, which most famously refers to a book written by Herodotus of Helicarnassus.
Herodotus’ Histories is largely an account of the war fought between Greece and this Middle Eastern power, led at the time by the Achaemenid Dynasty under Darius and Xerxes.
Herodotus’ Histories is also possibly the first Greek book on this subject, the actual practice of how history is presented and studied.
Histories [or The History]
Persian Empire [prompt on Iran]
historiography [or word forms]
Answer the following about the budgetary process in the United States, for 10 points each:
All budgetary amendments and appropriations bills must originate in this chamber of the US Congress. This 435-member legislative body uniquely has a Committee on Rules.
If a budget cannot be agreed upon by the president and Congress, this type of bill must be passed to prevent a shutdown. This bill keeps the budget from the previous fiscal year until a budget is signed into law.
The practice of adding these provisions, usually controversial amendments that would not pass on their own, can lead to stalls in the budgetary process. A bill with many of these attachments is called a “Christmas tree bill.”
United States House of Representatives [or the US House]
continuing resolution [or CR; prompt on partial answer]
riders
The Madres of the Plaza de Mayo gathered to memorialize these people. For 10 points each:
Give this term, usually rendered in Spanish, which refers to the thousands of people who were killed or tortured under Jorge Videla’s watch during the Dirty War.
The Dirty War took place in the 70s in this South American country, which later fought the Falklands War against Britain.
Videla led a coup against this woman, the president of Argentina between 1974 and 1976 after the death of her husband.
desaparecidos [or “the disappeared”; do not accept or prompt on “descamisados”]
Argentina [or Argentine Republic]
Isabel Martinez de Peron [prompt on Peron; accept I. Peron or anything to distinguish her from “Eva Peron” or “Evita”]
The Yippies nominated a pig named Pigasus in this year. For 10 points each:
Name this year in which Abbie Hoffman, Bobby Seale, and six others were arrested at a tumultuous, riot-inducing Democratic National Convention.
The 1968 DNC took place in this city, where “gestapo” tactics were used in the streets by Mayor Richard Daley’s men. Al Capone operated in this Midwest city.
During the riots, protesters began shouting this five-word phrase while police officers brutally attacked demonstrators. This phrase likely originates from a Bob Dylan song.
1968
Chicago, Illinois
“The whole world is watching” [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
Answer the following about early modern universities in Europe, for 10 points each:
The concept of the European university was greatly influenced from these schools of higher education in the Islamic world, which often were linked to mosques and taught Islamic theology.
The earliest European university still in operation was in this Italian city, where women enjoyed comparatively more freedom than any other Renaissance city. It outlawed slavery with its early “Paradise Law.”
This Western European city was home to another very early university now known as the Sorbonne. This city on the Seine was the largest in the West for most of the Middle Ages.
madrasas
Bologna
Paris, France
Answer the following about decolonization in Africa after World War II, for 10 points each:
Independence movements in the postwar period were largely driven by this principle, espoused by the Atlantic Charter, which argues that a nation has the sole right to choose its international status without any foreign meddling.
This nation was one of the first to decolonize, gaining its independence from Britain in 1957 under the leadership of Kwame Nkrumah. Kofi Annan was born in this country.
The actual first kingdom to get its independence after WWII was this nation, which was led by Idris I until a coup by Muammar Gaddafi in 1969.
self-determination [or word forms]
Republic of Ghana
Kingdom of Libya
The Spanish word <em>hacienda</em> [AWE-see-end-uh] is a rough derivative of this term. For 10 points each:
Name these privately-owned parcels of land in the Roman republic and empire. These massive estates were worked by slaves in Roman Sicily.
Owners of latifundia greater than 600 acres in area were eligible to join this institution in the Roman Republic. This institution actually wielded power during the Republic, but it persisted well into the Empire.
Roman senators wore a toga with a stripe of this color on it. This color was popularly known as a symbol of royalty, especially in the Byzantine Empire.
latifundia [or latifundium]
Roman Senate
purple [or mauve; do not accept or prompt on “pink”]
This event released a “Declaration of Sentiments”. For 10 points each:
Name this 1848 gathering in New York partly organized by Susan B. Anthony, the first major women’s rights convention.
This feminist and co-leader of the Seneca Falls Convention authored the “Declaration of Sentiments.” She also wrote The Women’s Bible and a History of Women’s Suffrage.
The Seneca Falls Convention sought to change this family dynamic, which followed the idea of “separate spheres.” This three-word phrase referred to the idea that women should unite in being pious, pure and submissive.
Seneca Falls Convention
Elizabeth Cady Stanton
the “cult of domesticity” [or the “cult of true womanhood”]
This organization met in the Round Table talks with the Soviet government in 1980. For 10 points each:
Name this trade union, the first independent union to be founded in a Soviet bloc country.
The USSR’s bland response to Solidarity is used as proof of the decline of this Soviet policy. This doctrine, which called for Soviet military force to intervene in Communist countries, justified the invasion of Czechoslovakia.
The final nail in the coffin for Communism was the fall of this structure that divided East and West Germany in 1989.
Solidarity [or Solidarnosc]
Brezhnev Doctrine
Berlin Wall [prompt on partial answer]
Fritigern led these people against Rome at the Battle of Adrianople. For 10 points each:
Name this Germanic people who split into two branches prefixed “Visi” and “Ostro”. They sacked Rome in 410 AD.
The Goths then joined with Rome to beat back this ruler at the Battle of Chalons [sha-LONE], in Gaul, in 451. This man claimed the Western Roman Empire after receiving a plea from Valentinian III’s sister Honoria.
After the Ostrogoths fought a bloody sixth century war with the Byzantine Empire, this German tribe marched into Italy and easily conquered it. A league named for these people opposed Hohen·staufen control of Italy.
Goths [or Gothic people]
Attila [the Hun]
Lombards
This man was paralyzed in his right arm after an assassination attempt in 1981. For 10 points each:
Name this cleric who, since 1989, has served as Supreme Leader of Iran.
Khamenei frequently feuded with this president of Iran in the early 2000s, for example, over nuclear weapons, corruption, and this man’s anti-Israel stumping. He was succeeded by Hassan Rouhani in 2013.
Khamenei himself is against nuclear weapons, and has issued one of these declarations opposing their use. Ayatollah Khomeini famously issued one urging Muslims to kill Salman Rushdie.
Ayatollah Ali Hosseini Khamenei [do not accept or prompt Ayatollah “Khomeini” and ask the players to spell it if necessary]
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
fatwa
This group gained worldwide notoriety after kidnapping 276 schoolgirls from Chibok in 2014. For 10 points each:
Name this Islamist terrorist group led by Abubakar Shekau [shay-COW] that is active in Nigeria and other West African nations.
Most of the troops used in the counterinsurgency against Boko Haram have come from this neighboring country. In July 2015, a suicide bomb attack occurred in its capital, killing 15 people.
Terrorism is East Africa is mostly driven by this Somali offshoot of al-Qaeda, which claimed responsibility for the Garissa University College massacre in April 2015.
Boko Haram [or Jama'atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda'Awati Wal-Jihad; or Islamic State’s West Africa Province]
 Chad [or Tchad]
Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen [or al-Shabaab; or HSM]
The protocol ending this event provided indemnity money to the United States that was remitted and turned into one of the first modern scholarships. For 10 points each:
Name this 1899-1901 uprising which ended with an unequal treaty signed by the eight-nation alliance as well as by Belgium, Spain, and the Netherlands.
China’s century of humiliation didn’t get a whole lot better when it got destroyed in an 1894 war with this other foreign power. This country shockingly crushed Russia with its newly-modernized navy in a war beginning in 1904.
This man had had enough of the “century of humiliation” when he got emperor Pu Yi to abdicate and declared himself the first president of the Republic of China in 1912, over the objections of Sun Yat-Sen.
Boxer Rebellion [or the Boxer Uprising; or the Yihetuan Movement; or the Society of the Righteous and Harmonious Fists]
Empire of Japan [or Nippon]
Yuan Shikai [prompt on Shikai]
You need to purchase a loaf of bread in a marketplace in ancient Babylon. Good luck. For 10 points each:
Bread in Babylon was made from this grain, not wheat. This grain, one of the first to be domesticated, was also used in ancient times to make beer.
An expert haggler, you manage to work the price of the loaf down to 36 shekels, or roughly one-one-hundredth of this unit of mass used ubiquitously in the ancient world. This unit corresponded to about 80 pounds of gold.
You offer to pay for the bread using corn instead of gold, which the shopkeeper refuses. She is then arrested and drowned, according to a clause from this Babylonian emperor’s law code specifying an “eye for an eye.”
barley
Babylonian talent
Hammurabi [or the Code of Hammurabi]
This man declared “Poyekhali!” while on Vostok 1. For 10 points each:
Name this man who died in a routine training flight in March 1968, seven years after he became the first person to go into outer space.
Gagarin is probably the best-known person to be labelled with this term, the Soviet equivalent of the American “astronaut.”
Gagarin died in the “15” class of these fighter jets, which were built by the Soviet Union for Korea and fought in a narrow strip of land near the Yalu River in the ‘50s.
Yuri Gagarin
cosmonaut
MiG-15 fighter jets [or Mikoyan-Gurevich; or MiG Alley]
During the Il-Khan sack of this city in 1258, its river was said to run black with ink, due to all the destroyed books from its library. For 10 points each:
Name this city where the House of Wisdom was located. It was the capital of the Abbasids.
The Abbasid caliphate took over from this earlier caliphate, which far exceeded the conquests of the Rashidun. Its capital was at Damascus.
Before sacking Baghdad, the Il-Khans also dismantled this Nizari Shi’ite sect, whose elite members were called fedayeen. The fictional obsession of this sect for hashish was invented in the 19th century.
Baghdad
Umayyad Caliphate
Assassins [or Hashshashin] Note to moderator: Read the second and third parts of this bonus slowly.
For 10 points each, answer the following about the Franco-Prussian War:
This Prime Minister of Prussia and mastermind of German unification goaded France into declaring war after doctoring the Ems Dispatch.
The Ems Dispatch concerned the vacant throne in this European country, after its recent abdication by Isabella II.  A succession dispute in this country led to the Carlist movement.
After Prussia and the rest of its German allies defeated France, Wilhelm I was proclaimed German Emperor at this location. Bismarck declared the German Empire at the treaty ending the war, which was signed in this building.
Otto von Bismarck
Kingdom of Spain
Palace of Versailles [or the Hall of Mirrors]
The Iron Brigade, under the control of this army, got its nickname from John Gibbon during the Second Battle of Bull Run. For 10 points each:
Name this army which got destroyed during the Seven Days’ Battles after launching the failed Peninsula Campaign. It merged with the Army of Virginia after Second Bull Run.
The losing general for most of the Peninsula Campaign was this obnoxious general who ran against Lincoln in 1864 on the Democratic ticket and lost.
The winning general during the Seven Days was this brilliant Southerner who replaced Joseph Johnston and surrendered to Grant at Appomattox.
Army of the Potomac [prompt on Union army; prompt on the North or similar answers]
General George Brinton McClellan
Robert Edward Lee
The fact that many sub-Saharan languages are very similar is often given as evidence for this event. For 10 points each:
Name this series of migrations which took place over several centuries and led to the cultural diffusion of technologies like iron smelting.
The Bantu migrations pushed out the Khoisan people from much of Africa, although, to this day, the Khoisan [KOI-sawn] practice a hunter-gatherer life in this desert of southern Africa, where they are known pejoratively as “Bushmen.”
The Shona language of the Bantu family was spoken mostly in this kingdom. This kingdom’s capital was encircled by a large stone wall.
Bantu migrations [or the Bantu expansion; prompt on answers of migration/expansion/cultural diffusion; accept any answer that involves the Bantus]
Kalahari Desert
Great Zimbabwe
Answer the following about the establishment clause, for 10 points each:
It was applied by the Supreme Court in 1962 in Engel v. Vitale to ban this activity. Santa Fe Independent v. Doe banned this practice at some football games.
The clause is found in this amendment of the Constitution’s Bill of Rights, which offers freedom of speech, religion, and press.
This other main clause in the First Amendment prevents Congress from passing laws that interfere with religious beliefs; it was first applied in 1878 in Reynolds v. US.
school prayer [or prayer in public schools; prompt on partial answer; do not accept or prompt on “reading the Bible”]
First Amendment
free exercise clause
Fill in the blanks in these Winston Churchill speeches, for 10 points each:
During the worst days of the Battle of France in 1940, Churchill remarked that, “if the British Empire and its Commonwealth last for a thousand years, men will still say that this was &lt;this three-word phrase&gt;.”
At a speech in Missouri in 1946, Churchill quipped that one of these structures has “descended across the Continent”, from “Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic.” This barrier divided NATO from the Warsaw Pact.
In the same speech, Churchill declared that one of these bonds exists between the British Commonwealth and the United States. This two-word term is colloquially used to refer to the close ties between those two countries.
“their finest hour”
an iron curtain
a “special relationship”
Operation Triton, the successor to Operation Mare Nostrum, was initiated to aid the plight of migrants across this body of water. For 10 points each:
Name this body of water, where thousands of refugees from the Middle East have drowned while crossing over into Europe in the last two years.
The most common crossing point is from this country to Italy. A civil war currently fought in this country is contested between the Muslim Brotherhood backed “Dawn”, and the Tobruk government backed by the West.
This EU agency established Operation Triton to assist the handling of the migrants. This group is responsible for the border security of the European Union member states.
Mediterranean Sea
State of Libya
Frontex
The Long Walls connected this city all the way to its port at Piraeus. For 10 points each:
Name this city. The propylaea [pro-puh-LIE-uh] gated the entrance to a massive plateau in the center of this city that was home to the Erechtheion [uh-RECK-thee-on].
This other building in ancient Athens was a temple to Athena on the Acropolis. The original site of the Elgin marbles, it was constructed during Pericles’ reign.
Roman Emperor Hadrian had one of these buildings named for him built on the Acropolis. Nineveh once was the home of one of these buildings named for the Assyrian king Ashurbanipal [ash-oor-BAN-uh-pawl].
Classical Athens
Parthenon
libraries [or library of Ashurbanipal; or Hadrian’s library]
Christian de Castries, the losing commander at this battle, was held as a prisoner of war. For 10 points each:
Name this 1954 battle during which the French got destroyed by the Viet Minh and got kicked straight out of Indochina.
The First Indochina War was ended with a conference at this Swiss city in 1954. This city’s namesake “conventions” outline the basic rights of prisoners of war.
This man came to power in South Vietnam after the Geneva Conference and instituted a dictatorship propped up by the US. This Catholic man was assassinated in 1963.
Battle of Dien Bien Phu
Geneva
Ngô Dinh Diêm
A battle fought in this city was inspired by an attack on a wedding that killed the father of the groom. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was under siege from 1992 until 1996. Radovan Karadzic [kuh-ROD-zitch] ordered this city’s siege and committed war crimes during it.
The siege of Sarajevo took place during this 90s war, which included a massacre at Srebenica [shruh-BEN-ick-uh] and the first genocide since WWII.
The Bosnian War was ignited by the breakup of this ex-Communist state encompassing most of Eastern Europe. It was once led by Josip Tito.
Sarajevo
Bosnian War
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Answer the following about the Adams-Onís treaty, for 10 points each:
It ceded this modern-day state to the US from Spain. The Seminoles lived in this state
The treaty also granted Spain this status in trade with the US. This status, which grants the lowest possible duties on tariffs exchanged between two countries, was given to the US by China in the Treaty of Wanghia.
Most-favored nation status was granted to Britain under this unpopular 1794 treaty. The namesake of this treaty joked that he could find his way across the country from the light of people burning him in effigy.
Florida
most-favored nation status [or MFN; or most favored country]
Jay’s Treaty [or John Jay’s Treaty]
Public opinion turned against these cities after the shooting of Kathryn Steinle [STEIN-lee] in San Francisco in July 2015. For 10 points each:
Name these cities that do not enforce federal regulations against illegal immigrants.
Federal immigration legislation is enforced by this Cabinet department, which was created in 2002 and is currently led by Jeh Johnson.
An immigration reform bill in 2013, written by this group of senators, was accused of being soft on sanctuary cities. This bipartisan group, named for the number of its members, included Marco Rubio and Chuck Schumer.
sanctuary cities
Department of Homeland Security [or DHS]
Gang of Eight [there are several gangs of eight, so accept any additional descriptors]
In 1971, the eastern part of this country declared its independence as Bangladesh. For 10 points each:
Name this longtime rival of India which became the home of Indian Muslims after the partition.
Pakistan’s long-dominant PPP political party was founded by Zulfikar Ali, a member of this family. A woman in this family served as prime minister for two terms in the late 80s and early 90s, but was assassinated in 2007.
The PPP is opposed by this other political party, which is a descendant of Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s original party advocating independence of Pakistan. It is usually abbreviated “N”.
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Bhutto [or Benazir Bhutto; or Zulfikar Ali Bhutto]
Pakistan Muslim League [or the All-India Muslim League]
Samuel Gompers served as president of this federation for 37 out of 38 consecutive years. For 10 points each:
Name this federation of labor unions, less radical than its Knights of Labor predecessors, which merged with the CIO in 1955.
The AFL scored a major victory in 1935 with the passage of the Wagner Act, which set up this independent government agency to resolve labor disputes.
The NLRB and AFL suffered a bigger setback, however, with a 1947 law named for this Ohio politician and Fred Hartley, which banned closed shops. This Ohio politician and son of a president was known as Mr. Republican.
The American Federation of Labor [accept AFL]
National Labor Relations Board [or NLRB]
Robert Alphonso Taft
This nation devalued its currency by 2% in August 2015, after its stock markets lost around 30% of their value in June and July. For 10 points each:
Name this country which pegged its currency, the yuan, to the dollar until 2005.
China underwent the depreciation in hope that the yuan would join this organization's “special drawing rights” basket. This international organization loans money to member nations and promotes economic cooperation.
In 2012, Mitt Romney pledged to label China with this two-word phrase because it has kept the yuan artificially low against the dollar. Twice a year, the Treasury Department considers whether or not to apply this label to China.
People’s Republic of China [or PRC; or Zhonghua; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China” or “ROC”]
IMF [or the International Monetary Fund]
a “currency manipulator” [or currency manipulation; do not accept or prompt on synonyms, but word forms are fine]
This leader got transferred to the Canary Islands to keep him from launching a coup, a brilliant strategy that failed when he left the islands and launched a coup. For 10 points each:
Name this generalissimo of Spain who won the Spanish Civil War.
Franco styled himself one of these authoritarian leaders, from the Spanish for “chief”, borrowing a term used by many Latin American dictators in the 1800s.
After his death, Franco was succeeded by this king of Spain, who abdicated in 2014.
Francisco Franco Bahamonde
caudillos [or El Caudillo]
King Juan Carlos I [prompt on partial name, but the number is not required]
This civilization held public festivals which sometimes included <em>ludi</em>, or games. For 10 points each:
Name this great civilization which held the Lupercalia festival, to celebrate where Romulus and Remus were nursed by the she-wolf.
The December festival celebrating crop growth and the winter solstice was named for this Roman god. The temple for this god in the Roman forum stood near the Arch of Septimius Severus.
Scandal surrounded this popularist when he attempted to disguise himself as a woman to enter the female-only Bona Dea festival. Cicero gave the “Pro Milone” speech to defend a man from charges of murdering this politician.
Rome [or Roman Kingdom; or Roman Republic; or Roman Empire]
Saturn [accept Saturnalia]
Publius Clodius Pulcher [or P. Clodius Pulcher]
