In 2017, a river in the country became the first in the world to be granted personhood status. For 10 points each:
Name this country where protesters erected a statue of Nick Smith, the environmental minister, defecating into a cup of water to show their displeasure at recent changes in its rural landscape.
As of 2018, this country imported 24 percent of its milk from New Zealand's burgeoning dairy industry. Daigou ("dye-go") buy luxury goods and infant formula from abroad and import them to this country, which has the world's second-largest economy.
New Zealand has imposed restrictions on the use of this element near Lake Taupo. This element mostly reaches the lake from farm runoff.
New Zealand [accept Aotearoa]
China [accept People's Republic of China or PRC or Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó]
nitrogen [prompt on N]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
In <em>The Story of the Shipwrecked Sailor</em>, this place is ruled by a serpent who claims it will eventually disappear. For 10 points each:
Name this land which was visited in the 16th century B.C. by a royal expedition. The expedition brought back frankincense, coal, precious metals, and several myrrh trees.
This pharaoh sponsored the expedition to the Land of Punt. Her successor, Thutmose III possibly struck her name from the historical record.
It is thought that the Kingdom of Punt corresponds to Somalia, but some scholars argue it can be found in this other region. The Romans called the southern part of this region Felix, meaning "happy" or "fertile."
Land of Punt [accept Pwnt or Pwenet]
Hatshepsut [accept Hatchepsut]
Arabia [accept Arabian Peninsula; do not accept or prompt on "Saudi Arabia" or "Yemen"]  &lt;Jose, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
This man was the first person in history to resign from the cardinalate, and by the end of his life almost always wore a mask to hide his syphilis scars. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Pope Alexander VI who pursued a military career after the death of his brother Giovanni.
Cesare's sister Lucrezia was widely rumored to have a ring which she used to kill people with this type of substance. Food tasters were employed to prevent monarchs from being killed by this general type of substance.
Cesare fought in the Italian Wars, which began after this French king invaded the peninsula to stake a dynastic claim to the Kingdom of Naples.
Cesare Borgia [or César Borja; prompt on Borgia]
poison [or toxins; accept noxious substance or venom]
Charles VIII [accept Charles the Affable; prompt on Charles]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
These people name an international car rally whose participants raise money for charity while driving ten thousand miles from Europe. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose traditional "three manly sports" are horse racing, archery, and wrestling. The soyombo symbol appears on their flag.
The Mongol Rally originally ended in this capital city of Mongolia, but today it ends in the nearby Republic of Buryatia for tax reasons.
In 2010, a rally participant was killed in an accident in this country, which participants usually enter via the city of Astara. The Karun, this country's only major navigable river, provides water for a city that houses Naghsh-e Jahan Square.
Mongols [accept Mongolians; accept Mongol Rally]
Ulaanbaatar [accept Ulan Bator]
Iran [accept Islamic Republic of Iran; the city being referenced is Isfahan]  &lt;Alston, Geography - World&gt;
Simon Bolivar's family made their fortune from owning mines for gold and this other substance. For 10 points each:
Name this good. In the Motorcycle Diaries, Che Guevara claimed that his political consciousness arose while visiting a center for this good's production called Chuquicamata ("choo-kee-kah-MAH-tah").
Chuquicamata was one of three copper mines nationalized by this socialist president, leading to his overthrow by Augusto Pinochet in a U.S.-backed coup.
Allende was president of this South American country, the world's largest copper producer, which gained the Atacama Desert from Bolivia following the War of the Pacific.
copper [prompt on ore or metal or mining]
Salvador Allende [accept Salvador Guillermo Allende Gossens]
Republic of Chile  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
This term was coined by John Randolph of Virginia after a children's game where kids put on masks to frighten people. For 10 points each:
Name this abusive term for Northerners who supported the South and slavery.
Although Randolph used "doughface" in a debate over the Nonintercourse Act, it really gained popularity in 1820 in the fight over this state's admission to the Union. The compromise named for this state prohibited slavery in territories above the 36th parallel.
Doughfaces supported a policy of this name in the House of Representatives that tabled anti-slavery petitions. John Quincy Adams vigorously campaigned against this policy.
doughface
Missouri
gag rule [or 21st rule; do NOT accept or prompt on "gag order"]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Many of this empire's free imperial cities forged alliances between themselves, forming leagues called Städtebünde. For 10 points each:
Name this empire where cities such as Augsburg and Nurnberg were subject only to the Emperor's authority, rather than that of local princes.
This Free Imperial City hosted a 1521 Diet where Martin Luther defended himself from Johann Eck. Luther famously declared, "Here I stand, I can do no other" at the Diet in this city.
This other free city in Northern Germany prospered in the Middle Ages by being the main city of the Hanseatic League.
Holy Roman Empire [accept Sacrum Romanum Imperium or Heiliges Römisches Reich; prompt on HRE; but do not accept or prompt on Roman Empire]
Worms
Lubeck [or Lybæk; or Liubice]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Although over 33,000 people are buried in this location, only two of the graves have names attached to them. For 10 points each:
Name this memorial erected with coerced labor in the Sierra de Guadarrama foothills. A massive stone cross stands out from this burial site of José Antonio Primo de Rivera.
The Valley of the Fallen was constructed by this Spanish dictator who died in 1975. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has pledged to remove this man's body from the site.
This pope consecrated the Valley of the Fallen in 1960. He convoked the Second Vatican Council in 1962.
Valley of the Fallen [or Valle de los Caídos]
Francisco Franco [or Francisco Franco Bahamonde]
John XXIII [or Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Events in this state's "unique Civil Rights Struggle" include Alberta Schenck being arrested for patronizing a "white's only" movie theater in 1944. For 10 points each:
Name this state, whose holiday of Elizabeth Peratrovich Day celebrates a 1945 Anti-Discrimination Act that banned "No Natives Allowed" signs.
Alberta Schenck is sometimes referred to as Alaska's version of this woman, whose refusal to give up her seat sparked the Montgomery Bus Boycott.
During World War II, some 881 Aleuts were placed in makeshift internment camps inside abandoned salmon canneries. Many Alaskero cannery works came from this modern-day country, where the USAFEE was based at the start of World War II.
Alaska [accept Alaska Territory]
Rosa Parks [or Rosa Louise McCauley Parks]
The Philippines [or Republic of the Philippines; or Pilipinas]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
In his book <em>The Presidential Succession of 1910</em>, this man outlined his plans for the Anti-Reelectionist Party. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose Plan of San Luis Potosí led to the overthrow of Porfirio Díaz. He was assassinated alongside José María Pino Suárez at the end of the Ten Tragic Days.
Madero served as president from 1911 to 1913 during this conflict sparked when Díaz announced a new election. Emiliano Zapata fought for agrarian rights during this conflict.
Zapata denounced Madero's revolutionary image in this document which argued that land monopolies should be disbanded. This document is the cornerstone of the modern Zapatista movement.
Francisco Ignacio Madero Gonzalez
Mexican Revolution [accept la Revolución Mexicana, the Mexican Civil War, la Guerra Civil Mexicana, prompt on revolution or la revolución]
Plan of Ayala [accept Plan de Ayala; prompt on partial answer]  &lt;Evans, History - World&gt;
This leader began a purge by breaking three bottles filled with red ink in a crowded city square. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who began the Qey Shibir, or "Red Terror", in the late 1970s. This leader is accused of causing a famine in the 1980s to target his country's Tigrayan people.
Mengistu overthrew this emperor of Ethiopia who called on the League of Nations to help repel a foreign invasion of his country prior to World War II.
Haile Selassie's Ethiopia was attacked by this country, whose invasion force was led by Pietro Badoglio ("buh-DOY-oh"). This country attempted to build an empire around the Mediterranean Sea, which its leader called "Mare Nostrum", or "Our Sea".
Mengistu Haile Mariam
Haile Selassie I [accept Ras Tafari Makonnen; prompt on Haile or Selassie; prompt on Makonnen; prompt on Tafari]
Italy [accept Italian Republic or Republica Italiana]  &lt;Singh, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Priest and journalist Bernard Darke was murdered in this country by a religious cult called the House of Israel for taking pictures of their headquarters. For ten points each:
Name this country, where the House of Israel was closely aligned with dictator Forbes Burnham during the 1980s.
This other cult leader convinced over 900 of his followers to drink cyanide-laced Kool-Aid in a mass suicide in a Guyanese settlement named for him.
Burnham nationalized bauxite mines and this resource, leading to an economic downturn. The British brought over indentured servants from India to work on plantations for this resource, which was used to make molasses.
Co-operative Republic of Guyana
Jim Jones [accept James Warren Jones]
sugar [accept sugarcane or cane sugar; do not accept or prompt on "cane" or "molasses"]  &lt;Singh, History - World&gt;
A brand would be placed on a defendant's thumb after exercising this right so the same person couldn't exercise it again. For 10 points each:
Name this right that would be granted to someone who could recite a Bible passage, thereby making him exempt from the king's jurisdiction.
The benefit of clergy could be applied to grand larceny but not the type of robbery performed along these things. The Romans built many paved examples of these things in England.
Australian highway robbers were known as "bushrangers" and included this outlaw, who wore a homemade suit of armor during his last battle with police in Glenrowan.
benefit of clergy [accept privilegium clericale]
highways [accept roads or trunk roads]
Ned Kelly [accept Edward Kelly]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
The president of this country, a former sitcom actor, campaigned on the slogan that he was "neither corrupt nor a thief." For 10 points each:
Name this country whose president, Jimmy Morales, is now under investigation by the UN's CICIG for, you guessed it, corruption.
This Florida Senator and 2016 presidential candidate held up funding the CICIG over allegations that it had ties to the Kremlin.
Prior to aid being cut off by Donald Trump, the US government spent millions helping Guatemalan farmers cope with this fungus, which has also devastated the economy of Colombia. This fungus has threatened supplies for companies such as Starbucks.
Guatemala [or Republic of Guatemala]
Marco Rubio [or Marco Antonio Rubio]
coffee rust or [Hemileia vastatrix]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following related to military footwear:
Footwear for these animals tended to be much better than for foot soldiers because these animals cost more. Farriers manufactured these animal's namesake iron shoes.
The boots named for this general were deliberately uncomfortable to demonstrate that officers rode horses rather than marched. As Prime Minister, this man supported the 1829 Catholic Relief Act.
This inventor was so moved by the miserable condition of the boots worn by Sir John Moore's retreating troops from Portugal that he mass produced his own alternatives. His son built the Great Western Railway and the steamship SS Great Western.
war horses [accept horseshoes]
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington [or Duke of Wellington]
Marc Isambard Brunel  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This ruler sent two types of food to the strange men on "floating mountains" to see if they were humans or gods. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler, who, like his predecessors, held the title of tlatoani or speaker of the gods.
One bad omen during Montezuma's rule was a thunderless lightning bolt which destroyed a temple in this Aztec capital.
Although he likely wore a turquoise diadem instead, the Museum of Ethnology in Vienna houses a headdress made from hundreds of these objects once thought to belong to Montezuma.
Montezuma II [or Moctezuma II; or Montezuma the Young; or Moteuczoma; or Motecuhzoma; or Motēuczōmah; or Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin]
Tenochtitlan [accept Mexico City; or City of Mexico; or Ciudad de México; or CDMX]
bird feathers [or quetzal feathers; prompt on birds]  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about successful instances of Byzantine diplomacy.
Saints Cyril and Methodius were sent by Emperor Michael III to convert these people to Christianity, which they accomplished through their creation of the Glagolitic alphabet.
Alexius I successfully managed to avoid conflict with participants in this conflict, who went on to successfully conquer Jerusalem after a call from Pope Urban II.
Michael VIII formed a marriage alliance with Nogai, a leader of this Mongol khanate originally granted to Genghis Khan's son Jochi.
Slavs [prompt on Moravians]
First Crusade [prompt on Crusades; prompt on the People’s Crusade]
Golden Horde [or Kipchak Khanate]  &lt;Raje, History - European&gt;
This empire's eastern expansion helped bring about the dissolution of the Kushan empire. For 10 points each:
Name this Persian empire whose central position on Silk Road trade was threatened by the Hephthalites. It warred against the Eastern Romans under rulers like Shapur I.
The Sassanids proselytized this state religion of theirs, though it did not spread as far as Manichaeism or Christianity. This religion venerates Ahura Mazda.
The last self-proclaimed Sassanid emperor, Peroz III, died in exile in this foreign capital after becoming part of its court. Many Sogdians were part of the court in this capital city, including a general who rebelled in the 750s.
Sassanid empire [accept Sassanian empire or Eranshahr; prompt on Persian empire before "Persian"]
Zoroastrianism [accept Mazdayasna or Mazdaism; do not accept or prompt on "Mazdakism"]
Chang'an [accept Xi'an] (It was the capital of the Tang dynasty at the time.)  &lt;Alston, History - World&gt;
This leader ordered a genocide against his country's French residents and ruled as an autocrat before being assassinated while putting down a rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name this man who completed the Haitian Revolution and declared himself the first Emperor of Haiti in 1804.
Dessalines was a lieutenant of this first major leader of the revolution. After defeating Andre Rigaud in the War of the Knives, this man promulgated an 1801 Constitution that declared Haiti a French colony and declared himself Governor-General for Life.
This history of the Haitian Revolution written by C.L.R. James linked the Haitian struggle with the French Revolution and its ideals.
Jean-Jacques Dessalines [or Jacques I]
Toussaint L'Ouverture [or François-Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture,or Toussaint Bréda; prompt on Toussaint]
The Black Jacobins  &lt;Rosenberg, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Identify the following about the political paintings of William Sidney Mount, for 10 points each.
People consume this beverage in a Mount painting allegorizing the election of 1840. Backers of William Henry Harrison were often given this alcoholic drink as a show of support for the candidate.
Mount's The Raffle highlights the food shortages brought about by the Panic of 1837. This specific food names an 1837 riot where hungry Locofocos seized sacks of it that were being hoarded in New York storerooms.
A later Mount painting depicts a room full of New Yorkers reading of this event, which began on Sutter's Mill. San Francisco became a boom town during this event.
hard cider
flour [accept Flour Riot]
California gold rush [or 1849 gold rush; prompt on gold rush or San Francisco gold rush]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
This commander's infantry were slaughtered by a British ambush in the Little Egg Harbor Massacre. For 10 points each:
Name this Polish count who died at the Battle of Savannah. In 2019, researchers announced that this "Father of the American Cavalry" was most likely intersex.
The Little Egg Harbor Massacre took place in this present-day state. George Washington defeated a contingent of Hessian mercenaries in this state during the Battle of Trenton.
Pulaski's earlier exploits in New Jersey included helping this general take back the town of Haddonfield. This general and future Georgia Congressman suffered a humiliating defeat by Charles Grey at the Battle of Paoli.
Casimir Pulaski [or Kazimierz Michał Władysław Wiktor Pułaski]
New Jersey
"Mad" Anthony Wayne  &lt;Augelli, History - American&gt;
This woman's husband Pedro was the editor of <em>La Prensa</em> whose assassination inspired riots in Managua against the Somoza family.
Name this woman, who represented the National Opposition Union in 1990 when she became the first elected female head of state in the Americas.
Chamorro defeated this incumbent president, a leader of the Sandinistas. This man was re-elected in 2007 and remains the president of Nicaragua.
Ortega's Sandinistas fought a civil war against these right-wing groups who were illegally funded by the U.S. in an operation run by Oliver North.
Violeta Chamorro [or Violeta Barrios Torres]
Daniel Ortega [or Jose Daniel Ortega Saavedra]
Contras [accept Iran-Contra scandal]  &lt;Dees, History - World&gt;
One battle this dynasty won was named after how slippery the battlefield had become due to the amount of blood spilled. For ten points each:
Name this Muslim dynasty that won the Battle of Sagrajas and conquered the Ghana Empire.
The Almoravids were based in Marrakesh, a city in this modern-day country. This country was also the home of the Almohads and various other Berber tribes.
The Almohad defeat at Las Navas de Tolosa is sometimes considered the "turning point" of this protracted struggle. It ended with a defeat for Boabdil of Grenada at the hands of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella.
Almoravid Dynasty [or Imrabḍen; or Al-Murābiṭūn]
Kingdom of Morocco
Reconquista [prompt on reconquest or unification of Spain]  &lt;Singh, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Members of this ethnic group led an 1852 revolt against the Norwegian government in the city Guovdageaidnu (GUAV-da-gag-nu). For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group who reside in an area known as Lappland in English, despite the fact it is derived from a derogatory name for these people.
The Sami people are well known for herding these animals, which are used to pull sleds called "pulks." In North America, these animals are sometimes called caribou.
Some of the reindeer herded by contemporary Sami have this characteristic. People known as the samosely live in a 30 kilometer zone noted for this characteristic.
Sami [or Samit; or Sabme]
reindeer [or Rangifer tarandus]
they're radioactive due to Chernobyl [or exposed to nuclear fallout; or irradiated; or exposed to radiation; prompt on things like toxic or contaminated]  &lt;Dees, Geography - Europe&gt;
During a trial over his pamphlet <em>The Workers Program</em>, this man quoted the philosopher Friedrich Schelling in his defense against the prosecutor, who was Schelling's son. For 10 points each:
Name this German socialist whose ideas convinced Bismarck to adopt universal male suffrage. The later Gotha Program was modeled on this man's ideas.
Lasalle gained prominence as an activist during the German revolutions of this year, which coincided with other revolutions in France, Austria, and Hungary.
Lasalle was allowed to re-enter Prussia in 1859 thanks to a favor by this luminary, who had earlier written the scientific treatise Kosmos after exploring much of South America.
Ferdinand Lasalle
1848
Alexander von Humboldt [accept Friedrich Wilhelm Heinrich Alexander von Humboldt]  &lt;Alston, History - European&gt;
This structure broke in half while it was being moved from its original location to a town square in 1774. For 10 points each:
Name this Massachusetts landmark which commemorates where the Pilgrims supposedly first landed in 1620. An 1859 ordinance protected it from hammer-wielding tourists.
This governor never mentioned Plymouth Rock in his study of the colony, Of Plymouth Plantation. He was one of the framers of the Mayflower Compact.
This military officer sailed on the Mayflower to Plymouth Colony, where he led expeditions to break up a colony at Merry Mount. There isn't any evidence that he was in a love triangle with John Alden and Priscilla Mullins.
Plymouth Rock [prompt on Plymouth; do not accept or prompt on Plymouth Stone]
William Bradford
Myles Standish [or Miles Standish]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Southward expansion during this dynasty occurred through the <em>don dien</em> system, by which hybrid agricultural-military colonies facilitated rice farming. For 10 points each:
Name this longest-lasting Vietnamese ruling dynasty which reached its height under Thanh Tong, who completed the conquest of the Champa Kingdom.
The Le Dynasty borrowed the practice of don dien from this neighboring Chinese dynasty, which documented its cultural history in a book named for one of its emperors, the Yongle Encyclopedia.
Le Thanh Tong's law code, the Hong Duc, was named for one of these events "of Virtue". Rice crops were often ruined by these events originating from the Mekong River.
Later Le Dynasty [do NOT accept "Earlier Le Dynasty"]
Ming Dynasty
floods [or flash floods; prompt on answers involving water]  &lt;Singh, History - World&gt;
On days when the <em>ekklesia</em>, or assembly, met in Athens, slaves were tasked with flogging anyone found outside of this area. For 10 points each:
Give this Greek term for the main public gathering place in a city. It's the equivalent of a Roman forum.
The ekklesia was held to the southwest of this elevated part of Athens, which housed buildings such as the Parthenon.
One of these buildings was present in the Athenian agora. The oldest of these buildings is likely from Lydia and produced items made from electrum.
agora
Acropolis [or Cecropia]
mints [prompt on answers which refer to coin production; do not accept or prompt on "banks"]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
During the 1920s, this country surpassed the United States as having the largest percentage of foreign-born people in the world. For 10 points each:
Name this country that received a group of people known as harkis in the 1960s.
The harki were some of the people fleeing to France from this North African country. The conflict in this country led to the collapse of France's Fourth Republic.
In the 1930s, refugees fleeing this conflict were placed in French internment camps. The Abraham Lincoln Brigade fought in this conflict, which was between Republicans and Nationalists in an Iberian country.
France [accept French Republic; or République française]
Algeria [or People's Democratic Republic of Algeria]
Spanish Civil War  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the search for El Dorado:
A man with this surname led an expedition with Francisco de Orellana into the Amazon to find El Dorado. His half-brother of the same surname captured Atahualpa while leading the conquest of Peru.
Though he definitely didn't reach El Dorado, this Englishman still wildly exaggerated his finds in his The Discovery of Guiana. He founded a colony whose residents included Virginia Dare.
This explorer, known as "El Loco," had his men affirm him as "the Wrath of God, Prince of Freedom, King of Tierra Firme" on an expedition that searched for El Dorado. He's the subject of a Werner Herzog ("VAIR-nair HAIR-tsog") film.
Pizarro [accept Gonzalo Pizarro or Francisco Pizarro]
Sir Walter Raleigh (The colony is the Roanoake colony.)
Lope de Aguirre [accept Aguirre, the Wrath of God]  &lt;Alston, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Identify the following about war correspondent Marie Colvin, for 10 points each.
Colvin wore an eye patch following an injury sustained covering a conflict in this country. Three children of fashion tycoon Anders Holch Povlsen, the richest man in Denmark, were killed in this country in 2019.
Colvin interviewed this head of state during the Arab Spring. This leader was killed following a NATO invasion of Libya.
Colvin was killed in this city, probably by an attack ordered by Bashar al-Assad. Assad's forces retook this third most populous city in Syria in 2014 following a three-year siege.
Sri Lanka [or Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka]
Muammar Qaddafi [or Muammar Mohammed Abu Minyar Gaddafi]
Homs [accept Emesa or Emisa]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about legendary snakes in African history:
This Egyptian ruler legendarily committed suicide by having a snake bite her to avoid participating in a triumph for Octavian.
This empire was thought to be granted wealth in exchange for annually sacrificing virgins to the seven-headed snake Bida. Koumbi Saleh was the capital of this empire, which was called Wagadu in its own language.
The snake-fish spirit Nyami Nyami, which lives in this river, supposedly attacked in response to the construction of its Kariba dam. This river's valley was ruled by the Mutapa Kingdom, which was subjugated for some time by the Portuguese.
Cleopatra VII
Ghana Empire
Zambezi River [or Zambesi]  &lt;Alston, History - World&gt;
For this event, a wax cast was rotated above the bier so that onlookers could see all 23 stab wounds. For 10 points each:
Name this event from March of 44 BCE, where the aforementioned wax cast so upset an angry mob that they burned down the senate house.
Appian claims this man "stripped the clothes from Caesar's body" and "waved them about ... befouled with the dictator's blood" during the funeral. This man and Cleopatra were defeated at the Battle of Actium.
One of these events during the deification celebration of Julius Caesar was held as a sign that the dictator had in fact been deified and was depicted on coins issued by the Julian family.
Julius Caesar's funeral [accept anything involving the funeral or burial or Gaius Julius Caesar]
Marc Antony [or Mark Antony; or Mark Anthony; or Marcus Antonius]
visitation of a comet  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about feminism in early 20th-century Japan:
Many Japanese feminists campaigned for this right, which was finally granted in 1946 at the insistence of U.S. occupiers. Emmeline Pankhurst campaigned for women to receive this right in the U.K.
Feminist anarchist Noe Itō ("noo-ay ee-toe") translated the writings of this woman, such as The Tragedy of Woman's Emancipation. This friend of Leon Czolgosz ("CHOL-gosh") ran the journal Mother Earth.
One of the first acts of Ito's Red Wave Society was organizing a series of protests in this month in 1921. In China, a 1919 movement named for a day of this month protested Japanese imperialism and the Treaty of Versailles.
the vote [accept answers which refer to voting or suffrage or the franchise]
Emma Goldman
May [accept May Day or May Fourth Movement]  &lt;Alston, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Mercury oxide treatments may have contributed to the need for these things, one set of which incorporated nine parts purchased from "Negroes", possibly the owner's own slaves. For 10 points each:
Name these prosthetic devices, one of which was made by Dr. John Greenwood from hippopotamus ivory.
The museum at this Virginia estate owned by George Washington still has a complete set of one of his dentures.
Washington consumed this substance to relieve his tooth pain. This alcoholic tincture of opium had varieties named for Rousseau and Sydenham ("SID-num").
George Washington's dentures [or George Washington's false teeth; prompt on false teeth or dentures]
Mount Vernon [do not accept or prompt on “Vernon”]
laudanum  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
In the year that this man lost the presidency, John Stormer published <em>None Dare Call It Treason</em>, which argued that pro-Communist elites were causing the US to lose the Cold War. For 10 points each:
Name this candidate who articulated his style of conservatism in the book The Conscience of a Conservative.
This former actor's political career took off with his "A Time For Choosing" speech in support of Barry Goldwater. This President told Mikhail Gorbachev to "tear down this wall!"
The month of the 1964 election, this man published "The Paranoid Style in American Politics," an essay linking Goldwater's brand of conservatism to belief in conspiracy theories.
Barry Goldwater [or Barry Morris Goldwater]
Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]
Richard Hofstadter  &lt;Jose, History - American&gt;
Evariste-Vital Luminais's most successful painting was of two sons of a king of this name floating on a river after their evil mother Bathilde cut their tendons. For 10 points each:
Give this name shared by a Christian convert whom Gregory of Tours called "a new Constantine." A monarch of this name won the 486 Battle of Soissons and bequeathed part of his kingdom to his son Chlothar I.
A Luminais painting shows the last member of this dynasty having his hair cut. Clovis I was a member of this dynasty which was overthrown by a Mayor of the Palace named Pepin the Short.
This son of Pepin the Short was crowned Emperor of the Romans by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day in 800.
Clovis [or Chlodovechus]
Merovingian dynasty
Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I; or Karl der Grosse; or Carlo Magno]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
A Christian missionary in this modern-day country justified the indigenous population's continued practice of the <em>mitote</em> dance as "a good thing to occupy and entertain the Indians". For 10 points each:
Identify this modern-day country, where the mitote dance was once done by Aztec kings.
In the Mexican Dance of the Flyers, a man dances on top of one of these things as four others "fly" around him. New England Puritans disapproved of a spring holiday where people danced around one of these objects.
Tastoanes dances in Mexico occur on this saint's feast day and derive from plays celebrating conquests over the Moors. Visitors to this saint's shrine often put a scallop shell in their hat.
Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
a pole [or maypole]
Saint James the Greater [or Santiago el Mayor; or James, son of Zebedee]  &lt;Bentley, RMP - Judeo-Christian, Bible&gt;
In 2013, the Xi Jinping government cracked down on the practice of giving these items to government officials in expensively decorated boxes. For 10 points each:
Name these baked goods that are traditionally eaten during the Mid-Autumn Festival in China.
Another Mid-Autumn Festival tradition is the lighting of these things. The "sky" type of these objects are made to float into the air like balloons.
Some people celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival by playing a game where they pretend to be one of these figures from Chinese mythology. He Xiangu ("huh shyan-goo") is the only female member of this group.
mooncakes [accept yuèbing]
paper lanterns
Eight Immortals [accept Bāxiān or Pa hsien; prompt on immortals or xian or Taoist gods]  &lt;Bentley, RMP - Other Religion&gt;
In Meiji-era Japan, tens of thousands of young women went to work in factories using this material, making it Japan's largest export commodity. For 10 points each:
Name this material which the Byzantines started making after a smuggling mission under Justinian I.
People in this country staged a boycott of Japanese-made silk products in the 1930s. This country cut off Japanese oil supplies, prompting a surprise attack on it in 1941.
In the early 19th century, this state had a prominent sericulture industry. Eli Terry manufactured clocks in this state, and Simeon North developed an innovative milling machine here.
silk [or silk clothes]
United States of America [or USA; or America]
Connecticut  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Following the An Lushan Rebellion, the Tang government was forced to conduct an unprofitable trade of silk for these creatures with the Uighurs. For 10 points each:
Name these animals whose "heavenly" varieties were found in the Ferghana Valley and were used for mounted cavalry.
Another consequence of the An Lushan Rebellion was a rise in smugglers of this commodity, including by a former merchant of it named Huang Chao. Earlier, half of the Tang's revenues were raised from a state monopoly on this member of the "seven necessities of life."
These people held great sway in the late Tang Dynasty and carried out an 835 purge attempt known as the Sweet Dew Incident.
horses [or warhorses]
salt
eunuchs  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Gurbir Grewal is the first Sikh to hold this position at the state level. For 10 points each:
Give this post held in California by Kamala Harris immediately prior to her being elected US Senator. At the federal level, this post is held by William Barr.
In 2010, Harris boasted of threatening moms with jail time for allowing this action to occur. Officials in Detroit have auctioned off iPods on Count Day to discourage this practice and thus maximize the funding they receive from the state.
In 2017, Harris and 49 other senators opposed the nomination of this sibling of Blackwater USA founder Erik Prince to a cabinet position, necessitating a tie-breaking vote from Mike Pence.
Attorney General [or State Attorney General; or US Attorney General]
truancy [or skipping school; or cutting class; or playing hooky from school; or equivalents about not going to school; or dropping out of school before the legal age]
Betsy DeVos [or Elisabeth Dee DeVos; or Elisabeth Dee Prince]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - U.S.&gt;
This ruler greatly expanded his country's cotton industry, which cratered following the end of the U.S. Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this modernizing khedive of Egypt, the grandson of Muhammad Ali.
Muhammad Ali took control of Egypt following a massacre of these people in the Cairo Citadel. These people, whose name derives from the Arabic for "slave," had previously established a sultanate led by Baybars.
Due to his mounting debts following a failed invasion of Ethiopia, Ismail was overthrown by France and this other European power. Earlier, this country's navy won the Battle of the Nile under the command of Lord Nelson.
Ismail Pasha [or Ismail the Magnificent]
mamluks [accept Mamluk Sultanate]
United Kingdom [accept Great Britain; prompt on England]  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
These creatures were hunted nearly to extinction in World War I due to a Dixon Lanier Merritt limerick that claimed they ate a lot of food. For 10 points each:
Name these birds that started appearing on the state flag of Louisiana around the time hunting had made them rare in the state.
The Imperial Pelican, made for Maria Feodorovna in 1898, was one of the namesake "eggs" that this Russian produced for the court of Tsar Nicholas II.
The uninhabited Pelican Island in this country was incorporated into its capital during a port-building project in the 1950s. This birthplace of the author Kamau Brathwaite is known for the dish of Cou-Cou and Flying Fish with spicy gravy.
pelicans [or Pelecanidae] (The limerick goes: "A wonderful bird is the pelican, / His bill can hold more than his beli-can. / He can take in his beak / Food enough for a week / But I'm damned if I see how the heli-can.")
Peter Carl Fabergé [or Karl Gustavovich Fabergé]
Barbados  &lt;Bentley, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
Gilbert "Hashmark" Johnson was among the first African Americans to enlist in this organization. For 10 points each:
Name this organization which runs Toys for Tots. The radio call sign for the President's helicopter is named for this organization.
The Marines did not accept black enlistees until the signing of Executive Order 8802 by this President, who gave the "Infamy Speech" in 1941 following Pearl Harbor.
Executive Order 8802 was agitated for by this founding president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
United States Marine Corps [accept USMC or The Marines; accept Marine One]
Franklin Roosevelt [accept Franklin Delano Roosevelt; or FDR]
A. Philip Randolph [accept Asa Philip Randolph]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
These items were placed into a "freedom trash can" during a protest at the 1969 Miss America contest. For 10 points each:
Name these undergarments that the New York Post incorrectly reported were burned by feminists during that Miss America demonstration.
Unlike bras, these objects were frequently burned in the 1960s. In United States v. O'Brien, the Supreme Court ruled that David O'Brien could be charged with non-possession of one of these objects after burning one.
O'Brien was attacked by a mob and then arrested after burning his draft card in front of a courthouse in this city. In the 1970s, Louise Day Hicks chaired an organization called ROAR in this city.
bras [or brassiere]
draft cards [or Selective Service Registration Certificates]
Boston [ROAR was involved in the Boston Busing Crisis]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
An analysis of moments called <em>discrimen</em> opens a 2004 book titled for this river by popular historian Tom Holland. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian river which Julius Caesar famously crossed in 48 B.C.
The region of Gaul designated by this adjective was separated from Italia by the Rubicon river. Napoleon later used this adjective to name a republic that he set up as a puppet state in Northern Italy.
This emperor merged the regions of Cisalpine Gaul and Italia, thus removing the Rubicon's status as a boundary. This emperor began the tradition of referring to himself as "Princeps Civitatis" or "First Citizen of the State."
Rubicon River [or Rubico or Rubicone]
Cisalpine [accept Cisalpline Gaul or Cisalpline Republic or Gallia Cisalpina]
Augustus Caesar [accept Octavian or Gaius Octavius Thurinus; do not accept or prompt on "Caesar"]  &lt;Alston, History - European&gt;
One king of this country, Sebastian, was nicknamed "The Desired" after he went missing at the Battle of Alcazarquivir ("ahl-cah-sar-kee-VEER") in Morocco. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose crown passed to King Philip II of Spain in the years following Sebastian's presumed death.
Miguel de Santos, who lived in one of these places, was one of the many men who pretended to be Sebastian following his disappearance. The Rules of Saint Benedict governed the behavior of those living in these institutions.
This future commander of the Spanish Armada commanded troops that ensured the Portuguese crown passed to Philip following the death of Sebastian's successor, King Enrique.
Portugal [accept Kingdom of Portugal or Reino de Portugal or Portuguese Republic]
monasteries [accept abbey or priory or hermitage; accept word forms such as monastic institutions]
Duke of Medina Sidonia [accept Alonso Pérez de Guzmán y de Zúñiga-Sotomayor, 7th Duke of Medina Sidonia]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The Harkin-Engel Protocol aimed to reduce the use of child labor in making this product. For 10 points each:
Name this foodstuff whose production was dominated by Quakers such as Joseph Storrs Fry in the 19th century. A company town in central Pennsylvania is home to a theme park celebrating foods made from this ingredient first cultivated by the Olmecs.
Along with theobromine, chocolate also contains this stimulant alkaloid found in coffee and tea.
Unsweetened cocoa is often included alongside chilis, annatto, and spices in these thick, complex sauces from traditional Mexican cuisine. San Pedro Atocpan is famous for producing these sauces.
chocolate [or cocoa; or cacao; accept chocolate bars and other food derived from chocolate]
caffeine
moles (MOHL-ay) [or mole poblano]  &lt;Kothari, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about Belgian engraver Theodor de Bry:
Despite never having been to the New World, De Bry produced popular engravings of the "cannibals" of this modern-day country biting the legs off their enemies. In the 19th century, this country gained independence from Portugal.
De Bry illustrated scenes from A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies, a text by this Spanish friar who argued for native rights against Juan de Sepúlveda in the Valladolid ("BUY-ah-doh-leed") debate.
De Bry's illustrations contributed to a "legend" described by this adjective that held that the Spanish colonial empire was unique in its atrocities.
Brazil [accept Brasil or Federative Republic of Brazil]
Bartolome de las Casas
black legend [accept leyenda negra]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
A person of this ethnicity, Alonso de Ercilla ("air-SEE-yah"), wrote an epic poem about the conquest of Chile. For 10 points each:
Give this ethnicity of many conquerors and settlers of the New World, some of whom formed the Gipuzkoan ("geez-poo-KOH-ahn") Company in Venezuela.
A Basque named El Cano captained the first circumnavigation of the world after this leader of the voyage was killed on Mactan Island.
Basques fought for control of this city in the so-called Vicuña War of the 1620s. The name of this town, which appears twice in Don Quixote, was a synonym for wealth in the early 17th century.
Basque [accept vascos or euskaldunak; prompt on Spanish]
Ferdinand Magellan [or Fernão de Magalhães; or Fernando de Magallanes]
Potosí  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the exploits of the Women's Freedom League:
The League agitated for women's right to vote in this country. WFL activists chained themselves to a grille in this country's House of Commons in 1908.
WFL leader Charlotte Despard followed this practice that was common among suffragettes. Sylvester Graham founded an American society named for this practice, also followed at the Battle Creek Sanitarium.
The WFL promoted this tactic to pressure the government to granting women the right to vote. John Bampton investigated communities in Essex engaged in this type of protest at the start of the Peasants Revolt.
United Kingdom [or Great Britain; prompt on England]
vegetarianism [or not eating meat; or veganism; or eating plants or equivalents; prompt on things like biological living]
refused to pay taxes [or refusing to pay the poll tax; accept equivalents]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The grave of one member of this family is surrounded by wooden swords, and another member of this family, Yoritomo, won the Battle of Dan-no-ura. For 10 points each:
Name this family of Japanese rulers that defeated the Taira clan in the Genpei War.
Minamoto no Yoritomo was the first Japanese ruler to take this title. These military dictators supplanted the Emperor for several centuries following the rise of the Minamoto.
The Minamoto family established this shogunate which was later dominated by the Hojo clan and fought off two Yuan dynasty invasions of Japan.
Minamoto clan
shogun
Kamakura shogunate [accept Kamakura bakufu]  &lt;Singh, History - World&gt;
Jacinda Ardern spoke at one of this movement's 2017 events, which was the first in the world due to New Zealand's time zone. For 10 points each:
Name this movement which organized millions of people of a certain gender to protest the inauguration of Donald Trump.
In January 2019, the DNC disaffiliated with the Women's March after its organizers declined to denounce anti-Semitic comments by Louis Farrakhan, the leader of this organization.
Though this city's first female mayor, LaToya Cantrell, spoke at its 2018 Women's March, its 2019 march was one of many canceled due to the anti-Semitism controversy.
Women's March [or 2017 Women's March on Washington]
Nation of Islam [or NOI]
New Orleans  &lt;Alston, Current Events - U.S.&gt;
Governor Ross Barnett gave an incendiary speech at this institution in the lead-up to a riot that killed a jukebox repairman. For 10 points each:
Name this institution where US Marshals ran out of teargas defending its Lyceum building in a 1962 riot that killed a French journalist.
This Civil Rights Activist and leader of the March Against Fear was the first to integrate the University of Mississippi.
This Attorney General sent the Marshals to protect Meredith. He was assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan after winning the California Democratic primary in 1968.
University of Mississippi [or Ole Miss]
James Meredith [or James Howard Meredith]
Robert F. Kennedy [or Bobby Kennedy; or RFK; or Robert Francis Kennedy]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Parliament repeatedly refused to allow Charles Bradlaugh, one of these people, to take his elected office. For 10 points each:
Name these people who were granted certain rights in the 1961 case of Torcaso v. Watkins. Madalyn Murray O'Hair founded a magazine named for these types of people in America.
In 1697, student Thomas Aikenhead was hanged in this city for his atheist views. Another man's career at the university in this city was hampered by critiques of the atheistic tendencies in his A Treatise of Human Nature.
The number of Americans who ascribe to no religious beliefs is now larger than the number who belong to this church whose members included John F. Kennedy.
atheists [accept American Atheist Magazine; accept things like non-believers in God; do not accept "agnostic"]
Edinburgh (the man was David Hume)
Roman Catholic Church [or Catholicism; prompt on Christianity]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Bucket shops, which were largely outlawed in the 1920s, combined these institutions with gambling dens. For 10 points each:
Name these institutions, the largest of which emerged from the Buttonwood Agreement of 1792 in Manhattan and is owned by a holding company that also controls Euronext.
Bucket shops were made possible thanks to the stock ticker, a device popularized by this prolific inventor of the first mass-market incandescent light bulb.
Bucket-shop patron Jesse Lauriston Livermore made a killing shorting this company, which merged with phonograph company Victor in 1929. This company developed the NBC radio network and sold the world's first televisions.
stock exchange [or securities exchange; or stock market; or capital market; or commodities exchange; or commodities market; accept New York Stock Exchange or NYSE]
Thomas Edison [or Thomas Alva Edison]
RCA [or Radio Corporation of America; or RCA Victor]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
The otherwise inward-looking Qing government set up a consulate in this city in 1873 to monitor the half million Chinese who had moved there. For 10 points each:
Name this city-state on the Malay Peninsula that modernized under Lee Kuan Yew.
In 1873, a Qing commission investigated the poor conditions of Chinese workers in this country, where a monument in its capital honors Chinese who fought against colonial authorities in its Ten Years' War.
In the 19th century, some Chinese immigrants joined secret societies of this name based on neighborhood or family connections. Today, this English term refers to organized crime groups like those that dominated Kowloon Walled City.
Singapore [or Republic of Singapore; or Republik Singapura]
Cuba [or Republic of Cuba]
triads [or Triple Union Society; prompt on things like the Chinese mafia]  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
In the US, the Capron Mill produced many of these things, which were among the first examples of ready-to-wear clothing. For 10 points each:
Name this type of clothes, which were usually colored gray when worn by Confederates.
This color gets its name from being used in one country's military uniforms throughout the Napoleonic Wars. This shade, sometimes named for Paris or Turnbull, was created by Johann Dippel while attempting to alchemize gold.
An 1847 postage stamp printed in Prussian blue by the British in this colony is now one of the most valuable to stamp collectors. Dutch colonists named this country for the stadtholder who succeeded William the Silent.
military uniforms [accept answers mentioning military or army clothes]
Prussian blue [or Belin blue; prompt on blue]
Mauritius [or Republic of Mauritius; or République de Maurice; or Repiblik Moris]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
An 1889 play staged in the town of Meerut portrayed one of these languages as having "stayed too long in the jungle" and symbolized the other as a woman of low moral character. For 10 points each:
Name these two languages that are very similar despite one being written with an Arab-Persian script and the other with the Devanagari ("deh-vuh-NAH-guh-ree") script.
The "correct" Hindi broadcast on All-India Radio was so purged of Urdu words that this first Indian Prime Minister complained he couldn't understand it.
A Scientific Terms Society was established in 1916 to purge this other language of Sanskritic words. The attempted imposition of Hindi over this language led to 1965 riots in Madurai.
Hindi and Urdu [or Modern Standard Hindi and Modern Standard Urdu; prompt on partial answers]
Jawaharlal Nehru [or Pandit Nehru]
Tamil  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about European mercenaries:
Mercenaries from Genoa were known for using this type of weapon, which proved ineffective against English longbows at the Battle of Crécy.
Mercenaries such as John Hawkwood who fought in Italy were known by this Italian-language term.
During the American Revolutionary War, the British hired these German mercenaries who were named for the German state they originated from. A leader of these people named Johann Rall failed to prevent George Washington's attack on Trenton.
crossbows [prompt on bow or bow and arrow]
condottiere [accept condottiero]
Hessians [accept Hesse-Kassel or Hesse-Hanau]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
<em>Da'wah</em> missions sent by this caliphate's ruler al-Moezz converted many people in Khorasan ("CORE-uh-sahn") to Isma'ilism. For 10 points each:
Name this Shi'a caliphate which ruled Egypt from the 10th through 12th centuries.
After the Fatimids were weakened by the intrigue of the vizier Shawar ("shuh-WAHR") and the invasions of Amalric of Jerusalem, a ruler from this dynasty sent his general Shirkuh ("SHEAR-kuh") to seize Egypt. This dynasty's namesake founder conquered Edessa, sparking the Second Crusade.
Shirkuh was the uncle of this Kurdish ruler, who succeeded him and ruled Egypt as its first Ayyubid monarch. This famously chivalrous king dealt with the Third Crusade.
Fatimid caliphate ("FAH-tih-mid") [accept Fatimid dynasty]
Zengid dynasty [accept Imad ad-Din Zengi]
Saladin [accept Salah ad-Din Yusuf ibn Ayyub; accept Yusuf ibn Ayyub; prompt on al-Malik an-Nasir]  &lt;Alston, History - World&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about horrible methods of execution employed by Chinese emperors:
According to historian Sima Qian ("sih-mah ch'yen"), Qin Shi Huangdi ("chin shur hwong-dee") executed 460 scholars in this specific manner and burned thousands of their books.
Another method of execution was to pull the victim apart by attaching them to two of these horse-drawn vehicles, which were widely used in ancient warfare.
This method of execution, reserved for the worst enemies of the state, was finally outlawed by the Qing in 1905. Missionary Auguste Chapdelaine ("aw-GOOST shop-duh-LEN") was killed by this method, whose English name gives rise to a phrase describing a failure which results from many small problems.
burying them alive [accept live burial or equivalent answers indicating burying a living person; accept interring for "burial"; prompt on burying or interring]
chariots [prompt on cars]
death by a thousand cuts [accept slow slicing or lingchi; prompt on cuts; prompt on slow process]  &lt;Alston, History - World&gt;
During an action orchestrated by this man, Mansour bin Muqrin was killed when his helicopter was shot down in an escape attempt. For 10 points each:
Name this man who placed several wealthy political opponents under house arrest at a Ritz-Carlton hotel in 2017.
Mohammad bin Salman is the royal heir and most powerful man in this Middle Eastern monarchy, which granted women the right to drive in 2018.
The Saudis partnered with this Japanese company, run by Masayoshi Son, to establish the massive Vision Fund for tech investing. This company's huge investments in firms such as Uber and WeWork may be contributing to a general tech bubble.
Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud [accept MBS; prompt on Mohammad; do NOT reveal this answer otherwise, but prompt on Saud; do not accept or prompt on "Salman" or “bin Salman”]
Saudi Arabia [accept Kingdom of Saudi Arabia or as-Saʿūdīyah]
SoftBank [accept SoftBank Group Corp.]  &lt;Minarik, Current Events - World&gt;
This man proclaimed, "My God, I've shot myself!" after accidentally switching an empty pistol with a loaded one while defending Thomas McGehan. For 10 points each:
Name this Democratic politician, a leader of the Copperheads whose treason sentence was commuted by President Lincoln.
While in exile in Canada, Vallandigham ran for Governor of this state. Ulysses S. Grant was one of five Union veterans born in this Buckeye State who was elected President.
Vallandigham responded to this man's General Order Number 38 with a speech attacking "King Lincoln." This commander at Fredericksburg led the Army of the Potomac after George McClellan and before Joseph Hooker.
Clement L. Vallandigham [accept Clement Laird Vallandigham]
Ohio
Ambrose Burnside [accept Ambrose Everett Burnside]  &lt;Singh, History - American&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the intersection of popular music and European politics:
In 2018, youthful protestors in this country petitioned parliament with the slogan "We Dance Together, We Fight Together" after raids on nightclubs. Fifteen years earlier, pro-Western protestors staged its Rose Revolution.
One of the signals of the coup that started this country's Carnation Revolution was the performance of a song in the 1974 Eurovision competition.
The Singing Revolution led to the independence of three countries commonly named for this body of water. Peter the Great sought to gain control of this sea by founding Saint Petersburg as a port on it.
Georgia [or Sakartvelo]
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic]
Baltic Sea [accept Baltic States; anti-prompt on the Gulf of Finland]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Connie Field directed a 1980 documentary titled for this character that profiled women such as Wanita Allen. For 10 points each:
Name this "riveter" who was the archetype of female industrial workers during World War II.
Rosie the Riveter is often conflated with the woman wearing a polka dot do-rag, flexing her bicep, and saying this four word phrase on a poster designed by J. Howard Miller.
The "We Can Do It" poster was seen by just a few thousand workers at this company until its rediscovery in the 1980s. This company once owned CBS and is named for the man who invented the air brake.
Rosie the Riveter
"We Can Do It!"
Westinghouse Electric Company [or Westinghouse Electric Corporation; accept Westinghouse Air Brake Company; accept George Westinghouse]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
The 1909 Tragic Week in Barcelona followed an attempt to impose this policy in Catalonia. For 10 points each:
Give this type of policy, exemplified by the levée en masse during the French Revolutionary Wars. In South Korea, it applies to men between ages 18 and 28.
Soldiers fired into a crowd on Easter Monday, 1917 during this country's violent Conscription Crisis. Henri Bourassa led a minority population during that conscription crisis in this country.
In 1944, several conscientious objectors were recruited into a controversial starvation experiment named for this US state.
conscription [or military draft; or mandatory military service; prompt on military service or equivalents]
Canada [or Dominion of Canada]
Minnesota  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about New Christians, Jews who had converted to Christianity following the Reconquista:
In Portugal, New Christians such as Beatriz de Luna amassed fortunes by controlling the trade of these goods, which gave the Moluccas an alternate name.
To prevent an exodus of New Christians, King Manuel I agreed to not import this institution into Portugal for at least 20 years after the forced conversion. In Spain, Tomas de Torquemada headed this organization.
Charles V created the Office of Marrano Affairs in this city to prevent New Christians from escaping his domains. This city was home to the world's first stock exchange building.
spices [accept peppers; accept the Spice Islands]
Inquisition [accept Spanish Inquisition or Tribunal of the Holy Office of the Inquisition; do not accept or prompt on "tribunal"]
Antwerp [accept Antwerpen]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
During his people's freedom struggle, this leader fought the Bush War against the Rhodesian regime. For 10 points each:
Name man who renamed Rhodesia as Zimbabwe after taking over as prime minister in 1980.
Mugabe killed members of this ethnic group in a campaign called the Gukurahundi. This ethnic group is the second largest in Zimbabwe after Mugabe's Shona people.
Mugabe overthrew the white settler regime of this man, the last prime minister of Rhodesia. After Zimbabwean independence this man remained Leader of the Opposition to Mugabe until 1987.
Robert Mugabe [or Robert Gabriel Mugabe]
Ndebele people [or Northern Ndebele; accept Matabele; accept Mthwakazi]
Ian Smith [or Ian Douglas Smith]  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
Identify the following about New York City's Chinatown in the late 19th century, for 10 points each.
A popular nighttime activity was playing this game, where players bet on how many coins would be left after a dealer put a fistful of coins onto the table and removed by four until there were four or fewer remaining.
White-owned newspapers vilified the Chinatown "dens" named for this drug. China fought two wars named for this drug.
Collection boxes were set up in Chinese-run businesses to support the presidential campaign of this man, who voted against the Chinese Exclusion Act in the Senate. The Billion Dollar Congress passed the McKinley Tariff during his presidency.
fan tan [or yanqian; or tanqian; or yiqian]
opium [or poppy tears; accept opium dens or Opium Wars]
Benjamin Harrison  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Conspiracy theories held that this ruler became a hermit named Feodor Kuzmich after his mysterious death from typhus in Taganrog. For 10 points each:
Name this tsar, the first one advised by liberal statesman Mikhail Speransky. This tsar conquered Finland and granted a constitution to Poland.
Through his father Paul, Alexander I was the grandson of this enlightened Empress of Russia who oversaw the partitions of Poland.
In the confusion following Alexander's death, liberal army officers led this revolt against his more reactionary successor Nicholas I.
Alexander I [or Aleksandr Pavlovich]
Catherine the Great [accept Catherine II of Russia or Yekaterina Alekseyevna; accept Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst; prompt on Catherine or Yekaterina]
Decembrist revolt [accept Decembrist uprising]  &lt;Raje, History - European&gt;
This field was the subject of the best-known text of Pomponius Mela. For 10 points each:
Give this subject, which names a work by Strabo that draws from information gathered by Artemidorus.
The geographer Eratosthenes of Cyrene compared the length of the sun's shadow at noontime in two different locations to calculate this distance, which he figured was around 250,000 stades. It's actually about 25,000 miles at the equator.
Julius Solinus is derisively known as this man's "ape" for how much Solinus ripped off this man's writings on geography. This author of the Natural History was killed watching the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius.
geography [accept Geographica]
circumference of the Earth
Pliny the Elder [or Gaius Plinius Secundus; prompt on Pliny]  &lt;Bentley, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
This country's first prime minister Tunku Abdul Rahman was forced to resign following race riots against its Chinese minority. For 10 points each:
Name this country which gained full independence shortly after it was the site of a guerrilla war called the "Emergency" in which Commonwealth forces fought communists led by Chin Peng.
Malaysia fought an undeclared conflict called the Konfrontasi with this country over control of Borneo. This country gained independence from the Netherlands under its founding father Sukarno.
In 1955 Sukarno hosted this meeting which led to the creation of the Non-Aligned Movement of countries remaining neutral during the Cold War.
Malaysia [prompt on Malaya]
Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia; or Republik Indonesia]
Bandung Conference [accept First Afro-Asian Conference]  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
Acts named for this good that were enacted in 1700 and 1721 limited its sale in England, a move that encouraged the growth of the English textiles industry. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of cloth woven in southern India, which was called chintz when it had printed designs.
Calico was introduced to England by this company, which had factories at Madras and Bombay. Before the Sepoy Rebellion, this company effectively ruled India.
The British East India Company won divani, or tax-collecting rights in this province of the Mughal empire, which produced massive amounts of cotton in the Ganges-Brahmaputra delta.
calico [accept caliyan]
British East India Company [accept Honourable East India Company or BEIC, prompt on East India Company or EIC]
Bengal [accept West Bengal or East Bengal; do not accept or prompt on “Bangladesh”]  &lt;Dees, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
State and local governments across the country are facing revenue shortfalls due to "dark store loopholes" reducing funds collected through these measures. For 10 points each:
Name these levies that are frequently used to fund school districts.
In 2018, 24 towns in this state held local referenda to close the dark store loophole. Scott Walker lost his bid to be re-elected as this state's governor in the same year.
Walker's administration offered significant tax benefits to this company to build a large LCD plant in Mount Pleasant. This company's CEO Terry Gou may have pulled out of the deal after Wisconsinites Paul Ryan and Reince Priebus resigned.
property taxes [or millage rate; prompt on taxes]
Wisconsin
Foxconn [or Foxconn Technology Group; or Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd.]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - U.S.&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about medieval historian Lynn White:
White wrote that the Middle Ages were "full of beans" since legumes were often planted to fix nitrogen in the soil as part of this system of crop rotation, in which some part of fields would lie fallow.
White argued that "shock combat" became possible with the invention of the stirrup, which allowed soldiers who used these animals to stay on them more easily.
White cited the shifting of technological innovation from southern Europe to northern Europe to argue against this Belgian historian, whose book Medieval Cities claims that the rise of Islam was the main cause of the Middle Ages.
three-field system [accept any answer that indicates the notion of using three different fields to grow crops; prompt on multiple fields or equivalents]
horses
Henri Pirenne  &lt;Jose, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
These people celebrate fighting alongside the British at the 1818 Battle of Koregaon. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose rights were championed by the Self-Respect Movement. B.R. Ambedkar was a member of this group and encouraged many of them to convert to Buddhism.
In 1931, E. V. Ramasamy sought to gain entry for people of lower castes to the Guruvayur Temple in this modern-day Indian state. This state in the country's southwest emerged from Travancore-Cochin.
This activist argued that the Guruvayur Temple should be open to lower castes only during certain hours, after which the temple must be ritually purified. He also led the Salt March.
Dalit people [accept Untouchables or Scheduled Castes; prompt on Other Backward Castes]
Kerala
Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi; or Gandhi ji; or Bapu]  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
The Falls Fight and the Great Swamp Fight were skirmishes in this conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict ended by the 1678 Treaty of Casco Bay. Mary Rowlandson wrote a captivity narrative during this conflict.
Native Americans who were known by this adjective were interred at Deer Island during King Philip's War. This adjective also describes towns like Nantucket designated for converted Native Americans in Massachusetts.
A Native American known to the English as James the Printer published the first full book of this type in the American colonies. King James I lends his name to a version of this religious text.
King Philip's War [accept Metacom's War or Metacomet's War or Pometacomet's Rebellion or Metacom's Rebellion; prompt on First Indian War]
praying [accept praying Indians or praying towns]
Christian Bible [accept English Bible or King James Bible]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Juan Manuel Santos established a program called BIO to study the biological diversity of regions newly opened to research thanks to a peace agreement signed with this group. For 10 points each:
Name this guerrilla group. In 2016, voters narrowly defeated a referendum that would have ratified a peace agreement with this group.
FARC is a guerilla group based largely in the jungles of this Latin American country. Ivan Duque governs this country from Bogota.
The Colombian government has sought Cuba's assistance in catching Nicolas "Gabino" Rodriguez, the head of this other guerrilla group that has not signed a peace deal.
FARC [or FARC-EP; accept but DO NOT REVEAL Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia-Ejército del Pueblo or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia-People's Army]
Colombia [or Republic of Colombia]
ELN [or National Liberation Army; or Ejército de Liberación Nacional]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
From 1563 to 1783, an English law made it a hanging offense just to be one of these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people, whose "English history" was told in a recent book by David Cressy. A flag for these nomadic people incorporates the wheel from their characteristic wagons.
Mid-18th century London was abuzz with talk of the Roma community after the sensational trial of Elizabeth Canning, who was defended by this man. This novelist also founded the Bow Street Runners, sometimes called London's first police force.
Roma people were expelled from this Italian city in 1493. This most populous city in northern Italy was once ruled by the Sforza family.
Roma [accept Romani; or Romany; or travelers; or Egyptians; accept gypsy or gypsies]
Henry Fielding
Milan [or Milano]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the follow about capitals of the Roman Empire which are not Rome:
This city became the capital of the Ostrogothic Kingdom after Odoacer overthrew the last Western Roman Emperor, Romulus Augustulus.
In 330 C.E. this city was made the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire and was named after its founder, who had earlier convened the First Council of Nicaea.
This member of the tetrarchy moved the capital of the Western Roman Empire to Mediolanum, which is now Milan. This emperor failed to depose his son, who was defeated by Constantine I at the Battle of the Milvian Bridge
Ravenna
Constantinople [prompt on Byzantium; do not accept or prompt on "Istanbul"]
Maximian [or Marcus Aurelius Valerius Maximianus Herculius Augustus]  &lt;Jose, History - European&gt;
The temporary peace achieved under this man's leadership did not last under the rule of his brother Opechancanough (oh-pech-uh n-KAH-noh), who committed the Indian Massacre of 1622. For 10 points each:
Name this Native American weroance, or chief, whose daughter possibly intervened at the last minute to save an Englishman from execution.
This first permanent English settlement in the Americas experienced hardships like conflict with the Powhatans and the so-called "Starving Time," but its fortunes turned with the introduction of tobacco by John Rolfe.
This harsh governor of Virginia fought the First Anglo-Powhatan War and names a state whose border is defined by the Twelve-Mile Circle.
Powhatan [or Wahunsenacawh; or Powatan; or Pohetan; or Poughwaton; or Wahunsenasawk; or Wahunsenacock; or Wahunsenakah; accept Powhatan Confederacy; prompt on Mamanatowick]
Jamestown [or Jamestown Colony; prompt on Colony of Virginia]
Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr [accept either underlined answer; accept Delaware]  &lt;Suh, History - American&gt;
For much of the 20th century, this country claimed it was practicing a form of "separate development". For 10 points each:
Name this country which implemented the Pass Laws Act in 1952 to enforce restrictions on internal migration.
In 1955, the African National Congress and its allies drafted this document that claimed "The People Shall Govern!" and "All National Groups Shall Have Equal Rights!"
The first post-apartheid Constitution of South Africa was promulgated under this president who spent much of 27 years in prison at Robben Island.
South Africa [or Republic of South Africa]
Freedom Charter
Nelson Mandela [or Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela]  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Until recently, drinking this beverage often had lower class connotations because only farmers could regularly consume it before it spoiled. For 10 points each:
Name this beverage. Adulterated "swill" versions of this drink killed thousands of children in New York in the 1850s.
Milkmaids tended to not contract this disease because they had been exposed to a less deadly variant in cows. Edward Jenner developed a vaccine for this disease.
This city was the first in the United States to require that milk be pasteurized. Around the same time, Isham Randolph organized an effort to reverse its namesake river to clean up its drinking water supply.
cow's milk
smallpox
Chicago  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
In this program, children who were "racially pure" were abducted and given to "Aryan" families to be raised. For 10 points each:
Give the German name of this Nazi program, many of whose records were destroyed before the end of the war. It means "Fount of Life."
During this country's Dirty War, children were secretly taken by the state and raised by families that supported the right-wing dictatorship of Jorge Videla.
Large numbers of children from this ethnic group were abducted after massacres carried out by forces loyal to Efraín Ríos Montt in Guatemala. Rigoberta Menchú, a member of this indigenous group, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1992.
Lebensborn
Argentina [or Argentine Republic]
Maya [accept K'iche' Maya; prompt on indigenous peoples or Native Americans or Indians]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Identify the following about pioneering African American prosecutor Eunice Carter, for 10 points each.
Carter worked closely with Thomas E. Dewey when Dewey was still a Manhattan special prosecutor. Dewey would later be defeated by this man in the close presidential election of 1948.
Carter helped prosecute this mobster, an early associate of Meyer Lansky who was the first head of the Genovese family. He later supposedly helped in the Allied invasion of Sicily.
Carter was appointed to the Committee on Conditions in Harlem by this mayor who presided over the 1939 New York World's Fair and once destroyed a pinball machine with a sledgehammer.
Harry S. Truman
Lucky Luciano [or Charles Luciano; or Salvatore Lucania; or Charlie Luciano]
Fiorello LaGuardia [or Fiorello Henry La Guardia; or Fiorello Enrico La Guardia]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
In 1607 there were only 550 European men living here, and its main port had silted over. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country where Spanish treasure was hauled overland. Vasco Núñez de Balboa crossed its namesake isthmus to spot the Pacific Ocean.
Some of the only formal institutions in Panama were five of these establishments, which dominated the economy of colonial Lima. Donadas tended to be people of high social class who lived in these places.
For the most part, Panama did not develop this system of drawing tribute from native populations which was popular in the rest of Spanish America before the passage of the New Laws.
Panama [or Republic of Panama]
convents [or nunnery; prompt on monastery or abbey or priory]
encomienda  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Stanislaw Sosabowski ("soh-sah-BOV-skee") was blamed for the failure of an operation in this country after he didn't parachute his forces into battle due to heavy fog. For ten points each:
Name this country, the site of the failed Operation Market Garden, which aimed to capture nine bridges that would be used for an Allied invasion of Germany.
In 1940, the Netherlands was invaded by Germany on the same day as this neighboring country, the site of the Ardennes Forest.
The Netherlands was ruled by this monarch during both World Wars. This monarch reportedly told Kaiser Wilhelm II that Dutch dikes were 10 feet high after the Kaiser bragged about his seven foot tall soldiers.
The Netherlands [accept Nederlands; prompt on Holland]
Belgium [accept Kingdom of Belgium or Royaume de Belgique or Königreich Belgien or Koninkrijk België]
Queen Wilhelmina [accept Wilhelmina Helena Pauline Maria]  &lt;Singh, History - European&gt;
This leader introduced the second National Policy on Education as part of his policy of improving high-tech industries. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian prime minister who was assassinated in 1991 during a campaign for re-election, several years after angering Tamil rebels by preventing a coup in the Maldives.
Gandhi's mother Indira ruled during this period which began when she suspended democratic processes after a court ruled that she violated campaign finance laws.
Indira Gandhi ordered an invasion of this modern-day country after it was devastated by Operation Searchlight during its independence struggle against Pakistan.
Rajiv Gandhi [or Rajiv Ratna Gandhi; prompt on Gandhi or R. Gandhi]
the Emergency
Bangladesh [or People's Republic of Bangladesh; accept Gônoprojatontri Bangladesh]  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
This woman's wedding was delayed for an hour because guests were berating Felix Frankfurter for his decision in the <em>Gobitis</em> case. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who won a Pulitzer for her memoir, Personal History, which includes details from her time owning the Washington Post.
Graham agreed to publish the Pentagon Papers, a secret history of the US's involvement in this conflict.
This group staged a break-in of Lewis Fielding's office to try to find dirt on Pentagon Papers leaker Daniel Ellsberg. This group headed by E. Howard Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy got their name for attempting to stop leaks from the Nixon White House.
Katharine Graham [accept Katharine Meyer Graham]
Vietnam War [accept Second Indochina War]
White House Plumbers [accept Nixon Plumbers]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Husks of this crop dating back to the 9th millennium BCE have been found in sites of the Cishan culture. For 10 points each:
Name this crop likely domesticated by farmers in Northern China. This crop's foxtail variety was legendarily introduced by Emperor Shennong.
This other important food crop in China can be grown in two periods each year in the Nanling Mountains. It is often grown in paddies and terraces.
These vehicles are part of an annual festival in which rice dumplings are made with family members. Legendarily, the first instance of a race of these vehicles was when citizens of Ying tried to save the poet Qu Yuan from drowning himself in the Miluo River.
millet [accept more specific forms of millet such as foxtail millet or Job's tears; do NOT accept or prompt on "sorghum" or "teff"]
rice [accept more specific forms or rice like wild rice]
dragon boat [accept Duanwu; prompt on boat]  &lt;Xie, Geography - World&gt;
This organization's low priority on news coverage in its early days was exemplified by the broadcast, "Good evening, today is Good Friday. There is no news." For 10 points each:
Name this British radio broadcaster which has been run under a royal charter since the 1920s.
The pro-Nazi propaganda broadcasts of this man, born William Joyce, prompted the BBC to make its news programs more interesting. He opened his broadcasts with "Germany calling, Germany calling."
Joyce was a member of the British Union of Fascists, which was led by this politician who was jailed in 1940 for his Nazi sympathies.
BBC [accept British Broadcast Corporation or British Broadcasting Company]
Lord Haw-Haw
Oswald Mosley [accept Sir Oswald Ernald Mosley of Ancoats]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Identify the following about Bancroft-winning historian Edmund Sears Morgan, for 10 points each.
In Morgan's book titled for the crisis following the passage of this legislation, Morgan profiles Daniel Dulany, author of the most widely-read pamphlet criticizing this act. A Declaration of Rights and Grievances drafted in response to this legislation attacked the use of Admiralty Courts.
Morgan's book The Puritan Dilemma is subtitled for "the story of" this man, who coined the term "a city upon a hill" in his sermon "A Model of Christian Charity".
John Winthrop was one of the founders of this colony, which was centered around Salem and Boston in its namesake state.
Stamp Act of 1765 [accept Duties in American Colonies Act 1765]
John Winthrop
Massachusetts Bay Colony  &lt;Rosenberg, History - American&gt;
This family set up shop on a barge in Lake Malaren after they were barred from building factories in populated areas. For 10 points each:
Name this family whose member Emil was killed in a September 1864 factory explosion.
The Nobels made their fortune manufacturing this product from a combination of kieselguhr and nitroglycerine. This product shouldn't be confused with TNT.
As a young man, Alfred Nobel went to America and worked under John Ericsson, best known for designing an early one of these things. Gustavus V. Fox helped secure funding for 56 of these things built by the Union during the Civil War.
Nobel
dynamite [prompt on Nobel's Blasting Powder]
ironclad warships [or Monitors; prompt on armored warships; prompt on warships; prompt on boats]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Two teams that played the hip-based version of this game were brought back to Spain by Hernan Cortes to demonstrate it to Charles V. For 10 points each:
Give the common English name of this game prevalent throughout Mesoamerica. The Aztecs imported large quantities of rubber to create equipment used in this game.
Murals in this city demonstrate a version of the ball game played with sticks. The Avenue of the Dead connects most of the great pyramids in this city, which collapsed some time in the 1st millennium CE.
Seventh century CE rulers of this city adopted the title of "ball player" when they took the throne of this Maya city in modern-day Chiapas.
Mesoamerican ball game
Teotihuacan ("tay-oh-tee-WAH-kan")
Palenque ("pah-LANE-kay")  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
A gate in this city called the "Buland Darwaza" was built to celebrate its founder's conquest of Gujarat. For 10 points each:
Name this city that once housed a building for religious disputation called the "Ibadat Khana." The Panch Mahal complex in this city are the remains of a large palace.
Fatehpur Sikri was built by this Mughal emperor. This ruler chose to rebuild its tomb of the Sufi Salim Chisti in thanks for the birth of his son.
Akbar commissioned a tomb for his father Humayun which contains a large charbagh garden system and is near this city's Purana Qila or Old Fort. A rust-resistant Iron Pillar is located near this city's Qutub Minar.
Fatehpur Sikri ("FAH-tay-poor SICK-ree")
Akbar the Great [accept Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbar, or Jalaluddin Muhammad the Great; or Abu'l-Fath Jalal-ud-din Muhammad Akbar; or Akbar I; or Akbar-i-azam]
Delhi [do not accept or prompt on "New Delhi"]  &lt;Dees, Fine Arts - Architecture&gt;
A contemporary critic called this building "a monumental political argument". For 10 points each:
Name this highlight of the Universal Exposition which was saved from destruction after it was put to use broadcasting radio signals.
A replica of this building was constructed for the Universal Exposition. The storming of this prison fort in 1789 is the symbolic start of the French Revolution.
One of the main attractions of the Universal Exposition was one of these devices contained within a 60 meter steel tube. A large one of these devices in Wisconsin is in a building named for Charles Yerkes and was built on behalf of George Ellery Hale.
Eiffel Tower
The Bastille [or Bastille Saint-Antoine]
refracting telescope [prompt on observatory]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The losing commander of this battle later succumbed to a cannonball during the Battle of Rain. For 10 points each:
Name this battle, the first of two in which the Count of Tilly and the Swedish King Gustavus Adolphus met. It was a major victory for the Protestants.
The Battle of Breitenfeld was a turning point in this war, which began in 1618. It is often divided into "Bohemian," "Danish," "Swedish," and "French" phases.
John George I ("the first"), the ruler of this state, was forced to ally with Gustavus Adolphus after his lands were invaded by Tilly shortly before Breitenfeld.
Battle of Breitenfeld [accept First Breitenfeld; prompt on Battle of Leipzig]
Thirty Years War
Saxony [accept Electorate of Saxony or Sachsen]  &lt;Jose, History - European&gt;
This leader instituted the policy of Françafrique, using his country's close alliance with France to maintain political stability. For 10 points each:
Name this longtime leader of Côte d'Ivoire who names a peace prize given out by UNESCO.
Under Houphouët, Côte d'Ivoire's economy was largely based on cocoa and this other cash crop. A Brazilian period in the late 19th century was named for this crop and milk.
Houphouët moved the capital from Abidjan to Yamoussoukro, where he built the world's largest one of these religious buildings. Despite its size, that building of this type is not a cathedral as it is not the seat of a bishop.
Félix Houphouët-Boigny [or Papa Houphouët]
coffee [or café; accept Café com leite]
church [or Roman Catholic church; or minor basilica; accept Basilica of Our Lady of Peace]  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
In a speech at the University of Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso, this politician announced his intention to permanently restore some art to African countries within the next five years. For 10 points each:
Name this man elected as President of France in 2017.
In 2017, the Nigerian government requested that a Boston museum return bronzes it received from the family that owned this firm. Stefano Massini wrote a play about this Wall Street firm that collapsed in September 2008.
In 2016, this African country's president, Patrice Talon, requested that bronzes in the British Museum that share their name with this country be returned. This country shares a border with Togo.
Emmanuel Macron [or Emmanuel Jean-Michel Frédéric Macron]
Lehman Brothers [or Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.]
Benin [or Republic of Benin]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
In the 1860s, ships from this country sailed to Polynesia to abduct laborers through a practice known as "blackbirding". For 10 points each:
Name this country that needed workers for its profitable guano mines. A president of Japanese ancestry fought against the Shining Path in this country.
Beginning in 1865, many Solomon Islanders were blackbirded to work on the cotton plantations on this island. The Leonidas brought the first indentured Indian laborers to this country where Sir Arthur Gordon established indirect rule.
Blackbirding also was used to fill labor shortages in Queensland, now the third-most populous state in this country.
Peru [accept Republic of Peru]
Fiji [accept Republic of Fiji; or Viti]
Australia [accept Commonwealth of Australia]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
The victors of this conflict drew inspiration from the Enlightenment ideas of their compatriot Rigas Feraios, who was assassinated a century earlier in Belgrade after an attempted revolt. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th century conflict during which Missolonghi was besieged three times. An alliance led by Edward Codrington won a naval battle at Navarino in this conflict.
Greek forces fought for independence from this empire based in Istanbul.
During the war, the regions of Moldavia and Wallachia were freed from the rule of Greek Phanariotes after Alexander Ypsilantis led this secret society in a failed revolt against Ottoman rule.
Greek War of Independence [accept word forms, accept Greek Revolution or Greek Uprising; accept Agonas; do not accept "Greek Civil War"]
Ottoman Empire
Filiki Eteria [accept Society of Friends or Friendly Society]  &lt;Husar, History - European&gt;
Some migrants have been known to burn their fingertips to avoid having them recorded in a system of identification named for this city. For 10 points each:
Give this city that names a regulation specifying which EU country is responsible for handling asylum claims.
Between 2015 and 2016, the number of migrants coming into the EU by sea decreased by two thirds thanks to an agreement the EU signed with this country headed by Recep Erdogan.
The migrant experience was fictionalized in this Pakistani-born novelist's 2017 book Exit West, where the protagonists use doors to transport from a war-torn country to Mykonos, London, and California. He also wrote The Reluctant Fundamentalist.
Dublin, Ireland
Turkey [or Republic of Turkey]
Mohsin Hamid  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - World&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the career of Stephen Langton, who, among other accomplishments, is credited with dividing the Bible into chapters:
Langton served in this post from 1207 to 1228. This was the highest post held by 16th century politician Thomas Cranmer, author of the Book of Common Prayer.
Langton possibly wrote parts of this landmark document, which was agreed to by King John in 1215 at Runnymede and guaranteed certain rights to rebellious barons.
This pope placed England under an interdict after King John refused to recognize Langton as archbishop. This man decreed the Fourth Crusade and called the Fourth Lateran Council.
Archbishop of Canterbury [prompt on archbishop]
Magna Carta [or Magna Charta; or Great Charter; or Magna Carta Libertatum; or The Great Charter of the Liberties]
Innocent III [or Innocentius III; or Lotario dei Conti di Segni; or Lothar of Segni; prompt on Innocent]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The Portuguese term for ships hauling people of this status was <em>tumbeiros</em> or "coffin bearers." For 10 points each:
Brazil was the final destination for about 40% of all people of what status brought to the New World?
Escaped Brazilian slaves formed communities of this name. The largest community of this type, Palmares, at one point had twice the population of Rio de Janeiro.
The term quilombo originally referred to sites of initiation in this modern-day country, where the Portuguese set up slave trading forts on the Cuanza River. The MPLA and UNITA fought in this country's bloody civil war.
enslaved people [accept anything involving slaves or slavery; prompt on Africans]
quilombos ("kee-LOHM-boos") [accept kilombo]
Angola [accept Republic of Angola]  &lt;Bentley, History - Cross, Historiography, and Miscellaneous&gt;
Haverford College professor Bill Davidson staged a break-in of a field office of this organization during the night of the first Ali-Frazier fight. For 10 points each:
Name this law enforcement organization, led at the time by J. Edgar Hoover.
The 1971 break-in exposed this program, which sought to expose and discredit groups like the American Indian Movement and the Black Panthers. This program also targeted Martin Luther King, Jr.
Just before the break in, this man invited Davidson to meet with him after hearing rumors Davidson was planning to kidnap him. This National Security Advisor controversially won the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize.
FBI [accept Federal Bureau of Investigation]
COINTELPRO [accept Counter Intelligence Program]
Henry Kissinger [accept Henry Alfred Kissinger; or Heinz Alfred Kissinger]  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
A suppression of this religion from 841 to 845 freed some 150,000 slaves owned by monasteries of this religion. For 10 points each:
Name this religion traditionally held to have been brought to China from India during the rule of Emperor Ming of Han.
Wendi, the first ruler of this short-lived dynasty, declared himself a Cakravartin King to defend his massacre of 59 princes from a rival house in the name of Buddhism.
This Chinese ruler widely distributed copies of the Great Cloud Sutra, which predicted a reincarnation of the Maitreya, and sponsored Buddhist cave temples at Longmen. The court of this one-time huanghou frequently traveled to the eastern city of Luoyang.
Buddhism [accept Mahayana Buddhism]
Sui dynasty
Empress Wu [accept Wu Zeitan; or Wu Zhao; Wu Hou; or Tian Hou; or Empress Consort Wu]  &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
This man's crackdown on alcohol consumption led to a 41% drop in suicide rate among men. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet leader who introduced the Law on Cooperatives as part of his economic reforms.
Gorbachev's dismissal of Dinmukhamed Kunaev led to the Joltoqsan riots in this modern-day country. The USSR's first atomic bomb test took place in Semipalatinsk in this country.
Gorbachev's government also had to deal with protestors in Ukraine rallying in 1988 on the second anniversary of this nuclear disaster that left the town of Pripyat a ghost town.
Mikhail Gorbachev [or Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev]
Kazakhstan [or Republic of Kazakhstan]
Chernobyl disaster [or Chernobyl accident]  &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Identify the following about some ballot initiatives from the 2018 midterm elections, for 10 points each.
For the second time in three years, voters in Washington state rejected a tax named for this element that would have reduced the state's greenhouse gas emissions.
Voters in this city rejected a proposal to make it the first major American city to establish a public bank. This West Coast city is home to Snap, and its mayor is Eric Garcetti ("gahr-SET-tee").
Five states passed measures granting additional rights to these type of people, modeled on a 2008 California bill known as Marsy's Law. Marsy's Law guarantees these people a right to be notified of proceedings.
carbon [accept carbon tax]
Los Angeles [accept LA or Santa Monica]
crime victims [or the families of victims of crime; accept equivalents; do not accept or prompt on criminals]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - U.S.&gt;
Jumpers were people who repeatedly served in this role, deserting after each enrollment. For 10 points each:
Name these people who, as per the 1863 Enrollment Act, could be sent to fight for the Union in place of men who paid a $300 commutation fee.
About 500 members of the gentry in this state sent enslaved people as substitutes during the Revolutionary War. Thomas Jefferson was a wartime governor of this state.
In his dissent in Afroyim v. Rusk, this Supreme Court justice pointed to the 1865 Enrollment Act which denationalized deserters to justify stripping citizenship. He was the grandson of the dissenter in Plessy v. Ferguson.
substitutes
Virginia [accept Commonwealth of Virginia]
John Marshall Harlan II  &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
This leader's Southern Tour helped him gain support for his economic liberalization policies. For 10 points each:
Name this Paramount Leader of China who forcibly suppressed the Tiananmen Square protests.
This dissident and literature professor returned to China to support the Tiananmen Square protests. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010 while imprisoned and passed away in 2017.
Deng presided over the handover of this British colony to China by promising "One Country, Two Systems" to maintain this colony's existing administrative system.
Deng Xiaoping [or Teng Hsiao-p'ing]
Liu Xiaobo
Hong Kong [or Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China]  &lt;Raje, History - World&gt;
This region contains much cinnabar, which made it useful in extracting a certain precious metal through the patio process. For 10 points each:
Name this “mercury mountain” in a namesake region and city in Peru.
Huancavelica was reasonably close to this Bolivian city with world’s largest silver deposit, containing up to 70% ore in spots, which was the main source of wealth for its colonizer in the 1600s.
Potosi and Huancavelica were both part of this colonial empire following its conquest of much of South America.
Huancavelica
Potosí
Spain [accept Spanish Empire or España] &lt;DM&gt;
These entities are defined as being made before 1500. For 10 points each:
Name these oldest books made using the printing press.
The most famous of the incunabula are the 42-line Bibles made by this printer, the inventor of the printing press.
Prior to the printing press, books were made with decorations, initials, and illustrations, often using gold or silver foil, lending them to be called this type of manuscript.
incunabula
Johannes Gutenberg
illuminated &lt;DM&gt;
This city is the oldest state capital in the US. For 10 points each:
Name this second oldest continually-inhabited European settlement in the US. Its construction was completed in 1610.
Santa Fe contains the San Miguel Chapel, one of these locations throughout the American Southwest where the Spanish attempted to convert Indians to Catholicism.
This man was the founder of Santa Fe de Nuevo Mexico and built Santa Fe. He also ordered the Acoma Massacre and was so brutal in the Acoma War that he was banished from New Mexico for life.
Santa Fe
Catholic missions
Juan de Oñate &lt;DM&gt;
En Garde! Name some famous bodyguard units, for 10 points each:
Although they could die, this elite Persian heavy infantry unit gained its nickname from Herodotus since if any one soldier fell he would be immediately replaced.
These bodyguards of the Ottoman Sultan were originally composed of Christian slave boys captured through devshirme. They eventually became immensely powerful and were disbanded after an 1826 revolt.
This elite unit of Napoleon’s Grande Armee was his personal bodyguard and final reserve troops. Napoleon refused to use them at the Battle of Borodino, which many historians believe cost him the Russian campaign.
The Immortals
Janissaries
Imperial Guard &lt;BL&gt;
Time for some agricultural history, but the bad parts. For 10 points each:
Following the eruption of Mount Tambora, global temperatures dropped by an average of 0.7 Celsius, leading to the last widespread famine of Europe. The year 1816 was thus given this name.
This famine resulted from blight destroying a type of tuber, the staple crop of a European island country. People fleeing it came to the US in large numbers.
A famine in this region of northeastern British India occurred during 1943 in World War II, worsened by wartime policies.
Year Without a Summer [accept Poverty Year or 1800 and Froze to Death]
Irish Potato Famine [accept partial answer; accept Great Famine or Great Hunger]
Bengal &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following about Tule (“TOO-lee”) Lake.
Tule Lake is at the northern end of this state, north of its Central Valley, which contains Sacramento.
Tule Lake was critical in the territory of this Native American tribe, which was destroyed in a namesake 1872-73 war under the leadership of Captain Jack.
Tule Lake was also one of the residential sites in this governmental program, ordered by Executive Order 9066, which also took place at other sites throughout the West such as Manzanar.
California
Modoc
Japanese internment [accept reasonable equivalents, prompt on partial answer] &lt;DM&gt;
. For 10 points each, answer some questions about quotes on the topic of the Fifth Column.
In this man’s film Meet John Doe, the main character is told that “this fifth-column stuff is pretty rotten, isn't it?” This Italian-American director of It’s a Wonderful Life also served as head of the Directors Guild of America.
In a 1940 speech, this British prime minister stated that, “Parliament has given us the powers to put down Fifth Column activities with a strong hand.”
After a 2015 attack by Al-Qaeda on this French satirical newspaper, Nigel Farage claimed that Europe had “a Fifth Column living within our own countries.”
Frank Russell Capra [also accept Francesco Rosario Capra]
Winston Churchill
Charlie Hebdo &lt;EL&gt;
This group attacked the Ethiopian army in Jigjiga and held its headquarters at Buuhoodle. For 10 points each:
Name this group, who founded a namesake state under Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, often called the “Mad Mullah.”
The Darwish movement was one of the first states in this country on the horn of Africa, which has been in a state of complete chaos since Siad Barre was overthrown in 1991 in Mogadishu.
The Darwish movement was defeated in 1920 by this country’s Somaliland Campaign. Along with Italy, this country then ruled part of modern Somalia until 1960.
Darwish movement/state [accept Dervish movement/state, accept Halgankii Daraawiishta]
Somalia
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [accept Britain or England] &lt;CO&gt;
An outbreak of this disease in the Democratic Republic of the Congo followed a famous outbreak in West Africa in 2014. For 10 points each:
Name this filovirus which causes hemorrhagic fever and can have a fatality rate of 90%. A nonvirulent type of this virus is named for Reston, Virginia.
Another species of filovirus is a virus named after this town in Germany, where it was first discovered when researchers were infected from green monkeys. This town was also the site of a “colloquy” (“CALL-uh-quee”) between Ulrich Zwingli and Martin Luther.
A likely natural reservoir for Ebola Viruses and Marburg Viruses are these mammals of order Chiroptera.
Ebola virus
Marburg
fruit bats &lt;DM&gt;
Russia has a lot of enemies. Answer some questions about one of them, for 10 points each:
This former FSB officer and Russian defector wrote the book “Blowing Up Russia: Terror from Within” and coined the term “mafia state.” He was poisoned and died in London in 2006.
While Litvinenko was in the hospital, he claimed that this man was the cause of his illness. This man is the current President of Russia.
Litvinenko was found to have been poisoned by the 210 isotope of this element. This highly rare radioactive element was discovered by Marie and Pierre Curie and is named for Marie’s home country.
Alexander Valterovich Litvinenko
Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin
polonium [accept Po] &lt;EL&gt;
Its borders were planned to stretch from Arkhangelsk to Astrakhan, in part following geopolitical theory of its time. For 10 points each,
Name this nation which started World War II and planned a massive territorial expansion under Adolf Hitler.
Nazi plans for expansion were driven by this concept of Germanizing and settling in newly conquered lands, which literally means “living space.”
Lebensraum would have been necessary for Nazi Germany to reach this economic condition of isolation and self sufficiency, marked by a lack of trade.
Nazi Germany [Accept Third Reich, prompt on partial]
lebensraum
autarky &lt;BL&gt;
These people were at the heart of the Jeffersonian ideal. For 10 points each:
Name this profession, whose primary goal is to use land to grow crops, and who felt oppressed by 19th century railroad monopolies forcing them to pay exorbitant prices to ferry their goods.
At the end of the 19th century, farmers turned to the Populist, party, which had as one of its main tenets a move towards this economic philosophy that argued for an expansive monetary supply at the expense of inflation.
The Silverites’ demands were partially met by this 1890 act, shepherded through the Senate by a famous Civil War general’s brother, which authorized the U.S. government to buy large amounts of a certain metal.
farmers [accept synonymous answers]
Free Silver [accept bimetallism]
Sherman Silver Purchase Act of 1890 [prompt on partial answer] &lt;PO&gt;
Donald Trump announced that his plans to meet with this group at Camp David were off after a wave of violence. For 10 points each:
Name this Afghan terrorist group. They came into conflict with the United States after sheltering Osama bin Laden.
Previously, the US had helped negotiations between the Taliban and this current Afghan president, who succeeded Hamid Karzai in a disputed 2014 election.
One of the main supporters of Trump’s negotiations with the Taliban was this current Secretary of State, formerly Director of the CIA and Representative from Kansas.
the Taliban [accept the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan; prompt on students]
Ashraf Ghani
Michael Richard Pompeo &lt;PO&gt;
These people, under Yelü Dashi, moved to Central Asia and formed an eponymous “Kara Khanate.” For 10 points each:
Name these people, originally from Manchuria, who began that khanate after defeating the Karakhanids and capturing Balasagun. These people’s name is the origin of the historic name “Cathay” for China.
The Khitans had ruled a dynasty of this name in northern China before being expelled by the Jin Dynasty. This name also partially names the peninsula containing Port Arthur and Dalian and partially names the Chinese province with capital Shenyang.
The Khitans also waged a war with the Goryeo Dynasty of this region now split at the 38th parallel.
Khitans
Liao [accept Liaoning or Liaodong]
Korea &lt;DM&gt;
The Inca civilization was home to many emperors throughout its history, including a dispute as to which one is the “last” one. For 10 points each,
Name this potentially last emperor of the Inca state, the son of Huayna Capac, who was born in Ecuador and won the Battle of Quipaipan prior to entering Cajamarca (“ca-ha-MAR-ca”).
This other emperor was the last emperor of the Neo-Inca state, a rump state of the original Empire and the last independent Incan state. He shares his name with a rapper who tried to rival the Notorious B.I.G. in the 1990s.
A man of this name followed by “Capac” is generally considered to be the first emperor of the Inca. Another man of this name was the last Incan emperor to rule from Cusco, installed by the Spanish after Atahualpa's death.
Atahualpa
Túpac Amaru
Manco &lt;DM&gt;
This bonus is about the early Byzantine Empire, but not Justinian! For 10 points each:
The Byzantine Empire was centered around this city on the Golden Horn at the western side of the Bosporus.
The Byzantine Empire went through periods characterized by this belief, the opposition to the use of religious images.
During this decade, the Arabs besieged Constantinople for the second time. This decade also marked the beginning of the Umayyad conquest of Hispania.
Constantinople
iconoclasm
710s &lt;DM&gt;
Let’s go back to medieval England and France! For 10 points each:
This French king, son of Adela, took back much of England’s territory in modern day France at the Battle of Bouvines and planned an invasion of England, though these plans were scrapped. He also waged the Albigensian Crusade.
This empire, starting in England and eventually stretching from Scotland to the Pyrenees was ruled by Henry the Second and his successors before Philip the Second of France won the Anglo-French war.
King John of the Angevin Empire had to sign this charter after a failed attempt to reconquer Normandy and Touraine. This charter granted numerous rights and liberties to the barons and church and stated that the ruling monarch of England was not above the law.
Philip II [accept Philip Augustus or Philippe Auguste]
Angevin Empire
Magna Carta Libertatum [accept Great Charter] &lt;BKC&gt;
“Richmond is a Hard Road to Travel” is a Confederate Civil War song detailing all of the failed Union attempts to take Richmond. For 10 points each:
“The contraband was right when he said that they would fight” refers to the enlistment of these people, especially following the Emancipation Proclamation. They still dealt with segregation and racism in Union ranks.
“Wooly-horse” in the song refers to this man, who led the earliest Shenandoah Valley campaign. He is more well known as for exploring the Pacific Northwest in the 1840s and as the first Republican presidential candidate.
The song states that “[this general] bold and gay, set forth the shortest way, by Manassas.” That campaign’s failure came with this general’s defeat at the First Battle of Bull Run.
freed slaves [accept equivalents like freedmen; prompt on African-American people or any equivalent]
John C. Fremont
Irvin McDowell &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about Brexit.
To avoid the hardening of the border between this constituent country and its southern neighbor, a backstop has been arranged. This constituent country’s capital is Belfast.
In March 2017, Theresa May triggered an article of this number to begin Brexit. In the Treaty of the European Union, the article of this number lets any country withdraw if they wish to do so.
Theresa May said that the UK after Need it would not become a permanent member of this group of countries who can participate in the EU single market. Norway and Iceland are members of this group not in the EU.
Northern Ireland [do not accept “Ireland” or “Republic of Ireland”]
Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union
European Economic Area &lt;BKC&gt;
This palace has a full 1441 rooms and contains the “Roman Ruin.” For 10 points each:
Name this Baroque palace first created by Leopold I, replacing the previous hunting lodge and small palace created by Eleonora Gonzaga. It was painted a characteristic shade of cream yellow.
Name this longest reigning Emperor of Austria, born in the Schonbrunn Palace. He died in 1916 and was the first emperor of a unified Austria-Hungary.
The Schonbrunn palace is in this city, still the capital of Austria.
Schonbrunn Palace
Franz Josef I [prompt on Franz Josef]
Vienna &lt;DM&gt;
Name the following about the four “dogs of war” of Temujin Borjigin, for 10 points each:
Jebe first caught Temujin’s attention after fearlessly saying that he had shot him in the neck during Temujin’s unification of their common people, this ethnic group. Temujin took the title Genghis Khan after unifying them.
This general and his brother Jelme were two other “dogs.” This general defeated the Jin Dynasty and led the Mongol invasion of Europe with Batu Khan. He conquered the most land of any single general in history.
This name was shared by the final dog of the four and with the Mongol ruler who launched a failed invasion of Java in 1293. That latter man succeeded Möngke in his highest post.
Mongols [do not accept or prompt on “Mongolians” because that is a nationality, not ethnic group]
Subotai Bagatur or Subotai the Valiant [accept Sübedei, Sübügätäi, Sübü’ätäi, and anything similar]
Kublai [accept Hubilai or Qubilai] &lt;DM&gt;
How do you know a place exists if you’ve never seen it with your own eyes? For ten points each:
Name this joke conspiracy about a small city in Germany being a hoax created by either the CIA, Mossad, or aliens.
Bielefeld was home to a notable one of these buildings. Dorothea Dix advocated for these buildings’ inhabitants.
Bielefeld was also home to a notable school of social historians. One subset of social history, African-American history, is celebrated every year in this month, the shortest of the year.
Bielefeld Conspiracy
mental asylum [accept synonyms like psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]
February &lt;BL&gt;
Name these medieval rulers with interesting eponyms. For ten points each:
This French king rebelled against his father Charles VII in the Praguerie and later fled to Burgundy. He ended the Hundred Years’ War with the Treaty of Picquigny and took much of Burgundy after Charles the Bold’s death.
This English king from Wessex came to the throne at the age of 12 and, despite his name meaning noble counsel or advice, was known as “the Ill-Advised” or “the Unready”
This first Carolingian Frankish king drove the Moors out of France after his father’s victory at Tours and made a namesake donation of some Lombard land to the pope.
Louis the Universal Spider [accept Louis XI, Louis the Prudent, or Louis the Cunning; prompt on partial answer]
Æthelred II
Pepin the Short or Pepin III [prompt on partial answer] &lt;JH&gt;
This time, you won’t need to specify that your answer is the “second” of these African wars! For 10 points each:
This “Great War of Africa” was fought between 1998 and 2003 and included the deposition and subsequent assassination of Laurent-Desire Kabila. It ended with a power-sharing agreement between two branches of the Rwandan RCD, the Ugandan MLC, and Joseph Kabila’s AFDL.
This conflict in the British Cape Colony pitted namesake Dutch-ancestry people in the northeast of the country with the British around the turn of the 1900s. It included the world’s first concentration camps.
This conflict set up an eventual election in 2005, which Ellen Johnson Sirleaf won.
Second Congo War
Second Boer War
Second Liberian Civil War &lt;DM&gt;
This initiative was foreshadowed in its main proponent’s use of “Happy Days Are Here Again” in the 1932 Presidential Election. For 10 points each:
Name this initiative of Franklin Delano Roosevelt from 1933-6, responding to the Great Depression through projects aimed at relief, recovery, and reform. It included many programs, such as the TVA and Social Security.
This New Deal Program had an Indian Division, the IECW, which employed Native American men to do jobs to improve infrastructure and land quality in reservations. It also helped train Native men to be skilled laborers.
Prior to the New Deal, Hoover also attempted to address the Great Depression through federal construction projects, most notably this one that created Lake Mead.
New Deal
Civilian Conservation Corps
Boulder Dam [accept Hoover Dam] &lt;DM&gt;
. This event was described by Theodor Mommsen and Edward Creasy as a turning point in world history. For 10 points each:
Name this battle, in which Arminius decisively defeated the Roman army.
This man, the first Roman Emperor, was emperor at the time of the disaster.
In the aftermath of that battle, this nephew of Tiberius became leader of the Roman forces stationed behind the Rhine; his successes led to allegations of foul play upon this man’s death at a young age.
Battle of the Teutoburg Forest [accept Varian Disaster]
Imperator Caesar Divi Filius Augustus [accept Gaius Octavius Thurinus; accept Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus; prompt on Caesar]
Germanicus Julius Caesar &lt;PO&gt;
How many Triple Alliances do you know? For 10 points each:
The Aztec Triple Alliance around Lake Texcoco included their capital (Tenochtitlan), the namesake of the lake (Texcoco), and this third state.
The War of the Triple Alliance resulted in this country’s destruction after its defeat by Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. It was led by Antonio Solano Lopez and has capital at Asuncion.
This country left the Triple Alliance in World War I. It later fought 12 battles along a certain river at its border.
Tlacopan
Paraguay
Italy &lt;DM&gt;
This writer’s father Franklin became the first person to manufacture wooden oil tanks. For 10 points each:
Name this writer who wrote a 19 part book on the company that eventually put Franklin out of business, often called the inventor of investigative journalism.
Tarbell and other journalists of her time were given this derisive nickname by Theodore Roosevelt. These people tended to run attacks on established leaders and businesses to arouse anger in the public.
Tarbell’s main work was her History of Standard Oil, detailing the shady dealings of Standard Oil, led by this man. He was the richest man in American history, but, like Andrew Carnegie, gave much of his money to charity.
Ida Tarbell
muckrakers
John D. Rockefeller &lt;DM&gt;
This tax was levied originally only on “People of the Book.” For 10 points each:
Name this tax levied on most dhimma, or non-Muslims, the counterpart of the zakat.
During this dynasty, Akbar ended the jizya tax in his efforts to promote religious harmony in India. This dynasty ruled India between the early 1500s and mid 1800s.
This 6th Mughal ruler reinstated the jizya tax and expanded the empire to its largest extent. He deposed his father Shah Jahan.
jizya
Mughal Dynasty [accept Mogul; accept reasonable alternatives for “dynasty”]
Aurangzeb [accept Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad or Alamgir] &lt;DM&gt;
Throughout history, Paris and its surroundings have been the site of many international agreements and treaties. For 10 points each:
This war was officially ended by the 1783 Treaty of Paris, but hostilities had mostly ended with Charles Cornwallis’ surrender at Yorktown.
Nearly every country in the world signed the Paris Climate accords in 2015, except for two—Syria and this country, led by Daniel Ortega from 1979 to 1990 and again from 2007 to the present.
After World War I, many treaties were signed to officially end hostilities after the armistice in 1918, including the Treaty of Versailles and this 1920 treaty, named after a palace in Versailles, that dismembered the Kingdom of Hungary.
American Revolutionary War [prompt on any answer that involves revolution or independence but not America, e.g. Revolutionary War or War of Independence; accept American War of Independence]
Republic of Nicaragua
Treaty of Trianon &lt;PO&gt;
Let’s go take a walk through some lovely gardens! For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese city notable for its Humble Administrator’s Garden and canals on Lake Tai.
This palace’s name translates to “without worry” and features extensive terraced vineyards; the gardens were initially designed by Frederick the Great himself.
This French palace in the outskirts of Paris was created by Louis XIV, with extensive formal gardens created by Andre de Horte. Its Hall of Mirrors was the site of many notable treaties.
Suzhou (“soo joe”)
San souci
Versailles &lt;BL&gt;
This republic opposed Ottoman hegemony in the Balkans for centuries but was finally conquered by Napoleon. For 10 points each:
Name this republic along the eastern coast of the Adriatic. The modern name of its capital is Dubrovnik.
Ragusa is currently in this country with capital Zagreb, the newest to join the EU.
Ragusa lies in this coastal region of the northern Balkans, encompassing much of Croatia, where Diocletian made a palace in Split.
Republic of Ragusa
Republic of Croatia [accept Republika Hrvatska]
Dalmatia &lt;DM&gt;
This country’s World Cup jersey, with an eye-catching green and white striped pattern, sold over 3 million copies. For 10 points each:
Name this African country with capital Abuja. Other cities in this country include Ibadan and Lagos, which is split between a main island and a new town on the mainland.
Violence has erupted in Lagos over the reelection of this man who was accused of hiring a Sudanese actor or a clone to cover up his illness. He was previously Nigeria’s military dictator from 1983 to 1985.
Before being President, Buhari worked for this military dictator. This dictator had human rights activist Funmilaya Ransome Kuti thrown out of a window, and he spearheaded planning for Abuja.
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Muhammadu Buhari
Olusegun Mathew Okikiola Aremu Obasanjo &lt;AJ/PO&gt;
How many capitals of Japan are there? Only one. Nevertheless, there have been many ancient capitals of Japan. For 10 points each:
This city names a period following the Asuka and was the first Japanese capital built in the Tang Chinese style. It was also the first permanent capital of Japan, before Nagaoka.
The Nara period was followed by a period named after this city, now in the Osaka-Kobe metropolitan area.
From Kyoto, the imperial capital was moved to Edo, which is now this modern capital of Japan.
Nara
Kyoto or Heian-kyo
Tokyo &lt;DM&gt;
The Republican River is not named after the Republican party or the American Republic, but rather for a band of Pawnee Indians nicknamed “Republicans.” For 10 points each:
Those Indians lived along the Republican as it passed through Nebraska and this state. The Republican is a tributary of this state’s namesake river, on which lies its capital, Topeka.
Following the Louisiana Purchase, the Republican Pawnee were swayed towards American allegiance by this explorer, who also names a prominent peak near Colorado Springs.
On a tributary of the Republican, this tribe suffered a devastating defeat at the Battle of Beecher Island, in which their leader Roman Nose died. They’re not the Arapaho, but they had previously separated into Northern and Southern portions in 1832.
Kansas
Zebulon Pike
Cheyenne [accept Tsêhéstáno] &lt;DM&gt;
Prior to the giving of his speech accepting the Republican nomination, this man’s supporters booed off Nelson Rockefeller, who associated them with KKK members and Communists. For 10 points each:
Name this ultra-conservative 1964 Republican nominee for president, who lost in a landslide to Lyndon B. Johnson. His campaign nevertheless set up the start of the modern Republican control of the South.
Goldwater’s acceptance speech was quite controversial, most notably for him saying that “[this concept] in defense of liberty is no vice.”
While many Republicans held back from supporting Goldwater, Ronald Reagan gave this speech in support of him a week before the election. Known often just as “The Speech,” it propelled Reagan into national prominence.
Barry Goldwater
extremism [do not accept anything except the exact answer]
“A Time for Choosing” &lt;DM&gt;
Name some things about the first Persian invasion of Greece, for 10 points each:
This 490 B.C. battle from the Persian invasion of Greece saw a decisive victory for the Greeks on a namesake plain by the sea.
This Greek tyrant was the father of Hippias, one of the generals who partially led the Persian army at Marathon.
Peisistratos was the ruler of this ancient Greek city, and the Battle of Marathon was between Persia and the citizens of this city.
Battle of Marathon
Peisistratos [accept Pisistratus]
Athens &lt;EC&gt;
This empire was a branch of the Yuezhi confederation. For 10 points each:
Name this multiethnic empire which ruled Bactria at around the same time as the Roman Empire. Its emperors included the Buddhist patron Kanishka the Great.
One capital of the Kushan Empire was the city now known as Peshawar, which is located by this historic mountain pass between Pakistan and Afghanistan.
The Kushan Empire first used this ethnic group’s language, who earlier ruled a namesake nearby kingdom. Megasthenes was an ambassador of this ethnic group, and Alexander the Great began this ethnic group’s conquests of Asia.
Kushan Empire
Khyber Pass
Greek [prompt on Macedonian or Hellenistic; accept Hellenic] &lt;CO&gt;
Achtung-Panzer! For ten points each:
Name this German field marshal who wrote a book of that name, a pioneer of mobile warfare. He overwhelmed French defenses at Sedan but was defeated at the Battle of Moscow.
It’s not the Tiger, but towards the end of the war, Guderian’s troops might have used this model of medium tank, which succeeded the Panzer IV.
This word, although never a formal doctrine, has been used by historians to refer to the “lightning” speed of mechanized German warfare early on in the war.
Heinz Guderian
Panther [prompt on Panzerkampfwagen V Panther; accept Sonderkraftfahrzeug 171]
Blitzkrieg [prompt on Lightning War] &lt;BL&gt;
Time to learn about the Seljuks! For 10 points each:
The Seljuks were of this ethnic group, shared by the rulers of the later Ottoman Sultanate. The modern country named after this ethnic group has capital at Ankara.
One faction of the Seljuks splintered from the main empire and created this sultanate in Anatolia after defeating the Byzantines at Manzikert in 1071. At its height, it had its capital at Konya, or Iconium.
The Seljuks displaced many people of this ethnicity, who then established a namesake kingdom in Cilicia. These Christians then allowed the First Crusade to pass through their new land.
Turks [accept Turkic; do not accept or prompt on “Turkish,” because that is a nationality, not ethnic group]
Sultanate of Rum
Armenians &lt;DM&gt;
Answer the following about homosexuality in Ancient Greece. For 10 points each:
The term “lesbian” derives from Lesbos, due to it being the home of this supposedly bisexual poet of the “Ode to Aphrodite.”
This elite unit of the Theban military, which consisted of 150 pairs of male lovers, was often thought to be invincible until it lost to Philip of Macedon’s army at the Battle of Chaeronea.
Alexander the Great had an intimate relationship with this member of his personal bodyguard, about whom he once said: “He too is Alexander.” After his death, Alexander asked an oracle to grant this man divine status.
Sappho
Sacred Band of Thebes
Hephaestion &lt;CO&gt;
Name some things about the Vikings’ farthest raids.
Hastein attacked the city of Luna in this country by pretending to die and getting brought into the city in his coffin. He later sacked Pisa, also in this country.
Leif Ericson named three regions he discovered west of Greenland, including Vinland, modern-day Newfoundland. Name either of the other two regions.
The Vikings also attacked the Black Sea by travelling along this river after some portage in Russia. This river travels through Kiev.
Italy
Markland or Helluland
Dnieper &lt;DM&gt;
After the US took over this archipelago, it dealt with a Moro insurgency for the next 14 years. For 10 points each:
Name this archipelago with capital Manila that the US took in 1898 in the Spanish-American War. The US returned it to native sovereignty in 1946, following Douglas MacArthur’s liberation of it during WWII.
This first president of the Philippine Republic was ousted by the American troops in 1901 and previously led the anti-Spanish revolt. He later lost the first election of the Commonwealth of the Philippines to Manuel Quezon.
This first Governor-General of the Philippines resigned to become Secretary of War under Theodore Roosevelt. He aimed for interracial cooperation for expedited self-government, a view opposed by his predecessor, the military governor Arthur MacArthur Jr.
The Philippines
Emilio Aguinaldo
William Howard Taft &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about American axe murderers.
This woman committed the Fall River Axe Murders and contrary to popular belief, it was her stepfather that she killed, not her father. A popular children’s rhyme states that she gave him “forty whacks.”
The “Axeman” of this city was a serial killer whose identity is still not known. In this city, Marie Delphine LaLaurie killed many of her slaves in her mansion in the French Quarter.
The Axeman of New Orleans allegedly sent a letter claiming that he would fly over the city and kill anyone who wasn’t in an establishment playing this type of music.
Lizzie Andrew Borden
New Orleans
jazz <EL>
This colony was first based on the ports of Assab and Massawa. For 10 points each:
Name this colony solidified after the Treaty of Wuchale. It contained over 75,000 settlers from its colonizer, and its capital was recreated as the ideal modern city.
Italy's trickery in the Treaty of Wuchale and subsequent attempt to expand south were ended at this 1896 battle won by Menelik II. It resulted in Menelik’s country being one of only two African states to resist colonization successfully.
Menelik II, victor at Adwa, hailed from this Coptic Christian country with capital Addis Ababa.
Italian Eritrea
Battle of Adwa [or Adowa]
Ethiopia &lt;DM&gt;
Name these things related to post-World War II economic booms, for 10 points each:
Name this adjective used to describe the three decades of post-war economic recovery and growth in France.
This iconic, diminutive sedan was a symbol of the German economic recovery and later of the Hippies. Many children play a game involving punching each other when they see one of these cars.
An alternative to the Marshall Plan that helped spark Europe’s economic recovery was one named after a Secretary of the Treasury of this name, who advocated the deindustrialization of Germany. Another person with this name was the Ottoman Ambassador for the US during the Armenian Genocide and its most prominent opponent.
Glorieuses [Accept Glorios]
Volkswagen Beetle [prompt on buggy or Volkswagen]
Morgenthau &lt;BL&gt;
You’re fired! For 10 points each, name some former members of Donald Trump’s cabinet.
This former Secretary of State was the CEO of ExxonMobil before being nominated to the Cabinet. He was dismissed by Trump and replaced by Mike Pompeo in March 2018.
This former Alabama senator was the former Attorney General before resigning in November 2018. Luther Strange was appointed to take this person’s vacant Senate seat before he contested a primary with Roy Moore.
This former Secretary of Veterans Affairs was, unusually for a Trump appointee, confirmed unanimously. However, he was fired in March 2018 for using department funds for himself on a trip to Europe.
Rex Tillerson
Jefferson Beauregard “Jeff” Sessions
David Shulkin &lt;BC&gt;
The British fleet was hampered in flight by a thunderstorm, eventually surrendering this city to the Americans, but General Guy Carleton managed to escape capture. For 10 points each:
That event occurred in this city, then the largest in Canada, which lies primarily on an island in the St. Lawrence River. It is now still the largest city in Quebec.
This general led the American advance on Montreal, later dying in the assault on Quebec City. A city named after him was the site of a boycott lasting 381 days.
Prior to reaching Montreal, Montgomery besieged and defeated a British garrison at this fort south of Montreal. The 45-day siege slowed the American advance and weakened the army on its journey through Canada.
Montreal
Richard Montgomery
Fort St. Jean-sur-Richelieu [accept Fort St. Johns] &lt;DM&gt;
. The first of these wars resulted in the Transcontinental Treaty. For 10 points:
The second one of these wars was started with a refusal of a namesake Native American tribe to leave the reservation at Lake Okeechobee.
Many Seminoles, along with other tribes like the Creek and the Cherokee, were forced to leave their homeland and travel this sadly named trail to Oklahoma.
It’s not Micanopy, but this general, who fought in the Second Seminole War, was captured by Jesup after arriving under a white flag of truce and shot Wiley Thompson and six others outside Fort King.
Seminole Wars [prompt on Florida Wars; anti-prompt on First Seminole War, Second Seminole War, or Third Seminole War; do not accept or prompt on “Seminole War”]
Trail of Tears
Osceola [accept Asi-Yahola or Billy Powell] &lt;BKC&gt;
Time to see how much you know about East Asian naval battles. For 10 points each:
In this last stand of the Korean navy, Admiral Yi Sun-Sin defeated a Japanese fleet of over 10 times his size with only 13 ships, destroying half the Japanese fleet. It is widely regarded as his greatest victory.
The Battle of Yamen, the final Mongol victory in their conquest of the Song Dynasty, was fought off the coast of this southernmost province in mainland China, also known for being the home of Cantonese food.
The Battle of Red Cliffs occurred just before the start of this time period and resulted in Cao Cao being unable to gain land south of the Yangtze. A “Romance” named for this time period is one of the Four Classics of China.
Battle of Myeongnyang
Guangdong
Three Kingdoms &lt;DM&gt;
The Treaty of Karlowitz ended this war. For 10 points each:
Name this 1683-99 war that included the famous Siege of Vienna and was decided by the Battle of Zenta.
This general won the Battle of Zenta. He later also won the Battle of Blenheim along with the Duke of Marlborough.
The Battle of Blenheim occurred during this war, which ended with Louis XIV’s defeat and Philip V acquiring the throne of the namesake country, while renouncing all ties to France. It was settled at the Treaty of Utrecht and resulted in Bourbon control of the namesake country.
Great Turkish War
Eugene of Savoy [prompt on Eugene]
War of the Spanish Succession &lt;DM&gt;
These people sold Manhattan for the equivalent of 60 guilders. For 10 points each:
Name these people who lived in the region of the Delaware and Hudson Rivers before European contact. They were defrauded of 1.2 million acres through the Walking Purchase.
The Walking Purchase took place in Pennsylvania and was created by the sons of William Penn, who was much more just in his own dealings with the Lenape. William Penn also founded this largest city in Pennsylvania.
The Lenape were forced to move to Ohio in a treaty signed in this Eastern Pennsylvanian town at the confluence of the Delaware and Lehigh Rivers, now the site of Lafayette University.
Lenni Lenape [accept Delaware]
Philadelphia
Easton &lt;DM&gt;
Expectations of the destruction of archaeological sites in this city by ISIS from 2015-6 turned out to be worse than the true damage done. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient city home to a namesake kingdom in the 200s led by Queen Zenobia that broke away from Rome.
Palmyra is in this country, now site of a rebellion and civil war against the government of Bashar al-Assad in which ISIS has taken part.
The Palmyrene Kingdom was retaken by the Romans under this emperor. He ended the Crisis of the Third Century and was thus deemed “Restitutor Orbis,” or restorer of the globe.
Palmyra
Syria
Lucius Domitius Aurelianus Augustus [do not accept or prompt on partial answer] &lt;DM&gt;
Answer some questions about the early stages of the Pacific Front. For 10 points each:
On December 7, 1941, the US officially entered World War II after this event.
Eight hours after the US entered the war, a British Crown colony got invaded by the Japanese, marking the beginning of this WW2 battle, which ended later that month when a governor personally surrendered to the Japanese on the third floor of the Peninsula Hotel.
Hong Kong’s turnover to the Japanese on Christmas Day of 1941 is known to native Hong Kongers as this. A Canadian slasher film of the same name, starring Olivia Hussey, was directed by Bob Clark and was a pioneer in its genre.
Bombing of Pearl Harbor
Battle of Hong Kong
Black Christmas &lt;AL&gt;
The police in this case had received a tip that racketeer Virgil Ogletree was in a certain house, but failed to produce a search warrant. For 10 points each:
Name this supreme court case which arose after the plaintiff was convicted of pornography charges despite the police lacking probable cause to search her house.
A main result of Mapp v. Ohio was that this rule was held to be binding on the states. This rule disallows illegally collected evidence from being used in courts of law.
The Exclusionary rule is grounded in the 4th Amendment, which was part of this document consisting of the first 10 amendments.
Mapp v Ohio
Exclusionary rule
Bill of Rights &lt;CO&gt;
He coined the term “the long 19th century” from 1789-1914. For ten points each;
Name this 20th century Marxist historian who split up European history into the ages of Revolution, Capital, Empire, and Extremes.
Hobsbawm focused on two “revolutions” as the driving impetuses behind modern history. One was the French Revolution, and the other was this one, relevant figures in which include Richard Arkwright.
Hobsbawm graduated from this university, a rival of Oxford, but was not offered a teaching position, likely due to his political views. It was home to Charles Darwin and Stephen Hawking.
Eric Hobsbawm
Industrial Revolution
University of Cambridge &lt;BL&gt;
Say goodbye to Britain—for 10 points each:
Name this international organization, unofficially headquartered in Brussels, whose mission is to integrate the economies, cultures, and politics of most of Europe, which Britain voted to leave in 2016.
This historic map of European unity showed Europe as a woman, symbolizing continental unity under Habsburg rule.
This is another name for a proposed united Europe, stylized after the name of an American nation. Victor Hugo proclaimed that this idea would have come to fruition when a tree in his garden matured. (The tree, if you’re curious, is still actively growing)
European Union
Europa Regina
United States of Europe &lt;BL&gt;
The US made a secret deal with Admiral Darlan, a Prime Minister of this country, but he was assassinated soon after. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose Prime Minister Laval succeeded Darlan. Its fleet was destroyed at Mers-el-Kebir.
Darlan was given control over all North African French forces in exchange for helping the US during this operation. This operation represented the first landing of American troops in the European War.
One of the locations of American landings was this largest Moroccan city. It was later the namesake of a 1942 film starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman.
Vichy France [prompt on France or word forms]
Operation Torch
Casablanca &lt;DM&gt;
You’re fired, eh! For 10 points each, name some things about the SNC-Lavalin affair.
The affair began when Jody Wilson-Raybould, who holds this position, was pressured by Justin Trudeau to give a Deferred Prosecution Agreement to SNC-Lavalin to help him politically. This person is the chief law officer of the Crown.
After refusing to give a DPA, Wilson-Raybould’s position was changed to this office in a move widely perceived as a demotion. Lawrence MacAulay currently holds this position.
The SNC-Lavalin affair is causing problems for this party in the 2019 election, and could help other parties, such as the Conservatives or the NDP win. This is the party of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
Attorney General of Canada
Minister of Veterans Affairs
Liberal Party of Canada [accept Parti libéral du Canada] &lt;BC&gt;
Name some geographical features located in Rome, for 10 points each:
These seven elevated geographical features in Rome form the heart of the city. The Forum was in a valley between them.
The mythical Romulus was said to have built the original city of Rome on this hill. Augustus and many other emperors later built their palaces on this hill.
On the other hand, Romulus’ brother Remus built his boundaries on this other hill.
Hills of Rome
Palatine Hill [accept Collis Palatinus or Palatino]
Aventine Hill [accept Collis Aventinus or Aventino] &lt;EC&gt;
Answer some questions about American pioneers in women’s rights. For 10 points each:
This Quaker, renowned for her speaking ability, helped organize the Seneca Falls convention along with Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
This woman was arrested after attempting to vote in the 1872 presidential election. She is now depicted on the one-dollar coin.
In 1913, organizers of a women’s suffrage march tried to exclude this journalist from marching because she was black. She is better known for documenting lynchings in the American South.
Lucretia Mott
Susan B. Anthony
Ida B. Wells-Barnett &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about the Inca emperor Atahualpa. For 10 points each:
After the death of his father Huayna Capac, Atahualpa fought this brother for control of the Inca Empire. He was defeated and imprisoned after losses at Chimborazo and Quipaipan.
By 1533, things weren’t going so well for Atahualpa. After his capture by this conquistador, Atahualpa offered several rooms’ worth of gold and silver to save his life, but this man killed him anyway.
This right-hand man of Pizarro was given a large share of Atahualpa’s gold and silver. He later became the first European to explore what is now Chile.
Huáscar
Francisco Pizarro
Diego de Almagro &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This group was responsible for the deaths of Charlie Dean and Neil Sharman. For 10 points each:
Name this communist political movement led by Kaysone Phomvihane and Prince Souphanouvong which took over a certain Southeast Asian country.
This neighboring country created Group 959 to supply the Pathet Lao. This country, led by Ho Chi Minh until his death, was one of two states created by the 1954 Geneva Conference.
The Geneva Conference was preceded by this battle in the First Indochina War, in which the Viet Minh led by Võ Nguyên Giáp defeated the French Far East Expeditionary Corps.
Pathet Lao
North Vietnam (do not accept “Vietnam”)
Dien Bien Phu &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about non-European campaigns in World War II. For 10 points each:
This man was defeated by Bernard Montgomery at the First Battle of El Alamein. Known as the “Desert Fox”, he commanded the German forces in North Africa during the war.
This Pacific island was the site of the Kokoda Track campaign. Japanese attempts to land on this island led to the Battle of the Coral Sea.
In one of the final campaigns of the Pacific Theater, this modern-day country was liberated from Japanese occupation after U.S. victories at Leyte, Mindoro, and Luzon.
Erwin Rommel
New Guinea (do not accept “Papua New Guinea”)
Philipppines &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This city was the site of the Nika Riots and the center of the iconoclast controversy. For 10 points each:
Name this city, which fell to the Ottoman Empire in 1453.
In 1203, the Fourth Crusade sacked Constantinople under the leadership of Boniface I and this blind doge of Venice.
The overthrow of Maria of Antioch by Andronikos I Komnenos catalyzed this 1182 massacre of Roman Catholics by the Eastern Orthodox population of Constantinople.
Constantinople (do not accept “Istanbul”)
Enrico Dandolo
Massacre of the Latins &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
During these conflicts, the ship <em>Intrepid</em> exploded, killing all 13 sailors on board. For 10 points each:
Name these conflicts between the U.S. and pirates on the North African coast.
The Barbary states were nominally under the control of this empire, ruled by several sultans.
At this battle in the Second Barbary War, the USS Guerriere captained by Stephen Decatur captured the Algerian frigate Meshuda.
Barbary Wars
Ottoman Empire
Battle off Cape Gata &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This movement was founded at the Bandung Conference. For 10 points each:
Name this movement, whose member states agreed to stay neutral during the Cold War.
The term “non-aligned” was first used in a 1952 speech by the diplomat V.K. Menon, a close ally of this first prime minister of India.
Another prominent figure in the Non-Aligned Movement was this king of Cambodia. Deposed in 1970 by Lon Nol, he survived arrest by the Khmer Rouge and served as king again from 1993 to 2004.
Non-Aligned Movement
Jawaharlal Nehru
Norodom Sihanouk &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about Andrew Jackson’s presidency. For 10 points each:
Jackson tried to remove this Native American tribe despite the Supreme Court’s ruling in Worcester v. Georgia. Under his successor, Martin van Buren, they were forcibly relocated to Oklahoma in the 1838 Trail of Tears.
This wife of Jackson’s second Secretary of War was ostracized by women like Floride Calhoun in the Petticoat Affair.
During his time in office, Jackson passed this executive order, requiring buyers of government land to pay gold or silver coins. It was a primary cause of the Panic of 1837.
Cherokee
Peggy Eaton (or Margaret Eaton)
Specie Circular &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
The first rulers of this modern-day country were the legendary Hung kings. For 10 points each:
Name this country, also home to kingdoms like Champa and Funan. Many of its major civilizations were established on the Mekong River.
This national hero led the successful Lam Son rebellion, which established Vietnam as an independent state. He was succeeded by his son Le Thai Tong.
In the Lam Son rebellion, Le Loi defeated the Xuande Emperor of this Chinese dynasty. Other events during this dynasty included Zheng He’s naval expeditions.
Vietnam
Le Loi
Ming Dynasty &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This war resulted from Ferdinand II’s attempts to catholicize the Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this religious war ended by the Peace of Westphalia.
This peace treaty ended the Holy Roman civil war during the Thirty Years’ War. It prevented states of the Holy Roman Empire from allying and re-established the Peace of Augsburg.
At this battle near Prague, the Bohemian army under Christian of Anhalt was defeated by Imperial forces led by Count Tilly. It effectively ended the Bohemian Revolt.
Thirty Years’ War
Peace of Prague
Battle of White Mountain &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about Nazi collaborationist governments. For 10 points each:
After taking over France, the Nazis installed this puppet government led by Philippe Petain.
The Nazis also replaced Johann Nygaardsvold with this leader of the Nasjonal Samling party, who governed with Josef Terboven.
While under Nazi control, Hungary was governed by this political party named for the distinctive symbol on its flag. It was led during its ten-year existence by Ferenc Szalasi.
Vichy France
Vidkun Quisling
Arrow Cross Party &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This man’s eccentric behaviors included commissioning a rotating golden statue of himself that always faced the sun. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator known as “Turkmenbashy”, the nominal first president of Turkmenistan.
Niyazov supported a 1991 coup in this country which sought to reinstate its Communist government and overthrow its president Boris Yeltsin. This country is currently led by Yeltsin’s successor Vladimir Putin.
Another notorious dictator, Nursultan Nazarbayev, has led this country since its independence. He moved its capital from Almaty to Astana in 1997.
Saparmurat Niyazov
Russia
Kazakhstan &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This city contains a shrine to its first king, Yax K'uk' Mo' (yash-kook- MO) at the top of its Hieroglyphic Stairway. For 10 points each:
Name this site near the Honduras-Guatemala border, most famously ruled by 18-Rabbit.
Copan was a major city of this Mesoamerican civilization, which declined after an unexplained 9th century political collapse. Their other cities included Chichen Itza.
This earliest known civilization in Mexico created several statues of colossal stone heads at sites like La Venta and San Lorenzo.
Copan
Mayans
Olmecs &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about the Petersburg Campaign. For 10 points each:
At the start of this battle, Union forces exploded a Confederate mine. However, the Ninth Army Corps was eventually defeated by Robert E. Lee and William Mahone.
After his defeat at the Battle of the Crater, this general was replaced by John Parke. He had earlier resigned command of the Army of the Potomac after the Battle of Fredericksburg.
The Petersburg Campaign took place in this state, where Lee subsequently surrendered at Appomattox Court House.
Battle of the Crater
Ambrose Burnside
Virginia &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This movement was founded at the Bandung Conference. For 10 points each:
Name this movement, whose member states agreed to stay neutral during the Cold War.
The term “non-aligned” was first used in a 1952 speech by the diplomat V.K. Menon, a close ally of this first prime minister of India.
Another prominent figure in the Non-Aligned Movement was this king of Cambodia. Deposed in 1970 by Lon Nol, he survived arrest by the Khmer Rouge and served as king again from 1993 to 2004.
Non-Aligned Movement
Jawaharlal Nehru
Norodom Sihanouk &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about Andrew Jackson’s presidency. For 10 points each:
Jackson tried to remove this Native American tribe despite the Supreme Court’s ruling in Worcester v. Georgia. Under his successor, Martin van Buren, they were forcibly relocated to Oklahoma in the 1838 Trail of Tears.
This wife of Jackson’s second Secretary of War was ostracized by women like Floride Calhoun in the Petticoat Affair.
During his time in office, Jackson passed this executive order, requiring buyers of government land to pay gold or silver coins. It was a primary cause of the Panic of 1837.
Cherokee
Peggy Eaton (or Margaret Eaton)
Specie Circular &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
The first rulers of this modern-day country were the legendary Hung kings. For 10 points each:
Name this country, also home to kingdoms like Champa and Funan. Many of its major civilizations were established on the Mekong River.
This national hero led the successful Lam Son rebellion, which established Vietnam as an independent state. He was succeeded by his son Le Thai Tong.
In the Lam Son rebellion, Le Loi defeated the Xuande Emperor of this Chinese dynasty. Other events during this dynasty included Zheng He’s naval expeditions.
Vietnam
Le Loi
Ming Dynasty &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This war resulted from Ferdinand II’s attempts to catholicize the Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this religious war ended by the Peace of Westphalia.
This peace treaty ended the Holy Roman civil war during the Thirty Years’ War. It prevented states of the Holy Roman Empire from allying and re-established the Peace of Augsburg.
At this battle near Prague, the Bohemian army under Christian of Anhalt was defeated by Imperial forces led by Count Tilly. It effectively ended the Bohemian Revolt.
Thirty Years’ War
Peace of Prague
Battle of White Mountain &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This state was founded in 882 by Prince Oleg. For 10 points each:
Name this state ruled by the Rurikid dynasty, governed from its namesake Ukrainian city.
The Rus’ were thought to be an offshoot of these Scandinavian seafarers, whose leaders included Cnut the Great and Leif Eriksson.
This prince of Kiev and Novgorod expanded Kievan Rus’ to its greatest extent. He codified the laws of Kiev, forming the basis for the later Russkaya Pravda law code.
Kievan Rus’
Vikings
Yaroslav I (or Yaroslav the Wise) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This man is best known for an event at Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Station. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who stated “I am a Stalwart of the Stalwarts” after his most famous action.
Guiteau assassinated this US president, who defeated Winfield Scott Hancock in the election of 1880.
Guiteau had previously been a member of this Perfectionist religious community. After leaving, he sued its founder John Humphrey Noyes.
Charles Guiteau
James Garfield
Oneida Community &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
During his first presidential campaign, this man mocked US Ambassador Spruille Braden’s “Blue Book” by publishing his own “Blue and White Book.” For 10 points each:
Name this president who served three terms from 1946 to 1974. Several of his supporters were killed by snipers in the Ezeiza massacre.
After the 1955 Revolución Libertadora, Perón escaped north to this country on a gunboat provided by its dictator Alfredo Stroessner.
Perón’s wife Isabel was succeeded by this dictator, who instituted the National Reorganization Process. The majority of the Dirty War took place during his rule.
Juan Perón
Paraguay
Jorge Videla &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This expedition ended following the successful siege of Gaeta. For 10 points each:
Name this Sicilian expedition which overthrew the Bourbon king Francis II.
The Expedition of the Thousand was led by this Italian patriot. He also fought for the Colorado faction in the Uruguayan Civil War.
This man ceded Garibaldi’s birthplace of Nice to France, prompting Garibaldi to call him “a low intriguer.” He later became the first prime minister of a unified Italy.
Expedition of the Thousand (or Spedizione dei Mille)
Giuseppe Garibaldi
Camillo Benso, count di Cavour &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This man was the only US president to also serve on the Supreme Court. For 10 points each:
Name this notoriously heavy president who succeeded Theodore Roosevelt.
Taft described this alliterative diplomatic policy as substituting the titular objects for bullets. It aimed to increase US influence in several countries by establishing loan systems.
Early in his administration, Taft passed this tariff named for two Republican senators. It split Republicans into Progressive and Old Guard factions, leading to their loss in the elections of 1810.
William Howard Taft
Dollar diplomacy
Payne-Aldrich Tariff &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about European rulers with mental disabilities. For 10 points each:
In this country, the death of Fyodor I, who reportedly suffered from mental retardation, resulted in the Time of Troubles.
This king was insane for the last eight years of his life, during which Spencer Perceval was assassinated and the British helped win the Napoleonic Wars.
Antoine de Lalaing chronicled this ruler’s journey from Burgundy to be recognized as heiress of Castile. She was later declared mentally unfit to rule by her father Ferdinand II.
Russia
George III
Joanna the Mad (or Joanna of Castile; or Joanna of Aragon) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This man’s 1936 speech to the League of Nations condemned the use of chemical weapons against his country. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor of Ethiopia, worshipped as a messiah in Rastafarianism.
The aforementioned chemical weapons were used by this country, which conquered Ethiopia in 1935. It was led at the time by Benito Mussolini.
This longest-serving head of the Derg led Ethiopia during the Ogaden War and the 1983-85 famine. He was forced out of power shortly before Eritrean independence.
Haile Selassie I
Italy
Mengistu Haile Mariam &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about the legendary fifth king of Rome, Tarquinius Priscus. For 10 points each:
Priscus was the first king of Rome from this civilization. These inhabitants of Tuscany referred to themselves as Rasenna.
When Priscus first entered Rome, his wife Tanaquil prophesied his greatness after one of these animals removed his cap and put it back on his head.
Priscus was succeeded as king by this man, who conducted the first Roman census. He was murdered on the orders of Tarquinius Superbus, after which his daughter intentionally drove over his dead body.
Etruscans
an eagle
Servius Tullius &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Bai Juyi's Chang Hen Ge, or Song of Everlasting Sorrow, retells the death of this person. For 10 points each:
Name this person, strangled to death by Gao Lishi after her cousin, Guozhong, was accused of treason. This member of the Four Beauties of ancient China was Emperor Xuanzong's favorite consort.
Yang was unfortunately caught up in the turmoil around this Sogdian general’s rebellion, which established an extremely short-lived Yan Dynasty.
The An Lushan rebellion severely weakened this Chinese dynasty, which ruled from 618 to 907. It was preceded by the Sui Dynasty and followed by the “Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms” period.
Yang Guifei
An Lushan
Tang Dynasty &lt;Hao&gt;
During this war, one side’s advance was stopped at the Battle of Ituzaingo. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict over the Banda Oriental region between Argentina and Brazil.
This man, the first head of state of an independent Brazil, led his country during the Cisplatine War.
The war led to the creation of this country, whose capital since independence has been Montevideo.
Cisplatine War
Dom Pedro I (prompt on “Pedro”)
Uruguay &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Several German military actions were named after Tannenberg. For 10 points each:
At the Battle of Grunwald, also called the First Battle of Tannenberg, a Polish-Lithuanian alliance defeated and killed this Teutonic Grand Master.
The 1914 Battle of Tannenberg saw Germany defeat Russia under the command of this general. From 1916 to the end of World War I, he effectively shared power with Erich Ludendorff.
Operation Tannenberg was a genocide carried out by this government, which held millions of people in concentration camps like Auschwitz.
Ulrich von  Jungingen
Paul von Hindenburg
Nazi Germany (prompt on “Germany” ; accept any ANSWERs relating to Nazis) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This event resulted from the invoking of Article 50 in March 2017. For 10 points each:
Name this event, the withdrawal of the UK from the European Union.
This current British Foreign Secretary was a prominent leader of the Brexit campaign. He infamously claimed the Libyan city of Sirte could become a new Dubai if “[they] cleared all the dead bodies away”.
This group led by Arlene Foster was the only political party in Northern Ireland to back “Leave” during the Brexit campaign. After the June 2017 special elections, Theresa May’s conservatives stayed in power by forming a coalition with this party.
Brexit
Boris Johnson
Democratic Unionist Party &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Several events shaped Ireland’s struggle for independence. For 10 points each:
The British army suppressed this 1916 armed uprising, named for the holiday during which it occurred. This uprising, started by Patrick Pearse and James Connolly, was organized by the Irish Republican Brotherhood
The Easter Rising mostly took place in this city. This capital of Ireland was also the site of the Phoenix Park Murders.
This period of unrest in late 19th century Ireland began after a namesake conference passed a resolution demanding the so-called “three Fs”. It was ended by a 1903 act named for George Wyndham.
Easter Rising
Dublin
Land War &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This event led to the resignations of Elliot Richardson and William Ruckelshaus. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which Richard Nixon fired special prosecutor Archibald Cox.
The Saturday Night Massacre was part of this political scandal, which was investigated by journalists Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein.
Deep Throat, an informant for Woodward and Bernstein, was revealed in 2005 to be this then-associate director of the FBI.
Saturday Night Massacre
Watergate scandal
Mark Felt &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Following this event, Lachlan Macquarie was appointed governor of a certain colony. For 10 points each:
Name this rebellion, caused by James MacArthur’s importation of the titular alcoholic drink.
This man’s misfortunes continued when he was deposed in the Rum Rebellion. Fifteen years earlier, Fletcher Christian had mutinied against him on the Bounty.
The Rum Rebellion occurred in this country, which was founded by resettled convicts in what is now Sydney.
Rum Rebellion
William Bligh
Australia &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This historical figure defeated the Elamite king Teumman and crushed the Kingdom of Kush. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Esarhaddon, better known for his large library of cuneiform tablets.
Ashurbanipal ruled this empire, which he governed from Nineveh. This empire founded by Adad-nirari II was also ruled by Sennacherib.
This other Assyrian king conquered Syria and Palestine, as well as taking over the Babylonian throne in 728 BCE. He also established the first professional Assyrian standing army.
Ashurbanipal
Assyrian Empire
Tiglath-Pileser III &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about the New Deal. For 10 points each:
The New Deal was the brainchild of this longest-serving US president.
This law named for a New York senator was a key part of the New Deal. It guaranteed the right to unionize and created the National Labor Relations Board.
This island’s namesake “reconstruction administration” was created as part of the New Deal. Its economy was later modernized through Operation Bootstrap.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt (accept FDR)
Wagner Act
Puerto Rico &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This kingdom’s first rose to power when it defeated the neighboring state of Denkyira. For 10 points each:
Name this West African civilization established by Osei Tutu.
The Ashanti kingdom was located primarily in what is now this country. Its city of Kumasi is the capital of the modern-day Ashanti region.
According to legend, an Ashanti priest commanded this object from heaven to serve as Osei Tutu’s throne. The refusal of the Ashanti to let British governor Frederick Hodgson sit on it led to a namesake war.
Ashanti
Ghana
Golden Stool (or Sika ‘dwa) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This country’s most infamous policy was opposed by groups like the Azanian People’s Organization. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the “I Am Prepared to Die” speech was given by Nelson Mandela.
In 1985, South Africa installed a government in this country. In the early 1900s, Lothar von Trotha carried out a genocide against this country’s Herero people.
This founding member of SWAPO was elected Namibia’s first president in 1990. He detailed his role in Namibian independence in his 2001 autobiography Where Others Wavered.
South Africa
Namibia
Sam Nujoma &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This man became king after the death of Edward the Confessor. For 10 points each:
Name this last Anglo-Saxon king of England who died at the Battle of Hastings.
Harold Godwinson was chosen as king by this aristocratic assembly, which had earlier reinstated Aethelred the Unready after Sweyn Forkbeard’s invasion.
Before losing at Hastings, Harold had defeated and killed this king of Norway at the Battle of Stamford Bridge.
Harold Godwinson (or Harold II; prompt on “Harold”)
Witenagemot (or Witan)
Harald Hardrada (accept Harald III) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
During this period, the imperial capital was moved from Kyoto to the newly renamed Tokyo. For 10 points each:
Name this period in Japanese history where the feudal government was gradually changed into its modern form in a namesake restoration.
This oath, which was put forth by the Meiji Emperor, outlined the plan for Japan’s modernization. It is sometimes known by the number of clauses it contained.
The story of this famous event was popularized in the Meiji Period. This event involved the leaderless samurai of their late master Asano gaining revenge against his rival, Kira, and is named for the number of samurai who participated in the revenge.
Meiji period
Charter Oath or Oath in Five Articles
The revenge of the 47 rōnin (or the Akō incident) &lt;Hao&gt;
Answer some questions about the Greek historian Xenophon. For 10 points each:
Xenophon’s Hellenica describes the last seven years and aftermath of this conflict, in which Sparta defeated Athens to become Greece’s leading city-state.
This most famous work by Xenophon describes his experiences as part of the Ten Thousand, a group of mercenaries hired by Cyrus the Younger to overthrow his brother Artaxerxes II.
According to Xenophon, the Ten Thousand cried “Thalatta! Thalatta!” after seeing this sea near the city of Trebizond, meaning they had returned to Greek city-states.
Peloponnesian War
Anabasis
Black Sea &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This region was formerly led by Carles Puigdemont. For 10 points each:
Name this region of Spain which held a controversial independence vote on October 1, 2017. This region’s pro-independence parliament retained a majority in its December 21 election.
After Catalonia declared independence on October 27, this Spanish prime minister and leader of the People’s Party invoked Article 155.
On October 3, in the immediate aftermath of the referendum, this king of Spain delivered a televised address accusing the referendum organizers of “unacceptable disloyalty” and acting “outside the law”.
Catalonia
Mariano Rajoy
Felipe VI (prompt on “Felipe”) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
During this prime minister’s term, Harold Macmillan served as Foreign Secretary and then Chancellor of the Exchequer. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who succeeded Winston Churchill after his second term.
Eden is best known for his mishandling of this event, which occurred after the U.S. and Britain withdrew funding for the Aswan High Dam.
The Suez Crisis was mediated by Lester Pearson, who later became prime minister of this country. Its current prime minister is Justin Trudeau.
Sir Anthony Eden
Suez Crisis
Canada &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about Roger Sherman. For 10 points each:
Sherman was one of the signatories of this 1774 agreement, which called for a boycott of all British goods.
Sherman also signed on to this loose compact between the American states which was superseded by the Constitution.
When the Constitutional Convention was split between the Virginia Plan and New Jersey Plan, Sherman suggested this compromise. It retained proportional representation in the House but gave states equal power in the Senate.
Continental Association
Articles of Confederation
Connecticut Compromise (accept Great Compromise) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Answer some questions about Mongol khans. For 10 points each:
This successor of Ogodei Khan oversaw the surrender of Armenia to the Mongols and conducted an empire-wide census in 1246. He died en route to a meeting with his rival Batu Khan two years later.
This khan expanded the Mongol Empire to its furthest extent. He launched a failed invasion of Japan and established the Yuan Dynasty in China.
In 1258, Hulagu Khan, a brother of Kublai, sacked this Abbasid capital, burning its House of Wisdom in the process.
Guyuk Khan
Kublai Khan
Baghdad &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This kingdom’s rulers included Kamehameha I. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom which later became the 50th US state.
This agreement, signed by the Hawaiian king Kalakaua, allowed several Hawaiian goods to be imported tax-free to the US. It also granted the US control of Pearl Harbor.
The Hawaiian monarchy was deposed in 1893 by Lorin Thurston, Sanford Dole, and this US minister to Hawaii. He was found guilty of inappropriate conduct by the Blount Report.
Hawaii
Reciprocity Treaty of 1875
John L. Stevens &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
One side in this conflict was aided by Philhellenes like Lord Byron. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict, which liberated a certain country from Ottoman rule.
This man led the secret organization Filiki Eteria, which agitated for Greek independence. In his final military action, he was defeated at the Battle of Dragasani.
Ypsilantis was chosen to lead the Filiki Eteria after this then-Russian foreign minister refused the position. He later became the first governor of independent Greece.
Greek War of Independence (accept any answers related to Greek independence)
Alexander Ypsilantis (or Ypsilanti)
Count Ioannis Kapodistrias &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Past leaders of this country include Mirwais Hotak. 10 points each:
Name this country, whose military forces are currently fighting the Taliban.
From 1747 to 1826, Afghanistan was ruled by this dynasty. Its first ruler, Ahmad Shah, is considered the father of modern Afghanistan.
Ahmad Shah Durrani defeated the Maratha kingdom in a 1761 battle fought at this location. In a more famous battle at this location, Babur defeated the Lodi Dynasty and established the Mughal Empire.
Afghanistan
Durrani
Panipat &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This organization has been led since 2014 by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. For 10 points each:
Name this terrorist organization which was expelled from its capital of Raqqa by the Syrian Democratic Forces in October 2017.
As part of its campaign to “purify” Iraq, ISIS has led a genocide against this Christian minority, many of whom live near the city of Sinjar.
This eastern Syrian city on the banks of the Euphrates was fully liberated from ISIL by the Syrian Arab Army by November.
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (or IS; or ISIL; or ISIS; or Daesh)
Yazidis
Deir ez-Zor &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Archaeologists divided this site into the Hill Complex, Valley Complex, and Great Enclosure. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient city built by the ancestral Shona people, the most prominent ruin in a namesake southern African country.
Great Zimbabwe is most famous for its soapstone carvings of these animals, one of which appears on Zimbabwe’s national flag.
Several of the soapstone bird carvings from Great Zimbabwe were originally sold to this man, who founded the De Beers diamond company and planned the Cape to Cairo Railway. The country of Zimbabwe was formerly named after him.
Great Zimbabwe
birds
Cecil Rhodes &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Sukru Kaya set up concentration camps during this event, which also included the Siege of Van. For 10 points each:
Name this extermination campaign carried out by Ottoman leadership against the namesake ethnic group.
This member of the “Three Pashas” who controlled the Ottoman Empire ordered the deportation of Armenian intellectuals on April 24, 1915. Six years later, he was assassinated in Germany by Soghomon Tehlirian.
The Armenian Genocide took place during this global conflict, which ended the Ottoman Empire.
Armenian Genocide (accept clear-knowledge equivalents)
Talaat Pasha
World War I &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This man fired PATCO union members following the air traffic controllers’ strike. For 10 points each:
Name this 40th US president whose economic policies were labeled “trickle-down economics”.
One of the low points of Reagan’s presidency was this scandal, in which the US sold arms to Iran to support Nicaraguan anti-communist rebels.
This man and his nephew Ali Bahramani were the Iranian points of contact during the Iran-Contra Affair. He later became the country’s prime minister from 1989 to 1997.
Ronald Reagan
Iran-Contra Affair (accept Irangate or Contragate)
Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Alexander Dubcek tried to carry out reforms in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country where the Prague Spring was crushed by the Warsaw Pact.
One-party rule in Czechoslovakia ended following this 1989 event, which resulted in Vaclav Havel’s election as president.
This president, Havel’s predecessor, was forced to resign after the Velvet Revolution. He oversaw the so-called “renormalization” period following the Prague Spring.
Czechoslovakia (do not accept “Czech Republic”)
Velvet Revolution (do not accept “Velvet Divorce”; prompt on just “Velvet”)
Gustáv Husák &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Important sources for this battle include the Poem of Pentaur and the Bulletin. For 10 points each:
Name this stalemate between the Egyptian New Kingdom and the Hittite Empire, the largest chariot battle in history.
This pharaoh commanded the Egyptian forces at Kadesh. The temples at Abu Simbel were built during his reign.
This Hittite king moved his capital from Hattusa to Tarhuntassa but is better known for fighting Ramesses II at Kadesh.
Battle of Kadesh
Ramesses II (or Ramesses the Great)
Muwatalli II &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This conflict began following the XYZ affair. For 10 points each:
Name this undeclared war between the U.S. and France.
The Quasi-War occurred during the presidency of this man, who succeeded George Washington.
During the Quasi-War, this ship captured the French ships L’Insurgente and La Vengeance. Following the war, this ship’s captain Thomas Truxton earned two gold medals.
Quasi-War
John Adams (prompt on “Adams”)
USS Constellation &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
In this province, Pierre Laporte was kidnapped and killed by the paramilitary group FLQ. For 10 points each:
Name this province of Canada, better known for its mostly French-speaking population.
To get Quebec to approve the 1982 Canadian constitution, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney pushed for ratification of this agreement. It strengthened the powers of the provinces and declared Quebec a “distinct society.”
This man, Mulroney’s predecessor as prime minister, was an early opponent of the Meech Lake Accord. His son is the current prime minister of Canada.
Quebec
Meech Lake Accord
Pierre Elliott Trudeau (prompt on “Trudeau”) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This conflict resulted in the accession of Henry VII. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict between the houses of Lancaster and York.
The first rebellion against Henry VII was led by the Earl of Lincoln, who used this Earl of Warwick lookalike as a figurehead. He and his followers were decisively defeated at the Battle of Stoke Field.
Another pretender to the throne, Perkin Warbeck, was captured while attempting to start a rebellion in this westernmost region of England.
War(s) of the Roses
Lambert Simnel
Cornwall &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
In 1974, this country’s president, Archbishop Makarios III, was deposed by the EOKA-B paramilitary group. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose incorporation into Greece is the goal of the enosis movement.
This country invaded Cyprus following the 1974 coup and maintains de facto control over the northern part of the island. The part of Nicosia controlled by this country includes a square named for Kemal Ataturk.
Thanks to the 1960 Treaty of Guarantee, Britain still controls military bases in two areas of Cyprus. Name either.
Cyprus
Turkey
Akrotiri or Dhekelia &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This conflict included the Devil’s Hole Massacre. For 10 points each:
Name this 1763 uprising led by a chief of the Ottawa.
During Pontiac’s Rebellion, British forces tried to break the siege of this fort but were defeated at Bloody Run. It shares its name with the largest city in Michigan.
Pontiac’s Rebellion also saw the first use of biological warfare, when this British commander delivered smallpox-infected blankets to Native Americans. He had earlier orchestrated the capture of New France in the Seven Years War.
Pontiac’s Rebellion
Fort Detroit
Jeffrey Amherst &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Name some stubborn enemies of the Roman Republic. For 10 points each:
This kingdom, which fought three wars with Rome, came under Roman control after losing the Battle of Pydna. Its most famous ruler was Alexander the Great.
The Republic also fought three wars with this king of Pontus, who was defeated by Pompey in 65 CE and committed suicide two years later.
Rome never conquered this region, whose Arsacid dynasty defeated and killed Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae.
Macedon (or Macedonia)
Mithridates VI
Parthia &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
This battle began when Russian commander Peter Wittgenstein attacked Napoleon’s right wing near Leipzig. For 10 points each:
Name this 1813 battle which halted the advance of the Sixth Coalition.
Gerhard von Blucher, who commanded Prussian troops at Lützen, combined with the Duke of Wellington to defeat Napoleon at this battle two years later.
This field marshal was chosen to command the Russian forces at the start of Napoleon’s invasion. He instituted a highly effective scorched-earth policy but was replaced by Mikhail Kutuzov after the Battle of Smolensk.
Battle of Lützen
Battle of Waterloo
Prince Michael Andreas Barclay de Tolly &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
In February 2017, this leader admitted he had “turned his back” on pursuing election reform. For 10 points each:
Name this Liberal prime minister of Canada who succeeded Stephen Harper.
Trudeau was ruled to have violated the Conflict of Interest Act over a vacation with Aga Khan IV, the current leader of the Nizari Ismaili branch of this religion.
This liberal opposition party in Canada elected Jagmeet Singh, the first Sikh leader of a major Canadian political party.
Justin Trudeau (prompt on “Trudeau”)
Shia Islam (or Shi’ites; prompt on “Islam)
New Democratic Party (or NDP) &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
The first of these conflicts began with the Battle of Bov and was ended by the London Protocol. For 10 points each:
Name these conflicts, which erupted over a disputed territory between Germany and Denmark.
The Second Schleswig War was instigated by this German chancellor, who pursued the policy of Kulturkampf and delivered the Blood and Iron speech.
A treaty signed in this city ended the Schleswig Wars. An earlier conference in this city revoked French conquests and later helped end the Hundred Days.
Schleswig Wars (accept Schleswig-Holstein wars)
Otto von Bismarck
Vienna &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
The only battle fought during this rebellion was the Battle of Olumpali. For 10 points each:
Name this insurrection, which for 25 days occupied the Sonoma Barracks and Sutter’s Fort.
This man issued a proclamation after the capture of Sonoma in June 1846. He was elected commander of the California Republic a few days later, thus becoming the first Mormon head of state.
John C. Fremont, who ordered the capture of Sonoma, later lost the 1856 presidential election to this predecessor of Abraham Lincoln.
Bear Flag Revolt
William B. Ide
James Buchanan &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Early in his career, this politician wrote a successful "Tragy Comedy" for Queen Henrietta Maria titled <em>The Lost Lady</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this successor to Francis Wyatt who upset his white constituency by adopting friendlier relations with Native Americans. This governor died before he could explain his actions to King Charles II.
William Berkeley served as governor of this colony in the 17th century. The first session of the House of Burgesses met in a church in Jamestown in this colony.
During Berkeley's second term as governor, he faced a rebellion led by this man. This man advocated for a more vigorous anti-Indian policy and died of dysentery (DISS-in-TAIR-ee) before his rebellion ended.
Sir William Berkeley
Virginia [or Colony of Virginia]
Nathaniel Bacon &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Early explorers hoped that this thing would lead them to a civilization described by Herodotus that supposedly had vast troves of amber and animal skins. For 10 points each:
Identify this route sought by explorers such as Martin Frobisher. The Vancouver Expedition did not find any evidence for this route's existence.
For his third voyage, this explorer was given a secret mission to find the Northwest Passage in the Pacific Ocean. He explored the coast of Australia on the HMS Endeavour.
John Murray's account of this man's doomed 19th-century expedition to find the Northwest Passage is titled The Man Who Ate His Boots. This man's ship, the HMS Erebus, was found in 2014.
Northwest Passage
James Cook
Sir John Franklin &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This city was built on top of the ancient cities of Nicephorium and Callinicus. For 10 points each:
Identify this Syrian city east of Aleppo and located near the confluence of the Balikh and Euphrates Rivers. Harun al-Rashid moved his capital to this city in 796.
In June 2014, this organization declared a new caliphate with Raqqa as its capital. This organization's finances were hurt when it lost control of oil fields near Tikrit.
In the 1960s, Raqqa's economy grew thanks to workers on one of these projects. One of these things in Mosul formerly named for Saddam Hussein poses a great danger to the surrounding region.
Raqqa [or Rakka; or Al-Raqqah]
ISIS [or Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant; or ISIL; or IS; or Islamic State of Iraq and Syria; or Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham; or Daesh]
hydroelectric dam &lt;Bentley, Geography - World&gt;
Identify the following about the almost-war between the United States and Great Britain in the 1850s, for 10 points each.
British ambassador John Crampton recruited US citizens to fight in this war in violation of the Neutrality Act. US sentiment supported Russia in this conflict over a namesake peninsula.
In Central America, the British frequently got into skirmishes with Accessory Transit Company, a firm owned by this shipping tycoon who founded a namesake Southern university.
This American was seized by the British government in 1860 and executed in Honduras. A national holiday in Costa Rica celebrates Juan Santamaria setting this mercenary's hotel on fire in 1856.
Crimean War [or War of the Crimea]
Cornelius Vanderbilt [or Commodore Vanderbilt]
William Walker &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
This action's codename is shared with an Indian counter-offensive in the Kargil War. For 10 points each:
Name this 1961 military operation in which territories such as Diu and Daman were seized.
Operation Vijay was launched by this first Indian prime minister, who may have been motivated to distract the nation from the 12,000 square miles of territory that India had recently lost to China in the Himalayas.
Nehru was a founding member of this group of states that sought to not take a side during the Cold War. This group was formally founded at a 1961 meeting in Belgrade.
Invasion of Goa [or Annexation of Goa; or Liberation of Goa; or Operation Vijay or anything involving India gaining control of Goa or Portuguese India]
Jawaharlal Nehru [or Pandit Nehru]
Non-Aligned Movement [or NAM] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
A campaign against this man was part of the greater campaign of the "Three Fs." For 10 points each:
Name this land agent. His name entered the English language after his employees refused to work for him, forcing the deployment of an expeditionary force to harvest his crops.
Boycott was an Englishman who managed land in this neighboring island country, then a part of the UK. Absentee landlords in this country were often targets for the ire of this country's Land League.
This leader of the Land League gave the speech that incited the original boycott. As an MP, he convinced members of the Liberal Party to support Irish Home Rule.
Charles Boycott
Ireland [or Eire]
Charles Stewart Parnell &lt;Minarik, History - European&gt;
A general from this period of time named Bai Qi (bye chee) was known as <em>Ren Tu</em> or "The Human Butcher" since he ordered that 400,000 enemy soldiers be buried alive at the Battle of Changping. For 10 points each:
Name this period of history which began in the 5th century BC, and only ended after the Zhou Dynasty collapsed.
The Warring States Period ended with the unification of China by Qin Shi Huang (cheen shur hwong), whose necropolis contains an army of soldiers made from this material.
The anecdote about the Bai Qi (bye chee), "The Human Butcher," appears in this text by Sima Qian (suh-mah chee-EN), which claims that the Xia (sh’YAH) Dynasty were the first rulers in the lands that comprise modern-day China.
Warring States Period [or Zhànguó shídài]
terracotta [or clay or earthenware; accept Terracotta Army; prompt on ceramics or pottery]
Records of the Grand Historian [or Shiji] &lt;Jose, History - World&gt;
Identify the following about the Magna Carta's legacy in American history, for 10 points each.
In 1775, a council in this state used an image of an American holding a sword and the Magna Carta for its seal. This state's 1780 constitution is the oldest still-functioning constitution in the world.
The words "Magna Charta" also appear in the seal of this body, which met in Carpenters' Hall. This body, presided over by Peyton Randolph, passed a resolution boycotting British-made goods.
In this man's Braintree Instructions, he argued that the Stamp Act was "directly repugnant to the Great Charter itself." He served as the second President of the United States.
Massachusetts [or Commonwealth of Massachusetts]
First Continental Congress [prompt on Continental Congress]
John Adams [prompt on Adams] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Under Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, this country spent billions supporting the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. For 10 points each:
Identify this country which was subject to a blockade from Saudi Arabia and its allies. Al Jazeera broadcasts from this Gulf State.
Qatar's wealth comes mainly from its reserves of this resource, which is not oil. The Atlantic Sunrise Pipeline transports this good in the US.
The blockade may have been caused by Qatar paying one billion dollars to Iran to retrieve hostages who had been engaging in this activity. It's not hunting, but lanners, muskets, and kestrels were used by low-ranking medieval participants in this activity.
Qatar [or State of Qatar]
natural gas [prompt on gas; do not accept "gasoline"]
falconry [or hawking; or gamehawking] &lt;Bentley, Current Events - Foreign&gt;
Identify the following about the Nueva Planta decrees, for 10 points each.
The decrees were issued in the early 18th century by the first Spanish king from this dynasty, Philip V. The War of the Spanish Succession was fought to prevent this dynasty from controlling the Spanish throne.
The decrees removed many of the privileges of this region of Spain, effectively nationalizing the country. Zaragoza was the final capital of this kingdom, which was united with Castile to form modern-day Spain.
In response, the Aragonese backed this Holy Roman Emperor over the French candidate for the Spanish throne. This emperor issued the Pragmatic Sanction to pass on his territories to Maria Theresa. Give his title as Holy Roman Emperor.
House of Bourbon [or Bourbon Dynasty]
Aragon [or Kingdom of Aragon]
Charles VI [or Karl VI; do not accept or prompt on "Charles II" or "Charles III" as he wasn't called that as Holy Roman Emperor] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This event was sparked by thousands of people who rushed the Peruvian embassy trying to seek asylum. For 10 points each:
Name this 1980 event in which large numbers of people, many of them released prisoners, boarded ramshackle crafts headed to Florida from the namesake town.
The Marielitos were escaping from this Communist country, then ruled by Fidel Castro.
This Peruvian president at the time said that his country would welcome asylum seekers. He shares his last name with a current head of state of a Latin American country with Aymara (eye-MAH-rah) ancestry.
Mariel Boatlift [prompt on but DO NOT REVEAL Cuban Boatlift]
Cuba [or Republic of Cuba]
Francisco Morales-Bermúdez Cerruti [accept Juan Evo Morales Ayma] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
In 1941, a general of this ethnicity named Slavko Kvaternik seized control of his country's capital. For 10 points each:
Identify this ethnicity shared by Ante Pavelić (ON-tay PAH-veh-leech), who declared himself Poglavnik, or dictator, shortly after Kvaternik's coup.
Following World War II, Ante Pavelić fled to this country, where he was killed by a Montenegrin in 1957. Adolf Eichmann (IKE-mahn) was captured in this Latin American country, which has a sun on its flag.
The Croatian general Josip Jelačić (YO-seep YAY-la-cheech) helped put down a rebellion in this modern-day country during the Revolutions of 1848. In 1956, the government of this then-Soviet republic unsuccessfully attempted to leave the Warsaw Pact.
Croat [or Croatian; or Hrvati]
Argentina [or Argentine Republic]
Hungary [or Magyarország] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Antoinette Burton edited a volume about "ten books" that shaped this empire, which included Charlotte Brontë's <em>Jane Eyre</em> and Charles Pearson's <em>National Life and Character</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this "empire on which the Sun never sets." Its territories included the Raj in India.
Burton's volume argues that Thomas Macaulay's History of England shaped the British Empire by offering an interpretation of history described by this word, which holds that Britain was always advancing towards freedom. This word names the 18th-century political party of Robert Walpole and Pitt the Elder.
This author's Scouting for Boys is cited for defining the way the British approached different social groups. This man fought at the Battle of Mafeking (MAF-eh-king) and founded the Boy Scouts.
British Empire [or the United Kingdom; or the UK]
Whig interpretation of history [or the Whigs; or whiggish history]
Robert Baden-Powell [or Robert Stephenson Smyth Baden-Powell, 1st Baron Baden-Powell] &lt;Jose, History - European&gt;
Four buildings of this type in Manhattan have been nicknamed the Tombs, owing to the original's resemblance to an Egyptian mausoleum. For 10 points each:
Identify these types of buildings, which served similar functions as a brig on a ship.
The Tombs was located in this New York neighborhood, built upon a polluted pond and infamous for its slums. It borders the Bowery and is named for the intersection of Park, Anthony, and Orange streets.
Murderer William J. Sharkey escaped The Tombs by performing this action. Newspaper cartoonists had a field day depicting Jefferson Davis after he was apprehended while doing this in Irwinville, Georgia in 1865.
jail [or prison; or correctional facility; or penitentiary; or detention complex; or hall of justice]
Five Points
dressing up as a woman [or crossdressing; or wearing women's clothes; or wearing his wife's overcoat] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
The 170 men who rowed each of these ships often came from Piraeus and were <em>thetes</em>, the lowest class of citizen. For 10 points each:
Identify these Athenian ships named for the three rows of oarsmen who powered them.
Athenian oarsmen played a crucial role at Salamis, where a Greek fleet defeated a numerically superior force under this Persian general. This successor of Darius I (dah-RYE-us the first) overwhelmed the Spartans at Thermopylae.
The thetes were not allowed to be members of this council, which met on a rock named for the Greek god of war. Under Ephialtes, this body lost much of its power.
triremes
Xerxes [or Xerxes the Great; or Xerxes I; or Khshayarsha]
Areopagus &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
In this country, the farmer Jacobus Brits discovered the world's largest meteorite near the town of Grootfontein (GROOT-fon-tyne). For 10 points each:
Name this country home to the Caprivi Strip. It shares a land border with Angola to its north.
Though English is an official language in Namibia, its residents often speak this European language. The empire that spoke this language fought the UK and France for control of its African colonies in World War I.
In 2006, Windhoek (VINT-hook) hosted the world's largest braai, which is one of these events popular in southern Africa. A South American version of these events is called asado.
Republic of Namibia
German [or Deutsch]
barbecue cookouts [or BBQ; or cookout; or outdoor cooking; prompt on cooking or other events that don't mention "cooking outdoors"; accept preparing smoked meats in a social gathering of some sort; prompt on grill or equivalents; prompt on feast or equivalents] &lt;Jose, Geography - World&gt;
Members of this group likely kidnapped and tortured to death William R. Higgins, who was overseeing a UN peacekeeping effort in 1985. For 10 points each:
Identify this Shi'a militia group that receives backing from Iran. Hassan Nasrallah has headed this group since 1992.
Hezbollah first formed in this country, following an Israeli invasion in the early 1980s. This country's government, based in Beirut, instigated a 2008 conflict when it cut off Hezbollah's private telecom network.
Give either the first or last name of the Lebanese Christian who was assassinated by a car bomb in 1982 before he could become President. A 2008 Israeli film by Ari Folman is named for him.
Hezbollah [or Hizbullah; or Hizballah; prompt on Party of God; prompt on Party of Allah]
Lebanon [or Lebanese Republic]
Bashir Gemayel (bah-SHEER jem-AY-yill) [or Bashir Gemayel; or Bashīr al-Jimayyel; or Bashīr al-Jumayyil; or Bashir El Gamaiel; accept Waltz with Bashir] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
The modern form of this process was first used on Lord Chancellor Francis Bacon in 1621. For 10 points each:
Identify this process in which the House of Commons commands the House of Lords to place a corrupt minister on trial. Warren Hastings spent seven years undergoing this process.
Bacon was offered up for impeachment to protect George Villiers, the Duke of Buckingham, who was a favorite of this monarch. This first Stuart King of England succeeded Elizabeth I.
This man accused Hastings of "feeding on the indigent, the dying and ruined" during his four-day-long opening speech in the impeachment trial. As the leader of the "Old Whigs," he opposed Charles James Fox.
impeachment
James I [or James VI of Scotland; prompt on James]
Edmund Burke &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Bankers and silk workers belonged to one of the seven major institutions of this type in Renaissance Florence, while locksmiths joined one of the fourteen minor ones. For 10 points each:
Identify these institutions that restricted who could produce certain goods and set quality standards.
Florentines who worked in this profession were members of the Beccai guild. Annibale Carracci made two genre paintings inside the shop of these people, possibly made for a guild sign.
People in this profession joined the Fornai guild. The French adjective boulangère (boo-lawn-ZHAIR) originally referred to items that people couldn't produce at home and thus brought to these professionals.
trade guilds
butchers [or meat sellers]
bakers [or bread makers] &lt;Bentley, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
Identify the following about French taxes, for 10 points each.
In the spring of 1662, peasants in Boulogne and Calais revolted against this tax levied on subjects who did not bear arms. The personnelle version of this tax was collected in Northern France.
The taille was not applied to most noblemen or to members of this profession. Members of this profession constituted the First Estate and were supported by payments such as the tithe.
Residents of this city were exempt from paying the taille. Although taxes were reformed in the Revolution, the silk industry in this capital of the Rhone department plummeted during the turmoil.
taille (tie)
clergy [or priests; or bishops; or churchmen]
Lyon [or Lyons] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The name for this practice came from the Latin word for free, and members of Congress are entitled to a privilege of this name which lets them mass communicate with their constituents. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice of sending free snail mail.
Ben Franklin, who changed his witty franking stamp to the more patriotic "B. free Franklin," was the first man to hold this post under the Continental Congress. This chief of the USPS was once a cabinet position.
This president appointed Postmaster General John McLean to the Supreme Court since McLean wouldn't agree to his patronage requests. His opponents criticized him as "King Mob."
franking [or franking privilege; or Congressional Frank]
postmaster general [or United States Postmaster General; prompt on CEO of the United States Postal Service]
Andrew Jackson &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Identify the following about nicknames for soldiers during World War I, for 10 points each.
Troops from this country were known as doughboys, and after the war thousands of Doughboy monuments were erected. The sinking of the Lusitania helped bring this country into the war.
This was the stereotypical name of a British soldier. Harry Patch, who died in 2009, was celebrated as being the last of these people.
Troops from this unit referred to some of their enemies as "Johnny Turk" and originated Digger slang such as "chocs" for the "chocolate soldiers" who were too afraid to fight.
United States of America [or USA; or America]
Tommy [or Tommy Atkins]
ANZAC [or Australian and New Zealand Army Corps] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Porfirio Diaz ironically led a campaign against this practice at the beginning of his political career. For 10 points each:
Identify practice that has been banned in Mexico since the 1917 revolution, resulting in the sexenio. Because of the ban on this practice, the dedazo or "tap" is used to appoint a successor.
Diaz seemed to imply that he would not run for re-election in "Thrilling Story of President Diaz, the Greatest Man on the Continent," an article by a reporter from this country. The Zimmermann Telegram sent to Mexico helped bring this country into World War I.
These technocrats, the principal advisors of Porfirio Diaz, included Positivist finance minister Jose Yves Limantour.
re-election of the President of Mexico [prompt on election]
United States of America [or USA; or America]
Cientificos [or scientists] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
A Keeper of the Heads lived in this structure's gatehouse and had the job of making sure the skulls of traitors were not vandalized. For 10 points each:
Identify this structure erected in the 12th century. Men would "shoot" the narrow gaps in this structure, and houses covered it until Charles Labelye's 1762 renovation.
Many boatmen died trying to pass under London Bridge due to the strong tides of this river, which the bridge spans.
This man's daughter, Margaret Roper, retrieved her father's head for burial from London Bridge. He was canonized in 2000, almost 500 years after he was beheaded for refusing to take the Oath of Supremacy to Henry VIII.
Old London Bridge
Thames
Thomas More [or Sir Thomas More; or Saint Thomas More] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Jacob Rodrigues Pereira, the grandfather of two prominent French financiers, developed a method for teaching people with this condition. For 10 points each:
Identify this condition. People with this characteristic were educated at the Clarke School in Massachusetts by Alexander Graham Bell.
This man, another Frenchman, developed a namesake system of raised dots that could be used by the blind to read with their fingers.
This wheelchair-bound former senator took to the floor of the Senate in 2014 to convince his colleagues to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
deafness [or deaf mute; or hard of hearing]
Louis Braille
Bob Dole [or Robert Joseph Dole] &lt;Bentley, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
An organization named for these two men popularized the notion that hunters should offer their big-game prey a "fair chase." For 10 points each:
Identify these two frontiersmen. One of them established a trail through the Cumberland Gap, and the other died at the Alamo.
The Boone and Crockett Club was established by this future US President. The Smithsonian sponsored his expedition to Africa after he left the presidency to his successor William Howard Taft.
Roosevelt almost died exploring the interior of this country with Candido Rondon on a 1913 to 1914 expedition.
Daniel Boone AND Davy Crockett [accept David Crockett in place of "Davy Crockett"; do not accept or prompt on incomplete answers]
Theodore Roosevelt [or Teddy Roosevelt; or TR; prompt on Roosevelt]
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
The largest surviving medieval map, which hung on the wall of Hereford Cathedral, made use of a pattern named for these two letters. For 10 points each:
Identify these two letters that name a type of medieval world map. The map style named for these two letters depicted Asia, Europe, and Africa ringed by the ocean.
A description of a T-and-O map appears in Etymologiae, an encyclopedia by a scholar named Isidore. Give the modern name for this scholar’s home country. Moorish kingdoms in this modern-day country were targeted in the Reconquista.
T-and-O maps are sometimes called Beatine maps after Beatus, a monk who served in the court of these people's Kingdom of Asturias. This tribe established what is now the French city of Toulouse as the capital of their kingdom on the Iberian peninsula.
T AND O [accept T-and-O map]
Spain [or Espana]
Visigoths &lt;Brownstein, History - European&gt;
In 2010, a circus clown named Tiririca was elected to this country's Congress on the slogan "It can't get any worse!" For 10 points each:
Identify this country, home to populist politician Jair Bolsonaro (ja-EER boh-soh-NAH-roo). Its president took office after his predecessor was impeached in 2016 in a scandal involving its national oil company.
Brazilian politicians João Doria and Roberto Justus (ho-BAIR-too JOOS-toos) both hosted local versions of this reality TV program. Donald Trump used the catchphrase "You're Fired" on this program.
Trust in the Brazilian government has plummeted due to this operation, led by Sergio Moro (SAIRJ-yoo MOR-oo). Outside Brazil, Peru's former president, Ollanta Humala (oh-YAHN-tah oo-MAH-la), has been accused of bribery by this operation.
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil]
The Apprentice [or The Celebrity Apprentice]
Operation Car Wash [or Operação Lava Jato] &lt;Bentley, Current Events - Foreign&gt;
Identify the following about the history of Buddhism in Korea, for 10 points each.
The large slave armies controlled by Buddhist temples helped defend against the invasion of these people in Korea. These people founded the Yuan Dynasty in China under Kublai Khan.
At the tail end of this Korean kingdom, a monk-turned-Prime Minister named Sin Ton tried to reform the monasteries and kick out Mongol collaborators. This kingdom was succeeded by the Joseon Kingdom.
Warrior monks in the Righteous Army were active participants in the first of these events. After a brief exile, Admiral Yi Sun-shin led his forces to victory in the Battle of Myeongnyang (myung-n’YAHNG) during one of these events.
Mongols [or Mongolians; or Mongolchuud]
Goryeo (KOH-ryuh) Kingdom [or Koryo Kingdom]
Japanese invasions of Korea [or Toyotomi Hideyoshi's invasions of the Korean peninsula; or Imjin War; or Wanil Korean Campaign; or Bunroku no ek; or Keichō no eki; or Kara iri] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Identify the following about the Tawagalawa Letter, for 10 points each.
The letter was likely written in the 13th century BC by a king of these people. These people reached their greatest territorial extent under King Suppiluliuma I.
The city of Wilusa mentioned in the letter may refer to this city. Archaeological evidence for this city was found by Heinrich Schliemann, confirming a long conflict the Greeks fought against it recorded by Homer.
The letter proposes sending Dabala-Tarhunda, a man who operated one of these things, as a hostage to the Hittites. The Battle of Kadesh is believed to be the largest battle in history fought using these devices.
Hittites [or Hittite Empire]
Troy
war chariots &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
A song of this name was written by Irving Berlin and made into a campaign ad animated by Walt Disney. For 10 points each:
Identify this three-word slogan that appeared on many buttons in the election of 1952.
Eisenhower was not convinced to resign his military post and run for president until an electoral "miracle" in this state's Republican primary. Hubert Humphrey was a senator from here.
At the 1952 Republican National Convention, Eisenhower supporters claimed that Texas was being stolen from them by a rival delegation supporting this man. This Ohio senator co-sponsored a 1947 bill that banned closed shops.
"I Like Ike"
Minnesota
Robert Taft Sr. [or Robert Alphonso Taft Sr.; prompt on Taft] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Plutarch describes how these two people met when one dressed as Aphrodite and departed from a golden barge attended to by ladies-in-waiting posed as mermaids. For 10 points each:
Identify these two people. One supposedly committed suicide with asps after learning of the death of the other following their defeat at the hands of Marcus Agrippa.
The forces of Antony and Cleopatra were defeated at the Battle of Actium by this man, who would go on to become Rome's first emperor.
Antony seized over 200,000 papyrus documents in this city's library as a gift for Cleopatra. King Eumenes II of this city in modern-day Turkey commissioned a monumental altar that now resides in a namesake Berlin museum.
Mark Antony and Cleopatra VII Thea Philopator [or Marcus Antonius and Cleopatra]
Augustus [or Octavian; or Augustus Caesar; or Gaius Octavius; or Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus]
Pergamon [or Pergamum] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This island is south of the Shimonoseki Strait. For 10 points each:
Identify this southernmost of Japan's four principal islands. It was first linked to Honshū through the Kanmon Tunnel.
In the early 20th century, it was faster for residents of Kyūshū to take a steamship to this country than to Tōkyō. Large numbers of Japanese colonized this country, which is now divided along the 38th parallel.
At Sanno, a one-legged one of these things serves as a monument to the atomic bomb that destroyed the Kyūshū city of Nagasaki. Parts of these structures include a kasagi.
Kyūshū
Korea [or Kingdom of Korea; or South Korea; or North Korea; or Hanguk; or Kankoku]
torii [prompt on Shinto shrine gate] &lt;Bentley, Geography - World&gt;
In <em>Changes in the Land</em>, William Cronon described the inflationary spiral caused by the transition of this kind of item from a prestige good, worn mostly by sachems, to a commodity. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of item made of drilled whelk- or quahog-shell beads on a string. A two-rowed belt made of these items recorded a 1613 peace treaty between the Iroquois and European colonists.
Like beaver pelts, wampum were a currency substitute in this country's American colony. The British gained control over New York via a 1674 treaty with this maritime rival.
This tribe based in present-day Connecticut amassed firearms through the wampum trade. The Mystic Massacre ended a war named after this tribe.
wampum [or wampumpeag]
The Netherlands [or Dutch Republic; or Republic of the Seven United Netherlands; or Republic of the Seven United Provinces; or Dutch Federation; prompt on Holland]
Pequot tribe &lt;Kothari, History - American&gt;
At the time of their transfer, these two territories contained 80 percent of France's known iron ore deposits. For 10 points each:
Name these two territories that France ceded to the Germans after its defeat in the Franco-Prussian War.
The land between this river and the Ruhr was home to significant iron interests in the late 19th century. This major river of Germany passes through Cologne.
A university in this city, which became German after the Franco-Prussian War, is where Oskar Minkowski and Josef von Mering discovered a link between diabetes and the pancreas. La Marseillaise (la mar-say-YEZ) was composed in this city, which like Brussels and Luxembourg houses the European Parliament.
Alsace AND Lorraine [or Alsace-Lorraine; or Imperial Territory of Alsace-Lorraine; or Elsass-Lothringen; or Alsace-Moselle]
Rhine River [or Rhein River]
Strasbourg [or Strassburg] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The sound from this event could be heard as far away as South Australia, and was the loudest ever recorded on Earth. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1883 natural disaster that covered the surrounding region in darkness for two days afterwards.
Most of the deaths from the eruption of Krakatoa came not from the explosion itself, but from the tidal waves that reached islands such as this one. 141 million people live on this most populous island in Indonesia that is home to Jakarta.
This man was made Governor of Java in 1811 and wrote a history of the island in 1817. This Englishman is credited with founding modern-day Singapore.
eruption of Krakatoa
Java [or Jawa]
Stamford Raffles [or Sir Thomas Stamford Bingley Raffles] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Gotthold Lessing wrote an admiring set of discourses on this group's ideas, which generally required belief in a Supreme Being. For 10 points each:
Identify this secret society originating in Great Britain in lodges once reserved for cathedral builders.
This Prussian king was a Freemason. He kicked off the War of Austrian Succession when he invaded Silesia.
Ebenezer Cobb Morley was one of the men who codified the rules of this activity at the Queen Street Freemasons' Tavern in London beginning in 1863. Morley's code superseded the Cambridge rules for this activity.
Secret Fraternal Order of Free and Accepted Masons [or Freemasons; or Freemasonry; or Masonic Lodge]
Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; or Friedrich der Grosse; prompt on Frederick]
soccer [or association football] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
These people were required to carry an internal passport with them, and the collective taxes laid on them discouraged them from leaving their homes. For 10 points each:
Identify these people who suffered under the Obshchina and its communal ownership system until their lives were made marginally better by the Stolypin reforms.
The serfs were freed by this Russian emperor who was assassinated in 1881.
An earlier attempt to assassination Alexander II involved blowing up one of these things. Alexander III held up the ceiling of one of these things so his family could escape during an incident in Borki.
Russian serfs [prompt on Russians or Russian workers]
Alexander II [or Aleksandr II Nikolaevich; prompt on Alexander]
trains [or train cars; or dining cars; or railroad cars] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
These American-made ships were designed to sail as fast as possible to beat out competitors traveling to China. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of ship whose name comes from the way they reduced the time of a voyage. One of these ships, the Sovereign of the Seas, achieved a speed of 22 knots.
A Clipper called the Flying Cloud made back its money in just one return voyage from this modern-day state during a gold rush begun after a discovery at Sutter's Mill.
Another man who profited from the gold rush was Claus Spreckels, who sold this good to gold miners. A trust for this good was not broken up because of the E.C. Knight verdict.
Clippers [or Clipper ships; or extreme clipper ships]
California
sugar [or refined sugar] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
A 1571 Act of Parliament sought to help manufacturers of this material by requiring that all men over the age of six wear caps made from it on Sundays or face a fine. For 10 points each:
Identify this good, one of the most important English exports in the late Middle Ages. The English raised many sheep to produce this good.
English consumers went wild for these multi-colored cotton textiles imported from India beginning in the 17th century, sparking a 1700 Act that banned their sale.
This region of India was particularly hard hit by the Calico Acts. Lord Curzon partitioned this place in 1905, and it names a Great Famine of 1770.
wool
calico
Bengal [do not accept or prompt on "Bangladesh"] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
It's not a storeroom, but one of these places in Ebla in modern-day Syria burned to the ground in 2300 BC, preserving most of the items contained within it. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of institution. Ashurbanipal (AH-shur-BAH-nih-PALL) lends his name to one of these things whose contents are now largely in the British Museum.
Unlike the scribes in Ebla, those in Egypt typically applied a reed stylus to a material made from this plant that grew in the Nile Delta.
Another important document from ancient Mesopotamia is the Sumerian text of this type which has a man named Dumuzi living for over 3,600 years.
library
papyrus [or Cyperus papyrus; or papyrus sedge; or paper reed]
king list [or Sumerian King List] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Vandana Shiva claimed that this movement's shift of emphasis to productivity had disastrous results on India in her book on the "Violence" of it. For 10 points each:
Identify this term given to the surge in agricultural productivity following World War II. Norman Borlaug won a Nobel Peace Prize for his role in this movement.
The CIMMYT and the Rockefeller Foundation worked to bring the Green Revolution to this North American country, where many crops were still grown as part of the hacienda system.
This country started exporting rice thanks to efficiencies gained from adopting IR8 rice. This country became a "Tiger Cub" economy during the presidency of Fidel Ramos in the 1990s.
Green Revolution [or Third Agricultural Revolution]
Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]
The Philippines [or Republic of The Philippines] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Conman Gregor MacGregor established his "Poyais Scheme" in this region, and Allie moves his family here in a namesake Paul Theroux (thuh-ROO) novel. For 10 points each:
Name this region. When it was a British protectorate, its capital was Bluefields.
The Mosquito Coast is named for the Miskito tribe of Native Americans, which predominantly live in this country in the Central American isthmus. The Treaty of Managua, which adjudicated the status of the Mosquito Coast, was signed in its capital.
The English occupied Bluefields so that they could harvest this commodity. In the 1980s, Earth First's practice of "spiking" caused disruption to the machines that processed this commodity.
Mosquito Coast [or Miskito Coast; or Miskito Kingdom]
Republic of Nicaragua
wood [or hardwood; or timber; accept logs or trees; accept logging] &lt;Jose, Geography - World&gt;
A king of this country sometimes known as the Fairy Tale King attempted to copy Versailles Palace at Herrenchiemsee (HAIR-en-KEEM-zay). For 10 points each:
Name this defunct kingdom ruled by a man who decorated his castle Neuschwanstein (noysh-von-shtyne) with murals from Richard Wagner operas, King Ludwig II.
King Ludwig II of Bavaria was known as "The Mad King," as was this British monarch who ruled during the American Revolution.
Ludwig II supposedly refused to march with his troops into the Seven Weeks War because he felt a helmet would ruin his hair. The decisive battle in that conflict was this July 3rd, 1868, victory for the needle-gun-equipped Prussians over the Austrians under General Benedek.
Kingdom of Bavaria [or Königreich Bayern]
George III [or George III William Frederick; prompt on George]
Battle of Königgrätz [or Battle of Sadowa; or Battle of Sadova] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Juan Downey's wife Marilys (MAIR-uh-liss) faux-scientifically narrates this tribe's story of "The Man With the Pregnant Leg" in <em>The Laughing Alligator</em>, an experimental film about this tribe. For 10 points each:
Name this tribe that Napoleon Chagnon (SHAG-nun) controversially described as "The Fierce People" in films such as The Ax Fight.
The co-director of The Ax Fight, Tim Asch, was influenced by this anthropologist, who helped develop visual ethnography by co-creating the book Balinese Character with her husband Gregory Bateson.
The Yanomamo mostly live on the border of Venezuela and this country. Nancy Scheper-Hughes studied the death of children in the favelas (fuh-VAY-luhs) of larger cities in this country.
Yanomamo (yah-nuh-MAH-moh) [or Yąnomamö; or Yanomami; or Yanomama]
Margaret Mead
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil] &lt;Kothari, Social Science - Anthropology&gt;
Identify the following about portrait photographer Philippe Halsman, for 10 points each.
This artist holds the spine of an animal in a frontal portrait by Halsman from 1967. This artist's large flower paintings include Black Iris and Jimson Weed, and were often inspired by the scenery of Taos, New Mexico.
Halsman, who was born in Latvia, was able to enter the United States thanks to the intervention of this man, whom he captured with a pen clipped to his sweater collar in a close-up. Arthur Sasse captured this physicist sticking out his tongue.
Halsman photographed this politician from behind, staring at a country landscape, in a 1951 portrait. He scowls and holds the back of a chair in an iconic photograph by Yousuf Karsh.
Georgia O'Keeffe [or Georgia Totto O'Keeffe]
Albert Einstein
Winston Churchill [or Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill] &lt;Bentley, Arts - Photography&gt;
This state's unusually democratic 1776 constitution was drafted by lower-class "associators" such as math teacher James Cannon. For 10 points each:
Identify this state whose constitution had a 12-member council rather than a governor. Benjamin Rush, a resident of this state, denounced its constitution as "mob government."
In practice, Pennsylvania's constitution disenfranchised many members of this sect because they refused to swear an oath to the constitution. William Penn was a member of this non-violent sect.
In New York, populists scored a victory with the 1777 election of George Clinton to Governor. Clinton defeated this more genteel candidate, the father-in-law of Alexander Hamilton.
Pennsylvania
Quakers [or Society of Friends]
Philip (John) Schuyler (SKY-ler) &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
A one-penny tax per person given to the man holding this office started being collected in England during Saxon rule and increased to about two hundred pounds for the kingdom after the Conquest. For 10 points each:
Identify this person whose supremacy over the Church of England was ended during the reign of Henry VIII.
This pope's Saepe Venerabilis formalized the collection of Peter's Pence. He became known as the "Prisoner of the Vatican" during Italian unification.
Matthew Paris credits this king of Mercia with starting the tradition of giving Peter's Pence. During his reign, construction on a dyke between Mercia and Wales was begun.
the Pope [or papa; or Bishop of Rome]
Pius IX [or Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti; prompt on Pius]
Offa &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Graduates of West Point were one of 14 classes of people excluded from a general series of these things offered by Andrew Johnson in May 1865. For 10 points each:
Identify these orders, 64 of which were issued by Abraham Lincoln for offenses such as conspiracy.
One of the few people excluded from Andrew Johnson's third pardon order was this President of the Confederacy.
In the Birchard Letter, Lincoln offered to rescind the deportation order placed on this leader of the Knights of the Golden Circle, who ran for Governor of Ohio in 1863 on the Peace Democrats ticket.
Civil War pardons [or pardons for ex-Confederates; or amnesty for ex-Confederates]
Jefferson Davis [or Jefferson Finis Davis]
Clement Vallandigham [or Clement Laird Vallandigham] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
A recent plebiscite in this country was conducted by the Bureau of Statistics rather than the agency in charge of elections. For 10 points each:
Name this Commonwealth country that voted overwhelmingly to legalize gay marriage in 2017 despite opposition from former Prime Minister John Howard.
Several Australian politicians have had to resign recently because of this reason, including Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce. Section 44 of Australia's constitution bans MPs from having this status.
Australia has gone 26 years without a recession in part thanks to the large reserves of this resource in Western Australia. Rio Tinto mines it from the Mount Tom Price mine.
Australia [or Commonwealth of Australia]
they held non-Australian citizenship [or dual-citizenship; or citizenship in a country other than Australia; do NOT accept "they lacked Australian citizenship"]
iron ore &lt;Bentley, Current Events - Foreign&gt;
Jackie Fisher was tasked to investigate the feasibility of switching one fleet to using this good. For 10 points each:
Identify this substance, which replaced coal as the primary fuel for British ships. The switch to this fuel made control of the Middle East more important for the British.
This First Lord of the Admiralty spearheaded the switch to oil. His historical writings, such as his biography of his ancestor, the Duke of Marlborough, earned him the 1953 Nobel Prize in Literature.
Churchill affected the history of the Middle East through this generically-named document that stated that Arabs shouldn't worry about "the disappearance or the subordination of the Arabic population… in Palestine."
oil [or petroleum]
Winston Churchill [or Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill]
White Paper [or Correspondence with the Palestine Arab Delegation and the Zionist Organisation] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The leader of one of these conflicts supposedly snuck off to the highlands in the disguise of a workman. For 10 points each:
Identify this series of conflicts, one of which was led by Lord Mar in 1715. The Young Pretender led the 1745 event of this name.
At Braemar, Lord Mar proclaimed James Francis Edward Stuart, also known as the Old Pretender, to be king of this country. This country was united with its southern neighbor, England, through the Act of Union.
The Old Pretender spent his remaining years in this city, as did the "Minerva of the North," Queen Christina of Sweden. The de facto head of this city recognized Hanoverian legitimacy in exchange for a reform of the Penal Laws.
Jacobite Risings [or Jacobite rebellions; prompt on War of the British Succession]
Scotland
Rome [or Roma; or Vatican City] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This man had to be hospitalized and forcefed after he went on a hunger strike in an attempt to get permission for his wife Yelena Bonner to travel abroad for heart surgery. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet physicist and dissident, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in part for rejecting an anti-ballistic missile defense system to combat the US.
Sakharov also was a proponent of disarmament, which calls for ending the use of these weapons. The most destructive Soviet test of these weapons took place in the Novaya Zemlya archipelago.
Sakharov and Valery Chalidze (cha-LEED-zay) established a committee to protest the use of this profession to incarcerate dissidents. Members of this profession created the category of a "sluggish" form of a certain condition.
Andrei Sakharov
nuclear bombs [or any form of nuclear weaponry]
psychiatry [or psychology; accept word forms; that condition described in the question is "sluggish schizophrenia"] &lt;Jose, History - European&gt;
In 2005, this country's embassy in London was spray painted in red to protest the regime's suppression of the Andijan Unrest. For 10 points each:
Identify this Central Asian country, led after its independence by Islam Karimov.
In the 1980s, officials in Moscow criticized Sharof Rashidov of the Uzbek Soviet Social Republic for falsifying how much of this crop was being produced. Although Karimov abolished the slavery system to harvest this crop, state employees have still been forced to harvest it.
Ancient Samarkand was a major stop along this trade route that ran parallel to the Great Wall of China for some of its length.
Uzbekistan [or Republic of Uzbekistan]
cotton [or upland cotton; or Mexican cotton; or Gossypium hirsutum]
Silk Road &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Gregory Spears's 2018 opera <em>Fellow Travelers</em> is about this period in American history. For 10 points each:
Identify this period, during which approximately five thousand government employees were fired on suspicion of being homosexuals or engaging in other "sexual perversions." It is named for a color.
During the Lavender Scare, many homosexuals lost their job thanks to Executive Order 10450 signed by this president. He had earlier supervised the D-Day landings.
A 1947 rider that gave the Secretary of State the power to fire employees for being communists or homosexuals was named for a senator from this state, Pat McCarran. McCarran also lends his name to an airport in this state.
Lavender Scare
Dwight D. Eisenhower [or Dwight David Eisenhower]
Nevada &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Identify the following about some examples of Ancient Greek humor, for 10 points each.
This king gave a silver talent to a drinking club in Athens to write jokes for him. This king's son led the Companion Cavalry at a the Battle of Chaeronea, where his forces crushed the Theban Sacred Band.
This philosopher satirized Socrates's definition of man as a "featherless biped" by presenting a plucked chicken to the Academy and yelling, "Behold! I bring you a Man!" This Cynic from Sinope (SYE-noh-pee) supposedly went around with a lantern looking for an honest man.
This historian collected the pithy sayings of Laconic Women in one book. His best known work begins by comparing Theseus with Romulus.
Philip II [or Philippos II; prompt on Philip]
Diogenes the Cynic
Plutarch [or Lucius Mestrius Plutarchus] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
In his 1970 book <em>Between Two Ages</em>, this man predicted that the Cold War would wind down with the US and Soviet Union each moving ideologically towards the other. For 10 points each:
Namethis Polish-American political scientist and National Security Adviser who advocated harder line positions than Secretary of State Cyrus Vance.
Brzezinski and Vance both served under this Democratic president, on whose watch the Iran hostage crisis started.
Barry Goldwater sued the Carter administration after it withdrew from a mutual defense treaty with this Asian country, which once held a permanent seat on the UN Security Council.
Zbigniew Brzezinski (ZBIG-nee-ev brr-zheh-ZIN-ski) [or Zbigniew Kazimierz Brzezinski; or Zbig Brzezinski]
Jimmy Carter [or James Earl Carter Jr.]
Taiwan [or Republic of China; or ROC; do NOT accept or prompt on just "China"] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
This interrogative phrase titles Alwyn Turner's history of England during the 1970s. For 10 points each:
Give this three-word headline used by the tabloid newspaper The Sun to capture the indifference of Prime Minister James Callaghan to a strike of lorry drivers after returning from overseas.
This Shakespeare-inspired three-word phrase was used by James Callaghan to describe the period from 1978 to 1979 during which many of the UK's public sector employees, such as gravediggers and garbagemen, went on strike.
The Winter of Discontent occurred after Callaghan's government sought to control the rate of this phenomenon to less than five percent. In this phenomenon, prices rise and money becomes less valuable.
"Crisis? What Crisis?"
Winter of Discontent [do not accept any other answer]
inflation &lt;Jose, History - European&gt;
The cultural reputation of this city improved in the 1820s when Ruan Yuan (r’WEN y’WEN) founded an academy called the Sea of Learning. For 10 points each:
Namethis "city of the rams" once home to the 13 Factories. This city in the Pearl River Delta was seized by the British in 1857 during the Arrow War.
Cantonese is mutually unintelligible with this language. A campaign to make this "common speech" the standard language of China raised the population's understanding of it from 41 to 90 percent from 1949 to 1984.
A 1911 uprising in Guangzhou led by this author of the Three Principles of the People preceded the more general Chinese Revolution.
Guangzhou (gwong-JOH) [or Canton; or Kuang-chou; or Kwangchow]
Mandarin Chinese [or Modern Standard Mandarin; or Putonghua; or Guoyu; prompt on Guānhuà; prompt on Northern dialects; prompt on Modern Standard Chinese]
Sun Yat-sen [or Sun Yixian; or Sun I-hsien; or Sun Wen; or Sun Deming; or Sun Rixin; or Sun Zhongshan] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Some people investigated by this body were forced to wear a conical hat called a <em>coroza</em>, while others were given a garment known as a <em>sanbenito</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this body established in Spain by Ferdinand and Isabella. It routed out "insincere" conversos.
French historian Emmanuel Le Roy Laudrie's (le RWAH loh-DREE’s) book Montaillou (mon-tye-YOO) examines the effects of the Inquisition on members of the group previously targeted by this event. Residents in the town of Béziers (bayz-YAY) were massacred during this campaign, which was called by Innocent III.
Mexico City in 1850 was the site of the last of these public ceremonies where the sentences of those accused by the Inquisition were read out.
Spanish Inquisition
Albigensian Crusade [or Cathar Crusade]
auto-da-fé [or act of faith] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
A group of these people sponsored by the CMS traveled to Buganda after Henry Morton Stanley reported that Kabaka Mutesa I would welcome them. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of people. The Jesuits were among the first groups in modern times to send these people abroad to gain converts.
Kabaka Mutesa was willing to have Christian missionaries in his kingdom to deter an invasion by this country. Muhammad Ali ruled as Khedive (keh-DEEV) in this modern-day country's capital.
Henry Morton Stanley later launched a "relief" mission to save this German-born governor of Equatoria. He was killed while working for the German East Africa Company.
Christian missionaries [or Protestant missionaries; prompt on Christians; prompt on priests]
Egypt [or Arab Republic of Egypt]
Mehmed Emin Pasha [or Isaak Eduard Schnitzer; or Eduard Carl Oscar Theodor Schnitzer] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
A 1944 Act of Parliament concerning these institutions is popularly named for R. A. Butler and enshrined the Tripartite System. For 10 points each:
Identify these British institutions, subject to the A-Level system. The Clarendon Commission reformed how the one named Harrow was governed.
Two years after the Butler Act was passed, the School Milk Act provided a third of a pint per day to all children under 18. When this future prime minister rescinded part of that legislation in 1971, she earned the nickname "Milk Snatcher."
A longstanding tradition at Eton College is a rugby-like game named for one of these structures that was erected in 1717.
schools [or grammar schools; or colleges]
Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher; or Margaret Hilda Roberts]
wall [accept the Eton wall game] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This man was dismissed from Trinity College, Cambridge for his pacifist activism during World War I, and he expressed his radical social views in books like <em>Marriage and Morals</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this laureate of the Nobel Prize in Literature who worked with Jean-Paul Sartre to convene a 1966 tribunal to investigate American war crimes in Vietnam.
Russell was an opponent of these actions, many of which Britain conducted on Christmas Island. The organization Women Strike for Peace helped push the US to sign a 1963 treaty partially banning these actions.
Russell, Joseph Rotblat, and this physicist were the primary authors of a 1955 anti-nuclear manifesto. This man worked with Leó Szilárd to write a letter warning the American government that the Germans could build an atomic bomb, and he also developed the theory of relativity.
Bertrand Russell [or Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell]
nuclear tests [or nuclear weapons tests; or close equivalents]
Albert Einstein &lt;Kothari, History - European&gt;
On this holiday in 1647, people in Canterbury rioted on news that it was to be treated as any other working day with no sermon given. For 10 points each:
Identify this holiday whose celebration was banned by Parliament in the mid-1640s.
The blame for the ban on Christmas is often somewhat unfairly laid at the feet of this first Lord Protector of the Commonwealth.
The singer in this Royalist ballad complains that "Old Christmas is kickt out of Town". It was supposedly played by British troops surrendering to George Washington at the Battle of Yorktown.
Christmas day
Oliver Cromwell
"The World Turned Upside Down" &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
In the 1780s, this state had a regressive poll tax and 52 of its small towns didn't pay to send representatives to the state legislature. For 10 points each:
Identify this state, the first to ban slavery. Benjamin Lincoln fought the Battle of Petersham in this state.
Massachusetts's anti-rural economic measures were one of the causes of this 1786 uprising where angry rebels tried to seize the Springfield Armory.
Some of the participants in Shays's Rebellion referred to themselves with this term. In another state, many of these tax-hating westerners fled to Tennessee after losing the 1771 Battle of Alamance to William Tryon in a namesake war.
Massachusetts [or Commonwealth of Massachusetts]
Shays's Rebellion
Regulators [or War of the Regulation] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Caroline Elkins's book <em>Imperial Reckoning</em> was used by former detainees during this war to sue the British government for crimes committed in detention camps. For 10 points each:
Name this revolt of mostly Kikuyu people against the British colonial government in East Africa in the 1950s. Its end was hastened by the capture of Dedan Kimathi.
The Mau Mau Uprising took place in this present-day country whose first president was Jomo Kenyatta, with capital at Nairobi.
Britain launched Operation Legacy to hide evidence of its colonial crimes while this country prepared to be the first in sub-Saharan Africa to gain independence. W. E. B. Du Bois died in this country.
Mau Mau Uprising [or Mau Mau Rebellion; or Mau Mau Revolt; accept but DO NOT REVEAL the Kenyan Emergency]
Kenya [or Republic of Kenya]
Ghana [or Republic of Ghana] &lt;Kothari, History - World&gt;
People in this profession who worked blindfolded were known as Anabdata. For 10 points each:
Identify this occupation, other specialized examples of which included murmillos. Unlucky people in this profession would be subject to the pollice verso verdict.
Murmillos largely replaced a type of gladiator named after these people. Julius Caesar wrote an account of his conquest of these people, who lived in modern-day France.
Retiarii (ret-ee-AH-ree) gladiators used the weapons associated with this profession. The popular Roman product of garum was principally made from salt and the goods that people in this profession sold.
Roman gladiators
Gauls [prompt on Celts]
fishing [or fisherman] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This man wrote that Henri Poincaré's (pwann-kah-RAY’s) research on three-body problems "promised eternal bliss to the mathematician, but turned the historian green with horror." For 10 points each:
Name this historian who described his visit to the 1900 Paris World's Fair in "The Dynamo and the Virgin" in a 1919 book that won him a posthumous Pulitzer.
Much of a nine-volume history by Henry Adams chronicles the presidency of this "Father of the Constitution" and successor of Thomas Jefferson who entered the US into the War of 1812.
Henry Adams also wrote a biography of Albert Gallatin, who held this cabinet position under Jefferson and Madison. Salmon P. Chase was the first man to serve in this post under President Lincoln.
Henry Adams [accept The Education of Henry Adams]
James Madison [or James Madison Jr.]
Secretary of the Treasury [or Treasury Secretary] &lt;Jose, History - American&gt;
The term <em>prikhvatizatsiya</em> (preekh-vuh-tee-ZOTTS-yeh) describes the large-scale snatching of resources during this decade. For 10 points each:
Identify this decade in which apartments were bombed in Moscow as part of the Dagestan (DOG-eh-stahn) War. A man who became president in this decade was photographed standing on a tank in Red Square in defiance of the August coup during its early years.
This politician's handling of the Moscow apartment bombings helped him succeed Boris Yeltsin as head of the Russian state. He is the current President of Russia.
This two-word term refers to the quick economic liberalization and privatization applied to Russia and other former Soviet countries such as Poland in the 1990s. It often accompanies an austerity regime.
1990s
Vladimir Putin [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin]
shock therapy [or shock doctrine; or big bang] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The Class A form of these polities were all former Ottoman Territories, while the Class B came from German territories in Africa. For 10 points each:
Give this name for these League of Nations-defined territories that changed hands following World War I. British Palestine was one such territory with this distinction.
Another form of British colonialism was Indirect Rule, exemplified in this African country where local rulers administered "native courts" separate from European law. The Republic of Biafra tried to secede from this country in the 1960s.
The British moved from indirect to direct rule in this colony following the 1857 Sepoy Rebellion.
League of Nations mandates [accept mandatory Palestine]
Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria]
British India [or British Raj] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
In one essay, Audre (Audrey) Lorde recalled her fury after her family was turned away from a Breyer's ice cream and soda fountain on this day. For 10 points each:
Name this day. A speech delivered to the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society in Rochester called this day "a thin veil to cover up crimes which would disgrace a nation of savages."
This abolitionist gave the speech often published as "What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?" He wrote a bestselling slave narrative that describes his mistreatment by Mr. Covey and founded The North Star.
Many slave narratives were recorded as oral histories by this New Deal agency, whose Federal Writers' Project helped launch the careers of writers like Richard Wright.
Fourth of July [or July 4th; or American Independence Day]
Frederick Douglass
Works Progress Administration [or WPA] &lt;Kothari, Literature - American&gt;
Elmer Ellsworth, a volunteer in a regiment named for these troops, was the first Union officer to die during the Civil War. For 10 points each:
Identify these soldiers who originally fought for the French. They were of Berber ethnicity and characterized by their bright red trousers and fez.
Francis Brownell, a member of the Fire Zouaves, was the first Union soldier in the Civil War to receive this highest military decoration. Only about 3,500 have ever been awarded.
Ellsworth organized a prominent Zouave regiment from this state. The Camp Douglas POW camp in this state was named for a politician from here who came fourth in electoral votes in the 1860 presidential election.
Zouaves (z’WAHVZ) [or Zoo-Zoos]
U.S. Medal of Honor [or Congressional Medal of Honor; or Medal of Valor]
Illinois &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Some two million people were arrested for allegedly belonging to this class of people, since they might "grow as a class of capitalists and liquidate the dictatorship of the proletariat." For 10 points each:
Identify this Russian term for "rich peasants."
The kulaks were targeted by this Soviet leader notorious for his purges. He led the Soviet Union during World War II.
Many kulaks were sent to exile in this modern-day country. In 1960, over 1.6 million hectares of new land were plowed in this country as part of the Virgin and Idle Lands campaign.
kulaks (koo-LAHK or koo-WAHK) [do not accept "gulags"]
Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
Kazakhstan [or Republic of Kazakhstan] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This term was coined in an article by Heinz Valk, which argued that a nation which makes change by "smiling" and doing the namesake action is a "sublime example of the world." For 10 points each:
Give this term describing the mass protests in Vilnius and Riga that led to the independence of the Baltic States from the USSR.
Valk was from this northernmost of the Baltic states, whose capital is Tallinn. It achieved independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.
In 1989, 2 million people from the three Baltic countries formed a human chain as part of the "Baltic Way" protests on the 50th anniversary of this agreement. Estonia, Latvia, and Eastern Poland were marked as Soviet spheres of influence by this 1939 pact.
Singing Revolution
Republic of Estonia
Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact [or the Nazi–Soviet Pact; German–Soviet Non-aggression Pact] &lt;Jose, History - European&gt;
Participants in these events often stripped to the waist to prevent the chance of cloth causing an infection. For 10 points each:
Identify these events, in which two men would resolve a matter of honor by firing pistols at each other.
These people, usually friends of the men about to duel, would arrange the duel and handle communication between the principals.
This practice, sometimes called a judicial duel, was introduced to England by William I. These events were a way to resolve a trial without witnesses, with the winner proclaimed to be correct.
duels
seconds
trial by combat [or wager of battle; or trial by battle; do not accept "trial by ordeal"] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
In <em>Nardone v. United States</em>, the Supreme Court ruled that a ban on this practice in the 1934 Federal Communication Act applied to federal agencies. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice that government officials might go through a FISA court to get permission to do.
An earlier wiretapping case, Olmstead v. United States, concerned a bootlegger who operated from the Smith Tower in this city. It hosted the 1962 World's Fair.
The government's wiretapping power was expanded through this act, signed in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. The 2015 USA Freedom Act restored some expired provisions of this act.
wiretapping [or telephone tapping; or electronic surveillance; or phone surveillance; or webtapping; or internet wiretapping]
Seattle, Washington
USA PATRIOT Act [or Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
The first of these places was established in 1516 on the site of a former copper foundry and was not abolished until Napoleon's conquests. For 10 points each:
Identify these places, the first of which was located in Venice. One of these places in Prague was named for Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II.
Venetian Jews were allowed to perform this service from within the ghetto. Christian laws on usury opened up a niche for Jews to perform this banking service.
Venetian Jews in this profession were granted permission to venture out of the ghetto at night. One Jew in this profession, Kalonymus ben Kalonymus, translated Galen's writings into Hebrew.
Jewish ghettos [or Jewish quarter; or Jewish district; or Jewish neighborhood]
lend money at interest [accept equivalents]
physicians [or medical doctors] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
One member of this family bashed his head against the mast of his ship to avoid capture in a battle. For 10 points each:
Identify this family, multiple members of which served as doge of Venice. A man from this family orchestrated the Siege of Zara in 1202 despite being ninety years old and blind.
Enrico Dandolo died in this Byzantine capital after his troops infamously sacked it during the Fourth Crusade.
A Dandolo man with this first name served as doge in 1343. A Genoese admiral with this first name from the Doria family accompanied Charles V on the Algiers Expedition in 1541 and lends his name to a ship which sank in 1956.
Dandolo
Constantinople [or Istanbul; prompt on Byzantium]
Andrea [or Andrea Doria] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Ontario-based Grand River Enterprises is facing lawsuits over its sale of these products without US and Canadian taxes applied to them. For 10 points each:
Identify these products. GRE did not agree to the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement where manufacturers of these products agreed to pay 200 billion dollars to states.
GRE claims it is exempt from taxes because it manufactures and sells its cigarettes on one of these places. In 1988, Congress authorized casinos to be operated in these sovereign units.
GRE was sued in 2013 by Eric Schneiderman, who has since resigned due to reporting from this man and Jane Mayer. This son of Woody Allen won a Pulitzer for breaking details on Harvey Weinstein.
cigarettes [prompt on tobacco products]
Indian reservation [or Native American reservation; First Nations reservation]
Ronan Farrow [or Satchel Ronan O'Sullivan Farrow] &lt;Bentley, Current Events - United States&gt;
John Hershey wrote a story about the crew of this ship being rescued for the <em>New Yorker</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this vessel skippered by Lieutenant John F. Kennedy during World War II. Its crew was saved after being rammed by a Japanese ship.
During the presidential campaign in this election year, supporters of Kennedy wore PT-109 tie clips and bought their children inflatable PT-109 bath toys.
This other future US President was rescued by the USS Finback after his Grumman TBM Avenger was hit by anti-aircraft fire in an attack on Japanese forces on Chichijima Island.
PT-109 [or Motor Torpedo Boat PT-109]
1960
George H. W. Bush [or George Herbert Walker Bush; or Bush the Elder; or Bush 41; prompt on George Bush] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Identify the following about pulque (POOL-kay), a type of alcoholic drink, for 10 points each.
Pulque bars were banned after a 1692 riot in this city. A 19th-century riot in this city originated in the Parian market in its Zocalo main square, and this city was heavily damaged by a 1985 earthquake.
Aztec elites drank hot beverages made from this substance. Quakers J. S. Fry and John Cadbury made some of the first bars from sugar and the beans of this food.
Alongside pulque taxes, the government in New Spain placed export duties on carmine, one of these types of products made from the extract of the cochineal insect.
Mexico City [or Tenochtitlan; or City of Mexico; or Ciudad de Mexico; or CDMX]
chocolate [or cocoa beans; or cacao beans; accept chocolate bars]
natural dye [or artificial dye; prompt on color] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
The Triumph of Orthodoxy engineered by Theodora largely ended support for this position. For 10 points each:
Identify this stance once popular in the Byzantine Empire wherein many "graven images" were removed from Orthodox churches.
The mania for iconoclasm began during the reign of the Byzantine Emperor, who founded a Syrian dynasty when he took the throne in 717. He also issued the Ecloga law code.
Leo removed Germanus I from this position after Germanus refused to accept his policy on iconoclasm. The holder of this post is "first among equals" in the hierarchy of the Orthodox Church.
iconoclasm [or Eikonomachía]
Leo III [or Leo the Isaurian; prompt on Leo]
Patriarch of Constantinople [or Ecumenical Patriarch; or His Most Divine All-Holiness the Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Robert Goldstein, the producer of the silent film <em>The Spirit of '76</em>, was prosecuted under this act for depicting the British as the bad guys in the Revolutionary War. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1917 legislation that Daniel Ellsberg was accused of violating for stealing and leaking the Pentagon Papers.
In the Schenck opinion upholding the Espionage Act, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. ruled that the First Amendment doesn't protect one from falsely shouting about one of these things "in a theatre and causing panic."
This opponent of conscription was charged with violating the Espionage Act alongside Emma Goldman. He wrote Prison Memoirs of an Anarchist after shooting Henry Clay Frick.
Espionage Act of 1917
a fire
Alexander Berkman [or Ovsei Osipovich Berkman] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Nikolai Chernyshevsky's novel <em>What is to be Done?</em> idealizes this building as a utopia. For 10 points each:
Identify this building that was moved from Hyde Park to a section of London now named after it. Constructed for an 1851 event, it was destroyed in a fire in 1936.
One of the more eccentric inventions demonstrated at the Crystal Palace was the tempest prognosticator, which used these creatures to try to predict storms. These creatures are used in Hirudotherapy.
Over 800,000 people paid a penny to use one of these novelties at the Crystal Palace which were installed by George Jennings. Joseph Bramah and Thomas Crapper both developed flush versions of these sanitation devices.
The Crystal Palace
leeches [prompt on Hirudinea]
flush toilet [or flushing toilet; or flush lavatory; or water closet; or monkey closet] &lt;Jose, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
Identify the following about the career of Braccio da Montone, for 10 points each.
Braccio was one of the most powerful of the men known by this Italian term during the Renaissance. Sir John Hawkwood was one of these leaders of "contract" warriors.
Braccio took pleasure in subjecting people who displeased him to this punishment. One of these actions in Prague kicked off the Thirty Year's War, although Jaroslav Borzita survived by landing in a dung heap.
Braccio threw three men out of a tower in this town. A saint from this town tried to convert the Egyptian sultan during the Fifth Crusade and founded a religious order with Saint Clare, another resident of this town.
condottieri [or condottiero; or condottiere]
defenestration [or throwing people out of a building; or throwing people from a bridge]
Assisi [or Saint Francis of Assisi] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Many members of this class derived from Uradel families, and the 1808 Scharnhorst-Gneisenau reforms ended their monopoly on officer posts. For 10 points each:
Identify this Prussian class of landowners, whose name is German for "country squire."
This "Iron Chancellor" advanced Junker interests in Germany. He gave the "Blood and Iron" speech.
Junkers formed the Bund der Landwirte to oppose this politician's commercial treaties, which lowered grain tariffs. This chancellor also angered expansionists by signing a treaty that ceded Zanzibar to Great Britain.
Junker [or Yunker]
Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg]
Leo von Caprivi [or Georg Leo Graf von Caprivi de Caprera de Montecuccol] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
This issue first gained widespread attention after James Hansen, the director of the Goddard Institute at NASA, spoke before Congress in 1988. For 10 points each:
Identify this issue, also the subject of frequent reporting by Bill McKibben. Countries sent delegates to Kyoto in the 1990s to discuss this issue.
Six months after Hansen's testimony, this magazine founded by Henry Luce declared on its cover that the "Endangered Earth" was its "Planet of the Year."
It's not Vienna, but in 1987 the United States signed on to an agreement negotiated in this city to protect the ozone layer by reducing CFC emissions.
global warming [or man-made climate change; or greenhouse gas emissions]
Time
Montreal &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Philippe Van Parijs and Yannick Vanderborght included sixteenth century Antwerp in their book on these types of programs. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of program, one of which was piloted in Ontario. Italy's Five Star party proposes one of these things at 560 euros per month.
This startup seed accelerator is running a basic income pilot program in Oakland. This company runs the website Hacker News and has funded companies such as Dropbox and Airbnb.
In June 2016, voters in this European country overwhelmingly rejected a basic income measure. This neutral country has slowly been making its prominent banking industry more transparent.
universal basic income [or basic income guarantee; or unconditional basic income; or universal demogrant; or guaranteed income; or citizen's income; or basic living stipend]
Y Combinator [prompt on YC]
Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation] &lt;Bentley, Current Events - Foreign&gt;
Stuart William Hughes Rawlins drew a map for the Baligeni Expedition while serving in this unit in 1904, and Roald Dahl was also a member of it. For 10 points each:
Identify this colonial military force, formed from separate Ugandan and East and Central African units by the British in 1902.
This future dictator of Uganda was a member of the King's African Rifles and proclaimed himself "Conqueror of the British Empire." He took power from Milton Obote.
The King's African Rifles fought in an "emergency" named for this no-longer-extant country in the late 1940s. This country was formed after World War II from British territories such as Sarawak.
King's African Rifles [or KAR]
Idi Amin [or Idi Amin Dada]
Federation of Malaya [or British Malaya; accept Malayan Emergency; do not accept or prompt on "Malaysia"; do not accept or prompt on "Malayan Union"] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
In 1358, supporters of Étienne Marcel (ay-tee-EN mar-SELL) killed two advisers to the man who held this title and forced him to reaffirm the Ordinance of 1357. For 10 points each:
Identify this title given to the heir apparent to the French throne. It's equivalent to the Prince of Wales in the United Kingdom.
Several men claimed to be this king's son, the "Lost Dauphin," following the Bourbon Restoration. This king was executed during the French Revolution.
The dauphin targeted by Étienne Marcel's insurrection was this future king known as "the Wise," who signed the Treaty of Brétigny to free his father John the Good from the English.
Dauphin (DOFF-in or doh-FAN) of France
Louis XVI [prompt on Louis]
Charles V [prompt on Charles] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Compared to their ancestral home, a very low percentage of Americans with this ethnicity are practicing Muslims. For 10 points each:
Identify this ethnic group, which grew significantly in the late 1970s and early '80s. The Westwood neighborhood in Los Angeles is sometimes nicknamed for the high concentration of people of this ethnicity living there.
Around 50,000 Iranians in Los Angeles practice this faith. The Likud party was helped by a large immigration of Persians of this faith to cities such as Tel Aviv.
This other Westside "Tehrangeles" neighborhood became infamous in the 1990s when Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson were found stabbed to death in a condo here.
Iranian-Americans [or Persian-Americans; accept Little Persia; prompt on Tehrangeles]
Judaism [or Jewish]
Brentwood &lt;Bentley, Geography - United States&gt;
This man's great-grandfather, Marcus Sergius Silus, was supposedly the first Roman soldier to do battle with a prosthetic hand. For 10 points each:
Identify this man who advocated the cancellation of debt as part a 63 BCE campaign. This man was killed fighting at Pistoria after launching a namesake conspiracy that was exposed by Cicero.
Cicero persuaded this body, of which he was a member, to issue an "Ultimate Decree" against Catiline. Consuls were drawn from this longstanding Roman institution, and its members could also appoint dictators.
Before launching his conspiracy, Catiline had participated in this conflict. The assassination of Marcus Livius Drusus kicked off this conflict, in which Rome fought the Marsi and Samnites.
Catiline [or Lucius Sergius Catilina]
Roman Senate [or Senatus Romanus]
Social War [or Italic War; or Italian War; or War of the Allies] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The Guanahatabey (GWAH-na-HA-ta-bay) Culture on this island appears to have subsisted on only seafood and vegetables. For 10 points each:
Name this island which was occupied by the Ciboney (see-bo-NAY) peoples before Spanish colonization. After moving here, a cacique (ka-SEE-kay) named Hatuey organized one of the first anti-Spanish resistances.
The Ciboney peoples are a subgroup of this culture, which are a subgroup of the Arawak. They cultivated the cassava (ka-SAH-va) plant and feared the evil god Huracan, who gives his name to the word "hurricane."
This Genoese explorer, who traded with the Taíno, was unable to speak with the Guanahatabey since their language was vastly different. He reached the New World in 1492.
Cuba [or Republic of Cuba]
Taíno (tah-EE-no) [or Island Taíno]
Christopher Columbus [or Cristóbal Colón; or Cristoforo Colombo; or Cristòffa Cónbo] &lt;Jose, History - World&gt;
Cape Town's mayor Patricia de Lille gives daily radio messages about conserving this rapidly dwindling resource. For 10 points each:
Identify this resource. China is building pipelines to deliver this resource to cities such as Beijing, about 100 gallons of which are used every day by US citizens.
This water-rich country has a growing bottled water export industry. In 2016, the Prime Minister of this country resigned following revelations that he used Mossack Fonseca to stash money in the British Virgin Islands.
In 2015, officials in this city had to give police escorts to water trucks to prevent looting. The B3 stock exchange based in this city is the largest in South America.
drinking water
Iceland
São Paulo &lt;Bentley, Current Events - Foreign&gt;
The Archbishop of Pisa was hanged by a mob from the Palazzo Vecchio following this conspiracy. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1478 plot. Jacopo, a member of this plot's namesake family, was defenestrated and thrown into the Arno for his role in it.
Giuliano, a member of this family, was stabbed to death in the Pazzi Conspiracy. Lorenzo the Magnificent, another member of this prominent Florentine banking family, was able to escape.
This man watched the execution of Bernardo di Bandino Baroncelli following the Pazzi conspiracy. Lorenzo de Medici sent him bearing a silver lyre in the form of a horse's head to make peace with Ludovico Sforza, a ruler who would become his long-term patron.
Pazzi conspiracy
Medici
Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
At age 11, Elizabeth I completed a translation of <em>Mirror of the Sinful Soul</em>, a mystical poem by a woman with this first name who was the wife of Henry II of Navarre. For 10 points each:
Give this first name of the sister of Francis II, who patronized authors such as François Rabelais and wrote The Heptameron. A woman of this name from the House of Anjou was the wife of Henry VI of England.
In her essay "Marguerite of Navarre," Marilynne Robinson argues that Marguerite's mystical poetry influenced the theology this reformer presented in his Institutes of the Christian Religion.
Marguerite encouraged and protected the proto-Protestant reformer Jacques Lefèvre d'Étaples (zhock luh-FEV day-TOP), a friend of this Dutch humanist. This man wrote In Praise of Folly while living with Thomas More.
Marguerite [or Margaret]
John Calvin [or Jean Calvin; or Jehan Cauvin]
Desiderius Erasmus [or Erasmus of Rotterdam] &lt;Brownstein, History - European&gt;
The number of sexual harassment suits in the US doubled in the five years following Anita Hill's testimony at this man's confirmation hearing. For 10 points each:
Identify this African American confirmed to the Supreme Court in 1991.
In 1977, Paulette Barnes filed a suit after being fired from this government agency for refusing sexual advances from a superior. This agency was founded during the Nixon administration and set regulations for catalytic converters.
Susan Antilla's book Tales from the Boom-Boom Room details her quest to get justice for sexual harassment at businesses in this title location. A newspaper named for this location was founded by Charles H. Dow and is now owned by Rupert Murdoch.
Clarence Thomas
EPA [or Environmental Protection Agency]
Wall Street [or Wall Street Journal; do NOT accept "New York" as that's not in the name of the paper] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
This man had a vision in which George Washington, the leader of the Thirteen Fires, declares, "I shall let [your people] live and go back to the places that are theirs for they are an independent people." For 10 points each:
Identify this man who delivered the Good Message, also called his namesake "Code," to his people, thus founding the Longhouse Religion.
Handsome Lake's Longhouse Religion was practiced by members of this Native American confederacy that includes tribes such as the Oneida and Mohawk.
Smohalla was a leader of a religion named for experiencers of these things that was popular in the Pacific Northwest. The Ojibwe made willow hoops to "catch" these things.
Handsome Lake [or Sganyadái:yo; or Sganyodaiyo]
Iroquois Confederacy [or Haudenosaunee]
dreams [accept Dreamers or dream catchers] &lt;Bentley, RMP - Other Religion&gt;
A 1717 act sometimes called the Piracy Act provided for this punishment as an alternative to execution in cases of "robbery, burglary, and other felonies." For 10 points each:
Identify this type of sentence, also applied to many Irish during the campaigns of Oliver Cromwell.
People convicted of treason might first undergo this punishment before being cut down so that they could be drawn and quartered. A gallows was usually used to administer this form of execution.
Englishmen who refused to plea to a crime were subject to this "forceful and hard punishment" until they changed their mind or died. Giles Corey died from this punishment during the Salem Witch Trials.
transportation to a penal colony [accept equivalents like being shipped to a British colony]
hanging
pressing [or crushing; accept obvious equivalents of having objects or weights placed on the body] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
During the "Scramble for Africa," this European power colonized Guinea-Bissau and Angola. For 10 points each:
Name this Iberian country that lost many of its Lusophone African colonies during the Estado Novo government.
In this former Portuguese colony, a protracted civil war between the Marxist group FRELIMO and anti-Communist party RENAMO lasted for almost two decades.
Portugal became the first European power to colonize Africa after it conquered this city in the 15th century. Since the 1688 Treaty of Lisbon, Spain has controlled two exclaves on the Moroccan coast, this city and Melilla.
Portugal [or the Portuguese Empire]
Republic of Mozambique
Ceuta (SYOO-tah or say-OO-tah) &lt;Jose, History - World&gt;
In a practice named for this month, people would be baptized and given new names such as Lenin, Marx, or Engels. For 10 points each:
Identify this month that names the 1917 revolution in which the Bolsheviks seized power.
Another common post-Octobering name was this one, the name of the official newspaper of the Soviet Union. Lenin once edited this paper, whose name means "truth."
Membership in this youth organization swelled following the October Revolution. After aging out of the Little Octobrists and Pioneers, young adults would join this organization.
October
Pravda
Komsomol [or All-Union Leninist Young Communist League; or Vsesoyuzny Leninsky Kommunistichesky Soyuz Molodyozhi] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
See if you "know your onions" by answering these questions on stuff popular in the 1920s, for 10 points each.
Shipwreck Kelly was a record holder in this activity, once doing it for 49 days in Atlantic City. A plank was usually placed on top of the namesake objects in this activity.
Female swimming took off after Gertrude Ederle swam the English Channel. Ederle was celebrated with one of these types of Manhattan parades in which paper with stock prices was thrown out the windows.
Alma Cummings popularized these "corn and callus carnivals" with a 27-hour performance with 6 partners in 1923. Seattle tried to ban these events after a woman spent 19 days competing in one but only came in fifth.
flagpole sitting
ticker-tape parade
dance marathons [or walk-a-thons; or bunion derbies; or dance-a-thons; prompt on dance contests] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
In England, an 1828 Act of Parliament required that people sent to these places have a certificate from a doctor and an order of detention from a judge. For 10 points each:
Identify these places, examples of which include Bethlem in London.
One patient of Bethlem Royal Hospital was Edward Oxford, a man who was put on trial for attempting to assassinate this British monarch when she was riding in a carriage with her husband, Prince Albert.
This American woman exposed the horrors at Blackwell's Island Asylum in her muckraking expose, 10 Days in a Madhouse. She also participated in a race around the world inspired by Jules Verne.
mental institutions [or mental hospitals; or madhouses; or lunatic asylums; or mental asylums; or psychiatric hospitals; prompt on hospitals; prompt on institutions]
Victoria [or Queen Victoria I; or Alexandrina Victoria]
Nellie Bly [or Elizabeth Cochrane Seaman or Elizabeth Jane Cochran] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
One writer asserted that this group was both everything and nothing, and that it was opposed by more privileged orders that were a "malignant tumor" on society. For 10 points each:
Identify this group that was defined by the Abbé Sieyès (ah-BAY s’yay-YESS) in an influential pamphlet whose title asks "what" it is.
The members of the third estate, finding that the doors of their meeting hall at Versailles (vair-SIGH) were locked, moved to one of these sporting facilities and swore a namesake oath.
During the ancien régime (on-s’YEN ray-JEEM), bourgeoisie (boor-jwah-ZEE) of the Third Estate who became members of the Second Estate by holding administrative posts or purchasing titles were known as "nobility of" this sort of item, in contrast to the older class of "nobles of the sword."
the third estate [accept What Is the Third Estate?; accept le tiers-état]
indoor tennis court [or salle du jeu de paume]
the robe [or the gown] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
The first edition of this project divided the races of man into American, European, Asiatic, African and "monstrous." For 10 points each:
Identify this reference work whose first edition was largely edited by the Edinburgh-based former underwear maker William Smellie.
An earlier English reference text by "Technical" Harris supposedly had entries written by this author of Principia Mathematica and co-inventor of calculus.
The most contentious article in the landmark French Encyclopédie was one by d'Alembert (dah-lom-BAIR) on this city that asserted that its residents were deists. Michael Servetus was executed in this city.
Encyclopedia Britannica [prompt on Encyclopedia]
Isaac Newton
Geneva [or Geneve; or Genf; or Ginevra] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Along with a radio, sewing machine and watch, these items were part of the "three rounds and a sound" possessions that a typical post-war Chinese family owned. For 10 points each:
Identify these objects, mass-produced examples of which include the Flying Pigeon. Dockless ones now clog Chinese cities.
One of these appliances constituted the "three sacred treasures" marketed to Japanese consumers in the 1960s. Albert Einstein and Leó Szilárd (SEE-lard) patented a version of these devices without any moving parts.
Another sacred treasure was this device, which would often be tuned to an NHK station. Toshiba made the first integrated circuit type of these entertainment devices that could show a color image.
bicycles [or bikes]
refrigerators [or fridge]
televisions [or TVs] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
During this war, the U.S. Army required recruits to pass an intelligence test that included multiple-choice questions such as "A house is better than a tent, because…." For 10 points each:
Name this conflict in which the American Expeditionary Force broke the stalemate on the Western Front.
During World War I, Herbert Hoover led a campaign that encouraged homemakers to make use of the "victory" types of these things to save resources for the troops.
Hoover helped secure the 1928 Republican nomination by overseeing relief efforts for one of these natural disasters a year earlier. Arkansas was particularly hard hit by the 1927 instance of one of these disasters.
World War I [or the First World War]
victory gardens [or war gardens]
flood of the Mississippi River [prompt on river flood] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
Merchants in this one-time market town built a hall for the trade of white cloth, and in the 19th century erected a domed Corn Exchange. For 10 points each:
Identify this English city in West Yorkshire, the third most populous city in the United Kingdom.
There are 91 locks on one of these routes that connects Leeds to Liverpool. Many of these projects were constructed in England prior to the invention of the railroad due to the cost of land transportation.
The Yorkshire-born radio presenter Wilfred Pickles was the first person to broadcast on the BBC in a regional accent rather than this "standard" one, which is abbreviated RP.
Leeds [or City of Leeds]
canals [or navigations; prompt on artificial waterways]
Received Pronunciation [prompt on RP; do not accept other answers like "The Queen's English" since they aren't abbreviated RP] &lt;Bentley, Geography - Europe&gt;
By 835, Aghlabid forces were using this substance in battle. For 10 points each:
Identify this weapon useful in naval warfare because it continued to burn even when placed on water. This incendiary substance is named for the Byzantines, who first used it.
The Great Mosque of Qairawan, built by the Aghlabids in this modern-day country, was once the second holiest pilgrimage site in Islam. The Arab Spring started when Mohamed Bouazizi set himself on fire in this country in 2010.
The Aghlabids lost power to this Shia dynasty, whose leaders made Mahdia their first capital. The al-Azhar Mosque was built in this dynasty's second capital after a conquest by General Jawhar under Caliph Al-Mu'izz.
Greek fire [or sea fire; or Roman fire; or liquid fire; or sticky fire; or manufactured fire; or war fire]
Tunisia [or Republic of Tunisia; or Tunis]
Fatimid Caliphate [or Fatimid Dynasty] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Marshal Louis-Hubert Lyautey is profiled in a recent book on this group. For 10 points each:
Identify this French military unit founded in 1831, but not open to native-born citizens until 1881.
The French Foreign Legion was established by Louis Philippe during the conquest of this country, which was ruled at the time by Ahmed Bey. The Évian (ayv-YAWN) Accords ended a bloody war of independence here.
In 1835, the Foreign Legion was employed by Maria Cristina, the consort of Ferdinand VIII, to put down a rebellion of this faction. This group was an offshoot of the clerical-friendly apostólico faction and opposed the Constitution of 1812.
French Foreign Legion [or Légion étrangère]
Algeria [or People's Democratic Republic of Algeria]
Carlists [or Carlism; or Carilismo] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Men whose claim on this title extended earlier than the Tokugawa Shogunate were known as <em>tozama</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this title of the men who controlled most of the land in Tokugawa Japan.
During the Tokugawa period, the most profitable hans were controlled by the descendants of men who fought with Ieyasu at this battle. Ishida Mitsunari was defeated at this battle on October 21, 1600.
To reduce the possibility that they were planning rebellions, daimyō were required to spend half their time in this capital of the Tokugawa Shogunate, known as Edo at the time.
daimyō [anti-prompt on shinpan or fudai]
Battle of Sekigahara
Tokyo [or Tokyo Metropolis] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
In one work by this artist, a corpulent man with his hands in his pockets has a sack of money for a head. For 10 points each:
Identify this artist who drew The "Brains." Another of his works features the caption, "What are you going to do about it?" beneath a tiger who has mauled a person in a Roman stadium.
Samuel Tilden helped bring down this frequent target of Nast, a corrupt politician who embezzled as much as two hundred million dollars from Tammany Hall.
Opponents of Boss Tweed organized a reform platform at this place in 1871. Abraham Lincoln gave his longest speech here in 1860 in an address that concerned the government's power to regulate slavery.
Thomas Nast
Boss Tweed [or William Marcy Tweed; or William Magear Tweed]
Cooper Union [or The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
In his only surviving speech, this probably-legendary figure takes Leocrates to task for fleeing to Athens after the Battle of Chaeronea. For 10 points each:
Identify this man credited with obtaining the Great Rhetra constitution and establishing the agōgē (ah-GO-gee) education system.
The oldest source to discuss Lycurgus is by this native of Halicarnassus, who helped found the discipline of history with his history of the wars between the Greeks and the Persians.
Lycurgus's reforms supposedly bound these state slaves of Sparta to areas of land, not owners. According to Herodotus, they outnumbered the Spartans seven to one.
Lycurgus the Lawgiver
Herodotus
helots &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
Andrew Humphreys' book on the "Golden Age of Travel" along this river describes Europeans spending months travelling in dahabiya boats on it. For 10 points each:
Name this river. The source of its White tributary was found by John Hanning Speke.
By the late 19th century, the company named for this man had exclusive rights to passenger steamship operations on the Nile. This Fleet Street merchant's travel books popularized his namesake quick trips through a country among the masses.
Cruising the Nile became popular again with the opening of one of these businesses in Cairo in 1959. American POWs in Vietnam nicknamed the Hỏa Lò Prison the "Hanoi" one of these places.
Nile River [or en-Nil; or an-Nil]
Thomas Cook [accept Cook's tour]
Hilton hotel [or Hilton Hotels &amp; Resorts; prompt on hotel] &lt;Bentley, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
This cabinet department's Washington headquarters flies a special flag when its current head, Ryan Zinke (zinky), is in the building. For 10 points each:
Identify this cabinet department that oversees the Office of Insular Affairs and Bureau of Indian Affairs.
This state was exempted from Zinke's Gulf of Mexico drilling plan in what Politico reported was staged as a political win for Governor Rick Scott. The Parkland School Shooting took place in this state.
It's not the Grand Staircase-Escalante monument, but Donald Trump agreed to Zinke's recommendation to reduce the scope of this National Monument in San Juan County, Utah. The name of this monument comes from its distinctive twin buttes (byoots).
United States Department of the Interior [or DOI]
Florida
Bears Ears National Monument &lt;Bentley, Current Events - United States&gt;
An encyclopedia in this field was written in the early 10th century by al-Razi. For 10 points each:
Identify this field whose medieval Muslim practitioners studied books such as the Qanun by Ibn Sina alongside Greek texts by Hippocrates.
al-Razi worked in this city, the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate. The House of Wisdom was located in this city.
The physician Abu al-Qasim did pioneering work on dissections and removing bladder stones in this city. Abd ar-Rahman III ruled from this city, whose massive Great Mosque contained a Court of the Oranges and was converted to a Catholic cathedral in 1236.
medicine [or surgery; or health; or medical science; or equivalents; accept The Canon of Medicine or al-Qānūn fī al-Ṭibb]
Baghdad
Cordoba [or Cordova] &lt;Bentley, History - World&gt;
Identify the following about early anti-Protestant measures in France, for 10 points each.
Henry II let this religious organization, founded by Ignatius of Loyola, set up a college in Paris in 1551.
Several phases of the French Wars of Religion were instigated by this woman, the widow of Henry II and regent to three of her sons. She was blamed for the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre.
Anti-Protestant persecution increased after this event in 1534 where the namesake broadsheets were put up around Paris denouncing the Catholic mass.
Jesuits [or Society of Jesus; or Societas Iesu]
Catherine de' Medici [or Caterina de' Medici; or Catherine de Medicis]
Affair of the Placards [or Affaire des Placards] &lt;Bentley, History - European&gt;
In the 19th century, people addicted to this drug were said to suffer from the "soldier's disease" due to the widespread addiction rates of injured Civil War soldiers. For 10 points each:
Name this drug from which morphine is derived. Two 19th-century wars in China are named for this drug.
Opium was first federally regulated by this 1915 act named for a New York Congressman. The 1925 case of Linder v. United States overturned this bill's authority to target doctors for prescribing opium.
This laudanum addict entered a severe depression following the death of her son Willie from typhoid fever. In 1872, she was photographed by William H. Mumler with the "ghost" of her slain husband.
opium [or poppy tears]
Harrison Narcotics Tax Act
Mary Todd Lincoln [or Mary Ann Todd Lincoln; or Mary Ann Todd] &lt;Bentley, History - American&gt;
A type of intercontinental ballistic missiles with this name makes up most of the United States' land-based nuclear capacity. For 10 points each:
Identify these people, some of whom served under John Parker during the morning of April 19th, 1775.
This silversmith, along with William Dawes, warned minutemen companies in towns such as Lexington of the imminent British approach during his namesake Midnight Ride.
Some of the first Revolutionary-era minutemen units were formed when General Thomas Gage removed some of this material from a building in Somerville, Massachusetts in 1774, sparking a namesake alarm amongst colonists.
minutemen [or minuteman; or minnit men]
Paul Revere
gunpowder &lt;Bentley&gt;
The first of this movement's namesake establishments was set up in Millbury, Massachusetts by Josiah Holbrook. For 10 points each:
Identify this adult-education movement in the antebellum United States, whose name connects it to Ancient Greece. Following the Civil War, this movement became conflated with the Chautauqua movement.
One regular lecturer on the lyceum circuit was this former Maryland slave, who established the North Star newspaper.
In the 19th century, many students memorized a speech supposedly given by this Duwamish chief. This namesake of a Western city contrasts the multitudes of the "Big Chief at Washington" with his people, who "resemble the scattering trees of a storm-swept plain".
lyceum movement
Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
Chief Seattle [or Chief Sealth] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Some of the leaders of the women's suffrage movement in the United States didn't always have the most progressive views on other issues. For 10 points each:
This woman complained that "the ignorant Irishman in the ditch" was able to vote, but women were not. She lost many of her supporters after publishing a book which tried to counter Christian arguments against women's rights titled The Woman's Bible.
The National Woman Suffrage Association ordered that all black delegates march in the rear of a parade agitating for women's suffrage at this man's 1913 inauguration. The 19th Amendment was ratified during his presidency.
A generation earlier, this escaped slave outraged many of the white women in the audience when she declared "nobody helps me into carriages or over mud puddles, or gives me any best place" in her "Ain't I a Woman" speech.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton [or Elizabeth Cady]
Woodrow Wilson [or Thomas Woodrow Wilson]
Sojourner Truth [or Isabella Baumfree or Bell Baumfree] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The decision of these bodies was for the most part final, although death penalty verdicts could be appealed to the chancillería. For 10 points each:
Identify these royal bodies in Spanish-controlled America that were also tasked with handling Indian affairs. The first of these bodies in the Americas was established in Santo Domingo in 1511.
This conquistador sought to get around the Governor of Cuba by founding his own settlement of Villa Rica de la Vera Cruz that would be accountable directly to the King of Spain. This man conquered the Aztec Empire.
Cortés' clash with Beltran Nuno de Guzman helped end the First Audiencia that governed this colony, which included all of modern-day Mexico along with large portions of the United States.
audiencias
Hernán Cortés [or Fernando Cortés; or Hernando Cortés]
New Spain [or Nueva España] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about massive power outages, for 10 points each.
In July 2012, over 600 million people in the northern half of this country were affected by the largest power outage in history. The outage put pressure on then-Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's plan to improve its power grid.
The entire country of Paraguay lost power for 15 minutes in 2009 after transformers at this dam on the Paraná River short-circuited.
After a 1998 storm and subsequent blackout, this country responded with its largest military deployment since the Korean War. This country's McGill University used the blackout to study the effects of stress on pregnant women.
India [or Republic of India; or Bharat Ganarajya]
Itaipu Dam
Canada &lt;Shimizu&gt;
This period began after the Governor of Elba took leave to mainland Italy to visit a mistress, allowing Napoleon an opportunity to escape. For 10 points each:
Give this name for the period between Napoleon's return from exile and his final defeat at Waterloo. Since Franklin Roosevelt, US Presidents have sought to turn the country around in this many days following their inauguration.
This Prussian general at Waterloo had been defeated and injured by Napoleon a few days earlier at Ligny (leen-YEE). Nicknamed "Marshall Forwards," he went insane later in life, believing that he was pregnant with an elephant.
During the Hundred Days, Joachim Murat, the "Dandy King" of this Napoleonic kingdom, fought a war against the Austrian Empire. This kingdom was unified with another following Murat's defeat.
Hundred Days [or les Cent-Jours]
Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher, Fürst von Wahlstatt [or Fürst von Wahlstatt]
Kingdom of Naples &lt;Bentley&gt;
This period marks the second of three devised by Christian Jurgensen Thomsen. For 10 points each:
Name this period of human history, during which England's Wessex culture developed and the Minoan civilization flourished. The Greek Dark Ages began after the collapse of the civilizations from this period.
During the Bronze Age, this device was first put to practical use in Eurasia. The first spoked examples of these devices began appearing on chariots in Asia Minor around 2000 BCE.
During the Bronze Age, tin was often smelted with copper traded from this island, which was then called Alasiya. Guy of Lusignan purchased this island from the Templars in 1192.
Bronze Age
the wheel
Cyprus &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man worked with Gerhard Johann David von Scharnhorst to reform the Prussian army after he was released from captivity following the Battle of Jena <strong>(YEN-ah)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Identify this general who led the Military Academy at Berlin from 1818 to 1830. This man's best known text advocated fighting decisive battles to completely defeat the enemy.
Clausewitz, who wrote a book titled for this subject, defined it as "merely the continuation of policy by other means." Sun Tzu wrote a text on the art of this practice.
This French politician defined war as a "series of catastrophes followed by a victory." This prime minister earned the nickname "The Tiger".
Carl von Clausewitz [or Carl Philipp Gottlieb von Clausewitz]
war [or warfare; or On War; or Vom Kriege]
Georges Clemenceau &lt;Bentley&gt;
Though this man was originally seen as a conservative, after becoming an Archbishop he spoke out against his government's human rights abuses. For 10 points each:
Name this Archbishop who was gunned down while giving mass. He was beatified by Pope Francis in 2015, and was considered a proponent of liberation theology.
Romero hailed from this smallest country in Central America, which fought a devastating civil war throughout the 1980s. Earlier it fought the Soccer War with its neighbor Honduras.
The U.N.-approved Truth Commission for El Salvador blamed this death squad leader and founder of the ARENA party for Romero's assassination.
Oscar Romero
El Salvador
Roberto D'Aubuisson (DAHB-wee-sawn) &lt;Raje&gt;
The law of the Midi proscribed that people guilty of this crime had to run naked through a course as an official tried to whip the guilty party. For 10 points each:
Name this crime. When people were caught committing this crime in flagrante delicto in the Middle Ages, it was often justifiable for the husband who discovered the crime to murder his wife or the other guilty party.
An adulterous couple could get back together after a two-year trial period according to this law code, which was officially called the Corpus Juris Civilis and was compiled by scholars under Tribonian in the 6th century.
The tradition of Roman law, which held that only women could be guilty of adultery, originated with this Roman law code of the 5th century BCE, which was drawn up after a plebeian secession and is named for its number of statutes.
adultery [prompt on synonyms such as infidelity or cheating; prompt on fornication or extramarital sex]
Code of Justinian [or Codex Justinianus]
Law of the Twelve Tables [or Leges Duodecim Tabularum; or Duodecim Tabulae] &lt;Bentley&gt;
One of these things was run by <em>Literary Digest</em> starting in 1916 from mails sent to up to ten million people. For 10 points each:
Identify these important tools in modern American politics. An organization which frequently conducts these things was founded by George Gallup.
Even though it received 2.3 million responses, the runners of the Literary Digest poll badly mis-predicted the results of the election in this year due to self-selection bias. Gallup correctly predicted that the Governor of Kansas would not win the election held in this year.
Gallup himself was embarrassed by failing to predict the result of the 1948 election. The most infamous organization to get the results of that election wrong was this newspaper, which ran the headline "Dewey Defeats Truman".
presidential polls [prompt on surveys]
US Presidential Election of 1936
Chicago Daily Tribune [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Originally, this group included eight companies, including Arthur Young and Touche Ross. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the companies PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Ernst &amp; Young, Deloitte, and KPMG, which perform most of the audits of publicly traded companies in the world.
Arthur Andersen, the most recent member to drop from the grouping, was dissolved after the scandal centering on this former energy company based in Texas broke in 2001.
Arthur Andersen never actually filed for this status, in which a company or individual is unable to repay creditors. Its "Chapter 7" form involves corporate liquidation, while its "Chapter 11" form permits reorganization.
Big Four accounting firms
Enron Corporation
bankruptcy &lt;Jose&gt;
In a series of riots named for this book, a woman named Jenny Geddes supposedly chucked a cutty stool at some officials in St. Giles in Edinburgh. For 10 points each:
Identify this controversial liturgical text. Thomas Cranmer compiled the first version of this book following the 1549 Act of Uniformity.
The Second Prayer Book issued by Edward VI was heavily revised by this queen, whose persecution of Protestants led to her epithet, "Bloody."
The Book of Common Prayer was revised at the Hampton Court Conference, a meeting better known for commissioning this project. Richard Bancroft oversaw this project.
Book of Common Prayer [or Prayer Book]
Mary I [or Bloody Mary; or Mary Tudor; do not accept "Mary Queen of Scots"]
King James Bible [or King James Version; or Authorized Version of the Bible; prompt on English Bible or KJV] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This thinker drew upon his experiences studying at the Colorado State College of Education to criticize American culture in his 1951 essay "The America I Have Seen." For 10 points each:
Name this leading member of the Muslim Brotherhood, who suggested that modern Muslims were living in a state of jahiliyyah (jah-HEE-lee-yah), or ignorance, in his Milestones. He also emphasized the comprehensive nature of Islam in Social Justice in Islam.
In a chapter of Milestones titled after this concept, Qutb criticized those who confine this concept to defensive war. This concept, which can be translated as "struggle," has been used to justify wars against non-Muslims.
Qutb was from this country, the location of Al-Azhar University, a major center of Islamic learning.
Sayyid Qutb (KOO-tub)
jihad
Egypt [accept Misr or Masr] &lt;Cheng&gt;
Once a Roman was no longer one of these people, he would likely cut his long hair and adopt additional names until he had three of them. For 10 points each:
Identify this class of people, some of whom rebelled alongside the gladiator Spartacus in the Third Servile War.
A former slave named Caenis was the mistress and de facto wife of this Roman emperor, whose dynasty ended after the rules of his sons Titus and Domitian.
According to Martial, Earinus dedicated some of his hair to the cult of Asclepius in this hometown of the physician Galen. The Attalid dynasty ruled a Hellenistic kingdom from this city in modern-day Turkey.
Roman slave [or escaped slave]
Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Caesar Vespasianus Augustus; prompt on Flavius]
Pergamon [or Pergamum] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Brave soldiers from this civilization might have received the "Flies of Valor" for their service. For 10 points each:
Identify this civilization, whose kings were often depicted holding a captive by the hair, about to strike with a khopesh. A ruler of this civilization bragged about his military victories on the Israel Stele, unearthed by Flinders Petrie.
This "great" Egyptian pharaoh presumably awarded some Flies of Valor to his troops which fought in the Siege of Dapur. This pharaoh clashed with Muwatalli II at the Battle of Kadesh in 1274 BCE.
The 1274 BCE Battle of Kadesh was not Ramses's first time fighting over Kadesh. In 1306 BCE, Ramses joined this man, his father, in a victory over the Hittites which briefly seized the city for Egypt.
Ancient Egyptian
Ramses II [or Ramesses II or Rameses II or Ramses the Great]
Seti I [or Sethos I] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This kingdom's rule reached a zenith under Taharqo, a ruler who built a massive temple at Gempaaten and who is commemorated in a sculpture depicting him as a Sphinx. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient kingdom, whose rulers, or qores, made up the 25th Dynasty of pharaohs. This kingdom spanned much of Sudan and had its capitals at Napata and Meroë (MARE-oh-ay).
The northern boundary of the Kingdom of Kush is traditionally set at the first cataract of this river system. This river system empties into the Mediterranean at its namesake "delta."
This son of King Kashta was the second Kushite pharaoh. He is primarily remembered for commissioning a namesake stone that contains a reproduction of the Memphite Theology, which contains the origin story of Ptah.
Kingdom of Kush
The Nile River
Shabaka [or Shabaqo] &lt;Jose&gt;
This man's naturalist works include <em>Notes on Some of the Birds of Oyster Bay, Long Island</em> and <em>Hunting Trips of a Ranchman: Sketches of Sport on the Northern Cattle Plains</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this onetime Assistant Secretary of the Navy and Governor of New York whose book Through the Brazilian Wilderness chronicled his nearly fatal 1913 to 1914 tropical misadventure.
Roosevelt's other writing includes a biography of the Missouri Senator Thomas Hart Benton. This other President, with Ted Sorensen, included Benton in his popular Profiles in Courage. He was the country's first Catholic president.
Two years after his Benton biography, Roosevelt chronicled the life of this Pennsylvanian. You can thank this member of the Committee of Style at the Constitutional Convention for giving us decimal coinage.
Theodore Roosevelt [or Teddy Roosevelt; or TR]
John Fitzgerald Kennedy [or JFK; or Jack Kennedy]
Gouverneur Morris Sr. &lt;Bentley&gt;
This politician's family was supposedly cursed after his great-grandfather massacred some followers of Cylon. For 10 points each:
Identify this son of Megacles who turned to the Athenian people for support after the Spartans tried to replace him with Isagoras. He is often grouped as the fourth Athenian reformer after Draco, Solon, and Pisistratus.
Cleisthenes is generally held to be the founder of this system of government in Athens. Meetings at the Ecclesia were a central feature of this system.
Before his exile, Cleisthenes held this Athenian office, which was held concurrently by the city's three chief magistrates held concurrently. The highest-ranking holder of this title was known as the "eponymous" since he lent his name to the year, and the one who commanded the army was the polemarch.
Cleisthenes of Athens [or Clisthenes]
Athenian democracy
archon &lt;Bentley&gt;
This structure runs parallel to a shorter, earlier one named for Wat that runs from Basingwerk to Morda Brook. For 10 points each:
Identify this structure that once extended some 149 miles. It is named for the King of Mercia who ruled for most of the second half of the 8th century.
Offa's Dyke traditionally separated England from this constituent country to its West. The next in line for the British crown traditionally holds the title of prince of this place.
A century after Offa's reign, Mercia was incorporated into this region, the area of England that its namesake Scandinavian invaders ruled.
Offa's Dyke
Wales
Danelaw &lt;Bentley&gt;
The name of these documents comes from the lead used to seal them, and they were generally stamped with an image of the heads of Saints Peter and Paul. For 10 points each:
Identify these documents issued from the Vatican. These decrees, such as Unam Sanctam, are usually titled for the first few Latin words of their text.
This longest-reigning pope issued a series of influential bulls, including Ineffabilis Deus which outlined the concept of the Immaculate Conception. This "prisoner of the Vatican" also convened the First Vatican Council.
Pius VII's (the 7th's) papal bull, Sollicitudo omnium ecclesiarum, reestablished this group. In 1767, members of this organization were expelled from New Spain.
papal bulls
Pius IX[or Giovanni Maria Mastai-Ferretti; prompt on Pius]
Jesuits[or Society of Jesus] &lt;Bentley&gt;
These documents established a "league of friendship" whose purpose was for the "common defense". For 10 points each:
Identify these documents, drafted by a committee chaired by John Dickinson. Quebec was offered an opportunity to sign these documents, but refused.
It took until 1781 for this state to become the thirteenth and final state to ratify the Articles of Confederation. Samuel Chase was a Signer of the Declaration of Independence from this state before he became an impeached-but-not-convicted Supreme Court justice.
James Madison, unhappy with the Articles of Confederation, played up the dangers of this rebellion in Massachusetts. Benjamin Lincoln led the army which suppressed this rebellion of indebted Western farmers.
Articles of Confederation[or Articles of Confederationand Perpetual Union]
Maryland
Shays' Rebellion &lt;Bentley&gt;
Name these things that form American artificial reefs, for 10 points each.
Most artificial reefs are made by scuttling these objects, such as the Oriskany and the Massachusetts. Cape Hatteras is known as the "Graveyard of the Atlantic" because of the presence of these objects on the nearby ocean floor.
A gold-painted one of these objects commemorated the completion of the Osborne Reef in Florida, which was once made of them. Akron, Ohio was once home to four companies that made these objects.
Examples of these objects nicknamed "Redbirds" form a reef off the Delaware coast. Special R33 and R36 models of them were made for the 1964 World's Fair, and are now used in the IRT system.
ships [or shipwrecks; accept specific types of ship]
rubber tires [accept car or automobile tires]
New York City Subway cars [prompt on train cars] &lt;Shimizu&gt;
This group's origins trace back to an incident in 1348 when the king picked up an object of a dancing partner that had fallen to the ground. For 10 points each:
Identify this most prestigious military honor in England, higher than the Knights of the Thistle. The Bishop of Winchester always serves as the Prelate of this organization.
The Order of the Garter was founded by the third English king with this name, whose son of the same name was known as the Black Prince. The first English king of this name was known as Longshanks.
One of the founding Knights of the Garter, John Chandos, fought with Edward the Black Prince at Crécy and this later battle of the Hundred Years War, where King John II of France was captured.
The Most Noble Order of the Garter [or Knights of the Garter]
Edward
Battle of Poitiers (pwaht-YAY) &lt;Bentley&gt;
After being kidnapped from his home in what is now Sierra Leone, Joseph Cinque killed two men aboard this ship in a slave revolt. For 10 points each:
Name this vessel whose slaves revolted and killed their colonial masters in 1839. In the Supreme Court case named for it, its occupants were ruled to be "free men" and not property.
The majority opinion in the Amistad case was written by this justice. Abolitionists later expressed consternation when his majority opinion in Prigg v. Pennsylvania overturned personal liberty laws for runaway slaves.
This man was the chief justice during the Amistad case. He also wrote the Dred Scott decision, ruling that Dred Scott was not a citizen of the U.S. and that he had no standing to sue for his own freedom.
La Amistad
Joseph Story
Roger Brooke Taney &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about dogs as they pertain to the geography of Great Britain, for 10 points each.
The Pembroke and Cardigan corgi breeds both originated in this constituent country of the United Kingdom, whose capital is Cardiff.
Both Norwich Terriers and Norfolk Terriers originate from this region in Great Britain, which includes the counties of Suffolk and Cambridgeshire. This region was also one of the kingdoms of the Anglo-Saxon heptarchy.
Ghostly black dogs are said to haunt Dartmoor in Devon, which borders this southwesternmost county of England. Truro is the most populous city in this county, which also lends its name to a type of small hybrid broiler chicken.
Wales [or Cymru; accept Welsh corgis]
East Anglia [prompt on Anglia]
Cornwall [accept Rock Cornish game hen] &lt;Jose&gt;
The forces of this modern-day country defeated an Austrian army led by Leopold I by throwing rocks and tree stumps on their heads during an ambush. For 10 points each:
Identify this country which won the 1315 Battle of Morgarten. This fiercely independent country provides the mercenaries who guard the Pope.
The Battle of Morgarten was one of the first to demonstrate the superiority of these weapons over mounted knights. Longer than a halberd, Swiss troops wielding these weapons would form namesake squares.
Victories at Morgarten and Sempach helped secured the independence of the Old Swiss Confederacy, an alliance which was largely replaced by this puppet state during the Napoleonic Wars. The name of this polity comes from a Gallic tribe that once lived in the Swiss plateau.
Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation]
pikes
Helvetic Republic &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about Mesoamerican agriculture, for 10 points each.
This crop was the tallest of the "Three Sisters" grown by many Mesoamerican cultures. Stone tools called the mano and metate were used by the Maya, among others, to grind this crop.
These rectangular parcels of land, often nicknamed "floating gardens," were constructed by the Aztecs along the shores of Lake Texcoco to grow maize, tomatoes, and many other crops.
Chili peppers grown on chinampas were sometimes used to flavor this foodstuff, which Moctezuma II and the Aztecs consumed in beverage form.
maize [or corn]
chinampas
chocolate [prompt on cocoa] &lt;Shimizu&gt;
During World War II, the British launched Operation Ironclad to keep Allied control of this modern-day country. For 10 points each:
Identify this country, where Christian missionaries were expelled in the early 19th century under its queen, Ranavalona I.
Colonial officials from this country were convinced that the 1947 Madagascar Revolt had been backed by either the British or the Americans. This country also colonized Niger and the Ivory Coast.
The Merina kingdom in Madagascar instituted a form of this practice, later employed by the French to provide labor to build railroads. The mit'a system in the incan Empire was another type of this system of forced labor.
Madagascar [or Republic of Madagascar]
France [or French Republic]
corvée [or statute labor] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Identify the following about the controversial Orders in Council, for 10 points each.
One version of the Orders in Council required American ships to pay steep taxes before they were allowed to trade with this country. The Convention of 1800, signed a few years earlier, had ended an undeclared war between the United States and this country.
James Madison once said that he would have delayed declaring this war with Great Britain if he had known that the Orders in Council had been rescinded. The Battle of New Orleans was fought after the peace treaty ending this war was signed.
In the buildup to the War of 1812, Anglo-American relations were hurt by the British bombardment of this ship in June of 1807 by the HMS Leopard off the coast of Norfolk. Thomas Jefferson passed the Embargo Act in retribution for the bombing of this ship.
France [or the First French Republic; or First French Empire]
War of 1812
USS Chesapeake &lt;Bentley&gt;
Among the causes of this event were its central figure's inexplicable seven-hour disappearance during the sinking of the ferry MV <em>Sewol</em> <strong>(SEH-wull)</strong> and that woman's close relationship with the daughter of Church of Eternal Life cult leader Choi Tae-min <strong>(ch'WAY TEH-meen)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Identify this political event whose result, confirmed in March 2017, resulted in Hwang Kyo-ahn assuming the post of Acting President.
Until her impeachment, Park Geun-hye (gun-HEH) was the president of this Asian nation. Under her leadership, relations with its northern neighbor had worsened.
Park's successor Moon Jae-in has pledged to reopen the Kaesong Industrial Complex, possibly as a step towards reviving this theory of reconciliatory foreign policy employed by Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun.
the impeachment of Park Geun-hye [accept synonyms for "impeachment" like "ouster"; prompt on but DO NOT REVEAL answers such as the impeachment of the South Korean President]
South Korea [or Republic of Korea; or ROK; or Taehan-min'guk; or Han'guk; prompt on "Korea"; do not accept or prompt on "North Korea" or "Democratic People's Republic of Korea"]
Sunshine policy [or Haetbyeot jeongchaek] &lt;Carson&gt;
A September 1940 photo of this building surrounded by smoke taken by Herbert Mason of the Associated Newspapers quickly became the iconic image of the Blitz. For 10 points each:
Name this building, which burned during that so-called "Second Great Fire" in World War II. This London cathedral was rebuilt by Christopher Wren in the 17th century.
This man controversially stated that "the Luftwaffe… didn't replace [buildings] with anything more offensive than rubble" in his 1987 Mansion House speech. This author of A Vision of Britain is known as the Duke of Rothesay in Scotland.
Old St. Paul's fell into a decrepit state following this action by Henry VIII, which were one of the causes of the Pilgrimage of Grace. Tintern Abbey was shuttered by this action.
St. Paul's Cathedral
Prince Charles [or Charles, Prince of Wales; or Charles Philip Arthur George]
dissolution of the monasteries [or suppression of the monasteries] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This practice was introduced into Medieval Europe by Robert II the Pious of France, who ordered that it be carried out on 16 people from Orleans. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice, a common means of execution for heretics and witches.
Polymath Michael Servetus, along with the supposedly last copy of his magnum opus, was controversially burned at the stake in this city in 1553. This city joined a Confederacy with Bern and other cities in the 16th century.
When Saint Dominic put a text of this sect and a page from the Bible into a fire, the Bible page miraculously survived. Members of this heretical sect could enter their elite class of ascetics, the Perfects, through the rite of consolamentum
burning at the stake
Geneva [or Geneve; or Genf; or Ginevra]
Cathars [or Albigensians] &lt;Bentley&gt;
In 1702, the <em>Daily Courant</em> became the first newspaper to open on this road. For 10 points each:
Identify this road in London, home to the headquarters of The Sun until 1986.
Bow Street lends its name to the first professional group of these type of people in London. A force of these people nicknamed bobbies for Robert Peel were unable to catch Jack the Ripper.
Another London road, Drury Lane, lends its name to a place to one of these businesses in Covent (KOH-vent) Garden. The King's Men worked in one of these businesses at Blackfriars.
Fleet Street
policemen [or police officers]
theatres [or playhouses; or stages] &lt;Bentley&gt;
One of these types of weapons used by the Romans was called an onager. For 10 points each:
Identify these types of weapons used to hurl large rocks at the enemy during sieges. They should not be confused with ballistas, which are sort of like giant crossbows.
This ancient inventor is credited with devising a catapult that could fling a 175-pound stone some 200 yards. He also came up with the idea of the compound pulley.
Warwolf, possibly the largest trebuchet ever constructed, was used to besiege a castle of this name in 1304. The Earl of Surrey and Hugh de Cressingham were defeated at a 1297 battle named for a different structure with this name.
catapult [anti-prompt on trebuchet]
Archimedes of Syracuse
Stirling [or Stirling Castle; or Stirling Bridge] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The first organization calling for a ban on this practice in the United States was formed in Alabama in 1901 by Edgar Gardner Murphy. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice, which was regulated under the 1916 Keating-Owen Act until that bill was struck down in the case of Hammer v. Dagenhart.
Child labor was effectively banned when this President signed the Fair Labor Standards Act into law. He also initiated the Works Progress Administration and the CCC.
New York State was an early leader in regulation banning child labor. The state also passed the Bakeshop Act, which was overturned in this landmark 1905 Supreme Court case.
child labor
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR]
Lochner v. New York [or Joseph Lochner, Plaintiff in Error v. People of the State of New York] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Muhammad Quli moved his capital from Golconda to this newly founded city in 1591 and constructed its landmark of Charminar. For 10 points each:
Identify this city in Andhra Pradesh, controlled by some namesake Nizams until Indian independence.
Many of the Nizams of Hyderabad are buried in a large one of these buildings in the city whose bricks were made from soil imported from Mecca. A "great" one of these buildings in Mecca was seized by gunmen in 1979.
A smaller scale replica of Charminar was erected in the Bahadurabad neighborhood of this city in 2007. In 1959, the Pakistani government moved its capital from this city to Islamabad.
Hyderabad (HYDRA-bad)
mosque [or masjid]
Karachi &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about the origins of staple foods in Hawai'ian cuisine, for 10 points each.
Soldiers bringing rations of this food in World War II increased its popularity in Hawai'i, where it is used in a "musubi" dish similar to a Japanese rice ball. This canned, ready-to-eat meat is made by Hormel Foods.
After emigrating to Hawai'i, people of this occupation known as paniolos made a dish called pipikaula, or "beef rope." In a more southerly region, people of this occupation employed the churrasco cooking technique.
Like the ukulele, the deep-fried malasada pastry was introduced to Hawai'i by workers from the Azores and Madeira, two territories owned by this European country.
Spam
cowboys [or vaqueros; or gauchos; or cattle ranchers]
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa] &lt;Shimizu&gt;
A king of this country named Perseus was defeated by the Romans under Aemilius Paullus at the Battle of Pydna and sent back to Rome in chains. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom which became the first of Rome's provinces following the defeat of Andriscus in its fourth and final war against Rome. This kingdom ruled by the Antigonid dynasty lost the Battle of Cynoscephalae.
The First Macedonian War took place while Rome was engaged in the second of its wars with this other empire. Hannibal, a general from this empire, invaded Italy in 218 BCE.
The Second Macedonian War was prompted by this king's adventures in the Mediterranean, including a defeat at the hands of Rhodes near Chios in 201 BCE. His son Demetrius was restored to him in 190 after keeping the peace with Rome for seven years.
Macedon [or Macedonia]
Carthage [or Carthaginian Empire]
Philip V [prompt on Philip] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about <em>lettres de cachet</em> <strong>(LET-ruh duh kah-SHAY)</strong>, one of the most feared weapons in a French monarch's political arsenal, for 10 points each.
They're not prisons, but an enemy of the king could be forcibly conveyed to one of these institutions without an appeal to the court via a lettre de cachet. Cluny was an example of one of these places, which monks inhabit.
René Nicolas Charles Augustin de Maupeou (moh-POO), who served as the first president of a Parisian institution of this name, used lettres de cachet to exile anti-royal members in the 1770s. This type of institution lends its name to the first of the Frondes.
The second lettre de cachet issued against this author of Letters on the English was for his dispute with the Chevalier de Rohan-Chabot (shuh-vahl-YAY duh roh-AWN-shah-BOH). This man often used the expression "crush the infamous!" in his letters to monarchs like Frederick II and Catherine the Great.
monastery [or abbey; do not accept "church"]
parlements of Paris
Voltaire [or François-Marie Arouet] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about recent state-level legislative efforts to target public protesters, for 10 points each.
One such since-defeated bill in North Dakota would have made motorists not liable for injuring protesters who deliberately obstructed traffic. The bill may be a response to the protests at this Native American reservation against the Dakota Access Pipeline.
A proposed bill in this state would make it a crime punishable by five years in prison for harassing public officials. The bill was in reaction to protesters yelling "shame" at former governor Pat McCrory, who passed a controversial bathroom bill in this state.
Legislators in this state have sought to make it easier to prosecute the "kayaktivists" protesting oil refineries in its Fidalgo Bay, near its port of Anacortes.
Standing Rock Indian Reservation
North Carolina
Washington &lt;Bentley&gt;
A man named Mongkut spent 25 years as a monk before becoming the king of this country in 1851. For 10 points each:
Name this country that has been ruled by several kings named Rama from the Chakri Dynasty since the 18th century.
This member of the Chakri Dynasty succeeded Mongkut. His reforms include ending the act of prostration in front of the king, and abolishing slavery.
Chulalongkorn waged the Haw Wars against former participants in this bloody foreign conflict. The leader of one side in this conflict was a member of the Hakka people who founded the God Worshipping Society after repeatedly failing the civil service exam.
Thailand [accept Siam]
Chulalongkorn [or Rama V]
Taiping Rebellion [or Taiping Civil War] &lt;Jose&gt;
Identify the following about times when 19th century newspaper tycoon James Gordon Bennett, Jr. didn't just report the news, he made the news, for 10 points each:
Bennett funded Henry Morgan Stanley's expedition to Africa to locate this man. Stanley famously "presumed" he had found this man.
Bennett's New York Herald also financed George De Long's disastrous attempt to perform this action. Frederick Cook couldn't convince people he had accomplished this feat in 1908 and there are still doubts over whether Robert Peary did it a year later.
Bennett ginned up interest in this mode of transportation by awarding a namesake cup to winners of an annual race. Ben Franklin witnessed the first experiments with this mode of transportation by the Montgolfier Brothers in Paris in the late 18th century.
Dr. David Livingstone
reaching the North Pole
hot air balloons &lt;Bentley&gt;
Mendel Beilis was arrested and charged with this crime in Kiev in the early 20th century. For 10 points each:
Name this crime frequently charged against Jews, which alleged that the Jews had taken the life of a young Christian to make matzo.
The blood libel was often used to justify these deadly mob attacks against Jews. A wave of these attacks in Russia began following the assassination of Alexander II.
These people, who chose to stay in Spain following the Alhambra decree, were accused of participating in the blood libel of the Holy Child of La Guardia. This Spanish term refers to Jews who had become Christians.
blood libel [or blood accusation]
pogroms
conversos [or marranos; prompt on New Christians] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Philosopher Charles Taylor and sociologist Gérard Bouchard <strong>(boo-SHARR)</strong> led a commission to advise this province's government on the reasonable accommodation of minorities. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian province, home to a university that censured Andrew Potter for a Maclean's editorial which illustrated this province's decline in social capital using a snowstorm that stranded 300 cars in Montreal.
Potter also described how these public employees in Quebec would wear clownish camo pants to protest pension reforms. People in this profession have been criticized for overusing civil asset forfeiture.
Potter cited the work of Robert Putnam, who claimed that low social capital caused institutions in this country's south to fail in Making Democracy Work. A prominent Communist thinker from this country contrasted traditional and organic intellectuals in a work written while imprisoned.
Quebec
police officers [or law enforcement officers; or peace officers]
Italy &lt;Kothari&gt;
Among this man's domestic accomplishments include granting serfs a form of maternity leave and backing the development of the world's first rain gauge. For 10 points each:
Identify this fourth ruler of Korea's Joseon (JOH-sun) dynasty whose establishment of the 28-letter hangul script is still celebrated on an October holiday.
Because the hangul script made it too easy to read, later Korean rulers tried to ban it and use the hanja script instead. Hanja refers to the characters borrowed from this country, whose Ming Empire helped defend Korea from a Japanese invasion.
One factor in repelling the Japanese invasion of Korea in the late 16th century was the Korean use of these boats, named for their heavy armor. A cannon could be placed in the dragon head of these ships, which also had spikes to prevent raids.
Sejong the Great
China
turtle ships [or geobukseon; or gwiseon] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This work gained its official status after members of the city council in Erie, Pennsylvania started singing "The Internationale" in 1931. For 10 points each:
Identify this poem, whose third verse controversially states, "No refuge could save the hireling and slave / From the terror of flight, or the gloom of the grave." It was written by Francis Scott Key.
British General George Cockburn, alluded to in the "hireling and slave" line, burned Washington, D.C. in part due to the Americans' burning of this city earlier in the war. Zebulon Pike was killed in the battle named for this city.
In 1816, Francis Scott Key attended the first meeting of a society named for promoting this policy. Paul Cuffee led a group of people to Freetown as part of this policy, once supported by Abraham Lincoln.
"The Star-Spangled Banner" [or "Defence of Fort M'Henry"; prompt on The National Anthem]
York [or Toronto]
colonization [or repatriation of freed African-American slaves; accept anything that mentions sending African Americans or slaves away from the United States to places such as Africa; prompt on abolition] &lt;Bentley&gt;
In the lead-up to the 2016 US presidential election, Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson failed to recognize the name of this city. For 10 points each:
Name this northwestern Syrian city, where protracted fighting between Bashar al-Assad's forces and that of the Syrian opposition has likely reduced its population to below that of Damascus.
During the Battle of Aleppo, the Syrian Air Force often dropped these improvised explosive devices, which are essentially large cylindrical containers filled with gasoline, nails, and steel. They are named for the shape of their containers.
During the fighting, Aleppo's neighborhood of Sheikh Masood was largely controlled by this Kurdish-dominated militia, which defeated ISIS forces at the siege of Kobani. In late 2015 it formed the basis of Rojava's US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces.
Aleppo [or Halab]
barrel bombs
YPG (yuh-pah-guh) [or People's Protection Units; or Yekineyen Parastina Gel; accept YPJ (yuh-pah-juh) or Women's Protection Units or Yekineyen Parastina Jin] &lt;Jose&gt;
This monarch re-routed the diggers working on a canal to link the North Sea to the Danube to go fight in one of his wars. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch whose scholars introduced lowercase into his namesake miniscule script. Alcuin of York worked at this ruler's court during his dynasty's namesake renaissance.
Charlemagne also ordered the construction of one of these structures at Mainz that was some five hundred paces in length. An iron one of these structures in Shropshire that spanned the Severn notably survived a flood that destroyed wooden-built ones.
During Charlemagne's reign, over four thousand of these people were massacred in the Bloody Verdict of Verden. In the later stages of the Roman Empire, a military post was named for these people's "Shore."
Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I; or Carolus Magnus; or Karolus Magnus; prompt on Charles or Carolus]
a bridge
Saxons [or Saxones] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This meeting of 29 different countries was organized by Prime Minister Ruslan Abdulgani. For 10 points each:
Name this conference held in Southeast Asia in which African and Asian countries agreed to organize economic alliances and challenge colonialism. It was a precursor to the Non-Aligned Movement.
The Bandung (bon-DOONG) Conference was largely organized by this president, whose programme of "guided democracy" legitimized his autocratic rule.
Those who participated in the Bandung Conference decided not to ally themselves with these two super-powers, making them them "third world" countries. These two superpowers fought the "Cold War" with each other.
Bandung Conference
Sukarno [or Soekarno]
United States of America and the Soviet Union [accept USA or America in lieu of United States; accept USSR in place of the Soviet Union. Prompt on Russia for Soviet Union] &lt;Jose&gt;
This government was defeated after the so-called Bloody Week. For 10 points each:
Name this socialist government that ruled for around six months in 1871. The first president of the Third Republic, Adolphe Thiers, sent in Patrice MacMahon to suppress it.
The Paris Commune formed in the wake of France's war with this other country. Napoleon III was captured by this country at the Battle of Sedan.
The governing body of the Paris Commune elected this intellectual, who was imprisoned at the time, as president. This man's theory of violent socialist revolutions suggests that a group of highly organized secretive conspirators should seize power from the bourgeoisie.
Paris Commune
Kingdom of Prussia [or Königreich Preussen; accept the North German Confederation or the German Empire; prompt on Germany]
Louis-Auguste Blanqui &lt;Jose&gt;
One of the deadliest events of this type is chronicled in Roger Morris's book <em>Devil's Butcher Shop</em> and took place in New Mexico starting at 2:00 a.m. on February 2, 1980. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of event, another of which resulted in the deaths of at least 43 people in New York State in 1971 after National Guardsmen were called in.
The Attica prison riots took place during the tenure of a New York governor with this last name who went on to become Gerald Ford's Vice President. This family made its wealth through Standard Oil.
Sam Melville, a member of this group, was one of the leaders of the Attica riots. This guerrilla group organized the Days of Rage and blew up a townhouse in Greenwich Village in 1970.
prison riot [or prison revolt]
Rockefeller
Weather Underground Organization [or WUO; or the Weathermen; or Weatherman] &lt;Bentley&gt;
People who had gotten rich in this country were returning to England on the <em>Royal Charter</em> when that ship wrecked off the coast of Moelfre <strong>(MALL-vreh)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Name this country where Edward Hargraves made a discovery at a place called Ophir in 1851, sparking a gold rush. Participants in that gold rush in this country protested against an expensive licensing fee in the Eureka Rebellion.
The Royal Charter disaster inspired Robert FitzRoy, then at the Meteorological Office, to start issuing gale warnings. FitzRoy had earlier been the captain of this ship, which brought Charles Darwin to the Galapagos islands.
The password used by the rebel miners at the Eureka Stockade was "Vinegar Hill," a reference to this earlier rebellion. Wolf Tone tried to obtain support for this rebellion from the French Directory government.
Australian gold rush [or Ballarat gold rush]
HMS Beagle
Irish Rebellion of 1798 [or United Irishmen Rebellion; prompt on partial answers] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This country's second president Floriano Peixoto <strong>(pay-SHOH-too)</strong>, suppressed the Revolta da Armada and overthrew an emperor who later fled to Portugal. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which became a republic in 1889 after its first president, Deodoro da Fonseca, ousted an emperor.
The Brazilian Empire was ruled by the House of Braganza since it was once a colony of this European power. Lands in the Americas were divided between Spain and this country by the Treaty of Tordesillas.
After the formation of the First Republic, this slightly-inland state of Brazil became a center of coffee production. The Brazilian gold rush began after gold was found in the mountains of this southern Brazilian state.
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil]
Portugal
Minas Gerais (MEE-nuss zheh-RICE) &lt;Jose&gt;
A set of three texts on this discipline called the <em>Trotula</em> were attributed to a woman named Trota. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline that Constantine the African taught at the University of Salerno, the first school where it was taught in medieval Europe. Later practitioners of this discipline used books by Andreas Vesalius and William Harvey.
Because of Salerno's reputation for medicine, it became known as the city of this ancient Greek physician, the namesake of an oath often taken by doctors.
The 1231 Edict of Salerno issued by this king defined the occupations of physician and apothecary. This Holy Roman Emperor was excommunicated four times by popes such as Gregory IX, led the peaceful Sixth Crusade, and was called "Stupor Mundi" for his erudition.
medicine [or surgery; or anatomy; or healing; or health]
Hippocrates
Frederick II [prompt on Frederick] &lt;Kothari&gt;
The worst terrorist bombing in the United States since the Wall Street bombing was carried out in 1975 by the FALN, which agitated for this cause. For 10 points each:
Identify this cause. One supporter of this cause, Griselio Torresola, was mortally shot by a Secret Service agent near Blair House in Washington, D.C.
The aforementioned Griselio Torresola unsuccessfully tried to assassinate this US President. This man ordered the dropping of the atomic bombs on Japan.
A law with this nicknamed passed by the Puerto Rican Senate in 1948 made it a crime to display the Puerto Rican flag. John Quincy Adams was a tireless opponent of a Congressional rule of this name.
Puerto Rican independence
Harry S. Truman
Gag Law [or Gag Rule; or Ley de la Mordaza] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Identify the following about some pioneering female world leaders, for 10 points each.
The first female elected head of state in a modern democracy was Sirimavo Bandaranaike, who became Prime Minister of this country in 1960. The Tamil Tigers sought an independent state from this island country.
Janet Jagan (JAY-gan) became the first American-born woman to serve as president when she was elected in 1997 in this Latin American country with a significant Hindu population.
This African country currently ranks first on the Inter-Parliamentary Union's list of the greatest proportion of women in national legislatures. A plane carrying President Juvénal Habyarimana of this country was shot down in 1994.
Sri Lanka [or Ceylon]
Guyana
Rwanda &lt;Bentley&gt;
Identify the following about the confluence of rock music and Communism, for 10 points each.
This country's government promoted the boring Lipsi dance, to which young people responded, "We don't want the Lipsi or Ado Koll." Radio stations in this Erich Honecker-led country would play the government-mandated music early in the morning to give prime-time space to rock and roll.
East Germans attended rock concerts put on at these types of buildings until the concerts were banned in the 1980s. One of these buildings named for "Christ the Savior" in Moscow was demolished in 1931 during the Soviet anti-religious campaign.
This underground Czech rock band formed in the aftermath of the Prague Spring. English-speaking Paul Wilson was its lyricist and frontman in its early days.
East Germany [or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or Deutsche Demokratische Republik; or DDR; do not accept or prompt on "Germany"]
churches [or cathedrals]
Plastic People of the Universe [or PPU] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This disease's present name comes from an epic poem by Girolamo Fracastoro, which recommends treating it with guaiacum <strong>(GWAH-yah-cum)</strong> resin. For 10 points each:
Name this disease, which many non-French people called "Morbus Gallicus" or "The French Disease." Its final stage may last for years and cause insanity.
The physician Ruy Díaz de Isla first reported syphilis in Europe while treating crewmen on this Genoese explorer's voyages to the Americas, such as Martín Alonzo Pinzón, captain of the Pinta.
Some of Columbus's crewmen joined this French king's 1494 invasion of Italy, and may have caused the horrifically virulent epidemic that followed.
syphilis
Christopher Columbus [or Cristóbal Colón; or Cristoforo Colombo]
Charles VIII [prompt on Charles] &lt;Kothari&gt;
Lightly-trained "barefoot" people in this profession were sent to the countryside during the Cultural Revolution. For 10 points each:
Identify this profession whose ancient practitioners included Bian Que (bee-EN ch'WEH) and Hua Tuo. Many Chinese members of this profession used the text Inner Canon of the Yellow Emperor.
Another public health idea of this Chinese Communist dictator was the Kill a Sparrow Campaign which lasted for four years before he decided it was better for people to eradicate bedbugs. He launched the Great Leap Forward.
One important text in Traditional Chinese Medicine is On Cold Damage, written by Zhang Zhongjing (jong jung-jeeng) near the end of this dynasty. Later emperors of this dynasty tried to reestablish control over territories lost during the reign of the usurper Wang Mang.
medical doctors [or physicians]
Mao Zedong [or Chairman Mao; or Mao Tse-tung]
Han dynasty [or Eastern Han dynasty] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Future Supreme Court justice Byron White held this occupation in 1938, and Edward King had this occupation a few decades before becoming Governor of Massachusetts. For 10 points each:
Identify this pre-Congress occupation of Oklahoma representative Steve Largent. Theodore Roosevelt spearheaded a 1905 committee to reduce the mortality rate of people in this profession.
Another football player who turned to politics was this Housing Secretary in the George H. W. Bush administration. Bob Dole chose him as his running mate in 1996.
Kemp would not have been the first football player to become Vice President. This man turned down an offer from the Packers to attend Yale Law School years before he was appointed to the Vice Presidency by a man he eventually pardoned, Richard Nixon.
professional football players [or college football players; accept equivalents; prompt on students; prompt on student-athletes]
Jack Kemp [or Jack French Kemp]
Gerald Ford [or Gerald Rudolph Ford, Jr.; or Leslie Lynch King, Jr.] &lt;Bentley&gt;
A disagreement over floral arrangements prompted Princess Pauline von Metternich and Countess Kielmannsegg to fight a topless rapier duel in this city in 1892. For 10 points each:
Name this European city where a yearly free party, open to all comers, is hosted by its current head of state, Hans-Adam II, and his son and regent Alois.
Vaduz is the capital of this tiny, doubly-landlocked, German-speaking country sandwiched between Switzerland and Austria.
Liechtenstein, like Panama and the Cayman Islands, is often considered to be one of these locations, which are often where shell companies are incorporated. These areas are the subject of the book The Hidden Wealth of Nations.
Vaduz (fah-DOOTS)
Principality of Liechtenstein [or Fürstentum Liechtenstein]
tax havens [or tax shelters] &lt;Jose&gt;
The first Anglo-Saxon king to convert to Christianity, Ethelbert, ruled from a kingdom that shares its name with this county. For 10 points each:
Identify this English county where Jack Cade's revolt against Henry VI began. The head of the Anglican Church, the Archbishop of Canterbury, rules from within this county.
Ethelbert was converted by Augustine, a monk dispatched to Kent by this pope. This pope, who died in 604, earned the epithet "the Great" and shares his papal name with a pope who issued a new calendar in the 16th century.
Ethelbert's wife Bertha, a member of this Frankish dynasty, was allowed to remain a Christian after marriage. The increasingly powerful mayors of the palace eventually overthrew this dynasty and replaced it with the Carolingian Dynasty.
Kent [or Kentish]
Saint Gregory the Great [or Gregory I; or Gregorius I; or Gregory XIII]
Merovingian dynasty &lt;Bentley&gt;
A namesake act establishing these things in the United Kingdom in 1871 created four of them in England, including the First Monday in August. For 10 points each:
Identify these occurrences. According to John Lubbock's bill, the businesses in the name of these events had to observe the same regulations on days such as Whit Monday as they did on Christmas Day.
Prime Minister Harold Wilson declared an emergency bank holiday in March 1968 to deal with a crisis arising from the market for this stuff in London. A "window" for this stuff ended with the Nixon Shock in 1971.
Beginning in 2008, St. Andrew's Day officially became a bank holiday in this constituent country in the United Kingdom. This country narrowly rejected independence from the UK in 2014.
bank holidays [prompt on holiday]
gold [or gold bullion]
Scotland &lt;Bentley&gt;
Alberto Ruz Lhuillier <strong>(lweel-YAY)</strong> was buried at this site in honor of his work excavating it, and Jean-Frederic Maximilien de Waldeck supposedly lived on top of its Temple of the Count for three years while illustrating its ruins. For 10 points each:
Identify this city that flourished during the Late Classic Period. A tomb was found beneath the Temple of the Inscriptions at this site in 1952.
Palenque (pah-LEN-kay) is one of the most impressive cities built by this Mesoamerican people. Their other centers, including Copán and Tikal, all collapsed by the 10th century CE.
Waldeck's drawings of Palenque distorted the buildings to look more like those of this culture on the discredited idea that there was a link between them. An important relic from this civilization is the Narmer Palette.
Palenque
Maya [or Mayan people]
Ancient Egyptian &lt;Bentley&gt;
As a young man, this person baited James Shields into a duel with broadswords, but Shields decided that this man's overwhelming size advantage would not have made for a fair fight. For 10 points each:
Name this man who, despite being born in a log cabin in Hodgenville, Kentucky, set up a law practice and obtained a plurality in the Presidential Election of 1860.
This politician succeeded Simon Cameron as Lincoln's Secretary of War. After Lincoln's assassination and a falling out with Johnson, this man refused to resign his office.
Some scholars assert that this famous epitaph given by Stanton after Lincoln died actually ended with the word "angels". Adam Gopnik wrote a long New Yorker article on this six-word quote, which he calls "the most famous epitaph in American biography".
Abraham Lincoln [or Abe Lincoln]
Edwin Stanton [or Edwin McMasters Stanton]
"Now he belongs to the ages" [or "Now he belongs to the angels"] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Although the technology to make this item was invented centuries earlier, it was not until the mid-19th century that military units began to use it often because of the precision needed in manufacturing its cylindrical bullet. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of firearm that, unlike a musket, has a grooved barrel for improved range and accuracy.
This British rifle was inspired by Samuel Colt's American System and became the most popular rifle of the late 19th century.
The rifle became a feasible military weapon thanks to the cylindrical bullets invented by a military officer from this country in 1847. This country's generals devised Plan XVII (17) in opposition to another country's Schlieffen (SHLEE-fin) Plan.
rifle
Enfield Rifle
France [The inventor was Claude-Étienne Minie.] &lt;Bentley&gt;
People attending public executions would often buy works of this type, which consisted of a woodcut and a description of the person being hanged. For 10 points each:
Identify these large, single-sided publications. Peddlers hawked ballads in this format until the rise of newspapers.
The Dunlap broadside was a relatively poorly printed version of this document. The latter part of this document blames King George III for all sorts of problems, and its more famous preamble references "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness".
Pamphlets, unlike broadsides, continued to be popular into the 20th century. This 1919 Supreme Court case convicted a man who gave out an anti-war pamphlet written in Yiddish. Oliver Wendell Holmes reversed his opinion from Schenck to dissent in this case.
broadsides [or broadsheets]
Declaration of Independence
Abrams v. United States [or Jacob Abrams, et al. v. United States] &lt;Bentley&gt;
An early incident of a message being "hacked" was when a magician named Nevil Maskelyne spelled out "rats" in Morse code to prove that this man's classified broadcast to Cornwall was not secure. For 10 points each:
Identify this inventor who founded the Wireless Telegraph &amp; Signal Company, later named for him, to market his patents in wireless telegraphy.
Jack Phillips and Harold Bride were employed by the Marconi Company as radio operators on this ship, which struck an iceberg and sunk on its maiden voyage on April 15, 1912.
This Chancellor of Exchequer was accused of insider trading in shares of the Marconi Company two years after he attacked German aggression in the Agadir crisis during his Mansion House speech.
Guglielmo Marconi [or Guglielmo Marconi, 1st Marquis of Marconi]
RMS Titanic
David Lloyd George, 1st Earl Lloyd-George of Dwyfor &lt;Bentley&gt;
The 1713 <em>asiento</em> granted Great Britain the right to carry out this practice in Latin America. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice, made illegal in the British Empire through a namesake 1807 act. As part of this practice, millions of people were sent over the hellish "Middle Passage" to the New World.
An astonishing two million slaves passed through this city, many disembarking at Valongo Wharf. From this capital city, the Golden Law was proclaimed in 1888.
Under kings such as Tegbesu and Agonglo, this African kingdom profited from the slave trade. King Gezu broke this kingdom free from Oyo dominance and was served by female bodyguards called Amazons.
African slave trade
Rio de Janeiro
Dahomey [or Danxome; or Danhome; or Fon] &lt;Bentley&gt;
In February 2016, a CNN chyron accidentally suggested that a Southern Hemisphere island nation, rather than this one, was in the process of building a fence at the Slovenian border. For 10 points each:
Name this country governed by a "grand coalition" consisting of the People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. Its chancellor, Christian Kern, has offices in Ballhausplatz 2 in Vienna.
In Austria's 2016 presidential election, this candidate for the far-right Freedom Party received a plurality of votes in the initial round but was defeated by Greens candidate Alexander van der Bellen in the second runoff.
Hofer's campaign advocated breaking off talks that could lead to this process, which is also opposed by Germany and Cyprus. It became substantially less likely in the wake of the crackdown following the 2016 coup carried out by the supposedly Gülenist (gyoo-LEN-ist) Peace at Home Council.
Republic of Austria [or Republik Österreich]
Norbert Gerwald Hofer
accession of Turkey to the European Union [accept anything that indicates the Republic of Turkey or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti potentially joining the European Union or EU] &lt;Jose&gt;
This woman's career began with a letter to the editor she wrote rebuking an article titled "What Girls Are Good For". For 10 points each:
Identify this woman who, as a reporter for the New York World, went undercover in a mental institution for a series published with the title Ten Days in a Mad-House.
This term, popularized in a Theodore Roosevelt speech, is often used to describe Nellie Bly and other investigative journalists in the Progressive era such as Ida Tarbell.
This other muckraker used his position as managing editor of McClure's Magazine to write a series of articles attacking urban corruption later collected as The Shame of the Cities.
Nellie Bly [or Elizabeth Cochran Seaman; or Elizabeth Jane Cochran]
muckrakers
Lincoln Steffens [or Lincoln Joseph Steffens] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The first museum to house this monument was built during the rule of Benito Mussolini. For 10 points each:
Identify this monument originally located in the Field of Mars and dedicated to the goddess Pax. This monument is celebrated for the relief sculptures on its walls, and it was buried by the Tiber for much of its history.
The Ara Pacis was built by the Senate to celebrate the return of this first Roman Emperor from Gaul in 13 BCE.
Most scholars agree that Gaius is looking up at this woman in the Agrippa Group on the South Wall of the Ara Pacis. This wife of Augustus supposedly killed many rivals to the throne so that her son Tiberius could reign.
Ara Pacis [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, Altar of Augustan Peace or Ara Pacis Augustae]
Augustus [or Gaius Octavius; or Octavian; or Octavianus; or Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus; or Gaius Julius Caesar Divi Filius; or Caesar Divi Filius Augustus]
Livia Drusilla [or Julia Augusta] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The tobacco industry isn't the only industry to suppress potentially damaging internal research. For 10 points each.
In 2012, Cristin Kearns and Gary Taubes broke the news that, starting in the 1950s, executives from this industry funded Frederick Stare's research overemphasizing the negatives of saturated fat. Domino Foods is a major player in this industry.
A 2015 Inside Climate News expose broke the story about how this company, also responsible for the Valdez oil spill, suppressed climate change research.
During the 2015 Paris Climate Conference, this environmental activist held a mock trial for Exxon which, unsurprisingly, found the company guilty. This founder of 350.org edited The Global Warming Reader.
sugar [accept the sugar industry or Big Sugar]
ExxonMobil
Bill McKibben [or William Ernest McKibben] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This country's mineral wealth gave it the highest rate of economic growth in the world for the period spanning 1966 to 1980 and backed its relatively strong currency, the pula. For 10 points each:
Identify this country African country whose first post-independence President was Seretse Khama. It emerged from the Bechuanaland Protectorate.
Colonial officials from this country prevented Seretse Khama from ruling over Bamangwato because he had married a white woman also from this country. This empire won the Boer War.
From 1895 to 1964, Bechuanaland was administered from this city outside of its borders. A word derived from this city meaning "to celebrate uproariously" was coined by British citizens exuberant that Lord Baden-Powell survived a long siege here in the Second Boer War.
Botswana [or Republic of Botswana]
United Kingdom [or Great Britain; or England]
Mafeking [or Mafikeng] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about Emperor Augustus's religious reforms, for 10 points each.
Suetonius (sweh-TOH-nee-uss) notes that Augustus revived this February festival, whose celebrants sacrifice goats, then don strips of the goatskin while running a circuit around the Palatine Hill that started and ended in a cave.
Horace was commissioned to write a hymn for Augustus's revival of this three-day celebration, which included sacrifices on the Campus Martius and was held every 110 years, a period representing the longest possible human lifespan.
Augustus also established a cult, complete with a temple in his namesake Forum, dedicated to the "Avenger", or "Ultor", aspect of this Roman god of war.
Lupercalia [prompt on Februa]
the Secular Games [or Ludi Saeculares; accept Ludi Tarentini]
Mars [do not accept or prompt on "Ares"] &lt;Carson&gt;
These places contained barracks where slaves were chained up each night called ergastula. For 10 points each:
Identify these large agricultural estates that Pliny the Elder claimed "have ruined Italy and are now ruining the provinces." These estates were larger than villas.
Since land ownership was the most respectable way to acquire wealth, many members of this Roman political body owned latifundia. This chief legislative body of the Roman Republic had around 900 members by Julius Caesar's time.
The Lex Claudia encouraged land ownership among the Senatorial class by restricting the size of these objects that Senators could own. These objects were used in naumachia, massive gladiator battles that occurred in special basins.
latifundia [or latifundium]
Roman Senate [or Senatus Romanus]
ships [or boats] &lt;Bentley&gt;
In the late 16th century, shipbuilders from this country developed a new type of ship called a <em>fluyt</em> <strong>(flout)</strong> that was relatively slow, but capable of transporting grain cheaply between its ports and the Baltic. For 10 points each:
Identify this one-time maritime power. Its colonies included Suriname and New York prior to its control by the British.
Fluyts were cheaper than this other type of ship, since they could not be converted into war vessels. These large, multi-decked sailing ships were used by the Spanish to trade silk in Manila for silver from Acapulco.
This Venetian shipyard lost prominence in the 16th century due to its failure to master galleon-building. Earlier, this shipyard had mass-produced the galleys that the Holy League used in the Battle of Lepanto.
The Netherlands [accept Holland]
galleons
Venetian Arsenal [or Arsenale di Venezia] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The fourth statement of this document warns that "evil customs of the past shall be broken off and everything based upon the just laws of Nature". For 10 points each:
Name this document consisting of five points, which was promulgated in 1868. It effectively functioned as a philosophical blueprint for Japan's modernization.
The Charter Oath was promulgated by this modernizing 19th-century emperor of Japan.
This Japanese samurai believed that the Tokugawa shogunate needed to be completely stripped of its power after the restoration of the Meiji Emperor. He later led the abortive Satsuma Rebellion.
Charter Oath [or Gokajō no Goseimon]
Emperor Meiji
Saigo Takamori &lt;Jose&gt;
One conflict between the Romans and these people began after Rome established a colony at Fregellae. For 10 points each:
Identify these people who, despite a great victory over the Romans at the Battle of Caudine Forks, were eventually brought under Roman control.
These other people of the Italian peninsula fought the 535 BCE Battle of Alalia against the Greeks for control over Mediterranean trade. Lars Porsena, a king of these people, supposedly fought a war against the newly formed Roman Republic.
This Roman emperor is said to have compiled a dictionary of the Etruscan language. This emperor also wrote a no longer extant treatise on dice playing, De arte aleae, before possibly being poisoned by his wife Agrippina.
Samnites
Etruscans
Claudius [or Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer some questions about modern gun control measures around the world, for 10 points each.
Australian Prime Minister John Howard implemented a gun buyback program and severely restricted private gun ownership following this 1996 mass shooting in Tasmania.
Though the United States does not allow large-scale firearm sales from unlicensed private sellers without conducting a background check, federal law does permit private sellers to sell weapons with no checks required; that fact is commonly referred to as a "loophole" named for these events.
This country with the lowest rate of gun violence in the world is also among the strictest in gun control measures. Historically, private gun ownership in this nation has been associated with criminal enterprises like the yakuza.
Port Arthur Massacre [accept obvious equivalents for "massacre"]
gun show loophole [or gun shows]
Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku] &lt;Aggarwal&gt;
This one-time apprentice of Jedediah Strutt pretended to be a farmhand in order to emigrate to the United States. For 10 points each:
Identify this "father of the American industrial revolution". He was the first person to build textile mills that incorporated Arkwright spinning machines in the United States.
"Slater the Traitor", as he was known in Great Britain, inspired several copycat mills in the United States which were helped by the passage of this 1807 act. A turtle nips at the bottom of a man carrying a barrel in a political cartoon satirizing this act.
Another American industrialist, Francis Cabot Lowell, used first-hand knowledge of British mills to establish a textile empire in this state. Worcester and Springfield also became important manufacturing centers in this New England state.
Samuel Slater
Embargo Act of 1807
Massachusetts &lt;Bentley&gt;
From 1878 to 1881, this organization launched an "emperor hunt" wherein two provincial governors were killed. For 10 points each:
Identify this secret organization, which split from the Land and Liberty Society and used a bomb to assassinate an emperor in 1881.
That assassinated emperor was this Russian czar, who had emancipated the serfs in 1861.
During the reign of Alexander III, six people who had suffered this fate were killed in the Yakutsk Tragedy, an incident widely reported in the West. Journalist George Kennan toured the United States with a half-shaved head in order to advocate for the rights of people subjected to this fate, who lived in katorgas.
People's Will [or Narodnaya Volya; or People's Freedom]
Alexander II [or Aleksandr Nikolayevich; or Aleksandr II; prompt on Alexander]
exiled to Siberia [or obvious equivalents of being imprisoned in Siberia; prompt on answers like exile or prison] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man was rumored to have banned the word "Dracula" in his country after he was taunted with that name on a 1978 visit to the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who promoted protochronism, which absurdly claimed that his country originated various cultural accomplishments attributed to others. This author of the July Theses was kept in power through a secret police known as the Securitate (seh-koo-rih-TAH-tay).
Ceauşescu was the communist dictator of this country. In 1989, Ceauşescu and his wife tried to flee this country's capital of Bucharest, but they were seized and executed on Christmas Day.
A post-Ceauşescu protest in Bucharest was suppressed when the government called in people in this profession from the Jiu (ZHEE-oo) Valley to restore order. Alexey Stakhanov was a massively productive Soviet member of this profession.
Nicolae Ceauşescu (chow-SHESS-koo)
Romania
miners [or coal miners; accept word forms like mining] &lt;Bentley&gt;
William Wilkinson was brought in from England to manage one of the burgeoning iron works in the early 19th century in this region. For 10 points each:
Identify this region that was secured by Prussia following a successful defense of Chotusitz (KHO-too-zits) in 1742 during the War of Austrian Succession, which ended with Maria Theresa losing it to Prussia.
This Prussian monarch invaded Silesia to spark the War of the Austrian Succession. This enlightened despot was the first to declare himself king of Prussia rather than king in Prussia.
This treaty called for a national plebiscite to determine whether Upper Silesia should belong to Poland or Germany. Through another plebiscite mandated by this treaty, northern Schleswig (SHLESS-vig) came under the control of Denmark.
Silesia [or Slezsko; or Schlesien; or Śląsk]
Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; or Friedrich der Grosse; or Friedrich II; prompt on Frederick]
Treaty of Versailles of 1919 [prompt on Paris Peace Conference] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man's minister of health, Jorge Lemus, saved his life after he nearly choked on a fake mustache while impersonating Freddie Mercury at his wedding. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, whose "Plan Belgrano" seeks to improve the infrastructure of his country's ten northern provinces. He defeated Ernesto Sanz and Elisa Carrió in a primary election to represent the Cambiemos coalition in 2015.
Macri is the current president of this South American country, where he served from 2007 to 2015 as the chief of government of Buenos Aires.
Macri is also the leader of this economic bloc consisting of multiple South American countries. In 2016, Venezuela was suspended from this group for human rights violations and issues with its democracy.
Mauricio Macri
Republic of Argentina [accept Argentine Republic or República Argentina]
Mercosur [or Mercosul; or Mercado Comun del Sur] &lt;Jose&gt;
Late in his life, this man unsuccessfully warned his fellow citizens that Peisistratus was going to become a tyrant. For 10 points each:
Identify this Athenian who supposedly told Croesus (KREE-sus), the wealthy king of Lydia, that the happiest man he had ever met was Tellus, a humble statesman with a loving family.
Solon created a new one of these things for Athens, affixing it to the Prytaneion. Draco had created an earlier, much harsher, one of these things that mandated death for stealing a cabbage.
It's doubtful that the Draconian constitution included in the fourth chapter of this author's Athenian Constitution was really written by Draco. Most of this author's writings come from notes that he gave at the Lyceum, a school he founded.
Solon
law code [or legal code; or constitution of Athens]
Aristotle [or Aristoteles] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Identify the following about women during the Revolutionary era, for 10 points each.
As part of this movement, colonial women produced American-made clothes that could be worn by women and men in opposition to British-made goods. George Washington wore a garment produced from this movement to his first inauguration.
In 1776, this woman wrote to her husband to "remember the ladies." In 1797, she became the country's second First Lady.
Penelope Barker organized a group of women to protest the Tea Act in the Edenton Tea Party, which took place in this modern-day state. Rebels fought Loyalists along this state's southern border in the Battle of Kings Mountain.
homespun movement
Abigail Adams [or Abigail Smith]
North Carolina &lt;Bentley&gt;
Description acceptable. Daniel Webster quipped that he had "killed seventeen Roman proconsuls" while editing this text, although it still ran to over eight thousand words. For 10 points each:
Identify this extremely long text read by a man on a chilly day without wearing an overcoat. The man who gave this speech died 31 days later.
William Henry Harrison was succeeded by this man, known as "His Accidency." He was onboard the USS Princeton when one of its guns exploded in 1844.
Harrison, despite being from a privileged background, was championed as a man of the people in contrast to Martin Van Buren. Charles Ogle singled out Van Buren's "regal splendor" in a speech commonly titled for this type of utensil.
William Henry Harrison's inaugural address [prompt on answers that do not specify a Harrison]
John Tyler
golden spoon [prompt on spoon; do not accept "silver spoon"] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about positions within the Holy See of the Vatican, for 10 points each.
The job of these people was to argue against a figure's canonization. Their office was abolished by Pope John Paul II. They give their name to people who make deliberately controversial statements in an argument to test the opposing view.
This is the general name for ambassadors and diplomats of the Holy See to other countries. Pio Laghi held this role to the United States during the Carter and Reagan administrations.
The college of cardinals meets to determine who the next pope is during this period of time, whose name is Latin for "empty seat."
devil's advocates [or advocatus diaboli]
papal nuncio [or Apostolic nuncio]
sede vacante (SAY-day vuh-CON-tay) &lt;Jose&gt;
This monarch ordered the construction of many new roofless temples, which made it possible for worshippers to engage in excruciatingly long periods of sunbathing. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch whose reign gave rise to the Amarna style, which did away with the symmetrical ideal.
The intact tomb of this son of Akhenaten was discovered by Howard Carter in the Valley of the Kings in 1922.
Historians have a window into Akhenaten's diplomatic relationships with other countries thanks to the Amarna Letters, some of which concern Alashiya. Alashiya is an ancient name for this country, which was where the city of Salamis was located.
Akhenaten [or Akhnaton or Ikhnaton; or Amenhotep IV; or Amenophis; prompt on Amenhotep]
King Tut [or Tutankhamun; or Tutankhaten]
Cyprus &lt;Bentley&gt;
Identify the following about African American travel before the Civil Rights era, for 10 points each.
This is the name given to the mass movement of African Americans from the South to northern cities such as Detroit, Milwaukee and Baltimore in the early 20th century. A second period of this name began in the 1940s.
A "Negro Motorist" book of this color, also the surname of the author, offered African Americans tips on avoiding sundown towns and finding places to stay. The book of this name was distributed at many Esso stations.
The Freedom Riders sought to force the government to adhere to the desegregation standards of the Morgan and Boynton cases, both originally filed in this state. Another case originating in this state struck down anti-miscegenation laws in 1967.
First Great Migration
green [or Green Book; or The Negro Travelers' Green Book]
Virginia &lt;Bentley&gt;
A text produced by this man used the Vulgate as its source, and was partially funded by an investment from Johann Fust. For 10 points each:
Name this goldsmith from Mainz whose namesake 42-line Bible was the first book printed in Europe using movable type.
Of the 180 or so copies of the Gutenberg Bible printed, around 45 of them were printed on this material rather than paper. The "uterine" form of this extremely expensive writing material was made from the skin of newborn or stillborn calves or lambs.
The design of printed books greatly improved through the innovations of the Aldine Press, which was established in this city in 1494. Byzantine craftsmen helped make this city a major glass manufacturer starting in the 13th century.
Johannes Gutenberg
vellum
Venice [or Venezia] &lt;Bentley&gt;
In one of the many "riots" named for this disease in the 1890s, citizens of Astrakhan attacked a local hospital before marching to the governor's mansion and setting it on fire. For 10 points each:
Identify this disease characterized by watery diarrhea. John Snow traced an outbreak of this disease in London in 1854 to a water pump on Broad Street.
In a cholera riot in this German city in 1893, a sanitation official was beaten to death. Earlier in the century, this "Free and Hanseatic City" sometimes known as "Germany's gateway to the world" joined the German Confederation.
The death from cholera of Casimir Perier and Jean-Maximilien Lamarque in this year sparked the Parisian June Rebellion against King Louis-Philippe chronicled in Les Miserables.
cholera
Hamburg
1832 &lt;Bentley&gt;
It was said that during this leader's Southern Campaign, he captured and released the rebel leader Meng Huo <strong>(mung hwoh)</strong> seven times until he acknowledged his defeat. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, who was an advisor to Liu Bei (lyoh bay), the founder of the state of Shu. He devised the Longzhong Plan for reuniting the empire under Liu Bei.
Zhuge Liang (JOO-guh lyong) was a leader in this historical period in China, which saw conflicts between the states of Wei, Shu, and Wu. It was the subject of a namesake "romance" attributed to Luo Guanzhong.
The state of Wei had its origins in the territories controlled by this leader, who served as chancellor for Emperor Xian (sh'yen), the last Han emperor. He was defeated in the Battle of Red Cliffs.
Zhuge Liang [or Kongming]
Three Kingdoms period [or Sanguo; accept Romance of the Three Kingdoms or Sanguozhi yanyi]
Cao Cao (tsow tsow) [or Mengde; prompt on Cao] &lt;Cheng&gt;
In 1991, this ruler lifted the ban on political parties and allowed multi-party elections, causing his UNIP party to fall from power. For 10 points each:
Name this man, the president who led Zambia to independence. He was ousted from power by Frederick Chiluba.
Kaunda was particularly critical of this Rhodesian prime minister's racist regime. This man secured independence for Rhodesia at the Lancaster House Agreement.
In his early years, Kaunda nationalized this industry in Zambia. Around 70 percent of Zambia's exports comes from the production of copper in this industry.
Kenneth Kaunda [prompt on KK]
Ian Smith
mining [accept copper mining]
The members of this organization refused to recognize blockades placed on undefended ports. For 10 points each:
Identify this alliance between countries such as Spain, Sweden and Austria. It was the brainchild of Catherine the Great and placed economic pressure on Great Britain.
The League of Armed Neutrality was used by Russia to protect shipping during this conflict. French forces under the Comte de Rochambeau helped win the Battle of Yorktown in this war.
While the ineffective Second League of Armed Neutrality was in place, the Russians attempted to invade this British colony. British interests in this colony were largely secured through a 1757 victory for Robert Clive.
The First League of Armed Neutrality
American Revolutionary War [or War of American Independence]
India [or British Raj; or Indian Empire] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Alfonso Caso established a chronology for this site consisting of five periods, and discovered its extensive "Tomb Seven" shrine. For 10 points each:
Name this archaeological site. Hundreds of artistic figures found here termed "Danzantes" suggest that the inhabiting civilization practiced human sacrifice.
Monte Albán was built in this valley, where other Zapotec cities, such as the San José Mogote, were also built. It gives its name to one of the southernmost Mexican states.
The Zapotecs at Monte Albán are known to have engaged in a form of exchange with this other Mesoamerican civilization, who are known for building massive stone heads.
Monte Albán
Oaxaca Valley [accept Central Valleys]
Olmecs &lt;Jose&gt;
This man established a "summer White House" at the State Game Lodge in South Dakota. For 10 points each:
Identify this tight-lipped president who took office following the death of his predecessor, Warren G. Harding.
Robert E. Gilbert wrote that Coolidge began suffering from severe depression following this event. This event was caused by a blister from a game of lawn tennis at the White House. A descriptive answer is acceptable.
In 1924, Coolidge signed into law the Snyder Act which granted citizenship to these people, who, unless they were taxed, were exempt from counting towards a state's population in Article One of the Constitution. In 1824, Secretary of War John C. Calhoun created an office concerned with these people.
Calvin Coolidge [or John Calvin Coolidge, Jr.]
the death of Calvin Coolidge's youngest son [or the death of Calvin Coolidge, Jr.; note that even though Calvin Coolidge was a Jr., his son was also called Calvin Coolidge, Jr.]
Native Americans [or Indians; or indigenous peoples] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This general presided over the so-called "Magdeburg Wedding," a sacking of the Protestant city of Magdeburg in which roughly 75 percent of its population was killed. For 10 points each:
Name this commander of the Catholic League who died trying to prevent Swedish forces from crossing the Lech River.
The Siege of Magdeburg took place during this lengthy religious conflict concluded by the Peace of Westphalia.
Tilly's first defeat in the war was in this September 17, 1631 battle where Gustav Karlsson Horn executed one of the first troop shifts in modern warfare. Gustavus Adolphus's troops killed some 12,000 Imperial troops at this battle in Saxony.
Johann Tserclaes, Graf von Tilly [accept either underlined answer; or Count von Tilly; or Count of Tilly]
Thirty Years' War
Battle of Breitenfeld &lt;Bentley&gt;
This monarch took the simple coat and hat worn by the Chevalier de Coigny <strong>(shuh-vall-YAY de kwann-YEE)</strong> during an escape attempt during which he would later disguise himself as a valet. For 10 points each:
Identify this French monarch who failed in his Flight to Varennes (vah-REN). As a result, he was re-captured and ultimately beheaded during the French Revolution.
Louis XVI was discovered by a postmaster named Jean-Baptiste Drouet (droo-AY), who used one of these items to confirm the king's identity. The assignat (ah-seen-YAH) was one of these things used during the French Revolution.
Following the Flight to Varennes, Louis and his family were returned to this building, where they were imprisoned. On the 10th of August, 1792, this building was stormed and many Swiss Guards were killed.
Louis XVI [prompt on Louis]
paper currency [or money or coin]
Tuileries (tweel-REE) Palace &lt;Bentley&gt;
Prior to the 12th century, more powerful members of this class of people were called bushi. For 10 points each:
Identify this class of people, whose wives were often trained to use a kaiken knife. A group of these people launched a failed 1877 rebellion after modernization largely made them obsolete.
Commoners were allowed to carry one of these weapons, but only samurai were permitted to wield two of them. Samurai often carried two of them, the wakizashi and the katana.
Samurai often maintained these things, known in Japanese as kare-sansui or ishi-niwa. Kyōtō's Ryōan-ji contains a celebrated example of one of these things.
samurai
swords
rock gardens [or zen gardens; prompt on gardens] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This person's childhood home of Locust Hill was not far from Monticello, and he briefly served in the Chosen Rifle Company of a future colleague. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Corps of Discovery.
This member of the Lemhi Shoshone tribe joined the Lewis and Clark Expedition with her husband, Toussaint Charbonneau. Her knowledge of sign language helped her secure horses for the expedition.
Some accounts hold that Sacagawea lived well past 1812, dying in this modern-day state. The construction of forts such as Fort Phil Kearny in this modern-day state increased white settlement in it.
Meriwether Lewis
Sacagawea [or Sagagawea or Sakakawea]
Wyoming &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man's Christian faith was shaped by his grandmother, Ludmila, in opposition to his pagan mother, Dragomir. For 10 points each:
Identify this Duke of Bohemia who was killed after his brother Boleslaus lured him to a church dedication ceremony.
Wenceslas's body resides in a shrine in Saint Vitus's Cathedral in this Bohemian city. One of the causes of the Thirty Years' War was its namesake 1618 Defenestration, in which Catholic officials were thrown out a window.
Wenceslas resumed the tribute paid to Henry the Fowler, the father of this Holy Roman Emperor who won the Battle of Lechfeld.
Wenceslas I [or Good King Wenceslas]
Prague [or Praha]
Otto I [or Otto the Great; prompt on Otto] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man's brother made a fortune selling diapers.com to Amazon. For 10 points each:
Identify this man lauded in a 2012 Time cover as the "top cop" of Wall Street. He was fired from his position as US District Attorney for the Southern District of New York in March 2017.
Bharara once served as an aide to this Senator from New York, the current Senate Minority Leader.
Despite not being in the State Department, Bharara's office investigated the Deputy Consul General from this country. Without advanced warning, this country controversially demonetized its highest value banknotes in November 2016.
Preet Bharara [or Preetinder Singh Bharara]
Chuck Schumer [or Charles Ellis Schumer]
India [or Republic of India; or Bharat Ganarajya] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Fraudulent letters linking one man to this crime were exposed when it was observed that the letters misspelled the word "hesitency" in the same way that Richard Pigott always did. For 10 points each:
Name this 1882 crime where Lord Frederick Cavendish and Thomas Henry Burke were stabbed to death by a group of Invincibles.
The Phoenix Park murders took place in the capital of this modern-day country. The Fenians sought to cast off British control of this country, where a potato famine occurred in the 1840s.
Pigott's aforementioned forgery sought to blame the murders on this Irish politician and lover of Katherine O'Shea. This Home Rule advocate is commemorated on Ivy Day.
Phoenix Park murders
Ireland [or Republic of Ireland; or Éire]
Charles Stewart Parnell &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man's book <em>A History of the Indies</em> contains descriptions of the Taino and the Ciboney peoples. For 10 points each:
Name this historian, whose book A Short Account of the Destruction of Indies chronicled abuses against indigenous inhabitants of the New World.
De las Casas's book contributed to the "Black Legend," the idea that this European colonial power committed atrocities against the people it colonized. Its monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella financed exploration of the Americas.
De las Casas argued against the scholar Juan de Sepúlveda's ideas at this "Debate," where he held that the original inhabitants of the Indies should not be enslaved. It is named for the Spanish city in which it took place.
Bartolomé de las Casas
Spain [or Spanish Empire]
Valladolid Debate &lt;Jose&gt;
This woman was put under house arrest after calling for democracy in front of the Shwedagon Pagoda in the aftermath of the 8888 Uprising. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the National League for Democracy whose efforts to democratize her home country were opposed by the State Peace and Development Council, a military junta.
Aung San Suu Kyi (ong sahn soo chee) was unable to travel to Norway to accept this award, which she won in 1991, since the junta threatened to bar her from re-entry if she traveled overseas.
Aung San Suu Kyi was arrested in 1988, the year that this autocrat stepped down from power. This man instituted a dictatorship in Burma after having the ineffectual U Nu removed from office.
Aung San Suu Kyi [do not prompt on "Aung" or "San" or "Aung San"]
Nobel Peace Prize [prompt on Nobel Prize]
Ne Win &lt;Jose&gt;
The first use of one of these texts was used by James Monroe to criticize Congress for passing a bill limiting the size of the army. For 10 points each:
Name these texts issued by presidents when authorizing legislation from Congress. Christopher Kelly defined the "political" form of these things as directions from the President on how agencies should enforce ambiguous legislation.
Signing statements might be less common if the President had a line-item form of this power. Presidents can perform this action by not signing a bill passed by Congress.
Under Reagan, this man authored a document arguing for the president to make greater use of signing statements. This man took over the seat vacated by Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court.
signing statements
vetoing legislation
Samuel Alito [or Samuel Anthony Alito, Jr.] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Louise Day Hicks organized a campaign against this policy in the 1960s and 70s. For 10 points each:
Identify this method of desegregating schools. The Supreme Court upheld a North Carolina county's plan to use this policy in the case of Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education.
Hicks led opposition to busing in this New England city. An African-American named Crispus Attucks died during a 1770 "massacre" in this city.
A famous photo from the Boston busing crisis shows Joseph Rakes using one of these objects as a weapon against Ted Landsmark. Michael Strank, Franklin Sousley, and Harlon Block were killed shortly after being immortalized in a 1945 Joe Rosenthal photograph that features one of these objects.
compulsory busing [or desegregation busing; or forced busing]
Boston
an American flag [or a flagpole] &lt;Bentley&gt;
A 1963 crisis in this region developed after a strand of the Prophet Mohammad's hair was stolen from a shrine in Hazratbal. For 10 points each:
Identify this region claimed by both India and Pakistan on opposite sides of the Line of Control. It should not be confused with Punjab.
The hair relic was installed in the Hazratbal shrine by this Mughal emperor. This man imprisoned his father Shah Jahan after defeating his brother Dara Shikoh in a civil war.
Some people of this ethnicity settled in Kashmir colonies such as Dranghaihama. The Durrani are a subgroup of this ethnic group, many of whom live in Pakistan's North-West Frontier Province.
Kashmir
Aurangzeb [or Aurangzib or Awrangzib or Alamgir of Muhi al-Din Muhammad]
Pashtuns [or Pushtuns or Pakhtun or Pathan; prompt on Afghan] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This author described how a force shouted "Thalatt! Thalatta," meaning "The Sea! The Sea," as they reached the shore of the Black Sea. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek historian who was one of the leaders of a group of mercenaries called the Ten Thousand. Their march north is discussed in this author's Anabasis.
Xenophon also wrote a fictionalized biography of this king, who conquered the Median Empire, Babylonia, and Lydia to found the Persian Achaemenid Empire.
The Ten Thousand were originally hired to fight for Cyrus the Younger against his brother Artaxerxes II. Cyrus the Younger died in this battle when his forces were betrayed by Tissaphernes.
Xenophon of Athens
Cyrus the Great [or Cyrus II; or Cyrus the Elder; or Kurosh; prompt on Cyrus]
Battle of Cunaxa &lt;Jose&gt;
Members of this group used objects dubbed "Great Enochs" in reference to a local blacksmith. For 10 points each:
Name this group of workers in the English East Midlands who claimed allegiance to a mythical "King Ned."
Parliament tried to discourage the Luddites by passing this 1812 legislation, which made the title act a capital offense. This legislation inspired one Luddite to write a letter to Prime Minister Spencer Perceval threatening "Blood for Blood."
Ned Ludd was rumored to live in Sherwood Forest, much like this earlier mythic Englishman. He supposedly stole from the rich and gave to the poor alongside his Merry Men.
Luddites [or Luddism]
Frame-Breaking Act [or Destruction of Stocking Frames, etc. Act 1812]
Robin Hood [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about Ancient Egyptian agriculture, for 10 points each.
Irrigation canals were dug in order to control and store the water generated from this annual event. Egyptians would plant their crops in October after the end of this event.
Egyptian farmers started using the shaduf to lift water during the 18th dynasty, whose pharaohs included this woman. Many statues of this female pharaoh were destroyed by her stepson Thutmose III.
This crop was harvested prior to the wheat harvest, and unlike wheat could be pulled up from the ground with one's hands. This crop was pulled up early to produce higher-quality royal linen, and was the chief crop used to make Egyptian clothing.
flooding of the Nile [or obvious equivalents indicating the overflow or inundation of the Nile River; prompt on floods]
Hatshepsut
flax [or common flax; or linseed; or Linum usitatissimum; or Egyptian flax plant] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about education reform in 19th century America, for 10 points each.
This member of the Massachusetts Board of Education reformed much of the public school system, making the school day longer and setting up "normal schools" for teachers to be trained.
This so-called "Schoolmaster of the Republic" improved the textbooks of the early 19th century. This creator of widely used "reading lessons" edited a dictionary that he co-names with George Merriam.
In 1837, this college in Ohio started to admit both men and women into its program. This college became involved in the abolition movement under its president Charles Grandison Finney.
Horace Mann
Noah Webster
Oberlin College &lt;Jose&gt;
This man's daughter, the princess Anna, wrote a history of his reign. For 10 points each:
Name this emperor who fought against Robert Guiscard and the Normans at the Battle of Dyrrachium. He also sent ambassadors to meet with Pope Urban II at the Council of Piacenza.
Anna's Alexiad describes how Alexios' appeals led to this 1096 campaign, which successfully captured Jerusalem. This campaign began with cries of "God wills it!" at the Council of Clermont.
The Alexiad also discusses Alexios's reluctant execution of a leader of the Bogomils, a dualistic heresy that originated among these people. Basil II earned his nickname by defeating these people at Kleidon.
Alexios I Komnenos [or Alexius I Comnenus]
the First Crusade
Bulgarians [or Bulgars; or Balgari] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
This country encouraged athletic achievement with programs such as Prepared for Labor and Defense, or the GTO. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose Olympic highlights include the violent "Blood in the Water" match with a southern neighbor. It hosted the widely-boycotted 1980 Summer Olympics.
This capital of the USSR was the site of the 1980 Olympics, as well as frequent "physical culture" parades in Red Square.
The Soviet Union also hosted massive sports competitions named for this person every four years in Moscow. A revolutionary group named for this person was led by Karl Liebknecht and the author of the "Junius pamphlet."
Soviet Union [or USSR; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or CCCP; prompt on Russia]
Moscow [or Moskva]
Spartacus [or Spartakiads; or Spartacist League] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
A magnificent blue and gold copy of this structure can be found opposite the Market gate of Miletus in the Pergamon Museum. For 10 points each:
Name this gate that was once built into the wall that surrounded Babylon. It is named for a deity.
The Pergamon Museum can be found in this country, whose other architecture includes the "Mad King's" New Swanstone Castle.
Babylon's Etemenanki was one of these types of buildings. One of these stepped "sacred mountains" extended to almost 20 meters in height in ancient Ur.
Ishtar Gate
Federal Republic of Germany
ziggurats &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about some influential political cartoons in American history, for 10 points each.
An early color cartoon from Puck magazine lampooned this presidential candidate as the "tattooed man" whose body was covered in a sea of scandals. His namesake amendments barred government funding for parochial schools.
This rival of Blaine in the 1884 election was himself attacked with cartoons where an infant asks, "Ma, Ma, where's my Pa?" This Democrat served two non-consecutive terms as President.
A Puck cartoon depicting anthropomorphized money-bags as the "Bosses" of this group, as well as David Graham Philip's writings on its "Treason," helped inspire the reform of this institution by the 17th Amendment.
James G. Blaine [or James Gillespie Blaine]
Grover Cleveland
the United States Senate [prompt on Congress]&lt;Bentley&gt;
Millicent Fawcett claimed that this war "found women serfs and left them free." For 10 points each:
Name this war during which British women over thirty gained the right to vote via the 1918 Representation of the People Act.
Along with her sister Christabelle, this leader of the suffragist movement in Britain controversially halted activities of the Women's Social and Political Union to campaign for the war effort.
101 British suffragists signed a 1914 open letter of this name calling for the end of World War I. A 1914 "truce" by this name involved widespread but unofficial ceasefires along the trenches of the Western Front.
World War I [or the Great War]
Emmeline Pankhurst [or Emmeline Goulden]
Christmas [or Open Christmas Letter; or Christmas Truce] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
This country decided to adopt a "strike south" strategy after losing the Battle of the Khalkhin Gol River. For 10 points each:
Identify this country, whose subsequent military campaigns reached a high point when the code words "Tora! Tora! Tora!" were relayed to indicate an operation had been carried out successfully.
The message "Tora! Tora! Tora!" was relayed following the Japanese attack on this US naval base on December 7, 1941.
This Soviet general helped lead the counteroffensive against the Japanese army in Manchuria. He won the Battles of Stalingrad and Kursk and later protected Khrushchev from an attempted coup by the Anti-Party Group.
Japan
Pearl Harbor
Georgy Konstantinovich Zhukov &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man's election brought about general strikes which led to the Matignon Accords, by which the rights to strike and to collective bargaining were recognized. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of a French Popular Front government from 1936 to 1937.
Blum was a precursor of this French party which formed at the Alfortville Congress and was once led by Francois Mitterrand.
A bloody assault on Blum led the government to ban Action Francaise, a right-wing organization which had originally sprung up during the "affair" over this Jewish officer accused of selling secrets to Germany.
Leon Blum
Socialist Party [or Parti Socialiste]
Alfred Dreyfus &lt;Brownstein&gt;
A Prussian contingent of these troops named for Bayreuth proved decisive at the Battle of Hohenfriedberg in 1745. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of French mounted infantry, named for the short-barreled firearm they carried. The practice of placing these troops in Huguenot homes has led their name to become an English verb.
This French king's draggonade policies helped drive many Huguenots from France. Later, this "Sun King" would issue the Edict of Fontainebleau, formally expelling Protestants from his country.
This king was the first of his countrymen to incorporate dragoons into his army. This king was killed fighting at the Battle of Lutzen in 1632.
dragoons
Louis XIV [or Louis the Great; or Louis le Grand; prompt on Louis]
Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolph or Gustavus Adolphus the Great or Gustavus Adolphus Magnus; prompt on Gustavus] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man's time as a prosecutor led him to write a book about organized crime called <em>The Enemy Within</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this brother of an American president, under whom he served as attorney general.
This Palestinian national shot and killed RFK in 1968 because Kennedy had supported Israel during the Six-Day War.
This historian used the private papers of RFK to write the biography Robert Kennedy and His Times. He chronicled the short presidency of JFK in his Pulitzer Prize-winning A Thousand Days.
Robert Francis Kennedy [prompt on Kennedy; accept RFK; accept Bobby Kennedy; do not accept or prompt on "JFK" or "John (F.) Kennedy"]
Sirhan Sirhan
Arthur Schlesinger Jr. &lt;Jose&gt;
In <em>Politics as a Vocation</em>, Max Weber noted that this book exemplified "truly radical Machiavellianism" and that <em>The Prince</em> was harmless compared to this text. For 10 points each:
Name this treatise written by Kautilya that argues a ruler's sole goal is to increase his own political power. It suggests implementing a system of spies and proposes different military regimens.
The Arthashastra's policy of lobhavijayin, or conquest out of greed, inspired this founder of the Mauryan Empire to attack and annex almost all of the non-Tamil regions of India.
In the Arthashastra, Kautilya advocates a "four-limbed" army composed of infantry, cavalry, chariots and these animals, which were also used by Hannibal to cross the Alps.
Arthashastra
Chandragupta Maurya
war elephants &lt;Jose&gt;
This man resigned as governor of Tennessee after his 19-year-old wife Eliza Allen left him and returned to her parents. For 10 points each:
Name this man, the first and third president of the Republic of Texas. The most populous city in Texas is now named for him.
Sam Houston secured the independence of Texas from Mexico by winning this 20-minute rout, at which the forces of Santa Anna were defeated
This politician served as the president of Texas in between Houston's terms. During his tenure, he issued a worthless currency called "redbacks."
Samuel Houston
Battle of San Jacinto
Mirabeau B. Lamar [or Mirabeau Buonaparte Lamar] &lt;Jose&gt;
A woman who married into this family, Isabella d'Este, patronized artists such as Titian and Leonardo. For 10 points each:
Name this family. Federico II of this family was granted the title of Duke of Mantua for supporting Emperor Charles V in the Italian wars.
Charles V was a member of this dynasty which controlled both Spain and Austria.
Federico II patronized this man, whose most famous book is set over four nights in the court of Elisabetta Gonzaga. He advised readers to avoid flattery and to give the impression of sprezzatura, or "effortlessness," in his Book of the Courtier.
Gonzaga
Hapsburg [or Habsburg]
Baldassare Castiglione (cass-teel-YO-nay) &lt;Bentley&gt;
Identify the following about the caste system of New Spain, for 10 points each.
Only second to the peninsulares class on la casta were these people. This term identified people of European descent who were born in the New World.
Mestizos were officially defined as people born to a Spanish father and a mother of this race. The first Mestizo was traditionally held to be the offspring of Hernan Cortes and La Malinche, a member of this race.
A mestizo's father might have made his fortune by owning one of these large estates. Indians were effectively bound to work on these estates, which, unlike an encomienda, were generally not granted by the crown.
criollos [or creoles]
Indians [or Native Americans; or Aztecs; or Maya; or Nahuas]
haciendas &lt;Bentley&gt;
This emperor tried to get the Senate to make his horse Incitatus a consul. For 10 points each:
Name this Julio-Claudian emperor who came to power in 37 AD after succeeding his adoptive father Tiberius.
Suetonius claims that Caligula's campaign against Britain ended with troops being ordered to perform this action in order to obtain "spoils of the sea."
This force of bodyguards used by the Roman Emperor conspired with the Senate to have Caligula assassinated and replaced with Claudius. Sejanus was the prefect of this force during the reign of Tiberius.
Caligula [or Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus; do not prompt on partial answers]
collecting seashells [or collecting conchae]
Praetorian Guard [or Praetoriani] &lt;Jose&gt;
Elmgreen and Dragset installed a fully stocked store of this brand in the middle of the desert near Marfa, Texas as an art project. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian fashion house whose subsidiaries include Miu Miu. Its famous products include minimalist black nylon bags and the cross-hatched leather Saffiano bag.
Like Versace and Dolce &amp; Gabbana, Prada is headquartered in this fashion capital of Italy. This city in Lombardy has the largest metropolitan area of any Italian city.
Adama Ndiaye founded a fashion week in this city to compete with similar European events in cities like Milan and Paris. This city's island of Goree housed a major slave trading port under the Wolof dynasty.
Prada S.p.A.
Milan [or Milano]
Dakar, Senegal &lt;Kothari&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the economic history of the Middle East.
Much of the prosperity of the Middle East during the Middle Ages can be attributed to this network of trade routes that connected the Far East with the Middle East. It is named for a good produced by a type of worm.
The western terminus of the Silk Road was this largest city in Syria. The world's largest covered market, the Souq Al-Madina could be found in this city and was its major marketplace.
Along the Silk Road, travelers could stay in these inns, which were similar to khans. These inns could also be found along the Royal Road and the Grand Trunk Road.
Silk Road
Aleppo
caravansaries &lt;Jose&gt;
This king began a mania for Chinese art in England by installing a Chinese drawing-room in Carlton House. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch known for his lavish tastes and affairs with Lady Hertford and Lady Conyngham. This man became Prince Regent due to the insanity of his father.
George IV introduced the Pains and Penalties Bill in order to perform this action on his queen, Caroline of Brunswick. The Matrimonial Causes Act of 1937 made it easier for women to initiate this procedure on the grounds of adultery.
George IV helped make this English city a popular seaside destination by building the Royal Pavilion there. Quack doctor Richard Russell convinced people they'd get healthier by bathing in the sea water at this city.
George IV [or George Augustus Frederick IV; prompt on George]
divorce [or annulment; or dissolution of marriage]
Brighton &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man was stabbed to death in 1769 by a member of the Peoria tribe. For 10 points each:
Name this chief of the Ottawa tribe and victor at the Battle of Bloody Run. Fort Pitt was besieged during a war named for this man.
Pontiac's War was launched in the aftermath of this global conflict. George Washington marched in the Braddock Expedition and fought at the Battle of the Monongahela during this war.
This British general helped spark Pontiac's Rebellion by forbidding the sale of weapons to Native Americans. This man successfully laid siege to the fort of Louisbourg during the French and Indian War, and infamously ordered smallpox-infected blankets to be used against Pontiac's forces.
Pontiac [or Obwandiyag]
French and Indian War [or Seven Years' War]
Jeffery Amherst, 1st Baron Amherst [or Geoffrey Amherst or Jeffrey Amherst] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This queen punished her husband for having an affair by cutting off his mistress' locks and placing them on his pillow. For 10 points each:
Name this queen of Castille who refused to bury the dead body of her husband Philip the Handsome. This mother of Charles V spent most of her adult life confined to a castle in Tordesillas.
Juana was the second daughter of this queen of Castile. Her marriage to Ferdinand of Aragon united the Spanish nation.
Another one of Isabella's daughters, Maria, married into this Portuguese royal dynasty whose members included Henry the Navigator. Portugal's later ruling house, the Braganza, began as a cadet branch of this dynasty.
Juana the Mad [or Joanna the Mad; or Juana I; or Joanna I; or Juana la Loca]
Isabella I [or Isabela I]
House of Aviz &lt;Bentley&gt;
This country was led by the Marxist-leaning president Samora Machel until his 1986 death in a mysterious plane crash. For 10 points each:
Name this African country where the FRELIMO and RENAMO parties fought a protracted civil war.
RENAMO was originally sponsored as an anti-Communist organization by Ian Smith's white-dominated government in this country, which ceased to exist in 1979.
In 1975, Mozambique gained independence from this European country, which gave up its last colony of Macau in 1999. This country got its start on colonialism when Vasco de Gama sailed to India and began the conquest of Goa.
Mozambique
Rhodesia [do not accept or prompt on "Zimbabwe"]
Portugal &lt;Wang&gt;
One of the few people who actually believed in this misconception was the "Christian geographer" Cosmas Indicopleustes, who drew a picture of the heavens as a curved lid to a box. For 10 points each:
Name this fringe theory that suggested one could sail over the edges of the world.
This author's fictional biography of Christopher Columbus popularized the misconception that the scholars of the medieval era believed in a flat earth. His book Salmagundi was the first to call New York City "Gotham."
Modern proponents of a flat earth theory allegedly include Ustaz Mohammed Yusuf, who founded this group known for its violent actions in the city of Chibok.
flat earth theory [accept clear equivalents]
Washington Irving
Boko Haram &lt;Jose&gt;
The Cherokee Indian who is the namesake of this path was a member of the First Dragoon Expedition, a mission in which the government made first contact with the Plains Indians. For 10 points each:
Name this trail that ended in Abilene and was used to drive cattle north to the railways.
Abilene is a city in this state. In 1859, the Wyandotte Constitution decided that this state would enter the Union as a free state, reversing this state's earlier pro-slavery Lecompton Constitution.
The southern terminus of the Chisholm Trail was in this state, whose longhorn cattle were also driven along the Goodnight-Loving Trail. The siege of the Alamo also occurred in what would become this state.
Chisholm Trail
Kansas
Texas &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about a certain system that was dominant during the Dark Ages, for 10 points each:
In return for tilling their lands and doing other work, peasants would be protected by the lord's armies as part of this system, whose name comes from the Germanic word for "property."
Rulers would give this piece of land to a lord, which the peasants would till. An urbarium was a register listing those who owned this kind of land.
This was the name given to a member of the social class that was not a serf. Ranked just below the gentry, this class was not rich but was able to own free land. Its name comes from a Latin word meaning "territory held without dues."
feudalism [or feudal society]
fiefs [accept fiefdoms]
franklins &lt;Jose&gt;
Richard Coote, the Earl of Bellomont, had the bodies of this man and his son-in-law reinterred after they were executed by Henry Sloughter for revolting in the aftermath of the Glorious Revolution. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th-century German-born merchant, who led a rebellion expelling the colonial administrator Francis Nicholson from New England.
Leisler's Rebellion took place in the territory that is now this modern day state. Its city of Schenectady was besieged during King William's War.
The territory of New York City, then New Amsterdam, had earlier been expanded during the tenure of this Dutch director-general, nicknamed "Old Silver Leg" for his artificial leg.
Jacob Leisler
New York
Peter Stuyvesant &lt;Jose&gt;
Dietrich Bonhoeffer was tried and executed for trying to kill this world leader. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Nazi party, who was condemned by Pope Pius XI in the encyclical Mit brennender Sorge or With Burning Concern.
The rise of Nazism is often illustrated with this pastor's poem that opens "First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out, Because I was not a Socialist." It concludes "Then they came for me, and there was no one left to speak for me."
Members of this Christian denomination, the first banned by the Nazis, were marked with purple triangle badges in concentration camps. Publications of this group include The Watchtower and Awake!.
Adolf Hitler
Martin Niemöller
Jehovah's Witnesses &lt;Jose&gt;
The tense in this song was changed when one country adopted it as a national anthem in the 1920s. For 10 points each:
Name this song which proclaims, "Arise, ye workers from your slumber ... for reason in revolt now thunders."
"The International" was the anthem of this Lenin-led party, the rival of the Mensheviks. It came to dominate Russia following the October Revolution.
"The International" was written to honor the First International, which had its first congress in this city. Henry Dunant organized an 1864 conference concerning wounded soldiers in this city which created a Convention agreement named for it.
"The International" [or "L'Internationale" or "Internatsional"]
Bolsheviks [or Bolshevik Party]
Geneva, Switzerland [or Genève; or Genf] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Theodor de Bry's 1617 <em>Grand Voyages</em> negatively portrayed this country's empire. For 10 points each:
Name this Catholic country. A style of writing called the Black Legend emphasizes the evils of this country's South American empire and its active Inquisition.
This churchman's History of the Indies and other writings were a great source material for Black Legend writers. This man freed the Indians in his parish in 1514 and encouraged other encomenderos to do so as well.
This Spaniard was the subject of an unflattering history by Agustin de Zarate. This rival of Diego de Almagro ordered the execution of a captive despite having received a ransom of a room filled with gold and silver.
Spain [or Kingdom of Spain or Reino de Espana]
Bartolomé de las Casas
Francisco Pizarro [or Francisco Pizarro González] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This woman allegedly had an affair with former U.S. presidential candidate Wendell Willkie. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who died in 2005 at the age of 105. She was noted for her trips abroad to promote the Nationalist cause and for her work as her husband's translator.
In 1949, Madame Chiang Kai-shek, along with her husband, fled to this island after China fell to the Communists. This island became the Republic of China.
Taiwan joined this country, whose longtime leader was Lee Kuan Yew, as one of the economically powerful "Four Asian Tigers." Stamford Raffles founded this country as a trading post.
Soong May-ling [or Madame Chiang Kai-shek; or answers such as Mrs. Chiang]
Taiwan [or Formosa]
Republic of Singapore &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Stepan Bandera led this country's nationalist movement, which carried out massacres of Poles in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country where the Yalta Conference was held. Over 600,000 Soviets were killed or captured during the Nazi encirclement of its capital, Kiev.
Prisoners of the Syrets concentration camp were forced to clean up all signs of a massacre at this ravine outside Kiev, where 33,000 Jews were killed.
This other massacre of Poles was ordered by Lavrentiy Beria. The USSR blamed this incident on Nazi Germany until classified documents were released in 1990.
Ukraine [or Ukrayina]
Babi Yar
Katyn Forest massacre &lt;Golimlim&gt;
A practice known as "blood-flashing," in which people inject each other's heroin-laced blood into their bodies, has become common in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this African city whose status as a major smuggling hub has created a major drug crisis for its population.
Mombasa is one of the many stops along a new heroin-trafficking route that begins in this country. Much of its opium production was restricted during the rule of the Taliban.
This current Kenyan president has taken increased measures to curb the illegal heroin trade, including having his Interior Ministry blow up a drug-smuggling yacht in August 2015.
Mombasa
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Uhuru Kenyatta [prompt on Kenyatta] &lt;Golimlim&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about Jewish immigration to the United States.
Many Jews that immigrated to the United States had their passports processed at a facility on this island off the coast of New York City.
This Texas city's namesake "movement" encouraged Jews to immigrate through it rather than New York, leading it to be nicknamed the "Ellis Island of the South." It was essentially destroyed by a gigantic hurricane in 1900.
Jewish immigration from Eastern Europe was restricted by a 1924 Immigration act named for Albert Johnson and a senator with this surname. A speaker of the House with this surname introduced namesake "rules" to combat the disappearing quorum tactic during the 1890s.
Ellis Island
Galveston
Reed &lt;Weiser&gt;
A leader with this rank was embarrassed when the crew of the battleship <em>Velos</em> defected to Italy. For 10 points each:
Name this military rank held by Giorgos Papadopoulos and other members of the military junta which ran a Balkan country for seven years following a 1967 coup.
This country was ruled by the "Regime of the Colonels," which eventually forced its king Constantine II to flee its capital of Athens.
Papadopoulos used the army to suppress a 1973 strike against his regime by people of this sort. A Situationist pamphlet on the "poverty" of the life of these people helped spark the May 1968 events in France, which was begun by occupations led by these people.
colonels [or syntagmatarchis]
Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Hellas]
university students &lt;Brownstein&gt;
This action was supposedly carried out because the construction of the Point Salines International Airport would have allowed Soviet planes to land. For 10 points each:
Name this military action code-named Operation Urgent Fury, which overthrew the Marxist New Jewel Movement and installed a government more friendly to capitalism.
Later in the 1980s, the US invaded Panama to overthrow this military dictator. He was captured by the Marines and charged with drug trafficking after being forced out of the papal embassy.
The U.S. had earlier attempted to overthrow this man in the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion. The CIA allegedly tried to kill this prime minister of Cuba using an exploding cigar.
U.S. invasion of Grenada [or obvious equivalents]
Manuel Noriega [or Manuel Antonio Noriega Moreno]
Fidel Castro [or Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about unsolved crimes in American history, for 10 points each.
Four encoded letters, only one of which has been decoded, were sent by a man claiming to be this unidentified killer, who murdered several people in the Bay Area in the 1960s and 1970s.
This man committed the only unsolved skyjacking in American history. He extorted $200,000 and parachuted off of a plane with the money; neither his body nor most of the money were ever found.
After having his sentence commuted by President Nixon, this former leader of the Teamsters mysteriously vanished. Many suspect that his death had to do with his links to organized crime.
Zodiac Killer
D. B. Cooper [or Dan Cooper]
Jimmy Hoffa [or James Riddle Hoffa] &lt;Jose&gt;
This term was used to describe men such as Diamond Glenn McCarthy and Tom Slick who made their fortunes in Texas on otherwise unpromising land. For 10 points each:
Name this term also used to describe seedy banks that put out fancy looking notes but then disappeared before the notes could be redeemed in the aftermath of the collapse of the Second Bank of the United States.
The Second Bank of the United States was once led by this man, who succeeded Langdon Cheves as its president and issued reliable BUS notes that served as a de-facto national currency.
This president clashed with Biddle and ultimately defunded the Second Bank. This president nicknamed "Old Hickory" once fought a duel over his wife Rachel.
wildcat bank(s) [or wildcatter]
Nicholas Biddle
Andrew Jackson &lt;Bentley&gt;
It was organized by Prince Albert, and took place at a Joseph Paxton-designed structure called the Crystal Palace. For 10 points each:
Name this 1851 event, which purported to showcase the "Works of Industry of all Nations."
Henry Bessemer displayed sugar-refining machinery at the Great Exhibition, several years before inventing a namesake process which was used to convert pig iron to this alloy.
An article called the "Morals of the Great Exhibition" was published by this weekly humor magazine, which helped pioneer the modern political cartoon and was named for a traditional stock character.
Great Exhibition of 1851 [or The Great Exhibition of the Works of Industry of all Nations; prompt on World's Fair]
steel
Punch [or The London Charivari] &lt;Jose&gt;
This country's government allegedly paid Lionel Messi 3.5 million euros to preside over a ceremony at a soccer stadium in July 2015. For 10 points each:
Identify this country, currently embroiled in a Birther controversy that alleges that Ali Bongo Ondimba was born in Nigeria and thus is ineligible to be president.
Ali Bongo Ondimba has been ordered to produce a birth certificate by a judge from this country, where much of Omar Bongo's fortune is sheltered. In 2013, this country intervened in Mali as part of Operation Serval.
On a recent visit to this country's capital of Nairobi, Barack Obama joked, "Some of my critics back home might be suggesting I'm here to look for my birth certificate. That's not the case."
Gabon
France
Kenya &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about ungoverned geographical units, for 10 points each.
Esperanto enthusiasts tried to establish a "national" language in the post-Napoleonic territory of Neutral Moresnet (moh-ray-NAY), which was set up between Germany and this country. Moresnet is currently a part of this country, like its cities of Antwerp and Brussels.
The MAREZ territories are strongholds of Zapatista rebels in this southernmost Mexican state, which borders Veracruz and Tabasco.
James Scott's The Art of Not Being Governed examines anarchist resistance to control in this geographical region, encompassing the highlands of Southeast Asia. This term, coined in 2002, derives from the name of a Tibeto-Burman hill people.
Belgium
Chiapas
Zomia &lt;Ray&gt;
A system from this country that restricted the profits of tavern-keepers to 5% gained popularity in Scotland. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose temperance movement led to the establishment of alcohol ration-books in 1917. An alcoholic and drug addict was the only person tried for the unsolved murder of its Prime Minister Palme in 1986.
The third Swedish king of this name tried to ban private alcohol production before his assassination at a masked ball. The fifth king of this name was a Nazi sympathizer who reigned from 1907 to 1950.
Sweden's temperance movement was kickstarted by a Temperance Society founded by Samuel Owen in this city, the country's capital.
Sweden [or Sverige]
Gustav
Stockholm &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Between one third and one half of all European immigrants to the Thirteen Colonies in the 17th century arrived in this status. For 10 points each:
Identify this status of people who labored for seven or so years before earning their freedom.
In this colony, the indentured servant John Punch became one of the first Africans sentenced to slavery in the English colonies. Many residents of a settlement in this larger colony perished during the Starving Time.
Contracts of indenture were frequently used within this industry. New Bedford, a center of this industry in the United States, became known as "The City that Lit the World."
indentured servitude [or indentured servants]
Colony of Virginia
whaling industry [or whale oil industry; prompt on fishing industry] &lt;Bentley&gt;
A treaty named for this number of years was signed shortly after King Pleistonax may have accepted a bribe. For 10 points each:
Give this number of years that identifies a peace signed between Athens and Sparta in 445 BC. Critias led a group of this many people that oversaw the execution by hemlock of one of its members, Theramenes.
The Thirty Years Peace brought the first conflict of this name to an end. Thucydides wrote a "History" of this conflict, which ended with Lysander's victory at the Battle of Aegospotami.
This Athenian statesman ruled Athens and agreed to the Thirty Years Peace. Thucydides records the rousing funeral oration he gave during the Peloponnesian War.
thirty [or Thirty Years Peace; or the Thirty Tyrants]
Peloponnesian War
Pericles &lt;Jose&gt;
This system restricted freedom of movement through the "pass laws," which essentially required people to carry internal passports. For 10 points each:
Identify this system of mass racial segregation in South Africa.
Apartheid regulation intensified after this 1960 massacre, in which white police officers shot and killed over 60 black people during a protest against the pass laws.
In 1976, another wave of black protests began with the Soweto Uprising, in which black students protested being taught this language, the native tongue of H.F Verwoerd and P.W. Botha.
apartheid
Sharpeville Massacre
Afrikaans [prompt on Dutch] &lt;Wang&gt;
Due to their economic domination of the Southern Great Plains, this tribe's territories were controversially called an "Empire" in a 2008 book by Pekka Hämäläinen. For 10 points each:
Name this Native American tribe known for leading horse raids on Mexican and Texan settlements during the early 19th century.
During the 18th century, the Comanche entered the Southern Great Plains and displaced this other Native American tribe. A leader of this tribe succeeded Mangas Coloradas and surrendered to Nelson Miles in Skeleton Canyon in 1886.
The Comanche originally entered the Great Plains after breaking off from the Shoshone people, whose most famous member was this female translator who aided the Lewis and Clark expedition.
Comanche
Apache
Sacagawea [or Sakakawea] &lt;Wang&gt;
A mosaic of Orpheus can be found in one of these structures in Woodchester, and the largest one of these built in Britain may be the Fishbourne Roman Palace. For 10 points each:
Name these large country homes used by wealthy ancient Romans. One of these built by Hadrian can be found in Tivoli.
This emperor's palace in modern-day Split, Croatia, is partly based on the design of villas. This emperor tried to stabilize the Roman economy by issuing the Edict on Maximum Prices.
Many Roman homes contained a collecting basin of rainwater called an impluvium in one of these rooms. These places were often the most richly decorated area of a home, and often contained wax busts of the owner's ancestors.
villas [or villae]
Diocletian [or Diocles; or Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus Augustus]
atrium [or atria] &lt;Jose&gt;
This activity was practiced by thousands of underlings of a woman known as Ching Shih. For 10 points each:
Name this activity practiced by the Japanese wokou, who were a major issue during the reign of the Jiajing Emperor of the Ming dynasty.
Asian pirates often used these Chinese sailing vessels known for their paneled, square sails.
The pirate Chen Zuyi, who ruled the city of Palembang, was defeated and executed during one of the "treasure voyages" of this eunuch admiral of the Ming dynasty.
piracy [or anything indicating being a pirate, buccaneer, corsair, or other obvious equivalents; prompt on raiding, marauding, stealing, or similar answers]
junks
Zheng He &lt;Brownstein&gt;
This country's government has employed a system capable of man-in-the-middle-powered DDOS attacks on websites dubbed the Great Cannon. For 10 points each:
Identify this country which also operates the Great Firewall to suppress information about topics critical of Xi Jinping's administration.
In 2015, the Great Cannon was used against this company, headed by Chris Wanstrath. This company has become the de-facto standard for collaborating on programming projects.
Github was targeted by malicious code inserted into this Chinese search engine company. This company's public face is Robin Li and greatly benefited from Google's withdrawal from mainland China.
China [or People's Republic of China or PRC]
github [do not prompt on "git"]
Baidu, Inc. &lt;Bentley&gt;
In honor of this family, the architect Filarete designed an ideal city in the shape of an eight-point star. For 10 points each:
Name this family. A member of this family, Francesco, became duke of a city previously ruled by the Viscontis.
Francesco Sforza established his control over this city, the current capital of Lombardy, by becoming friends with Cosimo Medici of Florence and marrying his daughter to Alfonso II of Naples.
"Francesco Sforza came to power by deposing a "Golden Republic" named for this historical person. The republic named for this person was led by 24 "Captains and Defenders of Liberty."
Sforzas
Milan [or Milano]
St. Ambrose [or Golden Ambrosian Republic; or Aurea Repubblica Ambrosiana] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Answer the following about the Fighting Instructions, which governed how the British navy fought during the Age of Sail, for 10 points each.
The Fighting Instructions mandated that ships form a line so that that these weapons could be used from the broadside position. Powder boys were tasked with bringing the gunpowder used to fire these weapons.
The Instructions mandated that British ships line up on this side of the enemy, the opposite of the French preference. Fighting on this side made it virtually impossible for a British captain to retreat from battle.
An early version of the Instructions was drafted by a man with this ducal title. A house of this name lost the English throne when Richard III was killed at the Battle of Bosworth Field.
naval cannons [prompt on naval artillery]
on the weather gage [or upwind; or windward]
York &lt;Bentley&gt;
This event started after the motorist Marquette Frye was pulled over by a cop for drunk driving. For 10 points each:
Name these riots which took place in a namesake neighborhood for about a week in August, 1965.
The Watts Riots lasted for six days in this West Coast city. In 1992, much of this city rioted again after four police officers were acquitted for the beating of Rodney King.
During the "long hot summer" of race riots two years after the Watts Riots, major riots occurred in Detroit and this other city. Cory Booker's 2002 campaign against Sharpe James for mayor of this city is chronicled in the documentary Street Fight.
Watts Riots
Los Angeles [or L.A.]
Newark, New Jersey &lt;Jose&gt;
Participants in this revolt included the officer Nikolai Muravyov, as well as members of the Salvation and Benevolent Unions. For 10 points each:
Name this revolt that took place during the reign of Nicholas I. At the height of this revolt, rebels gathered in Senate Square to swear loyalty to its namesake constitution.
The Decembrist revolt took place in this city. This city became Russia's "Window to the West" after it was constructed on the Baltic, in part by Swedish prisoners captured during the Great Northern War.
The Decembrist revolt began after this man, Nicholas' older brother, refused to take the throne. The 1830 storming of this man's castle sparked Poland's Cadet Revolution.
Decembrist revolt [or Decembrist uprising; or Vosstanie dekabristov]
Saint Petersburg [or Petrograd; or Leningrad]
Konstantin [or Konstantin Pavlovich; or Constantine I] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man claimed that his neighbor's dog was possessed by a demon and had told him to kill. For 10 points each:
Name this man who began a shooting rampage in 1976. Laws named for this man prevent criminals from profiting from their crimes.
A Son of Sam law was invoked in the 1980s against this man, who committed a murder outside The Dakota apartment building and was in possession of the novel The Catcher in the Rye when found by police.
Mark David Chapman killed this member of the Beatles in December 1980.
David Berkowitz [or Son of Sam; or Richard David Falco; or the .44 Caliber Killer; do not accept "Sam"]
Mark David Chapman
John Winston Lennon [or John Ono Lennon] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Large quantities of this resource were first discovered in Nigeria by Shell Darcy near Oloibiri. For 10 points each:
Name this natural resource that is drilled for in large quantities in the Niger delta. Nigeria belongs to OPEC, an international organization that oversees much of the production of this commodity.
This ethnic group of Southern Nigeria traditionally lived in the area of the Oloibiri oil field area. The secessionist state of Biafra was mostly populated by members of this ethnicity.
This Nigerian writer led a non-violent campaign against Nigeria's oil industry while serving as the president of MOSOP. This man was hanged by Sani Abacha's regime for supposedly killing several Ogoni chiefs.
oil [or petroleum]
Igbo people [or Ibo people]
Ken Saro-Wiwa [or Kenule Beeson Saro-Wiwa] &lt;Hothem&gt;
Michael Witzel led the opposition to attempts by members of this religion to change Californian textbooks, part of a project decried by its opponents as "saffronization." For 10 points each:
Name this religion. A history of it by Wendy Doniger was withdrawn by a Penguin subsidiary after nationalists of this religion accused it of heresy.
Many Hindu nationalists seek to soften references to this system in textbooks. This system divided Hindu society into groups like religious leaders, or Brahmins, and warriors, or Kshatriyas.
This ruling Indian party is committed to Hindutva, or Hindu nationalism. This party, led by Narendra Modi, played a role in the destruction of the Babri Mosque in Ayodhya.
Hinduism
caste system [or varnas; or jatis]
Bharatiya Janata Party [or BJP] &lt;Kothari&gt;
This man was offered the office of Regent of France following the death of Louis IX's mother, Blanche of Castile. For 10 points each:
Name this baron who reinstituted the Provisions of Oxford after winning the Battle of Lewes. He was killed at Evesham a year later.
The government run by Simon de Montfort after the Battle of Lewes was set up in a treaty named for this city. A murder in this city allegedly occurred after a king asked his knights, "Who will rid me of this troublesome priest?"
Simon de Montfort expelled these people from Leicester in 1231. Edward I expelled these people from all of England in 1290, and they were kicked out of Spain by the Alhambra Decree.
Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester
Canterbury
Jews [or Jewish people] &lt;Bentley&gt;
One of these events resulted in the death of Button Gwinnett, a signer of the Declaration of Independence. For 10 points each:
Identify these events, one of which took place at Weehawken, New Jersey in 1804.
This first Treasury Secretary was killed in the aforementioned duel with Aaron Burr at Weehawken.
Hamilton's animosity towards Burr began when Burr defeated this man, Hamilton's father-in-law, in a Senate race in 1791. This man was acquitted of charges of incompetence at a 1779 court martial after being relieved of his command and replaced by Horatio Gates.
duels
Alexander Hamilton
Philip Schuyler (SKY-ler) [or Philip John Schuyler] &lt;Bentley&gt;
During this era, Giuseppe Pinelli was killed when he allegedly fell from a police station window while being questioned about a bank bombing. For 10 points each:
Give the name for this turbulent period of Italian history, which lasted from the late 1960s to the early 1980s.
Marxist brigades named for this color carried out terrorist activities during the Years of Lead. Like many Communist groups, the brigade had a flag whose background was this color.
The Red Brigades specifically targeted personnel from this organization stationed in Italy in an attempt to pressure Italy to leave this organization. Article 5 of this Brussels-based organization was invoked for the first and only time in response to the September 11th attacks.
The Years of Lead [or anni de piombo]
red [or rosse]
NATO [or North Atlantic Treaty Organization] &lt;Bentley&gt;
One of Narendra Modi's campaign promises was to stem the so-called "pink-revolution" happening in India in this industry, which was banned in Maharashtra in 2015. For 10 points each:
Identify this industry, in whose global exports India trails only Brazil.
Modi has also pledged to offer universal access to this service to India's citizens. Japan's Softbank recently invested $20 billion in Indian solar ventures which will help provide this service to poor, rural areas.
While still Chief Minister of this Indian state, Modi broke ground on a one gigawatt solar plant, the largest in the world at the time. The Godhra train bombing took place in this western India state in 2002.
beef industry [or leather industry or cattle slaughtering industry or butchering industry; prompt on agriculture]
electricity [accept equivalents like power, etc.]
Gujarat &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about Romulus Augustulus, the final emperor of the Western Roman Empire, for 10 points each.
Romulus Augustulus was the son of Orestes, a Pannonian nobleman who entered the court of this leader of the Huns after his land was captured. This man's army was halted at the Battle of Chalons.
This Germanic king deposed Romulus Augustulus and became the first king of Italy. In 493, Theodosius invited him to a banquet and had him murdered.
From 402 until the collapse of the Roman Empire, this city served as its capital. In later times, this city was the seat of the Kingdom of Lombardy.
Attila the Hun
Flavius Odoacer
Ravenna &lt;Jose&gt;
Fighting in this city broke out due to the food supplies from Operation Restore Hope being stolen by clan leaders instead of being used to feed the populace. For 10 points each:
Name this city, where two Black Hawk helicopters were shot down after U.S. special forces had been tricked into thinking they had found Mohammed Farrah Aidid.
Mogadishu is the capital of this nation, which had been fighting a violent civil war when the aforementioned battle was fought.
This Egyptian secretary general of the U.N. had to preside over the Somali crisis. During his time leading, he submitted An Agenda for Peace, a proposal on how the U.N. should handle international violence.
Mogadishu [accept First Battle of Mogadishu]
Federal Republic of Somalia
Boutros Boutros-Ghali &lt;Jose&gt;
This pope's 1979 visit to his native Poland catalyzed the formation of the Solidarity movement. For 10 points each:
Name this pope who preceded Pope Benedict XVI, serving from 1978 to 2005. He was the first non-Italian pope since the 16th century.
John Paul II discussed topics like the resurrection, celibacy, and natural family planning in six cycles of lectures on the theology of this entity, which he claimed is oriented toward marriage.
The Theology of the Body lectures were discussed in Pope Benedict XVI's Deus caritas est, which meditates on the relationship between Christianity and three Greek terms for this concept, including agape. C. S. Lewis wrote a book on four kinds of this concept.
Pope John Paul II [or Karol Józef Wojtyła; prompt on John Paul or JP II]
the body
love &lt;Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about the Manitoba schools question of the 1890s, for 10 points each.
Manitoba's premier Thomas Greenway cut funding for religious schools because the number of Manitoba residents in this church had declined significantly. A plurality of French-speaking Canadians belong to this church.
The 1870 Manitoba Act, which established a system of Protestant and Catholic schools in the province, was signed by this man's provisional government. This member of the Métis people led the Red River Rebellion.
The Manitoba Schools Question allowed this man to defeat Charles Tupper in the 1896 federal election. This man was Canada's first French-speaking prime minister.
Roman Catholic Church [prompt on the Christian church]
Louis David Riel
Wilfrid Laurier [or Sir Henri Charles Wilfrid Laurier] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This event began after a car crash in the Jabaliya refugee camp. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict, which lasted from 1987 until the signing of the Oslo Accords in 1993. Its name translates as "shaking off," and it was followed by a second such event in 2000.
The First Intifada was an unsuccessful effort by these people to forge their own state. The PLO agitates for the rights of this group, who live in the West Bank and Gaza Strip territories.
While serving as Minister of Defense during the First Intifada, this Israeli earned the nickname of "bone breaker" after his instructions to "break the bones" of demonstrators. This man was serving as Prime Minister when he was assassinated in 1995.
First Intifada [accept but do NOT reveal First Palestinian Intifada]
Palestinians [or Palestinian Muslims; or residents of Palestine]
Yitzhak Rabin &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man was tapped for his highest post while serving as President of Texas A&amp;M. For 10 points each:
Name this man, the only cabinet member from the Bush administration who joined the Obama cabinet. He wrote the tell-all memoir Duty about his time serving both presidents.
Gates served in this cabinet position before resigning in 2011. Ash Carter is the current holder of this position, which was earlier held by Donald Rumsfeld.
In Duty, Gates describes how hard he had to fight to get more frontline troops in Iraq equipped with these types of vehicles, which are better able to withstand explosions from IEDs. The BAE Caiman 4×4 is an example of the Category I type of these vehicles.
Robert Gates [or Robert Michael Gates]
Secretary of Defense
MRAPs [or Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Medieval Arab historians such as al-Tabari contended that this woman was Arab and not Greek and was originally named al-Zabba. For 10 points each:
Name this Queen of Palmyra who revolted against Emperor Aurelian, gaining control of Egypt and some of Asia Minor.
Zenobia compared herself to this Egyptian monarch when refusing an invitation to surrender at the siege of Palmyra. This woman and her lover Mark Antony were defeated at the Battle of Actium.
According to Edward Gibbon, Zenobia "almost fainted under the intolerable weight of jewels" during one of these events. Vercingetorix was strangled after appearing in one of these events, during which a slave had the job of whispering a memento mori.
Zenobia [or Julia Aurelia Zenobia; or Septimia Zenobia; or Znwbya Bat Zabbai]
Cleopatra [or Cleopatra VII Thea Philopator; or Cleopatra the Father-Loving Goddess]
Roman triumphs &lt;Bentley&gt;
These laws mandated prison sentences of at least 15 years for selling more than two ounces of substances such as cannabis or heroin. For 10 points each:
Name these New York State laws of the 1970s, named for a governor with the first name Nelson.
Many people who were ultimately prosecuted under the Rockefeller drug laws were arrested during one of these proceedings. The name for this type of police stop comes from a 1968 Supreme Court case concerning reasonable suspicion.
In 1973, Michigan passed a law which mandated this type of sentence for people who were found in possession of over 650 grams of either heroin or cocaine. Defense attorney Clarence Darrow helped secure this type of sentence for the murderers Leopold and Loeb.
Rockefeller Drug Laws
Terry stops
life sentence without the possibility of parole [or lifelong incarceration; or life imprisonment plus 99 years] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about the history of aircraft in the United States, for 10 points each.
The Wright brothers made the first successful controlled flight at this small town on the Outer Banks of North Carolina.
On May 20, 1927, Charles Lindbergh began his successful nonstop flight from New York to Paris in this single engine plane.
The Memphis Belle was the nickname for one of these "flying fortresses" built by Boeing, which were used during World War II.
Kitty Hawk, North Carolina
Spirit of St. Louis
Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress &lt;Jose&gt;
Name these historians of ancient Rome, for 10 points each.
This man described his conquest of Gaul in his Commentaries on the Gallic Wars. This politician was assassinated on the Ides of March.
This historian wrote a biography of his uncle Agricola, and a monograph on the state of Germania. His Annals covers the reigns of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero.
This historian, who reported that he survived a suicide pact by making sure that he was the last person to draw a lot, described the war between the Roman Empire and the Jewish population in his The Jewish War.
Gaius Julius Caesar
Publius Gaius Cornelius Tacitus
Titus Flavius Josephus [or Joseph ben Matityahu] &lt;Jose&gt;
This man's father was arrested for protesting the signing of the Bryan-Chamorro treaty. For 10 points each:
Name this Nicaraguan guerrilla leader, nicknamed El Chipotle, who was kidnapped and murdered by members of his country's National Guard in 1934 after meeting with President Juan Bautista Sacasa.
The Bryan-Chamorro Treaty granted the US rights to build one of these structures in Nicaragua, though one of these structures was built through Panama instead.
The US Marines' campaign against Sandino, which included a bombing of some scarecrows set up at his base, occurred concurrently with their occupation of this country. In 1994, the US carried out Operation Uphold Democracy to reinstate this country's president Jean-Baptiste Aristide.
Augusto Cesar Sandino [or Augusto Calderon Sandino or Augusto Nicolas Sandino]
a canal between the Atlantic and the Pacific
Republic of Haiti &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about American industrial disasters, for 10 points each.
In 1911, 129 women and 17 men were killed in one of these disasters at a factory owned by the Triangle Shirtwaist Company.
In 1860, 145 people were killed when the Pemberton Mill in Lawrence, Massachusetts collapsed. The mill had been partially financed by this prominent New England industrial family, also the namesake of a town where mill girls worked long hours under the Waltham system.
111 people were killed by the 1947 explosion of a coalmine in a town of this name in Illinois. A fire has been burning in a mine under a Pennsylvania town of this name since 1962, resulting in the abandonment of the area.
fires
Lowell family [or the Lowells]
Centralia &lt;Bentley&gt;
In 1931, Lord Lytton led an international commission to investigate the circumstances surrounding the establishment of this state. For 10 points each:
Name this state whose nominal ruler was the former Chinese emperor Puyi.
After the Lytton Commission issued a negative report about Manchukuo, Japan permanently withdrew from this international organization, a predecessor to the United Nations.
Manchukuo was established after Japanese soldiers staged this 1931 "incident," in which they blew up one of their own railways and placed the blame on local Chinese dissidents.
Manchukuo [prompt on Manchuria]
League of Nations
Mukden Incident &lt;Wang&gt;
This city's <em>fin-de-siècle</em> (fan duh SYECK-luh) culture involved many discussions in coffeehouses, and is the subject of a book by Karl Schorske. For 10 points each:
Name this city once governed by Karl Lueger, who declared "it is up to me to decide who is a Jew."
While living in Vienna as a homeless failed artist, this future dictator and author of Mein Kampf was probably inspired by Karl Lueger's rhetoric.
This monarch initially refused to recognize Karl Lueger's election as mayor. Franz Ferdinand was the heir of this first and only Emperor of Austria-Hungary, a position which he held until his death in 1916.
Vienna [or Wien]
Adolf Hitler
Franz Joseph I [or Francis Joseph I] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Charles Bradlaugh was the first man elected to Parliament to openly subscribe to this position, a stance which caused problems at his swearing in ceremony. For 10 points each:
Identify this belief. A later Englishman, Richard Dawkins, supported this belief in his book The God Delusion.
The Fourth Party, a group of four members of this British political party, opposed Bradlaugh's attempts to gain a seat in Parliament. This party's principles were outlined in the Tamworth Manifesto, written by its leader Robert Peel.
In Parliament, Bradlaugh protested the 4,000 pound pension awarded annually to the holder of this ducal title. A husband of Sarah Jennings with this ducal title won the Battles of Oudenarde and Malplaquet.
atheism [or obvious equivalents of "God does not exist"]
Conservative Party [or Tory Party]
Duke of Marlborough &lt;Bentley&gt;
The prologue of Jared Diamond's <em>Guns, Germs, and Steel</em> introduces a question asked by Yali, who leads one of these groups. For 10 points each:
Identify this term for religious movements of Melanesia whose leaders promise that the gods will send material wealth if devotees perform actions such as building mock airstrips and planes.
A cargo cult in Vanuatu is centered around this figure, apparently based on a World War II soldier. His followers participate in a military-style march in his honor each February 15th.
John Frum is based on servicemen from this country who came to Vanuatu in the 1940s. In what was wrongly first described as a cargo cult, residents of New Hanover voted for this country's President Johnson to rule the island.
cargo cults
John Frum [or John Brum; or John From; prompt on partial answers]
the United States of America [or America] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Madame Geoffrin (zhow-FRAN) used these events to bring together members of circles such as the philosophes and the encyclopedists. For 10 points each:
Name these gatherings, usually run by aristocratic women, that were popular in 18th-century French high society.
Both this man's wife, Suzanne Curchod (cure-SHOW), and his daughter, Germaine de Stael, hosted popular salons. The dismissal and banishment of this finance minister helped spark the storming of the Bastille.
Members of this faction attended salons held by Madame Roland. The purge of this faction led Charlotte Corday to assassinate Jean-Paul Marat in his bathtub.
salons
Jacques Necker
Girondists [or Girondins; or the Gironde] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
This dynasty built two massive walls at Dong Hoi during a prolonged 17th-century war with the Trinh lords. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty whose last ruler, Bao Dai, spent much of his final ruling years in France.
The Nguyen Dynasty fought against the French colonization of this present-day Southeast Asian country, whose "North" and "South" halves were united after the fall of Saigon.
This man held a fraudulent referendum in which 98 percent of voters supposedly called for the deposition of Bao Dai and the formation of a republic under this man. This Catholic then served as President of South Vietnam until his 1953 assassination.
Nguyen Dynasty [pronounced "win" but accept phonetic pronunciations as well]
Vietnam [or Socialist Republic of Vietnam]
Ngo Dinh Diem &lt;Golimlim&gt;
The Speenhamland System allocated this service based on the price of bread and family size. For 10 points each:
Give this general term for government aid to the poor under the British Poor Laws. The "outdoor" type of this service was allocated to recipients who still resided in their homes.
Recipients of indoor relief typically entered these unhappy establishments where they might labor to break apart stones. A 1723 act championed by Edward Knatchbull deliberately made these institutions as undesirable as possible.
The so-called "Old Poor Law" dates back to the reign of this English "Virgin Queen," the last Tudor to rule England.
relief
workhouses [or poorhouses; or spike]
Elizabeth I [or Elizabeth Tudor; or Good Queen Bess; prompt on Elizabeth] &lt;Bentley&gt;
A popular, but likely inaccurate legend states that this man ate lemons whole in an attempt to cure his dyspepsia. For 10 points each:
Name this military man whose last words, "Let us cross over the river, and rest under the shade of the trees," may have been a reference to his West Virginian childhood.
Stonewall Jackson was killed by friendly fire at this battle, in which Robert E. Lee's much smaller army defeated Joseph Hooker's Army of the Potomac.
Stonewall Jackson earned his nickname at this battle when, while serving as a lieutenant-general, he repelled the attacks of Irvin McDowell and Robert Patterson.
"Stonewall" Jackson [or Thomas Jonathan "Stonewall" Jackson]
Battle of Chancellorsville
Battle of First Bull Run [or Battle of First Manassas; prompt on "Bull Run"; prompt on "Manassas"] &lt;Jose&gt;
This man's "World" is the subject of a historical study by Ward Stavig, which examines this man's empire production of <em>chicha</em>, or corn beer. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, the nephew of Huascar and Atahualpa, who was executed by the Spanish in 1572.
The death of Tupac Amaru marked the end of the final remnants of this empire, which had ruled modern-day Peru before the Spanish conquest.
An 18th-century rebel leader who took Tupac's name was in turn the namesake of the radical group which seized the Japanese embassy during the tenure of this president of Peru. This man of Japanese descent created death squads to combat the Shining Path insurgency.
Tupac Amaru [prompt on Tupac]
Incan Empire
Alberto Fujimori [Alberto Kenya Fujimori Inomoto] &lt;Jose&gt;
An organization that regulated these two resources held the Messina Conference, at which the Spaak Committee was formed. For 10 points each:
Name these two commodities, the most notable products of the Ruhr and Saar regions, which named the European Community that preceded the European Union.
This speech declared that the European Coal and Steel Community would make war "not merely unthinkable, but materially impossible." This "Declaration" is named for the French foreign minister who wrote it.
The ECSC created the European Economic Community at a 1957 treaty named for this city. The Lateran Treaty made the Vatican an independent state within this city.
coal AND steel [accept in either order]
Schuman Declaration [or Schuman Plan]
Rome [or Roma] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Name these crops introduced to Africa through the Columbian Exchange, for 10 points each:
This tuber, now a staple crop of Africa and Asia, actually originated in the tropics of the Western Hemisphere. In the U.S., it is commonly conflated with the yam.
Nigeria is now the world's largest producer of this other tuber, which is native to the Amazon. This crop, which cannot be eaten raw because it contains cyanide, is often dried to produce tapioca.
In the late 1940s the British government unsuccessfully tried to cultivate 150,000 acres of Tanzanian scrubland with this crop, which originates from the Andes. This crop was championed by the head of the Agriculture Department at Tuskegee University.
sweet potato
cassava [or manioc]
peanut [or groundnut] &lt;Wang&gt;
This king ruled England without a Parliament from 1629 to 1640, a period known as the "Eleven Years' Tyranny." For 10 points each:
Name this English king who was beheaded in 1649 after losing a civil war to Oliver Cromwell.
As part of his personal rule of England, Charles I provoked outrage when he attempted to levy this tax on inland towns during peacetime. This tax was traditionally only paid by coastal towns during wartime.
The execution of Charles I became possible after this colonel of the New Model Army detained less radical members of the Long Parliament as part of his namesake "purge," thus creating the Rump Parliament.
Charles I [prompt on Charles]
ship money
Thomas Pride &lt;Wang&gt;
The "Door of No Return" in Elmina Castle was one starting point for this journey. For 10 points each:
Identify this journey, which came to be dominated by the British following the asiento of 1713. This journey was a part of the triangular trade.
One Door of No Return memorial is located in modern-day Benin, the site of this African kingdom. The Europeans who obtained slaves from the rulers of this kingdom referred to this kingdom's female warriors as "Amazons."
During the slave trade, perhaps five million people were sent across the Middle Passage to this South American country colonized by Portugal. Escaped slaves from this country formed communities called Quilombos.
Middle Passage
Dahomey
Brazil [or Brasil] &lt;Bentley&gt;
A one-time member of this political party described it as a union made between "the lords of the lash and the lords of the loom." For 10 points each:
Name this political party which split into Cotton and Conscience factions. This party coalesced around Henry Clay and Daniel Webster in 1834 on a platform opposing Andrew Jackson's Democrats.
This Conscience Whig was a brother-in-law of the leader of the Cotton Whigs, Nathan Appleton. He was caned by Preston Brooks after giving the "Crime Against Kansas" speech.
Another Conscience Whig was Thurlow Weed, who once published The Register from this city. A political machine based in this city was dominated by William Marcy and Martin Van Buren.
Whigs
Charles Sumner
Albany &lt;Bentley&gt;
Henry IV issued <em>De Heretico Comburendo</em> to combat these people, who were sometimes also called Beghards. For 10 points each:
Name these English religious dissenters whose leader, John Wyclif, advocated such reforms as translating the Bible into English.
This scholar created and names the first English translation of the Bible. In 1536, this man was executed by strangulation for heresy in the Netherlands.
Many Lollards were persecuted following the Oldcastle Revolt, which began after John Oldcastle escaped from this building. This fortress on the Thames was used both as a prison and as the home of the Crown Jewels.
Lollards [or Lollardy; or Lollardism]
William Tyndale
the Tower of London [or the White Tower] &lt;Bentley&gt;
For several millennia, sofers have worked in this profession in Jewish communities. For 10 points each:
Identify this profession. People working in this profession in Ancient Egypt would likely have carried out their work using the Demotic script.
Starting around 2500 BCE, Mesopotamian scribes started writing in this script. The name of this script comes from the wedge-shaped marks that scribes generated by pressing their stylus to the clay tablets.
Scribes spelled the name of Shulgi, a king of this city, with a Dingir sign, indicating that he was deified during his lifetime. Leonard Woolley excavated the "Ram in a Thicket" statues in this city.
scribes [or copyists]
cuneiform script
Ur [do not accept "Uruk"] &lt;Bentley&gt;
In the mid 19th century, thousands of Chinese coolies were employed to harvest this resource from Peru's Chincha Islands. For 10 points each:
Name this nitrogen-rich resource frequently harvested off isolated Pacific islands in the 19th century to make fertilizer.
Guano declined in importance as a fertilizer after Chile began to mine large amounts of nitrogen-rich saltpeter in this extremely dry South America desert, which lies west of the Andes.
The first European to document the fertilizing properties of guano was this polymath, who published the text Kosmos and wrote a major political essay on the Kingdom of New Spain.
guano [accept answers such as dung or poop or feces; accept specific kinds such as bird dung or bat poop]
Atacama Desert
Alexander von Humboldt &lt;Wang&gt;
Beginning in 1879, this institution partnered with the nearby Dickinson College. For 10 points each:
Name this Pennsylvania boarding school established by Richard Pratt whose mission was to "Kill the Indian in him, and save the man".
Perhaps the most celebrated alum of the Carlisle School was Jim Thorpe, whose achievements at the 1912 iteration of this event were stripped by the IOC because he was not an amateur. 11 Israelis were killed in the Munich iteration of this event in 1972.
In Canada, school chief Duncan Campbell Scott established a boarding school system whose goal was to assimilate all native peoples of Canada. Non-Inuit native people in Canada are given this name, of which the government now recognizes 634 distinct peoples.
Carlisle Indian Industrial School [or United States Indian Industrial School]
Summer Olympics [or Games of the Olympiad]
First Nations &lt;Bentley&gt;
This faction controlled the city of Bologna, which fought a war with Modena over a wooden bucket. For 10 points each:
Name this faction active in Italy during the 12th and 13th centuries. It backed the Pope in opposition to the Ghibellines, who supported the Holy Roman Emperor.
The Guelfs took their name from the Welf dynasty, whose members included this Duke of Saxony and Bavaria. This man with an animal nickname lost Austria when his cousin Frederick Barbarossa issued the Privilegium Minus.
At the 1266 Battle of Benevento, the Guelfs backed a brother of Louis IX of France with this name from Anjou. A king of this name known as the "great" was crowned the first Holy Roman Emperor on Christmas Day by Leo III.
Guelfs
Henry the Lion [or Henry III; or Henry XII; or Heinrich der Löwe; prompt on Henry or Heinrich]
Charles [or Carolus Magnus; or Charlemagne] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This person was arrested in London in 1998 due to human rights violations during his presidency, but he was eventually released due to his ill health. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who took financial advice from a group nicknamed the Chicago boys. He came to power in 1973 following a coup that overthrew Salvador Allende.
Augusto Pinochet headed this South American country now led by Michelle Bachelet. This country's independence from Spain was fought for by José Miguel Carrera and Bernardo O'Higgins.
Pinochet's trial addressed his administration's suppression of dissent through Operation Colombo and this operation supported by the United States in several South American countries.
Augusto José Ramón Pinochet Ugarte
Republic of Chile
Operation Condor [Spanish: Operación Cóndor, also known as Plan Cóndor or Operação Condor]&lt;Reinstein&gt;
The sale of these things inspired the rhyme, "When the coin in the coffer rings, the soul from Purgatory springs!" For 10 points each:
Name these remissions for sins, which Christians paid for in order to reduce time spent in Purgatory. The sale of these things was denounced in Martin Luther's 95 Theses.
This seller of indulgences earned the opposition of Martin Luther by proclaiming, "You should know: whoever has confessed and is contrite and puts alms into the box...will have all his sins forgotten."
Tetzel responded to Luther's 95 Theses with 106 theses ghostwritten by Konrad Wimpina and named for this city. This capital city of Napoleon's Confederation of the Rhine was the site of a united German parliament in 1848.
indulgences
Johann Tetzel
Frankfurt am Main &lt;Bentley&gt;
This country's President Petro Poroshenko asked Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk to step down in February 2016, but Yatsenyuk did not resign until April. For 10 points each:
Name this country with an ongoing dispute with Russia over the Crimean peninsula.
President Poroshenko promised to sell his lucrative chocolate business in 2014. Documents released in the 2016 Panama Papers scandal show that this Panamanian law firm set up an offshore holding company for the business.
Yatsenyuk did not want to resign immediately because he wanted this party that he co-founded in 2014 to remain in power. He left the Fatherland Party to form this party.
Ukraine
Mossack Fonseca
People's Front [or Popular Front or Naroadnee Front] &lt;Reinstein&gt;
A dispute between this country and Italy over control of Trieste was resolved by an international commission in 1954. For 10 points each:
Name this country which Stalin expelled from the Cominform in 1948, prompting its head of state, a former leader of the Partisans, to adopt a policy of self-management.
An earlier dispute between Italy and Yugoslavia occurred when the poet Gabriele D'Annunzio seized this port city and proclaimed it the Regency of Carnaro. D'Annunzio founded his "City of the Holocaust" in this city, located in present-day Croatia.
A 1920 treaty with Greece gave Italy control of islands such as this one, whose namesake Colossus statue was one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.
Yugoslavia [or Kingdom of Yugoslavia or Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes]
Fiume [or Rijeka or Reka]
Rhodes [or Rodos] &lt;Bentley&gt;
The first settlers of this colony established a settlement on Yamacraw Bluff in 1733. For 10 points each:
Name this American colony founded by James Oglethorpe. During the Civil War, this state was devastated by William T. Sherman's March to the Sea.
In Georgia: A Short History, the historian E. Merton Coulter argued that "Probably not a dozen people who had been in jail for [being in this condition] ever went to Georgia," despite the colony's later reputation as being a haven for people in this condition.
Some Scots founded a settlement of this name in Georgia in 1736. A notorious scheme of this name to colonize Panama bankrupted Scotland in the late 17th century and led to the Act of Union.
Georgia
debt bondage [or debt slavery; or being in debt]
Darien &lt;Bentley&gt;
One man often celebrated during this period is Garret Morgan, who patented one of the first of stop lights to have three distinct states. For 10 points each:
Name this month-long celebration of people such as Booker T. Washington and inventor George Washington Carver.
Black History Month gained federal recognition under this president. In college, this man declared that he would sit out a football game against Georgia Tech if William Ward, Michigan's only African American player, was not allowed to play.
Black History Month often honors Madame C. J. Walker, who became the first black female millionaire in America by founding a company that sold this general type of product.
Black History Month [or Negro History Week or National African American History Month]
Gerald Ford [or Jerry Ford or Gerald Rudolph Ford Jr. or Leslie Lynch King Jr.]
cosmetics [or beauty products; or hair tonic; or obvious equivalents] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This kingdom's second war with Britain was concluded by the Treaty of Mangalore after the sudden death of Hyder Ali. For 10 points each:
Identify this kingdom ruled from Seringapatam by Tipu Sultan.
A 1799 siege of Seringapatam was justified by rumors that Tipu Sultan had signed an alliance with this country, whose chief outpost in India was located at Pondicherry. This country's control of India declined after the Battle of Plassey.
Tipu Sultan owned a life-sized automaton that depicted one of these animals attacking a British man. A Tamil secessionist militant group on Sri Lanka was nicknamed for these animals.
Kingdom of Mysore
France [or Kingdom of France or French Republic]
tigers &lt;Bentley&gt;
This Athenian statesman chose to build a fortified port at Piraeus, and was effectively responsible for converting Athens into a naval power. For 10 points each:
Name this politician, who commanded the Athenian navy at the Battles of Artemisium and Salamis.
The Battle of Artemisium was fought at the same time as this land battle, during which Leonidas and his Spartans fended off the armies of Xerxes before being slaughtered.
Themistocles was ostracized after the Spartans implicated him in the treasonous plot of this Spartan general, who had earlier defeated Mardonius at the Battle of Plataea. He shares his name with a geographer who wrote Description of Greece.
Themistocles
Battle of Thermopylae
Pausanias &lt;Jose&gt;
The prosecutor in this case was particularly upset that the defendant believed that Man evolved "not even from American monkeys but from old world ones." For 10 points each:
Name this 1925 case that concerned the teaching of the theory of evolution.
During the Scopes trial, Clarence Darrow called this man, the prosecution's lawyer, to the stand and asked him questions about the creation of Eve. This man died five days after the trial.
Bryan played a role in both the growth of the Christian fundamentalism movement and this other Protestant movement also led by Washington Gladden. This movement sought to improve the conditions of industrial society through Christian teachings.
Scopes Monkey Trial [or The State of Tennessee v. John Thomas Scopes]
William Jennings Bryan
Social Gospel &lt;Bentley&gt;
Presidential candidates campaigning in this state will often stop for photo-ops next to the butter cow at its State Fair. For 10 points each:
Identify this state, the first in each presidential election cycle to hold a caucus.
Republican candidates in Iowa frequently make trips to this Midwest fast-food chain, which advertises that it "believes in the power of prayer." Mike Huckabee won Iowa in 2008 in part by hard-selling patrons of this buffet chain from its free-to-use party rooms.
Another goal for politicians hoping to win Iowa is to earn an endorsement from this Des Moines newspaper. Ann Selzer runs a highly respected poll of Iowa for this largest paper in the state.
Iowa
The Pizza Ranch, Inc.
The Des Moines Register &lt;Bentley&gt;
A politician from this family attempted to pass the <em>Lex Sempronia Agraria</em>, a plan to reform Roman <em>latifundia</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this family of Tiberius, a brother of Gaius who was killed and thrown into the Tiber river after his reforms angered the Roman aristocracy.
The Lex Sempronia Agraria limited the amount of this resource a Roman citizen could own. This resource was measured using the unit of jugerum, which consisted of a 240 by 120 foot area.
Tiberius Gracchus was killed by members of this group of politicians that represented the interests of the wealthy. Unlike the rival populares, its members did not favor the people's assemblies or the democratic tribune.
Gracchus [or Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus; prompt on Sempronius]
land [or property]
Optimates &lt;Jose&gt;
People who paid a tax for having these things carried a token called the <em>znak</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these things, widely worn among Old Believers and the boyar class, which were targeted in some 1705 decrees implemented by a leader after his Grand Embassy tour of Europe.
This reforming czar of Russia personally began shaving off the beards of noblemen after returning from his Grand Embassy. This "Great" czar fought the Great Northern War with Sweden.
Peter's other attacks on the traditional power of the boyars included this system of official positions which was based a grid layout of military, civil, and court posts.
beards
Peter I the Great [or Pyotr]
Table of Ranks [or Tabel' o Rangakh] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Most of what we know about these people comes from a series of reliefs in the temple of Medinet Habu, which depicts them fighting Ramesses III in the Battle of the Delta. For 10 points each:
Identify these mysterious "peoples" that ravaged the eastern Mediterranean world during the Bronze Age Collapse.
The invasion of the Sea Peoples may have caused the downfall of this Anatolian empire, which had earlier fought Egypt in the Battle of Kadesh.
The Bronze Age Collapse ended the use of this written script, the only one in the Mycenaean language that has been deciphered.
Sea Peoples
Hittite Empire
Linear B [do not accept "Linear A"] &lt;Wang&gt;
Gisele Halimi provided legal protection to 343 French women who signed a statement admitting to have undergone this procedure. For 10 points each:
Name this type of procedure legalized in France by the Veil Law, which involves the termination of an unwanted fetus.
Simone Veil oversaw the legalization of abortion in this decade, during which the International Women's Year occurred. In Spain, the ban on contraceptives was lifted after Francisco Franco's death in this decade.
Abortion and other forms of birth control were condemned as contrary to the sanctity of life in this 1968 encyclical issued by Pope Paul VI.
abortion [prompt on birth control]
1970s
Humanae Vitae &lt;Brownstein&gt;
Recently, this man proposed a tax plan that would deduct one day's pay from anyone making over a thousand dollars a month to help fund the reconstruction of Guayaquil (gwah-ya-KEEL). For 10 points each:
Name this current president of Ecuador.
To deal with this kind of disaster that struck Ecuador on April 16, 2016, Rafael Correa proposed a "millionaire's tax" as part of a plan to rebuild infrastructure and compensate victims. One of these striking Kyūshū on the same day led to the issuance of a tsunami warning.
In 2015, numerous people protested this kind of tax set at around 75 percent proposed by Rafael Correa. Correa withdrew the bill for this kind of tax and a capital gains tax shortly afterwards.
Rafael Correa
earthquake [prompt on quake]
inheritance tax &lt;Jose&gt;
This man probably lived in Valencia for a period of time, during which he unsuccessfully proposed to improve that city's harbor. For 10 points each:
Name this explorer who claimed territory for England while visiting Newfoundland on his ship, the Matthew. He disappeared on his second voyage.
Cabot and his sons were granted letters patent for an expedition to the New World by Henry VII, the first monarch from this English dynasty.
One of the objectives of Cabot's second voyage was to visit this country. Inhabitants of this country referred to Western knowledge as "Dutch learning."
John Cabot [or Zuan Cabotto]
House of Tudor
Japan [or Nippon] &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man ordered the arrest of the Comte de Montmorency-Bouteville in an attempt to stamp out dueling among the aristocracy. For 10 points each:
Name this man who also founded the Academie Francaise. On the Day of the Dupes, he survived an ouster attempt orchestrated by Marie de Medici.
Richelieu helped set Samuel Champlain up as Governor of New France, an office located in this city. Benjamin Wolfe died on the Plains of Abraham during a 1759 battle fought outside this Canadian city.
A later French cardinal to run the French government, Cardinal de Fleury, had to deal with the collapse of this company. Scottish financier John Law created its namesake "bubble" by encouraging speculation on this company.
Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand Jean du Plessis, Cardinal-Duke of Richelieu and of Fronsac]
Quebec
Mississippi Company [or Company of the West] &lt;Bentley&gt;
A traditional folk song of people working on this body of water contains the repeated cry of "Yo, heave ho!" For 10 points each:
Name this body of water. Peasants known as burlaki used harnesses and ropes to drag barges up and down this body of water.
Most of the burlaki were from this class of enslaved peasants, who were emancipated by Alexander II in 1861.
The Volga region was also settled by people of this ethnicity during the reign of Catherine the Great. The colonization of Eastern lands by people of this ethnicity, known as the "Drive to the East," was adopted into the propaganda concept of "Living Space."
Volga River
Russian serfs [or krepostnoi]
Germans [or Deutsche] &lt;Bentley&gt;
Kenesaw Mountain Landis oversaw the trial of 113 members of this organization after their Chicago headquarters was raided during World War I. For 10 points each:
Name this radical labor organization whose founders included "Big Bill" Haywood and Eugene V. Debs. Its members were known as "Wobblies."
This Irish-born co-founder of the IWW organized a march of silk workers dubbed the "Children's Crusade," and was called "the most dangerous woman in America" for her work with the United Mine Workers.
In 1917, a KKK-associated group tarred and feathered members of the IWW in this city. The "Black Wall Street" of Greenwood District was burned to the ground by whites during this city's 1921 race riot.
Industrial Workers of the World [or IWW; do not accept "International Workers of the World"]
Mother Jones [or Mary Harris Jones]
Tulsa, Oklahoma &lt;Golimlim&gt;
In 1968, this country's president was almost killed in an incident named for the residence of this country's leader. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose leader lives in the Blue House. In 1953, this country was split from its communist northern neighbor by a demilitarized zone.
This man, South Korea's first democratically elected president was ousted in the April 19 Revolution and exiled to Hawaii. He was known for his suppression of dissidents, such as his army's massacre of over 15,000 people on Jeju Island.
One of Syngman Rhee's proposed, but unsuccessful, reforms was his attempt to simplify this Korean script, which had been introduced by Sejong the Great.
South Korea [or Republic of Korea]
Syngman Rhee
hangul &lt;Jose&gt;
This heresy is named for the man who objected to Bishop Felix of Aptunga's consecration of Caecilian. For 10 points each:
Name this heresy originating in North Africa, which held that priests who had previously made sacrifices to Roman emperors and pagan gods could not administer sacraments.
The Donatists were upset with those priests administering this sacrament in particular, the process of initiating a person into Christianity. It is usually administered with water.
To rule on the Donatist matter, this ruler appointed Miltiades, who concluded that the sacraments were actually valid contra the Donatists. A document in the False Decretals claims that this man gave the Western Roman Empire to the Pope.
Donatism [or Donatists and other word forms]
baptism [or word forms]
Constantine the Great [or Constantine I] &lt;Jose&gt;
During the Kulturkampf, Bismarck told the Reichstag that "we will not go" to this place. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian castle outside of which Henry IV kneeled for three days in the snow. That penitential "walk" to this castle resulted in Gregory VII briefly reversing Henry's excommunication.
The castle of Canossa was owned by a countess of this name who backed Pope Gregory against Henry IV during the investiture controversy. Another woman with this name ensured her son's succession to the English throne with the Treaty of Wallingford.
The investiture controversy was eventually ended by a Concordat signed in this German city. Martin Luther was questioned at a 1521 diet in this city.
Canossa
Matilda [or Maude; or Matilde]
Worms &lt;Brownstein&gt;
This king annoyed the Puritans by allowing activities such as Whitsun-ales and dancing on Sundays. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who was presented with the requests of 1,000 Puritan ministers in the Millenary Petition. This monarch's intolerance for Catholicism made him the target of Robert Catesby.
The demands of the Millenary Petition were discussed at a conference in this palace that led to the commission of the King James Version of the Bible. Henry VIII seized this palace from Cardinal Wolsey after Wolsey's fall from favor.
During the reign of James I, a group of English Puritans set off from England to Plymouth, Massachusetts on this ship. The pilgrims on this ship signed a namesake compact.
James I [or James VI of Scotland; prompt on James]
Hampton Court Palace
The Mayflower &lt;Bentley&gt;
The plaintiff in this case was a member of the Citizens' Committee to Test the Constitutionality of the Separate Car Law. For 10 points each:
Name this 1896 Supreme Court case which infamously upheld the standard of "separate but equal."
This Supreme Court justice may have been influenced by his black half-brother Robert in casting the lone dissenting vote in Plessy. Like his grandson of the same name, this justice was known as the "great dissenter."
This man served as Plessy's lawyer. His time as a carpetbagger inspired his novel A Fool's Errand and he took a hard stand against the KKK as editor of The Continent.
Plessy v. Ferguson [or Homer Adolph Plessy v. John H. Ferguson; or Homer Adolph Plessy v. The State of Louisiana]
John Marshall Harlan, Sr.
Albion Wingar Tourgée &lt;Bentley&gt;
This man perished during the Battle of Cerro Cora in a war which left his country's population in a state such that women outnumbered men nine to one. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator who led his country into the War of the Triple Alliance against Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay.
Francisco Solano Lopez led this country, whose history of repression under Alfredo Stroessner is documented in "Archives of Terror" found in its capital Asuncion.
Francisco Solano Lopez's father, Carlos, was forced into hiding by this earlier Paraguayan dictator, who established a government based on Rousseau's The Social Contract.
Francisco Solano Lopez
Republic of Paraguay
José Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia y Velasco &lt;Jose&gt;
Walter Burkert wrote that the tendency towards sacrifice in this civilization's religion was a transference from violence against animals in his book <em>Homo Necans</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient civilization, which often sacrificed one hundred cattle or a hecatomb before their ancient contests called the Olympics.
In ancient Greek custom, this was the act of sacrificing an animal by burning it in its entirety. It is contrasted with the thyesthai, in which half of an animal was burnt.
Dead humans in ancient Greek custom were often buried with a coin called an obol placed in this specific location so they can pay Charon in the afterlife.
Greek civilization
Holocaust [or Holokautein]
in the mouth [accept equivalents; or under the tongue] &lt;Jose&gt;
Identify the following about Investor-State Dispute Settlement, for 10 points each,
Elizabeth Warren has criticized this agreement for including ISDS in its many provisions. This agreement also forces New Zealand to adopt longer copyright protections and outlaws countries forcing manufactures to make source code public.
A company in this industry successfully sued the government of Australia for requiring that its products be sold in plain packages with large health warnings. A 1998 settlement forced companions in this industry to compensate victims of lung cancer.
This country is facing an ISDS lawsuit from the Swedish company Vattenfall for speeding up its timetable to close its nuclear plants. Thanks to this country's ambitious energy transition plan, renewables now contribute more power than its lignite coal plants.
Trans-Pacific Partnership [or TPP]
tobacco industry [or cigarette industry]
Germany &lt;Bentley&gt;
The English word "pecuniary" derives from the Latin word pecus for these creatures, indicating that much of the ancient world regarded these animals as a visible sign of wealth. For 10 points each:
Name these livestock animals. Herding these creatures was the primary occupation of the Argentine gauchos.
This country's cattle industry employed "drovers" and "stockmen" to push cattle around. In its other dealings with herds of animals, it constructed a massive fence to wall off an out-of-control rabbit population and used machine guns in a "war" against its flightless birds in the 1930s.
This tribe of nomadic cattle herders, closely related to the Samburu and Turkana, has heavily intermarried with the Kikuyu. Outside Kenya, their morani, or warriors, have a reputation as fierce lion hunters.
cattle [or cows; or bulls; or oxen]
Commonwealth of Australia
Masai [or Maasai]
Almost half of this man's crew was killed by scurvy in the three winters his expedition spent on an island in the St. Croix River. For 10 points each:
Identify this French explorer who was wounded in an attack on an Iroquois village on Lake Huron. He founded the city of Quebec.
Champlain's winters on the St. Croix River were in this colony in New France, whose name is a corruption of a Greek region celebrated for its pastoralism. The many French speakers in this colony deported by the British in 1755 went on to become the Cajuns in New Orleans.
The British gained control of most of Acadia through this treaty. Spain ceded the right to the asiento to Great Britain in this treaty, through which the French recognized Victor Amadeus II as King of Sicily.
Samuel de Champlain
Acadia [or Acadie; do not accept "Arcadia"]
Treaty of Utrecht [or Peace of Utrecht or Treaties of Utrecht]
These people founded the Sultanate of Rum over what had been Byzantine Anatolia. For 10 points each:
Name this Turkish dynasty which branched off from the Oghuz Turks. It was a major power in the Near and Middle East from its 11th-century victory at Manzikert into the early 14th century.
The Seljuk empire built many of these rest stops, where traders were allowed to stay for free for up to three days, along its routes. They were traditional for a much longer time span along the roadsides of Persia.
Further away, the Rabati Malik caravanserai was built by a ruler of this city as a stop between it and Bukhara. The Gur-e-Amir mausoleum, uncovered just before the Nazi invasion of the USSR, is in this city, where a prominent observatory was built by Ulug Beg.
Seljuk Turks [or Seljuk dynasty; or Seljuk empire]
caravanserais [or kervansaray; or han; prompt on inns]
Samarkand, Uzbekistan
Several centuries-old examples of these things were unearthed in Blackfriars in London in the 1960s. For 10 points each:
Identify these archeological objects. The Vikings, who used these objects to conduct their raids, were often buried in these vessels.
Discovered in 1939, this site in Suffolk County in England contains a burial ship furnished with lavish possessions of an Anglo-Saxon king. King Raedwald may once have been buried on the ship at this archaeological site.
This bizarre device made largely of interlocking gears was found underwater in an ancient Hellenic shipwreck in the southwestern Aegean. The prevailing theory is that it was an "analog computer" for finding the relative positions of stars.
ships [or boats]
Sutton Hoo
Antikythera mechanism [or Antikythera shipwreck]
A key witness against these people was David Greenglass. For 10 points each:
Name these people, a married couple, who were sentenced to death under the Espionage Act by judge Irving Kaufman for having committed a crime "worse than murder".
The Rosenbergs were sentenced for passing along information on these types of weapons to the Soviets. One of these weapons was dropped by the Enola Gay.
Ethel Rosenberg became the first woman executed in the United States since boardinghouse owner Mary Surratt, who was hanged for her role in this crime.
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg [or the Rosenbergs]
atomic bombs [or nuclear bombs]
the assassination of Abraham Lincoln [accept equivalents that involve killing Abraham Lincoln or helping the men that killed Abraham Lincoln]
Answer the following about the profession of the scribe, for 10 points each.
Assyrian or Babylonian scribes probably also produced works in the namesake language of this empire which was commonly spoken throughout Mesopotamia. The founder of this empire, Sargon the Great, won the Battle of Uruk.
Roman scribes, who could employ rustic or uncial script, often belonged to this class of people made up of former slaves. In the US, a bureau for this sort of person was set up during Reconstruction.
Jean Mielot was a translator and scribe in the court of this Duke of Burgundy and father of Charles the Bold, who held the Feast of the Pheasant in an attempt to raise support for a Crusade.
Akkadian Empire
freedmen [or liberti]
Philip the Good [or Philip III; or Philippe le Bon; prompt on Philip]
This nation poured a huge amount of national resources into athletics, and as such its athletes took home 20 gold medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics. For 10 points each:
Identify this Communist nation ruled by men such as Walter Ulbricht. A border separating this nation from its capital neighbor contained Checkpoint Charlie.
This was the name for East Germany's secret police. Officially called the Ministry for State Security, this organization allowed Libyan agents free passage in East Berlin to carry out the 1986 discotheque bombings. 
This vehicle produced by VEB Sachsenring could seat four passengers but was notorious for its polluting exhaust and awful performance on the road. As with the similar Wartburg car, production of this vehicle ceased following reunification. 
East Germany [or German Democratic Republic or GDR; do not accept or prompt on "Germany"]
Stasi [or Ministry for State Security; or Staatssicherheit]
Trabant
This monarch uses a sword called Joyeuse. For 10 points each:
Name this white-bearded monarch. In his primary literary appearance, his armies face off against King Baligant of Babylon after a pitched battle against the armies of the pagan king Marsile.
This nephew and paladin of Charlemagne dies heroically at Roncesvalles in an Old French chanson de geste named for him. Later Italian tales about him changed his name to Orlando.
Roland dies when he finally agrees to take this cautionary measure; he performs this act with such intensity that his brains burst out of his head.
Charlemagne [or Charles I of France; or Charles the Great]
Roland
blowing the Oliphaunt horn to call for reinforcements [or blowing the Oliphaunt; accept answers that involve using a horn; prompt on answers such as "calling for help"]
A massive stupa mound was built over the remains of this city, whose artifacts include a seal depicting a horned god and the four-inch-tall Dancing Girl sculpture. For 10 points each:
Identify this city home to a water tank known as the Great Bath, which was located in what is now the Sindh province in the 3rd millennium BC. The name ascribed to it by archaeologists means "mound of the dead."
Along with the Harappa site in Punjab, Mohenjo-Daro was a part of a mysterious early civilization that flourished in this river's valley. It runs through the Ladakh plateau in what's now Pakistan.
This other site, the southernmost major uncovered city of the Indus valley civilization, is noteworthy as one of the first uncovered ports of the ancient world, from which it became a center of trade for the bead industry.
Mohenjo-Daro
Indus River [or Indus Valley Civilization]
Lothal
A union of people in this profession led by John Lewis staged a controversial wartime strike in 1943. For 10 points each:
Identify this profession. Many people of this profession were killed during the Battle of Blair Mountain in 1921.
 John Lewis broke away from this organization by founding the Congress of Industrial Organizations or CIO, although that union later reunited with this one under George Meany. This union largely superseded the Knights of Labor.
The AFL was founded by this man, an English immigrant who got his start working in a cigar factory.
 miners [or mine workers]
AFL-CIO [or American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations ]
Samuel Gompers
Answer the following about Seneca the Younger, for 10 points each.
He wrote a satirical piece named for the "pumpkinification" of this ruler. Robert Graves wrote a pair of historical novels narrated by this Roman Emperor, titled I, [this man], and [this man] the God.
Seneca's bloody tragedies inspired a genre of Elizabethan and Jacobean drama named for this concept, examples of which include Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus. Thomas Kyd's The Spanish Tragedy, the first play in that genre, includes a personification of this concept in the chorus.
Seneca was forced to commit suicide in the wake of the Pisonian conspiracy, as was this other Roman playwright, Seneca's nephew. This man wrote an epic poem about the civil war between Pompey and Julius Caesar called Pharsalia.
Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus [do not prompt on any partial answers; accept I, Claudius or Claudius the God]
revenge [accept revenge tragedy or revenge play; answer must include the word revenge]
Lucan [or Marcus Annaeus Lucanus]
One of these works was developed by the successors of Pseudo-Ingulf at the Croyland Abbey. For 10 points each:
Name this specific type of document. The E version of the "Anglo-Saxon" one of these documents concludes in the year 892.
The "chronicle" of this country is a hypothesized collection of annals like the Annals of Ulster. The Annals of the Four Masters mentions Saint Patrick, who evangelized this island.
This "venerable" historian wrote about the proper date for Easter in his On the Reckoning of Time and chronicled English history from the days of Julius Caesar in his landmark Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
chronicles
Ireland [or Eire]
The Venerable Bede [or Baeda or Beda]
Trains! For 10 points each:
Early trains such as Stephenson's Rocket were developed in this country's city of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. It was the first country to undergo the Industrial Revolution.
Later, this Nazi was responsible for coordinating most of the train transit of Jews to death camps. He was executed by hanging in 1962.
This President of France, the leader of the Independent Republicans, supported the TGV high speed rail project, and held power during its groundbreaking in 1975.
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [or UK; or Great Britain; or England]
Adolf Eichmann [or Otto Adolf Eichmann]
Valery Giscard d'Estaing [prompt on "d'Estaing"]
The name for these people derives from an Arawak word for a horizontal spit they used to create smoked meat, which they sold among their more legal activities. For 10 points each:
Name these outlaws, mostly of English and French descent, who gathered on the isle of Tortuga to raid Spanish ships in the early modern Caribbean. Many of them later became legally-approved privateers when granted letters of marque.
Many buccaneers raided this large class of long-beaked ships, which sailed in annual fleets taking silver between New Spain and Manila.
Later, in 1720 two women were convicted of piracy by the British governor of Jamaica; both had joined "Calico Jack" Rackham on the crew of the Revenge and "pleaded the belly" to get their executions stayed due to pregnancy. Name either.
buccaneers [or boucaniers; prompt on pirates][The cooking apparatus and the meat were both called boucan.]
galleons
Anne Bonny OR Mary Read
The Akademia, Lykeion and Kinosarges were the three public examples of these places in Athens. For 10 points each:
Identify these places where Ancient Greeks might train in the nude for the Greater Panathenaia games. These places also served as educational facilities.
Greek athletes would cover their skin in this material along with a coating of dust. This substance, made from fruit of an olive tree, was often stored in jars called amphorae.
During the Panathenaia festival, Athenians would march past this part of town. Similar to the Roman forum, this open space in the center of a Greek city might contain shops and be enclosed by public buildings.
gymnasium [or gymnasion; or gym]
olive oil
agora
A pest that targets this crop entered the US from Mexico and began devastating yields in 1892. For 10 points each: 
Identify this cash crop, whose devastation by the boll weevil is credited by some scholars with aiding the Great Migration and forcing the South to move to a more industrialized economy. 
This 1948 Dixiecrat candidate for President was an example of a "boll weevil" politician. This man, who gave the longest filibuster ever against the Civil Rights Act, represented South Carolina in the Senate until his death at age 100 in 2003. 
The namesake of this 1940 act was a Virginia politician who used the boll weevil as a symbol. Yates v. United States narrowed the power of this act, which required alien registration and set penalties for "subversive activities." 
cotton
Strom Thurmond [or James Strom Thurmond]
Smith Act
These geographic features were included within the walls erected by King Servius Tullius. For 10 points each: 
Identify these seven geographic features which included the Mons Aventinus and Mons Capitolinus.
Roman emperors tended to live on this hill, which was the location of Nero's Golden House and the Domus Tiberiana.
This emperor began construction on the Domus Augustana on the Palantine Hill. This final member of the Flavian Dynasty's fifteen-year reign ended when he was stabbed to death by a slave named Stephanus. 
hills of Rome [or obvious equivalents; or montes Romae]
Palatine Hill [or Mons Palatinus]
Domitian [or Titus Flavius Domitianus]
The largest remains of one of these structures can be found at Chonga Zanbil, which was built by the Elamites. For 10 points each:
Name these terraced religious buildings. A seven-storied example called the Etemenanki, which was dedicated to the god Marduk, got a reference in Herodotus's histories. 
The Etemenanki was located in this city, whose Hanging Gardens were perhaps the most famous example of ancient world landscaping. The Code of Hammurabi was promulgated in this city.
A positional number system representing numbers in this way was used by Babylonian astronomers and mathematicians. Ptolemy's Almagest includes a "Table of Chords" whose numbers are written in this manner
ziggurats [prompt on step pyramids]
Babylon
base-60 number system [or sexagesimal system]
Identify the following about the Count-Duke of Olivares, for 10 points each.
Olivares was a minister of this Spanish king, for whom he built the Buen Retiro palace. The next Spanish monarch with the same name as this king sparked a war by succeeding the feeble-minded Charles II.
 J. H. Elliott wrote a dual biography of Olivares and this French minister, nicknamed "The Red Eminence." This cardinal held great power during the reign of Louis XIII.
Olivares fell from power following a revolt in this region of Spain that includes the cities of Girona and Barcelona. This region achieved a short-lived independence as a republic under the Esquerra Party in 1931.
Philip IV of Spain [or Felipe IV of Spain or Philip III of Portugal or Philip III of Aragon; do not accept or prompt on just "Philip III" or "Philip V"; prompt on Philip; prompt on Felipe]
Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand-Jean du Plessis, cardinal et duc de Richelieu]
Catalonia [or Cataluna or Catalunya]
These associations were known as germanies in Valencia, where they revolted in 1519. For 10 points each:
Name these associations of merchants, craftsmen, or artisans who each monopolized a single trade in a given town. Many of them consist of master craftsmen and their many apprentices.
People in this intermediate stage between apprentice and master spent several years traveling from town to town gaining experience, culminating in a "masterpiece" to be presented to the guild.
The Marx brothers guild arose in 16th century Germany for enthusiasts for this recreational activity, whose Dardi school arose in Bologna. Its two main traditions are the "classical" and the "academic."
guilds
 journeymen [or journeyman]
fencing [accept word forms; prompt on swordsmanship or related answers]
Answer these questions about pre-modern anti-Semitism, for 10 points each.
Medieval communities often accused Jews of spreading the Black Death by poisoning these communal sources of water.
Like Cologne and Strasbourg, this city's Jews were exterminated in 1349 after accusations that they started the Black Death by poisoning wells. Gutenberg's print shop was in this city.
In eastern Europe, Jews were confined largely to these autonomous villages within the Pale of Settlement, which were often beset by pogroms.
wells
Mainz
shtetls [do not accept "ghettoes"]
In 1881, Prince Charles of this dynasty ascended to the throne of Romania and became King Carol I. For 10 points each:
Identify this dynasty, named for a castle in Swabia, the ruling house first of Brandenburg-Prussia, then of imperial Germany until 1918.
Two kaisers of the Hohenzollern house were advised by this "Iron Chancellor," who initiated the Kulturkampf against the Catholic Church.
Napoleon III denied a Hohenzollern prince with this name the chance to ascend to the Spanish throne, precipitating the Franco-Prussian War. A man with this name was crowned king of a new country after an 1830 revolution that broke out at an opera performance.
Hohenzollern dynasty [or House of Hohenzollern; or Hohenzollern-Hechingen; or HohenzollernHaigerloch; or Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen
Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg]
Leopold
Late in his career, this man upheld academic freedom in his decision in Sweezy v. New Hampshire, and controversially turned down Ruth Bader Ginsburg for a clerkship due to her gender. For 10 points each:
Name this adviser to Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a Supreme Court justice from New York City famed for his advocacy of judicial restraint.
Frankfurter was a co-founder of American Civil Liberties Union, whose other founders included this woman, who founded Hull House with Ellen Gates Starr.
Frankfurter issued a 62-page concurring dissent declaring that "Courts ought not to enter this political thicket" in this 1962 decision, which held that the redistricting of state legislative districts was justiciable by federal courts, thus allowing decisions like Reynolds v. Sims. 
Felix Frankfurter
Jane Addams
Baker v. Carr [or Carr v. Baker
Name some things about oppressive redistricting methods, for 10 points each.
This term for adjusting district boundaries to establish a particular group's political advantage was first coined in the Boston Gazette in reaction to redistricting laws enacted under a namesake Massachusetts governor.
This racist tactic shuffles low-income, low-education minorities into the same district as high-income, higheducation whites to give an illusion of diversity. This technique is contrasted with packing and cracking.
Gerrymandering is most effective in political systems that use this type of voting in which the individual with the most votes wins. This form of plurality voting often leads to a two party system.
gerrymandering
stacking
first past the post
This man was a driving force behind the Lucknow Pact, which helped unify the Indian National Congress with this man's Muslim League. For 10 points each:
Name this prominent leader in the All-India Home Rule League, who resigned from the Indian National Congress because he believed that satyagraha would never work.
Jinnah was a founding father of this country, whose eastern portion became Bangladesh in a civil war of the early 1970s.
In 1930, this member of the Muslim League outlined his vision for a Muslim state carved out of British India in an address at Allahabad. Earlier, he wrote the poems in The Secrets of the Self and "The Complaint" in Persian and Urdu, respectively.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah
Islamic Republic of Pakistan [or Islami Jumhuriyah-i Pakistan]
Muhammad Iqbal
The majority opinion in this case upheld the doctrine of separate spheres, arguing that the "two sexes differ ... in the capacity to maintain the struggle for subsistence." For 10 points each:
Identify this 1908 Supreme Court case where the court ruled that a West Coast state could restrict the working hours of women.
This "People's Justice" and namesake of a Massachusetts university issued his namesake brief in Muller v. Oregon. This man was the first Jew appointed to the Supreme Court.
Roscoe Pound lauded Brandeis for accomplishing "nothing less but adding a chapter to our law" by writing an influential Harvard Law Review article about this concept.
Muller v. Oregon [or Oregon v. Muller]
Louis Brandeis [or Louis Dembitz Brandeis]
the right to privacy [prompt on privacy]
This man's father was nicknamed "the man who brought the mail to Chile" and left this man his large estate in Concepcion after waffling over whether or not to recognize him. For 10 points each:
Name this illegitimate son who ruled Chile as Supreme Director starting in 1817, after securing that country's independence with Jose de San Martin.
The Spanish empire used this term for Europeans born in the New World with no more than one-eighth Indian blood, such as O'Higgins' Irish father. This term also denotes languages which develop a consistent grammar after blending multiple existing languages, such as the French-derived one of Haiti.
Bernardo O'Higgins joined with Jose de San Martin to form the Army of the Andes, which defeated Spanish forces at this February 12, 1817 battle. After this battle, the victors took Chile's capital, Santiago.
Bernardo O'Higgins [or Bernardo Riquelme]
creole [or criollo]
Battle of Chacabuco
This party signed the Matignon Accords, mandating two weeks of paid annual leave for all workers, and induced auto-makers to develop better cars to compete with German manufacturers by sponsoring the "Million Franc Race." For 10 points each:
Name this alliance of various left-wing parties that controlled France from 1936 to 38 during the premiership of Leon Blum.
Blum's appointment to the post of French Prime Minister initiated a surge of this sentiment among his Catholic opponents. A similar wave of this racist sentiment had bloomed in France during the Dreyfus Affair.
The Popular Front initiated the failed Blum-Viollette proposal to grant citizenship to natives of this country, who were economically dominated by the colons and by the pied-noirs.
Popular Front [or Front populaire]
anti-Semitism [accept word forms]
Algeria [or al-Jazair; or People's Democratic Republic of Algeria; or Tagduda Tadzayrit Tugduyant Tagherfant]
The "bench" form of these things applies not for actual crimes but for failures to pay the fines imposed by the "body" ones. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of writ from the legal system, typically issued by a judge and required by the Fourth Amendment. A fake one of these orders was used by police officers in the arrest that prompted Mapp v. Ohio.
The Fourth Amendment mandates that warrants should only be issued when this two-word condition is met. This condition is met when police have reasonable ground to assume that a crime has been committed.
The "plain view" doctrine holds that police may seize evidence or make arrests when the officer has reasonable suspicion of criminal activity or the presence of contraband such as a weapon during this type of traffic stop, named for a 1968 Supreme Court case. "Stop and frisk" is considered a subtype of this stop.
search warrants [or arrest warrants]
probable cause [do not accept or prompt on "reasonable suspicion"]
Terry stops
In the 1960s, this man's limited economic reforms allowed individual enterprises the flexibility to set their own prices. For 10 points each:
Identify this one-time mechanic who seized power following the downfall of Imre Nagy's government.
Kadar was a Communist leader of this European nation, whose citizens staged a 1956 revolt against the Soviets. The Magyars brought their Finno-Ugric language to this country.
The Hungarian Revolt was sparked in part due to news of this speech given to the 20th Party Congress, wherein Nikita Khrushchev denounced many of the policies of Stalin.
Janos Kadar [or Janos Czermanik or Janos Csermanek]
Hungary [or Republic of Hungary; prompt on Magyarorszag]
"The Secret Speech" [or "On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences"]
This man penned the "Cassandra letter" during his long period of exile, which began when he resigned his governorship to his general Artur Gorgey. For 10 points each:
Name this revolutionary who legislated the April Laws to try to modernize his country. His insurrection in Hungary was put down shortly after the intervention of Josip Jelalcic, the ban of Croatia.
Kossuth led the Hungarian revolution of this year, during which many rebellions occurred across Europe.
The Hungarian Revolution formally ended with the surrender at Vilagos, which was forced by a Russian army commanded by this tsar. His troops had also quelled the 1830-31 November Uprising in Poland.
Lajos Kossuth [or Lajos Kossuth de Udvard et Kossuthfalva]
1848
Nicholas I [or Nikolai I; prompt on Nicholas; prompt on Nikolai]
Charles Sumner called this act "in every respect a swindle" in a speech for which he was nearly caned to death by Preston Brooks. For 10 points each:
Name this 1854 act that overturned the Missouri Compromise by allowing settlers in the two namesake newlycreated territories to determine through popular sovereignty whether or not slavery would be allowed.
During the speech, Sumner likened this South Carolinian co-author of the Kansas-Nebraska Act and cousin of Preston Brooks to Don Quixote, and mercilessly mocked his stroke-induced speech impediment.
The Kansas-Nebraska Act paved the way for these pro-slavery activists to cross into Kansas Territory and "influence" elections by violence and intimidation.
Kansas-Nebraska Act
Andrew Butler [or Andrew Pickens Butler]
border ruffians
In 1987, Miguel de la Madrid reorganized his country's security forces in order to better combat the smuggling of these things through Mexico. For 10 points each:
Identify this broad class of illegal goods. Mexico's former President, Felipe Calderon, also tried to stymie their trade by going after cartels such as Las Zetas.
This leader of the Sinaloa Cartel was arrested in 1993 following the assassination of Cardinal Juan Jesus Posadas Ocampo. He escaped from prison but was arrested again in 2014.
Calderon succeeded this Mexican president, the first man in 71 years to rule without being a member of the PRI. After succeeding Ernesto Zedillo in 2000, this man amended the Constitution to provide more rights for indigenous peoples.
illegal drugs [or narcotics]
El Chapo Guzman [or El Chapo Guzman; or JoaquÃ­n Archivaldo GuzmÃ¡n Lora]
Vicente Fox Quesada
After World War II, the Morgan Line split this city's surrounding region into Zone A and Zone B. For 10 points each:
Name this port city on the Istrian Peninsula that became a "Free Territory" in 1947 to provide a buffer between Yugoslavia and Italy.
In a 1946 speech in Missouri, Winston Churchill described this imaginary structure that stretched from "Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic".
The Iron Curtain didn't actually make it to Trieste, since Josip Tito of Yugoslavia broke with Stalin and helped found this organization in 1961. India, Egypt, and Ghana were among the members of this group, which was made up of countries not part of the Western and Eastern blocs.
Trieste
Iron Curtain
Non-Aligned Movement [or NAM]
This group split into "Conscience" and "Cotton" factions over the issue of slavery. For 10 points each:
Name this American political party led by Henry Clay in opposition to the Democratic Party led by Andrew Jackson. Its successful candidates include William Henry Harrison and Zachary Taylor.
In the 1830s, the Whigs and Henry Clay in particular pushed this threefold economic plan, which sought to establish a protective tariff, a national bank, and subsidies for internal improvements such as roads and canals.
The Whigs formed from a coalition of the Anti-Masonic Party and this earlier anti-Jackson party, which ran Henry Clay as a candidate in the 1832 election, and was formed by men loyal to John Quincy Adams.
Whig Party
American System
National Republican Party
One unsuccessful revolt against this government was supported by the free corps but opposed by workers who staged a general strike in the nation's most populous city. For 10 points each:
Identify this government which survived the Kapp putsch. This government signed the Treaty of Rapallo with the Soviet Union.
In response to the Kapp Putsch, a left-wing uprising occurred in this location, France occupied Darmstadt and Frankfurt. The Allies occupied this entire region in 1923 in order to force Germany to pay its war debt.
Another putsch against the Weimar Republic was the one that Hitler staged in 1923 in one of these large pubs in Munich.
Weimar Republic [prompt on Germany]
Ruhr river valley
beer halls [or bierpalast]
Moderator note: do not read the alternate answers to the first part. Stefan Zweig characterized a commander of this organization named Nicolas Durand de Villegaignon as a "halfpirate, half-scientist." For 10 points each:
Name this military order founded by Italian merchants from Amalfi in 11th century Jerusalem to care for sick and poor pilgrims.
In 1530, the Knights acquired a semi-permanent home on this island, which withstood a devastating Ottoman siege in 1565. This island's capital was named in honor of Jean Parisot de Valette, the grandmaster of the order during the siege.
The Hospitallers were formally recognized as an order by the second pope of this name, who struggled with Henry I of England between 1103 and 1107 in a re-ignition of the Investiture Controversy.
Knights Hospitaller [or the Order of Saint John of Jerusalem or Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem or Sovereign Military and Hospitaller Order of Saint John of Jerusalem, of Rhodes, and of Malta; accept Order of Malta]
Malta
Paschal [or Paschalis]
An influential advisor to this monarch, Cardinal Pedro Gonzalez de Mondoza, was known as the "Third King of Spain." For 10 points each:
Identify this Queen of Castile who united her kingdom with Ferdinand II of Aragon.
Early in her reign, Isabella successfully fought off an invasion of Castile led by a Portuguese king of this name. A "wise" Castilian king of this name sponsored a series of namesake planetary tables and helped make Castilian a literary language.
Early in their reign, Isabella and Ferdinand kicked this last Muslim emirate in Grenada out of Spain. This kingdom was a taifa, or tribute state, after the fall of Cordoba and turned the Alhambra into a palace under Yusuf I.
Isabella I [or Isabella the Catholic; or Isabel la Catolica]
Alfonso [or Alphonso; or Afonso]
Nasrid Kingdom/Emirate/Sultanate
The popularity of these gatherings in the early 20th century was mocked by Noel Coward's play Blithe Spirit. For 10 points each:
Name these meetings at which a medium claimed to bring back the souls of the dead from the afterlife. They were a key component of the Spiritualist movement.
This popular entertainer and escape artist worked to debunk seances after the death of his mother. He died of appendicitis soon after betting a visitor that he could withstand any punch to the abdomen.
This New York religious society, founded by Russian emigre Helena Blavatsky, also popularized seances. Its mishmosh of ideas drawn from ancient religions, Eastern traditions, Freemasonry, and Symbolist poetry was described in books such as Isis Unveiled.
seances
Harry Houdini [or Eric Weiss]
Theosophy [or Theosophical Society]
This battle, and the follow-up offensive on the Aisne River, paved the way for a period known as the "Race to the Sea." For 10 points each:
Name this battle, a defeat for Helmuth von Moltke in which the Sixth Army commanded by General Maunoury was reinforced by 6,000 infantrymen who traveled to the front in taxis.
This rising star in the French army commanded the Ninth Army at the First Marne and was promoted from Commander in Chief of the Allied Forces to Marshal of France for his chief role in halting the Spring Offensive in 1918.
The hostilities between Germany and the Allied Powers were ended by this 1919 treaty, which Foch presciently called an "armistice for twenty years."
First Battle of the Marne
Ferdinand Foch
Treaty of Versailles
Before this man's execution, he supposedly uttered a curse against the King of France stating that "you will not live to see the end of this year, and Heaven's retribution will strike down your accomplices and destroy your posterity". For 10 points each:
Identify this final head of a knightly order accused by Philip the Fair of committing crimes like "infecting the purity of the air" and "torturing Christ a second time.".
Jacques de Molay was the final leader of this order of crusading knights, which has become the subject of many legends since its destruction. This group was founded by Hugues de Payens in the Holy Land in the 1120s.
The Templars received papal approval by Omne Datum Optimum, which was issued by a pope of this name. The third pope of this name organized the Albigensian Crusade and the Fourth Crusade.
Jacques de Molay [prompt on Jacques]
Knights Templar [or Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon or Poor Knights of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon]
Innocent [or Innocent II; or Innocent III; or Innocentius]
A one-time kabaka or king of this modern-day nation was called "King Freddie" by British newspapers and was exiled for two years until he returned as a constitutional monarch. For 10 points each:
Identify this country where Mutesa II held power after it gained independence. This country underwent a "Move to the Left" under Milton Obote.
Milton Obote was himself overthrown this by this dictator, who had led a military force to expel Mutesa II. This man, who allowed Palestinian hijackers to land at Entebbe, took many fanciful titles such as "Last King of Scotland" while ruling during the 1970s.
When Idi Amin expelled all Asians from Uganda in 1972, most of them were of this ethnicity of Mohandas Gandhi. They speak a namesake language in India's westernmost state.
Republic of Uganda
Idi Amin [or Idi Amin Dada Oumee]
Gujarathi [or Gujarati]
This people's leader Asparukh led them south to settle in Moesia and established their first empire at Pliska. For 10 points each:
Name this nomadic people that also formed a state on the Volga River that was conquered by the Mongols. A later state of these people was ruled by the Asen dynasty.
The Bulgars warred with this empire to the south, one of whose rulers, Basil II, was called the "Bulgar-slayer" after subjugating them at the Battle of Kleidion.
Bulgaria was Christianized by Boris I, who patronized the disciples of this creator of the Glagolitic script. This saint and his brother Methodius created that script to proselytize to the Slavs in Moravia.
Bulgars [or Bulgarians]
Byzantine Empire [or Eastern Roman Empire]
Saint Cyril
At one meeting, this faction's views were defended by their spokesman Thomas Rainsborough. For 10 points each:
Name this political movement prominently supported by John Lilburne, which published the Agreement of the People. They weren't as extreme as the Diggers, whose demands for equality among male Englishmen went even further.
 The Agreement of the People was rejected by the New Model Army in favor of the more conservative Heads of Proposals at this series of debates in 1647.
The New Model Army fought for this legislative body, and against the king, in the English Civil War.
Levellers
Putney Debates
English Parliament
The "second wave" of this movement included anti-pornography advocates Andrea Dworkin and Catherine MacKinnon, who described the world power structure as a "patriarchy". For 10 points each:
Name this movement for greater political, economic, and social equality, whose pioneers included Mary Wollstonecraft.
This conservative woman fought against feminist efforts for an Equal Rights Amendment to the US Constitution. Her son Andrew runs Conservapedia.
This black author of Sisters of Yam, who used a Sojourner Truth quote to title her book Ain't I a Woman, writes about the intersection of black and third-world identities with feminism using an uncapitalized pen name.
feminism [or women's rights movement; or women's liberation movement]
Phyllis Schlafly
bell hooks [or Gloria Jean Watkins]
The News of the World ran an editorial claiming that this "evil star" deliberately French kissed his Dynasty co-star Linda Evans in order to give her his disease. For 10 points each:
Identify this Hollywood star whose 1985 death helped draw attention to the AIDS epidemic.
Hudson managed to avoid this fate of many other Hollywood professionals at the height of the Red Scare. This term refers to bans on employing people with suspected ties to Communism.
Dalton Trumbo was among a set of this many Hollywood screenwriters who were blacklisted for refusing to answer questions at a HUAC hearing. The Constitutional amendment of this number reserves powers not delegated by the Constitution to the states or the people.
Rock Hudson [or Roy Harold Scheer, Jr.; or Roy Harold Fitzgerald]
blacklisting [or being put on the Hollywood Blacklist]
ten [or Hollywood Ten; or Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution]
In the Exclusion Crisis, Parliament tried to remove this king's brother from the lines of succession due to his Catholicism. For 10 points each:
Name this king of England who came to power in 1660 and presided over the Restoration of the English monarchy.
The Exclusion Crisis unfolded after the Anglican clergyman Titus Oates lied about this conspiracy by claiming that Catholics were planning to kill Charles. This plot gained little traction until Edmund Godfrey, the magistrate to whom Oates gave his "evidence," was found murdered.
This early Whig politician arrested five Catholic Lords pinpointed by Oates as being in on the plot, and cooked up the plan to exclude Charles's brother James. He also furthered the philosophical career of his secretary, John Locke.
Charles II [or the Merry Monarch; prompt on Charles]
Popish Plot
Anthony Ashley Cooper [or Anthony Ashley Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury; or Sir Anthony Ashley Cooper, 2nd Baronet; or The Lord Ashley]
During his period of imprisonment this party derisively nicknamed his founder "the Absent One," or el Ausente. For 10 points each:
Name this spectrum of movements and political parties founded by Jose Antonio Primo de Rivera, and named for an ancient military formation.
Francisco Franco rallied Falangist support in this European war that took place from 1936 to 1939.
The Falangists had a very poor showing at the 1936 election, which was won by the Popular Front helmed by this Prime Minister, who resigned his office in 1939 when he was about to lose the war, and died in exile in France.
Falange [or Falange Espanola (es-PAN-yola) de la JONS; or FE de las JONS; accept word forms, such as Falangists]
Spanish Civil War [or Guerra civil espanola]
Manuel AzaÃ±a (ah-ZAN-ya) [or Manuel AzaÃ±a Diaz]
It wasn't in England, but participants in the time period of this name could take advantage of Free Stores run by a group known as the Diggers. For 10 points each:
Identify this name given to a period of 1967 that kicked off with the Monterey Pop Festival.
The Summer of Love took place in and around this American city's Haight-Ashbury neighborhood. In the 70s, Harvey Milk became the first openly gay man elected to a public office in this city.
At the earlier Human Be-In in San Francisco, this man coined the phrase, "turn on, tune in, drop out". This man had previously been fired from Harvard along with Richard Alpert for his experiments with LSD and other psychedelic drugs.
Summer of Love
San Francisco
Timothy Leary
At least three of this woman's six daughters were born at Amarna. For 10 points each:
Name this queen depicted on a bust in which she wears a tall blue hat. Her husband introduced a monotheistic faith based around the sun disk.
Nefertiti was the wife of this Pharaoh, who took a name dedicating himself to his singular sun god. His son Tutankhamun abandoned his new capital a few years after his death.
Records of the 18th dynasty show a mysterious pharaoh of this name ruling for about a year between Akhenaten and Tutankhamun. Some scholars believe references to this man are actually coded references to Nefertiti.
Nefertiti [or Neferneferuaten-Nefertiti]
Akhenaten [or Amenhotep IV; or Ikhnaton]
Smenkhkare
This man was dismissed from his post following the rise of Emile Ollivier, but he had already supervised the building of Garnier's Opera and a host of other buildings. For 10 points each:
Identify this man fond of wide boulevards who tore down much of medieval Paris to reform it into a more modern city.
Baron Haussmann remade Paris during the reign of this French Emperor. He abdicated following the Battle of Sedan in the Franco-Prussian War.
After surviving an assassination attempt from Felice Orsini, Napoleon III decided "to do something for Italy". One such act was winning this 1859 battle against the Austrians which inspired Henri Durant to found the International Red Cross.
Baron Haussmann [or George-Eugene Haussmann]
Napoleon III [or Louis Napoleon or Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte]
Battle of Solferino
Cryptographer Etienne Bazieres cracked the "Great Cipher" and deduced that this man was a general named Viven de Bulonde who ordered a dishonorable retreat from the Siege of Cuneo. For 10 points each:
Name this mysterious prisoner who died in the Bastille in 1703.
Voltaire advanced the unlikely theory that the man in the iron mask was the illegitimate older brother of this long-reigning French king, who moved the French court from Paris to Versailles.
Another candidate, Eustache Dauger, escaped punishment for his role in this scandal, in which numerous aristocrats, including Louis's mistress Madame de Montaspan, were found to have solicited fortune tellers for black masses, murder weapons, and witchcraft.
the man in the iron mask [or l'homme au masque de fer]
Louis XIV [or Louis le Grand; or Louis the Great; or the Sun King; or le Roi-Soleil; prompt on Louis]
Affair of the Poisons [or L'affaire des poisons]
At this institution, Peter the Venerable presided over the first-ever translation into Latin of the Qur'an. For 10 points each:
Name this institution, founded by William I, Duke of Aquitaine. It lends its name to a series of "reforms" promulgated by Odo, emphasizing art, a mendicant life, and charity towards the poor.
Cluny was perhaps the foremost example of these institutions consisting of cloisters, libraries, and living quarters for monks. These places played a crucial role in preserving the classics and promoting learning during the Middle Ages.
The Abbey of Cluny adhered very strictly to the "rule" developed by this sixth century CE saint from Nursia, who informed the Ostrogothic king Totila that his sword-bearer was an impostor.
Cluny Abbey [or Clugny]
monasteries [or monastery; or priories; or friaries; or convents]
Saint Benedict [or Benedict of Nursia]
In the town of Saint Raphael, this man's troops allegedly massacred Spanish forces that were exiting church following a mass. For 10 points each:
Name this military leader. After this man died a prisoner in France in 1803, his deputy and eventual successor Jean-Jacques Dessalines enforced a policy of militarized agriculture which forced former slaves to go back to their plantations.
Toussaint L'Ouverture's incredibly bloody rebellion helped create this modern-day country by overthrowing the slave plantation regime known as Saint-Domingue. A 2010 earthquake devastated this Caribbean nation.
Napoleon's brother-in-law, Charles Leclerc, died in this manner after he was sent to reconquer SaintDomingue. This fate also befell Leclerc's successor, General Rochambeau, and perhaps 50,000 other French troops.
Toussaint L'Ouverture [or Toussaint L'Ouverture]
Republic of Haiti
he died of yellow fever [prompt on dying of illness or dying of disease]
Three divisions of this group, nicknamed "Black Flames," "Black Feathers," and "God Wills It," were sent to fight for the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this volunteer paramilitary group, disbanded in 1943, which was divided into maniples, cohorts, and legions, just like the Roman army.
The Blackshirts swore fealty to this dictator, who they called Il Duce. This dictator forged the Pact of Steel with Adolf Hitler.
The Blackshirts carried out this 1922 insurrection that met little resistance because Victor Emmanuel III refused to approve Luigi Facta's request for a state of siege.
Blackshirts [or Milizia Volontaria per la Sicurezza Nazionale; or MVSN; or camicie nere; or CCNN; or squadristi]
Benito Mussolini [or Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini]
March on Rome [or Marcia su Roma]
Dan Gordon's documentary The Game of Their Lives chronicled the travails of this country's soccer team at the 1966 World Cup. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose navy seized the USS Pueblo in 1968.
North Korea's southern border is defined by this region which mostly runs along the 38th parallel. The truce village of Panmunjom is located within this region.
In 1976, US servicemen Arthur Bonifas and Mark Barett were killed in this fashion by North Korean soldiers in the DMZ after trying to trim a poplar tree blocking their view.
North Korea [or Democratic People's Republic of Korea; or DPRK]
demilitarized zone [or DMZ]
they were beaten to death with an axe [or they were axe murdered; or they were beaten to death with a golf club; or killed with a hatchet; or Axe Murder Incident]
This man was angered by the emperor's plans to establish the colony of Aelia in Jerusalem. For 10 points each:
Identify this Jew who led a namesake revolt against the Romans. He was killed in 135 CE while fighting at Bethar.
Bar Cochba's revolt was put down by Julius Severus under orders of this Roman Emperor. Like his successor Antoninus Pius, this man ordered a namesake wall to be erected in northern Britain.
Hadrian divided this territory into three Roman provinces. This territory in present-day Romania was conquered by Trajan, which is commemorated in Trajan's Column.
Bar Cochba [or Bar Kokhba; or Bar Koziba; or Bar Kokhba; or Simeon bar Kochba; or Simeon bar Kosba; or Simeon bar Koseba; or Simon Bar Cochba]
Hadrian [or Adrian or Caesar Traianus Hadrianus Augustus; or Publius Aelius Hadrianus]
Dacia
A notorious response to this person's most famous letter stated, "I cannot but laugh Â… we know better than to repeal our masculine systems." For 10 points each:
Identify this political thinker who asked that those gathered in Philadelphia "remember the ladies."
John Adams successfully lobbied to get Thomas Jefferson the role of writing this document, which pointedly did not include women in its proclamation that "all men are created equal."
With her sister, Martha Wright, and other suffragists, this woman helped organized the Seneca Falls Convention, which put forth a Declaration of Sentiments that declared "all men and women are created equal." She was the author of "Sermon to the Medical Students" and a co-founder of Swarthmore College.
Abigail Adams [or Abigail Smith; prompt on Adams; prompt on Smith]
The Declaration of Independence
Lucretia Coffin Mott [or Lucretia Coffin]
Three divisions of this group, nicknamed "Black Flames," "Black Feathers," and "God Wills It," were sent to fight for the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this volunteer paramilitary group, disbanded in 1943, which was divided into maniples, cohorts, and legions, just like the Roman army.
The Blackshirts swore fealty to this dictator, who they called Il Duce. This dictator forged the Pact of Steel with Adolf Hitler.
The Blackshirts carried out this 1922 insurrection that met little resistance because Victor Emmanuel III refused to approve Luigi Facta's request for a state of siege.
Blackshirts [or Milizia Volontaria per la Sicurezza Nazionale; or MVSN; or camicie nere; or CCNN; or squadristi]
Benito Mussolini [or Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini]
March on Rome [or Marcia su Roma]
Dan Gordon's documentary The Game of Their Lives chronicled the travails of this country's soccer team at the 1966 World Cup. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose navy seized the USS Pueblo in 1968.
North Korea's southern border is defined by this region which mostly runs along the 38th parallel. The truce village of Panmunjom is located within this region.
In 1976, US servicemen Arthur Bonifas and Mark Barett were killed in this fashion by North Korean soldiers in the DMZ after trying to trim a poplar tree blocking their view.
North Korea [or Democratic People's Republic of Korea; or DPRK]
demilitarized zone [or DMZ]
they were beaten to death with an axe [or they were axe murdered; or they were beaten to death with a golf club; or killed with a hatchet; or Axe Murder Incident]
 This man was angered by the emperor's plans to establish the colony of Aelia in Jerusalem. For 10 points each:
Identify this Jew who led a namesake revolt against the Romans. He was killed in 135 CE while fighting at Bethar.
Bar Cochba's revolt was put down by Julius Severus under orders of this Roman Emperor. Like his successor Antoninus Pius, this man ordered a namesake wall to be erected in northern Britain.
Hadrian divided this territory into three Roman provinces. This territory in present-day Romania was conquered by Trajan, which is commemorated in Trajan's Column.
Bar Cochba [or Bar Kokhba; or Bar Koziba; or Bar Kokhba; or Simeon bar Kochba; or Simeon bar Kosba; or Simeon bar Koseba; or Simon Bar Cochba]
Hadrian [or Adrian or Caesar Traianus Hadrianus Augustus; or Publius Aelius Hadrianus]
Dacia
This country's first post-independence capital, Nafplio, preserves the bullet hole in a wall where Ioannis Kapodistrias was shot. For 10 points each:
Name this country. The great powers of Europe had to devise a government for it after helping rebels like Alexander Ypsilantis break it free of Ottoman rule in the 1820s.
Greece eventually installed Otto, a foreign monarch from this German region's house of Wittelsbach. Ludwig II of this region had Neuschwanstein Castle built.
The convention to decide a government for Greece was held in this city in 1832. The treaty ending the Greek War of Independence had been signed here five years prior.
Greece [or Hellas]
Bavaria [or Bayern]
London [or Convention of London of 1832]
During this campaign, a heckler asked, "Why don't you hang Jefferson Davis?" to which the president scandalously replied, "Why don't you hang Thad Stevens and Wendell Phillips?" For 10 points each:
Identify this 1866 campaign to drum up support for moderate candidates in the midterm elections. It didn't work out for the president.
The Swing around the Circle campaign was undertaken by this unpopular president, who was impeached but not convicted by Congress for violating the Tenure of Office Act
Johnson tried to fire this Secretary of War who engineered the elaborate funeral procession of Lincoln's body from Washington, D.C. to his resting place in Illinois.
the Swing around the Circle campaign
Andrew Johnson [prompt on Johnson]
Edwin McMasters Stanton
One of this man's epithets derives from his father's membership in the Order of the Dragon. For 10 points each:
Identify this voivode of Wallachia who led the Night Attack against Mehmed II in 1462. He was captured by Matthias Corvinus of Hungary later that year.
After his death, this body part of Vlad may have been sent to Constantinople, where it was embalmed in honey. This body part was inexpertly removed from Mary, Queen of Scots to cause her death.
Vlad and this younger brother served a stint as hostages at the court of Sultan Murad II. This man's beauty may have made his stay in the Ottoman court more pleasant, and he was made Pasha of Wallachia before his death in 1475.
Vlad III Dracula [or Vlad the Impaler or Vlad Tepes or Vlad Dracula; prompt on Dracula; prompt on Vlad; do not accept or prompt on "Vlad Dracul"]
the head
Radu the Handsome [or Radu III or Radu the Fair or Radu the Beautiful or Radu cel Frumos]
This man's devastation of modern-day Sofia was so bad that eight years later, Roman officials were still unable to enter the city because it reeked of death. For 10 points each:
Identify this "scourge of God" and leader of the Huns.
Attila's only military defeat came at the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains after he laid siege to the Roman town which became this modern-day city. A siege of this city by the Earl of Suffolk was lifted when Charles VII was persuaded to dispatch an army that successfully marched from Chezy to relieve it.
Legend has it that the first pope of this name met with Attila and convinced him not to sack Rome, although the true reason for the city's preservation may have been that it was beset by disease. That pope of this name's namesake Tome was adopted at the Council of Chalcedon.
Attila the Hun
Orleans
Leo I [or Leo the Great; or Saint Leo]
Conspiracy theorists sometimes connect this pope's death with that of Robert Calvi, the chairman of Banco Ambrosiano, who was found hanging from Blackfriars Bridge in London in an apparent suicide. For 10 points each:
Name this pope who died 33 days into his papacy and was succeeded by a pope with the same name. 
Roberto Calvi was a member of Propaganda Due, a covert branch of this organization. This organization has chapters called lodges and uses a square and compass as its symbol.
A year before the Banco Ambrosiano scandal broke, John Paul II was shot and wounded by Mehmet Ali Agca, a member of this Turkish group of fascist terrorists.
John Paul I [or Ioannes Paulus I; or Albino Luciani; prompt on John Paul]
Freemasonry [or the Masons]
Grey Wolves [or Bozkurtlar; or Ulku Ocakları]
Following World War II, this country's border with the Soviet Union was restored to the Curzon Line. For 10 points each:
Identify this country which was jointly invaded by Germany and the Soviet Union in September 1939 following the signing of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.
The Nazi invasion of Poland was followed by this period of inaction, in which Britain and France launched no offensives against the Germans despite having declared war.
The London-based government in exile of Poland severed its diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union after the Germans publicized this massacre of over four thousand Polish officers near Smolensk.
Poland [or Republic of Poland; or Polska]
Phoney War [or Sitzkrieg]
Katyn Forest massacre
 Jerusalem's Old City is home to a quarter named for this country, the first officially Christian nation in the world. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country whose diaspora communities grew after its people were targeted for extermination by the Ottoman Empire in 1915.
An Armenian community developed in this country during the reign of King Alaungpaya of the Konbaung dynasty. This country was first unified by the Pagan kingdom.
The Armenians travelled to Burma from New Julfa, a quarter established for them in Isfahan by Abbas I, the ruler of this dynasty. This Shi'ite Persian dynasty was founded by Ismail I.
Armenia [or Hayastan]
Burma [or Myanmar]
Safavid Dynasty or Empire
In 2006, the Department of the Interior awarded a $2 million grant to help preserve this battlefield's Slaughter Pen Farm. For 10 points each:
Name this costly December 1862 Union loss in which Ambrose Burnside's army failed to dislodge James Longstreet's troops from Marye's Heights.
This winning general at Fredericksburg and commander of the Army of North Virginia refused an offer to fight for the Union after his home state, Virginia, seceded.
Burnside lost due to his delayed crossing of this Virginian river, which served as a natural boundary separating the North from the South in the east. Grant later circumvented it entirely during his Overland Campaign.
Battle of Fredericksburg
Robert E. Lee [or Robert Edward Lee]
Rappahannock River
He began his country's Red Terror by holding up bottles ostensibly filled with the blood of his enemies, and then smashing them on the ground. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who succeeded Tafari Benti as the head of the Derg.
Mengistu and the Derg led this East African country. It had previously been attacked by Italy early in the 44- year reign of Emperor Haile Selassie.
Under Mengistu, Ethiopia faced this sort of crisis from 1984 to 1985, inspiring several entertainers to put together the Live Aid concert.
Mengistu Haile Mariam
 Ethiopia [or People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia ; or PDRE; or Abyssinia; or Ethiopian Empire; or ye-Ityoppya Hezbawi Dimokrasiyawi Ripeblik; or Mangesta Ityoppya]
mass famine [or drought; or crop failure]
This man's mother may have poisoned her second husband, Gaius Crispus Passienus. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman emperor who succeeded Claudius, a self-styled musician who allegedly fiddled during the Great Fire of Rome in 64 CE.
That mother of Nero's was the younger woman with this name. Nero tried to drown her through use of a collapsible boat on the Bay of Naples, then had his soldiers kill her when she escaped.
Agrippina was born in an army camp, owing to the fact that her father was this general. Born Nero Claudius Drusus, he received his best-known agnomen for retrieving the eagles lost at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest but was killed, possibly on the orders of Tiberius, in Syria at age 33.
Nero [or Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus]
Julia Agrippina the Younger
Germanicus Julius Caesar
The most vigorous opponent of this restriction was given a cane by Julius Pratt &amp; Company in recognition of his efforts. For 10 points each:
Identify this Congressional procedure that would automatically table any resolutions that sought to end or modify slavery. Joshua Giddings helped secure its repeal in 1844.
The Gag Rule was most vociferously protested by this former president and son of the nation's second president.
Joshua Giddings once gave a speech condemning the second war of this name for being nothing more than a way to spread slavery. Major campaigns in that second war of this name were led by Thomas Jesup, featured action by the Mosquito Fleet and included the Harney Massacre.
Gag Rule
John Quincy Adams [do not accept or prompt on "John Adams"; prompt on "Adams"]
Second Seminole War
The winning commander at this battle led a charge across the Pinarus River to break the Persian left, then turned his attention on the Greek mercenaries in the center. For 10 points each:
Name this 333 BC battle fought in southern Anatolia, the first time its winning commander personally defeated the army of Darius III.
This son of Philip II and king of Macedon won the Battle of Issus and conquered all the way to northern India before his thirty-third birthday.
After the battle, Alexander was revered for his generous treatment of Sisygambis, who bore this relation to Darius.
Battle of Issus
Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on Alexander]
she was his mother [accept synonyms]
This faction was decisively defeated at the Battle of Montaperti, where legend has it that the knight Bocca degli Abbati betrayed them by chopping off the hand of the Florentine standard bearer. For 10 points each:
Name this political faction, named for the dynasty of the German dukes of Bavaria, that supported the papacy in 12th and 13th century Italian power politics.
The Guelph-Ghibelline rivalry spread to Italy during the reign of this Hohenstaufen Holy Roman Emperor, who was crushed at the Battle of Legnano by the Lombard League. He drowned by attempting to ford a river in full battle armor while heading toward the Third Crusade.
Perhaps the silliest episode in the Guelph-Ghibelline conflict was the theft of this mundane object from Bologna by soldiers from Modena. Two thousand men died at the ensuing Battle of Zappolino over this object.
Guelphs [or Welfs or Guelfs]
Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I; or Friedrich Barbarossa; or Friedrich I; prompt on Frederick; prompt on Friedrich]
an oaken bucket
The Grand Lodge of Freemasons in New York established an award named for this man. For 10 points each:
Name this sixth Governor of New York whose namesake "folly" was a construction project completed in 1825. He lost the presidential election of 1812.
Clinton was a major backer of the project to build this artificial waterway running from Albany to Buffalo, connecting the Atlantic with the Great Lakes.
The first leg of the Erie Canal ran from Rome, New York, to this New York city, the county seat of Oneida County. A stopover city between Albany and Syracuse, it was known as "Sin City" during the 20th century because of massive corruption.
DeWitt Clinton [prompt on Clinton]
Erie Canal
Utica
This man had to drop out of Marshall University due to economic hardship, and was already in the Senate before he finished his law degree. For 10 points each:
Identify this long-serving West Virginian senator who once gave a 14-hour speech to filibuster the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
Byrd was elected to Congress in 1952 despite evidence coming out that he had been a member of this racist organization and wrote an admiring letter to one if its grand wizards.
Byrd served on this powerful committee starting with his first year in the Senate. This committee controls drafting bills that are funded by discretionary spending.
Robert Carlyle Byrd [or Cornelius Calvin Sale, Jr.]
Ku Klux Klan [or KKK]
Senate Committee on Appropriations [or Appropriations Committee]
This man underwent an adult circumcision in order to make hajj despite being non-Muslim, centuries after fellow European Ludovico di Varthema made that journey. For 10 points each:
Name this man. He led a tumultuous expedition to the large lakes of southern Africa with John Hanning Speke.
Richard Burton produced an often-erotic translation of this collection, whose sub-tales such as the City of Brass and the seven voyages of Sinbad the Sailor are relayed by Scheherezade to postpone her execution. 
After returning from his expedition with Speke, Burton set out to explore this sect, which he chronicled in City of the Saints. An "Extermination Order" was issued against members of this faith during a war that included the Battle of Crooked River.
Sir Richard Francis Burton
Arabian Nights [or A Thousand and One Arabian Nights; or The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night; or Alf layla wa layla]
Mormonism [or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints; or LDS Church; prompt on "Christians"]
Plutarch reports that this man struck coins made of red-hot iron cooled in vinegar, instead of using the typical gold and silver, to reduce greed and dependence on money. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary lawgiver who established the Great Rhetra constitution, outlined the function of the five ephors, and called for a council of twenty-eight men known as the gerousia to wield equal power to the two royal houses.
Lycurgus reformed this militaristic Greek city-state, whose citizens were supported by a vast underclass of slaves called helots.
Lycurgus also developed this system that educated and gave military training to Spartan male youths until they turned 20. Graduates of this system were enrolled in an anti-helot secret-police known as the krypteia.
Lycurgus
Sparta [or Lacedaemon]
agoge
An early form of this activity was banned by Harvard and Yale in 1860 for safety reasons, though in the year 1904 it still killed 18 students nationwide. For 10 points each:
Identify this activity. Participants in early forms of this activity grouped in violent formations like the flying wedge.
This president organized a conference on football safety in 1905 after one of his sons broke his nose playing football at Harvard. After returning from safari, this man ran on the Bull Moose ticket in 1912.
This newly appointed Secretary of State under Theodor Roosevelt was at the meeting with college football leaders. This Nobel Prize winner helped secure Japanese agreement for the Open Door Policy in China.
American football
Theodore Roosevelt [or TR or Teddy Roosevelt]
Elihu Root
Answer the following about processes used to produce red-colored dyes and pigments in the early modern world, for 10 points each.
This plant's trunk was shredded into red dust or powder to produce a reddish-orange dye from the 15th century on, after its discovery in Pernambuco.
In the 17th century, this city's Rasphuis prison held a monopoly on producing brazilwood dye, forcing convicts to shred it with saws. The concentric semicircular canals of this European city has a waterfront on a bay called the IJ, spelled "I-J".
Another red dye came from the cochineal, a member of this phylogenetic class. Thomas Hunt Morgan first studied gene linkage in Drosophila melanogaster, another member of this class.
brazilwood [or pau-Brasil]
Amsterdam
Insecta [or insects; do not accept or prompt on "Arthropoda"]
Answer the following about the reign of Spanish king Charles I, for 10 points each:
In 1519 Charles I became the ruler of both the Spanish Empire and this other European empire, where he was known as Charles V.
At this 1525 battle in northern Italy, Charles' forces recaptured Milan and took Francis I of France as prisoner.
After Charles was elected Holy Roman Emperor, the Comuneros rebellion in Spain tried to overthrow him in favor of this woman, his mother, who was confined for her alleged mental illness after the revolt was put down.
Holy Roman Empire
Battle of Pavia
Joanna the Mad [or Joanna of Castile]
A rare illustration of a Bacchic initiation rite is found in the Villa of the Mysteries near this site. For 10 points each:
Name this city which, like its neighbors Herculaneum and Stabiae, was destroyed by a volcano in AD 79, preserving much of the Roman art within.
Large sections of the Villa of the Mysteries were painted with this very expensive red pigment, which was often mixed with less expensive pigments to prevent blackening.
The House of the Faun at Pompeii contained an artwork of this type, made with tesserae, which depicted Alexander battling Darius at Issus. The Hagia Sophia contained many portraits of royalty in this form, which were plastered over by the Ottomans.
Pompeii
vermillion [or cinnabar]
mosaics
Some of the participants in this revolt were upset that Catholic priests had destroyed their kivas, or ceremonial pits. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1680 rebellion led by a man named PopÃ© (po-PAY) in modern day New Mexico.
The Pueblo Revolt successfully thwarted this European country's colonization plans for twelve years. Padres from this country founded missions in modern-day California in the 18th century.
This Spanish Franciscan missionary once walked 200 miles from Veracruz to Mexico City and founded a series of missions in California including San Carlos Borromeo and the San Diego Mission.
Pueblo Revolt [or Pueblo Rebellion or Pueblo Uprising]
Spain [or Kingdom of Spain]
Junipero Serra
Gregory Peck narrated a television ad in the run-up to this event, the subject of a brief prepared by Joe Biden. For 10 points each:
Name this 1987 event in which the Senate rejected the appointment of a Reagan-favored judge to the position of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. This event popularized a verb that describes blocking a political appointee.
Reagan nominated Bork to replace this Alabama justice, the swing vote in Bowers v. Hardwick and a dissenter in the death penalty case Furman v. Georgia, who drafted a namesake "memorandum" urging corporations to involve themselves in lobbying.
After the girlfriend of one of his aides died from a coat-hanger abortion, Powell sided with the majority in this 1973 decision legalizing abortion, which Bork wanted to reverse.
Robert Heron Bork confirmation hearings [or Bork nomination; or Bork hearings; or Bork before the Senate; prompt on Robert Bork's name alone]
Lewis F. Powell [or Lewis Franklin Powell, Jr.]
Roe v. Wade
This man was captured as a youth by imperial forces and castrated when he went by the name of Ma Sanbao. For 10 points each:
Name this Muslim eunuch. He captured King Alagonakkara of Sri Lanka and brought him back to China as a prisoner during one of the seven voyages of his Treasure Fleet.
This emperor commissioned the voyages of Zheng He. He had the Temple of Heaven built after reestablishing his capital at Beijing and commissioned a pre-Kangxi encyclopedia which was completed in 1408.
The Yongle Emperor ruled during this Chinese dynasty, which lasted from the fall of the Yuan until 1644.
Zheng He [or Cheng Ho; or Ma He]
Yongle Emperor [or Yung-lo; or Ming Chengzu; or Wendi; or Zhu Di]
Ming dynasty
This man was enraged that Johann de Kalb, a junior to him in the French army, was promoted over him. For 10 points each:
Identify this inspector general in the Continental Army who was wounded in a duel with John Cadwalader after masterminding a failed plot to install Horatio Gates as commander in chief.
The Conway Cabal sought to replace this Continental general with Gates. He was elected president in 1789.
Conway had fought at this indecisive battle on September 11, 1777 near Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, where General Howe gained control of the battlefield but failed to cut off Washington's troops.
Thomas Conway
George Washington
Battle of Brandywine
Shortly after unseating the incumbent, this man traveled to Germany to represent Britain at the Potsdam conference. For 10 points each:
Name this Prime Minister who followed many recommendations of the Beveridge report in founding the National Health Service.
Attlee belonged to this political party, which eclipsed the Liberals in the early 20th century to become the main opposition of the Conservatives.
Attlee retained and expanded this economic policy for five full years after World War II, in part due to the harshness of the winter which ended in 1947. Citizens carried books of "coupons" to adhere to this policy.
Clement Attlee
Labour Party
rationing of supplies [or bread rationing; or food rationing; or gasoline rationing; accept any descriptive answer indicating that consumers had strict centralized limits on how much they could consume; prompt on "quotas" or similar answers]
This woman penned the anti-Catholic Lamentations of a Sinner, as well as the devotional Prayers and Meditations, the first book in English to be published by a woman using her own name. For 10 points each:
Name this queen who convinced her third husband to pass the Third Succession Act of 1543, restoring his daughters Mary and Elizabeth to the line of succession. Unlike her five predecessors, she outlived him.
Katherine Parr was the final wife of this fat Tudor English king.
Parr's previous husband John Neville had been implicated in this 1536 protest in Yorkshire, led by the lawyer Robert Aske. This event was followed the next year by the more violent Bigod's rebellion.
Katherine Parr [or Catherine Parr; or Kateryn Parr; or Katheryne Parr; or Kathrine Parr]
Henry VIII [prompt on Henry]
Pilgrimage of Grace
The thirteenth major Rock Edict recounts a war in this region, in which the battle deaths of over 250,000 people supposedly made the entire Daya river run red with blood. For 10 points each:
Name this region that fought fiercely for its freedom and lost in a bloody war, which inspired a ruler's new belief in "conquest by Dharma."
This ruler, who put forth the Rock Edicts and Pillar Edicts across the Mauryan empire, converted to a largely pacifist Buddhism after seeing the suffering caused by the conquest of Kalinga.
Ashoka sent two of his kids on a religion mission to King Tissa on this island, where the kingdom of Kandy later claimed to preserve a tooth of the Buddha. The Jaffna kingdom ruled it during the early middle ages.
Kalinga
Ashoka the Great [or Asoka; or Ashok]
Sri Lanka [or Ceylon]
This ruler was once a concubine of Emperor Taizong and moved the capital to Luoyang. For 10 points each:
Identify this woman who assumed the title of empress of China after emperor Gaozong died of a stroke. She died in 705 CE.
Empress Wu proclaimed herself ruler of a new iteration of this dynasty. This dynasty was founded by a namesake duke who created the fengjian feudal system, and included the Spring and Autumn Period.
The original Zhou dynasty broke down into a period given this designation, in which the Qin emerged supreme among a set of seven rival powers. In Japan, the chaotic sengoku period is sometimes referred to with this two-word designation.
Empress Wu [or Wu Zetian; or Wu Tse-t'ien; or Wu Zhao; or Wu Chao]
Zhou Dynasty [or Chou Dynasty]
Warring States period [or Zhanguo shidai]
The first leader of this organization spent his final years engaged in naval piracy after he was deposed from his last remaining stronghold in Gotland. For 10 points each:
Identify this organization formed by Queen Margaret I in 1397 on behalf of the young Eric of Pomerania.
The Kalmar Union ended during the reign of the first Swedish king of this name. The second Swedish king of this name was called "The Lion of the North" and led his country into the Thirty Years War.
The lords of this region in northern Germany invited the Victual Brothers to prey on Kalmar ships during a war with Eric of Pomerania. This region, along with an alphabetically later region to its south, was the subject of a frequent "question" over who controlled it during the 19th century.
Kalmar Union [or Union of Kalmar]
Gustav [or Gustavus or Gustavus Augustus or Gustav Vasa]
Holstein [prompt on Schleswig-Holstein]
A group of communist rebels in this country formed the Hukbalahap during World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this modern-day country where the Sakdal Uprising and the Moro Crater Massacre took place.
The Moro Crater Massacre was carried out by troops from this country under the command of General Leonard Wood. This country took control of the Philippines from the Spanish after winning the battle of Manila Bay.
This revolutionary became the first president of the Philippine Republic through the Malolos Constitution, but soon clashed with American forces. He was captured by troops under Frederick Funston in 1901.
Republic of the Philippines [or Pilipinas]
United States of America [or USA; or America]
Emilio Aguinaldo [or Emilio Famy Aguinaldo]
In this type of manufacturing, the company tries to reduce both its number of defects and its amount of inventory. For 10 points each:
Identify this adjective which describes a type of manufacturing popularized by Toyota to reduce muda, or waste. Eric Ries wrote a book on operating this type of startup.
This man kicked off the Efficiency Movement through books such as The Principles of Scientific Management. The "scientific" basis of his claims were often sketchy and much of his advice boiled down to "work harder and take fewer breaks".
In his "pig tale", Taylor touted the efficiencies he brought to a company in this industry in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The world's first billion dollar company was formed by merging Elbert H. Gary's and Andrew Carnegie's companies in this industry.
lean
Frederick Winslow Taylor
steel making
Matrons called Mama Cuna supervised the Chosen Women, virgins who worshiped this entity. For 10 points each:
Name this entity, for which a "hitching post" stone was built at Machu Picchu. The Incas worshiped this entity as Inti.
The main temple to Inti, Qorikancha, was known as the house of this metal. The Ransom Room was filled with this precious metal and silver in an attempt to rescue Atahualpa from Pizarro.
This Inca emperor renovated the House of the Sun. This ninth Sapa also rebuilt Cusco in the shape of a puma and organized the empire into four suyus.
the sun
gold
Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui [or Pachacutec; or Pachakutiq Inka Yupanki]
The most famous model for this icon was Michigander Geraldine Hoff Doyle. For 10 points each:
Name this iconic factory worker who represented women's role in home-front production during World War II. In one depiction, she appears flexing her arm below the slogan "We Can Do It!"
Rosie crushes a copy of Mein Kampf under her penny loafers in a cover Norman Rockwell designed for this bimonthly magazine, which also published Rockwell's illustrations of Roosevelt's Four Freedoms.
Many actual female riveters helped mass-produce low quality Liberty ships at seven West Coast shipyards owned by this industrialist, who launched his best-known initiative to provide health care for his workers.
Rosie the Riveter
The Saturday Evening Post
Henry J. Kaiser [or Henry John Kaiser]
These two provinces were annexed by Austria-Hungary in 1908, despite that country having agreed to return them to the Ottoman Empire. For 10 points each:
Identify these two provinces ruled as part of a "Condominium." These provinces were annexed at the same time that Bulgaria declared its independence.
Two years after Austria-Hungary annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina, this man bragged that he had been Austria's "knight in shining armor" during the controversy. This German emperor abdicated following Germany's defeat in World War I.
Austria-Hungary formally seized control of Bosnia and Herzegovina during the height of this movement, which was sparked by a revolt in the 3rd Army Corps by Ahmed Niyazi. As a result of this movement, Sultan AbdÃ¼lhamid II reestablished the Constitution of 1876.
Bosnia AND Herzegovina
Wilhelm II [or William II or Frederick William Victor Albert; prompt on Wilhelm; prompt on William]
Young Turk Revolution [or Young Turk Movement or Jonturkler]
The spiritual elite of this movement, known as the perfecti, abstaining from eating any organism that arose from sexual reproduction. For 10 points each:
"Name this heretical dualist sect that flourished in southern France until its members were targeted by an early 13th century "crusade."
In response to the Cathars and the Waldensians, the Catholic Church set up the first of these institutions charged with suppressing heresy. The later "Spanish" one administered by Tomas de Torqemada was renowned for its cruelty.
This warlord was elected leader of the Albigensian Crusade after the fall of Carcassone, and routinely gouged out the eyes of his prisoners. His son of the same name led the barons in revolt against Henry III of England.
Catharism [or Albegensianism; accept word forms]
inquisitions
Simon de Montfort [or Simon de Montfort, 5th Earl of Leicester; or Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester]
Answer the following about Apollonius of Rhodes, for 10 points each.
He engaged in a long-running feud with Callimachus sparked by a debate over the best way to execute this attribute of a poem. Callimachus attacked Apollonius's Homeric sympathies in this regard with the phrase "mega biblion, mega kakon".
He is best known for writing this epic poem about Jason's quest to find the Golden Fleece.
Apollonius Rhodius also served as the head librarian of the famous library in this Egyptian city. The destruction of this city's library may have been ordered by Julius Caesar.
the poem's length [or size or shortness; accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
the Argonautica
Alexandria
Emperors drank this substance in crushed-up powder form in beverages in an attempt to gain immortality, and a thin disk made from this substance called a bi was sometimes given to noblemen. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of precious stone, which was mined in the Tarim Basin and traded east to imperial China. A defined set of six ritual objects was made from this rock.
Some emperors of this Chinese dynasty, which lends its name to China's dominant ethnicity, were buried in full suits of jade armor. Wang Mang's usurpation of this dynasty overlaps in time with much of Emperor Augustus's reign in Rome.
The Han dynasty gave this name to enemy barbarians who lived along the northern border with China, who were the impetus for building the Great Wall. Emperor Wu Di of Han sent a huge failed expedition against these people, who later theories often link to the Huns with no credible evidence.
jade [or jadeite or nephrite]
Han dynasty
Xiongnu
This man probably landed in modern-day Maine and Nova Scotia while sailing with his son Sebastian under a patent granted by Henry VII. For 10 points each:
Identify this explorer who vanished after attempting to return to North America on a 1498 expedition.
Cabot was Italian, like this other explorer. This man entertained ideas that he had reached Cipango, aka Japan, while sailing west on the Santa Maria in 1492.
Another pair of Italian explorers, the Vivaldi brothers, were rumored to have gone to the court of this king after their disappearance. This mythical king was believed to rule a Christian domain in Ethiopia.
John Cabot [or Giovanni Cabot or John Cabatto]
Christopher Columbus [or Crisotbal Colon or Cristoforo Colombo]
Prester John [or Presbyter Johannes]
It began after Raj Narain successfully sued the Prime Minister for illegal electioneering. For 10 points each:
Name this period from 1975-77, in which the Congress-Party-led government ruled by decree, jailed dissidents, and embarked on Sanjay Gandhi's forced sterilization campaign.
This rival of Morarji Desai invoked Article 352 of India's Constitution during the Emergency. This female Prime Minister was later assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards after ordering a raid on the Golden Temple.
Early in her first premiership, Indira Gandhi promoted this type of national economy in which a country is entirely self-sufficient without need for trade. It is thus more extreme than protectionism.
the Emergency [or State of Emergency; or Apatakala]
Indira Gandhi
autarky
This case, which concerned the same issue as the earlier DeFunis v. Odengaard, hinged on the applicability of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and resulted in a plurality decision. For 10 points each:
Name this landmark 1978 case in which the Supreme Court struck down a medical's school practice of setting specific racial quotas for applicants.
At the same time, the Bakke decision upheld the constitutionality of this practice of granting special consideration to minorities or members of historically disadvantaged groups.
In 1971, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the namesake "plan" to institute racial quotas for hiring minority government contractors in this city was not inconsistent with Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act.
Regents of the University of California v. Bakke [or Regents v. Bakke; or the Bakke decision]
affirmative action
Philadelphia
During the 1st century AD, the legendary warrior Nomi no Sukune invented this activity, which takes place in a sand-covered ring called the dohyo. For 10 points each:
Name this form of wrestling that in actuality probably traces back to ancient Shinto harvest rituals. The objective is to push the opponent out of the ring or to make them touch the ground with something other than the soles of their feet.
Salt is thrown on the floor prior to sumo matches for this general purpose, which in Japanese is known as harae. Another method of accomplishing this goal is misogi, in which the participant stands under a waterfall and performs calisthenics.
Professional sumo tournaments began in 1684 at the Tomoika shrine to this Japanese tutelary god of warriors, whose name literally means "god of eight banners."
sumo wrestling
ritual purification [accept word forms; or ablution; prompt on cleansing or cleaning or washing or similar answers]
Hachiman
This woman was brought to France along with her older brother James, who went on to work extensively as a chef in Paris. For 10 points each:
Identify this slave. A 1998 DNA test proved that Peter Carr was not the father of her children, thus implicating her master, Thomas Jefferson.
While in Paris with James and Sally Hemings, Jefferson wrote a letter to William Stephens Smith asserting that this metaphorical plant "must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots &amp; tyrants".
Hemings' grandson, Thomas Eston Hemings, once spent time in this place. Henry Wirz was executed in 1865 for his role as commander of this place.
Sarah "Sally" Hemings
the tree of liberty
Andersonville Prison Camp [or Camp Sumter; do not accept "Fort Sumter"]
Spain was represented at this meeting by the notoriously annoying Marquis of Labrador. For 10 points each:
Name this meeting called by Klemens von Metternich, which attempted to restore the balance of power in Europe following the Napoleonic Wars.
This diplomat of Napoleon and former bishop represented France at the Congress of Vienna, where he skilfully prevented France from being treated as a defeated power in the negotiations.
The Great Powers met again five years later at the Congress of Troppau to discuss a revolution in this city. During the Napoleonic era, it served as the capital of the Parthenopean Republic before Joseph Bonaparte and Joachim Murat ruled as its kings.
Congress of Vienna
Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-PÃ©rigord
Naples [or Napoli]
Although this device was invented by Antoine Louis, it was named for the physician who pitched it to the National Assembly. For 10 points each:
Name this "national razor," conceived as a more humane alternative to beheading by axe or sword, that was frequently used during the French Revolution.
Guillotine usage peaked and fell in this Gregorian calendar year, during which the Reign of Terror finally came to an end and the instrument was turned on its most fanatical advocate, Maximilien Robespierre. 
Targets of this radical satirical newspaper published by Jacques Hebert often found themselves on a one way trip to Madame Guillotine. This newspaper is named for a pipe-smoking, musket-wielding, obscene everyman.
guillotine
1794 [prompt on 94]
Le Pere Duchesne [or Old Man Duchesne; or Father Duschene]
This woman was one of 20 women given to the Spanish by the Chontal Maya in a 1519 meeting on the Tabasco coast. For 10 points each:
Identify this woman who, according to legend, gave birth to the first mestizo child in Mexico. This wife of Juan Jaramillo used her mastery of the tecpillatolli dialect of Nahuatl to negotiate with Aztec rulers for the Spanish.
La Malinche was the mistress of this Spanish conquistador, who led the conquest of the Aztec Empire.
La Malinche appears in nine separate illustrations in this text, a compilation of Aztec history and lore by friar Bernardo de Sahagun. It gets its most common name because it was rediscovered in the Laurentian Library.
La Malinche [or Malinalli; or Malintzin; or DoÃ±a Marina]
Hernan Cortes [or HernÃ¡n CortÃ©s de Monroy y Pizarro, 1st Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca]
Florentine Codex [or Universal History of the things of New Spain; or General History of the things of New Spain; or Historia universal de las cosas de Nueva Espana]
This man was killed in 1820 in a duel stemming from his refusal to award James Barron the command of the Columbus. For 10 points each:
Identify this naval hero who once toasted, "our country, right or wrong". He gained fame for ordering that the ship Philadelphia be burned so it couldn't be captured.
Decatur's burning of the Philadelphia took place during these conflicts against namesake states in North Africa, which demanded increased tribute from US ships on the Mediterranean.
Another Barbary War hero, William Eaton, was later a key witness at this 1807 trial, at which Justice Marshall ruled that there was not enough evidence of an overt act to convict, and the defendant was exonerated.
Stephen Decatur
Barbary Wars [or Tripolitan Wars or First Barbary War]
Aaron Burr's treason trial
This empire allowed different religious groups to maintain their own semi-autonomous legal courts via its millet system. For 10 points each:
Identify this empire, which collected a metaphorical "blood tax" called the devşirme (dev-sheer-MEH) from families of non-dominant religions. The Tanzimat reforms sought to modernize this long-time ally of France.
Christian boys taken through devşirme might join the ranks of these elite troops of the Ottoman Empire. This corps was abolished after the Auspicious Incident in the 1820s.
Another role reserved for non-Turks in the Ottoman Empire was this role, the main steward of the sultan's harem. From its creation by Murad III into the mid-19th century, it was virtually always held by a slave from Nubia who rose the ranks.
Ottoman Empire [or Ottoman Turks; prompt on Turks]
Janissaries
Chief Black Eunuch [or Kizlar Agha]
A failed rebellion on this island in 1770 was led by a shipbuilder named Daskalogiannis. For 10 points each:
Identify this island where the Venetians surrendered at Candia after a lengthy siege in 1669. The Phaistos Disc was found on this island, which in ancient times was home to a bull-jumping cult.
Crete gained its independence from this empire in 1898. This "Sick Man of Europe" lost the Battle of Lepanto.
Excavations at Crete began in earnest when this archaeologist discovered the ruins of Knossos. This scholar coined the name Minoan for the culture at Knossos.
Crete [or Kriti or Krete]
Ottoman Empire
Arthur John Evans
One account says that the losing commander in this battle perished when the hut he was hiding in burned down. For 10 points each:
Identify this battle where Valens was killed by forces under Fritigern.
The Romans at Adrianople were defeated by an army of the Eastern branch of these "barbarians," whose Western branch gained control of Italy under Theodoric the Great. A leader of these people, Alaric, sacked Rome in 410.
The successor of Valens, Theodosius, made this council's version of Christianity into Rome's official religion. This eucemenical council, held in 325, condemned Arianism and resulted in the creation of a namesake creed.
Battle of Adrianople [or Battle of Hadrianopolis]
Goths [or Ostrogoths or Visigoths]
First Council of Nicaea
This advice was originally offered in the title of an editorial written by John B. L. Soule. For 10 points each:
Name this piece of advice, to which Horace Greeley added, "and grow up with the country."
The phrase "Go West, young man" exemplifies this sentiment that it was the duty of the United States to expand all throughout the continent.
Thomas Jefferson presaged the idea of Manifest Destiny by coining this three-word term to describe a stretch of "extensive and fertile country" America could add to protect against British incursion. This term titles Gordon Wood's volume about the United States from 1789-1815 in the Oxford History of the United States series.
"Go West, young man, go West and grow up with the country" [prompt on "Go West"]
Manifest Destiny
empire of liberty
Answer the following about the economic history of sandalwood, for 10 points each.
In the early 19th century, sandalwood was the chief export of this kingdom, which the Chinese called "Tan Heong Shan," meaning "fragrant sandalwood mountains". Sugar planters backed the Bayonet Constitution in the final years of this kingdom's independence.
Sandalwood, silver and this other good were practically the only goods China imported during the 19th century. Unease about British smugglers of this narcotic, which the British grew in India, led to its two namesake wars in China.
Americans first traded sandalwood obtained from this island group, which was once dominated by King Cakobau of the Bau Kingdom. Mahendra Chaudhry was the first person of Indian ancestry to become prime minister of this Commonwealth nation.
Kingdom of Hawai'i [or Hawaiian Empire]
 opium [or poppy tears; or Opium Wars]
Republic of Fiji [or Viti]
Under a monarch of this name, many Jews were able to escape to safety across the Oresund Strait. For 10 points each:
Identify this name of a Danish monarch who apocryphally wore a yellow star in support of the Jews.
The Telegram Crisis concerned Christian's curt response to this man after receiving a lengthy letter wishing Christian a happy birthday. This lover of Eva Braun gained absolute control of his country in the aftermath of the Reichstag fire.
Christian was the brother of this Norwegian king, who ruled Norway during both World Wars, although he fled to England to avoid the Nazi occupation.
Christian X [or Christian Carl Frederik Albert Alexander Vilhelm X]
Adolph Hitler
Haakon VII [prompt on Haakon]
This event occurred during an argument about an earlier incident, in which a pregnant woman suffered a miscarriage after being beaten for wearing revealing clothing. For 10 points each:
Name this 1581 event, accomplished with a scepter in the presence of Boris Godunov, that was depicted in an Ilya Repin painting in which its perpetrator looks horrified.
Ivan's relationship with his son began to deteriorate when the prince had asked for command of troops at Pskov, which was unsuccessfully besieged by this Polish king during his otherwise fruitful Livonian campaign.
The Stroganov family financed Ivan's campaign to start the conquest of this vast region of Russia, which was not finished until Vitus Bering led the Great Northern Expedition to map the Arctic coast.
 Ivan the Terrible killing his son [or Ivan IV's murder of his son; r Ivan the Terrible's murder of Ivan Ivanovich; prompt on Ivan's murder of his son; prompt on Ivan killing Ivan; prompt on the death of Ivan Ivanovich or anything that doesn't indicate that it's a murder]
Stephen Bathory [or Istvan Bathory; or Steponas Batoras]
Siberia
These animals were ineffectually banned from Paris after one of them startled the horse of the first-born son of King Louis VI, causing that son to be thrown to his death. For 10 points each:
Identify these animals, whose most common domestic variety is the Yorkshire. Archaeologists of ancient Israel look for the bones of these animals to determine if Jews had settled on a site or not, as Jews viewed these animals as unclean.
This country fought the so-called Pig War with the Austro-Hungarian Empire in the early 20th century after the empire banned the import of pigs from this country. A prince of this country was defeated in a battle on the Field of Blackbirds.
Razorbacks, a form of wild pig, were brought to present-day United States by this explorer who served as captain of the horse in Francisco Pizarro's conquest of Peru. This conquistador died while cavorting around Louisiana in search of gold in 1542.
pigs [or boars or wild pigs]
Kingdom of Serbia
Hernando De Soto [or Fernando De Soto]
In 1988, the government of Hong Kong passed a resolution distinguishing these people from political refugees, making it easier to detain new ones upon arrival. For 10 points each:
Identify this term for refugees unable to secure an American airlift, who began a mass exodus in 1975. Some of these people were preyed upon by pirates, and others ended up on Galang Island in Indonesia.
The boat people took to the sea after the fall of this capital of South Vietnam. An iconic photograph shows people climbing a ladder to get into one of the last American helicopters evacuating this city.
Some boat people ended up in a refugee camp on Bidong Island in this country, where lots of Communists took up arms during the Darurat, also called its namesake Emergency.
Vietnamese boat people [prompt on descriptive answers such as Vietnamese refugees]
Saigon [or Ho Chi Minh City]
Federation of Malaysia
The core cities of this organization included the port of Lubeck. For 10 points each:
Name this alliance of trade houses which controlled commerce in the Baltic Sea for much of the late Middle Ages.
This Russian city, the first city which Alexander Nevsky ruled as prince, was the easternmost major city where the Hanseatic league operated. A prince named Oleg from here later founded the Rus' state in Kiev.
The Hanseatic League operated out of these trade houses in foreign cities. The one in London was known informally as the Steelyard.
Hanseatic League [or Hansa]
Novgorod Veliky [or Veliky Novgorod; do not accept "Nizhny Novgorod"]
kontors [or kontore]
These animals are mourned in ceremonies called kuyo and some Buddhists consider them kujira, making them exempt from bans on eating meat. For 10 points each:
Identify these large mammals, a major foodstuff in post-war Japan. They were hunted for their oil by American crews whose home port was often New Bedford or Nantucket.
The ship Rainbow Warrior, which protested whaling and nuclear testing, was sunk in a harbor in this country by French agents. William Hobson got natives to agree to a coercive treaty in this country, the first to enact female suffrage by law nationwide.
Until 2006 or so, this New World country frequently voted with Japan against international bans on whaling. This modern-day country, home to the ruins of Caracol, was once a colony ruled by "baymen."
whales
New Zealand
Belize
One of these people named Shadrach Minkins was assisted by the Boston Vigilante Committee after being apprehended by US Marshalls. For 10 points each:
Identify these people helped by personal liberty laws, which required that they receive a fair trial by jury. Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution concerns these people.
Minkins eventually made it to Canada using this clandestine escape channel, whose "conductors" included Harriet Tubman.
An earlier Fugitive Slave Act was signed into law in this year, the same year that the Neutrality Proclamation was issued. The most notable yellow fever epidemic to hit Philadelphia occurred in this year.
fugitive slaves [prompt on slaves]
Underground Railroad
1793
This document promised votes on ten key bills, such as the Taking Back Our Streets Act and the Personal Responsibility Act, within the first 100 days of the 104th United States Congress. For 10 points each:
Name this document signed onto by over three hundred Republican congressional candidates, foremost among them Newt Gingrich.
The Contract with America helped the Republicans earn massive Congressional victories in this calendar year, the first in which midterm elections were weathered by sitting President Bill Clinton.
They day after a similar "wave election" occurred in 2010 during Barack Obama's first term, Obama used this expressive word to indicate the heavy losses that he, and by extension his party, took.
Contract with America
1994
"take a shellacking" [accept word forms such as shellacked]
Fishing was an important industry in ancient Roman times, yes it was. For 10 points each:
Costumes for these people included the trident-wielding retiarius and the fish-helmeted murmillo. These slaves often wore stereotyped costumes when fighting in facilities such as the Colosseum.
Many Roman elites kept private fishing ponds in these luxurious country homes. The one built for Hadrian in present-day Tivoli is particularly large.
In the ancient world, many fish had their intestines ground up and fermented to make this ubiquitous culinary sauce, which was put on pretty much any food.
gladiators
villas
garum [or liquamen]
Answer the following about industrial disasters in recent history, for 10 points each.
A gas leak in a pesticide plant in this India town killed over 20,000 people in 1984. In 2010, an Indian court convicted former executives at a Union Carbide subsidiary of negligence due to the disaster in this town.
In 2013, a factory producing these types of goods collapsed in Dhaka in Bangladesh. In the 19th century, the British placed heavy tariffs on these types of goods made in India and encouraged Indians to import British goods of this kind made in factories with industrial looms.
In the early 1970s, at least 650 people in this country were poisoned by grain accidentally coated with methylmercury. In 1958, the 14 July Revolution overthrew the monarchy of this country, which won the battle of Khorramshahr in 1980.
Bhopal, India
textiles [or clothes; or garments; or fabrics]
Republic of Iraq
This man once worked to tend the wounds of gladiators in Pergamum. For 10 points each:
Identify this one-time physician for Marcus Aurelius and several of the emperor's successors. This author's treatises, such as On Anatomical Procedure, were massively influential to the medical theories of the Middle Ages.
This earlier Greek physician was dubbed "the Asclepiad of Cos" by Plato and is best known today for his namesake oath where doctors pledge to do no harm to their patients.
Herophilus of Chalcedon, who figured out that the brain was the center of the nervous system, worked in this city. Callimachus compiled an influential catalog of Greek literature in this city, which was home to the mathematician Hypatia.
Galen [or Claudius Galenus]
Hippocrates [or Hippocratic Oath]
Alexandria, Egypt
The first one of these buildings in Ancient Egypt was formed by stacking six mastabas, one on top of another, and was built for Djoser by Imhotep. For 10 points each:
Name these monumental layered buildings, also exemplified by the ziggurats of Mesopotamia.
New World examples of step pyramids include the Pyramid of the Sun and Pyramid of the Moon at this archaeological site in the Valley of Mexico, pre-dating the Aztec empire.
The Teotihaucan may have also built this most voluminous pyramid in the world. Located in the Mexican state of Puebla, it is now mostly buried under a hill and topped by the Church of Our Lady of Remedies.
step pyramids [prompt on partial answer]
Teotihuacan (tay-oh-tee-wa-KAHN)
Great Pyramid of Cholula
This man was betrayed by the patrician Giovanni Mocenigo, who lured him to Venice by asking him to become an in-house tutor. For 10 points each:
Name this Dominican friar who was deemed a heretic by the Roman Inquisition for his dogged support for a heliocentric model of the universe, and was burned at the stake in 1600.
Bruno was a contemporary of this scientist, who was placed under house arrest for writing Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, but was not killed. He discovered the moons Ganymede, Io, Europa, and Callisto.
Bruno and Galileo both lectured at the second-oldest university in Italy, located in this city in northern Italy that was governed by the Carrara family, then controlled for nearly four centuries by its eastern neighbor Venice.
Giordano Bruno [or Filippo Bruno; or Iordanus Brunus Nolanus; prompt on Il Nolano; prompt on Nolanus]
Galileo Galilei [or Galileo Galilei]
Padua [or Padova]
Moderator note: do not reveal the alternate answer to the first bonus part. The man who negotiated this treaty gave the emperor an ultimatum from President Fillmore and then left the country for a year. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1854 treaty which opened up the ports of Shimoda and Hakodate in Japan to American trade.
The Treaty of Kanagawa was signed after this US Commodore sailed four ships into Tokyo Bay. His brother, Oliver Hazard, was known as the Hero of Lake Erie.
This right, the right to be exempted from local law was established for foreign traders in Japan in followup agreements to the Treaty of Kanagawa. The Treaty of Nanking granted it to British subjects in China.
Treaty of Kanagawa [prompt on Perry Convention]
Commodore Matthew Calbraith Perry
extraterritoriality [or extraterritorial rights; or extraterritorial jurisdiction]
In the 1950s, Hollywood stars including Bing Crosby and Jimmy Stewart invested heavily in this industry as a tax dodge. For 10 points each:
Name this industry which Edwin Drake helped start in Titusville, Pennsylvania.
The oil industry suffered public relations setbacks when this tanker ran aground in 1989, causing significant ecological damage to Prince William Sound.
This largest privately held company in the world produces almost eight billion barrels a year from its wells in the Middle East. Its namesake World magazine covers Arabic culture.
oil mining/extraction industry [or petroleum; or crude oil; prompt on energy]
Exxon Valdez
Saudi Aramco
Christian missionaries in this modern-day country were persecuted by Queen Ranavalona I, who reversed many of the policies of her husband and predecessor. For 10 points each:
Name this island country home to ruins of the Merina culture, which was first turned into a kingdom by Radama I.
The so-called Red Togas resisted the rule of this colonial power on Madagascar in the early 20th century. This European nation's other African colonies included modern-day Gabon and the Ivory Coast.
The Malagasy language is closely related to the Barito languages of this distant island, whose peoples may have settled Madagascar centuries ago. The English Brooke family ruled as "White Rajahs" of this island's Kingdom of Sarawak.
Madagascar [or Kingdom of Madagascar or Republic of Madagascar]
France [or French Republic]
Borneo [or Kalimantan]
This emperor briefly acquired Kandahar from Ali Mardan Khan in 1638, but tried three times to unsuccessfully retake the fortress after it fell. For 10 points each:
Name this Mughal emperor, the son of Jahangir. The Lahori Gate is part of one building constructed by this emperor.
Shah Jahan constructed this mausoleum for this beloved wife Mumtaz in Agra. This white building with an ultra-notable onion dome was restored under Lord Curzon.
Other elaborate domed tombs on the Indian subcontinent include the Qutb Shahi tombs of this city in Andhra Pradesh. The fort of Golconda is due west of this city, which Nizam VII kept independent of newly-independent India for a year before it was reluctantly absorbed.
Shah Jahan [or Shahjahan; or Prince Khurram]
Taj Mahal
Hyderabad ("HYDRA"-bahd)
Its seven virtues included courage, honor and respect. For 10 points each:
Identify this honor code followed by the forty-seven ronin when they avenged the death of Asano Naganori.
More generally, the bushido code governed these Japanese warriors who usually carried a long katana and a shorter wakizashi blade. Many of them rose up against the loss of their traditional rights in the Satsuma Rebellion.
Samurai also needed technical and tactical advice on how to fight well. This 1643 book by acclaimed samurai Miyamoto Musashi, whose scrolls are each identified with an East Asian classical element, provided just that.
bushido
samurai
Book of Five Rings [or Go Rin no Sho]
Before missiles, there was a panic over a so-called gap in these weapons after intelligence reports misread how many Bisons were present at a 1955 military exhibition in Moscow. For 10 points each:
Identify thes things. The so-called "Candy" or "Raisin" type of them was used in 1948 in Berlin.
Fears about the "bomber gap" prompted the development of this aircraft. Gary Powers was exchanged for Rudolph Abel after he was shot down in one of these above Soviet airspace.
This presidential candidate warned of the non-existent "missile gap" during his successful 1960 campaign against Richard Nixon.
bombers [prompt on airplanes; prompt on warplanes; prompt on jets; do not accept "fighters"]
Lockheed U-2 [prompt on spy plane]
John Fitzgerald Kennedy [or JFK or Jack Kennedy; prompt on Kennedy]
In the 18th century, this organization began publishing the journal Philosophical Transactions and awarding the Copley Medal. For 10 points each:
Name this science-focused learned society granted a charter by King Charles II. Robert Hooke served as "curator of experiments" for this society, which greatly increased in prestige during the presidency of Isaac Newton.
The Royal Society approved the marine chronometer invented by this carpenter and clockmaker, whose invention solved the problem of establishing longitude at sea.
Newton wrote a letter to Hooke in which he explained that, "if I have seen further, it is by standing on" these metaphorical things.
 Royal Society [or The President, Council, and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for Improving Natural Knowledge]
John Harrison
the shoulders of giants [prompt on shoulders; prompt on giants]
Lawbreakers at these events were often hauled before piepowder courts. For 10 points each:
Name these events in the Middle Ages, usually larger in scale than markets, where merchants displayed and sold goods from around the world. A traditional English ballad celebrates an exceptionally-long 45-day one annually held at Scarborough.
The vendors at the fair in Stourbridge, England specialized in selling this raw material, which was usually shipped across the English Channel to markets in Flanders.
The Stourbridge fair was intended to raise money for a chapel named for this sort of person. Baldwin IV of Jerusalem was one of these people.
chartered fairs [accept any answer that includes the word fair]
wool [prompt on textiles]
lepers [or people with leprosy]
Answer the following about women in Victorian Britain, for 10 points each.
Upper-class British women wore this constricting garment, typically made of metal or whalebone, to mold their torsos into an hourglass shape.
Unmarried middle-class women in England often found themselves in this lonely profession training children in well-off households. Marriage was typically seen as the only way out of this profession.
Women working in this specific occupation were the lowest on the hierarchy of female domestic servants, and worked in the namesake combination laundry and dishwashing rooms. These women served as assistants to kitchen maids.
corsets
governess
scullery maids
Roger de Breteuil and two other men of this rank staged a namesake revolt against William I in 1075. For 10 points each:
Identify this rank of British nobility. This rank was held by Warwick the Kingmaker during the War of the Roses.
Earls traditionally were the commanders of a regional army called a fyrd. Fyrds were organized by this "great" king of Wessex who won the Battle of Edington in 878.
This king rewarded his supporters by creating nine earldoms in three years during the Anarchy, his conflict with Empress Matilda.
earls [or jarls]
Alfred the Great
Stephen I [or Stephen of Blois]
In January 2015, it was revealed that this man's death mask had been repaired with the wrong kind of glue. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose tomb and elaborate gold death mask were discovered by Howard Carter in 1922 in Egypt's Valley of the Kings.
The eyebrows and eyeliner of the mask are made from this blue stone, which had to be imported from Afghanistan where it is still mined today. It is ground down to make the brilliant pigment ultramarine.
For other parts of King Tut's mask, the Egyptians didn't have to look quite so far to get the "Sinai" variety of this greenish-blue stone. Over in the new world, it was mined from Chaco Canyon in New Mexico and used as currency by the Anasazi.
Tutankhamun [or King Tut]
lapis lazuli
turquoise
Some scholars have pointed to the headdress of the Saka king on the Behistun Inscription as evidence that the Scythians and Cimmerians make up most or all of this group. For 10 points each:
Name these people who traced their descent from Asher, Dan, Ephraim, Gad, Issachar, Manasseh, Naphtali, Reuben, Simeon, and Zebulun. They drop out of the historical record after the 722 BCE conquest of the Kingdom of Israel.
A sizable part of this community traces its descent from the lost tribe of Dan, rather than the Queen of Sheba. The key scripture in this community, the Orit, is written in the Ge'ez language.
The namesakes of the ten lost and two not-lost tribes were the sons of this man, who had children with his wives Leah and Rachel, and their handmaidens Zilpah and Bilhah. He earned the name "Israel" after wrestling with God.
Ten Lost Tribes of Israel [prompt on Tribes of Israel]
Beta Israel [or Ethiopian Jews; or Falashas; or Yehudey Etyopyah]
Jacob [or Yaakov]
Name some things about the most interesting man in 19th century America, Charles Grandison Finney, for 10 points each.
Finney coined the term for the "burned-over" district during this period in the 19th century when church membership soared. It is named in reference to a similar period of revival in the 18th century.
Finney served as the second president of this liberal arts university in Ohio that was among the first to admit black and women students.
Finney's preaching style was opposed by this man at the New Lebanon Conference. This first president of Lane Theological Seminary had a son named Henry Ward.
Second Great Awakening [prompt on Great Awakening]
Oberlin College
Lyman Beecher
The Catholic monk Nicolas Baudeau introduced the ideas of this school to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. For 10 points each:
 Identify this group of 18th century French thinkers who referred to themselves as economistes and were founded by Francois Quesnay. They claimed that nations derived their wealth solely from the bounty of their agricultural products and the value of their land.
The Physiocrat Vincent de Gournay popularized this French term, meaning "let it go," which calls for the absence of tariffs, regulations, and other governmental barriers to transactions between private parties.
The Scottish-born Physiocrat John Law caused the economic collapse of France by buying this joint-stock company and encouraging rampant speculation in it.
Physiocrats [accept word forms, such as Physiocracy]
laissez-faire (LAY-say FAIR)
Mississippi Company [or Company of the West; or Company of the Indies; or Mississippi Bubble]
The Catholic monk Nicolas Baudeau introduced the ideas of this school to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. For 10 points each:
Identify this group of 18th century French thinkers who referred to themselves as economistes and were founded by Francois Quesnay. They claimed that nations derived their wealth solely from the bounty of their agricultural products and the value of their land.
The Physiocrat Vincent de Gournay popularized this French term, meaning "let it go," which calls for the absence of tariffs, regulations, and other governmental barriers to transactions between private parties.
The Scottish-born Physiocrat John Law caused the economic collapse of France by buying this joint-stock company and encouraging rampant speculation in it.
Physiocrats [accept word forms, such as Physiocracy]
laissez-faire (LAY-say FAIR)
Mississippi Company [or Company of the West; or Company of the Indies; or Mississippi Bubble]
Initial dating suggested that objects of this material found at Ban Chiang in Thailand may have been created as far back as 4420 BCE. For 10 points each:
Identify this metal alloy fashioned into a variety of military weapons. According to Christian JÃ¼rgensen Thomsen's taxonomy, an age named for this metal preceded the Iron Age.
These people traveled all of the way to modern-day Cornwall, England in order to obtain tin used in making bronze. These people also traded a dye made from a snail, Tyrian purple.
These other people emerged during the so-called Bronze Age collapse. Their namesake empire had a capital at Ecbatana and was last ruled by Astyages, the grandfather of Cyrus the Great. 
bronze
Phoenicians
Medes [or Medians]
[missing]
Name this medium whose users had to provide balanced coverage of public issues until the FCC removed the "fairness doctrine" in the 80s. FDR's "fireside chats" were delivered using this medium.
This anti-Semitic Catholic priest delivered popular radio addresses opposing Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal from Royal Oak, Michigan.
This doctor, another critic of FDR's New Deal, popularized a namesake national pension plan which influenced the Social Security Act.
radio broadcast
Father Charles Coughlin
Francis Townsend
[missing]
Identify this island, home of a Dutch enclave called Batavia. In 1891, a namesake Homo erectus fossil was found at Trinil on this Southeast Asian island.
After taking over from the Dutch, this British lieutenant governor of Java eased many of the colonial restrictions on the island. He also established the British colony in Singapore.
This Indonesian autocrat's rise to power was aided by thousands of anti-Communist killings in Java. He forced Sukarno to transfer power to him in 1965.
Java [or Djawa or Jawa]
Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles
Suharto
[missing]
Name this European nation ruled by dictator Antonio Salazar from 1932 until 1968. Much earlier, it was home to Prince Henry the Navigator.
The DGS killed four people in this otherwise bloodless Portuguese revolution which ended the Estado Novo in 1974.
This man, whose was overthrown by the Carnation Revolution, became Prime Minister of Portugal after Salazar suffered a stroke. He lived out his final years in exile at a Brazilian university.
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic]
Carnation Revolution [or Revolucao dos Cravos; or 25th of April Revolution]
Marcello Jose das Neves Alves Caetano
[missing]
Name this Caribbean plantation colony which produced coffee and sugar until a slave revolt coalesced around Toussaint L'Ouverture.
These people often opposed the slave rebels in Haiti. Andre Rigaud, who fought against Toussaint L'Ouverture, was one of these people, whose subtypes in the US included quadroons.
This dark-skinned general declared Haiti's independence after L'Ouverture's imprisonment and death. His troops declared him Emperor-for-Life after he ordered a massacre of remaining whites.
Saint-Domingue [accept Haiti]
mulattoes [or gens de couleur livres; or free blacks; accept any answer indicating free persons of color; accept any answer indicating part-black, biracial, multiracial, or mixed-race free people; do not accept "maroons"]
Jean-Jacques Dessalines [or Jacques I of Haiti]
[missing]
Name this colony once led by William Claiborne. Its governor in 1689 was deposed in a rebellion led by John Coode.
This border between Maryland and Pennsylvania, named for two colonial-era surveyors, was the traditional separator of the American South from the North.
Every fifth milestone on the Mason-Dixon Line bore the coat of arms of the Penn family on one side and of this family on the other side. Lord Baltimore was from this family.
Province of Maryland
Mason-Dixon Line [or Mason and Dixon Line]
Calvert family
[missing]
Name this Czech religious reformer who condemned Antipope John XXIII's sale of indulgences. His namesake wars began after he was burned at the stake for heresy.
Jan Hus was executed at this ecumenical council, which was organized by Emperor Sigismund and ended the Western Schism by electing Pope Martin V.
This one-eyed Taborite general, a reformist commander in the Hussite Wars, withstood Sigismund's siege of Prague at the Battle of Vitkov Hill. His tactics included arming wagon circles with cannons.
Jan Hus
Council of Constance
Jan ÂŽiÂžka [or Johann Schischka]
[missing]
Name this undeclared conflict, a set of naval skirmishes between France and the United States during the presidency of John Adams.
One cause of the Quasi-War was French anger over this treaty between the US and Britain. Its negotiator, the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, was burned in effigy in many American streets.
A fort on this island in the Great Lakes was among the six evacuated by residual British troops as part of Jay's treaty. John Jacob Astor made this island a center of the Midwest fur trade.
The Quasi-War [or Pirate Wars; or Half-War]
Jay's Treaty [or Treaty of London of 1794; prompt on "the British Treaty"]
Mackinac Island ["MACK"-i-naw]
[missing]
Name this 1994 atrocity in which radio messages about "cockroaches" and "tall trees" inspired Hutus to kill their Tutsi neighbors.
An international criminal tribunal for the Rwandan genocide was held in this other African country's city of Arusha. Since Julius Nyerere's leadership, it has included an Arab trading island off the coast.
This President of Rwanda was shot down by a missile as his plane was preparing to land in Kigali shortly before the genocide began.
Rwandan genocide [prompt on "Rwandan Civil War"]
United Republic of Tanzania
JuvÃ©nal Habyarimana
[missing]
Name this stadtholder who gave a speech on religious toleration in the Spanish Council of State and urged the Sea Beggars to petition Margaret of Parma to end religious persecution.
William the Silent was from this modern-day country's House of Orange. The seven United Provinces of this historically-Calvinist country broke from Spain in the Eighty Years' War.
This "Iron Duke" tried to stamp out the Dutch revolt by setting up the so-called Council of Blood. He was recalled to Spain after failing to seize all of Zeeland and Holland.
William the Silent [or William I, Prince of Orange, Count of Nassau or Willem I or Willem de Zwijger; prompt on "William of Orange"]
The Netherlands [or Nederland; or Holland]
Duke of Alba [or Fernando Alvarez de Toledo, 3rd Duke of Alba; or Grand Duke of Alba; or Ferdinandus Toletanus Dux Albanus]
[missing]
This cartoonist for Harper's Weekly depicted Boss Tweed as a vulture in "Let Us Prey," one of his many anti-Tammany Hall drawings. He was the first to draw the Republican Party as an elephant.
An early political cartoon depicted this Jeffersonian act as a "snapping-turtle," reversing its name. This act's successor, the Non-Intercourse Act, was targeted only at Britain and France.
In an cartoon from the 1830s, this Philadelphia-based official's head sports a top hat as the largest head on a "many-headed monster" facing a sword from the incumbent president.
Thomas Nast
Embargo Act [the cartoon is entitled "OGRABME, the Snapping-Turtle"]
Nicholas Biddle [prompt on president of the Second Bank of the United States]
[missing]
This city was renamed Aelia Capitolina during Hadrian's rule, when the Romans banned Jews from it after Bar Kokhba's rebellion. Herod the Great and the Sanhedrin held power here.
The waterways in this Nabataean city, a landmark ruin in modern-day Jordan, have long since dried up. Its ornate Treasury was carved into rock face.
During the reign of Aurelian, this city of the Levant rose up under the empress Zenobia.
Jerusalem [or Hierosolymis; or Yerushalayim]
Petra
Palmyra [or Tadmor]
[missing]
Name this region which Russia expanded into between 1600 and 1800. In the early 20th century, a railway was built across it to Vladivostok.
Trade in this good, which tribes gave Russia via the yasak tax, spurred the Siberian conquest. Concurrently, France established Montreal to trade with Native Americans for this good.
Under this tsar, the economic reforms of Sergei Witte used new methods of plowing to make Siberia productive. He also ruled during the rise of Peter Stolypin.
Siberia
fur trade [accept answers specifically indicating the fur of beavers, sables, bears, polar bears, squirrels, weasels, or any other specific furry creature from Siberia]
Nicholas II Romanov
[missing]
Name this island, where the "sardine capital" of Zamboanga City was retaken by government forces at the end of the month.
Mindanao is the southernmost island in this Asian country. The MalacaÃ±ang Palace is the official residence of its President.
Under this president of the Philippines, the government agreed to a peace deal with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in January 2014. This member of the Liberal Party won the presidential election of 2010 over Joseph Estrada after the death of his mother.
Mindanao
Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]
Benigno Simeon Cojuangco Aquino III [or Noynoy Aquino; prompt on Benigno Aquino]
[missing]
Identify this major boulevard in a European capital where signs reading "PAZI!" warned of constant danger during an extended siege by Serbs in the 1990s.
Sarajevo was home to Sniper Alley during a war named for this republic. It suffered the Srebrenica massacre after it declared independence from Yugoslavia along with its constituent Herzegovina.
The Bosnian War was ended by this agreement, signed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near its namesake U.S. city. Bosnia's copy of this agreement was embarrassingly lost in 2008.
Sniper's Alley [or Ulica Zmaja od Bosne; prompt on "Sarajevo"]
Bosnia [or Bosnian War]
Dayton-Paris agreement [or Dayton Accords; or General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina; prompt on "Paris Protocol"]
[missing]
Give this name. The second Byzantine emperor to hold this name was known as the Bulgar-Slayer after his vigorous campaigns in the Balkans.
Basil I commissioned changes to this set of documents. Partially written by Tribonian, it was promulgated by the husband of Theodora to standardize judicial precedent across the empire.
Basil II signed a truce with this Islamic dynasty, whose "mad caliph" al-Hakim ordered the razing of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
Basil [or Basileios]
Justinian's legal code [or Codex Justinianus; or Corpus Juris Civilis; or Body of Civil Law; or Digesta seu Pandectae; or Institutes of Justinian]
Fatimid caliphate
[missing]
Name this American policy during World War II, which began after Executive Order 9066 and relocated over a hundred thousand people without trial.
The ruling in this Supreme Court case upheld the constitutionality of Japanese internment. It was brought by a florist with given name Fred.
The Korematsu ruling argued that interment met this strongest threshold of judicial review, which is often applied in discrimination cases rather than the weaker rational-basis standard.
Japanese-American internment camps [accept equivalent answers indicating that people of Japanese ethnicity within America were interned during World War II]
Korematsu v. United States [or United States v. Korematsu]
strict scrutiny
[missing]
Name these large boats with heavily armored roofs over the deck, commissioned by Admiral Yi Sun-Sin under the Joseon dynasty.
Turtle ships defended this peninsula from an attempted Japanese invasion by Toyotomi Hideyoshi. It is now divided at the 38th parallel.
This fourth emperor of the Joseon dynasty is credited with developing the phonetic Hangul writing system in the 1400s, though yangban elites resisted the change.
turtle ships [or geobukseon]
Korean peninsula
Sejong the Great
[missing]
Identify this discipline, which was described as a selection process in a 1961 study by E.H. Carr entitled "What Is [this discipline]?" It has been done by Cassius Dio and Sallust.
Carr explores how historians select "important facts" by discussing this 49 BCE act, at which the 13th Legion's commander said "alea iacta est" and overstepped his imperium to begin a civil war.
Carr's essay mocks Pascal's suggestion that this Egyptian queen's nose was responsible for beguiling Marc Antony, and thus caused the end of the Roman Republic.
history [or historiography]
Gaius Julius Caesar's army crossing the Rubicon river [accept equivalents]
Cleopatra VII Philopator
[missing]
Name this prominent banking family of Germany and Britain. Its patriarch, Mayer Amschel, profited heavily from the Napoleonic wars.
The British government took over the company operating this waterway after Lionel Rothschild provided them four million pound loan. Ferdinand de Lesseps planned this canal before his failures in Panama.
This first president of the French Third Republic was propped up by "liberation loans" from the Rothschilds. This rival of Francois Guizot had previously served under Louis-Philippe.
Rothschild family [or the Rothschilds]
Suez Canal [or Qanat al-Suways]
Adolphe Thiers [or Marie Joseph Louis Adolphe Thiers]
[missing]
Identify these places that shelter people displaced by wars and natural disasters.
The largest refugee camp in the world is the Dadaab camp in this country. A 2007 crisis in this country was sparked by an election contested by Raila Odinga and his backers in the Orange Democratic Movement.
The Sabra and Shatila massacre took place in refugee camps during a 1982 conflict named for this country.
refugee camps
Republic of Kenya
Lebanon [or Lebanese Republic]
[missing]
Name this leader who, when asked how far he would go to resolve the secessionist October Crisis, said "Just watch me." He invoked the War Measures Act to suppress the FLQ.
The October Crisis took place in this Canadian province, whose predominantly French population has voted down two referenda on independence.
During the crisis, this Minister of Labour for Quebec was kidnapped while playing with a nephew on his front lawn. Unlike the Brit James Cross, he was killed during his abduction.
(Joseph Philippe) Pierre Yves Elliott Trudeau
Quebec
Pierre Laporte
Many of this man's alleged speeches were made up wholesale by his biographer William Wirt. For 10 points each:
Name this patriot who succeeded loyalist Lord Dunmore as governor of Virginia. This Anti-Federalist ally of George Mason later refused to attend the Constitutional Convention because he "smelt a rat".
According to Wirt's biography, Henry used this seven-word imperative phrase to end a fiery speech in St. John's Church, asking the Virginia House of Burgesses to support the Revolution.
Henry made his fame by helping these people sue for back pay after their salaries were effectively slashed by the Two-Penny Act. Their previous salaries in tobacco were worth three times more.
Patrick Henry
"Give me liberty or give me death!"
Anglican parsons [or ministers; or clergymen of the Church of England]
