A letter from this man was supposedly found in Stalin’s office warning him to ‘Stop sending people to kill me! ...If you don't stop sending killers, I'll send a very fast working one to Moscow and I certainly won't have to send another.’ For 10 points each:
That letter came from this leader of the Yugoslav Partisans in the Second World War, who became Prime Minister and then President for Life in the post-war years.
Tito’s differences with Stalin in part arose because of his ambitions to unite Yugoslavia with this other country following the Lake Bled accord. This country’s first communist leader had been tried in Germany for complicity in the Reichstag Fire.
The official collapse of Yugoslav-Soviet relations came about with the expulsion of Yugoslavia from this pre-Warsaw Pact body, an alliance of Marxist-Leninist states formed in 1947. The expulsion of Yugoslavia from this body was somewhat awkward, since it was headquartered in Belgrade.
Josip Broz Tito [accept either underlined part]
Bulgaria
Cominform [accept Information Bureau of the Communist and Workers' Parties] &lt;OSC&gt;
The missing fourth volume of this writer’s <em>History of Rome</em>, concerned with the Empire, was reconstructed from their lecture notes. For 10 points each:
Name this writer, who founded the Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum, edited the Corpus Iuris Civilis, and contributed editions of Cassiodorus’s Variae and Jordanes’s Getica to the Monumenta Germaniae Historica.
The UK equivalent to the MGH is Pipe Roll Society, which is based in this institution at Kew. This institution holds the decennial census records, as well as many other items including Jack the Ripper’s ‘Dear Boss’ letter.
Perhaps the best known items in the National Archives are the two volumes of this 1086 survey of England and Wales commissioned by William the Conqueror.
Christian Matthias Theodor Mommsen
The National Archives
Domesday Book &lt;AP&gt;
The period named for this city saw the introduction of the Yoro law code and lasted until Emperor Kammu ordered the relocation of the capital to Nagaoka. For 10 points each:
Name this city, laid out on a grid to resemble Chang’an, that served as capital of Japan from 710 to 784.
This period followed the Nara period, when the capital had moved to modern Kyoto. During this period, Buddhism spread widely through Japan and literary works like the Pillow Book and the Tale of Genji were written.
Due to weak emperors, the Heian period was dominated by aristocratic clans like this one, whose member Kiyomori rose to the position of daijo daijin. This family was defeated by the Minamoto clan in the Genpei War, leading to the establishment of the first shogunate.
Nara [accept Heijo-kyo]
Heian period
Taira &lt;CJ&gt;
One of this architect’s most notable achievements was constructing a dam on the River Glyme to form the Great Lake in front of Blenheim Palace. For 10 points each:
Name this figure who originally worked under William Kent. Extremely popular for their harmonious, un-stylized designs, they became known by a word they used to assess properties they were hired to improve.
Blenheim the building was designed partly by Nicholas Hawksmoor, who previously worked as an assistant to this other architect. This architect designed St. Paul’s Cathedral after the Great Fire of London.
In addition to making badly-needed repairs to Beverley Minster, Hawksmoor also worked in Yorkshire on the design of this stately home. Among his contributions to this site’s gardens are a large pyramid and the first free-standing mausoleum in Europe since Roman times.
Capability Brown
Sir Christopher Wren
Castle Howard &lt;CJ&gt;
Answer some questions on the economic history of the counties of Kent, Sussex, and Dorset, for 10 points each:
Name this illegal activity. The Hawkhurst Gang engaged in this activity to evade taxation on the import of alcohol and tea for nearly fifteen years before their defeat by a local militia at the 1747 Battle of Goudhurst.
One of the Hawkhurst Gang’s most daring raids was on the Custom House in this Dorset town to recover their own confiscated shipment. This town’s large natural harbour contains the island where Baden-Powell set up the first Scout camp.
The Mermaid and Olde Bell inns in this town were connected by a secret passage and used by the Hawkhurst Gang. This town replaced New Romney as one of the Cinque Ports after the River Rother changed course.
smuggling
Poole
Rye &lt;AP&gt;
One of the two dynasties named for this animal reached its territorial apex under Uzuan Hasan, and the other rebelled against the Jalairid Sulanate while led by Qara Yusuf. For 10 points each:
Name this animal whose ‘white’ and ‘black’ varieties named a pair of Oghuz Turkic dynasties that expanded east from Anatolia in the late fourteenth and early fifteenth centuries.
The Black Sheep ruler Iskander reportedly turned this modern-day country into a ‘desert’ during his rule. A civil war between Iskander and his brother Jihanshah in this country saw the sacking of the Tatev monastery and the relocation of a catholicos to Etchmiadzin Cathedral.
Both the Black and White Sheep fought constantly with successors of this earlier conqueror. The White Sheep’s victory at the Battle of Qarabagh forced the retreat of this man’s empire back toward Samarkand.
sheep
Armenia
Timur the Lame [accept Tamerlane] &lt;CJ&gt;
The last emir of this state, Said Mir Mohammed Alim Khan, was overthrown in 1920 during the Russian Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this state, which lost Samarkand to Russia in 1868 and became a protectorate 5 years later. This emirate had arisen in the aftermath of the conquest of the khanate of the same name by Nadir Shah of Persia.
The conquest of Bukhara and the neighbouring khanates of Khiva and Kokand was seen by some in the west as part of this broad confrontation between the Russian and British empires. The coiner of this term, Arthur Conolly, was executed by Emir Nasrullah Khan of Bukhara for spying in 1842.
As part of the Great Game, Afghanistan became a buffer zone between British and Russian spheres of influence. After a joint commission demarcated Afghanistan’s border with Russia, this boundary was drawn by a namesake diplomat between Afghanistan and British India, dividing Pashtun populations.
Emirate of Bukhara
the Great Game
Durand Line &lt;OSC&gt;
From 1663, this city became the site of the Eternal Diet, which lasted until the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806. For 10 points each:
Name this city. A twenty-year Truce named for this city meant to end the conflict between the Habsburgs and France was broken after only four years by the outbreak of the War of the League of Augsburg.
Contrary to usual practice, this Habsburg emperor was crowned King of the Romans in Regensburg in 1575. This alchemy-obesessed ruler was deposed by their brother Matthias and issued the Letter of Majesty, in defense of which Bohemian Protestants committed the Second Defenestration of Prague.
The Thurn and Taxis family, which represented the Emperor at the Eternal Diet, was best-known for its pioneering monopoly on this service in the Empire. Later innovations in this service include the Penny Black stamp.
Regensburg or Ratisbon
Rudolf II [prompt on Rudolf]
postal service [accept obvious equivalents; accept Kaiserliche Reichspost] &lt;AP&gt;
Differing levels of obsequiousness depending on a vassal’s location have been discerned in texts discovered near two temples of a solar deity that partially name this site. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient city, whose ruler was hailed from Sidon as ‘the king, my lord, my god, the breath of life’, but by the more distant ruler of Qatna as simply ‘the king of Egypt’.
Several letters in the Amarna correspondence concern the intrigues of rulers of this modern-day country, from which the Egyptians sourced cedar wood. One letter describes the betrayal of Zimredda of Sidon, who defected from Egypt and was denounced by Abimilku of Tyre.
Those intrigues were in part driven by the rivalry between Egypt and this kingdom after its defeat of Mitanni. One letter from Suppiluliuma, a ruler of this kingdom, to a pharaoh asks ‘my brother’ to send him four precious statues and ‘a chunk of lapis lazuli’.
Tell-e-Amarna [accept Akhetaten]
Lebanon
Hattusa [accept Hittite Empire] &lt;OSC&gt;
Answer the following about the career of Murad I, for 10 points each:
During his reign, Murad dramatically expanded the holdings of this sultanate in the Balkans and extracted tribute from the Byzantine emperor, though this dynasty was not yet able to conquer Constantinople.
This 1389 battle, a defeat for an allied Christian army led by the Serbian Prince Lazar, was Murad’s most decisive victory, though he was killed either during or just after it.
Earlier, Murad moved the Ottoman capital to this city in what is now European Turkey. The emperor Valens was killed fighting the Goths at a much earlier battle that took place outside this city.
Ottoman
Battle of Kosovo
Edirne [accept Adrianople] &lt;CJ&gt;
Daniel O’Leary’s failure to carry out an order to burn one leader’s writings after their death resulted in the preservation of dozens of love letters written to this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this revolutionary who was awarded the Order of the Sun for her role in the independence of Spanish America and who first aided the movement by spying on guests in the house of her husband, a wealthy English merchant.
Sáenz is best-known for her relationship with this other independence leader. After she helped him escape an assassination attempt in Bogotá, this man began to call her ‘the Liberator of the Liberator’.
After Bolívar’s death, Sáenz was expelled from Colombia and forbidden from returning to her birthplace. She eventually died in poverty in this country, the location of the earlier decisive Battle of Ayacucho.
Manuela Sáenz
Simón Bolívar
Peru &lt;CJ&gt;
During this period, a campaign was launched calling for the Destruction of the Four Olds. For 10 points each:
Name this period, which saw the mass distribution of the Little Red Book, and in which the Red Guards were encouraged to attack symbols of old customs, culture, habits, and ideas.
Because the composer of the PRC’s original anthem was purged during the Cultural Revolution, this song became its de facto anthem. This song, the opening number of a play and film created by Zhou Enlai, includes the lyrics ‘The Communist Party is like the sun, Wherever it shines, it is bright’.
This designated successor of Mao, who had compiled the Little Red Book and was an important player in the policies of the Cultural Revolution, was killed in a mysterious plane crash in 1971. This person, the head of the PLA, was allegedly fleeing after trying to launch a coup d’etat.
Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution
‘The East is Red’ [accept Dōngfāng Hóng]
Lin Biao &lt;OSC&gt;
Answer the following about the year 1985 in Latin America, for 10 points each:
With the election of Tancredo Neves, 1985 saw the end of the military dictatorship that had held power in Brazil since 1964, following the ‘Direct Elections Now’ protests in this most populous Brazilian city.
In the same year, the Trial of the Juntas prosecuted former members of Argentina’s right-wing military dictatorship, including this president from 1976 to 1981 who deposed Isabel Perón and disappeared many of their own citizens as part of the Dirty War.
Meanwhile, the M-19 guerrilla movement carried out an attack on this government building in Bogotá. The military’s retaking of this building the next day on the orders of President Belisario Betancur killed half of the Colombian Supreme Court.
São Paulo
Jorge Rafael Videla
Palace of Justice siege &lt;CJ&gt;
This leader sent a force to suppress the Greek War of Independence, only to have their navy destroyed at one battle by Edward Codrington. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler, who was only stopped from deposing the reigning sultan when a coalition of European powers forced them to sign the Convention of London.
Among Muhammad Ali’s more successful military campaigns were his conquest of Sudan and his war against this dynasty, in which he succeeded in destroying its first state and retaking the holy cities of Mecca and Medina.
During Muhammad Ali’s rule, a Frenchman known as Clot [cloh] Bey established a school for women in this discipline, whose graduates were known as hakimas. Enrollment was initially so low that a majority of the school’s first pupils were enslaved girls.
Muhammad Ali Pasha
Saud
medicine [anti-prompt on specific answers like obstetrics] &lt;CJ&gt;
Through his wife Philippa Roet, this person was the brother-in-law of John of Gaunt. For 10 points each:
Name this person. Comptroller of Customs in the port of London from 1374 to 1386, this person lived over Aldgate during the Peasants’ Revolt and was appointed Clerk of the King’s Works by Richard II.
Chaucer’s son Thomas was Chief Butler to four different kings and was elected to this position five times, a record not equalled until Arthur Onslow in 1754. Other holders of this position include William Lenthall, who said ‘I have neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak’ to a later king.
Chaucer’s granddaughter Alice became Duchess of Suffolk, and was so associated with the policies of this king that she was tried in effigy during Jack Cade’s Rebellion. This king, who ruled twice during the Wars of the Roses, was married to Margaret of Anjou.
Geoffrey Chaucer
Speaker of the House of Commons
Henry VI &lt;AP&gt;
Augustus’ stepson Drusus was present at the foundation of the sanctuary that brought together aristocratic individuals from three provinces of this region. For 10 points each:
That sanctuary to Rome and the Augusti was founded at Lugdunum in this region, when this region’s ‘Longhaired’ subdivision was divided into Aquitania, Lugdunensis, and Belgica.
The Sanctuary of the Three Gauls at Lugdunum was where a speech by this emperor, the son of Drusus and born in the city, was discovered inscribed on bronze. The speech, a version of which is also in Tacitus, proposed that Gaulish elites be allowed to enter the Senate.
Lugdunum was severely damaged after a huge battle outside the city between Clodius Albinus, governor of Britain, and this man, his erstwhile ally against another imperial claimant, Pescennius Niger, following the death of Pertinax. This emperor reformed the cult to focus exclusively on the Caesars.
Gallia [accept Gaul, prompt on France]
Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
Lucius Septimius Severus Augustus &lt;OSC&gt;
One country’s capital was moved from Taroudant to this city after its new rulers gained the support of the Hintata tribes in the surrounding Atlas Mountains. For 10 points each:
Name this city, where the building of the El Badi palace was funded by ransom money demanded from the Portuguese after its rulers’ victory at the Battle of Alcácer Quibir [al-KAH-ser KEE-beer].
Marrakech is a city in this country, where the Portuguese king Sebastian went missing at Alcácer Quibir.
This Moroccan dynasty established its capital at Marrakech and defeated the alliance of Sebastian and its deposed ruler Abu Abdallah Mohammed II. Succeeded by the reining Alouite dynasty, this dynasty defended Morocco from the Ottomans and defeated the Songhai empire at the Battle of Tondibi.
Marrakech
Morocco
Saadi dynasty &lt;CJ&gt;
The drafting of this document involved the testimony of men like Peter Wildeblood and Patrick Trevor-Roper, and it overturned both the Offences against the Person Act and the Labouchere Amendment. For 10 points each:
Name this 1957 paper that recommended the decriminalization of homosexuality in the U.K. It was later revealed that its namesake chairman’s son Jeremy was gay.
The Wolfenden report also considered workers in this profession, referring to them euphemistically as ‘Palmers’ and gay men as ‘Huntleys’. Unlike homosexuality, this activity was condemned by the report, and police subsequently cracked down on it after the passage of the Street Offences Act.
Twenty years after the Wolfenden report, the Programme for the Reform of the Law on Soliciting was established in 1976 to advocate for sex workers in this city, whose neighborhoods of Balsall Heath and Moseley were the location of a massive red-light district.
Wolfenden report
prostitution [accept sex work, solicitation, or other reasonable equivalents]
Birmingham &lt;CJ&gt;
This faction engaged in the ‘massacre of the Pelhamite innocents’. For 10 points each:
Name this political faction, whom Frank Gorman claimed played a significant role in the establishment of modern-day political parties in the UK. This political faction was instrumental in bringing down the government of Lord North and stood in conflict to the ‘Country Party’.
The Rockingham Whig faction originated in their opposition to this Prime Minister, who was dismissed by George III in favour of Lord Bute. This politician succeeded their brother as Prime Minister, and their namesake system advocated a return to stable alliances with European powers.
This Irish philosopher and politician was a supporter of the Rockingham Whigs. This philosopher is often seen as the father of modern British conservatism and wrote Reflections on the Revolution in France.
Rockingham Whigs [prompt on Whigs]
Duke of Newcastle [or Thomas Pelham-Holmes]
Edmund Burke &lt;GDC&gt;
This city’s government was criticized in 2018 for the poor execution of a change to its bike share scheme and earlier for a controversial law allowing cyclists to ignore red lights at traffic stops. For 10 points each:
Name this city that, as part of a wider policy to promote cycling, in 2017 opened a four-kilometer cycle lane in the Voie [VWAH] Georges-Pompidou motorway that runs along the right bank of the Seine.
This Socialist mayor of Paris has overseen a pollution-reduction initiative called Paris Breathes as part of a series of sustainability projects designed to prepare for the 2024 Olympics.
In June 2019, this other European city reversed a policy banning cars and other polluting vehicles from its center after a right-wing candidate from its country’s People’s Party won its mayoral election, defeating the incumbent who had run for a second term on the platform of ‘More’ this city.
Paris
Anne Hidalgo
Madrid &lt;CJ&gt;
This activist founded the Eagle Forum and used slogans like ‘I am for Mom and apple pie’ and ‘Stop Taking Our Privileges’ during one campaign. For 10 points each:
Name this lawyer and activist whose socially conservative stances put them at odds with second-wave feminist organizations like the National Organization of Women.
Schlafly is perhaps best-known for her efforts to defeat this legislation originally proposed by Alice Paul, which passed in Congress in 1970 but was not ratified by the states. Schlafly argued that this law would eliminate Social Security benefits for dependent wives and end women’s exemption from the draft.
Schlafly self-published A Choice Not an Echo in an effort to prevent this man from winning the 1964 Republican nomination for president. This man lost that primary to Barry Goldwater but later succeeded Gerald Ford as Vice President.
Phyllis Schlafly
Equal Rights Amendement
Nelson Rockefeller &lt;CJ&gt;
For much of the Middle Ages this industry was dominated by women, with perhaps as many as a third of all women in rural England engaging in it for profit. For 10 points each:
Name this industry. The Reinheitsgebot regulated the quality of ingredients used in this industry, and, dating back to 1516, is the oldest food standards regulation still in force.
This woman was the first person to recommend that hops be introduced as a preservative in beer, and also wrote the world’s first musical, Ordo Virtutum.
Though women could in principle be members of guilds, they were not permitted to hold offices, and were usually barred from entering into this arrangement with a master. That consequently made it quite difficult in practice for women to join guilds.
brewing
Hildegard of Bingen
apprenticeship &lt;AP&gt;
It has been speculated that John Damascene worked as an official for this dynasty, and his father Sergius was apparently head of this government’s treasury for nearly 50 years. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty, founded by Mu’awiya I. This dynasty was challenged during the Second Fitna, which ended with the death of Ibn al-Zubayr at the Siege of Mecca.
Perhaps alongside his son, Sergius was dismissed in the Arabicising reforms of this caliph. This caliph appointed Hassan ibn al-Nu’man to conquer Roman Africa, resulting in the 698 destruction of Carthage.
After his supposed administrative career, John Damascene entered the Mar Saba monastery near this city, where Abd al-Malik built the Dome of the Rock.
Umayyad
Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan ibn al-Hakam
Jerusalem &lt;AP&gt;
This event supposedly began when the deaf Black Coyote refused to give up his rifle while some tribesmen began performing the Ghost Dance. For 10 points each:
Name this December 1890 massacre of several hundred mostly unarmed Lakota by the U.S. Army near a namesake frozen creek.
The Wounded Knee massacre occurred on this reservation in South Dakota. Chief Spotted Elk, who was killed by U.S. troops, had led his band to this reservation to seek sanctuary after fleeing from nearby Standing Rock.
Spotted Elk’s band left for Pine Ridge because of the assassination at Standing Rock of this other Lakota leader, whom the federal government feared would join the Ghost Dance movement. Earlier in his life, this leader won a victory over government forces at the Crow Reservation in Montana.
Wounded Knee Massacre
Pine Ridge Indian Reservation
Sitting Bull &lt;CJ&gt;
This man is set to net a bonus of $346 million if the company of which he is CEO maintains its current stock price for the next 6 months. For 10 points each:
Name this CEO of The Boring Company, SpaceX and Tesla, who smoked marijuana on a podcast in September 2018 and tweeted that he would take his company private at $420 a share.
In November 2019 Musk announced plans to open a factory in this European capital, in the vicinity of a long-postponed new airport. Bombadier Transportation, the world’s fourth largest railway equipment manufacturer, also has its headquarters here.
Tesla is currently in talks to buy Cobalt from this controversial Swiss commodities trader. Founded by Marc Rich, it has come under fire for dealing with the government of the DRC, polluting via its mines in Zambia and Peru, and allegedly violating UN embargoes by buying oil from Saddam Hussein’s regime.
: Elon Musk
: Berlin
: Glencore Plc. [accept Glencore Xstrata) &lt;BP&gt;
Holy Roman Emperor Henry VII and his brother Baldwin, Archbishop of Trier, masterminded the rapid ascent of this family from insignificance at the turn of the fourteenth century. For 10 points each:
Name this German family that came to rule the Holy Roman Empire, Bohemia, Hungary, and Brandenburg in addition to its namesake territory. Its last Emperor, Sigismund, saw the Western Schism end.
Henry VII’s son, John ‘the Blind’ of Bohemia, was not elected Emperor, but this grandson of his was. This ruler issued the Golden Bull and remodelled Prague, also selling off many Imperial lands.
Sigismund had no male heirs, and his only daughter Elizabeth married into this family. The subsequent Luxemburg inheritance underpinned this family’s extension of power across the Empire and eventually to Spain.
House of Luxemburg
Charles IV [prompt on Charles]
House of Habsburg &lt;AP&gt;
This organisation unexpectedly succeeded in raising a large amount of money soon after it was launched at the Royal Albert Hall on 19th May 1919. For 10 points each:
Name this organisation jointly founded by Dorothy Buxton and Eglantyne Jebb in order to alleviate the starvation caused by the Allied blockade of Germany.
Jebb was partially inspired to set up Save the Children by her 1913 trip to this region. Serbia annexed this region in the First Balkan War, and their refusal to divide it with Bulgaria sparked the Second Balkan War.
Dorothy’s husband Charles Buxton survived an assassination attempt while travelling to secure Bulgarian neutrality in the First World War. Although he later became a Labour MP, Buxton was first elected as a member of this party, which won a landslide in 1906 under the leadership of Campbell-Bannerman.
Save the Children Fund
Macedonia
Liberal Party [or Liberals] &lt;AH&gt;
Swear words in this language include <em>blood claat</em>, the equivalent of the British <em>bloody</em>, and it also contains the Hindi loanword <em>ganja</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this creole language mostly of Akan origin widely spoken in Jamaica and among the Jamaican diaspora.
This form of English, mostly spoken by urban youth in Britain’s capital city, is sometimes known as ‘Jafaican’ in the press despite its well-documented roots in Cockney and South Asian as well as Caribbean slang.
Like African-American Vernacular English, this other language spoken in the Lowcountry region of the Carolinas, Georgia, and northern Florida may derive from a common ‘plantation creole’ spoken by enslaved Africans, though this creole contains far more African loanwords and personal names.
patois [pat-wah]
Multicultural London English
Gullah [accept Geechee] &lt;CJ&gt;
This judge criticised the practice by which juries can return a perverse verdict, arguing that it meant that ‘the law shall be, in every particular cause, what any twelve men […] shall be inclined to think.’ For 10 points each:
Name this judge, who ruled against the property claims of Charles Stewart in his attempt to take James Somersett back to Jamaica.
The right of juries to return perverse verdicts was confirmed in Bushel’s Case of 1670, which followed the imprisonment of a jury that had refused to convict some Quakers. Bushel petitioned for this writ reporting unlawful detention, which translates as ‘that you have the body’.
Those Quakers, who had been arrested for breaking the Conventicle Act, were William Mead and this person. This person wrote No Cross, No Crown in the Tower of London, died bankrupt, and was buried in the Jordans Burial Ground.
William Murray, Lord Mansfield [accept either]
habeas corpus
William Penn &lt;AP&gt;
This city declined in importance after King Harsha of the Vardhana dynasty established his capital at nearby Kanauj in the seventh century. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient Indian city, the capital of the Maurya and Gupta dynasties. This city became one of the largest in the world under the Mauryas and was visited by the Greek ambassador Megasthenes.
King Harsha’s court was visited by this Chinese monk and traveler, who was sent to India in search of the original versions of Buddhist texts. This man’s trip was fictionalized in Journey to the West.
Though Harsha’s court records describe him as a Hindu, Xuanzang’s chronicle asserts that he was a Buddhist who built thousands of stupas along the banks of this sacred Indian river.
Pataliputra
Xuanzang
Ganges &lt;CJ&gt;
Louis Slotin died as a result of the two halves of this object coming together after the screwdriver he was using to hold them apart slipped in his hand. For 10 points each:
Name this specific object. Intended for a potential third bomb on Japan, an accident involving it had earlier killed Harry Daghlian, and the Slotin incident put an end to criticality experiments being done by hand.
Those accidents took place at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, the site of most of the research for this project, which culminated in the ‘Trinity’ test.
While at Cambridge, this other member of the Manhattan Project attempted to kill Patrick Blackett with a poisoned apple. This person had a relationship with Jean Tatlock and was described as ‘among the second rank of American physicists’ in the Borden letter, which denounced them as an agent of the Soviet Union.
the demon core [accept ‘Rufus’]
Manhattan Project [prompt on ‘atomic bomb project’]
Julius Robert Oppenheimer [prompt on Oppenheimer] &lt;AP&gt;
Reasonable Blackman, who had a business trading in this good in the late sixteenth century, is one of the earliest-known financially independent people of African heritage in England. For 10 points each:
Name this good. James I made an unsuccessful attempt to introduce it to England, as part of the gradual European move away from dependence on the trade of its namesake ‘Road’.
The only Tudor portrait of a known African is of John Blanke, depicted on a painted roll playing the trumpet at one of these events, which had been called to celebrate the birth of Henry VIII’s son, who lived only days past its conclusion.
People of colour could also be useful allies, as when Francis Drake allied with these people to raid across the Panama Isthmus. These people were escaped slaves resisting the Spanish alongside the native population.
silk
tournament [accept joust]
cimarrons &lt;AP&gt;
In 1396, one of these animals spent 146 days in the prison of the Norman town of Pont-de-l’Arche for eating a child. For 10 points each:
Name these animals. The most common animals publicly executed in the Middle Ages, these animals were also iconographically associated with bagpipes, despite bagpipes almost never being made from them.
For an execution, communities were expected to provide these pieces of clothing for the executioner. The giving of one of these items of clothing from a lord to a vassal was often a symbol of accepting homage, and gauntlets are armoured examples of them.
Many of the surviving records of animal executions come from the Chambre des comptes of this region of eastern France. Centred on the city of Dijon, its duke John the Fearless was assassinated on the Bridge of Montereau in 1419.
pigs
gloves
Burgundy &lt;AP&gt;
Some of the victims of this event were driven into the Omaheke Desert after losing the Battle of Waterberg, while others were subjected to forced labor and experimentation on Shark Island. For 10 points each:
Name this 1905-1908 event that attempted to exterminate the peoples of the coastal and southern areas of one modern-day country after a series of failed rebellions against German colonial rule.
The Herero-Nama genocide was perpetrated in this modern-day country, then known as German South West Africa. Windhoek [VIND-heck] has been the capital of this country since its independence from South Africa in 1990.
Another rebellion against German imperial rule in Africa was this nearly simultaneous one in German East Africa, in which the spiritual leader Bokero gave his followers a namesake mixture of water, castor oil, and millet seeds that he told them would turn German bullets into water.
Herero-Nama genocide
Namibia
Maji Maji Rebellion &lt;CJ&gt;
Cimon [Ki-MOAN] of Athens, the <em>proxenos</em> of this city, showed his admiration for it by naming one of his sons in honour of it. For 10 points each:
Name this city, to which Cimon was sent to help by Athens following an earthquake and subsequent revolt of its helots, who fortified themselves on Mt Ithome in Messenia.
Lacedaemonius, that son of Cimon, was involved in the preliminary skirmishes of the Peloponnesian War fought between the island of Corcyra and this other Greek city, which, according to Thucydides, urged the Spartans to declare war on the Athenians.
Plutarch tells the story that Cimon dedicated his bridle at the Acropolis to show his support for Themistocles prior to this battle earlier in his career. Cimon’s death was hidden from his forces to keep morale high prior to a battle at a city in Cyprus with this name.
Sparta
Corinth
Salamis &lt;OSC&gt;
In honor of the 2019 general election, we momentarily interrupt this quiz bowl tournament to bring you a preview of the long-awaited Constituency Bowl. For 10 points each:
One of the few bright spots for Labour in the election was holding this seat in Kent. Rosie Duffield enlarged her margin of victory in this constituency from 187 votes in 2017 to nearly 2,000.
An first sign on election night of the crumbling of the ‘red wall’ in the north of England was a Tory victory in this seat in Northumberland, which had voted Labour in every election since its creation in 1950.
In Northern Ireland, the Alliance Party’s only success was this traditionally wealthy, unionist seat, where Stephen Farry pulled off a surprising victory over the DUP. Before the election, this constituency had been represented by Sylvia Hermon, the only Independent in Northern Ireland.
Canterbury
Blyth Valley [prompt on Blyth]
North Down &lt;CJ&gt;
With the input of scholars like Claude Levi-Strauss, this institution released a much-criticized statement known as <em>The Race Question</em> in 1950, and undertook the Nubian Campaign a decade later. For 10 points each:
Name this institution that needed more than thirty years to complete its ambitious and monumental History of Mankind project.
A scientist from this family was appointed UNESCO’s first Director-General and feuded with Lucian Febvre over the History of Mankind project. Another scientist from this family was the man known as ‘Darwin’s bulldog’.
One of Huxley’s allies in the early stages of the History of Mankind was Joseph Needham, best known for his studies on the science and technology of this country. In 2004, the ongoing encyclopedia project begun by Needham stopped using the Wade-Giles system to transliterate this country’s pictographic writing system.
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization [prompt on United Nations]
Huxley (Julian, Aldous, and Thomas Henry)
China [accept Zhongguo] &lt;CJ&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following Inca rulers:
This last Sapa Inca filled one room with gold and two with silver in an attempt to ransom themselves from Francisco Pizarro after being captured at Cajamarca [ca-ha-MAR-ca]. They were nevertheless executed.
This father of Atahualpa married the queen of the Quito Confederacy and was served by generals like Quizquiz. He probably died of smallpox while on campaign and left most of the empire to Huáscar.
Nearly forty years after Atahualpa’s death, the Spanish declared war on this final ruler of the Neo-Inca state, hunting down and killing them in 1572. The leader of an eighteenth-century rebellion by indigenous people considered this man their ancestor and called themselves the second ruler of this name.
Atahualpa
Huayna Capac
Túpac Amaru I [prompt on partial answers] &lt;CJ&gt;
Some of the most vicious combat in this campaign was seen during the engagement known as the Battle of the Tennis Court. For 10 points each:
Name this theatre of the Second World War where Operation U-Go was halted in two fierce battles in 1944 when infiltration tactics and encirclement were rendered ineffective by air supply to the defenders, while many of the attacking force’s 50,000-plus casualties were caused by malnutrition and malaria.
The Allied victories at the Battles of Kohima and Imphal were the turning point in the Burma Campaign, whose final stages in May 1945 included Operation Dracula, an amphibious assault to retake this colonial capital of Burma.
This leader, later Governor-General of Australia, commanded Commonwealth forces in Burma. Described as ‘the finest general World War Two produced’, this man was noted for the loyalty he inspired in his men, with the image of ‘a rather scruffy private with a general’s tabs’.
Burma Campaign
Rangoon [accept Yangon]
Field Marshal William ‘Bill’ Slim &lt;OSC&gt;
One member of this group was known as the ‘thief of Tushino’ and was killed by the Tatar Peter Urusov after most of their supporters defected upon the approach of Sigismund III. For 10 points each:
Give the collective name of these three figures, the first of whom married the Polish princess Marina Mniszech [muh-NEE-zhech] and was killed after jumping out the window of a Moscow bathhouse.
This regent of Russia probably assassinated the real Dmitry and later became tsar. The first False Dmitry deposed this man’s son Feodor II and held his daughter Xenia prisoner as a concubine.
In order to defeat the second False Dmitry and relieve the Polish siege of Smolensk, Russia allied with this country, which sent a force under the command of Jacob de la Gardie. De la Gardie later served as one of the regents for this country’s queen Christina.
False Dmitrys [accept impostors pretending to be Dmitry Ivanovich or reasonable equivalents]
Boris Godunov
Sweden &lt;CJ&gt;
Recent discoveries at the village of Foremark support 20<sup>th</sup>-century excavations around Repton that provide material evidence of this force’s encampment in the winter of 873. For 10 points each:
Name this expedition, whose leaders the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle names as Hingwar and Hubba. That pair may actually be Ivar the Boneless and Ubba, as recorded in Old Norse sources about the sons of the legendary Ragnar Lothbrok.
Following their encampment at Repton, the Army advanced on this Anglo-Saxon kingdom, where, according to the Chronicle, its king Burgred fled in exile to Rome, and was replaced by a puppet, ‘Ceolwulf, an unwise king's thane’.
After the conquest of Mercia, the Army is reported to have split into two, with the southern portion led by this man. Despite his early successes against Alfred the Great, this man was defeated at the Battle of Edington and converted to Christianity after negotiating peace with the Treaty of Wedmore.
Great Heathen Army
Mercia
Guthrum &lt;OSC&gt;
Victory at the Battle of Guadalete resulted in the capture of this city by Ṭariq ibn Ziyad. For 10 points each:
Name this city. The capital of the Visigothic kingdom of Spain, it was displaced by Seville and then Cordoba as the centre of al-Andalus.
This person was the last Visigothic king to rule from Toledo, apparently usurping the throne from Achila II and ruling from 710 until his death at Guadalete about two years later.
A 739-43 revolt of these nomadic North African people, who had made up the majority of the Umayyad army, precipitated the withdrawal of Umayyad forces from northern Spain, allowing the survival of the Kingdom of Asturias.
Toledo
Roderick [accept Rodrigo]
Berbers [prompt on Moors] &lt;AP&gt;
This party’s support collapsed in an election prompted in part by the warnings of a committee led by Sir George May. For 10 points each:
Name this party, defeated in a landslide by the National Government in 1931. The split in this party was driven by its leader, Ramsay MacDonald, forming a coalition with Stanley Baldwin’s Conservatives.
After MacDonald’s expulsion from the party, he was succeeded as Labour leader by this politician, who had been Foreign Secretary. This leader lost 235 seats in the 1931 election, including his own of Burnley, and was in turn succeeded by George Lansbury.
This politician, who had resigned from the Labour government after the rejection of their namesake Memorandum by the fiscally conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1930, formed the New Party and unsuccessfully stood in Stoke-on-Trent in 1931.
Labour Party
Arthur Henderson
Sir Oswald Mosley &lt;OSC&gt;
It is plausible that this ruler hired the military architect Master James of Saint George in Savoy while returning from the Eighth and Ninth Crusades. For 10 points each:
Name this King of England, who employed James in the construction of castles such as Conwy and Harlech following their conquest of the Principality of Wales.
The bands of coloured stone and polygonal walls of this Welsh castle, the birthplace of Edward II, may have been inspired by the walls of Constantinople. This castle’s location near the Roman fort of Segontium built upon Welsh legends of Constantine and Macsen Wledig [MAX-en wuh-LED-ig].
While still under construction, Caernarfon was captured and burned by Madog, a distant cousin of this Prince of Wales, who before their final rebellion signed the Treaty of Aberconwy with Edward and married Elisabeth, daughter of Simon de Montfort
Edward I [prompt on Edward; accept Longshanks; accept Hammer of the Scots]
Caernarfon
Llywelyn ap Gruffudd [accept Llewellyn the Last, Llywelyn Ein Llyw Olaf, or Llywelyn II; prompt on Llywelyn] &lt;OSC&gt;
This dynasty’s navy raided several cities of the Srivijaya empire and invaded the Maldives under its king Rajaraja I. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian dynasty that also made major contributions to art and architecture such as the Brihadishvara Temple, with its large gopuram, or gateway, built on the banks of the Kaveri River.
The Chola was a dynasty of this South Indian people, with its heartland mostly contained within a namesake modern state. Some of this language’s Five Great Epics were composed during the long period of Chola rule.
The ‘Three Crowned rulers’ of the Tamils were the kings of the Chola, Chera, and this other dynasty centered at Madurai, which eventually allied with the Chera and the Sinhala of Sri Lanka to supplant Chola influence.
Chola dynasty
Tamil
Pandya dynasty &lt;CJ&gt;
Herodotus and Aristotle tell the same tale about two individuals of this class, but with their roles reversed. For 10 points each:
Name this class of Greek rulers who seized power through extra-legal means, exemplified by men such as Periander of Corinth and Thrasybulus of Miletus.
Claims deriving ‘tyrant’ from the language of this kingdom are uncertain, but the first Greek use of the term was applied by the poet Archilochus to Gyges, ruler of this Anatolian kingdom. Herodotus suggests that Thrasybulus secured peace with another king of this kingdom, Alyattes.
Herodotus’ interest in tyrants also led to him relating many stories about Polycrates, who ruled this island in the sixth century. Under his rule, Pythagoras left this island as an exile and moved to Croton.
tyrants [accept tyrannoi]
Lydia
Samos &lt;OSC&gt;
Ironically, the citadel of this city had been designed by French engineers seventy years prior to its assault by a combined Franco-Spanish force. For 10 points each:
Name this city that, after its capture by Admiral de Genouilly, withstood an 11-month siege by 10,000 men from 1860-61 before its relief by the French Far East Squadron and victory at the Battle of Ky Hoa [KEE hwa].
The Siege of Saigon was a major battle in the conflict between France and the fourth emperor of this Vietnamese dynasty, who had closed off his country from Western and Christian influences, unlike the founder of this dynasty, Gia Long [JEE-ah Long]
Twenty years after the conquest of Cochinchina, the French launched a campaign to capture this region, now part of northern Vietnam. The Gulf of this region names a later, exaggerated incident involving the USS Maddox in 1964.
Saigon
Nguyen [there are many pronunciations of this name, be generous]
Tonkin &lt;OSC&gt;
This unit played a major role in the counter-attack during the Battle of Tereul, despite temperatures reaching -18 degrees Celsius. For 10 points each:
Name this unit, commanded by Hugo Sperlle. Its success in winning air superiority and acting as close air support were major factors in victories at Bilbao and Santander, ending the War in the North.
Unlike the Condor Legion’s most notorious bombing campaign against Guernica, which did not deliberately target civilians, Italian planes based on Mallorca carried out three days of terror bombing in March 1938 on this city, which became the Republican capital after the government evacuated Valencia.
A few days after the bombing of Guernica, this event saw street fighting in Barcelona between the forces of the Republican and Catalonian governments on the one side, and the anarcho-syndicalist CNT-FAI Union and anti-Stalinist POUM on the other.
Condor Legion
Barcelona
May Days [May Days, May Events, Jornadas de Mayo, Sucesos de Mayo, Hechos de Mayo] &lt;OSC&gt;
This state’s traditional beef fry has been embraced by some of its politicians as a symbol of its traditional culture and opposition to the national government. For 10 points each:
Name this Malayalam-speaking Indian state, promoted as ‘God’s Own Country’ for its natural beauty and high level of development, including a strong record on gender equality and transgender rights.
Kerala borders this smallest Indian state by area. Residents of this state generally support using the Roman alphabet to write its Konkani language, which has been threatened by bilingualism with English and Marathi.
Nearly 20% of Kerala’s population is Christian, mostly the indigenous St. Thomas Christians and the members of this church, a legacy of the state’s Portuguese colonization. In 2019, Pope Francis acknowledged that this church had not done enough to protect Indian nuns from sexual assault by bishops.
Kerala
Goa
Roman Catholic Church &lt;CJ&gt;
One member of this family, Eleanor, married Sigismund of Austria and was a noted translator. For 10 points each:
Name this family. Its first ruling member was Robert II, while Eleanor’s father was assassinated in a sewer under Blackfriars monastery by the Earl of Atholl.
In the unstable period that followed Robert’s death, one of his 27 children, Alexander, known as the ‘Wolf of Badenoc’, burned this royal burgh and its cathedral when its bishop turned to Thomas Dunbar for protection instead.
The Stewarts commissioned John Barbour to inflate their own role in the wars of Scottish independence in his poem about this king, which mostly focuses on his victory at the Battle of Bannockburn.
Stewart
Elgin
Robert I the Bruce [prompt on partial answers] &lt;AP&gt;
Geoffrey Blainey characterized this debate as changing the ‘Three Cheers’ to a ‘black armband’ view, and it was seen as entering public discourse in the 1990s with the Redfern Park Speech and the <em>Bringing Them Home</em> report. For 10 points each:
Give this collective name for the often-heated ongoing scholarly and public debate about the colonization and post-colonial society of a certain country.
Unlike their predecessor Paul Keating, this Liberal Prime Minister took a softer approach to the history wars, declining to make a Parliamentary apology to Aboriginal Australians and resuming the tradition of traveling to Gallipoli for ANZAC Day.
Historian Keith Windschuttle angered both sides in the history wars by arguing against labeling the Black War in this Australian state a genocide or deliberate campaign of warfare by the British. This island state was at the time of the war known as ‘Van Diemen’s Land’.
Australian history wars [prompt on culture wars]
John Howard
Tasmania &lt;CJ&gt;
According to an anecdote ascribed to Lord Palmerston, ‘Only three people have ever really understood’ the political question named for these two places. For 10 points each:
Name these two duchies disputed by the German Confederation and the Kingdom of Denmark. The complexity of the question around these two duchies was in part due to their use of Salic Law, unlike the Kingdom of Denmark.
The second war over Schlesvig-Holstein was prompted by the signing of the November Constitution, merging Schleswig with the Danish crown, by this monarch, the first of the House of Glücksburg.
This Prussian commander was first able to test his theories of warfare, characterised by breech-loaded guns, railway transport, and the General Staff, in the Second Schleswig War. Their nephew devised the Schlieffen Plan for World War I.
Schleswig-Holstein
Christian IX
Helmuth von Moltke the Elder [prompt on von Moltke] &lt;OSC&gt;
Al-Bakri described the tradition of rulers of this empire being succeeded by their sister’s sons, and the refusal of its king Tunka Manin to convert to Islam is said to have prompted an invasion by Abu Bakr ibn Umar. For 10 points each:
Name this early West African empire that declined after a sack by the Almoravids.
This city in present-day Mauretania is believed to have been the capital of the Ghana empire. It was described as actually consisting of two towns 10 kilometers apart, one of which was inhabited by Muslims and contained twelve mosques.
Koumbi-Saleh was a hub of the trade in salt and this other commodity, which the introduction of the camel made it possible to transport more easily across the Sahara. The Wangara people were known as experts in the procurement of this precious metal.
Ghana [accept Wagadou]
Koumbi-Saleh
gold &lt;CJ&gt;
The early 1970s saw the formal introduction of a Latin alphabet in this country, replacing both Arabic script and locally developed systems such as Osmanya and Borama. For 10 points each:
Name this country, where the Supreme Revolutionary Council promoted ‘Scientific Socialism’ and was led by Siad Barre [BAR-ey]. In the 1980s, tens of thousands of members of the Issaq clan in the north of this country were massacred.
Barre, who ruled Somalia from 1969, was seriously injured in a car crash in this city in 1986. As his rule collapsed in 1990, he was mockingly called the ‘mayor of’ this city, Somalia’s capital.
A major turning point in Siad’s time as ruler was the utter failure of this conflict, named for the region of Ethiopia that Somali forces attempted to conquer. The Soviets chose to back Ethiopia over Somalia in this war, providing aid including the airlift of thousands of Cuban troops.
Somalia
Mogadishu
Ogaden War &lt;OSC&gt;
Heather Ann Thompson’s book <em>Blood in the Water</em> criticized this man for ordering Russell G. Oswald to use tear gas against rioting prisoners in Attica State Prison. For 10 points each:
Name this governor of New York who said that he felt “what Truman must have felt when he decided to drop the A-bomb” when he ordered the forceful retaking of Attica.
The Attica riots were sparked by the death of Black Panther George Jackson at this infamous prison in Marin County, California. Other notable inmates at this prison included Eldridge Cleaver and Sirhan Sirhan.
Neal Cassady served two years in San Quentin for possession of this substance, whose prohibition was the target of Harry Anslinger’s scare campaign. It was demonized by the 1936 film Reefer Madness.
Nelson Rockefeller [or Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller]
San Quentin State Prison
cannabis [or marijuana; or pot; or weed; or ganja; or bud] &lt;American History&gt;
The main female protagonist of <em>Hiroshima, mon amour</em> (“mon ah-MOOR”) is revealed to have endured this historical punishment. For 10 points each:
Name this type of public humiliation that women who engaged in “horizontal collaboration” with Nazi soldiers often underwent in the postwar period.
Women who engaged in “horizontal collaboration” slept with Nazis during their occupation of this country, which was partially ruled by the collaborationist Vichy (“VEE-shee”) regime.
Post-war reprisals also included the execution of this editor of the anti-Semitic newspaper Je suis partout (“zhuh swee par-TOO”). He became a cause célèbre (“cause suh-LEB-ruh”) among French intellectuals, with Paul Valéry and Albert Camus (“all-BAIR kah-MOO”) signing a petition to commute his sentence, but was executed anyway.
shaving their heads [or haircut; accept any answer involving cutting off hair]
France [or the French Republic; or République française]
Robert Brasillach (“ro-BAIR bra-zee-YAHK”) &lt;European History&gt;
Inhabitants of villages near Sanjiang (“san-jyong”) in modern-day Zhejiang (“juh-jyong”) Province were forbidden from stepping on dry land for supporting the loser of this battle. For 10 points each:
Name this large naval battle in 1363 during the Red Turban Rebellion. The future Hongwu Emperor defeated the forces of Chen Youliang (“chun yo-lyong”) in this battle.
The Hongwu Emperor was the first emperor of this dynasty, whose Yongle (“yong-luh”) Emperor sent the naval expeditions of Zheng He (“jung huh”).
The emperors of the Ming Dynasty, including its founder Yuanzhang (“y’wen-jong”), had this familial name. A later general with this family name was the first commander-in-chief of the People’s Liberation Army.
Battle of Lake Poyang
Ming Dynasty
Zhu (“joo”) [accept Zhu De] &lt;World History&gt;
Supposedly, the only person to survive a disastrous retreat from this city was the surgeon William Brydon. For 10 points each:
Name this city. Lord Elphinstone’s army was massacred by the Wazir Akbar Khan’s forces while fleeing this city in 1842.
The massacre of Elphinstone’s army was part of the Great Game, a struggle for control over Central Asia between Britain and this other imperial power.
In 1919, this other British officer in the Anglo-Afghan Wars ordered troops to fire into a crowd of Indians gathered in the Jallianwala Bagh public garden.
Kabul
Russian Empire
Reginald Dyer [or Reginald Edward Harry Dyer] &lt;British History&gt;
While being dragged away, a commander of this location reportedly kicked a pastry chef in the groin, prompting a mob to kill him. For 10 points each:
Name this armory whose storming on July 14, 1789, set the French Revolution into motion.
The day after the storming of the Bastille, this man was appointed head of the National Guard to try to restore order. This man’s popularity took a downturn after he ordered his troops to fire on a large crowd gathered on the Champ de Mars (“shom duh marce”).
Along with Lafayette, Jean Sylvain Bailly (“zhahn seel-VAN bah-YEE”), who held this position, was held responsible for the Champ de Mars massacre. This position was abolished from 1871 to 1977, which is when Jacques Chirac was chosen to fill this position.
the Bastille
Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette [accept either underlined portion]
mayor of Paris [or Maire de Paris; or provost of Paris] &lt;European History&gt;
According to legend, this ruler from the House of Palaeologus was turned to marble and buried so that one day he could return and reconquer his city. For 10 points each:
Name this last Byzantine emperor. Rather than being turned to marble, he probably actually died fighting the invading armies of Mehmed II.
Before becoming emperor, Constantine ruled this despotate that encompassed much of the Peloponnese peninsula whose capital was Mystras.
Constantine’s niece Zoe Palaeologus married a ruler with this name who confronted the Golden Horde at the Great Stand on the Ugra. That ruler’s son of the same name was given the name Grozny, or “the Terrible.”
Constantine XI (“the eleventh”) [or Constantine XI Dragases; prompt on Constantine]
Despotate of the Morea
Ivan [accept Ivan III; accept Ivan IV; accept Ivan the Great; accept Ivan the Terrible; accept Ivan Grozny] &lt;European History&gt;
Mary Musgrove served as an interpreter between this man and Tomochichi, the chief of the Yamacraw Indians. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose forces defeated the Spanish at the Battle of Bloody Marsh. Methodism founders John and Charles Wesley traveled to a colony that this man founded at his request.
Because of Oglethorpe’s victory at the Battle of Bloody Marsh, this colony that he founded as an alternative to debtor’s prisons would stay safe from Spanish raids from nearby Florida.
The Battle of Bloody Marsh was part of this larger conflict between England and Spain. In a larger battle in this conflict, the Spanish repulsed an English amphibious attack on the port city of Cartagena de Indias (“car-tah-HAY-nah day EEN-dee-ahss”).
James Oglethorpe
Georgia
War of Jenkins’ Ear [do not accept or prompt on “War of the Austrian Succession”] &lt;American History&gt;
Edward Paget put down this event, led by Bindee Tiwari, that led to the death of over 200 non-violent protesters. For 10 points each:
Name this revolt of sepoys that occurred in 1824. It was triggered when sepoys were forced to carry their own supplies for the invasion of Burma because of a lack of cattle.
The sepoys were employed by this organization that controlled India until the Sepoy Rebellion of 1857.
Barrackpore is now part of this modern-day Indian city that was once called Fort William under British rule. In 1756, 164 prisoners of Siraj ud-Daulah were imprisoned in an overcrowded dungeon in this city for three days.
Barrackpore Mutiny
British East India Company [or Honorable East India Company; accept Company Bahadur or John Company; prompt on East India Company]
Calcutta [or Kolkata; accept Black Hole of Calcutta] &lt;World History&gt;
The British used the Yamasee and Cherokee to fight this tribe in their namesake war from 1711 to 1715. For 10 points each:
Name this Native American tribe whose Chief Blount migrated this tribe north after killing the leader of its southern branch, Chief Hancock. Members of this tribe who stayed behind settled on reserved land in present-day Bertie County.
Before their northwards migration, the Tuscarora were based in this colony. The Roanoke colony was established on land that became part of this colony.
This uprising in North Carolina from 1765 to 1771 was fought against colonial officials such as governor William Tryon. It is often viewed as a precursor to the American Revolution.
Tuscarora [accept Tuscarora War]
North Carolina [or NC]
War of the Regulation [accept Regulator Movement] &lt;American History&gt;
This ruler signed the “Eternal Peace” with Khosrau I. For 10 points each:
Name this Byzantine emperor, the husband of Theodora. He put down the Nika Revolts.
This historian from Caesarea wrote a “Secret History” of Justinian’s reign, which probably exaggerated or made up many atrocities that Justinian supposedly committed.
Justinian’s reign is considered to be part of this two-word historical period from 150 to 750 AD. It was popularized by a 1971 Peter Brown book that discusses this period as the transition between the ancient and medieval worlds.
Justinian
Procopius
late antiquity [accept The World of Late Antiquity] &lt;Ancient History&gt;
One of these institutions named San Diego de Alcalá (“all-kah-LAH”) was built on the land of the Kumeyaay (“koo-mee-eye”) people. For 10 points each:
Name these Spanish religious outposts in California, the first of which were founded by Junípero Serra (“hoo-NEE-pay-roh SAIR-ah”).
Serra was assisted in his mission-founding exploits by this Spanish governor of California, who led the first exploration up California’s coast and into its interior in 1769 and 1770. San Francisco Bay was first sighted by this man’s expedition.
The Portolà expedition founded this capital of Alta California under Spanish and Mexican rule. John Sloat captured this city in 1846 during the Mexican-American War, claiming California for the United States.
Spanish missions in California [or misiones]
Gaspar de Portolà [or Gaspar de Portolà y Rovira]
Monterey &lt;American History&gt;
Answer the following about the South Sea Bubble, for 10 points each.
One consequence of the South Sea Bubble was this man’s rise to power as the first British Prime Minister.
This Chancellor of the Exchequer was forced to resign for his role in the South Sea Bubble. This man was a strong supporter of the plan for the South Sea Company to take over the national debt in exchange for government bonds.
The failure of the South Sea Company led to the pre-eminence of this institution, often called “the old lady of Threadneedle Street.” George Soros was known as the man who “broke” this institution after he short-sold 10 billion dollars in pounds on Black Wednesday.
Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford
John Aislabie (“AYZ-luh-bee”)
Bank of England &lt;British History&gt;
In January 2019, this politician declared “Trans rights are civil rights are human rights” during an appearance on a charity stream of <em>Donkey Kong 64</em> run by British YouTube personality Hbomberguy. For 10 points each:
Name this democratic socialist representative of New York’s 14th congressional district, the youngest woman ever to serve in Congress.
Ocasio-Cortez pulled off a stunning upset in her campaign against this ten-term incumbent, who was at the time the Chair of the House Democratic Caucus.
In the general election, Crowley was still on the ballot as the nominee of the Women’s Equality Party and this other New York-based minor left-wing party, despite its executive director Dan Cantor explicitly endorsing Ocasio-Cortez.
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez [or AOC]
Joe Crowley [or Joseph Crowley]
Working Families Party [or WFP] &lt;Current Events&gt;
Answer the following about the 26th of July Movement, for 10 points each.
The 26th of July Movement overthrew this dictator, whose regime killed tens of thousands of people while giving away his country’s key industries and resources to the United States.
The 26th of July Movement was led by this man, who took power after the fall of Batista. He would rule Cuba for the next fifty or so years, before passing power to his brother Raúl.
Castro gave his “History Will Absolve Me” speech after a failed assault on this military location. Castro’s revolutionary movement later took its name from the date this attack occurred, July 26th, 1953.
Fulgencio Batista [or Fulgencio Batista y Zaldívar; or Rubén Zaldívar]
Fidel Castro [or Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz]
Moncada Barracks &lt;World History&gt;
This program was presented in a speech given at the University of Michigan in 1964. For 10 points each:
Name this set of wide-ranging programs launched by Lyndon B. Johnson that was intended to improve education, healthcare, and housing, among other concerns.
These items were required to have warning labels by a Great Society law passed in 1965. Luther Terry was instrumental in raising awareness of the risks of these items.
This Secretary of the Interior under Kennedy and Johnson played a key role in enacting the conservation laws of the Great Society, including the Wilderness Act.
Great Society
cigarettes [prompt on tobacco products]
Stewart Udall [or Stewart Lee Udall] &lt;American History&gt;
During this battle, soldiers used stormtrooper tactics and poisonous gas shells to break the Italian lines. For 10 points each:
Name this disastrous defeat for Italian forces during World War I. It was the twelfth battle along the Isonzo River.
The Italian forces at the Battle of Caporetto were led by this general, whose failure led him to be replaced by Armando Diaz. His father Raffaele captured Rome in 1870.
The Battle of Caporetto led to the appointment of Vittorio Orlando, who represented Italy as one of the “Big Four” at this peace conference.
Battle of Caporetto [accept Battle of Karfreit]
Luigi Cadorna
Versailles Peace Conference [or Paris Peace Conference] &lt;European History&gt;
P. V. Narasimha Rao was responsible for the end of this system. For 10 points each:
Name this complex system of regulations and bureaucracy in India from independence until 1990. It has often been blamed for the lethargic “Hindu rate of growth.”
The License Raj was a result of this first Prime Minister of India’s desire to implement socialism. He gave the “Tryst with Destiny” speech on the eve of India’s independence.
Nehru was a co-founder of this group along with Josip Broz Tito and others in 1961. Nehru’s “five rules of peaceful co-existence,” or panchsheel (“punch-sheel”), were a basis for this group, which opposed hegemony and imperialism.
License Raj [or Permit Raj; do not accept or prompt on just “Raj”]
Jawaharlal Nehru
Non-Aligned Movement [or NAM] &lt;World History&gt;
A ruler of this city named Sous refused to give up his conquests because he had not drunk from a spring, though all his men had. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose laws were legendarily established by Lycurgus.
Lycurgus implemented the agoge, which forced every Spartan male to join this institution.
Lycurgus also established this Spartan council of elders. It was formed of 28 men over the age of 60 plus the two Spartan kings.
Sparta [accept Lacedaemon]
the military [accept the army]
gerousia &lt;Ancient History&gt;
This leader escaped to Libya by helicopter when his country’s capital fell in 1979. For 10 points each:
Name this former dictator who expelled all Asians from his country and made a dubious claim to the crown of Scotland.
Idi Amin was overthrown when Julius Nyerere, the president of this country, invaded Uganda. This country was formed from the merger of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
The overthrow of Idi Amin was the culmination of a war which resulted from Uganda’s attempt to annex this northwestern region of Tanzania.
Idi Amin [or Idi Amin Dada Oumee]
Tanzania
Kagera Region [or West Lake Region] &lt;World History&gt;
This ruler won the 955 Battle of Lechfeld against the Magyars. For 10 points each:
Name this first Holy Roman Emperor after Charlemagne.
Otto was the son of a king of this name who was nicknamed “the Fowler.” A Holy Roman Emperor of this name walked to Canossa after being excommunicated by Gregory VII.
Henry II signed the Peace of Bautzen with this Polish king, who captured Kiev to install his son-in-law Sviatopolk the Accursed as king. He was the son of Mieszko I (“m’YESH-ko the first”), the first Christian king of Poland.
Otto I [or Otto the Great; prompt on Otto]
Henry [accept Henry the Fowler; accept Henry IV]
Bołeslaw I [or Bołeslaw the Brave; or Bołeslaw Chrobry; prompt on Boleslaw] &lt;European History&gt;
This body was formed as a reaction to Peter the Great’s comparison of Russia to the rest of Europe. For 10 points each:
Identify this body that was formed by Peter in 1721 and was the highest governing body of the Russian Eastern Orthodox church until 1918.
The Most Holy Synod was replaced by the return of the Patriarchate of Moscow, which is currently led by this man. Political opponents often accuse him of cozying up to the Putin regime.
The first patriarch of Moscow, installed in 1589, was this man, who shares his name with a Biblical figure subjected to torment by God to test his faith.
Most Holy Synod (“SIN-uhd”)
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow [or Cyril; or Vladimir Mikhailovich Gundyayev]
Job of Moscow [or Iov] &lt;Religion&gt;
California State Route 13 in Oakland was named after this man in 1957. For 10 points each:
Name this governor of California who later became Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. He was Chief Justice during the Brown v. Board case.
Warren was the running mate of this Governor of New York during his presidential run. This man lost votes from Southern voters after Strom Thurmond broke away from the Democratic Party.
The first recorded debate between presidential candidates took place during the 1948 Republican primaries between Thomas Dewey and this man, who ran for president seven more times. In that debate, Dewey told him “you can’t shoot an idea with a gun” after he proposed banning the Communist party in the United States.
Earl Warren
Thomas Dewey [or Thomas Edmund Dewey]
Harold Stassen &lt;American History&gt;
The economic success of agricultural reforms implemented by this man in Abasha helped propel his political career. For 10 points each:
Name this politician known as the “Silver Fox” who was ousted in 2003 after mass protests sparked by accusations of electoral fraud. He was also Minister of Foreign Affairs under Mikhail Gorbachev.
Shevardnadze was president of this former Soviet Republic and was forced to resign after its Rose Revolution.
This ethnic Georgian led the Soviet Union during World War II. He purged millions of political enemies during the 1930s.
Eduard Shevardnadze [or Eduard Ambrosiyevich Shevardnadze]
Georgia [or Republic of Georgia]
Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Dzhugashvili] &lt;European History&gt;
The first usage of this word comes from a Count of Anjou named Geoffrey, and it is probably derived from a word for a broom. For 10 points each:
Name this royal house of England that included the Angevins. Henry II was the first of this house to rule England.
The other two cadet branches of the House of Plantagenet were the Houses of Lancaster and York, who fought for control in this 15th-century war that ended with the Battle of Bosworth Field.
Following the Tudor victory at Bosworth, a Yorkist uprising broke out two years later when this man attempted to place Lambert Simnel on the throne. He was killed at the Battle of Stoke.
House of Plantagenet
Wars of the Roses
John de la Pole, 1st Earl of Lincoln &lt;British History&gt;
The oldest known name for this country is Wo, which translates to “dwarf.” For 10 points each:
Name this country whose prehistoric periods include the Jomon and Yayoi periods.
Japan is first mentioned in historical documents from this dynasty, which was interrupted by the rule of Wang Mang’s (“wong mong’s”) Xin (“shin”) Dynasty. China’s majority ethnic group is named after this dynasty.
This period of Japanese history following the Yayoi period is named after giant keyhole-shaped burial mounds.
Japan [or Nihon or Nippon]
Han Dynasty
Kofun period &lt;World History&gt;
The Plastic People of the Universe was a protest band formed in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose government’s human rights abuses were criticized in Charter 77. Earlier, a manifesto called The Two Thousand Words called for more openness in its government.
The Two Thousand Words were published in this 1968 period of liberalization in Czechoslovakia. It was ended when Soviet troops invaded in August 1968.
Jan Palach (“yahn PAH-lahkh”) performed this action in January 1969 to protest the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. Malcolm Browne took a photograph of another person who performed this action.
Czechoslovakia [do not accept or prompt on “Czech Republic” or “Slovakia”]
Prague Spring
self-immolation [accept burning oneself alive or setting oneself on fire or other clear equivalents] &lt;European History&gt;
This event is known by Koreans as Sa-I-Gu, or 4-2-9, referencing the date it started. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which Koreans defended their stores with firearms against mobs of looters, who had earlier beaten truck driver Reginald Denny senseless.
Daryl Gates retired as the chief of this city’s police department following the Rodney King riots, which occurred in this city.
This mayor of Los Angeles at the time called for peace despite expressing his anger at the acquittal of Rodney King’s attackers.
Rodney King riots [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, 1992 Los Angeles riots or 1992 L.A. riots]
Los Angeles [or L.A.]
Tom Bradley &lt;American History&gt;
Answer the following about the interesting history of Halley’s Comet, for 10 points each.
Coins of this kingdom depict the passage of Halley’s Comet in 87 BC. This kingdom’s capital Tigranocerta was sacked in 69 BC by Lucius Licinius Lucullus.
Halley’s Comet appeared in 1066, shortly before this battle was fought. The comet is featured prominently in the Bayeux Tapestry, which tells the story of this battle.
Halley’s Comet supposedly became the first astronomical body to be excommunicated after Callixtus III condemned it for being a bad omen during a siege of this city. In 1999, a Chinese embassy in this city was accidentally bombed by the United States.
Armenia [or Kingdom of Greater Armenia; or Mets Hayk; accept Artaxiad Kingdom]
Battle of Hastings
Belgrade [or Beograd] &lt;European History&gt;
This man shot at Alejandrina Cox after mistaking her for a man, leading to his resignation. For 10 points each:
Name this general who was later assassinated along with his wife Sofia by a car bomb in Buenos Aires.
Prats was a general in this country, which was ruled by Salvador Allende (“ah-YEN-day”) before Augusto Pinochet (“PEE-no-shay”) took power in a 1973 coup.
Prats put down a “putsch” named for one of these objects. One of these objects broke the front gate into the presidential palace during the Fall of Saigon.
Carlos Prats [or Carlos Prats González]
Chile [or Republic of Chile; or República de Chile]
tanks [accept Tank Putsch or Tanquetazo] &lt;World History&gt;
Answer the following about Carrie Nation, for 10 points each.
Carrie Nation was a hatchet-wielding activist for this movement, which succeeded in its cause with the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment.
Carrie’s first saloon attack was in this Kansas town. She was told to go to this city, where she destroyed three saloons, in a vision.
Carrie approved of this event, which she saw as divine retribution for its target’s secret drinking. It was carried out by an anarchist at the 1901 Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo.
temperance [accept prohibition; accept banning alcohol]
Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”), Kansas
assassination of William McKinley [or equivalents, such as shooting of McKinley] &lt;American History&gt;
These people were to be summarily executed for enforcing “Judeo-Bolshevik ideology” in an order signed shortly before the commencement of Operation Barbarossa. For 10 points each:
Name this position in the Soviet military whose holders were attached to a unit to instill Communist principles in the soldiers.
Twenty-six commissars were shot outside this city after a failed 1918 commune in it. This Caucasian city’s oil fields were the target of Operation Edelweiss.
The capture of this city was part of Operation Edelweiss. This city now called Volgograd was the site of a battle that was the turning point of the Eastern Front of World War II and ended in the capture of German Field Marshal Friedrich Paulus.
commissars [accept Commissar Order]
Baku [or Bakı; accept 26 Baku Commissars]
Stalingrad &lt;European History&gt;
The Patriot War was an unsuccessful attempt to seize this territory in 1812. For 10 points each:
Name this state that was ceded to the United States from Spain after the signing of the Adams–Onís (“oh-NEESE”) Treaty of 1819. This state was home to the Seminole people.
This 1832 treaty called for the Seminoles to move west out of Florida. The Seminoles’ refusal to relocate after this treaty was signed led to the Second Seminole War.
The Treaty of Payne’s Landing sparked this Seminole leader’s resistance. This leader was captured in 1837 by Thomas Jesup, under a white flag of truce.
Florida
Treaty of Payne’s Landing [accept Treaty of Fort Gibson]
Osceola (“OSS-ee-OH-luh”) [accept Billy Powell] &lt;American History&gt;
Answer the following about Roman imperial dynasties, for 10 points each.
The first dynasty of imperial Rome ended with the death of this emperor, who reputedly “fiddled while Rome burned.”
Vespasian founded this dynasty after the chaos caused by the death of Nero. Vespasian’s sons, Titus and Domitian, were also part of this dynasty.
During the Crisis of the Third Century, emperors who seized power through the military are commonly known as this kind of emperor. Gordian, Pupienus, and Maximinus Thrax were examples of this kind of emperor.
Nero
Flavian Dynasty
barracks emperors &lt;Ancient History&gt;
Answer the following about the last days of the “Hermit Kingdom,” for 10 points each.
This country, ruled by the Joseon (“JO-sun”) Dynasty, was often called the “Hermit Kingdom.” It was annexed by Japan in 1910.
This 1876 treaty forcibly opened Korean ports to Japanese trade and ended Korea’s status as a tributary state under the Qing (“ching”) Dynasty. It was signed on an island that was earlier attacked by American ships in 1871.
The Treaty of Ganghwa is an example of this type of asymmetrical treaty signed between Western and Asian powers in the 19th century. Treaties denoted by this term, such as the treaty of Nanking, usually granted rights such as extraterritoriality.
Korea
Treaty of Ganghwa Island
unequal treaties &lt;World History&gt;
This document was the first of a series of three similar announcements, and it included a pledge that neither party would “seek hegemony” in the Pacific region. For 10 points each:
Identify this landmark diplomatic communiqué issued in 1972 from the namesake city that began the process of normalizing US–Chinese relations.
The Shanghai Communiqué was issued during this president’s historic diplomatic trip to China, during which he met with Mao and shook hands with Zhou Enlai (“joe un-lye”).
The wording of the Shanghai Communiqué is an example of this two-word term coined by Henry Kissinger. It refers to using non-specific language to avoid forcing parties to confront disagreements about sensitive issues.
the Shanghai Communiqué [or the Joint Communiqué of the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China]
Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon]
constructive ambiguity &lt;American History&gt;
Before one battle, this ruler reportedly blew into a piece of sandstone, which legendarily signaled victory for anyone who could generate a sound from it. For 10 points each:
Name this king from Wessex who is the only English king to be known as “the Great.” He signed the Treaty of Wedmore after defeating the Vikings.
Alfred was joined in many of his conquests by a son with this name. A later king with this name was the only English king to be canonized.
Edward led the allied Wessex and Mercian forces at this 910 battle. After this battle, no Danish armies raided English territory again. All Viking commanders involved in this battle were killed.
Alfred the Great
Edward [accept Edward the Elder; accept Edward the Confessor]
Battle of Tettenhall [or Battle of Wednesfield; or Battle of Wodnesfeld] &lt;British History&gt;
This man killed himself after he received an ultimatum to resign after he had his political opponent Carlos Lacerda killed. For 10 points each:
Name this leader whose first presidency ended the “coffee with milk” era in his country.
Vargas was supported early in his presidency by the Integralists, a Brazilian movement that is often linked with this far-right political ideology whose name derives from a word for a bundle of rods.
Vargas strongly advocated developmental and protectionist policies, including setting up this company. In the 1960s, a series of three memoranda by geologist Walter K. Link led to this company massively changing its operations.
Getúlio Vargas (“zhay-TOOL-yoo VAR-guss”) [or Getúlio Dornelles Vargas]
fascism [or fascist movements]
Petrobras &lt;World History&gt;
Upon the appointment of the Count of Polignac (“po-leen-YAHK”) as Prime Minister, this statesman immediately wrote that “The King rules, but does not govern.” For 10 points each:
Name this statesman and later Prime Minister of France who founded the National as an opposition newspaper against Charles X.
Adolphe Thiers met with this Duke of Orléans (“or-lay-AWN”) and helped convince him to take the crown during the July Revolution. He was known as the “Citizen-King.”
Louis Philippe was overthrown in February of this year. Nationalist movements broke out in Austria, Germany, and France in this year.
Adolphe Thiers (“tee-AIR”) [or Marie Joseph Louis Adolphe Thiers]
Louis Philippe I
1848 &lt;European History&gt;
This ruler had his golden earring ripped off along with his earlobe while being paraded during a Roman triumph. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who was captured due to the betrayal of his father-in-law Bocchus I.
Jugurtha was a ruler of this North African kingdom. The first ruler of this kingdom, Massinissa, was given its land because he allied with the Romans against the Carthage-aligned Syphax.
This future dictator and rival of Gaius Marius was responsible for the capture of Jugurtha. The first wave of mass proscriptions took place during his dictatorship.
Jugurtha
Numidia
Sulla [or Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix] &lt;Ancient History&gt;
An inscription on a double-pillar monument claims that victims of an accident on this island were sacrificed by “imperialist voracity.” For 10 points each:
Name this island that the United States promised to not annex in the Teller Amendment.
During the Battle of Las Guasimas in Cuba, this former Confederate general and representative from Alabama nicknamed “Fighting Joe” yelled out in excitement “We’ve got the damn Yankees on the run again!”
Wheeler is one of the few Confederate officers buried in this “national cemetery” in Virginia.
Cuba
Joseph Wheeler
Arlington National Cemetery &lt;American History&gt;
This slogan titles a 2001 book on “tourism and national identity” by Miami University professor Marguerite S. Shaffer. For 10 points each:
Give this three-word phrase used in early 20th-century advertising to convince wealthy Americans to visit domestic tourist sites rather than go abroad.
The “See America First” campaign was largely funded by this industry. The Union Pacific and Central Pacific were two companies in this industry.
This national park was billed as “America’s Switzerland” by the Great Northern Railway. This Montana park contains the Triple Divide of the Americas.
“See America First”
railroad industry [or train industry; accept equivalents]
Glacier National Park &lt;American History&gt;
This historian was Hadrian’s secretary, but was dismissed after he got too close to Hadrian’s wife Sabina. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Twelve Caesars.
According to Suetonius, the last words of this first emperor of Rome were “Have I played the part well? Then applaud as I exit.”
However, the public record shows Augustus’s last words to be “I found Rome a city of” this material and “left it a city of” this other material. Please give the two materials in the order as they were in the original quote.
Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus
Augustus [accept Octavian]
brick AND marble [accept clay in place of “brick”] &lt;Ancient History&gt;
Answer the following about the history of Bolivia in the 19th century, for 10 points each.
This South American independence leader, along with his lieutenant Antonio José de Sucre, was instrumental in winning Bolivia its independence.
Bolivia lost its Pacific coastline to Chile and Peru in a war fought over this mineral resource that is used in fertilizer and gunpowder. That war is sometimes named after this resource.
Bolivia’s economy became more dependent on the mining of this resource towards the end of the 19th century. The British Isles were an important source of this resource in antiquity.
Simón Bolívar [or Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar Palacios Ponte y Blanco]
saltpeter [or sodium nitrate; accept Saltpeter War or Guerra del Salitre]
tin &lt;World History&gt;
This man became the highest-profile person to be executed in a “legal purge” in his country after World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who overthrew Haakon VII to take power in 1940.
Quisling was the wartime leader of this country. This was the northernmost country that was part of Nazi Germany’s “Atlantic Wall.”
A Norwegian facility to produce this substance was successfully sabotaged in 1943 by British commandos in Operation Gunnerside.
Vidkun Quisling
Norway
heavy water [or deuterium oxide; accept D2O or 2H2O; do not accept or prompt on “water” or “H2O”] &lt;European History&gt;
This man and Lance Barnard formed a mini-ministry known as the “Duumvirate,” and his administration created the world’s first no-fault divorce procedures. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who was removed from power by Governor-General John Kerr in an incident known as “the Dismissal.”
Kerr dismissed Whitlam as Prime Minister of Australia under the authority of this queen, who technically remains the monarch of Australia today.
Elizabeth II had a much better relationship with this longest-serving Australian Prime Minister, who served from 1939 to 1941 and from 1949 to 1966. This giver of the “Forgotten People” speech created the ANZUS alliance with New Zealand and the United States and committed Australian troops to the Vietnam War.
Gough Whitlam [or Edward Gough Whitlam]
Elizabeth II [prompt on Elizabeth]
Sir Robert Menzies (“mingus”) &lt;World History&gt;
Answer the following about sea shanties, for 10 points each.
A shanty titled “Leave Her,” this name, “Leave Her” was often sung to air grievances near the end of a voyage. An American Civil War song states that “we’ll all feel gay when” a man of this name “comes marching home.”
The encouragement “heave away, you rolling king” appears in the chorus of a shanty that says “we’re bound for” this state that contains the Bunda sea cliffs. Its capital is Adelaide.
The crew of a whaling ship operating in the Kamchatka Sea expresses its hope to return to port in a shanty titled “Rolling Down to Old [this island],” home to the former capital city of Lahaina. The Olowalu Massacre took place on this island after its natives stole a small boat from American trader Simon Metcalf.
Johnny
South Australia
Maui &lt;Other Academic&gt;
Name some things about Revolutionary War-era people with a common last name, for 10 points each.
This British general served as supreme commander of British forces in America from 1778 to 1781, replacing William Howe. He led the army that forced Benjamin Lincoln to surrender Charleston.
James Clinton helped lead this 1779 punitive expedition into Iroquois territory in upstate New York. This scorched-earth campaign devastated the power of the Iroquois Confederacy.
DeWitt Clinton, a nephew of the Founding Father George Clinton, served as Governor of New York during the completion of this infrastructure project. This waterway connects its namesake Great Lake to the Hudson River.
Sir Henry Clinton
Sullivan Expedition
Erie Canal &lt;American History&gt;
Roger Dymok published a point-by-point refutation of this document on behalf of Richard II. For 10 points each:
Name this manifesto that was nailed to the doors of Westminster Abbey and St. Paul’s Cathedral in 1395. It criticized the church’s temporal power and its practice of clerical celibacy.
The Twelve Conclusions were written by members of this religious movement, who followed the teachings of John Wycliffe. Their name comes from a derogatory term meaning “mumblers.”
Lollard leader John Oldcastle led a revolt against this ruler and was burned at the stake in 1417. This king led English forces to victory at the Battle of Agincourt.
Twelve Conclusions
Lollards
Henry V [prompt on Henry] &lt;British History&gt;
This political leader played guitar for the band Tout-à-Coup (“too-tah-COO”) Jazz. For 10 points each:
Name this Marxist revolutionary who overthrew Jean-Baptiste Ouédraogo (“way-drah-oh-goh”) in 1983 and gave his country a new name that means “Land of Upright Man.”
Sankara was the fifth president of this African country. It was called Upper Volta when it was a French colony.
Sankara is often called Africa’s version of this man. This Marxist revolutionary, born Ernesto Lynch, helped Fidel Castro overthrow the Batista government and is the subject of the iconic black-and-white photograph Guerrillero Heroico (“gair-ee-YAIR-oh air-OH-ee-koh”).
Thomas Sankara
Burkina Faso
Che Guevara [accept either underlined portion] &lt;World History&gt;
This politician names the Ottawa headquarters of the Canadian Department of Global Affairs. For 10 points each:
Name this former Prime Minister of Canada. After this politician suggested that American forces cease bombing North Vietnam in a Philadelphia speech, Lyndon B. Johnson grabbed him by his lapels and shouted “Don’t you come into my living room and piss on my rug.”
Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for his role in mediating the resolution of this event. Anthony Eden resigned in the aftermath of this event, in which Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized a certain Egyptian waterway.
This foreign politician angered Pearson by declaring “Long live Free Quebec” in Montreal during Expo 67.
Lester Bowles Pearson
Suez Crisis
Charles de Gaulle &lt;World History&gt;
Learned (“LEARN-id”) Hand used this term in <em>Commissioner v. Ickelheimer</em> to refer to rights that existed that were not explicitly written out. For 10 points each:
Name this term for rights that are implicitly derived from enumerated rights in the Constitution. Most notably, William Douglas used this term to overturn a ban on contraception in his majority opinion in Griswold v. Connecticut.
This constitutional amendment affirms the existence of rights that are not explicitly enumerated in the Constitution. It states that “the enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”
Suspects are read that they have the right to remain silent and to obtain an attorney during interrogations while in police custody following this 1966 Supreme Court case.
penumbras
Ninth Amendment
Miranda v. Arizona &lt;American History&gt;
On September 7, 1822, this ruler’s wife Maria Leopoldina urged him to defy the demands of the <em>Cortes</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler who shouted “Independence or death!” in the Cry of Ipiranga.
Pedro was the first emperor of this South American country, which won its independence from Portugal.
Two years after independence, Pedro I suppressed an uprising of wealthy landowners in Northeastern Brazil, who proclaimed a confederation named after this geographical feature.
Pedro I [prompt on Pedro]
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil]
the Equator [or equador] &lt;World History&gt;
This country’s leader was a personal friend of Ian Smith and gave the white Rhodesian government aid during Rhodesia’s Bush War. For 10 points each:
Name this country that fought to keep its overseas colonies in a war that lasted from 1961 to 1975. It also owned colonies like Daman (“duh-MON”) and Diu (“DEE-oo”).
This Portuguese leader responded to the loss of his country’s former territories of Goa, Daman, and Diu by dissolving diplomatic ties with India. This dictator presided over the Estado Novo (“ish-TAH-doo NOH-voo”) starting in 1933.
Before entering politics, Salazar was a distinguished member of this profession. Indonesian members of this profession who advised Suharto’s “New Order” regime were known as the “Berkeley Mafia.”
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]
António de Oliveira Salazar (“suh-luh-ZARR”)
economists [or economics] &lt;European History&gt;
Name some things about the travels of Afonso de Albuquerque, for 10 points each.
Albuquerque often fought forces of this empire around the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean. This empire’s ruler Selim the Grim conquered Mamluk Egypt in 1517.
Albuquerque was named duke of this Portuguese enclave in India after conquering it in 1510. It would remain Portuguese territory until 1961, when India retook it in Operation Vijay.
In 1515, Albuquerque sent one of these animals to Manuel I of Portugal from Goa. It was pitted in a fight against an elephant and drowned en route to Rome where it was intended as a gift to Leo X.
Ottoman Empire [or Exalted Ottoman State; or Devlet-i Aliye-i Osmaniye; or Osmanlı Devleti; or Osmanlı İmparatorluğu; accept Turkish Empire; prompt on Turkey]
Goa
rhinoceros &lt;World History&gt;
This man won the Battle of Plymouth against England while serving under Maarten Tromp. For 10 points each:
Name this admiral who burned thirteen English ships in an attack near Chatham that took place shortly after Holmes’s Bonfire.
Michiel de Ruyter was an admiral for this country, which won independence from Spain in the Eighty Years’ War.
The aforementioned Raid on the Medway, which is described in Samuel Pepys’s (“PEEPS’s”) diary, occurred in this decade.
Michiel de Ruyter (“mih-KHEEL duh RAO-ter”) [or Michiel Adriaanszoon de Ruyter]
Netherlands [or Kingdom of the Netherlands; accept Dutch Republic; accept Holland]
1660s &lt;European History&gt;
This man ran out of his cabin shouting “Noble earthquake!” during the 1872 Lone Pine earthquake. For 10 points each:
Name this naturalist and founder of the Sierra Club. He was instrumental in establishing Yosemite National Park.
Muir was a friend of this conservationist president who championed the “Square Deal” and ran as the Progressive Party candidate in 1912.
Muir strongly condemned the flooding of this California valley, comparing it to destroying churches and cathedrals. Nevertheless, it was approved in 1913 by the Raker Act.
John Muir (“myurr”)
Theodore Roosevelt [or TR; prompt on Roosevelt]
Hetch Hetchy Valley &lt;American History&gt;
This man declared that “Under the weight of recent history, I did what people do when words fail them” after performing a spontaneous action. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who fell to his knees in front of the Warsaw Ghetto Memorial in 1970. This leader of his country’s Social Democratic Party won the 1971 Nobel Peace Prize.
Willy Brandt was a chancellor of this country, which was governed from the city of Bonn. Its “economic miracle” was engineered by Ludwig Erhard.
Brandt’s tenure as chancellor was cut short when this personal assistant of his was revealed to be an East German Stasi (“STAH-zee”) agent. Brandt had previously taken this man on a private vacation to Norway with him.
Willy Brandt (“VILL-ee BRAHNT”) [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]
West Germany [accept Federal Republic of Germany or FRG; accept Bundesrepublik Deutschland or BRD; do not accept or prompt on “Germany”]
Günter Guillaume (“gee-YOHM”) &lt;European History&gt;
Though she’s not explicitly named, this woman’s beheading in Shaoxing (“shao-sheeng”) is the source of the blood used to soak the bun in the short story “Medicine” by Lu Xun (“loo shwin”). For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century Chinese anti-Manchu feminist leader. She was executed for plotting the Anqing (“ahn-cheeng”) Uprising.
Qiu Jin attempted to overthrow this last imperial dynasty of China, which was ruled by the Manchus.
Qiu Jin publicly opposed this custom that limited women’s mobility in Imperial China. “Golden lotuses” were the ultimate goal of this process, which began in early childhood.
Qiu Jin (“ch’yoh jeen”) [prompt on Qiu; accept Xuanqing or Jingxiong or Jianhu Nüxia or Woman Knight of Mirror Lake]
Qing Dynasty
foot-binding [or binding feet; or chanzu or chihn-juk] &lt;World History&gt;
This man outlined his motives and past in the Jerilderie (“juh-RIL-duh-ree”) Letter. For 10 points each:
Name this bushranger who wore homemade bulletproof armor during his final shootout with police at Glenrowan.
Bushrangers were outlaws in this country, whose unofficial national anthem is “Waltzing Matilda.”
This Australian bushranger was nicknamed “Mad Dog” for his violent mood swings and was known as “the most bloodthirsty ruffian that ever took to the bush.” During one robbery, he sent station hand John McLean to get a doctor, but, fearful that McLean would contact the police, decided to chase him down and shoot him instead.
Ned Kelly [or Edward Kelly]
Commonwealth of Australia
Dan Morgan [or John Fuller] &lt;World History&gt;
Answer the following about Russia’s Siberian and Far Eastern federal subjects, for 10 points each.
The documentary Genghis Blues depicts a journey to this republic that borders Mongolia. Kongar-ol Ondar is one of this republic’s master throat singers.
In 1928, the city of Birobidzhan (“bee-roh-bee-JAHN”) was chosen as the center of a still-extant “autonomous oblast” for people of this religion, as part of an effort to create an alternative to Zionism.
The Lena Pillars can be found in this largest federal Russian republic, which is also the largest subnational governing body by area in the world. Roughly half of its population is composed of a namesake Turkic ethnic group.
Tuva [or Tyva; or the Tyva Republic; or Tyva Respublika; accept Tannu Tuva]
Judaism [or Jewish people; or Jews; accept Jewish Autonomous Oblast or Yevreyskaya avtonomnaya oblast]
Sakha [or Republic of Sakha (Yakutia); accept either underlined portion] &lt;Geography&gt;
Answer the following about French popes, for 10 points each.
No Frenchman has been elected pope since Gregory XI (“the eleventh”), the last of a line of seven French popes who presided from this city. Clement V moved the seat of the papacy to this city from Rome, where it remained during the “Babylonian captivity.”
Another French pope, Urban II, whipped up support for this military initiative by saying “God wills it!” at the Council of Clermont.
This first French pope introduced the abacus and decimal system to Europe. He also crowned Stephen of Hungary on Christmas Day, 1000 AD.
Avignon [accept Avignon papacy]
First Crusade [prompt on the Crusades]
Sylvester II [prompt on Sylvester] &lt;European History&gt;
After being attacked by the rival Chanka people, this ruler is said to have called on the sun god Inti to turn stones into <em>pururauca</em> warriors to defend his city. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Viracocha who transformed the Kingdom of Cuzco into the Incan Empire in the 15th century.
This Incan site is thought by archaeologists to have been built as an estate for Pachacuti. This site was rediscovered after Hiram Bingham’s 1911 Yale Peruvian expedition.
According to some sources, Pachacuti began the construction of these storehouses, which would hold crops, meat, wool, and weapons, among other commodities. These structures not only helped to prevent famines in the empire, but also served as reminders to the people of their obligations to the empire.
Pachacuti [or Pachakutiq Inka Yupanki; or Pachacútec]
Machu Picchu [or Machu Pikchu]
qullqas [or collcas] &lt;World History&gt;
The poem “Thirty Years” was published with a book in this genre by the Cuban poet Juan Francisco Manzano. For 10 points each:
Name this genre. James Albert, also known as Ukawsaw Gronniosaw, wrote the first of these texts to be published in English.
Likely the most famous slave narrative is the autobiography by this escaped slave, who later participated in the Seneca Falls convention and edited the North Star.
In contrast to Frederick Douglass, George Fitzhugh argued in favor of slavery, comparing abolitionism to this activity. The word for this crime derives from the name of a Caribbean tribe that regularly performed this activity, according to Spanish conquistadors.
slave narrative [prompt on autobiography]
Frederick Douglass
cannibalism [accept eating people]  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - French&gt;
This general burned the house of John Ross in Tahlequah during one raid by a unit of “mounted rifles” he commanded. For 10 points each:
Name this general who led the pro-Confederate faction of the Cherokee Civil War in addition to commanding his Mounted Rifles in several battles in the Trans-Mississippi Theater.
The largest native American contingent of any Civil War battle fought at the Battle of Pea Ridge in this state where the Union post of Fort Smith was seized after the outset of the war.
The Iroquois soldier Ely Parker, a close friend of Ulysses S. Grant, was selected due to his perfect handwriting to draft the treaty that ended the Civil War at this Virginia town where Robert E. Lee surrendered.
Stand Watie [accept Stand Firm, De Gata Ga]
Arkansas
Appomattox Court House [prompt on Appomattox]  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Myers&gt;
Eugene Genovese's <em>Roll, Jordan, Roll</em> is subtitled for “the world that” people in this condition “made”. For 10 points each:
Name this condition also studied in historical works such as Ira Berlin's Many Thousands Gone. Eric Foner's most famous work covers the period immediately after its abolition.
The methods of this subdiscipline were applied to slavery in Robert Fogel's Time on the Cross, which was published as a response to Roll, Jordan, Roll. This subdiscipline co-founded by Fogel and named for a Muse applies economic methods to the study of history.
This author of From Slavery to Freedom and Reconstruction: After the Civil War, a professor at Duke University, helped prepare a pivotal legal brief in favor of the plaintiffs in Brown v. Board of Education. This man also served as the first black president of the American Historical Association.
slavery [accept being a slave]
Cliometrics
John Hope Franklin &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
A man named Manjiro is the first known person of this ethnicity to immigrate to the United States. For 10 points each:
Manjiro was born in this country before getting shipwrecked and rescued by American seaman. This country was closed to most external trade under the Tokugawa Shogunate.
The John Howland brought Manjiro to this Massachusetts city, a center of the US whaling industry in the 19th century. This city on Massachusetts's south coast has one of the United States' largest Portuguese communities.
After returning to Japan, Manjiro passed on his western knowledge to Iwasaki Yataro, who founded Mitsubishi, one of the first of these companies. This Japanese term means “wealthy clique” and also included Mitsui.
Empire of Japan [or Nippon]
New Bedford
zaibatsu &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Bentley&gt;
During the National Boycott of California Table Grapes, this woman met with Gloria Steinem to convince her to help get women to support the farmworkers. For 10 points each:
Name this activist. Alongside Cesar Chavez, she founded the National Farmworkers Association, which became the United Farm Workers.
The National Boycott was part of the Delano grape strike, which also saw Chavez and Huerta lead a march from Delano to this capital of California.
Also during the grape strike, Chavez supported the foundation of this theater troupe, originally led by Luis Valdez. This company has put on plays such as “Zoot Suit.”
Dolores Huerta
Sacramento
El Teatro Campesino [prompt on Peasants' Theater or Farmworkers' Theater]  &lt;History American (1945-present) - French&gt;
In one poster, this figure says “Good material waste in scrap help to saving face for Jap.” For 10 points each:
Name this racist caricature with round glasses and pointed teeth. He was used to represent Japan in many American propaganda posters during World War II.
In another poster, this general of the Imperial Japanese Army is “velly happy” that you missed work last week. This Prime Minister of Japan ordered the attack on Pearl Harbor.
This illustrator represented Tojo as an ugly woman married to Hitler in one of his many propaganda posters, although he is better known for writing children's books like The Cat in the Hat.
Tokio Kid
Hideki Tojo or Tojo Hideki
Doctor Seuss [or Theodor Seuss Geisel]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - French&gt;
This event was partially stocked by the environmental concerns of mining as part of the Phosphorite War. For 10 points each:
Name this event whose name was coined by Heinz Valk, that caused the Soviet Union to lose control of three Baltic nations.
The Singing Revolution resulted in the independence of Latvia, Lithuania, and this nation, whose Tallinn Song Festival Grounds was a major meeting place for demonstrators.
On the fiftieth anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, two million people across the the three countries performed this specific action over the length of their border with Russia to demonstrate unity.
the Singing Revolution
Estonia
form a human chain [accept equivalents, descriptive answers]  &lt;History European 1914-present - Hawkins&gt;
This theorist argued for a democratic model of the title institution in <em>Communism and the Family</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this theorist who served as Commissar of Social Welfare before the Soviet Family Code of 1926 marked a retreat from her ideas.
This woman co-founded an anti-war organization with Karl Liebknecht. This anarchist published her theories in The Accumulation of Capital.
This leader attacked Kollontai for suggesting sex education rather than hiking and gymnastics lessons as ways to deal with the USSR's rates of teenage sex. Luxemburg criticized this leader for his authoritarianism following the October Revolution.
Alexandra Kollontai
Rosa Luxemburg
Vladimir Ilych Lenin [accept Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov]  &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
While touring a dig site led by this man, Agatha Christie met her second husband, his assistant Max Mallowan. For 10 points each:
Name this British archaeologist who inspired Christie's novel Murder in Mesopotamia by discovering a Royal Cemetery. He also uncovered the Standard of Ur during his 1922-1934 excavation of the city.
Woolley's team uncovered a “Great” example of these structures in Ur. Thirty-two of these step pyramids have been found in Mesopotamia.
The Great Ziggurat of Ur was restored by this first known archaeologist and last king of the Neo-Babylonian empire, who lost to Cyrus the Great at Opis. His son Belshazzar ruled while he spent ten years in Tayma.
Sir Leonard Woolley
ziggurats
Nabonidus [or Nabû-naʾid]  &lt;History World - Smith&gt;
People of this profession are kept out of politics in Mali because of their perceived ability to manipulate the supernatural force of <em>nyama</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this profession that is charged with producing spiritual objects such as boli and CiWara, as well as a rod used by a mythical king to stand up after recovering from being crippled.
The force of nyama is often analogized to this concept in Chinese folk religion, an animating force that is manipulated in a martial art whose name consists of this word followed by “gong.”
As part of a broader campaign against African religious practices, this colonial power destroyed many Malian religious relics. The Cult of the Supreme Being originated in this European country.
blacksmiths [accept nyamakalaw, prompt on artist or craftsman, or similar answers]
qi [accept ch'i]
France &lt;RMP Non-Christian/Bible Religion - Myers&gt;
This clause's “dormant” form prohibits state laws which place an undue burden on the interstate form of a certain activity. For 10 points each:
Name this clause in Article I, Section 8 that gives congress the power to regulate the namesake activity between states and with foreign nations.
The power of the commerce clause was dramatically increased by this case, in which the Supreme Court ruled that Congress could regulate activities which indirectly affected commerce. This case established the New Deal's Agricultural Adjustments Act as constitutional.
In this Marshall court case, overlapping state and federal concessions for operating steamboat lines led the court to define the word “among” in the Commerce clause more strictly. It is considered one of the foundations of Commerce Clause jurisprudence.
commerce clause
Wickard v. Filburn [accept either]
Gibbons v. Ogden [accept either]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Mitchell&gt;
In <em>Life on the Mississippi</em>, Mark Twain blamed the influence of this author's novels for the “pathetic” “architectural falsehood” of the Louisiana State Capitol's medieval-revival design. For 10 points each:
Name this author who Twain also accused of doing “more real and lasting harm, perhaps, than any other individual that ever wrote” by creating a mythical version of chivalry in his historical novels that helped contribute to the outbreak of the Civil War.
In an essay on Scotland published in The Invention of Tradition, this Oxford historian and rival of A. J. P. Taylor accuses Scott of fabricating many elements of modern Scottish nationalism, including wearing kilts and playing bagpipes.
In order to write a biography of this leader, Sir Walter Scott was granted unique access to archives relating to his imprisonment on St. Helena and did research by conversing with veterans of the Battle of Waterloo, at which this leader was defeated.
Sir Walter Scott
Hugh Trevor-Roper
Napoleon I Bonaparte [accept Life of Napoleon Buonaparte]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
The overuse of the anti-inflammatory diclofenac in livestock during the 1990s has caused a 95% decline in populations of many species of these birds in South Asia. For 10 points each:
Name these scavenging birds, whose decline has led to a buildup of cow carcasses, leading to a public health crisis. Some Parsis started breeding these birds to maintain their Towers of Silence.
A 2018 study used radio telemetry to show that vultures stay entirely on one side of the border between these two countries because one of them maintains a carrion ban. These two countries have disputed the town of Olivenza for the last two centuries.
Portugal maintains that carrion ban, which was originally implemented over the entire European Union after an outbreak of this prion-caused disease that began in the late 1980s.
vultures
Spain and Portugal [both answers required]
mad cow disease [or bovine spongiform encephalopathy; or BSE]  &lt;Current Events Non-US - Kothari&gt;
A lot of people wanted to overthrow the Weimar Republic. For 10 points each:
This general and de facto World War I-era co-leader of Germany helped lead the Beer Hall Putsch against the Republic. This general gave an order for the Putschists to march, but did not plan or specify where, thus leading the disorganized mob he and Hitler led to be easily defeated by Bavarian state police.
These units of demobilized World War I veterans were instrumental in suppressing the leftist Spartacist Uprising against the Weimar Republic. These groups would later attempt to overthrow the Weimar Republic themselves in the Kapp Putsch.
The fall from power of this former co-leader with Ludendorff and namesake of a zeppelin that crashed spectacularly over New Jersey marked the end of the Weimar Republic.
Erich von Ludendorff
freikorps
Paul von Hindenburg &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
This woman's activism may have been inspired by her upbringing by a mother who believed she was Queen Victoria. For 10 points each:
Name this activist who heard God tell her to “go to Kiowa” and that “I'll stand by you” in Medicine Lodge, Kansas, and was killed in 1911 by a woman whose business she was attacking.
Nation was an activist for this cause, which was accomplished in 1920 by the 18th amendment, which gained its enforcement powers from the Volstead Act.
Nation's violent tactics contrasted with this organization founded in Hillsboro, Ohio, which was led by Frances Willard.
Carry A. Nation
prohibition of alcohol [accept, but do not reveal, temperance]
Women's Christian Temperance Union  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
This man was a dandy in London nicknamed “Jessamy John” before he escaped prison and fled the country after killing a man in a duel. For 10 points each:
Name this financier who laid out his theories in the pamphlet “Money and Trade Consider'd” and began printing banknotes using his General Bank to finance the purchase of shares in his Company of the West.
John Law's Company of the West eventually amassed a stock value of more than twice France's GDP before crashing in a bubble named for this river, which ran through the colony the Company of the West was founded to trade with.
The Mississippi Bubble collapsed under the reign of this king, who delegated much of the running of his empire to his mistress, Madame de Pompadour. This king had just succeeded a monarch nicknamed the “Sun King”, his father.
John Law
Mississippi Bubble
Louis XV [prompt on Louis]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
An economics professor and supporter of this cause named Clara Ponsati was controversially extradited from Scotland under the terms of the 1351 Treason Felony Act for “levying war against her Majesty.” For 10 points each:
Identify this cause vigorously opposed by Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.
Scotland, like Catalonia, has sought increased autonomy from the central government. In the UK, this term refers to the UK parliament granting powers to the national assemblies of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
This President of the European Council and former head of the Civic Platform party spoke out against the Catalan declaration of independence in 2017.
Catalan independence [or independence of Catalonia; prompt on things like greater autonomy for Catalonia]
devolution
Donald Tusk [or Donald Franciszek Tusk]  &lt;Current Events Non-US - Bentley&gt;
A set of this number of “great campaigns” included two attacks on the Gurkhas and a genocidal campaign to overthrow the leader of the Dzungars. For 10 points each:
Name this number, which also named a group of “regular attendants” who dominated the politics of the late Han Dynasty.
This emperor launched the Ten Great Campaigns in addition to receiving the Macartney Mission from Britain and suppressing the White Lotus Rebellion. He abdicated so that the length of his reign would not surpass that of his grandfather, Kangxi.
The Ten Regular Attendants were a group of these people, who had a traditional rivalry at the Chinese court with “Mandarins” and were employed on the theory that they would look out for the emperor's interest first since they could have no children.
ten [accept shi]
Qianlong
eunuchs  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
Years after the fact, it was discovered that a holder of this position gave judges and opposition politicians advance notice of his intent to remove a prime minister, despite official denials that that had happened. For 10 points each:
Name this position held by Sir John Kerr, who triggered a constitutional crisis by removing Gough (guff) Whitlam from office in favor of Malcolm Fraser after Whitlam won a snap election.
This founder of the British Guiana Labor Party was removed twice by British governors for his suspected Marxist sympathies, once after refusing to resign following a British military intervention. He was replaced the second time by his former ally, Forbes Burnham.
An “affair” with a rhyming name took place when Governor-General John Byng refused to call a general election for this Liberal Canadian Prime Minister in 1926. This Prime Minister led Canada for a total of 22 years, including during World War II.
Governor-General of Australia
Cheddi Jagan
William Lyon Mackenzie King [accept Mackenzie King, do not accept John Mackenzie]  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
In the <em>Anglo-Saxon Chronicle</em>, this event is presaged by “excessive whirlwinds” and “fiery dragons.” For 10 points each:
Name this 793 event in which Danish raiders arrived at a monastery and made off with the relics of St. Cuthbert.
The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle refers to the Danes that sacked Lindisfarne using this specific word. A “Great Army” described by this word was led by Ivar the Boneless, Ubba, and Guthrum.
That Great Heathen Army eventually conquered every Anglo-Saxon kingdom except for this one, which recorded the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. This kingdom defeated the Danes at the Battle of Eddington under the command of its king, Alfred the Great.
sack of Lindisfarne
heathen [or hæðen or hæþen; do not accept synonyms]
Wessex &lt;History European to 1400 - French&gt;
This diplomat used the pseudonym “Mr. X” to write his most famous work. For 10 points each:
Name this diplomat who composed a “long telegram” from Moscow that shaped much of US cold war policy.
The “long telegram” outlined this policy, which focused on making sure Communism did not spread beyond its then-current frontiers. After what was seen as this policy's failure in the Chinese Revolution, it was modified to become more aggressive.
The “NSC 68” paper, issued in 1950 by this primary author and assistant secretary of defense, proposed a policy of rolling back Communist gains using new technologies including the hydrogen bomb. This author is considered a forerunner of neoconservatism.
George Kennan
containment
Paul Nitze &lt;History American (1945-present) - Myers&gt;
Teddy Roosevelt called the lawyer Uriah Rose “the brainiest man I have ever met.” For 10 points each:
Rose was born in Kentucky but served most of his career in this state, where he tried to subvert radical reconstruction. The Brooks-Baxter War took place between local Unionists and Northern migrants in this state's Republican party.
After setting up his influential law firm, Rose was sent by President Roosevelt to a 1907 conference in this European city which, along with an 1899 convention held in the same city and the Geneva Conventions, set terms for international warfare.
This 2016 presidential candidate became the first female partner of the Rose Law Firm while her husband Bill was serving as Arkansas Attorney General.
Arkansas
The Hague [accept Den Haag, 's Gravenhage]
Hillary Rodham Clinton [prompt on Clinton]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Jackson&gt;
In the 1990s, members of one of these groups refused to wear DC shoes, while another refused to use computers with MS-DOS, because both were symbols of the other. For 10 points each:
Identify these two feuding gangs, whose members are known as los numeros and las letras. These gangs originated in Los Angeles, but were spread back to their current base by US deportation policies.
The murder rate in this Central American country, where most members of MS-13 and Barrio 18 originate from, declined after the gangs agreed to a brief truce in 2012.
The murder rate in El Salvador spiked following a government operation whose name contains this adjective this adjective. That initiative was started by the right-wing ARENA party in 2003. This word precedes “beam” in another country's planned defense program that will rely heavily on fiber lasers.
MS-13 and Barrio 18 [or Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street; accept 13 for MS-13; Calle 18 or La 18 or Mara 18 for Barrio 18]
El Salvador
iron [or Iron Fist; or Iron Beam]  &lt;Current Events Non-US - Bentley&gt;
Marion Barry, a student at Fisk University, was elected the first chairman of this group. For 10 points each:
Name this civil rights group once led by Stokely Carmichael. This group opted to stay autonomous to avoid the emergence of the “Moses-type leader” common in religious civil rights groups like the SCLC.
The SNCC was founded at the beginning of this decade, during which the Civil Rights Act was passed and Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated.
This woman encouraged students to found the SNCC after inviting them to an SCLC meeting. This civil rights activist co-founded In Friendship with Stanley Levison and Bayard Rustin.
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee [or SNCC (snick)]
1960s [or sixties]
Ella Baker &lt;History American (1945-present) - French&gt;
Identify the following about the changing role of women in Japan, for 10 points each.
The ideal of ryosai kenbo or “Good Wife, Wise Mother” was promoted during the reign of this emperor, whose namesake restoration ended the Tokugawa Shogunate.
After the second world war, the “Kyariauman” (kyaria-ooman) developed as a female analogue to this group of stereotypically overworked, white-collar professionals who frequently have lifetime jobs at large corporations.
This industry opened to Japanese women in the 1920s, in part from pressure from a “Pure” movement led by novelists like Junichiro Tanizaki. Nikkatsu is the oldest Japanese company in this industry still in operation.
Meiji Emperor [or Emperor Meiji the Great]
salaryman [accept sarariman]
film [or movies; or cinema; prompt on entertainment]  &lt;History World - Bentley&gt;
Before his execution, this nobleman was accused of blasphemy, homosexuality, and spitting on the cross, and confessed to all the charges except the one of homosexuality. For 10 points each,
Name this last leader of the Knights Templar, who was burned at the stake after his order was banned by Pope Clement V.
Jacques de Molay was executed by a monarch of this name nicknamed “The Fair”; another French monarch of this name was nicknamed “Augustus” and defeated King John of England in a series of wars.
According to this secret society's lore, de Molay was executed for refusing to surrender wealth he found in the Temple of Solomon, thus leading this organization, said to have originated from bricklayers at the Temple, to go underground until the 18th century.
Jacques de Molay
Philip [accept Philippe, Philip the Fair, Philip IV, Philippe le Bel, Philip II, or Philip Augustus]
Freemasons [accept Scottish Rite Freemasonry]  &lt;History European to 1400 - Myers&gt;
The Dutch engineer Cornelius Vermuyden used wind pumps to accomplish this project. For 10 points each:
Name this process that opened much of East Anglia up to settlement. A book by Eric Ash titled for this process is the leading work on it.
The Pontine Marshes, which are located outside this city, were drained in the 1930s to prevent malaria. The Appian Way traversed the Marshes after leaving this city, its Northern terminus.
These structures, the largest of which is Flevoland, were built in the Netherlands, often using dykes, to create more arable land.
draining of the fens
Rome [accept Roma]
polders  &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
A mayor nicknamed the “dictator” of this city, Orville Hubbard, used techniques to keep this city segregated like having the fire department perform “checks” at black-owned houses every hour until the inhabitants left. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose newspaper, the Independent, published a series of articles about “the international Jew” after its purchase by an anti-Semitic businessman.
On Henry Ford's direction, the Dearborn Independent published one of the first English translations of this text, which purported to be a Russian spy's transcript of a meeting of Jewish community leaders.
Dearborn is regarded as a center of this immigrant community in the US due to Ford's recruiting of members of sects such as the Maronites and Chaldeans to work at his plants. Due to the pre-existing prevalence of this immigrant group, Dearborn later became a top destination for Muslim immigrants more generally.
Dearborn, Michigan [do NOT accept Detroit]
The Protocols of the Elders of Zion
Arab-Americans  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
This city was slated to fight an army from Alba Longa, but the Alban leader Mettius Fufetius betrayed Rome after waiting in the mountains to see if Rome would lose its battle with the Veientes. For 10 points each:
Identify this city, whom Romulus also defeated by storming its gates. A wooden stadium in this city built by Atulius burned down in 27 AD.
According to Livy, the second war with the Fidenae occurred during the reign of Tullus Hostilius, whose reign saw the birth of these triplet warriors. Livy also detailed their fight with the Curiatii during a war against the Albans.
Tullus pursued a militant foreign policy partially inspired by his grandfather Hostus. Hostus had been part of the founding generation of Rome, who kidnapped the women of these people in a namesake “rape.” Those women later engage in an “intervention” to stop a battle between the Romans and these people.
Fidenae
Horatii
Sabines [or Sabini]  &lt;RMP Greek/Roman Myth - Hijazi&gt;
Answer the following about 20th century Caribbean leaders, for 10 points each:
Since he suspected that a rival transfigured himself into a black dog, this dictator ordered all black dogs in his country to be put to death. This dictator and houngan claimed to have killed John F. Kennedy by placing a curse on him.
Papa Doc's friend, Fulgencio Batista, was overthrown as President of Cuba by this communist revolutionary. US-backed forces attempted to oust this dictator in the Bay of Pigs invasion.
The “Bayou of Pigs” invasion, on the other hand, is the name given to a 1981 white supremacist-backed plot to overthrow Eugenia Charles, then the Prime Minister of this country, and restore her predecessor, the former soccer player and army colonel Patrick John.
François Duvalier [or Papa Doc Duvalier; prompt on Duvalier]
Fidel Castro
Dominica [do not accept “Dominican Republic”]  &lt;History World - French&gt;
This machine did not immediately replace the cottage industry, since it could only produce a long, coarse thread. For 10 points each:
Name this machine, developed by Richard Arkwright. Samuel Crompton combined it with James Hargeaves' spinning jenny to create the spinning mule.
The water frame was one of many new devices produced during this technological “revolution” that occurred around the turn of the 19th century.
This Industrial Revolution engineer designed a tunnel beneath the Thames. He also led the construction of the Great Western Railway.
water frame [or spinning frame]
Industrial Revolution [accept Second Industrial Revolution]
Isambard Kingdom Brunel &lt;History European 1400-1914 - French&gt;
Eugene Genovese's <em>Roll, Jordan, Roll</em> is subtitled for “the world that” people in this condition “made”. For 10 points each:
Name this condition also studied in historical works such as Ira Berlin's Many Thousands Gone. Eric Foner's most famous work covers the period immediately after its abolition.
The methods of this subdiscipline were applied to slavery in Robert Fogel's Time on the Cross, which was published as a response to Roll, Jordan, Roll. This subdiscipline co-founded by Fogel and named for a Muse applies economic methods to the study of history.
This author of From Slavery to Freedom and Reconstruction: After the Civil War, a professor at Duke University, helped prepare a pivotal legal brief in favor of the plaintiffs in Brown v. Board of Education. This man also served as the first black president of the American Historical Association.
slavery [accept being a slave]
Cliometrics
John Hope Franklin &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
A man named Manjiro is the first known person of this ethnicity to immigrate to the United States. For 10 points each:
Manjiro was born in this country before getting shipwrecked and rescued by American seaman. This country was closed to most external trade under the Tokugawa Shogunate.
The John Howland brought Manjiro to this Massachusetts city, a center of the US whaling industry in the 19th century. This city on Massachusetts's south coast has one of the United States' largest Portuguese communities.
After returning to Japan, Manjiro passed on his western knowledge to Iwasaki Yataro, who founded Mitsubishi, one of the first of these companies. This Japanese term means “wealthy clique” and also included Mitsui.
Empire of Japan [or Nippon]
New Bedford
zaibatsu &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Bentley&gt;
This man served as the only leader of the Septinsular Republic before becoming Russia's Foreign Minister. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who cautioned Prince Alexander Ypsilantis against starting one revolt before becoming the first Prime Minister of the country that revolt established.
After Kapodistrias was assassinated, Greece became a kingdom led by Otto, who introduced a period known as “rule by” people from this German state, where a later ruler built the Castle of Neuschwanstein.
Kapodistrias became a supporter of independence for Greece from this empire after its forces lynched the Greek Orthodox patriarch of its capital, Constantinople.
Ioannis Kapodistrias [accept John for Ioannis]
Bavaria [accept Bayern]
Ottoman Empire  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
Before it narrowly failed, one state legislature argued against one proposal to abolish this by claiming that if it had not existed, Jesus would not have been able to die for mankind's sins. For 10 points each:
Name this policy whose aim is carried out in the United States using lethal injections, firing squad, or gas chambers.
That attempt to repeal the death penalty failed in this state, where eccentric billionaire Foster Friess lost a primary challenge to now-governor Mark Gordon, who succeeded Matt Mead.
Andru Volinsky, a member of this New Hampshire-unique governing body, accused governor Chris Sununu of violating the state constitution for not consulting it before vetoing a bill to repeal the death penalty. This five-member body controls the state national guard and can pass vetoes of its own.
death penalty [accept capital punishment]
Wyoming
Executive Council of New Hampshire  &lt;Current Events US - Myers&gt;
“The strong do what they can, while the weak suffer what they must” is a quote that Thucydides attributes to Athenians in this dialogue. For 10 points each.
Name this dialogue in which the citizens of its namesake island argue for why it should be independent from Athens. It ends with Athenians killing all of the island's inhabitants.
Thucydides recorded what he felt needed to be said in the situations he described, rather than what was actually said, in contrast to this historian from Halicarnassus, who is known as the “father of history” and largely wrote factual transcripts of speeches.
Another dialogue occurs in Thucydides history of the Peloponnesian War concerning this city on the island of Lesbos. The Athenian politician Cleon wanted this city's population to be executed, while the Athenian politician Diodotus argues for the lives of the people of this city.
Melian Dialogue [accept Melos]
Herodotus of Halicarnassus
Mytilene [accept Mytilenean Debate]  &lt;History European to 1400 - Jankov&gt;
This foreign minister of Brazil and son of a prime minister with the same name added formerly French, Argentine, and Bolivian territory to Brazil by annexing Acre and winning two different arbitrations. For 10 points each,
Name this nobleman credited with formulating the doctrine that has dominated Brazilian foreign policy thought since the early 20th century.
Brazil's frontier was also expanded by these adventurers who conquered Indian territory in the Brazilian interior. They are named for the Portuguese word for “flag”.
Another expansion of Brazilian territory, this time at the expense of Paraguay, took place after this war, in which the namesake league of Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay defeated Francisco Solano Lopez.
Jose Maria da Silva Paranhos Junior, Viscount of Rio Branco [accept either]
bandeirantes
War of the Triple Alliance [accept Paraguayan War, Guerra de la Triple Alianza, Guerra Guasu, Guerra do Paraguai]  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
Patrick Radden Keefe's book <em>Say Nothing</em> chronicles the kidnapping and murder of Jean McConville in this region. For 10 points each:
Name this region where groups like the Provisional IRA and Ulster Volunteer Force clashed during The Troubles.
Keefe's book relies in part on an oral history project conducted by Ed Moloney, Anthony McIntyre, and Wilson MacArthur in collaboration with this university's Burns Library. After the researchers published some of those interviews in Voices from the Grave, this university was subpoenaed for the remaining tapes.
The Boston tapes supposedly implicated this longtime leader of Sinn Féin in McConville's kidnapping, for which he was briefly arrested in 2014. This leader has long claimed, rather implausibly, that he was never a member of the IRA.
Northern Ireland [reluctantly accept Ulster]
Boston College [do not accept “Boston University”, prompt on Boston]
Gerry Adams [or Gerard Adams; Gearóid Mac Ádhaimh]  &lt;History European 1914-present - Kothari&gt;
This leader of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation used an analogy involving a cream separator that yielded skim milk for workers and cream for bosses to explain his views on class. For 10 points each:
Name this premier of Saskatchewan, an ex-priest who led North America's first socialist government.
Douglas introduced a plan with this name that instituted universal healthcare in Saskatchewan and would later be copied federally. An American Great Society program with this name would later be expanded under George W. Bush's “Part D” program.
Douglas would later be one of the early leaders of this leftist Canadian party that currently governs British Columbia. This party was led in more recent years by Jack Layton and Jagmeet Singh.
Tommy Douglas [accept Thomas Clement Douglas]
Medicare
New Democratic Party  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
The first European tram system was built in this city, and it is home to the only extant Sephardic Haggadah. For 10 points each:
Name this city on the Miljacka (meel-yats-ka) river, where the first Winter Olympics held in a socialist country were held in 1984.
Sarajevo is within this mountain range that extends from Italy through the Balkans. Its highest peak is Maja Jezercë (mah-yah yeh-zurts-uh) in Albania.
Franz Ferdinand was assassinated on one of these structures over the Miljacka River, which was historically described as “Latin” but was temporarily renamed for Gavrilo Princip. Another Bosnian example of these structures built by the Ottomans crosses the Drina in Visegrad.
Sarajevo
Dinaric Alps [or Dinarides]
bridges  &lt;Geography Europe - Dees&gt;
Identify the following about the recently opened Museum of the American Revolution, for 10 points each.
The centerpiece of the museum is George Washington's war tent, which was likely made for him when he was enduring the winter in this Pennsylvania town in early 1778.
The museum contains a replica of the “new constellation” flag that flew over Washington's war headquarters. The flag was later brought into space by this man, who later served as a Senator from Ohio.
This Native American tribe were major backers of the museum. George Washington delivered a 1778 speech commending this tribe for helping recover Boston and Philadelphia, and they were granted autonomy by the 1794 Treaty of Canandaigua.
Valley Forge
John Glenn [or John Herschel Glenn, Jr.]
Oneida Indian Nation  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Bentley&gt;
In the majority opinion for <em>Gideon v Wainwright</em>, Hugo Black declared it an “obvious truth” that any given person “cannot be assured of a fair trial unless counsel is provided for him” since the US criminal justice operates in this sort of legal system. For 10 points each:
Name this type of court system in which two sides present their case before an impartial judge or jury. It is contrasted with the inquisitorial system common in civil law jurisdictions.
Civil law is contrasted with this system, one variant of which is named for England, in which disputes over law are resolved by referring to precedent.
Adversarial systems often define the standard of proof with reference to reasonable doubt, as justified by this man's statement “It is better that ten guilty persons escape than that one innocent suffer.” That ratio appears in this scholar's Commentaries on the Laws of England.
adversarial system [or adversary system]
common law [prompt on case law]
William Blackstone &lt;Social Science Misc - Smith&gt;
One biography of this man describes how, motivated by a theory that African-Americans hated cold water, he kept swimming pools in black neighborhoods significantly colder than white ones. For 10 points each,
Name this man who created a secretive branch of government called “triborough” accountable only to himself and enjoyed almost completely free rein as an urban planner, as chronicled in the biography The Power Broker.
The Power Broker was written by Robert Caro, who has won two National Book Awards for his biography series of this president, one of whose volumes is titled All the Way in an echo of one of this president's campaign slogans.
A rare challenge to Robert Moses's power came when this pioneering urban planning theorist and author of The Death and Life of Great American Cities organized Greenwich (Gren-itch) Village residents to prevent the construction of an expressway there.
Robert Moses
Lyndon Baines Johnson [accept LBJ, prompt on Johnson]
Jane Jacobs &lt;History American (1945-present) - Myers&gt;
The King Marko Krajlevic <strong>(Cry-ev-each)</strong> was mythologized to have a 300 year lifespan and to have confronted the Ottoman Turks during their occupation of his home country. For ten points each:
Marko Krajlevic is part of the mythological folklore and epic poetry of this country, where the city Belgrade lies on the banks of the Danube.
One of the heroes that accompanied Marko in epic poetry was Miloš Obilić (MEE-lohsh AW-beel-each) who supposedly snuck into this sultan's tent and assassinated him. This sultan conquered Adrianople, renamed it Edirne, and moved the capital of the Ottoman Empire there.
This 1389 Battle was the site of a confrontation between the Serbian nobleman Vuk Brankovic and the Ottoman Sultan Murad I. Although the result of this battle was tactically inconclusive, both sides lost so many men that it was devastating for the less populous Serbs.
Serbia
Murad I [accept Hüdavendigar]
Battle of Kosovo &lt;History European to 1400 - Jankov&gt;
Answer the following about the Church's influence on post-independence Irish politics. For 10 points each:
After independence in Ireland, the church was authorized to place unwed mothers and prostitutes in these institutions named for a biblical figure at which they performed slave labor for attached abbeys.
This long-serving Irish leader both wrote, in 1937, and repealed, in 1973, article 44 of the Irish constitution, which acknowledged the church's “special position” in Irish society. This leader of Fianna Fail served 4 separate terms as Ireland's leader.
The Church blocked and campaigned against the repeal of Article 9 of the Irish constitution for decades. Article 9, which banned this practice, was struck down by a referendum in 2018. This practice's legality is protected by Roe v. Wade in the United States.
Magdalene Laundries
Eamon de Valera [prompt on partial surname]
abortion &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
This leader issued an anti-bureaucratic manifesto that doubled as a declaration of war against the sultan of Gobir, Yunfa, after Yunfa took Muslim prisoners-of-war. For 10 points each,
Name this cleric and war leader who was succeeded by his son, Muhammad Bello, who appointed himself the first ruler of a new caliphate.
dan Fodio and other radical clerics made up the administration of the Sokoto caliphate, which switched its language of administration from Arabic to this local language after his death. Emirs in cities like Kano and Maiduguri are important leaders among speakers of this language, who would later clash with Igbo and Yoruba during the Census Crisis.
The states established by dan Fodio and other reformers such as Umar Tall are often named for this concept from Islamic theology, often translated as “struggle” or “holy war”, since they often couched their attacks on established rulers in terms of this concept.
Usman dan Fodio [accept either]
Hausa [accept Fulani]
jihad &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
In speaking about one of these animals, a man shouts “Damn it, how he nicks 'em!” For 10 points each:
Name this animal which bites a man's hip in a cartoon, prompting the victim to scream “Oh! This cursed Ograbme (oh-grab-me)!” General George Meade was also nicknamed after an “old” one of these animals.
The turtle and “Ograbme” were used by the cartoonist to mock this 1807 law of the Jefferson presidency blocking trade with foreign nations, including Britain. This law superseded the Non-Intercourse Act.
Tensions between the U.S. and Britain mounted after the British ship Leopard fired on the Chesapeake, an American ship commanded by this man. Court-martialed after the incident, this man later killed Stephen Decatur in a duel.
snapping turtle
Embargo Act of 1807
James Barron &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Cheyne&gt;
You are a member of a black family planning a driving vacation in the mid-20th century. Answer the following about some places you could go. For 10 points each:
You might plan a vacation to this non-California state's all-black resort city of Idlewild, which was nicknamed “the black Eden” for its luxurious accommodations and racial tolerance. This state's towns of Climax and Royal Oak, however, are “sundown towns”, which do not allow non-whites within city limits after dark.
For a list of safe places to stay during your drive, you can consult a book named for this color. A mountain range named for this color runs through Vermont and contains safe hotels such as the Pales in Burlington.
You could also stay at one of the country's first black-owned hotels, this city's European Hotel, which was opened by Col. Wesley Redding in 1895 for a Cotton Exhibition in this city. While there, you could visit this city's historically black Morehouse College.
Michigan
Green
Atlanta &lt;Geography US - Myers&gt;
Evidence of work with this material has been uncovered at Los Millares in Spain. For 10 points each:
Name this material, which began to be worked at the end of the Neolithic period. The Chalcolithic period is sometimes named for this material.
Along with tin, copper is a component of this alloy. The Copper Age gave way to the age named for this alloy, which itself gave way to the Iron Age.
This Copper age culture occupied much of Northern and Eastern Europe until it was supplanted by the Beaker culture. This culture is named for the rope-like impressions on its pottery.
copper
bronze [accept Bronze Age]
Corded Ware culture [or CWC]  &lt;History European to 1400 - French&gt;
This man names a war in which much of modern West Virginia was annexed from Iroquois leaders including Logan and Cornstalk. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who also issued a proclamation in which he offered freedom to slaves who fought in his “Ethiopian Regiment”
After the Ethiopian Regiment disbanded, one of its leaders, Titus Cornelius, nicknamed “Colonel Tye”, fought at this New Jersey battle, at which a woman nicknamed “Molly Pitcher” manned her husband's cannon while bringing American troops water.
Members of the Ethiopian Regiment were resettled after the war in this Canadian province, where the collision of two ammunition ships would later cause one of history's largest non-nuclear explosions in the capital of Halifax.
John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore [accept either underlined portion, accept Lord Dunmore's War]
Battle of Monmouth
Nova Scotia &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Myers&gt;
48 members of The US 9th Infantry were killed in the Balangiga massacre in this present day country. For 10 points each:
Name this modern day country whose last United States High Commissioner was Paul McNutt, and which gained independence after the Treaty of Manila.
This United States general carried out the Moro Crater Massacre on Mindanao during the Philippine Insurrection. Earlier in the Spanish-American War, he had commanded the Rough Riders along with Theodore Roosevelt.
This man was brought back to the Philippines by George Dewey but was later captured by Frederick Funston. He was a member of the Katipunan revolutionary society and served as the Philippines' first president in 1899.
The Philippines
Leonard Wood
Emilio Aguinaldo &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Hawkins&gt;
The Trades Disputes Act was passed to prevent a recurrence of this event, and Stanley Baldwin attempted to defuse this event by giving a radio address in which he claimed “I am a man of peace.” For 10 points each:
The Organization for Maintenance of Supplies was founded to undermine this event, which was met with military force after it threatened winter coal supplies.
During the General Strike, this chancellor of the Exchequer declared “I refuse to equivocate between the fire brigade and the fire” in advocating harsh measures to suppress the strike. He had earlier resigned as First Lord of the Admiralty after the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign.
This Prime Minister reinstituted the Trades Disputes Act after facing a mineworker's strike led by Arthur Scargill. This prime minister was succeeded by John Major after her ouster as leader of the Conservative Party.
1926 British General Strike
Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill
Margaret Thatcher &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
The term for these people was popularized in England by an 1839 Philip Meadows Taylor book titled for the <em>Confessions</em> of one of them. For 10 points each:
Identify these people who formed gangs that committed widespread murder and robbery in British India. William Sleeman's Ramaseeana spread the idea that these people belonged to a cult of Kali-worshippers.
Some of the most frequent targets for thugs were these Indian soldiers in the employ of the British East India Company. These soldiers engaged in a major “mutiny” in 1857 after hearing rumors that they would have to use gun cartridges greased with cow and pig fat.
Much of the British anti-thuggee legislation drew from this earlier British official's Article 35, which punished dacoity by turning dacoits' families into “slaves of the state.” This man was later impeached but acquitted of corruption as Governor of Bengal.
thugs [or phansigars; accept thuggee; accept Confessions of a Thug]
sepoys
Warren Hastings &lt;History World - Kothari&gt;
Lewis Hine took a series of photographs of this practice, including one of “breaker boys” in a Pennsylvania coal mine, that turned public opinion against it. For 10 points each:
Name this activity that was attacked by the Keating-Owen act and opposed by a march to Theodore Roosevelt's summer home organized by Mother Jones in which marchers held signs reading “we want time to play”.
The Keating-Owen act lost much of its power in this case, in which a North Carolina father sued after his son was prohibited from working in a cotton mill.
Hammer is considered part of a business-friendly era of jurisprudence named for this 1905 Supreme Court case in which a state law limiting bakers' work hours was struck down.
child labor [accept equivalents]
Hammer v. Dagenhart [accept either]
Lochner v. New York &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
In his book <em>Socialist Empire</em>, Louis Baudin argues that this empire established a proto-Stalinist system that systematically dehumanized its subjects. For 10 points each,
Name this empire that practiced mass deportations of groups like the Wanka and Cayambe and built communal granaries to store foods like chuno.
Another massive Inca public works project involved the building of these structures, which crossed rivers using massive cable bridges and were serviced by inns called tampu. These structures were used by conscripted runners called chaski.
The Inca Empire's government was dominated by these familial organizations founded upon each emperor's death, which administrated his properties, controlled private armies, and were a frequent way for royal women to exert influence over the empire.
Inca Empire [accept Tawantinsuyu]
roads
panaqa &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
One president of this institution, Charles Grandison Finney, brought with him a “Great Tent” to the 1848 Free Soil and Liberty conventions in Ohio where abolitionist speeches were given. For 10 points each:
Identify this first co-educational college in the United States.
Earlier in his career, Finney led revivals in Rochester, New York as part of this period during the early 19th century that produced the “burned-over district.”
Oberlin received a large grant from Charles Hall, who developed an inexpensive method for producing this product. In a 1945 decision, Judge Learned Hand ruled that a company that had a monopoly over production of this good was subject to antitrust laws.
Oberlin College [or Oberlin Collegiate Institute]
Second Great Awakening
aluminum [the company was Alcoa]  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Bentley&gt;
Law professor John Pfaff has argued that overreach from these people has been the largest contributor to the growing prison population in the US. For 10 points each:
Identify these legal officials who have the power to offer plea bargains. They also decide what charges to press for.
This New York Times Magazine journalist and co-host of the Slate Political Gabfest podcast explored prosecutorial overreach in her 2019 book Charged.
In an earlier book, Bazelon examined the culture of this title practice, expanding on a story she wrote about how this practice affected a teen named Phoebe Prince. The group STOMP Out agitates against this practice.
prosecutors [or District Attorneys; or DAs; or state's attorney; or US attorney]
Emily Bazelon
bullying [or cyberbullying]  &lt;Current Events US - Bentley&gt;
This organization, which was formally named “unity or death”, may have plotted the assassination of the liberal King Alexander and his wife, Draga. For 10 points each:
Name this organization that was supported by Alexander's successor as de facto leader, Prince Alexander the Unifier. This organization opposed the governorship of Oskar Potiorek.
This leader of the Black Hand, an army officer nicknamed for his “bullish” appearance, is often held responsible for the beginning of World War I.
The Black Hand's most famous action was the assassination of this Archduke, who was the heir to the Austrian throne before he was killed in Sarajevo.
Black Hand
Dragutin Dimitrijevic [accept Apis]
Franz Ferdinand [prompt on Franz]  &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
This leader signalled the beginning of the rebellion that brought him to power by using runners to send out knotted cords to neighboring towns. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who expelled Spanish missionaries and restored the ritual use of katsina dolls after a 1680 revolt made him the leader of a state centered on Ohkay Owingeh.
Popé led a revolt named for these people native to modern New Mexico, who lived in namesake “towns” that often featured cliff dwellings.
Pekka Hämäläinen (Ha-ma-lie-nen) argues that after the Pueblo Revolt, Spanish New Mexico functioned as a tributary of this Native American group. This group led by Quanah Parker established an empire in the Southwest before their power was broken when Texan forces killed their leadership at a peace meeting in the Council House Fight.
Popé (Po-PAY) [accept Po'pay]
Pueblo [or Puebloans; accept Anasazi, Tewa]
Comanche [accept Comancheria, Numunuu]  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - French&gt;
J. Anthony Lukas described the experience of the Twymon, McGoff and Divers families, who experienced busing in this city, in his book <em>Common Ground</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this city in which W. Arthur Garrity laid the foundation for a program of compulsory busing in Morgan v. Hennigan.
The anti-busing protests in Boston saw Joseph Rakes attack Ted Landsmark with one of these objects, as depicted in the photograph The Soiling of Old Glory.
This Massachusetts senator was criticized for supporting busing but sending his children to private schools. After a failed presidential challenge, this man gave the “Dream Shall Never Die” speech.
Boston, Massachusetts
American flag
Edward “Ted” Kennedy [accept ”Ted” Kennedy]  &lt;History American (1945-present) - Jackson&gt;
This leader signed the Treaty of Resht with Russia and looted the Peacock Throne from Delhi. For 10 points each:
Name this leader whose idolization of prior conquerors such as Genghis Khan and Tamerlane led him to invade India and the Ottoman Empire in the mid-18th century
Nader fought a battle against a Mughal vassal state while marching across this pass, which separates modern Afghanistan and Pakistan. His victory there allowed him to conquer much of Northern India.
Ahmad Shah, the first leader of this empire, declared independence from Nader Shah once his grip on his empire began to weaken. This empire is considered a predecessor state of modern Afghanistan and fought the Maratha confederacy at the Third Battle of Panipat.
Nader Shah
Khyber Pass
Durrani empire [or Sadozai kingdom]  &lt;History World - French&gt;
Salum Bar'wani was the first MP elected to his country's parliament from this group. For 10 points each:
Name this group, frequently targeted by hate crimes in East Africa so that witch doctors can harvest their body parts, which are thought to have magic powers. The first beauty pageant exclusively for people of this group took place in Nairobi in December 2018.
Salum Bar'wani was elected to parliament in this country, where he represents a party that opposes President John Magufuli in an assembly at Dodoma.
Besides witch doctor killings, albinos in East Africa are also affected by this nomadic ethnic group's tradition of infanticide of albino babies. This ethnic group, whose traditional shields are depicted on the Kenyan flag, names a national park in Kenya contiguous with Tanzania's Serengeti.
albinos [accept people with albinism]
Tanzania
Maasai &lt;Current Events Non-US - Myers&gt;
<em>Description acceptable</em> For his actions towards this goal, Dimitar Peshev was posthumously known as “Righteous Among the Nations.” For 10 points each:
Name this goal that was achieved in opposition to Alexander Belev during World War II. Bishop Kiril supposedly stood in front of trains to help achieve this goal, whose accomplishment was unique in Nazi-allied countries.
This tsar of Bulgaria during World War II was convinced to change his mind and protect his country's Jews. This ruler came to power by defeating the Zveno movement.
After allying with the Nazis, Boris III's government took control of the this modern-day country. A naming dispute with Greece resolved in 2019 has long barred this country's accession to NATO.
saving Bulgarian Jews from the Holocaust [accept anything about preventing Jews from Bulgaria being deported for the Holocaust or concentration camps; prompt on answers that don't mention Bulgaria with “from what country?”]
Boris III [prompt on Boris]
Republic of North Macedonia &lt;History European 1914-present - Shanmugam&gt;
In his book <em>Seeing Like a State</em>, James Scott accuses this leader, among others, of following an ideology of “High Modernism” to the detriment of his subjects. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who collaborated with Kenneth Kaunda and the Chinese government to build the Tazana Railroad and prosecuted the Kagera War against his Western neighbor.
Seeing Like a State uses the establishment of these structures as an example of its title phenomenon. These structures were preceded by collectives built by the Ruvuma Development Corporation, and a policy of population relocation to these places was announced in the Arusha Declaration.
Nyerere was the first president of this country, which was created by the unification of a British colony on mainland Africa with the sultanate of Zanzibar.
Julius Nyerere
ujamaa villages [prompt on villages]
United Republic of Tanzania &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
This character holds a scepter in his right hand and a veto in his left hand. For 10 points each:
Name this satirical character, who wears a crown and fancy robes. The phrases “Had I been consulted” and “Born to command” surround the frame of the cartoon in which this character appears.
In the cartoon, King Andrew stands on top of the constitution and “internal improvements” of this institution. Andrew Jackson fought a so-called “war” against this institution when it was led by Nicholas Biddle.
Jackson's defeat of the bank led to the proliferation of state banks that issued unbacked paper money. This edict, which was carried out by Levi Woodbury, demanded payment for land in gold and silver in an attempt to fix that problem. However, this edict instead likely caused the economic Panic of 1837.
King Andrew the First [or King Andrew the First; prompt on Andrew or Andrew Jackson]
Second Bank of the United States [or BUS]
Specie Circular &lt;History American (pre-1865) - French&gt;
Unlike the rest of the country that controls it, this region was colonized by Portugal before it was awarded to France at the Berlin Conference. For 10 points each:
Name this region home to the Jola ethnic group, which is waging a long-running separatist rebellion under the MFDC. It is separated from the Northern part of its country by the Gambia.
Casamance is attempting to separate from this country, whose “four communes,” including Saint-Louis, Goree, and Dakar, were granted representation in the French parliament under colonialism.
The Jola of Casamance complain of oppression by this majority ethnic group of Senegal. This ethnic group is the namesake of a pre-colonial kingdom that controlled most of coastal Senegal.
Casamance [prompt on, but do not reveal Senegal or Southern Senegal]
Republic of Senegal
Wolof [accept Jolof]  &lt;Geography World - Myers&gt;
The effects of this military action were only reversed by the 1961 Operation Vijay. For 10 points each:
Name this action that Timoji suggested to Afonso de Albuquerque in 1510, which involved a military defeat of Ismail Adil Shah's forces.
Timoji had earlier assisted the Portuguese at this battle, in which Portugal's navy defeated a combined force drawn from the navies of Gujarat, Calicut, and the Mamluks. Portugal's dominance in the area around this battle was eventually broken after Captain Best defeated them at the Battle of Swally.
Much of the framework for the conquest of Goa and Battle of Diu were laid by this Portuguese explorer, the first European to sail to India via the Cape of Good Hope. He established an early spice route between the two countries.
Portuguese conquest of Goa [accept answers indicating that Goa was defeated militarily or turned into a colony of Portugal]
Battle of Diu
Vasco da Gama, 1st Count of Vidigueira  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Shanmugam&gt;
Three members of this organization were killed after they accidentally set off a bomb in the basement of a Manhattan townhouse. For 10 points each:
Name this radical left-wing domestic terrorist group. This group claimed credit for several bombings of U.S. government and military buildings, which they claimed were retaliation for things such as the invasion of Laos and the bombing of Hanoi.
The Weather Underground was founded at this university, a center of the counterculture movement. The first “teach-in” was organized by Students for a Democratic Society at this university.
The original name of the Weathermen came from the lyric “you don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows” from this singer's “Subterranean Homesick Blues.” This folk musician also wrote “The Times They Are A Changin'.”
Weather Underground [or the Weatherman or the Weathermen]
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]  &lt;History American (1945-present) - French&gt;
The archaeologist Bradley Lepper discovered a “great road” named for this culture, which led out from one of its centers at Newark. For 10 points each:
Name this culture succeeded by the Fort Ancient and preceded by the Adena culture, which had subgroups named for Havana and Crab Orchard and built a massive octagonal earthwork that may have been used as a lunar calendar.
The Hopewell culture built many of these structures for burial. The largest of these structures in the United States is a “Great Serpent” one also located at Newark.
Monks Mound, named for Capuchin friars who camped on top of it, overlooked the central plaza of this massive pre-Columbian city in modern East St. Louis. This city was the center of a “Mississippian” trading network that extended as far as Canada and Florida.
Hopewell Culture
mounds
Cahokia &lt;History American (pre-1865) - French&gt;
The general Flavius Stilicho fought off invasions of these people before they sacked Rome in 410 under their leader, Alaric. For 10 points each:
Identify this Germanic tribe which established a kingdom in the Iberian peninsula after separating from the “Ostro” branch of their people.
During the sack, Alaric captured Galla Placidia, the sister of this Western Roman emperor, who was reportedly relieved that hear that his pet chicken, also named Rome, was alive. Had Stilicho not been executed in 408, Rome may not have been sacked as soon as it was.
This saint asked, “if Rome can perish, what can be safe?” in a letter written during the invasion. His letters to St. Marcella, who died in Rome during the sack, are the best known sources for her life.
Visigoths
Flavius Honorius Augustus
St. Jerome &lt;History European to 1400 - Hijazi&gt;
This Prime Minister was implicated in the murder of the journalist Carmine Pecorelli, and his close links to the mafia were investigated in the Maxi trial. For 10 points each,
Name this Prime Minister of Italy who served three terms in office between 1972 and 1992, a Christian Democrat who feuded with the leader of this country's Socialist Party, Bettino Craxi.
In 1983, this former prime minister from Andreotti's party was kidnapped by the Red Brigades on the day of a confidence vote in a new Andreotti government. This politician was killed after a papal mediation mission failed and his ransom was not paid.
The Clean Hands campaign, which led to the collapse of most major Italian parties as their leaders were charged with corruption, helped enable the rise of this media mogul and Prime Minister's Forza Italia Party. This Prime Minister, noted for his “Bunga Bunga” parties while in office, was himself convicted of corruption in 2011.
Giulio Andreotti
Aldo Moro
Silvio Berlusconi &lt;History European 1914-present - Jackson&gt;
After a failed bid against Charles V for control of the Holy Roman Empire in 1519, this man fought a series of wars against Charles that included this man's capture at the Battle of Pavia. For 10 points each:
Name this French monarch. This man formed a long-lasting Franco-Ottoman alliance after diplomatic talks with Suleiman the Magnificent.
Before allying with Suleiman, Francis met with another monarch at this tournament field in an unsuccessful attempt to gain English support against Charles V. The lavish summit here was planned by Cardinal Thomas Wolsey.
This English king met with Francis at the Cloth of Gold. Francis supported this Tudor king's separation from the Catholic Church in order to marry Anne Boleyn.
Francis I [prompt on “Francis”]
Field of the Cloth of Gold [or Camp du Drap d'Or]
Henry VIII [prompt on “Henry”]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Husar&gt;
One region split into kingdoms known by this word after the decline of the Almoravid Sultanate. For 10 points each:
Name these kingdoms that included Seville, Granada, and Zaragoza whose fighting provided the opening for the conquest of several cities by their Christian neighbors.
A mononymous English chronicler named Raol wrote the most complete account of the capture of this city from the taifa of Badajoz. Afonso Henriques changed his title from Count to King shortly before the 1147 capture of this city.
The capture of Lisbon was part of this series of wars that involved the expansion of Christian kingdoms on the Iberian Peninsula at the expense of Muslim ones.
taifa [accept tawa'if, prompt on emirate]
Lisbon [accept Lisboa]
reconquista [accept reconquest]  &lt;History European to 1400 - Myers&gt;
Because of this man's vigorous enforcement of film patents, more French-made films appeared on American movie screens from 1906 to 1909 than American-made ones. For 10 points each:
Identify this man who set up a facility for inventions in Menlo Park, New Jersey.
Although motion pictures were first viewed in individual peep show devices, films reached larger audiences at these establishments, named for their low price.
This co-founder of MGM got his start running a nickelodeon and a vaudeville theatre nicknamed the Garlic Box. He merged his business with the Goldwyn Pictures Corporation in 1924.
Thomas Edison [or Thomas Alva Edison]
nickelodeons
Louis B. Mayer [or Louis Burt Mayer; or Lazar Meir; or Eliezer Mayer]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Bentley&gt;
A rhyming slogan coined by Edward Lansdale declared that this leader “is my guy”. For 10 points each:
Name this president who was killed in a 1954 plane crash, which led his land reform agenda to fail and much of his progress in defeating the Huk insurgency to be rolled back.
This other president's husband, Benigno, was appointed as a special envoy to the Huks by Magsaysay. His assassination in 1983 made this politician a prominent figure of opposition to Ferdinand Marcos.
The Huks were a Communist guerrilla group headquartered on this largest and most populous Philippine island, which contains the cities of Manila and Quezon City.
Ramon Magsaysay
Corazon Aquino
Luzon &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
This leader defended property qualifications for voting by telling poor people to “just get rich”. For 10 points each:
Name this French prime minister who banned the Campaign of the Banquets and was removed in favor of Adolphe Thiers (Tee-ay) in a Revolution in 1848.
Guizot is often compared to this reactionary statesman, who passed the Carlsbad Decrees after the assassination of August von Kotzebue and organized the removal of the Gottingen Seven.
The most prominent example of such a comparison comes at the beginning of this text, which pairs Metternich and Guizot with the pope and the tsar in a “holy alliance” dedicated to “exorcising” the specter of its title concept.
Francois Guizot (Gee-zo)
Prince Klemens von Metternich
The Communist Manifesto [accept Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
The first major post-WWII leader of this country is believed to have, in order to save meat during shortages in World War One, invented the first vegetarian sausage. For ten points each:
Name this country, whose “Wirtschaftswunder”, or 'economic miracle', involved worldwide sales of Volkswagen Beetles. It reunited with a Communist neighbour in 1990.
This minister of economics under Konrad Adenauer is often credited with engineering the Economic Miracle. His “social market system” included instituting universal healthcare and including workers in companies' decision-making processes.
Under Adenauer, Germany also joined with France and several other western European countries in an economic community named for these two commodities that preceded the European Union. That community was proposed by French foreign minister Robert Schumann and was opposed by politicians from the industrial Ruhr region.
West Germany [prompt on Germany]
Ludwig Erhard
coal and steel &lt;History European 1914-present - Krol&gt;
Kenau Hasselaer recruited a regiment of 300 women to defend her hometown during this war. For 10 points each:
Name this war during which one side employed “sea beggars” and “hell-burners” against Alessandro Farnese's forces. That side in this war was led by a prince nicknamed “the silent”.
Farnese was proceeded by this governor of the Netherlands, his mother, who attempted to reconcile with the Dutch rebels.
The Dutch declared independence from this kingdom, which was established from the union of Castile and Aragon after the death of Queen Joana the Mad.
Dutch War of Independence [accept Dutch Revolt, Eighty Years' War]
Margaret of Parma [accept Margarita, Margherita, Margarethe]
Kingdom of Spain [accept Reino de España]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
One historian argued that this concept was redefined throughout American history to give legitimacy to all sorts of causes, including both sides of the Civil War. For 10 points each:
Name this concept. The Declaration of Independence places this concept alongside “life” and the “pursuit of happiness” in its list of “certain unalienable rights.”
Give me Liberty, which examined the concept in American history, was written by this Columbia historian and author of histories of 19th century America including The Fiery Trial.
The American obsession with liberty was called a “cult of freedom” in this text. This text advances an argument that the title concept is defined by civil society groups like churches and clubs.
liberty [or freedom]
Eric Foner
Democracy in America &lt;History American (pre-1865) - French&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the radical feminist group known as WITCH:
WITCH originally splintered from another radical feminist group from this state. Members of this state's WITCH coven cast a hex on Wall Street, supposedly causing a sharp drop in the stock market, and released 100 white mice into a Bridal Fair held at Madison Square Garden.
An early spin off of the WITCH movement was founded in this city by Heather Booth, who also led the Jane Collective, which helped women find abortions while they were outlawed. This city's Women's Liberation Union published the pamphlet Socialist Feminism.
The Chicago WITCH coven protested in favor of the Chicago 8, a group arrested for their actions during this event. That group who protested this event included Bobby Seale, who was gagged and bound and eventually removed from the trial proceedings, and Abbie Hoffman, who shouted “why have you forsaken me, dad?” at the unrelated Judge Julius Hoffman.
New York
Chicago, Illinois
1968 Democratic National Convention [or the 1968 DNC]  &lt;History American (1945-present) - Shanmugam&gt;
For one book, this author used a press secretary he had saved from execution to gain access to former servants at a royal court. For 10 points each,
Name this Polish journalist who wrote books including Another Day of Life and The Emperor about conflicts he witnessed in Africa.
In The Emperor, Kapuscinski chronicled the palace intrigues and incompetent administration that led to the fall of this last emperor of Ethiopia at the hands of the military Derg government.
In Another Day of Life, Kapuscinski recounts several near-death experiences sustained while covering the beginning stages of this conflict, in which the MPLA was supported by a Cuban intervention against the South African-backed UNITA and Holden Roberto's FNLA.
Ryszard Kapuscinski (Ka-poosh-CHEEN-ski)
Haile Selassie I [accept Ras Tafari Makonnen]
Angolan Civil War &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
A Greek statesman of this city-state claimed that to show the newfound power of their city-state that they would bring the Propylaea, a monumental gateway, from the Acropolis in Athens to this city-state. For 10 points each:
Name this city-state that targeted the capture of the Propylaea. The Cadmeia, a citadel similar to the Acropolis, was named after this city-state's mythological founder, Cadmus.
Xenophon attributed Theban popularity to the Greeks never forgiving Thebes for surrendering to this invading King in 480 BCE while the rest of the Greeks fought on, eventually defeating this king's army at Salamis.
Although this man's Plutarchan “Life” has been lost, his claim that the Propylaea gateway would be brought to Thebes is preserved by Demosthenes. This Theban was the military strategist behind the Theban victory over Sparta at Leuctra, and he was called “the first man of Greece” by Cicero.
Thebes
Xerxes I [the Great]
Epaminondas &lt;History European to 1400 - Jankov&gt;
Answer the following about the political career of Josephus Daniels. For 10 points each:
Daniels led a white supremacist mob to overthrow this North Carolina city's elected government in the US's only successful coup. In 1898, the Red Shirts militia overthrew this city's Fusionist governing coalition.
Later, as Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of the Navy, Daniels would be in charge of managing this Assistant Secretary of the Navy, who would later serve as James Cox's running mate and governor of New York before becoming president.
After becoming president, Roosevelt rewarded his old boss by appointing him to this position. Other holders of this diplomatic post included flower namesake Joel Poinsett and Henry Lane Wilson, who was involved in plotting a coup against Francisco Madero.
Wilmington, North Carolina
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [accept FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
U.S. Ambassador to Mexico &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
The tripartite slogan “[this country], one, great and free” is quoted in this country's right-wing propaganda song “Facing the Sun.” For 10 points each:
Name this country. A political party from this country classified its members as “old-shirts” and “new-shirts” and used a red-and-black striped flag with a yoke and arrows in the center. That party was closely aligned with the Vertical Syndicate, this country's only permitted trade union.
Spain was home to the Falange (fa-LON-hay) party, which supported this fascist dictator and general who defeated the republic in the Spanish Civil War.
“Facing the Sun” was written as a counter to the popular anthem of the Second Spanish Republic, which was named for this general who staged an 1820 coup that ushered in Spain's first Republican period, the triennio liberal.
Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de España]
Francisco Franco Bahamonde
Rafael de Riego [accept “El Himno de Riego”]  &lt;History European 1914-present - French&gt;
One never-implemented plan for dealing with this ecological catastrophe was to place junk cars throughout the Great Plains to hold down the soil. For 10 points each:
Identify this term for an environmental disaster during the Great Depression that sent many farmers in the Great Plains to California.
This organization was employed to spread vast quantities of molasses and arsenic to try to stop the grasshopper plagues that were widespread during the Dust Bowl. Members of this organization were required to send twenty five of the thirty dollars they made each month back to their family.
The Dust Bowl largely disproved this theory about precipitation with a four-word name. As early as 1865, George Goyder had concluded that this theory did not apply to Australia.
Dust Bowl
Civilian Conservation Corps [or CCC]
rain follows the plow &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Bentley&gt;
An official investigation conducted by Vasily Shuisky concluded that instead of being murdered, this person stabbed himself in the throat after he had a seizure while playing a spear-throwing game. For 10 points each:
Name this man impersonated by Grigory Otrepiev, who promised to convert Russia to Catholicism after marrying a Polish princess.
Dmitry was impersonated by three usurpers during this period, which ended when Michael I came to power and saw Russia invaded by Poland, Sweden, and the Tatars.
The succession crisis that culminated in the Time of Troubles began after this ruler murdered his son, Ivan, leaving only the mentally ill Fedor as his heir. This ruler's Russian nickname, Grozny, can be more accurately translated as “awe-inspiring”.
St. Dmitry Fedorovich of Uglich
Time of Troubles [accept Smutnoe vremya]
Ivan the Terrible [accept Ivan IV, prompt on Ivan]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
One of these songs praising the title healer appears in the 1960 movie <em>Macario</em>, the first Mexican movie to be nominated for an Academy Award. For 10 points each:
Name these ballads, many of which praised heroes of the Mexican Revolution. More recent examples of these ballads that praise drug smugglers are prefixed with the word “narco.”
One of those heroes of the Mexican Revolution was this commander of the Division of the North, who was pursued by John Pershing's Punitive Expedition after his raid on Columbus.
The song “Mulher Rendeira” is like a corrido; however, instead of praising a hero of the Mexican revolution it was written in honor of this cangaceiro. Eric Hobsbawm listed this Brazilian folk hero alongside Villa and Ned Kelly as an example of what he termed “social bandits.”
corridos
Francisco “Pancho” Villa [or José Doroteo Arango Arámbula]
Lampião [or Virgulino Ferreira da Silva]  &lt;History World - French&gt;
This organization got permission to film the US Senate after Senator Robert Byrd realized how much more TV coverage the House was getting. For 10 points each:
Identify this broadcaster that finally started airing Senate proceedings in 1986.
This Tennessee Congressman gave the first speech that C-SPAN aired in 1979. After he moved to the Senate, this “Atari Democrat” sponsored the 1991 High Performance Computing Act that provided funding for the nascent internet.
C-SPAN changed its copyright policies in 2007 following controversy over its attempts to remove a recording of this event from YouTube. Gerald Ford's 1976 speech at this event referenced the clumsy portrayal of him on SNL.
C-SPAN [or Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network]
Al Gore [or Albert Arnold Gore Jr.]
White House Correspondents' Association Dinner Roast [or WHCA Dinner]  &lt;History American (1945-present) - Bentley&gt;
The English word “person” may ultimately derive from this language's word for “mask.” For 10 points each:
Name this language, which was written in a script that resembles Greek or Latin letters, but as a mirror image. The Emperor Claudius compiled a dictionary of this language that is now lost.
The Etruscan language may also be the source for the name of this Italian city, which eventually conquered the Etruscans and then the rest of the Mediterranean.
An Etruscan book, the Liber Linteus, has been preserved since it was oddly used as part of one of these things. These things were prepared with natron as well as with spices such as cassia and myrrh.
Etruscan
Rome
ancient Egyptian mummies &lt;History European to 1400 - French&gt;
This man's teachings inspired a Jewish revolt in Iraq that briefly led to the establishment of an independent state. For 10 points:
Name this egalitarian priest whose teachings were supported by King Kavadh I. He propagated a doctrine named for him but originated by Zaradust-e-Khuragan.
Mazdak's teachings lost state support after he was censured by this influential group of priests, who legendarily buried thousands of his followers alive in what they termed a “human garden”.
Mazdakism is regarded as a heresy of this religion, which was the state religion of Persia under the Sassanid dynasty before its conquest by the caliphate.
Mazdak [accept Mazdakism]
magi
Zoroastrianism &lt;RMP Non-Christian/Bible Religion - Myers&gt;
Despite several previous incidents of drunkenness and insubordination, this man was spared a court-martial because his father John was Secretary of War. For 10 points each:
Name this co-founder of the Chi Psi Fraternity. Accounts differ on whether this midshipman was trying to play a prank on his captain or start a new fraternity aboard the USS Somers, but in any case he was hanged after being accused of plotting a mutiny against Captain Alexander Slidell Mackenzie.
A public outcry after Spencer's hanging led to the establishment of the US Naval Academy in this capital of Maryland.
Mackenzie was the brother of Louisiana senator and diplomat John Slidell, who was captured by the Union navy on a mission to Britain on behalf of the confederacy in this affair named for the ship he traveled on.
Philip Spencer
Annapolis
Trent Affair  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Jackson&gt;
An eyewitness boasted that “the results of this battle will be as important and memorable to those whom it concerns as those of the battle of Bunker Hill, at least.” For 10 points each:
Name this battle. An account of its ground “strewn with the dead and dying” of both the “red imperialists” and “black republicans” is found in “Brute Neighbors.”
The Battle of the Ants was fought near this lake. B.F. Skinner would later title a description of his behaviorist Utopia for this lake “two”.
The Battle of the Ants appears in the writings of this author of Walden, who described being put in jail for refusing to pay his taxes in Civil Disobedience.
Battle of the Ants
Walden Pond
Henry David Thoreau &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
In 2019, judges ruled in favor of the families of victims of this event in the case of <em>Soto v. Bushmaster</em>, arguing that Remington could be sued for violating a state law on unfair trade practices. For 10 points each:
Identify this event. Five months after this event, governor Dannel Malloy signed a law banning the purchase of magazines with more than 10 rounds of ammunition in his state.
The Soto decision was made by the Supreme Court in this state, where the Sandy Hook shooting took place.
Following Sandy Hook, Barack Obama issued an executive order easing restrictions on this law that prevented information being sent to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. The HITECH Act required organizations covered by this law to publicize data breaches.
Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting [or Sandy Hook massacre]
Connecticut
HIPAA [or Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; or Kassebaum-Kennedy Act]  &lt;Current Events US - Bentley&gt;
Until the 1990s, these people were thought to be known as <em>Ghilman</em>, although the name they are known most by means “property” in Arabic. For 10 points each,
Name this slave-warrior class of various origins, including the Caucasus, Balkans, and Turkic regions, that founded multiple sultanates in the Middle Ages.
The Mamluks defeated the Mongols, who were led by Hulagu, at this battle, which ended the Mongol advance into the Levant. In English, this location's name means “Goliath's Spring.”
The Mamluks founded a dynasty that is typically thought about in terms of the Bahri and Burji periods in this modern day country, where they held their capital at Cairo.
Mamluks
Battle of Ain Jalut
Egypt &lt;History World - Jankov&gt;
The British <em>Punch</em> magazine was based off a French satirical broadsheet named after these events, which published political cartoons by Honoré Daumier. For 10 points each:
Name this form of public shaming, in which the subject is forced to ride on a donkey backwards, holding up the donkey's tail, as townsfolk make loud noises around them.
The decline in the charivari and other community controls may have fomented the sharp increase of this practice in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Children born as a result of this practice are derisively called “bastards.”
The illegitimacy explosion led to a corresponding increase in child abandonment, which required the construction of many of these buildings. It's not a cathedral, but Filippo Brunelleschi was commissioned to design one of these buildings in Florence in 1419.
charivari [accept shivaree, chivaree, rough music, skimmington ride, or skimmity ride]
premarital sex [accept any answers indicating sexual activities that take place between individuals who are not married; prompt on sex]
foundling hospitals [accept Ospedale degli Innocenti]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - French&gt;
The practice in this kingdom of driving nails into <em>nkisi nkonde</em> figures to commemorate important community events may have inspired the Haitian use of voodoo dolls. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom where indigenous practices were syncretized into Catholicism after its king, Mvemba a Nzinga, was converted by Portuguese missionaries and changed his name to Afonso.
Existing Kongolese concepts of a king associated with the sky assisted the adoption of Christianity, as did the fact that this religious diagram, segments of which symbolized phases of the day, colors, and stages of life, was already shaped like a cross.
The worship of this saint from Padua was especially prominent in Kongolese Catholicism, culminating in an episode in which Dona Beatriz Kimpa Vita rebelled against the king while claiming to be a reincarnation of this patron saint of lost objects.
Kingdom of Kongo
dikenga [accept yowa, prompt on Kongo cosmogram]
St. Anthony of Padua [accept Toni]  &lt;RMP Non-Christian/Bible Religion - Myers&gt;
Answer the following about medieval European noblemen named Fulk. For 10 points each,
Five different Fulks, including Fulk the Black, a robber baron who had his wife burned at the stake in her wedding dress after she was accused of adultery, served as counts of this French region, which names an English dynasty that included Henry II and Richard I.
The first Fulk, named for this color of his hair, expelled the Normans from Anjou and helped the rise to power of Hugh Capet. A viking explorer named Erik and the German emperor Frederick I were both named for having hair of this color
Fulk V, who later became King of Jerusalem, died in a hunting accident in this city, after which he was succeeded by his daughter, Melisande. This city was the last Crusader outpost in the mainland Levant to come under Muslim rule, doing so in 1291.
County of Anjou [accept Angevin Dynasty]
Red [accept Erik the Red or Frederick Barbarossa]
Acre [accept Akko, Akke]  &lt;History European to 1400 - Myers&gt;
Jonathan Schmitz offered this legal defense after killing his friend in 1995 because he was humiliated by revelations on <em>The Jenny Jones Show</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial legal defense usually used to rationalize murders committed against people who supposedly made sexual advances against them. A judge refused to allow this defense in the murder trial of Matthew Shepard.
After Shepard's death, Congress passed a 2009 law imposing harsher penalties on this sort of crime, which is directed against someone purely for reasons such as a victim's race or sexual orientation.
The 2009 hate crime law was co-named for Shepard and James Byrd Jr., who was also murdered in 1998. White supremacists in this state killed Byrd by dragging him behind a pickup truck on an asphalt road.
gay panic defense [accept trans panic]
hate crime
Texas &lt;History American (1945-present) - Cheyne&gt;
The reporter Mortimer Thomson traveled incognito to cover the largest one of these events in US history, which occurred in Savannah in 1859 and was known as the “weeping time”. For 10 points each:
Identify these events, frequent occurrences in the cities of Norfolk and New Orleans. The Exchange and Provost building was the site of these events in Charleston.
The aforementioned 1859 slave auction came about following this man's divorce from the actress Fanny Kemble. This man's grandfather of the same name introduced the Fugitive Slave Clause into the draft of the Constitution and served as South Carolina's first senator.
The night prior to the Butler slave auction, two enslaved people named Dembo and Frances got a minister to perform this action to ensure they weren't sold to separate owners. Masters often encouraged this practice to reduce the likelihood of men running away and to produce more children.
slave auctions
Pierce M. Butler
marriage [or wedding; or equivalents]  &lt;History American (pre-1865) - Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about ethnic assimilation in late antique China. For 10 points each:
After this clan established the Northern Wei Dynasty, their advisor, Cui Hao, encouraged them to adopt Chinese culture, leading them to convert to Buddhism and take a Chinese surname. After breaching the Great Wall to invade northern China themselves, this clan built a new section of the Great Wall to keep out the Rouran.
This modern country, which rebelled against Chinese domination under the Trung sisters, had its language banned in administration and its dress customs suppressed while it was under Chinese control. This modern country was invaded several times from the North by various Chinese dynasties.
Several groups of non-Han people who quickly adapted to Chinese culture invaded China and established states during a period named for this many dynasties and ten kingdoms, which succeeded the Tang Dynasty and preceded the Han.
Tuoba [accept Tabgatch, Toba, prompt on Xianbei, Hsien-pi, Mongols]
Vietnam
Five [accept wu, Five dynasties and ten kingdoms]  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
A “war” named for this resource erupted after the World Bank pressured Bolivia into privatizing SEMAPA, a state agency that delivered it. For 10 points each:
Name this resource, which the Israeli company Mekorot is known for extracting from the West Bank.
The “water war” took place in this Bolivian city, where the World Bank delivered control of the water supply to the Aguas del Tunari company. State control of water was restored in this city after a series of protests in 1999.
Over one third of Israel's drinking water is produced by plants that perform this process. This process converts saltwater to freshwater.
water
Cochabamba
desalination &lt;History World - French&gt;
This disease killed most of the sailors who participated in George Anson's voyage around the world. For 10 points each:
Name this disease, which the British Royal Navy warded off by issuing rations of lemon or lime juice to its sailors.
This Scottish doctor proved that citrus fruits could prevent scurvy in one of the first ever clinical trials.
James Cook was able to avoid losing a single sailor to scurvy on his first voyage, which took place aboard this ship. That voyage on this ship aimed to confirm the existence of a fabled Terra Australis.
scurvy
James Lind
HMS Endeavour &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Kothari&gt;
In 2018, voters in this state approved Amendment 13, which places a constitutional ban on greyhound racing. For 10 points each:
Identify this state, which prior to the amendment hosted 11 of the 17 remaining dog racing tracks in the US.
In the same election, Florida voters also approved a measure to re-enfranchise these people, which constitute at least a million residents of the state.
This man, who won a close race against Andrew Gillum to become Florida's governor, has supported Republican efforts since the election to roll back some of the rights granted to former felons.
Florida
former felons [or ex-prisoners]
Ron DeSantis [or Ronald Dion DeSantis]  &lt;Current Events US - Bentley&gt;
The poetry contained in this admiral's War Diary is widely considered a classic of Korean literature. For 10 points each:
Name this victor at the Battle of Noryang, who built early ironclads called “turtle ships” to defend against a Japanese invasion during the Imjin War.
The Imjin War was launched by this second great unifier of Japan, who succeeded Oda Nobunaga and preceded Tokugawa Ieyasu.
One leader of this clan nicknamed “the one-eyed dragon” gained power after serving under Hideyoshi in the Imjin War. That leader of this clan, Masamune, was famed for writing a letter to Pope Paul V about his protection of Christians in his realm and building a galleon that he later dispatched to Rome by way of Mexico.
Yi Sun-shin [or Yi Sun-sin; or Yeohae]
Toyotomi Hideyoshi [accept either]
Date &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
George Meany presided over the merger of this organization's two constituent parts. For 10 points each:
Name this organization currently led by Richard Trumka, which replaced an organization once led by John L. Lewis.
This union was expelled from the AFL–CIO due to concerns over the mob connections and flagrant corruption of its head, Jimmy Hoffa. This union organizes transportation workers and is named for workers who would supervise mule driving.
This unionist was a long-standing progressive voice of opposition to the conservative AFL–CIO leadership under Meany. After unseating the AFSCME’s corrupt president, Arnold Sander, this man ended its involvement with the CIA and established state employees' right to strike.
AFL–CIO [accept American Federation of Labor–Congress of Industrial Organizations from pretentious players]
International Brotherhood of Teamsters
Jerry Wurf &lt;History American (1945-present) - Myers&gt;
This ruler established a namesake library that was later destroyed after the Ottomans won the battle of Mohacs. For 10 points each:
Name this leader whose best-known nickname comes from the Latin name for the raven that was prominent on his crest. This leader recruited demobilized Hussite soldiers from neighboring Bohemia into his “black army”.
Matthias Corvinus often fought this Holy Roman Emperor, who claimed sovereignty over Hungary. This emperor placed his ward, Ladislaus the Posthumous, on the Hungarian throne, only for Ladislaus to die at age 17, allowing Matthias to take over.
Frederick III was a member of this Austrian royal house, which would eventually control the monarchies of much of continental Europe.
Matthias Corvinus [or Matthias I; or Hunyadi Mátyás]
Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor [accept Frederick V of Austria and Friedrich for Frederick; prompt on Frederick]
Habsburg &lt;History European 1400-1914 - French&gt;
After the death of Jochi, this empire was split into two ulus, one called the Blue and one called the White. For 10 points each:
Name this empire, which was founded by Batu Khan, the grandson of Genghis Khan. They are sometimes called the Kipchak Khanate, though their most famous name supposedly derives from the colors of their tents.
The Golden Horde's invasion of Europe began when these people fled into Hungary after their defeat alongside the Rus at the Battle of the Kalka River, though Hungary rejected them and killed their chieftain Koten. Their name is hyphenated with Kipchaks in the name of a confederation of tribes.
The Golden Horde, under the command of Subotai, smashed Bela IV's troops at this 1241 battle fought near the Sajo river. This battle opened up Hungary for the Horde, allowing them to later burn Pest.
Golden Horde [prompt on the Mongol empire]
Cumans [or the Cuman-Kipchak confederation]
Battle of Mohi &lt;History European to 1400 - Shanmugam&gt;
Answer the following about countries prominent in the nut trade. For 10 points each:
The cancellation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was a major shock to international pistachio markets, which largely function as a duopoly between the United States and this other country where they are grown in the province of Kerman.
This country on the African mainland, where agriculture accounts for over half of GDP, exports almost exclusively cashew nuts. This country controls the Bijagos Archipelago and was one of two countries led by Amilcar Cabral.
This non-Brazil country is, ironically, the world's largest producer of Brazil nuts. Its president, Evo Morales, who rules from its two capitals of Sucre and La Paz, is an advocate of its coca farmers.
Islamic Republic of Iran
Republic of Guinea-Bissau [prompt on Guinea]
Plurinational State of Bolivia &lt;Geography World - Myers&gt;
During the National Boycott of California Table Grapes, this woman met with Gloria Steinem to convince her to help get women to support the farmworkers. For 10 points each:
Name this activist. Alongside Cesar Chavez, she founded the National Farmworkers Association, which became the United Farm Workers.
The National Boycott was part of the Delano grape strike, which also saw Chavez and Huerta lead a march from Delano to this capital of California.
Also during the grape strike, Chavez supported the foundation of this theater troupe, originally led by Luis Valdez. This company has put on plays such as “Zoot Suit.”
Dolores Huerta
Sacramento
El Teatro Campesino [prompt on Peasants' Theater or Farmworkers' Theater]  &lt;History American (1945-present) - French&gt;
In one poster, this figure says “Good material waste in scrap help to saving face for Jap.” For 10 points each:
Name this racist caricature with round glasses and pointed teeth. He was used to represent Japan in many American propaganda posters during World War II.
In another poster, this general of the Imperial Japanese Army is “velly happy” that you missed work last week. This Prime Minister of Japan ordered the attack on Pearl Harbor.
This illustrator represented Tojo as an ugly woman married to Hitler in one of his many propaganda posters, although he is better known for writing children's books like The Cat in the Hat.
Tokio Kid
Hideki Tojo or Tojo Hideki
Doctor Seuss [or Theodor Seuss Geisel]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - French&gt;
Even Maoism can invoke nostalgia. Identify the following about this trend, for 10 points each:
Chinese officials have sought to obtain UNESCO World Heritage status for a massive, hand-dug one of these projects started during the Great Leap Forward. A “grand” one of these that connects Beijing and Hangzhou is the oldest such structure in the world.
So-called Red Tourists might wear one of these things for nostalgia's sake. Almost everyone attending the 9th National Congress of the Communist Party in China in 1969 wore one of these things, causing an aluminum shortage.
High-speed rail has made it a cinch to visit this home province of Chairman Mao for an annual Red Tourism festival. Its capital is Changsha.
canal [or artificial waterway]
Chairman Mao pin [or Chairman Mao badge]
Hunan &lt;Geography World - Bentley&gt;
This event was partially stocked by the environmental concerns of mining as part of the Phosphorite War. For 10 points each:
Name this event whose name was coined by Heinz Valk, that caused the Soviet Union to lose control of three Baltic nations.
The Singing Revolution resulted in the independence of Latvia, Lithuania, and this nation, whose Tallinn Song Festival Grounds was a major meeting place for demonstrators.
On the fiftieth anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, two million people across the the three countries performed this specific action over the length of their border with Russia to demonstrate unity.
the Singing Revolution
Estonia
form a human chain [accept equivalents, descriptive answers]  &lt;History European 1914-present - Hawkins&gt;
This theorist argued for a democratic model of the title institution in <em>Communism and the Family</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this theorist who served as Commissar of Social Welfare before the Soviet Family Code of 1926 marked a retreat from her ideas.
This woman co-founded an anti-war organization with Karl Liebknecht. This anarchist published her theories in The Accumulation of Capital.
This leader attacked Kollontai for suggesting sex education rather than hiking and gymnastics lessons as ways to deal with the USSR's rates of teenage sex. Luxemburg criticized this leader for his authoritarianism following the October Revolution.
Alexandra Kollontai
Rosa Luxemburg
Vladimir Ilych Lenin [accept Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov]  &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
While touring a dig site led by this man, Agatha Christie met her second husband, his assistant Max Mallowan. For 10 points each:
Name this British archaeologist who inspired Christie's novel Murder in Mesopotamia by discovering a Royal Cemetery. He also uncovered the Standard of Ur during his 1922-1934 excavation of the city.
Woolley's team uncovered a “Great” example of these structures in Ur. Thirty-two of these step pyramids have been found in Mesopotamia.
The Great Ziggurat of Ur was restored by this first known archaeologist and last king of the Neo-Babylonian empire, who lost to Cyrus the Great at Opis. His son Belshazzar ruled while he spent ten years in Tayma.
Sir Leonard Woolley
ziggurats
Nabonidus [or Nabû-naʾid]  &lt;History World - Smith&gt;
People of this profession are kept out of politics in Mali because of their perceived ability to manipulate the supernatural force of <em>nyama</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this profession that is charged with producing spiritual objects such as boli and CiWara, as well as a rod used by a mythical king to stand up after recovering from being crippled.
The force of nyama is often analogized to this concept in Chinese folk religion, an animating force that is manipulated in a martial art whose name consists of this word followed by “gong.”
As part of a broader campaign against African religious practices, this colonial power destroyed many Malian religious relics. The Cult of the Supreme Being originated in this European country.
blacksmiths [accept nyamakalaw, prompt on artist or craftsman, or similar answers]
qi [accept ch'i]
France &lt;RMP Non-Christian/Bible Religion - Myers&gt;
This clause's “dormant” form prohibits state laws which place an undue burden on the interstate form of a certain activity. For 10 points each:
Name this clause in Article I, Section 8 that gives congress the power to regulate the namesake activity between states and with foreign nations.
The power of the commerce clause was dramatically increased by this case, in which the Supreme Court ruled that Congress could regulate activities which indirectly affected commerce. This case established the New Deal's Agricultural Adjustments Act as constitutional.
In this Marshall court case, overlapping state and federal concessions for operating steamboat lines led the court to define the word “among” in the Commerce clause more strictly. It is considered one of the foundations of Commerce Clause jurisprudence.
commerce clause
Wickard v. Filburn [accept either]
Gibbons v. Ogden [accept either]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Mitchell&gt;
In <em>Life on the Mississippi</em>, Mark Twain blamed the influence of this author's novels for the “pathetic” “architectural falsehood” of the Louisiana State Capitol's medieval-revival design. For 10 points each:
Name this author who Twain also accused of doing “more real and lasting harm, perhaps, than any other individual that ever wrote” by creating a mythical version of chivalry in his historical novels that helped contribute to the outbreak of the Civil War.
In an essay on Scotland published in The Invention of Tradition, this Oxford historian and rival of A. J. P. Taylor accuses Scott of fabricating many elements of modern Scottish nationalism, including wearing kilts and playing bagpipes.
In order to write a biography of this leader, Sir Walter Scott was granted unique access to archives relating to his imprisonment on St. Helena and did research by conversing with veterans of the Battle of Waterloo, at which this leader was defeated.
Sir Walter Scott
Hugh Trevor-Roper
Napoleon I Bonaparte [accept Life of Napoleon Buonaparte]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
The overuse of the anti-inflammatory diclofenac in livestock during the 1990s has caused a 95% decline in populations of many species of these birds in South Asia. For 10 points each:
Name these scavenging birds, whose decline has led to a buildup of cow carcasses, leading to a public health crisis. Some Parsis started breeding these birds to maintain their Towers of Silence.
A 2018 study used radio telemetry to show that vultures stay entirely on one side of the border between these two countries because one of them maintains a carrion ban. These two countries have disputed the town of Olivenza for the last two centuries.
Portugal maintains that carrion ban, which was originally implemented over the entire European Union after an outbreak of this prion-caused disease that began in the late 1980s.
vultures
Spain and Portugal [both answers required]
mad cow disease [or bovine spongiform encephalopathy; or BSE]  &lt;Current Events Non-US - Kothari&gt;
A lot of people wanted to overthrow the Weimar Republic. For 10 points each:
This general and de facto World War I-era co-leader of Germany helped lead the Beer Hall Putsch against the Republic. This general gave an order for the Putschists to march, but did not plan or specify where, thus leading the disorganized mob he and Hitler led to be easily defeated by Bavarian state police.
These units of demobilized World War I veterans were instrumental in suppressing the leftist Spartacist Uprising against the Weimar Republic. These groups would later attempt to overthrow the Weimar Republic themselves in the Kapp Putsch.
The fall from power of this former co-leader with Ludendorff and namesake of a zeppelin that crashed spectacularly over New Jersey marked the end of the Weimar Republic.
Erich von Ludendorff
freikorps
Paul von Hindenburg &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
This woman's activism may have been inspired by her upbringing by a mother who believed she was Queen Victoria. For 10 points each:
Name this activist who heard God tell her to “go to Kiowa” and that “I'll stand by you” in Medicine Lodge, Kansas, and was killed in 1911 by a woman whose business she was attacking.
Nation was an activist for this cause, which was accomplished in 1920 by the 18th amendment, which gained its enforcement powers from the Volstead Act.
Nation's violent tactics contrasted with this organization founded in Hillsboro, Ohio, which was led by Frances Willard.
Carry A. Nation
prohibition of alcohol [accept, but do not reveal, temperance]
Women's Christian Temperance Union  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
This man was a dandy in London nicknamed “Jessamy John” before he escaped prison and fled the country after killing a man in a duel. For 10 points each:
Name this financier who laid out his theories in the pamphlet “Money and Trade Consider'd” and began printing banknotes using his General Bank to finance the purchase of shares in his Company of the West.
John Law's Company of the West eventually amassed a stock value of more than twice France's GDP before crashing in a bubble named for this river, which ran through the colony the Company of the West was founded to trade with.
The Mississippi Bubble collapsed under the reign of this king, who delegated much of the running of his empire to his mistress, Madame de Pompadour. This king had just succeeded a monarch nicknamed the “Sun King”, his father.
John Law
Mississippi Bubble
Louis XV [prompt on Louis]  &lt;History European 1400-1914 - Myers&gt;
An economics professor and supporter of this cause named Clara Ponsati was controversially extradited from Scotland under the terms of the 1351 Treason Felony Act for “levying war against her Majesty.” For 10 points each:
Identify this cause vigorously opposed by Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.
Scotland, like Catalonia, has sought increased autonomy from the central government. In the UK, this term refers to the UK parliament granting powers to the national assemblies of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
This President of the European Council and former head of the Civic Platform party spoke out against the Catalan declaration of independence in 2017.
Catalan independence [or independence of Catalonia; prompt on things like greater autonomy for Catalonia]
devolution
Donald Tusk [or Donald Franciszek Tusk]  &lt;Current Events Non-US - Bentley&gt;
A set of this number of “great campaigns” included two attacks on the Gurkhas and a genocidal campaign to overthrow the leader of the Dzungars. For 10 points each:
Name this number, which also named a group of “regular attendants” who dominated the politics of the late Han Dynasty.
This emperor launched the Ten Great Campaigns in addition to receiving the Macartney Mission from Britain and suppressing the White Lotus Rebellion. He abdicated so that the length of his reign would not surpass that of his grandfather, Kangxi.
The Ten Regular Attendants were a group of these people, who had a traditional rivalry at the Chinese court with “Mandarins” and were employed on the theory that they would look out for the emperor's interest first since they could have no children.
ten [accept shi]
Qianlong
eunuchs  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
Years after the fact, it was discovered that a holder of this position gave judges and opposition politicians advance notice of his intent to remove a prime minister, despite official denials that that had happened. For 10 points each:
Name this position held by Sir John Kerr, who triggered a constitutional crisis by removing Gough (guff) Whitlam from office in favor of Malcolm Fraser after Whitlam won a snap election.
This founder of the British Guiana Labor Party was removed twice by British governors for his suspected Marxist sympathies, once after refusing to resign following a British military intervention. He was replaced the second time by his former ally, Forbes Burnham.
An “affair” with a rhyming name took place when Governor-General John Byng refused to call a general election for this Liberal Canadian Prime Minister in 1926. This Prime Minister led Canada for a total of 22 years, including during World War II.
Governor-General of Australia
Cheddi Jagan
William Lyon Mackenzie King [accept Mackenzie King, do not accept John Mackenzie]  &lt;History World - Myers&gt;
In the <em>Anglo-Saxon Chronicle</em>, this event is presaged by “excessive whirlwinds” and “fiery dragons.” For 10 points each:
Name this 793 event in which Danish raiders arrived at a monastery and made off with the relics of St. Cuthbert.
The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle refers to the Danes that sacked Lindisfarne using this specific word. A “Great Army” described by this word was led by Ivar the Boneless, Ubba, and Guthrum.
That Great Heathen Army eventually conquered every Anglo-Saxon kingdom except for this one, which recorded the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. This kingdom defeated the Danes at the Battle of Eddington under the command of its king, Alfred the Great.
sack of Lindisfarne
heathen [or hæðen or hæþen; do not accept synonyms]
Wessex &lt;History European to 1400 - French&gt;
This diplomat used the pseudonym “Mr. X” to write his most famous work. For 10 points each:
Name this diplomat who composed a “long telegram” from Moscow that shaped much of US cold war policy.
The “long telegram” outlined this policy, which focused on making sure Communism did not spread beyond its then-current frontiers. After what was seen as this policy's failure in the Chinese Revolution, it was modified to become more aggressive.
The “NSC 68” paper, issued in 1950 by this primary author and assistant secretary of defense, proposed a policy of rolling back Communist gains using new technologies including the hydrogen bomb. This author is considered a forerunner of neoconservatism.
George Kennan
containment
Paul Nitze &lt;History American (1945-present) - Myers&gt;
Teddy Roosevelt called the lawyer Uriah Rose “the brainiest man I have ever met.” For 10 points each:
Rose was born in Kentucky but served most of his career in this state, where he tried to subvert radical reconstruction. The Brooks-Baxter War took place between local Unionists and Northern migrants in this state's Republican party.
After setting up his influential law firm, Rose was sent by President Roosevelt to a 1907 conference in this European city which, along with an 1899 convention held in the same city and the Geneva Conventions, set terms for international warfare.
This 2016 presidential candidate became the first female partner of the Rose Law Firm while her husband Bill was serving as Arkansas Attorney General.
Arkansas
The Hague [accept Den Haag, 's Gravenhage]
Hillary Rodham Clinton [prompt on Clinton]  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Jackson&gt;
In the 1990s, members of one of these groups refused to wear DC shoes, while another refused to use computers with MS-DOS, because both were symbols of the other. For 10 points each:
Identify these two feuding gangs, whose members are known as los numeros and las letras. These gangs originated in Los Angeles, but were spread back to their current base by US deportation policies.
The murder rate in this Central American country, where most members of MS-13 and Barrio 18 originate from, declined after the gangs agreed to a brief truce in 2012.
The murder rate in El Salvador spiked following a government operation whose name contains this adjective this adjective. That initiative was started by the right-wing ARENA party in 2003. This word precedes “beam” in another country's planned defense program that will rely heavily on fiber lasers.
MS-13 and Barrio 18 [or Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street; accept 13 for MS-13; Calle 18 or La 18 or Mara 18 for Barrio 18]
El Salvador
iron [or Iron Fist; or Iron Beam]  &lt;Current Events Non-US - Bentley&gt;
Marion Barry, a student at Fisk University, was elected the first chairman of this group. For 10 points each:
Name this civil rights group once led by Stokely Carmichael. This group opted to stay autonomous to avoid the emergence of the “Moses-type leader” common in religious civil rights groups like the SCLC.
The SNCC was founded at the beginning of this decade, during which the Civil Rights Act was passed and Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated.
This woman encouraged students to found the SNCC after inviting them to an SCLC meeting. This civil rights activist co-founded In Friendship with Stanley Levison and Bayard Rustin.
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee [or SNCC (snick)]
1960s [or sixties]
Ella Baker &lt;History American (1945-present) - French&gt;
Identify the following about the changing role of women in Japan, for 10 points each.
The ideal of ryosai kenbo or “Good Wife, Wise Mother” was promoted during the reign of this emperor, whose namesake restoration ended the Tokugawa Shogunate.
After the second world war, the “Kyariauman” (kyaria-ooman) developed as a female analogue to this group of stereotypically overworked, white-collar professionals who frequently have lifetime jobs at large corporations.
This industry opened to Japanese women in the 1920s, in part from pressure from a “Pure” movement led by novelists like Junichiro Tanizaki. Nikkatsu is the oldest Japanese company in this industry still in operation.
Meiji Emperor [or Emperor Meiji the Great]
salaryman [accept sarariman]
film [or movies; or cinema; prompt on entertainment]  &lt;History World - Bentley&gt;
The funding of this place's construction by Republican donors has led to official harassment of its Democratic Club. For 10 points each:
Name this place in Sumter County, Florida, which contains a reconstructed mid- 20th century downtown and is the US's largest retirement community.
A US representative from this state, Debbie Lesko, campaigned on having introduced a bill to make golf carts road-legal. Del Webb designed pioneering retirement communities in this state including Sun City, the largest until the construction of the Villages.
Tavares, Florida is a large retirement community for people from this immigrant group, who popularized dishes including Saag Paneer and Biryani in the US.
The Villages
Arizona
Indian-Americans [accept South Asian Americans or Desis; prompt on Asian- Americans]  &lt;Geography US - Myers&gt;
Before his execution, this nobleman was accused of blasphemy, homosexuality, and spitting on the cross, and confessed to all the charges except the one of homosexuality. For 10 points each,
Name this last leader of the Knights Templar, who was burned at the stake after his order was banned by Pope Clement V.
Jacques de Molay was executed by a monarch of this name nicknamed “The Fair”; another French monarch of this name was nicknamed “Augustus” and defeated King John of England in a series of wars.
According to this secret society's lore, de Molay was executed for refusing to surrender wealth he found in the Temple of Solomon, thus leading this organization, said to have originated from bricklayers at the Temple, to go underground until the 18th century.
Jacques de Molay
Philip [accept Philippe, Philip the Fair, Philip IV, Philippe le Bel, Philip II, or Philip Augustus]
Freemasons [accept Scottish Rite Freemasonry]  &lt;History European to 1400 - Myers&gt;
The Dutch engineer Cornelius Vermuyden used wind pumps to accomplish this project. For 10 points each:
Name this process that opened much of East Anglia up to settlement. A book by Eric Ash titled for this process is the leading work on it.
The Pontine Marshes, which are located outside this city, were drained in the 1930s to prevent malaria. The Appian Way traversed the Marshes after leaving this city, its Northern terminus.
These structures, the largest of which is Flevoland, were built in the Netherlands, often using dykes, to create more arable land.
draining of the fens
Rome [accept Roma]
polders  &lt;History European 1914-present - Myers&gt;
A mayor nicknamed the “dictator” of this city, Orville Hubbard, used techniques to keep this city segregated like having the fire department perform “checks” at black-owned houses every hour until the inhabitants left. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose newspaper, the Independent, published a series of articles about “the international Jew” after its purchase by an anti-Semitic businessman.
On Henry Ford's direction, the Dearborn Independent published one of the first English translations of this text, which purported to be a Russian spy's transcript of a meeting of Jewish community leaders.
Dearborn is regarded as a center of this immigrant community in the US due to Ford's recruiting of members of sects such as the Maronites and Chaldeans to work at his plants. Due to the pre-existing prevalence of this immigrant group, Dearborn later became a top destination for Muslim immigrants more generally.
Dearborn, Michigan [do NOT accept Detroit]
The Protocols of the Elders of Zion
Arab-Americans  &lt;History American (1865-1945) - Myers&gt;
This city was slated to fight an army from Alba Longa, but the Alban leader Mettius Fufetius betrayed Rome after waiting in the mountains to see if Rome would lose its battle with the Veientes. For 10 points each:
Identify this city, whom Romulus also defeated by storming its gates. A wooden stadium in this city built by Atulius burned down in 27 AD.
According to Livy, the second war with the Fidenae occurred during the reign of Tullus Hostilius, whose reign saw the birth of these triplet warriors. Livy also detailed their fight with the Curiatii during a war against the Albans.
Tullus pursued a militant foreign policy partially inspired by his grandfather Hostus. Hostus had been part of the founding generation of Rome, who kidnapped the women of these people in a namesake “rape.” Those women later engage in an “intervention” to stop a battle between the Romans and these people.
Fidenae
Horatii
Sabines [or Sabini]  &lt;RMP Greek/Roman Myth - Hijazi&gt;
Answer the following about 20th century Caribbean leaders, for 10 points each:
Since he suspected that a rival transfigured himself into a black dog, this dictator ordered all black dogs in his country to be put to death. This dictator and houngan claimed to have killed John F. Kennedy by placing a curse on him.
Papa Doc's friend, Fulgencio Batista, was overthrown as President of Cuba by this communist revolutionary. US-backed forces attempted to oust this dictator in the Bay of Pigs invasion.
The “Bayou of Pigs” invasion, on the other hand, is the name given to a 1981 white supremacist-backed plot to overthrow Eugenia Charles, then the Prime Minister of this country, and restore her predecessor, the former soccer player and army colonel Patrick John.
François Duvalier [or Papa Doc Duvalier; prompt on Duvalier]
Fidel Castro
Dominica [do not accept “Dominican Republic”]  &lt;History World - French&gt;
This machine did not immediately replace the cottage industry, since it could only produce a long, coarse thread. For 10 points each:
Name this machine, developed by Richard Arkwright. Samuel Crompton combined it with James Hargeaves' spinning jenny to create the spinning mule.
The water frame was one of many new devices produced during this technological “revolution” that occurred around the turn of the 19th century.
This Industrial Revolution engineer designed a tunnel beneath the Thames. He also led the construction of the Great Western Railway.
water frame [or spinning frame]
Industrial Revolution [accept Second Industrial Revolution]
Isambard Kingdom Brunel &lt;History European 1400-1914 - French&gt;
Debate over this legislation hinged on certain institutions that the Constitution says Congress "may from time to time ordain and establish." For 10 points each:
Name this first bill ever introduced in the U.S. Senate, which also created the office of U.S. attorney general.
Part of the Judiciary Act of 1789 was ruled unconstitutional in this 1803 Supreme Court case, a decision of the Marshall court that also established judicial review.
Ironically, it was Marshall who had failed to deliver Marbury his commission while he was both chief justice and holder of this cabinet position. Marshall was succeeded in this post by none other than James Madison.
Judiciary Act of 1789 [or An Act to Establish the Federal Courts of the United States; prompt with "I need the year" on Judiciary Act]
Marbury v. Madison
secretary of state
Answer the following about the Peasants' Revolt for 10 points each.
This radical preacher stirred up support for the Revolt with his fiery sermons, one of which advocated for gender equality with the slogan "When Adam delved and Eve span, who then was the gentleman?"
This leader of the Revolt was killed at a meeting with King Richard II at Smithfield, after which the rebellion rapidly collapsed. Together with Ball and Jack Straw, he represented the peasants at that meeting.
The Peasants' Revolt is often interpreted as a reaction against a statute depressing workers' wages in the wake of an epidemic of this disease, which killed up to 1/3 of Europe's population in the late 1340s and early 1350s.
John Ball
Wat (Walter) Tyler
Black Death [accept Black Plague, or Bubonic Plague or Yersinia Pestis]
This leader studied theology under the sufi Jibril ibn Umar in the city of Agadez. For 10 points each:
Name this Islamic reformer who, after being elected Imam of the sultanate of Gobir, radically reduced its bureaucracy and launched holy wars against its neighbors, thus establishing a "caliphate" over much of the Southern Sahara that was later ruled by his son, Muhammad Bello (bell-o).
Usman dan Fodio established the Sokoto Caliphate among this ethnic group, the largest in modern Nigeria. This Muslim ethnic group occupies most of Northern Nigeria.
States established in 19th century West Africa such as those of Samori Toure and Usman dan Fodio are frequently named for this Islamic theological concept, frequently translated as "holy war."
Usman dan Fodio [accept Uthman ibn Fudi]
Hausa-Fulani [accept either]
jihad
Answer the following about the "Reverse Underground Railroad", in which free blacks were captured from the North and transported South into slavery. For 10 points each:
John Murrell, a notorious "conductor" on the Reverse Underground Railroad, was also a pirate on this river. Children from Illinois would frequently help slaves from Missouri escape bondage by crossing this river.
This author of Twelve Years a Slave was a free musician in New York before being victimized by the Reverse Underground Railroad. After writing his memoir, he may have been recaptured by the Reverse Railroad.
The notorious Cannon-Johnson Gang of Underground Railroad kidnappers operated primarily in this state, from which Frederick Douglass escaped slavery and in which the election of Know-Nothing mayoral candidate Thomas Swann led to massive riots in 1856.
Mississippi River
Solomon Northup
Maryland
This leader laid out his ideas in a 36-hour-long speech called the <em>Nutuk</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who propounded the pseudo-scientific Sun Language Theory and created the ideology of the Six Arrows. This leader is often blamed for the burning of the Greek quarter of the city of Smyrna.
Ataturk's successor as leader of Turkey and of his Republican People's Party was this Turkish leader during World War II who successfully kept his country neutral. This leader joined NATO after the Soviet Union attempted to force him to allow them to establish bases on the Turkish Straits.
As part of his language reforms, Ataturk switched to this alphabet from the earlier Ottoman-era Arabic script. The Common Turkic Alphabet is a modification of this alphabet used to write languages including Turkmen and Uzbek.
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk
Ismet Inönu
Latin Alphabet [accept Roman alphabet]
This leader promoted a union scheme among several countries between the Baltic and Black Seas that he called "intermarium." For 10 points each:
Name this leader who took power following World War I and defeated an invading army led by Mikhail Tukhachevsky. This leader was opposed by the anti-Semitic Roman Dmowski.
Pilsudski defeated Tukhachevsky at the Battle of Warsaw, which was nicknamed the "Miracle on" this river that flows through Poland's capital.
This Free City on the Baltic coast was coveted by Pilsudski throughout his rule. This city was separated from Germany by the Polish Corridor after the Treaty of Versailles.
Jozef Pilsudski
Vistula River [accept Wisla]
Gdansk [accept Danzig]
Answer the following about unreliable late Roman historians. For 10 points each,
Jordanes, a historian who wrote about the history of this Germanic group in his Getica, claimed that they migrated in two separate waves out of a Swedish island, thus splitting into a Western "visi" and Eastern "ostro" group.
This collection of biographies of Roman emperors purports to be the work of six authors including Julius Capitolinus and Flavius Vopiscus. This notoriously unreliable collection is the source of many of the legends surrounding Heliogabalus and, in some cases, simply invents emperors who didn't exist.
Some non-fake parts of the Historia Augusta borrow heavily from this author of the Lives of the Caesars, which records the lives of the first 12 Roman emperors.
Goths
Historia Augusta
Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus
Alain Locke edited an anthology of writing titled for this person, as well as a magazine issue labeling Harlem the "mecca" of this person. For 10 points each:
Name this person, the namesake of a "movement" founded in the 1920s by W.E.B. DuBois, who was more assertive in standing up to discrimination than his "old" counterpart.
This author, nicknamed "the Black Socrates", had his writing prominently featured in The New Negro. This author edited the Negro World and attacked the concept of the "Harlem Renaissance" on the grounds that it was based on white conceptions of value and ignored prior black authors' achievements.
"New negro" radicalism was a major challenge to the more quietist philosophy of this intellectual, who encouraged African-Americans to "cast down your bucket where you are" in his "Atlanta Compromise" speech.
The New Negro
Hubert Harrison
Booker T. Washington
Answer the following about the conquest of Northern Japan for 10 points each.
These native inhabitants of Japan were displaced from Hokkaido from the 16th to 19th centuries. They rose up against Japanese control during Koshamain's Rebellion in the 15th century and Shakushain's in the 17th.
Northern Honshu was conquered from this tribe of "hairy people" in the 8th century. Their guerrilla tactics were effective until the Japanese army began granting their members fushu status, which allowed them to fight for Japan as auxiliaries.
The Matsumae, a clique of samurai, established their dominance over trade with the Ainu during this period of widespread civil strife that preceded Oda Nobunaga's unification of Japan.
Ainu
Emishi
Sengoku jidai [accept Warring States Period]
Answer the following about assassination plots against French heads of state for 10 points each.
The mercenary Bob Denard attempted to assassinate this radical socialist prime minister. This prime minister signed the Geneva Accords to end French involvement in Indochina and withdrew French colonies from Morocco and Tunisia.
A plot by this right-wing extremist group that opposed withdrawal from Algeria nearly succeeded in assassinating Charles De Gaulle, as chronicled in Frederick Forsyth's novel The Day of the Jackal. This group was set up to oppose withdrawal from Algeria and committed the Vitry Train Bombing.
Both the assassination attempt on Charles de Gaulle and a later one against Jacques Chirac that Forsyth decried as "amateurish" occurred on this French public holiday celebrated each year on July 14.
Pierre Mendes-France
Organization Armee Secrete [accept Secret Army Organization]
Bastille Day
Answer the following about the Watts riots and their impact on California politics. For 10 points each:
This governor of California during the riots was on a trip to Europe as they were happening. He was defeated in the ensuing gubernatorial election of 1966 and his son Jerry currently serves as Governor.
After the riots, this African-American former policeman lost a Los Angeles mayoral election to the conservative Democrat Sam Yorty due to Yorty's race-baiting tactics. He would later lose a gubernatorial election to George Deukmejian despite leading in almost all major polls.
Brown's response to the Watts riots was perceived as weak, thus allowing this future president to win the governorship.
Pat Brown [prompt on just Brown]
Tom Bradley
Ronald Reagan
Over the past several years, China has drastically expanded its domestic surveillance capacity. For 10 points each:
This system that penalizes citizens for "irresponsible" behaviors such as purchasing beer or viewing anti-government posts on social media via a "score" linked to their mobile phones has been rolled out in several of China's largest cities and will soon be expanded nationally.
This Northwestern region of China populated by the Uighur ethnic group is the target of particularly intense surveillance, including hundreds of thousands of police officers and a network of civilian informants on each block.
This internal passport and household registration system makes it impossible for migrants to claim benefits in the cities they move to and allows the Chinese government to track each citizen's movement.
social credit [accept shèhuì xìnyòng tǐxì]
Xinjiang
hukou
Answer the following about family law in Latin America for 10 points each.
After the passage of this edict that ended slavery in Brazil in 1888, family courts could still award orphans or poor children's free labor to plantation owners under the guise of guardianship. This law was among the last acts of Emperor Pedro II.
An important step in reducing the influence of the principle of Patria Potestad, by which fathers' interests took precedence in family law, was this Mexican president's legalization of divorce. This governor of Chihuahua and leader of the Constitutionalist Army took power during the Mexican revolution before being deposed by Alvaro Obregon.
This first lady of Argentina secured the passage of its women's suffrage law as well as numerous other social reforms. This woman's husband, Juan, struggled to hold power after her death.
Lei Aurea [accept Golden Law]
Venustiano Carranza
Eva Peron [accept Evita; prompt on Peron]
Answer the following about the life and work of the fantastically-named English printer Wynkyn de Worde for 10 points each.
De Worde made the first known printed edition of this woman's autobiography, the first known in English. This Christian mystic and illiterate mother of ten may have employed her son, John, as a scribe.
De Worde was a student of William Caxton, who introduced the printing press to England and himself wrote a history of this city that included the death of Achilles and the use of a giant wooden horse to sack it.
De Worde was the first printer to set up shop on this London street, which later became a center of the printing and newspaper industries.
Margery Kempe
Troy [also accept Ilium or Wilusha]
Fleet Street
Answer the following about homosexuality in medieval India for 10 points each.
In this memoir, a Mughal emperor discussed his attraction to one of his slaves as well as his love for ma'joun marijuana candy. This memoir describes how its author conquered much of India from his family's base in modern Uzbekistan.
The Hindu slave Khusrau Khan briefly took this title, succeeding his lover, Qutb-ud-Din. Another holder of this title, Ibrahim Lodi, was defeated at the First Battle of Panipat, and the holders of this title ruled from modern India's capital
This "father of Urdu literature" had an ambiguously sexual relationship with his spiritual mentor, Nizamuddin. This author of a collection of five masnavis is considered an ancestor of the qawwali genre of music.
Baburnama
Sultan of Delhi
Amir Khusro
A group led by Queen Yagowania, the Erie people, were completely wiped out during this series of wars. For 10 points each:
Name this series of wars of expansion that a Native American confederacy fought to gain access to supplies of its namesake trade good. This series of wars was ended by the Treaty of La Grande Paix.
This confederacy, which at the time included the Onondaga, Oneida, and Mohawk, expanded into the Ohio Country out of their base in upstate New York during the Beaver Wars after trading furs to Europeans for modern weaponry.
This sixth member tribe of the Iroquois league joined during the Beaver Wars. This tribe, originally from North Carolina, joined the Onondaga, Oneida, Mohawk, Seneca, and Cayuga.
Beaver Wars
Iroquois League [accept Hotinoshonni or Haudenosaunee]
Tuscarora
For 10 points each, answer the following about the 1521 Diet of Worms <strong>(“Vurms”)</strong>.
It was a hearing for this leader of the Protestant Reformation, who had written 95 Theses against indulgences.
The excommunicated Luther got to have a hearing thanks to the intervention of this elector of Saxony, who was the third of his name and known as "the Wise." This man later hid Luther in Wartburg castle.
The "judge" at the Diet of Worms was the archbishop of Trier, who somehow shared his first and last name with a professor who had debated Luther at the University of Leipzig in 1519. Give either the shared first name or the shared last name of those two men.
Martin Luther
Frederick III [or Friedrich III; accept Frederick the Wise or Friedrich der Weise]
Johann Eck [accept either; accept John; accept von Eck; accept Johann Maier von Eck]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the Soviet dissident movement.
It crystalized while the Soviet Union was led by this man, the successor of Nikita Khrushchev.
Its prominent members included this physicist, who was prevented from leaving the country to receive the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize in person. He now names a prize "For Freedom of Thought" awarded by the European Parliament.
Among those who engaged in dissident activity were Soviet Jews known by this term, referring to the fact that they had been denied permission to emigrate.
Leonid (Ilyich) Brezhnev
Andrey (Dmitriyevich) Sakharov [accept Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought]
refuseniks [also accept otkazniki]
This dynasty drew its civil servants exclusively from the aristocratic Yangban class, rather than the outcast Baekjeong. For 10 points each:
Name this dynasty that ruled Korea using a strict caste system after coming to power in 1392 until it was overthrown by a Japanese invasion in 1910.
This modern country was the home of the outcast "mean people", who worked in demeaning or transient jobs until they were emancipated in the 18th century. After emancipation, they often settled in cities like Beijing or Wuhan.
This class of hereditary outcasts in Japan came to make up a disproportionate number of yakuza gangsters. A subgroup of these people who took jobs such as street-sweeping were called hinin, or non-humans.
Joseon Dynasty [also accept Yi Dynasty]
People's Republic of China [also accept Qing China, I suppose]
hisabetsu burakumin [accept eta]
He got one of his noble titles by marrying Anne Beauchamp, and he died at the Battle of Barnet. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who left his captaincy of Calais to lead a coup and capture the king at Northampton. Later the same year, he became the second earl of Salisbury when his father, the first earl, was killed at Wakefield.
Neville "the Kingmaker" fought for both sides in the 15th-century English wars named for these flowers, which both the Yorkists and Lancastrians had on their banners.
Less than a month after Neville's death, the Lancastrian forces of Margaret of Anjou, wife of Henry VI, were defeated by Edward IV at this April 4, 1471 battle, fought North of Gloucester.
Richard Neville, 16th earl of Warwick [accept either; prompt on Kingmaker]
roses
Battle of Tewkesbury
Answer the following about the Savings and Loan Crisis for 10 points each.
This Chairman of the Federal Reserve under Carter and Reagan's increase of interest rates to resolve inflation likely contributed to the onset of the Crisis. This man is the namesake of a regulatory "rule" by which banks are forbidden from proprietary trading.
This group of senators was accused of taking payments from their namesake owner of Lincoln Savings and Loan in exchange for preferential treatment during its bailout. This group included Alan Cranston, John Glenn, and John McCain as well as two other senators.
One politician from this family had his bank, Silverado Savings and Loan, fail during the crisis, thus dooming his hopes of becoming governor of Colorado. Another member of this family, Jeb, was more successful in his bid to become governor of Florida.
Paul Volcker
Keating Five
Bush
Answer some questions about the weird and wacky state of South Dakota, for 10 points each:
The South Dakota School of Mines Hardrockers play football in O'Harra Stadium, which possesses this unique property. Movie theaters of this type typically employ large outdoor projection screens and broadcast the sound over radios.
A controversial monument to this Lakota warrior has been in the process of being carved out of a mountain in South Dakota since 1948. If and when completed, it will show this man atop a horse with his hand outstretched.
Wall Drug, a part-museum, part-drugstore which Bill Bryson called "the world's worst tourist trap", is advertised in signs all over South Dakota and the world by this three-word phrase promising refreshment.
they are drive-in
Crazy Horse [or His-Horse-Is-Crazy, or Tȟašúŋke Witkó]
"free ice water"
For 10 points each, answer the following about suicides being broadcast on radio in Latin American history.
Eduardo Chibas, the leader of the Orthodox Party, committed suicide during a radio interview after years spent attacking this country's corrupt presidents, Ramon Grau and Carlos Prio Socarras.
After Salvador Allende committed suicide at the end of a radio broadcast from his besieged presidential palace, the right-wing general Augusto Pinochet took power in this South American country.
This leader of a regime he termed the "Estado Novo" had his suicide note read on air hours after he killed himself in 1954. This leader sent "pracinha" troops to fight in World War II.
Republic of Cuba
Republic of Chile
Getúlio Vargas
Answer the following about cattle being killed in Southern Africa. For 10 points each:
This leader ordered all of his realm's milk cows slaughtered after the death of his mother, Nandi, to show their calves what it was like to lose a mother. This Zulu leader developed the iklwa stabbing spear.
A massive epizootic of this cattle disease caused famines, including one that nearly wiped out the Maasai, throughout Southern Africa in the 1890s. This disease was likely initially spread by Italian colonists in the Horn of Africa.
This second-largest ethnic group in South Africa underwent a large famine after the teenaged prophet Nongqawuse (nohng-kah-woo-say) convinced them to slaughter their cattle en masse to resist the British.
Shaka Zulu
rinderpest
Xhosa (hoh-sah)
Answer the following about agriculture in 18th century England for 10 points each.
Traditions of communal village property ownership were severely weakened by this movement in which grazing commons were claimed by private landowners and fenced off.
This agriculturist and author criticized the enclosure movement as fiscally wasteful in his A Six Months Tour Through the North of England. This author later toured France, where he wrote a travelogue that is now a key source on the conditions that created the French Revolution.
This process further weakened English village economies as peasants moved to cities to staff the textile mills it created. Key events in the beginning of this historical movement include John Kay's invention of the water frame and James Hargreaves' invention of the spinning jenny
enclosure movement
Arthur Young
Industrial Revolution
Answer the following about the early history of South Carolina for 10 points each.
Much of South Carolina's early gentry originated from this Caribbean island. This island's Bajan creole likely influenced the development of South Carolina's Gullah language.
This 1715 war cleared much of South Carolina of its Native American population after its namesake tribe raided South Carolina plantations in retaliation for colonists' widespread land theft.
South Carolina was named for this English monarch who was restored to the throne after the deposition of Oliver Cromwell's son Richard. This monarch's father was executed in the English Civil War.
Barbados
Yamasee War
Charles II
Answer the following about Australia's foreign policy in the mid-20th century for 10 points each.
This Australian Prime Minister lost public support after committing troops to Vietnam and telling Lyndon Johnson that he was "All the way with LBJ."
Australia was a founding member of this international organization established by the US to coordinate its anti communist allies in its namesake region and coordinate intervention in Vietnam. This international organization collapsed in 1977 after the Vietnam War ended.
Australia held this modern-day country as a colony until granting it independence in 1975, after which it was governed from its city of Port Moresby.
Harold Holt
Southeast Asia Treaty Organization [or SEATO]
Papua New Guinea
This candidate defeated Bob Marshall, who referred to himself as his state's "chief homophobe", in a 2017 election. For 10 points each:
Name this first transgender US State legislator who was elected in a district around the city of Manassas.
NOTE TO PLAYER: Description Acceptable: In the same election, control of a state's house of delegates was decided in this manner after Democrat Shelly Simonds and Republican David Yancey both received 11,608 votes.
The elections between Marshall and Roem and Simonds and Yancey both took place in this Eastern state currently governed by Ralph Northam. This state's city of Charlottesville was the site of a violent white supremacist rally to prevent the destruction of a Confederate statue in 2017.
Danica Roem
drawing lots [accept similar answers such as drawing straws or being randomly selected]
Commonwealth of Virginia
This woman commissioned building projects including the Haseki Mosque from the architect Sinan. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who served as de facto chief advisor to her husband, who was captured by Crimean Tatar raiders and sold into concubinage from her home in modern Ukraine.
Hurrem likely had this Grand Vizier nicknamed for his Westernized manners executed. This pasha shared his name with an Egyptian royal who commanded anti-independence forces and won the Battle of Missolonghi during the Greek War of Independence.
Hurrem and Ibrahim were both powerful at the court of this sultan who conquered Rhodes and launched a failed siege of Vienna in 1529. This Sultan was succeeded by his son, Selim the Drunk.
Hurrem Sultan [accept Roxelana, Alexandra Lisowska]
Ibrahim of Parga [accept Ibrahim Pasha, Ibrahim-i-Freng, Ibrahim the Frank]
Suleiman I The Magnificent [accept Suleiman the Lawgiver, Suleyman-i-evvel, Muhtesem Suleyman; prompt on Suleiman]
Answer the following about women during the Hundred Years' War. For 10 points each:
This woman gained the nickname "Maid of Orleans" after leading French forces relieving a siege of that city. This woman was canonized after her capture by the Burgundians and execution by the English.
Joanna of Flanders led the forces of the House of Montfort against the House of Blois (“blah”) after her husband's death in a succession war named for this French region that quickly turned into an Anglo-French proxy conflict.
This Queen of France took over the administration of the country after her husband, Charles VI, began suffering from Glass Delusion. She suffered a string of defeats to the English during her early 15th century rule.
Joan of Arc [accept Jeanne d'Arc, Joan the Maid]
Brittany [accept Bretagne, or War of the Breton Succession]
Isabeau of Bavaria
For 10 points each, identify the following about books that, perhaps not completely, help explain the results of the 2016 US Election.
This Harvard political scientist's book The Tea Party and the Remaking of Republican Conservatism explains the origins of the Tea Party in rural America. More recently, this author of States and Social Revolutions has found a resurgence of moderate Democrats, particularly women, in certain states.
Some have argued that this J.D. Vance memoir helps explain Trump's support in rural America. This book, which describes Vance's upbringing in Appalachia, has been criticized by some as saying that rural white Americans are lazy.
Angela Nagle's Kill All Normies details the rise of the online part of this loosely-defined group. This group is an eclectic mix of Neo-confederates, overt fascists and other hate groups.
Theda Skocpol (“Scotch-pall”)
Hillbilly Elegy: A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis
Alt-Right [accept Alternative Right; prompt on "White Nationalism"; do NOT prompt on "Alt-Light"]
After this woman abdicated her throne, she was received by Pope Alexander VII in Rome. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, whose scheme with Cardinal Mazarin and the Duke di Modena to become queen of Naples collapsed during her visit to Fontainebleau, when she had her equerry Marchese Gian Rinaldo Monaldeschi executed for allegedly betraying her plan to the Vatican.
Christina was a Vasa ruler of this Scandinavian country, succeeding her father, Gustavus Adolphus.
Christina acceded the throne after Gustavus Adolphus was killed in this 1632 battle of the Thirty Years' War, which also saw the death of Count Pappenheim.
Christina [or Kristina]
Kingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
Battle of Lützen
Robert Muldoon's tenure as Prime Minister laid the groundwork for this policy, which was implemented by and named for a minister in the government of David Lange. For 10 points each:
Name this package of free-market reforms often blamed for a stock market crash in 1987, after which its creator was fired.
Muldoon and Lange were prime ministers of this country, where the Maori community was hit hard by the series of privatizations implemented under Rogernomics.
Robert Muldoon was a politician from this New Zealand party, currently in opposition to the Labor Party. Prime ministers from this party have included John Key, and a party of the same name in Australia is the traditional junior coalition partner of the rightist Liberal Party.
Rogernomics
New Zealand
National Party
This practice attempted to modify a certain body part into a "lotus" shape and involved breaking its target's metatarsals at the age of 5. For 10 points each:
Name this process frequently undergone by Chinese women, which scholars such as Melissa Brown have argued was a method of signaling its targets' ability to abstain from agricultural labor.
This rebellion that took over much of southern China in the mid-19th century abolished foot binding and adopted women into its army. However, in non-military spheres, the "heavenly kingdom" established by this rebellion enforced strict gender segregation.
Another group that never adopted the practice of footbinding was this Southern Chinese group. They are famed for their multi-story, circular tulou clan houses and fought a clan war with the neighboring Punti contemporaneously with the Taiping Rebellion.
foot binding
Taiping Rebellion
Hakka
Answer the following about the Congressional Brawl of 1858, which ended with the chamber collapsing in laughter after a Wisconsin congressman knocked a colleague's wig off and put it back on backwards. For 10 points each:
The brawl began as a fistfight between this Pennsylvania congressman and Laurence Keitt. After his predecessor, William Pennington, this congressman became the second of three Speakers of the House to lose their seats.
The Brawl took place during a debate over whether to admit this state to the union. "The Crime against" this state was the subject of a Charles Sumner speech that incited Preston Brooks to beat him with a cane, and "border ruffians" committed the Osawatomie Massacre in this state.
Brooks and Keitt were both from this state, later governed by the violent segregationist Ben Tillman. Brooks' uncle, Andrew Butler, was a senator from this state whose stutter was mocked in Sumner's speech.
Galusha Grow
Kansas
South Carolina
Answer the following about the 378 CE coup d'etat against King Jaguar Paw. For 10 points each:
An invading party from this city led by the general Fire Is Born overthrew Jaguar Paw. This city's Pyramid of the Sun is among Mexico's largest.
The Teotihuacano (tay-oh-tea-wa-kan-oh) coup overthrew an indigenous dynasty in the Mayan city of Tikal, which is located in this modern-day country's Peten limestone plateau.
In another military intervention almost a millennium later, Chichen Itza dispatched mercenaries to force nearby city-states to join this league, which united most Mayan city-states until its namesake city was destroyed around 1400.
Teotihuacan
Guatemala
League of Mayapan
Answer the following about historiography in the 19th century United States for 10 points each.
This historian of France and England in North America and The Oregon Trail names a prestigious prize given annually to a work of American history with literary merit.
Frederick Jackson Turner's magnum opus was titled for this concept "in American history." Turner analyzed census data to declare that this concept "closed" in 1890 after the surrender of most Plains Native Americans and theorized that this concept was a better center for analyzing American history than the East Coast.
Mercy Otis Warren, the daughter of James Otis, is best known for a trilogy about this conflict in which her father was a pivotal figure.
Francis Parkman
the frontier
American Revolution
Heh, care to debate? These figures from English history sure would. For 10 points each:
In this series of debates during the English civil war, John Lilburne represented the Levellers in conflict with other less radical members of the New Model Army.
This debate at Oxford before World War II convinced Mussolini that British youth were decadent and would be unwilling to prosecute a war against him. The text of the resolution ultimately agreed upon at this debate read: "that this house will in no circumstances fight for" its namesake two concepts.
Another famous debate at Oxford occurred between a proponent of evolution and an opponent. Name either of those interlocutors, one of whom shared a surname with his descendant Aldous, the author of Brave New World, and the other with his ancestor William, the architect of Britain's abolition of slavery.
Putney Debates
King and Country Debate
Thomas Henry Huxley or Archbishop Samuel Wilberforce
Answer the following about Mongols in China for 10 points each.
Mongols established this Chinese dynasty led by rulers including Kubla Khan. It fell to the Red Turban Rebellion, whose leader established the Ming Dynasty.
The Mongol puppet leader Demchugdongrub led the state of Mengjiang, a member of this network of Japanese puppet states that also included Puyi's state of Manchukuo.
This powerful Mongol leader menaced the Ming Dynasty's frontier in the 16th century. He established the position of Dalai Lama at his court and took a name meaning "Golden King".
Yuan Dynasty
Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere
Altan Khan
A man named Lessing with this surname sponsored the US Chess Championship from 1957 to 1969. For 10 points each:
Give this surname of his philanthropist father Julius who donated millions to establish rural schools in the South and was a leader of the Sears, Roebuck and company.
Though noble in its aims of improving education for African Americans in the South, the Rosenwald Fund supported a notorious syphilis study at this Southern school that was established by Booker T. Washington in Alabama.
Elsewhere in America, the ideas of this theorist advocated progressive education and hands-on learning and established a Laboratory school while at the University of Chicago.
Rosenwald
Tuskegee University [also accept Tuskegee Institute]
John Dewey
The first bout of fighting centered in this region was ended by the Convention of La Jaunaye. For 10 points each:
Name this region, where the "Catholic Army" changed its name to the "Catholic and Royal Army." The name change was not enough to prevent defeats at this region's towns of Cholet (shoh-lay) and Savenay.
The Vendée revolt prompted this "incorruptible" figure of the French Revolution to write that "one single will" was needed. This member of the Committee of Public Safety was guillotined in the Thermidorian Reaction.
Unrest in the Vendée began with the passage of this 1790 document, which attempted to subordinate the Catholic Church to the state through provisions such as oaths of loyalty. Pope Pius VI condemned it.
the Vendée
Maximilien(-François-Marie-Isidore) de Robespierre
Civil Constitution of the Clergy [or Constitution Civile Du Clergé]
The full text of this author's most famous work has been lost, but large parts of it are still present. For 10 points each:
Name this Seleucid ambassador to the Mauryan court who wrote Indica about his experiences.
Another Indica written by the historian Arrian describes this Macedonian king's campaigns against Indian rulers including Porous, who he defeated at the Battle of the Hydaspes.
Another Greek historian who spent a lot of time in the East was this author of the Anabasis and Cyropaedia, who commanded a retreat of a party of Greek mercenaries from Persia after their patron was defeated.
Megasthenes
Alexander the Great
Xenophon
A disputed theory propounded by Arthur Koestler in <em>The Thirteenth Tribe</em> claims that Ashkenazi Jews are mostly descended from this people. For 10 points each:
Name this Central Asian people whose khagan, Joseph, apocryphally exchanged a namesake series of letters with the Caliphate of Cordoba foreign service after their conversion to Judaism.
This city contains the Tughril Beg Madrasa, which was built under the rule of the Timurid Dynasty that had its capital at this silk road entrepot in modern-day Uzbekistan.
Another early Khaganate was established by these people who created the Orkhon Inscriptions in their Runic script and are known in Chinese sources as the Tujue. They were ruled by the Ashina Clan for most of their existence.
Khazars [accept Kazaria]
Samarkand
Gökturks [prompt on Turks]
This man led his umbrella labor organization into a 1955 merger with one led by George Meany. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who led the CIO into its merger with the AFL.
Reuther led the UAW in the "Battle of the Overpass" against this man's company. This man pioneered the assembly line to make his Model T, and also ran the column "The International Jew" in his Dearborn Independent.
As Reuther's relationship with Meany worsened, he withdrew the UAW from the AFL-CIO and allied it with this union in an "Alliance for Labor Action." This union had been expelled from the AFL-CIO in 1958 because of its corruption, an unsurprising consequence of having James Hoffa as its president.
Walter Philip Reuther
Henry Ford [accept Ford Motor Company]
Teamsters union [accept International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America or International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Stablemen and Helpers of America; prompt on IBT]
Answer some questions about everyone's favorite member of the Byzantine Komnenos family, Anna, for 10 points each:
Anna is best known for writing a history of her father Alexios' reign, focusing on his role in this crusade which was called by Pope Urban II at the Council of Clermont.
Anna and her mother Irene attempted to place Anna's husband Nikephoros on the throne in a coup against her brother with this name. An earlier emperor with his name of the Tzimiskes family came to power after assassinating Nikephoros II.
Anna was originally slated to marry a man from this prominent family named Constantine who co-ruled with his father Michael VII. The emperor Constantine X was also a member of this family, as was Anna's mother Irene.
First Crusade
John [accept John II the Good]
Doukas [accept word forms like Doukai or Doukania]
The Banyamulenge <strong>(“Ban-ya-moo-len-gay”)</strong> are a subgroup of this ethnic group that has been targeted by the Mai-Mai militia in their native North Kivu province. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group who were also the targets of a campaign of terror by a group whose name translates as "those who work together" called the Interahamwe. That campaign was ended by this group’s RPF militia.
The Interahamwe participated in mass killings of Tutsi in this East African country now led by the former Tutsi rebel Paul Kagame. An ideology of "Hutu power" was developed in this country by media outlets like Radio Mil Colonnes.
The Rwandan Genocide began after a plane crash under suspicious circumstances killed this president of Rwanda who had earlier signed the Arusha Accords with the RPF along with the president of Burundi, Cyprien Ntaryamira (en-tar-yah-mee-rah).
Tutsi [prompt on, but do not reveal, Banyarwanda]
Rwanda
Juvenal Habyarimana [be somewhat lenient with pronunciation]
In this speech, the title question was answered with "a day that reveals to him, more than all other days in the year, the gross injustice and cruelty to which he is the constant victim." For 10 points each:
Name this speech, which declared "your shout of liberty and equality" to be "hollow mockery," and that "[t]here is not a nation on the earth guilty of practices more shocking and bloody" than the United States.
"What, to the slave, is the Fourth of July?" was a speech given by this man, who wrote a Narrative of his life as "an American slave" and founded the abolitionist newspaper The North Star.
During the Civil War, two of Douglass's sons served in this black regiment. Robert Gould Shaw led this regiment in an attack on Fort Wagner.
"What, to the slave, is the Fourth of July?" [or "What, to a slave, is the Fourth of July?"]
Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
54th Massachusetts (Volunteer Infantry) Regiment
Answer the following about the languages of the Iberian Peninsula. For 10 points each,
Similarities between several different ancient Iberian languages from different families have led to the hypothesis that ancient Iberia was one of these regions in which common linguistic traits spread between unrelated languages.
This language spoken in Northwestern Spain is generally considered more similar to Portuguese than Spanish. This was the language most often used by medieval Spanish troubadours, and King Alfonso X of Castile composed poetry in this language.
Crucial evidence for the Iberian sprachbund theory comes from this modern language unrelated to any other extant language. It is spoken in the mountainous region on the French-Spanish border and is also known as Euskara.
sprachbunds
Galician [accept Galego]
Basque [accept Euskara if the entire bonus wasn’t read]
Answer the following about black conquistadors for 10 points each.
The former slave Juan Valiente, after participating in the conquest of Peru, died while fighting this tribe. Wars against this tribe inspired the writing of the Araucaniad and were led by Pedro de Valdivia.
Juan Garrido, another former slave, introduced wheat to North America and was rewarded with a large farm after participating in this man's 1520 invasion of the Aztec Empire
The mixed-race Juan Garcia held a post as town crier in this Peruvian city after participating in Pizarro's conquest of the Inca Empire, during which Atahualpa was captured in this city led by a lord who collaborated with the Spanish.
Mapuche
Hernán Cortés de Monroy
Cajamarca
The city of Amritsar has played a pivotal role in Indian history. For 10 points each:
This British general ordered the Amritsar massacre at a nationalist demonstration in 1919. A parliamentary inquiry later acquitted him of responsibility.
Amritsar is home to this holiest site in Sikhism, which was assaulted in Operation Blue Star.
This Indian prime minister, who suspended constraints on her rule during the Emergency, was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards in revenge for Operation Blue Star.
Sir Reginald Dyer
Sri Harmandir Sahib [accept Golden Temple]
Indira Gandhi [prompt on Gandhi]
The historic Black Church in this city is so named because of a devastating 17th century fire, but is actually gray. For 10 points each:
Name this Romanian city known in German as Kronstadt. Much of the walls of its Old City have been preserved, including bastions such as the Weavers' Bastion, which now hosts a museum. It is overlooked by the Tâmpa mountain, to which visitors may take a cable car.
Another building called the "Black Church" is the former St. Mary's Chapel of Ease, which has now been converted to an office building in this capital city of Ireland also home to St. Patrick's Cathedral.
One of the first "black churches" in a different sense, the African Methodist Episcopal Church, was founded by former slave Richard Allen in this U.S. city whose neighborhoods include Rittenhouse Square.
Braşov (bra-shov) [or Brassó (bra-shoh)]
Dublin
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Answer the following about the Blackwell family's involvement in 19th century Feminism for 10 points each.
Elizabeth Blackwell was the first American woman to practice this profession. They weren’t nurses, but Blackwell paved the way for future practitioners of this profession during the civil war like Mary Edwards Walker, who helped reduce the Union Army's casualty rates from disease.
During Henry Blackwell's wedding to this suffragette pioneer, they read a joint protest against laws that guaranteed men "the absolute right to the product of [their wives'] industry." Blackwell and this woman later co-founded the Woman's Journal.
Anna Blackwell, the eldest Blackwell child, was a community leader in this Fourierist utopian community in Massachusetts that had an intellectual rivalry with nearby Fruitlands. Nathaniel Hawthorne fictionalized his experiences in this community in The Blithedale Romance.
medicine [accept reasonable equivalents but do not accept "nursing"]
Lucy Stone
Brook Farm
This nobleman used the Tavora Affair as an excuse to purge his enemies. For 10 points each:
Name this advisor of his country's King Joseph, who greatly expanded the University of Coimbra and enacted several anti-clerical policies.
The Marquis of Pombal collaborated with the architect Eugenio dos Santos on a massive urban renewal program after this 1755 event that destroyed much of his capital.
Pombal ended this organization's jurisdiction over Native American policy in Brazil and seized much of its property in Portugal itself. This organization dispatched missionaries such as Francis Xavier to Asia.
Marquis of Pombal
1755 Lisbon Earthquake [accept All Saints' Day Earthquake]
Society of Jesus [accept Jesuit Order]
This leader reclassified thousands of orphans as mentally ill in order to claim extra federal subsidies for their care, leading to abuse of children in insane asylums on a massive scale. For 10 points each:
Name this Quebecois leader who implemented a set of conservative policies called the Great Darkness before his Union Nationale Party was deposed in 1959.
The First Nations boy Chanie Wenjack died trying to escape from one of these institutions in Canada. The largest institution of this type in the United States was located at Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
This organization was given wide power over the administration of schools and orphanages under Duplessis' government. This organization's power was curtailed in Quebec during the Quiet Revolution.
Maurice Duplessis (Doo-pless-ee)
Residential Schools [accept Indian Schools or Boarding Schools]
Roman Catholic Church [prompt on "The Church"]
Answer the following about the Revolt of the Three Feudatories for 10 points each.
The Revolt of the Three Feudatories occurred under this Chinese dynasty. This dynasty ruled China in the 1670s during the outbreak of the revolt.
This most capable of the Three Feudatories, who had his base in Sichuan, was a former Ming general who defected to the Qing after his favorite concubine and father were executed by the bandit leader Li Zicheng.
This Qing emperor suppressed the Revolt of the Three Feudatories. The Chinese Rites Controversy occurred while Matteo Ricci was a visitor at this man's court, and the Treaty of Nerchinsk was signed during this man's reign.
Qing Dynasty [accept Manchu Dynasty]
Wu Sangui
Kangxi Emperor
Answer the following about the relationship between Norway and Scotland for 10 points each.
The Norwegian princess Margaret died of a fever at age 7 after succeeding this Scottish king, thus sparking a succession crisis in Scotland that led to an English invasion. This king conquered most of the Western Isles from Norway and died after riding his horse off a cliff on his way to visit his queen.
Norway retained this archipelago until the late 15th century, when it was pawned to Scotland to pay for a Norwegian princess's dowry. This archipelago centered on the island of Mainland is part of the Northern Isles along with the Shetland Islands.
More recently, Scotland and Norway have collaborated to exploit reserves of this commodity in the North Sea. Neither Scotland nor Norway is a member of OPEC, a cartel that trades in this commodity.
Alexander III
Orkney Islands
petroleum [accept oil, natural gas, equivalents]
Answer the following about conflicts between the Byzantine and Sassanid Empires for 10 points each.
The Byzantines and Sassanids supported opposite sides during this event in which an Aksumite expedition crossed the Bab al-Mandab and was only stopped from entering Mecca by its namesake animal refusing to enter the city.
The Byzantine-Sassanid conflicts briefly paused after this treaty, in which the Byzantines promised to withdraw from the fortress of Dara and pay 11,000 pounds of gold in exchange for an end to the Iberian War.
This Byzantine emperor signed the Eternal Peace with Kavadh I. This emperor's wife, Theodora, helped him suppress the Nika Riots.
Year of the Elephant [or ʿĀmu l-Fīl, Prompt on Ethiopian Invasion of Arabian Peninsula, Mecca, similar answers]
Eternal Peace [accept Perpetual Peace, aperantos eirene]
Justinian I the Great
The beginning of this document contained a pledge to "restore the bonds of trust between the people and their elected representatives". For 10 points each:
Name this document that laid out a 10-point plan which advocated a Congressional audit and a $500 tax credit for having children, as well as a proposal for a "citizen legislature act" that would have introduced congressional term limits.
The primary author of the Contract With America was this Georgia congressman who became Speaker of the House after a major win in midterm elections but subsequently failed to implement the Contract's proposals.
The Contract With America was released in advance of this election, the first midterm election of Bill Clinton's presidency, which saw major Democratic losses after a failed attempt to pass a major healthcare reform.
Contract with America [prompt, but DO NOT otherwise reveal, on 1994 Republican platform]
Newton "Newt" Leroy Gingrich
1994 general election
Answer the following about obscenely wealthy people in late 19th century South America for 10 points each.
Simon Iturri Patino was nicknamed the "Andean Rockefeller" for the fat stacks he acquired mining this metal at Huanuni in Bolivia. He committed the Uncias Massacre against striking workers in this industry.
Carlos Fitzcarrald became obscenely wealthy by enslaving Native Americans to extract this crop. A massive plantation for this crop, Fordlandia, was built in the Brazilian Amazon to supply the auto industry.
This capital city of Brazil's Amazonas State still has a massive opera house due to the rubber boom of the late 19th century. That boom, however, ended when rubber seeds were smuggled out of Brazil to Southeast Asia, thus breaking their monopoly.
Tin
rubber [accept latex]
Manaus
Answer the following about the career of Nebraska representative George Norris for 10 points each.
Norris co-sponsored a reform of labor laws with this New York representative who would later serve as Mayor of New York City in 1932. That law banned yellow-dog contracts and made it significantly easier to unionize without an employer's consent.
Norris led a revolt of liberal Republicans that stripped this autocratic Speaker of the House from Illinois of his power to assign committees and his seat on the Rules Committee. That revolt succeeded in large part because many Irish supporters of this man were out of the House at St. Patrick's Day celebrations.
Norris was known as the "father of" this massive hydroelectricity scheme that built a series of dams in the watershed of its namesake Southern river. The first dam built as part of it was named for him.
Fiorello H. La Guardia
Joseph Gurney "Uncle Joe" Cannon
Tennessee Valley Authority
An article on this website by Elizabeth Nolan Brown detailed how FOSTA has actually not reduced the long-term prevalence of online ads for sexual activities. For 10 points each:
Name this online magazine whose slogan is "Free Minds and Free Markets." Nick Gillespie has written for this website wrote a book with this website's writer Matt Welch called The Declaration of Independents.
Reason has historically aligned itself with this American political party whose 2016 presidential candidate was Gary Johnson.
This other magazine, a socialist magazine published in New York, has been praised by people such as Noam Chomsky. Partially edited by Bhaskar Sunkara, this magazine supports political movements such as the Democratic Socialists.
Reason.com
Libertarian Party
Jacobin Magazine
According to chroniclers, mercury would seep out of the decomposing corpses of miners who died at this site. For 10 points each:
Name this Peruvian city home to a "mercury mountain" whose deposits became much more crucial after mercury-intensive silver refining processes were introduced at neighboring Potosi.
This labor system, adapted from existing Andean models, drafted peasants to work in mining or plantation agriculture for an ever-expanding portion of the year. Huancavelica was the most dreaded assignment under this system.
The first empire to use the Mit'a system was this one, which controlled most of the Andes before its conquest in 1534. This empire was last ruled by Atahualpa.
Huancavelica
mit'a [prompt on corvee]
Inca
A diplomat with this surname called for direct American intervention into Pakistan in 2012. For 10 points each:
Give this surname of Husain, the former Pakistani Ambassador to the United States. Two men of this surname, Jalaluddin and Sirajuddin, lead a "network" of insurgents in Afghanistan.
Husain Haqqani began his career as a supporter of this Pakistani dictator who was backed by the United States and Saudi Arabia in the Soviet-Afghan War. This man was the longest-serving leader in Pakistan's history.
Zia ul-Haq came to power after a military coup deposed a leader with this other surname. A female Prime Minister with this surname was assassinated in 2007 and previously led the Pakistan Peoples Party.
Haqqani
Muhammad Zia ul-Haq [Accept either underlined portion]
Bhutto [accept Benazir Bhutto or Zulfikar Ali Bhutto]
A copy of this agreement was lost in 2008 by Željko Komšić <strong>(zhel-koh kom-sheech)</strong>. For 10 points each:
Identify this agreement signed in 1995 that resulted in various territorial changes in the Balkans. It was signed at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
The Dayton Accords ended this conflict between Balkan states. The Serb-led Srebrenica (sreh-breh-neets-uh) massacre during this war has been cited as an example of post-World War II genocide.
This US diplomat was the chief negotiator of the Dayton Accords. He was passed over to be Secretary of State upon the retirement of Warren Christopher, and later served as Ambassador to the United Nations under Clinton and Special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan under Obama.
Dayton Accords [or Dayton Agreement or Dayton-Paris Agreement; accept General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina; accept Paris Protocol]
Bosnian War
Richard Holbrooke
For 10 points each, answer the following about early fighting in the Korean War — er, "police action."
This American general, who later commanded U.N. forces in the Korean War until Harry Truman fired him, began the piecemeal deployment of U.S. troops. During World War II, he promised the Philippines "I shall return."
The U.S. field army of this number was the first to arrive in South Korea, under the command of Walton Walker. It is still stationed in South Korea.
The Eighth Army set about defending a "perimeter" named for this South Korean Port city.
Douglas MacArthur
United States Eighth Army
Pusan [or Busan; accept Pusan Perimeter]
For 10 points each, answer the following questions related to the Solomonic dynasty.
The Solomonids ruled what is now this country. This country was also home to the kingdom of Axum, and its later ruler Menelik II fought off the Italians at the Battle of Adwa.
The Solomonids' descent from King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba is chronicled in this book, whose title means "Glory of the Kings." Its 32nd chapter relates the birth of Menelik I, the son of Solomon and the queen.
This Solomonid ruler imposed the celebration of two Sabbaths at the 1450 Council of Dabra Mitmaq. He also founded the city of Dabra Berhan, and defeated the Adal sultanate in the 1445 Battle of Gomit.
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia [or Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik]
the Kebra Nagast
Zara Yaqob
Answer the following about attacks on Roman control in Hispania, for 10 points each.
This former shepherd and leader of the Lusitani rose up against Roman control after a governor dug a trench around a group of Lusitani and killed them while they were surrendering their weapons. This leader defeated a Roman army at the Battle of Mt. Veneris.
The governor who massacred the Lusitani and instigated Viriathus's revolt had this name. This name was shared by the first emperor of the Year of the Four Emperors who was succeeded by Otho.
Rome initially gained control of Hispania from this city, which conquered much of Hispania from its native Celtiberians under its general Hamilcar Barca.
Viriathus
Servius Sulpicius Galba
Carthage [accept Qart Hadasht]
This event's perpetrator was angered by the mayor's decision to appoint Don Horanzy to the seat he had previously held. For 10 points each:
Identify this event in which Dan White, a recently retired member of the Board of Supervisors, shot the mayor and a rival member of the board. White's subsequent conviction for manslaughter rather than murder sparked the so-called White Night riots.
Following the shooting, Milk's body was discovered by this politician who was then the president of the Board of Supervisors. This politician replaced Moscone as mayor, eventually being elected in her own right to two full terms.
The assassinations of Moscone and Milk took place in this Bay Area California city.
the assassination of George Moscone and Harvey Milk [accept anything mentioning killing and either Milk or Moscone]
Dianne Feinstein
San Francisco
Answer the following about Papal bulls in the 15th century that all relate to Portugal for 10 points each.
This bull issued in 1494 confirmed the Treaty of Tordesillas, which divided the world into Spanish and Portuguese spheres of influence.
The bull Dum Diversas, issued by Pope Nicholas V, legitimized this practice for captives in Portuguese colonial wars against non-Christians. This practice's abolition in Brazil in 1888 garnered an approving note from Pope Pius IX.
Inter Caetera was issued by this pope, a non-celibate member of the Borgia family who apocryphally held the debauched "banquet of the chestnuts". Other bulls issued by this pope were the source of the "requirement" read to Native Americans before Spanish colonial wars.
Inter Caetera
perpetual slavery [accept in servitudinam perpetuam]
Alexander VI [accept Rodrigo Borgia or Rodrigo de Borja]
This country's civil war led to an Israeli invasion to establish a buffer zone and led to the founding of Hezbollah. For 10 points each:
Name this country where US marines intervened in 1958 to suppress a Muslim rebellion against the Maronite-led government of Camille Chamoun. This country's capital of Beirut was struck by heavy fighting during this country's civil war.
The Lebanese Civil War was ended by this agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, Lebanon's president is Maronite, its Prime Minister is Sunni, and the speaker of its parliament is Shia. This agreement signed in Saudi Arabia also forced Israel and Syria to withdraw troops from Lebanon.
This religious community was not granted a major position of power by the Taif Accord. This community in Lebanon is centered on a namesake mountain and its leaders, Kamal and Walid Jumblatt, are also the heads of Lebanon's Progressive Socialist Party.
Republic of Lebanon [accept Jumhuriyah al-Lubnaan]
Taif Accord [also accept Taif Agreement]
Druze
This structure was described by one official as "comparable only to the Great Wall of China." For 10 points each:
Name this structure with outer barriers made of plum and acacia trees to prevent smuggling. This structure ran from the city of Burhanpur to its country's Southern coast and was at least 6 feet thick at all points.
The Great Hedge was built to block transport of this good from India's Western to Eastern half. One mass mobilization to extract this resource ended at the Gujarati city of Dandi.
The Dandi Salt March was organized by Mohandas Gandhi, who organized to end the rule of this government that built the Great Hedge.
Great Hedge of India
Sea salt
British Raj [prompt on British Empire]
The British writer Edith Durham was known for her travelogues promoting this country’s culture in the early 20th century, including one titled <em>High</em> [this country]. For 10 points each:
Name this European country whose UNESCO World Heritage sites include the cities of Buthrotum and Gjirokastër (“jee-roh-KAH-ster”). Krujë (“KROO-yuh”) Castle in this country houses its Skanderbeg Museum.
Gjirokastër is notable for its large population of this ethnic group, which inhabits the historical region of Epirus. The two main ethnic groups of Cyprus are Turks in the north and this group in the south.
In 1914, Albania and Greece signed a protocol on this Greek island, giving autonomy to Albania’s Greek minority. This Ionian island has a New Fortress that was built during its time as a Venetian colony.
Albania [or Shqipëria; or Republika e Shqipërisë]
Greeks [or Ellinas or Hellenes]
Corfu [or Kerkyra; or Korkyra] &lt;AP, Other&gt;
In order to prevent starvation during an Arctic expedition, this explorer ate his shoe leather and thus was billed in the press as “the man who ate his boots.” For 10 points each:
Name this British explorer who disappeared in 1847 along with his ships the Erebus and the Terror during an attempt to find the Northwest Passage. John Rae later accused his expedition of resorting to cannibalism.
John Rae was an employee of this company who interviewed Inuit near the area of the wrecks. This company, which traded its point blankets for Native Americans’ furs, had exclusive rights to Rupert’s Land.
John Franklin’s last voyage took place during the reign of this queen, who spent many years of her life wearing black and mourning the death of her husband, Prince Albert.
John Franklin
Hudson’s Bay Company [or HBC; or Compagnie de la Baie d’Hudson; or The Bay; or La Baie; do not accept “Hudson Bay Company” or “Hudson Bay’s Company”]
Victoria &lt;AP, European History&gt;
Historian E. M. Rose argued that Simon de Novers helped spread rumors about the death of a boy with this name to free himself from being punished for killing a Jewish banker. For 10 points each:
Give the name of that English boy from Norwich, who was venerated as a saint after he was allegedly tortured and murdered by Jews in 1144. The contemporary Archbishop of York, who also had this name, was deposed from his see following his quarrels with the Cistercians.
The death of William of Norwich is the first recorded instance of this anti-Semitic myth, which held that Jews ritually murder Christian boys on Passover to make matzah.
In 1290, anti-Semitism in England culminated with this monarch’s expulsion of the Jews. This monarch, who was nicknamed after his long legs, defeated William Wallace at the Battle of Falkirk.
William [accept William of Norwich or William of York]
blood libel [or blood accusation]
Edward I [or Edward Longshanks] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
This standard prevented the plaintiffs from arguing that the Endangered Species Act ought to be applied abroad in <em>Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this legal standard that requires a plaintiff to establish injury-in-fact, causation, and redressability in order to bring a case.
This Supreme Court justice famously argued that the standing doctrine ought to be expanded to allow inanimate objects, like trees, to bring lawsuits in his dissenting opinion in Sierra Club v. Morton.
The standard established in Flast v. Cohen grants people who do this action the standing to sue the government over the appropriation of funds. People who do this action fill out the 1040 form provided by the IRS.
standing [or locus standi]
William O. Douglas
pay taxes [or taxpayers or file taxes or equivalents; accept specific variations like pay income tax] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
Following the end of apartheid, a public holiday celebrating this battle called the Day of the Vow was replaced with the Day of Reconciliation. For 10 points each:
Name this 1838 battle that saw Andries Pretorius lead a small group of Voortrekkers (“FOR-trekkers”) to victory over ten thousand Zulu warriors.
The Voortrekkers left the Cape Colony and established two independent republics, Transvaal and the Orange Free State, which were annexed by the British after this war, which had been preceded by the Jameson Raid.
The Jameson Raid led to the resignation of this diamond magnate as the British Cape Colony’s prime minister. In his will, he established a namesake scholarship to study at Oxford.
Battle of Blood River
Second Boer War [or Anglo-Boer War or South African War]
Cecil Rhodes [or Cecil John Rhodes; accept Rhodes Scholarship] &lt;CK, World History&gt;
During this war, an Irish immigrant named Jennie Hodgers took the name of Albert D. Cashier and served as an infantryman, continuing to live as a man after this war. For 10 points each:
Name this war in which a number of women served in combat roles in disguise as men, such as Loreta Velazquez, who was exposed after being wounded by an exploding shell at the Battle of Shiloh.
During the Civil War, this woman earned the nickname “Angel of the Battlefield” for her work in bringing supplies to wounded soldiers at Antietam and elsewhere. This woman founded the American Red Cross in 1881.
This woman became the first, and so far, only female Medal of Honor recipient for serving as a Union surgeon. After the war, her preference for men’s clothing led her to be arrested several times for impersonating a man.
American Civil War [or War Between the States; accept War of Northern Aggression]
Clara Barton [or Clarissa Harlowe Barton]
Mary Walker [or Mary Edward Walker] &lt;AE, American History&gt;
This animal-rights activist blew the whistle against Edward Taub, a psychologist who severed the nerves of the “Silver Spring monkeys” and subjected them to shocks to research neuroplasticity. For 10 points each:
Name this animal rights activist who co-founded PETA with the British activist Ingrid Newkirk in 1980.
Pacheco served as a crew member with the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, which rammed the Sierra in 1979 to thwart this activity. The IWC regulates this activity and allows it for ostensibly scientific purposes.
The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society has frequently clashed with whalers from this East Asian country, which withdrew from the IWC in December 2018 and declared its intent to resume commercial whaling.
Alex Pacheco [or Alexander Fernando Pacheco]
whaling [or hunting whales; or killing whales; or equivalents]
Japan [or Nippon] &lt;AP, Other&gt;
This monarch set up a private army called the Force Publique that terrorized the inhabitants of his colony by cutting off the hands of workers who failed to meet rubber collection quotas. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who ruled the Congo Free State as his private property. This monarch hired Henry Morton Stanley to help establish his rule in the Congo Free State.
Leopold II was the king of this country, whose government took over the Congo Free State in 1908. This country granted independence to the Congo in 1960.
In establishing control of the Congo Free State, Leopold II clashed with this Arab trader of slaves and ivory, whom he attempted to co-opt with an appointment as the governor of the Stanley Falls district.
Leopold II
Belgium [or Kingdom of Belgium]
Tippu Tip [or Tippu Tib or Muhammad bin Hamid] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
In 1662, this leader sent the Dominican missionary Vittorio Riccio to Manila as an envoy to demand that the governor of the Philippines should pay tribute to him. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese pirate and Ming-dynasty loyalist who captured Fort Zeelandia from the Dutch East India Company and established the kingdom of Dōngníng.
Koxinga established Chinese control over this island, which became the destination of Chiang Kai-Shek and the remnants of the KMT following their defeat by the Communists in the Chinese Civil War.
Taiwan may have been the location of an expedition sent to Liúqiú (“l’yoh-ch’yoh”) by Emperor Yáng, the second emperor of this dynasty. The Grand Canal was constructed during this brief dynasty.
Koxinga (“coke-SING-ah”) [or Coxinga; or Guóxìngyé or Zhѐng Chénggōng]
Taiwan [or Formosa]
Suí (“sway”) Dynasty &lt;AE, World History&gt;
This political party was founded by Umberto Bossi, who used the slogan, “Roma ladrona,” or “thieving Romans!” For 10 points each:
Name this right-wing populist political party that governs Italy in a coalition of Eurosceptics (“euro-skeptics”) with the Five Star Movement. This political party once emphasized the regionalist ideology of “Padanian nationalism.”
The Lega Nord is headed by this politician, who serves as Deputy Prime Minister along with Luigi Di Maio of the Five Star Movement. As Interior Minister, he refused to allow entry for the refugee rescue ship Aquarius.
In 1994, the Lega Nord under Umberto Bossi joined a coalition with the Forza Italia party of this Italian politician, whose many controversies include soliciting sex from underage prostitutes at “bunga bunga” parties.
Lega Nord [or Northern League or LN or Lega Nord per l’Indipendenza della Padania; or il Carroccio]
Matteo Salvini
Silvio Berlusconi &lt;WC, Other&gt;
This monarch died while on crusade due to a plague while he was invading Tunisia, but he had previously managed to capture Damietta during the Seventh Crusade. For 10 points each:
Name this French king from the Capetian dynasty who was canonized by Pope Boniface VIII (“the eighth”). He held the 1240 Disputation of Paris in which four rabbis defended the Talmud against the Christian convert Nicholas Donin.
In 1229, Louis IX signed the Treaty of Paris with this count, curtailing the independence of Toulouse from the French crown. After a failed revolt, the Treaty of Lorris (“lo-REESE”) further reduced this count’s independence.
The Treaty of Paris put an end to a crusade against members of this Christian heresy in southern France. This heresy professed dualism and divided its members into the “perfects” and the “believers.”
Louis IX [or St. Louis]
Raymond VII [prompt on Raymond of Toulouse]
Cathars [or Catharism or Cathari; or Albigensians or Albigensianism or Albigenses] &lt;WC, European History&gt;
The massive temple complex of Todai-ji was constructed during this period as the center of a system of provincial temples known as <em>kokubun-ji</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this period of Japanese history in the 8th century that began with the establishment of Heijō-kyō as the capital. This period was followed by the Heian (“HAY-on”) period.
The Nara period saw the composition of this first written history of Japan, which was commissioned by Empress Genmei (“GEHM-may”). About a decade later, this text was followed by the Nihon Shoki.
After the Nara period, Emperor Kammu moved the capital to Heian-kyō, now this modern city. This city remained as the site of the imperial court until the Meiji Restoration, despite severe damage during the Ōnin War.
Nara period
Kojiki [accept Records of Ancient Matters or An Account of Ancient Matters; accept Furukotofumi]
Kyōto &lt;AE, World History&gt;
During this event, a woman called La Voisin (“vwah-ZANN”) confessed to having murdered no fewer than 2,500 infants. For 10 points each:
Name this sensational event in French history that exposed the fact that many members of French society had been hiring female fortune-tellers for criminal purposes. This event implicated the Madame de Montespan (“mon-teh-SPAWN”).
The Madame de Montespan was the mistress of this French king, during whose reign the Affair of the Poisons took place. This king, who was called the “Sun King,” built the Palace of Versailles.
This general’s mother, Olympe Mancini (“oh-LAMP mahn-CHEE-nee”), was expelled from the French court as a result of the Affair of the Poisons. Fighting for Austria, this general defeated the French at the Battle of Blenheim (“BLEN-um”).
Affair of the Poisons [or L’affaire des poisons]
Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis le Grand Monarque]
Eugene of Savoy [or François-Eugène de Savoie or Franz Eugen von Savoyen] &lt;JH, European History&gt;
Artur Moreira de Sá requested that 2,000 copies of a book promoting this idea be sent to his country’s foreign ministry to indoctrinate diplomats with this idea. For 10 points each:
Name this idea originally developed by Gilberto Freyre (“zheel-BAIR-too FRAY-ree”) which held that because a certain country had a warmer climate and was less racist, it acted as a more effective colonizer.
This leader used the idea of Lusotropicalism to justify his country’s holding of overseas colonies such as Mozambique and Angola. This leader established the Estado Novo (“ish-TAH-doo NOH-voo”) regime that was toppled by the Carnation Revolution.
Salazar was a dictator of this country, which gave independence to Angola and Mozambique in the 1970s after Salazar’s overthrow. In 1961, this country lost control of Goa after it was taken by India.
Lusotropicalism [or Luso-tropicalismo]
António Salazar [or António de Oliveira Salazar]
Portugal &lt;JL, European History&gt;
The flag of this province contains several red water lilies called <em>pompeblêden</em>, which are often mistaken for hearts. For 10 points each:
Name this northern Dutch province. The language that shares its name with this province is considered to be one of the languages most similar to English.
Three Dutch provinces have flags with red lions rampant: South Holland, Limburg, and this least populous Dutch province. This province is the namesake of an island country separated from Australia by the Tasman Sea.
Flevoland’s (“FLAY-vo-lont’s”) flag has one of these symbols as a pun on the name of the engineer who designed the polders to reclaim Flevoland. Four of these symbols are white on a blue background in the flag of Quebec.
Friesland (“FREEZ-lont”) [or Fryslân; or Frisia; or Frisian languages]
Zeeland (“ZAY-lont”) [accept New Zealand]
fleur-de-lis [or fleur-de-lys; or flower of luce; accept Fleurdelisé; prompt on flower; prompt on lily or lilies] (The engineer was named Cornelis Lely.) &lt;AP, Other&gt;
In 1970, William Shockley, a Nobel Prize-winning inventor of the transistor, proposed a plan to pay people 1,000 dollars for each IQ point under 100 to undergo this surgical procedure. For 10 points each:
Name this surgical procedure, whose compulsory form was declared constitutional in Buck v. Bell. In the majority opinion in that case, Oliver Wendell Holmes stated, “Three generations of imbeciles are enough.”
At this physician’s Battle Creek Sanitarium, he hosted three eugenics conferences for the Race Betterment Foundation. This physician developed a namesake variety of cornflakes that he served to his patients for breakfast.
The term “eugenics” was first coined by this British scientist, who advocated arranged marriages in Hereditary Genius. He set up an endowment to create a namesake chair for eugenics that employed Karl Pearson.
compulsory sterilization [or forced sterilization or sterilize or other word forms; prompt on eugenics; prompt on descriptive answers like making people unable to have children]
John Harvey Kellogg
Francis Galton &lt;JH, American History&gt;
Answer the following about the history of the South American drink <em>mate</em> (“MAH-tay”). For 10 points each:
The 1767 suppression of the Jesuits by Spain led to a decline in yerba mate (“ZHAIR-ba MAH-tay”) production on Jesuit “reductions,” which were settlements for indigenous people that fell outside of this system that gave grants of forced native labor.
This country was a major producer of yerba mate until it was devastated in the War of the Triple Alliance under its president Francisco Solano López.
The consumption of mate originated with this indigenous group, who inhabited a so-called “Jesuit Utopia” of the reductions. Along with Spanish, their language is an official language of Paraguay.
encomienda [accept repartimiento]
Paraguay [or Paraguái]
Guaraní (“gwah-ra-NEE”) &lt;AP, World History&gt;
This general was accused of deliberately underestimating the strength of the Viet Cong in the Order of Battle Controversy. For 10 points each:
Name this commander of US forces in Vietnam, who was replaced in 1968 by Creighton Abrams. In 1982, he brought a libel suit against CBS for airing a documentary about the Order of Battle Controversy.
Because of Westmoreland’s incorrect estimates of Viet Cong strength, American forces were caught by surprise during this wave of attacks that occurred during the 1968 Lunar New Year.
The Tet Offensive may have been orchestrated to divert troops away from this siege of a Marine base by North Vietnamese forces. Lyndon Johnson vetoed Westmoreland’s plan to end this siege using nuclear weapons.
William Westmoreland
Tet Offensive
Siege of Khe Sanh &lt;CK, American History&gt;
A book about these people was prefaced with the papal bull <em>Summis desiderantes affectibus</em>, which had given Johann Sprenger and Heinrich Kraemer authority to persecute these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people who were accused of performing magic with the aid of demons. The Malleus Maleficarum was a handbook on finding these people and putting them on trial.
This English witch hunter called himself the “Witchfinder General” during the English Civil War. He made use of the “swimming test” by tossing the accused witch into water and seeing if they would float.
This Enlightenment-era Austrian monarch curtailed the execution of witches on the advice of court physician Gerard van Swieten, who also disproved the existence of vampires after being asked by this monarch to investigate.
witches [accept sorcerers or sorceresses]
Matthew Hopkins
Maria Theresa [or Maria Theresia] &lt;JS, European History&gt;
Following this battle, a soldier from the winning side smashed a looted sacred vase, prompting this battle’s winning commander to smash the offending soldier’s head with an axe a year later. For 10 points each:
Name this 486 CE battle in which a king of the Franks defeated Syagrius, a “king of the Romans” who ruled a rump state of the Western Roman Empire in Gaul.
This king of the Franks won the Battle of Soissons. This Merovingian king, who issued the Salic Law, supposedly converted to Christianity after calling upon the God of his wife Clotilde at the Battle of Tolbiac.
In 750, the last Merovingian king of the Franks, Childeric III, was deposed by Pepin the Short, the father of this other Frankish king who was crowned by Leo III as the first Holy Roman Emperor.
Battle of Soissons (“swah-SAWN”)
Clovis I [or Clodovechus]
Charlemagne [or Charles I or Charles the Great] &lt;WC, European History&gt;
This case arose when David Jerome attempted to forcefully allot Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”) lands in violation of the Medicine Lodge Treaty. For 10 points each:
Name this 1903 Supreme Court case which held that Congress had the authority to unilaterally abrogate treaty obligations with Native American tribes.
The Medicine Lodge Treaty was abrogated by this 1887 law, which aimed to make Native Americans into farmers by distributing reservation lands among individuals, then put the “surplus” land up for public sale.
The Lone Wolf case arose in Indian Territory, which eventually became this US state to which many white settlers came in the 1889 “Land Run.” “Sooners” in this state entered the territory without government permission.
Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock [accept either underlined part]
Dawes Act [or Dawes Severalty Act of 1887 or General Allotment Act]
Oklahoma &lt;CK, American History&gt;
In support of his ally and uncle, King John of England, this monarch invaded France but was decisively defeated by Philip II Augustus at the Battle of Bouvines (“boo-VEEN”). For 10 points each:
Name this Holy Roman Emperor who struggled for control over the Holy Roman Empire with Frederick II Hohenstaufen (“HO-en-shtow-fin”). He was deposed following his defeat at the Battle of Bouvines.
Otto IV was the only Holy Roman Emperor from this dynasty. This dynasty gave its name to an Italian political faction that supported the pope and opposed the Ghibellines, who supported the emperor.
Otto IV was the son of a duke of Bavaria with this name, called “the Lion.” The fourth Holy Roman Emperor with this name started the lay investiture controversy and undertook the Walk to Canossa.
Otto IV [or Otto of Brunswick]
Welf [or Guelfs or Guelphs]
Henry [accept Henry the Lion or Henry IV] &lt;WC, European History&gt;
This leader’s ideology was based on six tenets he called “arrows,” including state secularism. For 10 points each:
Name this leader whose attempts to modernize Turkey included the 1925 Hat Law, banning the wearing of the fez, and the closing of Sufi meeting places called tekkes.
Atatürk borrowed the name of his policy of state secularism from this earlier French term. The 1905 Law on the Separation of the Churches and the State forms the basis for the French policy of secularism known by this term.
In 1923, Atatürk’s government negotiated this treaty with the Allied forces occupying Turkey. This treaty overturned the Treaty of Sèvres (“SEV-ruh”), which would have ceded eastern Thrace and part of the Anatolian coast to Greece.
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk [accept either underlined name]
laïcité (“la-ee-see-TAY”) [or laiklik]
Treaty of Lausanne (“lo-ZANN”) &lt;AP, European History&gt;
The Canadian Bill of Rights, which was Canada’s first federal law to protect human rights, was passed during the administration of this prime minister. For 10 points each:
Name this prime minister of Canada who led the Progressive Conservative Party. This prime minister controversially cancelled the Avro Arrow program and accepted Bomarc missiles from the United States.
Diefenbaker was succeeded by this prime minister who had won a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in resolving the Suez Crisis. He instituted Canada’s first universal medicare plan.
Pearson was a leader of this Canadian political party that rivalled the Progressive Conservatives. Other leaders of this party have included Pierre Trudeau and his son, the current prime minister Justin Trudeau.
John Diefenbaker (“DEE-fin-BAY-ker”) [or John George Diefenbaker]
Lester Pearson
Liberal Party of Canada [or Parti Libéral du Canada] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
In the case <em>Wisconsin v. Yoder</em>, the Supreme Court held that the freedom of religion guaranteed by this amendment outweighed the State’s interest in compelling school attendance past eighth grade. For 10 points each:
Name this constitutional amendment that was cited in Engel v. Vitale, which found that instituting a voluntary, non-denominational school prayer violated the Establishment Clause.
This case found that providing state funding to religious schools violated the Establishment Clause by fostering “excessive government entanglement with religion,” giving rise to this case’s namesake “test.”
This case found that students who had worn black armbands to protest the Vietnam War did not lose their First Amendment rights to freedom of speech when they entered school property.
First Amendment
Lemon v. Kurtzman [accept either underlined part; accept Lemon test]
Tinker v. Des Moines Independent School District [accept either underlined part; accept Tinker test] &lt;WC, American History&gt;
A female leader of this group known as Comandante Ramona led this group’s capture of San Cristóbal de las Casas in 1994. For 10 points each:
Name this leftist Mexican guerilla group that controls a large swath of territory in Chiapas (“chee-AHP-us”). This group is named after a general of the Mexican Revolution who issued the agrarian Plan of Ayala (“ah-YAH-la”).
The Zapatistas launched their uprising on the day that this trade agreement came into effect. This agreement eliminated most trade barriers between Mexico, the US, and Canada.
Though this Mexican president agreed to land reform and indigenous autonomy by signing the 1996 San Andrés Accords with the Zapatistas, his government never fully implemented the Accords.
Zapatistas [or Zapatista National Liberation Army or Ejército Zapatista de Liberación Nacional or EZLN]
NAFTA [or North American Free Trade Agreement]
Ernesto Zedillo [or Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de León] &lt;AE, World History&gt;
The “three pedagogues” advised an unpopular ruler during this period who ascended to the throne with the support of Otho, the governor of Lusitania. For 10 points each:
Name this period of upheaval after the death of Nero during which Galba and Otho briefly reigned.
Prior to the Year of the Four Emperors, Galba lent his support to a revolt by this governor of Lugdunensis in Gaul, who commited suicide after being defeated by the governor of Germania Superior, Lucius Verginius Rufus.
This founder of the Flavian dynasty defeated Vitellius to come to power and ended the year of the Four Emperors. This emperor built the Colosseum on top of the ruins of Nero’s Domus Aurea.
Year of the Four Emperors [or AD 69 or 69 CE]
Gaius Julius Vindex
Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Vespasianus] &lt;CK, European History&gt;
During a failed coup attempt against this leader, state television played <em>Swan Lake</em> on continuous loop. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who survived a coup by the hardline “Gang of Eight.” That coup against this leader was opposed by another politician who was photographed on top of a tank in front of Parliament.
Swan Lake was also broadcasted on state television following the death of this other Soviet leader in 1982. This successor of Khrushchev established a namesake doctrine to justify the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia.
Khrushchev once complained to this prima ballerina of the Bolshoi that he saw Swan Lake so many times that the thought of seeing it made him sick. She was famed for her role as Odette-Odile in Swan Lake.
Mikhail Gorbachev [or Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev]
Leonid Brezhnev [or Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev]
Maya Plisetskaya (“plee-SETS-ka-ya”) &lt;AE, European History&gt;
After this law was passed, the federal government initiated the case <em>United States v. Forty Barrels &amp; Twenty Kegs of Coca-Cola</em>, attempting to force Coca-Cola to remove caffeine from its formula. For 10 points each:
Name this consumer protection law that was passed in 1906 after Upton Sinclair exposed the unsanitary conditions of American slaughterhouses in his novel The Jungle.
The Jungle portrayed the meatpacking industry of this city’s stockyard, which processed 18 million head of livestock during its peak year in 1924. Carl Sandburg coined this city’s nickname of “hog butcher for the world.”
This American chemist enforced the law as head of the USDA’s Bureau of Chemistry. He carried out voluntary “poison squad” studies testing the effects of common preservatives like formaldehyde on the human body.
Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 [prompt on partial answers]
Chicago
Harvey Washington Wiley &lt;WC, American History&gt;
This monarch patronized the seaside resort of Brighton, where he built the Indian- and Chinese-inspired Royal Pavilion. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who had built the Royal Pavilion during his time as regent for his insane and possibly porphyria-afflicted father.
The construction of the Royal Pavilion was overseen by this architect, who also laid out Regent’s Park in the borough of Westminster in London.
John Nash also oversaw the conversion of this palace into the British monarchs’ residence in London. During World War II, George VI lived in this palace, despite it receiving nine direct hits from bombs.
George IV [or George Augustus Frederick]
John Nash
Buckingham Palace &lt;AE, European History&gt;
According to legend, this king’s army used a pet monitor lizard to reach a fort atop a steep cliff. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the Maratha (“muh-RAH-tuh”) confederacy who took a title meaning “umbrella-lord.” With the Mughal general Jai (“jay”) Singh, he signed the Treaty of Purandar (“poor-UN-duhr”), which made him a Mughal vassal.
Shivaji agreed to become a vassal of this Mughal emperor, who promptly placed Shivaji under house arrest at his court in Agra. This Mughal emperor reimposed the jizya, which had been previously abolished by Akbar.
Shivaji was renowned for his tolerance towards this minority religion among his citizens. Akbar combined elements of Hinduism and this official religion of the Mughal Empire to develop the Din-i Ilahi.
Shivaji (“shih-VAH-jee”) Bhosle
Aurangzeb [or Alamgir]
Islam [or Muslims] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
This church was founded after Bishop Richard Allen and fellow Black worshippers were pulled off of their knees during a worship service in Philadelphia. For 10 points each:
Name this Black church that was formally established in 1816. Henry McNeal Turner, a minister from this church, advocated Black emigration to Africa after serving in the Civil War as the first Black US Army chaplain.
James H. Cone, a theologian and minister of the AME Church, advocated a “Black” version of this theological movement originating in Latin America that emphasizes the role of the church in advancing social justice.
In a 2011 book, James H. Cone contrasted the “Lynching Tree” with this symbol of Christianity, arguing that the tree keeps this method of Jesus’s execution from becoming “a symbol of abstract, sentimental piety.”
African Methodist Episcopal Church [or AME Church]
liberation theology [accept Black liberation theology]
cross [or crucifixion or crucify or crucified or other word forms] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
Answer the following about the report of the Bergier commission, a panel of historians who investigated the actions of Switzerland before, during, and after World War II, for 10 points each.
The report found that Swiss insurers complied with a German demand that payments to the victims of this pogrom should go to the Nazi state and not the Jews, many of whom had their businesses’ windows smashed.
The report examined the role of the Swiss in purchasing confiscated art that had been given this name by the Nazis. This derogatory name was applied to Cubist and Expressionist works displayed in a namesake exhibition.
The report stated that Swiss participation at a conference on Jewish refugees held in this French town aimed to take in as few refugees as possible. This town also names a treaty that ended the Algerian War of Independence.
Kristallnacht [or Crystal Night or Night of Broken Glass or Reichskristallnacht or Pogromnacht or November Pogrom]
degenerate art [or Entartete Kunst]
Évian (“ayv-YAWN”) [accept the Évian conference or the Évian Accords] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
In 1925, the General Election Law was passed during the reign of this monarch, extending the right to vote to all males over the age of 25. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese emperor whose reign from 1912 to 1926 was a period of political liberalism known as his namesake “democracy.”
During Taishō’s reign, this 1923 natural disaster leveled much of Tokyo, though not Frank Lloyd Wright’s Imperial Hotel. This natural disaster was followed by a massacre of over 6,000 Koreans.
Taishō was succeeded by this emperor, whose reign saw increasing militarism in Japan and the outbreak of World War II. He announced Japan’s surrender in the Jewel Voice Broadcast.
Taishō [or Yoshihito]
Great Kantō earthquake [or Kantō dai-jishin; prompt on earthquake]
Hirohito [or Shōwa] &lt;AE, World History&gt;
If you were a Union general in the Civil War, testifying before the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War was pretty much your worst nightmare. Answer some questions about the Committee, for 10 points each.
The committee was founded after this disastrous 1861 attempt to seize a strategic position on the Potomac. At this battle, Edward Baker became the only US Senator to ever die in combat.
The committee leaked testimony from John C. Frémont to build support for his reappointment after Lincoln sacked him in 1861 for doing this action in Missouri. This action was accomplished nationwide with the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment.
The committee was chaired by Benjamin Wade, who co-sponsored a bill with Henry Davis that would have required a majority of citizens in Confederate states to perform this action before readmitting them into the Union.
Battle of Ball’s Bluff
freeing slaves [or emancipation or emancipating slaves or emancipate slaves; or anything that suggests ending slavery or abolishing slavery; accept involuntary servitude in place of “slaves” or “slavery”]
take a loyalty oath [accept any answer that describes people pledging loyalty or pledging alegiance] &lt;CK, American History&gt;
During this ecumenical council, Leo I sent a letter called his “Tome,” written to Flavian, the Patriarch of Constantinople, in response to the excommunication of Eutyches. For 10 points each:
Name this ecumenical council which declared that Christ had two natures, human and divine, condemning Monophysitism as a heresy. This council caused the separation of the Coptic Orthodox Church.
The Council of Chalcedon was convoked by this Eastern Roman emperor, who stopped the payment of tribute to the Huns. He married Theodosius II’s sister Pulcheria to continue the Theodosian dynasty.
The Council of Chalcedon approved a creed that had been promulgated at this first ecumenical council, which declared that the Son is of one substance, or homoousios (“ho-mo-OO-see-os”), with the Father.
Council of Chalcedon
Marcian [or Flavius Marcianus Augustus]
First Council of Nicaea [accept Nicene Creed; do not accept “Second Council of Nicaea”] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
In this Supreme Court case, Chief Justice John Marshall put forth his principle that “the power to tax involves the power to destroy.” For 10 points each:
Name this Supreme Court case, which found that Congress had authority to charter the Second Bank of the United States, and that a certain state’s taxation of the bank was a form of unconstitutional interference.
This financier served as the president of the Second Bank of the United States. He was attacked in a political cartoon showing him at the center of a multi-headed monster fighting against Andrew Jackson.
Biddle succeeded this politician as president of the Bank of the United States. Later, he advocated Southern secession at the 1850 Nashville Conference, declaring “The Rubicon is passed – the Union is already dissolved.”
McCulloch v. Maryland [prompt on Maryland]
Nicholas Biddle
Langdon Cheves &lt;WC, American History&gt;
This monarch, who was raised in the castle of Guimarães (“ghee-mah-RYE’sh”), was assisted in the capture of Évora by the mercenary Gerald the Fearless. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who won independence for his kingdom from Léon in a campaign that saw him defeat his mother Teresa at the Battle of São Mamede (“muh-MEH-dih”).
Afonso I, the first king of Portugal, seized Santarém from this Islamic dynasty. This dynasty, which was overthrown by the Almohads, also lost the Battle of Ourique (“oh-REEK”) to Afonso I.
The Battle of Ourique and the capture of Santarém was part of this larger campaign by Christian Spanish and Portuguese kingdoms to drive the Muslim Moors out of the Iberian peninsula.
Afonso I [or Afonso Henriques or Afonso the Conqueror; accept Alfonso I of Portugal; prompt on Alfonso I with “Alfonso I of what kingdom?”]
Almoravid Dynasty [or Al-Murabitun]
Reconquista [or Reconquest] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
During the early years of this country’s independence, it experienced intense political rivalries between the Liberal Party based in León and the Conservative Party based in Granada. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose capital, Managua, was designed as a compromise between León and Granada.
In 1854, a civil war in Nicaragua caused the Liberals to invite this American filibuster to become president. He was ousted from office and was ultimately executed by Honduras after trying to take over the Bay Islands.
After Walker’s overthrow, the Conservatives held power until the election of this Liberal politician. During his presidency, US Marines landed in Bluefields after he executed two mercenaries from America.
Nicaragua
William Walker
José Santos Zelaya &lt;AE, World History&gt;
A book written by this scientist inspired Frederic Edwin Church to retrace this scientist’s steps and paint the landscape <em>The Heart of the Andes</em> in 1859. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist who wrote the book Cosmos, which reintroduced that word into the modern vocabulary and sought to provide “A Sketch of a Physical Description of the Universe” in five volumes.
In the background of The Heart of the Andes is this mountain, which Humboldt drew cross-sectionally to show the plants at various altitudes. This Ecuadorian mountain is the farthest point from the Earth’s center.
Humboldt climbed Mount Chimborazo during a scientific expedition to this European nation’s colonies in South America, having received permission to travel freely from this country’s Charles IV.
Alexander von Humboldt
Mount Chimborazo
Spain [or España] &lt;WC, Other&gt;
In the lead-up to this summit, Donald Trump, Enrique Peña Nieto, and Justin Trudeau signed the USMCA treaty, replacing NAFTA. For 10 points each:
Name this summit that saw Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman get sidelined in the “family photo.” During this summit, MBS told Emmanuel Macron, “Don’t worry,” when talking about Yemen and the Khashoggi (“ka-SHOOK-chee”) murder.
The G20 Summit was held in Buenos Aires in this country, which is currently governed by Mauricio Macri, who won election by defeating the Peronist (“per-OWN-ist”) candidate Daniel Scioli.
At the G20 Summit, the EU was represented by Jean-Claude Juncker and this former Polish statesman. As President of the European Council, he warned Britain that it could only have “hard Brexit” or “no Brexit.”
G20 Summit
Argentina
Donald Tusk (“TOOSK”) [or Donald Franciszek Tusk] &lt;JH, Other&gt;
According to Sallust, one of the people targeted by this plot escaped assassination after being warned of it by Fulvia, the mistress of one of his opponents. For 10 points each:
Name this plot by a failed consular candidate to take over Rome in 63 BC. The namesake of this plot was later killed by the forces of Gaius Antonius Hybridus at Pistoria.
This consul and target of the Catiline conspiracy delivered the Catiline Orations to accuse Catiline before the Senate. Later in his life, he delivered a series of Philippics against Mark Antony.
The Catiline conspiracy saw the passage of one of these laws, which declared a state of emergency and allowed consuls like Cicero to take whatever measures deemed necessary to defend the Roman Republic.
Catiline conspiracy [or Catilinarian conspiracy]
Cicero [or Marcus Tullius Cicero]
Senatus consultum ultimum [or ultimate decree of the Senate; or final decree of the Senate; accept act in place of “decree”; accept SCU] &lt;JL, European History&gt;
In 1919, Italian poet Gabriele D’Annunzio (“dah-NOONT-syoh”) led an invasion of this city and appointed himself as this city’s Duce (“DOO-chay”). For 10 points each:
Name this port city where D’Annunzio’s reign came to an end on “Bloody Christmas” in 1920, which saw the Italian military drive out D’Annunzio and his “Regency of the Camaro.”
Fiume was a contested territory between Italy and this neighboring country. This country’s Communist leader, Marshal Tito, rose to power as a leader of the Partisans fighting an Axis invasion of this country.
Fiume was a target of this Italian movement that sought to retake “unredeemed” lands from foreign rule. This movement gave its name to the policy of claiming nearby territories on the basis of shared ethnicity or history.
Fiume (“FYOO-may”) [or Rijeka (“ree-YAY-kuh”)]
Yugoslavia [or Jugoslavija]
irredentism [or irredentist or irredentista] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
This leader, who wrote his country’s national anthem “One Single Night,” played guitar in the band “Tout-à-Coup (“toot-ah-KOO”) Jazz” with his military associates. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who renamed Upper Volta as Burkina Faso. This leader, sometimes called “Africa’s Che Guevara,” planted nearly 10 million trees to mitigate the desertification of the Sahel.
Thomas Sankara fought the Christmas War against this neighboring country over the Agacher Strip. This country, whose capital is Bamako, shares its name with an empire that was ruled by several mansas.
The Liberian warlord Prince Johnson claimed that Thomas Sankara’s assassination in 1987 was orchestrated by this Liberian leader who supported the RUF in the Sierra Leone Civil War in exchange for diamonds.
Thomas Sankara
Mali
Charles Taylor [or Charles Ghankay Taylor] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
After Buenaventura Báez requested the annexation of his country, this president sent Orville Babcock to meet with Báez. For 10 points each:
Name this US president whose failure to annex Santo Domingo became a major political embarrassment. This president’s time in office also saw the Whiskey Ring and Crédit Mobilier scandals.
The actual treaty to annex Santo Domingo was drafted up by this Secretary of State, who also settled the Alabama Claims with the UK and the Virginius Affair with Spain.
The annexation treaty was vigorously opposed by this senator, who had earlier pushed for the establishment of the Freedmen’s Bureau during Reconstruction as chair of the Select Committee on Slavery and Freedom.
Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
Hamilton Fish
Charles Sumner &lt;AE, American History&gt;
William C. Lee was the first commander of this military force, which was sent to Arkansas by President Eisenhower to enforce the integration of Little Rock Central High School. For 10 points each:
Name this US army paratrooper division. While defending Bastogne (“bas-TONE”), the commander of this division, Anthony McAuliffe, replied “Nuts!” when asked to surrender by the Germans.
The defence of Bastogne by the 101st Airborne occurred during this battle from 1944 to 1945, the last major German offensive in World War II. This battle takes its name from the shape of Allied lines caused by the offensive.
The story of the 101st Airborne during World War II was chronicled in Band of Brothers, a book by this historian. This historian wrote Eisenhower’s official biography and a three-volume biography on Nixon.
101st Airborne [or Screaming Eagles]
Battle of the Bulge [or Battle of the Ardennes]
Stephen E. Ambrose [or Stephen Edward Ambrose] &lt;AE, American History&gt;
After some activists for this cause were force-fed while engaging in hunger strikes, Parliament passed the “Cat and Mouse Act” to allow them to be temporarily released from prison. For 10 points each:
Name this cause championed by members of the WSPU like Emily Davison, who died after being trampled by George V’s horse at the Epsom Derby. The Nineteenth Amendment achieved this cause in the United States.
This woman founded the WPSU and led many hunger strikes in support of women’s suffrage, but suspended her activism to support the British government during World War I.
Pankhurst’s militancy was opposed by this other suffragette who founded the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies. She investigated the conditions of British concentration camps during the Boer War.
women’s suffrage [or female suffrage or woman suffrage or women’s voting rights or anything indicating that women have the right to vote; prompt on suffrage or voting rights or other partial answers]
Emmeline Pankhurst [or Emmeline Goulden]
Millicent Fawcett [or Millicent Garrett Fawcett] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
The god Enki was the patron deity of this Sumerian city, which was built near an underground water source called the Apsu. For 10 points each:
Name this Mesopotamian city whose rulers are the first kings mentioned on the Sumerian King List, which is often taken as evidence for this city being the oldest in Sumerian civilization.
Eridu lay a few miles south of this other Sumerian city, which was home to a Great Ziggurat excavated by Sir Leonard Woolley.
Ur and Eridu were settled centuries before this other Mesopotamian city that was ruled by kings like Nebuchadnezzar II and Hammurabi.
Eridu [accept Tell Abu Shahrain]
Ur [or Urim; accept Tell al-Muqayyar; do not accept “Uruk”]
Babylon [or Babil] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
After rejecting Leonid Brezhnev’s advice about keeping NATO out of his country, this leader walked out of the meeting and allegedly had to be reminded to shake Brezhnev’s hand. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who overthrew his cousin Zahir (“zuh-HEER”) Shah, the last king of Afghanistan, in 1973 while Zahir Shah was undergoing eye surgery in Italy. He was overthrown in the Saur (“sor”) Revolution in 1978.
As Afghanistan’s prime minister, Daoud Khan had supported uniting Pashtun peoples across the Durand Line, Afghanistan’s border with this country. This country was established in 1947 by the partition of British India.
Soon after Daoud’s coup, Pakistan’s prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto began training Afghani Islamists like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar (“gool-boo-DEEN HECK-mutt-yar”), forming the basis of these guerilla groups that fought against the 1979 Soviet invasion.
Mohammed Daoud (“dah-OOD”) Khan [or Prince Daoud; prompt on Khan]
Pakistan
mujahideen [or mujahid] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
The day of this event was marked as the “Day of Atonement,” and it was paralleled by a “Day of Absence” for women who were excluded from this event. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which many African-Americans gathered on the National Mall. This October 16, 1995, event was organized Louis Farrakhan, the controversial leader of the Nation of Islam.
The exclusion of women at the march was protested by this African-American feminist, who had been arrested in 1970 for purchasing a shotgun used in an escape attempt by the Soledad Brothers, though she was acquitted.
This woman’s remarks at the march honored her late husband Raymond, who set up a defense fund for the Scottsboro Boys. She ignited the Montgomery bus boycott when she refused to give up her bus seat to a white man.
Million Man March
Angela Davis
Rosa Parks [or Rosa Louise McCauley] &lt;AE, American History&gt;
This kind of cavalry was deployed in units called <em>chorągiew</em> (“ho-RON-g’yeff”) alongside <em>pancerni</em> (“pahn-TSAIR-nee”). For 10 points each:
Name this kind of cavalry, some of whom fought for Poland while wearing armor with wings attached to the back plate that may have made a loud clattering sound as they charged.
Hussars originated as a kind of light cavalry from this kingdom, which elected the general János Hunyadi (“YAH-nohsh HOON-ya-dee”) as “governor” following this kingdom’s defeat by the Ottomans during the Battle of Varna.
Hussars served as light cavalry in this Hungarian military force that was organized by Matthias Corvinus. This professional army carried the Hungarian forces to victory over the Ottomans at the Battle of Breadfield.
hussars [or husaria; or Winged Hussars]
Hungary [or Magyarorszag]
Black Army of Hungary [or Fekete sereg] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
After World War II, the unchecked handing out of construction permits in this city led to the destruction of many of its Art Nouveau buildings, an event that was dubbed the “sack” of this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city in which the Maxi Trial took place. Two of the magistrates who organized the Maxi Trial, Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, were each murdered by car bombs in this city in 1992.
The Maxi Trial prosecuted members of this criminal organization, called the Cosa Nostra by its members. This organization follows the code of omertà, requiring members to never publicly speak out about crimes.
In 1995, an indictment for selling political favors to the Mafia was served to former Italian prime minister Giulio Andreotti, whose time in office saw the kidnapping and assassination of this politician by the Red Brigades.
Palermo [or Palermu]
Mafia [or Sicilian Mafia or mafiosi]
Aldo Moro [or Aldo Romeo Luigi Moro] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
German journalist Jürgen Hinzpeter (“YUR-gun HINTS-pee-tuh”) smuggled out footage of an uprising in this city by hiding his film in an elaborately gift-wrapped cookie jar that he passed off as a wedding gift. For 10 points each:
Name this city where an uprising began on May 18, 1980, after Chun Doo-hwan declared martial law. During that uprising, students at this city’s Chonnam National University were beaten and shot by state troops.
The Gwangju Uprising was a key point in this Asian country’s transition to democracy. This country’s president Kim Dae-jung envisioned a “Sunshine Policy” towards its communist northern neighbor.
This first president of South Korea brutally quashed an uprising on Jeju Island. This man was eventually forced into exile in Hawaii after the success of the April 19 Revolution in 1960.
Gwangju [or Kwangju]
South Korea [or Republic of Korea or ROK; or Daehan Minguk; prompt on Korea; prompt on Hanguk; do not accept “North Korea” or “Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”]
Syngman Rhee [or Rhee Syngman] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
Detractors of this politician called him a “Hebrew with Egyptian principles” for his staunch defense of the legality of slavery. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who was the first self-professed Jew to be elected to the Senate. After the Civil War, he fled to England, became a barrister, and wrote the influential Treatise on the Law of Sale of Personal Property.
This Confederate president, a former Secretary of War under Franklin Pierce, appointed Benjamin as the first Attorney General of the Confederacy.
Benjamin was a senator from this state. Benjamin Butler issued the “Woman Order,” which instructed soldiers to treat women who insulted them as prostitutes, after he and David Farragut captured this state’s largest city.
Judah P. Benjamin [or Judah Philip Benjamin]
Jefferson Davis
Louisiana &lt;AP, American History&gt;
A group of these people known as the Zaporozhian Host based in the lower Dnieper rebelled against Polish control during the Khmelnytsky uprising. For 10 points each:
Name these nomadic people who often fought for Russia in exchange for political autonomy, though under leaders like Yemelyan Pugachev they sometimes revolted against the Russian government.
This Polish king defeated the Zaporozhian Host at the Battle of Beresteczko, but subsequently faced a Russian invasion in support of the Cossacks. The many invasions of Poland during his reign are known as the Deluge.
The Deluge also saw an invasion of Poland by this other country, which had been united with Poland in a personal union under John II’s father Sigismund III.
Cossacks [or Kozacy or Kazaky]
John II Casimir [or John Casimir]
Sweden [or Sverige] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
This city fielded an elite military force of 150 pairs of gay lovers called the Sacred Band. For 10 points each:
Name this city that militarily dominated Greece after it crushed the Spartans at the Battle of Leuctra.
This Theban general introduced the oblique tactics used at Leuctra, though he was later killed while leading Theban forces to victory over the Spartans again at the Battle of Mantinea.
Thebes and its allies were decisively defeated at the Battle of Chaeronea by this commander, who spent his early life as a hostage in Thebes. His military innovations included the development of a long pike called a sarissa.
Thebes
Epaminondas
Philip II of Macedon [or Philip of Macedon; prompt on Philip] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
Some sources claim that this monarch conquered the Mon peoples’ city of Thaton (“tuh-TOHN”) simply because its ruler refused to send him a copy of the Pāli Canon. For 10 points each:
Name this monarch who founded the Pagan (“buh-GAHN”) kingdom in modern-day Myanmar after uniting the Burmese people of the Irrawaddy River valley.
Upon his conversion to Theravada Buddhism, Anawrahta constructed many of these religious structures. The Shwedagon is the most sacred of these towered structures in Myanmar.
Vijayabahu (“vih-jay-uh-BAH-hoo”), a king of this island, gifted Anawrahta a replica of the Buddha’s tooth after Anawrahta sent several monks to restore Buddhist rites. This island was later ruled by the Jaffna kingdom.
Anawrahta (“un-OH-rah-dah”) [or Aniruddha]
pagodas [accept stupas or zedi or phaya; accept Shwedagon Pagoda or Golden Pagoda]
Sri Lanka [or Ceylon] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
In 1910, Virginia Woolf and her friends donned blackface and fake beards, pretending to be “Abyssinian princes” in order to gain access to this ship. For 10 points each:
Name this British battleship that single-handedly obsoleted all previous battleships when it was launched in 1906, in part thanks to its use of steam turbines that made it the fastest battleship in the world.
The Dreadnought was built during a naval arms race between the United Kingdom and this other country. Alfred von Tirpitz oversaw the build-up of this country’s navy under Wilhelm II.
As the First Sea Lord, this British admiral oversaw the design of the HMS Dreadnought. He resigned his post in World War I due to his disagreement with Winston Churchill over plans for the Gallipoli Campaign.
HMS Dreadnought
Germany [or Deutschland]
John Fisher [or John Arbuthnot Fisher; or Jackie Fisher] &lt;JH, European History&gt;
This platform, which was inspired by Herbert Croly’s book <em>The Promise of American Life</em>, was coined in a speech that called the Revolution and the Civil War the two great crises in American history. For 10 points each:
Name this progressive platform that Theodore Roosevelt ran on in the 1912 election. Its measures included the adoption of an eight-hour workday and suffrage for women.
This winner of the 1912 election ran on the competing New Freedom platform, whose measures he enacted as president via the Underwood Tariff and the Clayton Antitrust Act.
This lawyer, who wrote the muckraking collection Other People’s Money and How the Bankers Use It, crafted Wilson’s antitrust agenda. Wilson subsequently appointed him as the first Jewish member of Supreme Court.
New Nationalism
Woodrow Wilson [or Thomas Woodrow Wilson]
Louis Brandeis [or Louis Dembitz Brandeis] &lt;CK, American History&gt;
The CIA’s Operation PBSUCCESS aimed to overthrow this democratically-elected leader, who succeeded Juan José Arévalo. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who passed Decree 900, an agrarian reform law that redistributed unused lands from large plantations to peasants in exchange for government bonds.
Arbenz was the president of this Central American country where the “Ten Years of Spring” took place after the overthrow of Jorge Ubico. Rigoberta Menchú publicized this country’s atrocities against indigenous Mayans.
Ubico allowed this American banana-selling corporation to execute troublesome employees. Under Ubico, this corporation controlled nearly half of Guatemala’s arable land and was exempt from paying taxes.
Jacobo Arbenz [or Jacobo Arbenz Guzmán]
Guatemala
United Fruit Company [or UFC; prompt on Chiquita by asking “what was the predecessor to Chiquita?”] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
According to legend, this emperor was saved by an angel, transformed into marble, and concealed in a grotto near the Golden Gate where he sleeps until he awakes to fight the Turks. For 10 points each:
Name this last Byzantine emperor who was killed in 1453 while fighting against the Ottomans. In reference to the aforementioned legend, he is sometimes called the “Marble King.”
This Ottoman sultan captured Constantinople from Constantine XI. This sultan hired the Hungarian engineer Orban to build him cannons for use in the siege.
In 1480, Mehmed II unsuccessfully attempted to capture this island off of the coast of Anatolia from the Knights Hospitaller. This island was later captured during the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent.
Constantine XI Palaeologus [accept Constantine XII Palaeologus]
Mehmed II [or Mehmed the Conqueror; or Mehmet II; or Mehmet the Conqueror]
Rhodes [or Rhodos] &lt;JH, European History&gt;
After being accidentally left alone aboard a prototype of these vehicles, Jacques Charles (“zhahk sharl”) wrote “Never has a man felt so solitary, so sublime – and so utterly terrified.” For 10 points each:
Name these lighter-than-air vehicles that started a 1780s “mania” after their invention by the Montgolfier brothers. Charles and the Robert (“roh-BAIR”) brothers built the first one of these vehicles to use hydrogen.
During this battle, the French aeronaut Eugène Godard used a balloon for reconnaissance of the opposing Austrian army. The bloodshed at this battle inspired Henri Dunant (“on-REE due-NAWN”) to found the International Red Cross.
Following the Franco-Prussian War, this French statesman escaped Paris by floating over the Germans with a balloon. He established the Third Republic’s Government of National Defense.
balloons [or hot air balloons; or hydrogen balloons]
Battle of Solferino
Léon Gambetta &lt;AP, European History&gt;
Answer the following about the British Empire’s activity in modern-day Argentina before the Falklands War. For 10 points each:
Great Britain agreed to maintain purchases of this commodity from Argentina in the Roca-Runciman Agreement. Argentine gauchos in the Pampas helped produce this commodity on ranches called estancias.
In 1845, Great Britain and France blockaded the Río de la Plata to support José Fructuoso Rivera, a leader of this Uruguayan political party, against the Argentine-supported Manuel Oribe.
This company, founded by Robert Harley, proposed a British capture of Buenos Aires in 1711. A decade later, speculation about this company’s proposal to take over the national debt led to a namesake “bubble.”
beef [or cows or cattle; prompt on meat]
Colorado Party [or Partido Colorado; accept Red Party]
South Sea Company [accept South Sea Bubble] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
Franklin D. Roosevelt frequently mocked this politician’s lisp, stating on one occasion, “if [this politician] says ‘Oh Chwist’ again, I’m going to scream.” For 10 points each:
Name this Tennessean who served as FDR’s Secretary of State. He implemented the Good Neighbor Policy to improve relations with Latin America and drafted the United Nations Charter.
Through Hull initially drafted the UN Charter, the UN was not formally established until a conference held in this US city, which was attended by Hull’s successor Edward Reilly Stettinius, Jr.
FDR said that quote to this Secretary of Labor, the first woman to serve in the Cabinet. After witnessing the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire, she became executive secretary of the Committee of Safety in New York.
Cordell Hull
San Francisco
Frances Perkins [or Fannie Coralie Perkins] &lt;AP, American History&gt;
While conducting a blockade of Charleston, this pirate took Samuel Wragg hostage in an attempt to bargain for medicine. For 10 points each:
Name this pirate, whose ship, the Queen Anne’s Revenge, was discovered in 1996. This pirate supposedly put lit fuses in his beard to intimidate enemies.
Blackbeard was mentored by the pirate Benjamin Hornigold, who started a “pirate republic” based in this city that lasted until the arrival of Woodes Rogers as this city’s governor.
Another pirate based out of Nassau was “Calico Jack” Rackham, whose crew had two female pirates who escaped execution because they were found to be pregnant. Name either of the two women.
Blackbeard [or Edward Teach or Edward Thatch]
Nassau
Anne Bonny OR Mary Read [accept Anne Cormac in place of “Anne Bonny”; accept Mark Read in place of “Mary Read”] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
This event was sparked after a car in the motorcade that carried Rabbi Menachem Schneerson struck two Guyanese-American children, killing one of them, Gavin Cato. For 10 points each:
Name these 1991 New York riots that targeted Hasidic Jews. At their height, Yankel Rosenbaum was stabbed to death by Lemrick Nelson, who was himself stabbed with an ice pick 19 years later.
New York’s first African-American mayor, David Dinkins, was criticized for the ineffective police response to the riots, contributing to his 1993 loss to this Italian-American Republican who remained in office through 2001.
In his campaign, Giuliani used the phrase “defining deviancy down” coined by this sitting US Senator for New York, who publicly disagreed with Dinkins and the NYPD about the motives behind the Crown Heights Riot.
Crown Heights Riots
Rudy Giuliani
Daniel Patrick Moynihan &lt;US History&gt;
A red-painted replica of this structure was built in the commune of Fréjus to serve foreign soldiers. For 10 points each:
Name this building rebuilt in 1907 under French colonial supervision. Many bundles of palm sticks jut out of the walls of this building, whose qibla wall includes three towers, unlike the larger, similar Sankoré University building in the same country.
The Great Mosque of Djenné, like many buildings in arid environments, was built from this material made by shaping mud into bricks and sun-drying them.
The large adobe citadel of Bam in this country was heavily damaged by a 2003 earthquake. This modern-day country is the origin of the four-part charbagh garden design and the home of the Chehel Sotoun pavilion.
Great Mosque of Djenné (“jen-NAY”) [accept masjid in place of “mosque”]
adobe
Iran [or Islamic Republic of Iran] &lt;Other Art (Architecture)&gt;
Adela, a member of this family, became the co-founder of both the Communist Party of Australia and the Australia First Movement after moving there due to her estrangement from her mother. For 10 points each:
Name this family whose matriarch founded the Women’s Social and Political Union, the leading militant suffragist group in the United Kingdom.
Emmeline Pankhurst also became estranged from her daughter Sylvia, who, like Adela, opposed the UK’s involvement in this war. British women first gained the right to vote at the end of this war.
In 1914, Sylvia Pankhurst founded an anti-war paper called the Worker’s one of these things. The 1906 construction of an object with this name helped provoke a South American panic in which Brazil built two of the Minas Geraes (“MEE-nuss zheh-RICE”) class of these objects.
Pankhurst
World War I [or WWI, or the Great War, or the War to End All Wars]
dreadnoughts [or HMS Dreadnought; prompt on ships or battleships] &lt;British/CW History&gt;
Answer the following about the term “Mozarab,” for 10 points each.
The name “Mozarab” was given to Christians who lived under Muslim rule in al-Andalus on this peninsula, which was slowly recovered by Christians during the Reconquista.
The early Catholic Mozarabic Rite is still practiced in this city, where the Visigoths held a series of early church councils. This city is historically known for its high-quality steel, which rivaled that of Damascus.
This cardinal promoted the revival of the Mozarabic Rite in Toledo, producing the earliest printed instructions for them. After becoming Isabella’s personal confessor, he authorized the Alhambra Decree, kicking tens of thousands of Jews out of Spain.
Iberian peninsula [prompt on Hispania]
Toledo
Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros [accept either underlined portion; accept Cardinal Jiménez] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
This leader invoked the Nickle Resolution in an attempt to deny Conrad Black from receiving a peerage, prompting Black to renounce one of his two citizenships. For 10 points each:
Name this politician, who was attacked in an infamous ad asking “Is this a Prime Minister?” that triggered backlash due to perceived criticism of this politician’s facial features caused by Bell’s palsy.
In a hilarious 1995 incident, a prank caller pretended to be Chrétien by phoning this person, who laughed when Chrétien said “merde” or “shit” during the signing of the 1982 Constitution Act. This person referred to the year 1992 as an “annus horribilis.”
Chrétien told this other Prime Minister to “act now, explain later” when he invoked the War Measures Act to end the October Crisis. The son of this popular Liberal Quebecquer is Prime Minister today.
Jean Chrétien (“crate-YAN”)
Queen Elizabeth II [prompt on the Queen or Elizabeth]
Pierre Trudeau [prompt on Trudeau] &lt;British/CW History&gt;
This leader established order among various warring tribes including the Chuds, Slavs, and Krivichi and established his base of power at Holmgard. For 10 points each:
Name this man who is often conflated with a warrior from Dorestad who served Louis the German, since the only other account of him is Nestor’s Primary Chronicle. He names a line of rulers that included Yaroslav the Wise.
The Rurikid dynasty established a federation of Slavic states centered on this city until an invasion by Batu Khan caused its collapse. This city is now the capital of Ukraine.
The “Codex” named for this Southern Ukrainian monastery is the most valuable source on the history of the Southern Rus, as it contains the Primary, Kiev, and Galician-Volhynian chronicles. Mikhail Romanov was hiding in this monastery when he was proclaimed tsar by the Zemsky Sobor.
Rurik [or Riurik; or Rorik; accept Rurikid dynasty]
Kiev [or Kyiv; accept Kievan Rus]
Hypatian Monastery [or Ipatievsky Monastery or Ipatievsky Monasteri; accept Hypatian Codex] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
People of this profession from the Kōga school depleted the supplies of Hara Castle during the Shimabara Rebellion. For 10 points each:
Name these feudal Japanese spies and mercenaries, famed for their stealth. They used concealed blades called shuriken.
A militia called the Ninjas supported president Pascal Lissouba in a late 1990s civil war in this country, which earlier became a one-party Communist state in the 1970s under Marien Ngouabi (“un-GWAH-bee”).
Unauthorized Mongolian workers in this industry are known as “ninjas” because they resemble the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles when carrying their green bowls on their backs. Peter Lalor led an 1854 rebellion of workers in this industry in Ballarat, Australia.
ninjas [or shinobi]
Republic of the Congo [or Congo-Brazzaville; or République du Congo; prompt on Congo; do not accept or prompt on “Democratic Republic of the Congo”]
gold mining [accept word forms; accept gold prospecting or any reasonable answer referring to digging for gold in the ground; prompt on mining or prospecting] &lt;Other History&gt;
This regime passed the Ilbert Bill to allow local judges to try businessmen from abroad; the businessmen lobbied fiercely against the bill to protect their ability to abuse local workers. For 10 points each:
Name this regime. A set of protectionist, statist economic policies referred to as the “License” version of this regime was dismantled beginning in 1991.
India still retains much of the License Raj, such as wheat import duties, which many have unfavorably compared to these unpopular 19th-century British grain tariffs. They were repealed, appropriately, by Robert Peel.
This leader of the Anti-Corn Law League also wrote the essay “How Wars are Got Up in India,” arguing against British military expenditure in India. He signed a free trade agreement with Michel Chevalier of France.
The Raj [accept License Raj; prompt on British rule in India or Crown rule in India by asking “what is the common name of this government?”]
Corn Laws
Richard Cobden [accept Cobden–Chevalier Treaty] &lt;British/CW History&gt;
A mayor of this city, Eugene Schmitz, formed an emergency Committee of Fifty in order to deal with a crisis in it. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was largely destroyed by an earthquake and the fires that ensued in 1906.
Thousands of people living in this part of San Francisco became “paper sons” who gained citizenship when their papers burned during the earthquake. This part of San Francisco was mostly populated by people who first went to Angel Island.
San Francisco’s rebirth from the ashes was marked by a 1915 “Pacific” Exposition celebrating an achievement in this modern-day country. Its President Roberto Chiari broke relations with the US until a 1977 treaty.
San Francisco
(San Francisco’s) Chinatown [or Chinese neighborhood or equivalents]
Panama [accept Panama-Pacific Exposition] (It was the completion of the Panama Canal.) &lt;US History&gt;
Walter Johnson’s <em>River of Dark Dreams</em> examines the political economy of this crop and its ties to the rise of a global capitalist system. For 10 points each:
Name this crop whose “empire” is the subject of a “global history” by Sven Beckert. It was called “king” in the Antebellum South.
This state’s economic reliance on cotton grown with slave labor led to many boycotts by abolitionists. For example, this state’s Fruitlands utopian community banned the wearing of cotton, wearing only canvas.
Most cotton in the US is from the Gossypium hirsutum strain, which is thought to have originated in this country and is named as such. The US aimed to avert a conflict in this country through a conference with the “ABC Powers.”
cotton [accept King Cotton]
Massachusetts [accept any reference to Mass or Massholes]
Mexico [or United Mexican States; accept Mexican cotton] &lt;US History&gt;
A 1906 explosion at Courrières (“koor-YAIR”) claimed the lives of over a thousand miners of this resource. For 10 points each:
Name this fossil fuel. After World War I, France invaded the Ruhr Valley to take advantage of its vast supply of this resource.
This French socialist politician honored the dead miners in his newspaper L’Humanité. This man, who attempted to organize general strikes across Europe to delay the onset of World War I, was assassinated by the appropriately-named Raoul Villain just before the war began.
As Minister of the Interior, this other politician used military force to break up the strikes that followed the Courrières disaster. Earlier, his newspaper published an author’s open letter criticizing Félix Faure (“fay-LEEKS FOR”).
coal [accept lignite, bituminous, or anthracite]
Jean Jaurès (“zhaw-REZ”) [or Auguste Marie Joseph Jean Léon Jaurès]
Georges Clemenceau [or Georges Benjamin Clemenceau] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
Like cuneiform, the writing system of this name made heavy use of heterograms; for example, the word for dog would be written as the equivalent of “K-L-B” but was read as <em>sāg</em>. For 10 points each:
Give the name for the Aramaic-derived script used to write Middle Persian. A man who took this word as his surname banned the use of the chador (“CHUD-er”) cloak.
The unrelated Pallava script, also derived from Aramaic, ultimately gave rise to the writing system of this modern-day country, whose invention is legendarily credited to Ram Khamhaeng (“rahm kahm-HANG”). Kings who ruled territory in this modern day country include Naresuan (“nah-ray-SOO-un”) and Chulalongkorn.
This Mauryan king used the Aramaic-derived Brahmi script to write his rock edicts, which advocated non-violence in the wake of his brutal Kalinga campaign.
Pahlavi script [accept Reza Shah Pahlavi or Pahlavi dynasty]
Kingdom of Thailand [or Ratcha-anachak Thai]
Ashoka the Great [or Ashoka Maurya] &lt;Other History&gt;
The design of the “Celtic” cross used in Ireland was based on high crosses sculpted on this island, which had circles around them. For 10 points each:
Name this island near Britain where Saint Columba founded a mission in the 6th century.
The Synod (“SIN-uhd”) of Whitby rejected the methods of Iona in favor of those of Rome to determine the date of this event. A march on the General Post Office opened a rebellion named for this event.
The two main sources on the Synod of Whitby are the History of Wilfrid and this 8th-century author’s Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
Iona
Easter [or Pascha; accept Easter Rising]
The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede] &lt;British/CW History&gt;
This leader captured a sword belonging to Ernesto de Aguirre at the Battle of Imus, which he kept in subsequent battles since it was made the year he was born. For 10 points each:
Name this revolutionary and first president of the Philippines, who used Magdalo as his nom de guerre.
This ruling colonial power was Aguinaldo’s primary opponent in his early revolutionary years. This country controlled the Philippines before handing it over to the US.
Aguinaldo voluntarily went into exile in this city after receiving eight hundred thousand pesos in the Pact of Biak-na-Bato. Until 1903, Aguinaldo led a government in exile here, often called this city’s namesake “Junta.”
Emilio Aguinaldo
(Kingdom of) Spain [or Reino de España]
Hong Kong [or Heunggong; accept Hong Kong Junta] &lt;Other History&gt;
Answer the following about the arms manufacturing company Bofors, for 10 points each.
The government of Rajiv Gandhi was criticized for accepting millions in kickbacks from Bofors and SEB, the bank that financed it. That bank is run by this family, which includes a diplomat who issued visas to fleeing Hungarians during World War II.
Bofors is now a subsidiary of this company, which was partially responsible for making its country’s air force the world’s fourth-largest during the Cold War. It eventually became part of General Motors.
Bofors was founded in this country and was briefly owned by Alfred Nobel, whose namesake “prizes” are usually awarded in its capital, Stockholm.
Wallenberg family [accept Raoul Wallenberg]
Saab AB [or Svenska Aeroplan AB]
Sweden [or Kingdom of Sweden; or Konungariket Sverige] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
A standard created in this case was applied by the Fourth Circuit court of appeals to rule President Trump’s executive order targeting seven Muslim-majority countries as unconstitutional. For 10 points each:
Name this case that established a test for whether government funding violates the Establishment Clause, which uses a standard of “excessive entanglement.”
The Establishment Clause is found in this amendment to the United States Constitution, which protects the free exercise of religion.
The Lemon Test was also applied in a 2000 case concerning a school district in this city, in which it was ruled that faculty-led prayers before football matches were unconstitutional.
Lemon v. Kurtzman [or Kurtzman v. Lemon]
First Amendment
Santa Fe [accept Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe] &lt;US History&gt;
The long 1937 battle over this city featured the so-called “eight hundred heroes,” who covered a retreat by holding the Sihang warehouse, supplied by the Girl Guide Yang Huimin (“yong hway-meen”). For 10 points each:
Name this city. A decade earlier, it was the site of a horrific Nationalist massacre of Communists during the April 12 Incident, after which it was run by Green Gang gangsters for a decade.
The Battle of Shanghai is sometimes called the “Yangtze” version of this battle along the Volga River, in which Soviets repulsed a German attack at the cost of over a million casualties.
Just after the capture of Shanghai, this US ship built in Shanghai was sunk while it was anchored along the Yangtze. Along with the Allison incident, the sinking of this ship turned US public opinion against Japan.
Shanghai
Battle of Stalingrad
USS Panay [accept USS Panay incident/affair] &lt;Other History&gt;
A style of these objects called a <em>bursa</em> or “purse” became popular in 13th-century Germany. For 10 points each:
Name these religious objects, transparent examples of which are called philatories. “Speaking” varieties of these objects are shaped like body parts.
Reliquaries were made for the separate burial of hearts of holders of this title. Louis XVII, the child of a holder of this title who was executed, had his heart re-buried next to his parents in 2003.
Though many made reliquaries for their body parts or organs, almost every French king from the 10th through 18th centuries was interred in this Gothic church rebuilt by Abbot Suger (“soo-JAIR”) in the 12th century.
reliquary [or reliquary shrine or speaking reliquary; accept châsse; prompt on shrine]
kings of France [accept any answer indicating a French monarch of some kind; prompt on less specific answers such as king or monarch]
Basilica of St. Denis &lt;Religion&gt;
During the First Punic War, the battle of Agrigentum resulted in Roman control of this island, which then became a key source of grain throughout the Republic and Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this large island, the site of the majority of land-based combat during the war. The Romans called it “Trinacria” for its roughly triangular shape and later conquered its city of Syracuse.
This man commanded Carthaginian forces in Sicily during the First Punic War and crushed rebels in the Mercenary War before he died in battle in Iberia. He had his nine-year-old son dip his hands in blood and swear an oath of eternal hatred against Rome.
Hanno the Great lost this 256 BC naval battle off the Sicilian coast to a force led by Marcus Atilius Regulus. Over 100,000 mariners took part on both sides, making it by far the largest naval battle in classical antiquity.
Sicily [or Sicilia]
Hamilcar Barca [or Hamelqart; or reasonable vocalizations of Hmlqrt; prompt on Barca]
Battle of Cape Ecnomus &lt;Old Euro/NE History&gt;
This man split with fellow party members Victor Berger and Morris Hillquit over whether to expel the IWW. For 10 points each:
Name this Socialist Party leader who also disagreed with Hillquit and Berger about the need for electoral success, as he ran for President unsuccessfully five times starting in 1900.
Debs’s 1920 presidential run, his last and most successful, took place despite him undergoing this sort of experience at the time.
Debs may have run in five presidential elections, but this Presbyterian minister and pacifist ran [emphasize] six times for the Socialist Party, starting in 1928. In 1937, he formed the Keep America Out of War Congress.
Eugene Victor Debs
imprisonment [or clear equivalents such as being in jail; prompt on less specific terms such as confinement or detention or detainment]
Norman Thomas &lt;US History&gt;
Hugh Willoughby led an expedition of this group whose entire crew perished, possibly due to carbon monoxide poisoning. For 10 points each:
Name this trading company that evolved from the Company of Merchant Adventurers after the favorable treatment of Richard Chancellor. After the execution of Charles I, Alexis expelled its members from his realm.
This tsar welcomed Chancellor to Russia and granted the Muscovy Company trading privileges. As his nickname may suggest, he was less kind to his citizens, sending in the oprichniki to attack dissenters in Novgorod.
Chancellor landed at this port on the White Sea, which lent its name to the settlement that became Sitka, Alaska. The A-A Line, which marked the end objective of Operation Barbarossa, ran from Astrakhan to this city.
Muscovy Company
Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV Vasilyevich or Ivan Grozny; prompt on Ivan]
Arkhangelsk [or Archangel; accept New Archangel or Novo Arkhangelsk] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
In a 1966 issue of the <em>Times Literary Supplement</em> focusing on “New Ways in History,” E. P. Thompson introduced this three-word term to English-language historiography in an essay of the same name. For 10 points each:
Give the English name for this historiographic approach whose French equivalent was first used in 1932 by Lucien Febvre. Other British employers of this anti-Great Man approach include George Rudé and Richard Cobb.
“History from below” advocate Howard Zinn is best known for writing a textbook titled [this kind of] History of the United States. North Korea and Bangladesh are both this kind of “Republic.”
In 2017, two new episodes of a popular televised People’s History of this country were released. Secret foreign fraternities called “Hunter’s Lodges” backed a December 1837 revolt in this country’s “Lower” portion.
history from below [or histoire vue d’en bas et non d’en haut; do not reveal this answer otherwise but prompt on people’s history]
people’s history [or People’s Republic; or People’s Democratic Republic; accept A People’s History of the United States; prompt on democratic]
Canada &lt;Historio/Archaeo&gt;
This body was elected thanks to popular dissatisfaction with the handling of a wave of thousands of postwar strikes, enabling Republicans to take the House for the first time in 16 years. For 10 points each:
Name this gridlocked legislative body that was used as a whipping boy during the 1948 election. It actually managed to pass 906 bills.
The Do-Nothing Congress overrode Truman’s veto to pass this legislation, which restricted closed shops and required union officers to sign affidavits that they were not Communists.
The Do-Nothing Congress also proposed the 22nd Amendment to impose this restriction on the President, a response to FDR breaking a record. Many libertarians propose restrictions of this type on members of Congress.
Do-Nothing Congress [or 80th United States Congress]
Taft–Hartley Act [or Labor Management Relations Act of 1947]
term limits [or limited to two terms; accept equivalents indicating a restriction on how long a President serves in office] &lt;US History&gt;
Answer the following about ways Western culture permeated the Soviet Union, for 10 points each.
The name of this method of spreading propaganda into the Eastern Bloc is followed by “Free Europe” and “Liberty” in the names of two organizations funded by the CIA.
In 1989, the USSR paid a company that distributed this type of product with enough naval equipment to briefly make it the sixth largest military power. A “white” form of this type of product was specifically made for Soviet marshal Georgy Zhukov.
A Soviet underground movement distributed American and British music through records fashioned out of these items, which enabled the stilyagi counterculture to proliferate.
radio broadcasting [accept Radio Free Europe or Radio Liberty]
soda [accept pop, cola, carbonated drinks and equivalents; accept Coca-Cola or Pepsi; prompt on beverages or drinks]
X-rays [accept roentgenizdat] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
An example of this good called <em>Lignum vitae</em> has been a major export of northern South America since the first Spanish colonization. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of good. The modern-day nation of Brazil is named for a type of this good valued by Portuguese traders.
A valuable type of rosewood, Dalbergia retusa, is named for this Central American country, much of whose wood is now protected by the Bosawás Biosphere Reserve. Its namesake lake is home to an aggressive bull shark.
Historically, Chinese traders referred to this region as Tan Heung Shan, or “Fragrant Sandalwood Hills,” due to its prominence in the wood trade. Foreign investment poured into sugar plantations in this region following the Reciprocity Treaty signed by its “Merry King” in 1875.
wood [or lumber or timber; accept brazilwood]
(Republic of) Nicaragua [accept Nicaraguan Rosewood or Lake Nicaragua]
Hawaii [accept equivalents such as Hawaiian islands] &lt;Other History&gt;
The Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa (“ahm-mee-sah-DOO-kah”) records observations made in this city in the 17th century BC. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose residents may have invented the abacus, as suggested by cuneiform inscriptions. A code of laws was established here by Hammurabi.
Rather than being base-ten, like later numbering systems from Western Asia and Europe, the Babylonian number system had this number as its base.
A number of “astronomical diaries” indicate continual improvement on Babylonian astronomy made under this empire’s rule. Its mathematicians invented a chronology that began in 312 BC, when its founder, who was nicknamed “Nicator,” conquered Babylon.
Babylon [or Babili]
sixty [or 60; accept sexagesimal numbers]
Seleucid Empire [or Arche Seleukeia] &lt;Old Euro/NE History&gt;
Answer the following about the region of Zomia, said to be “ungovernable by design” by anthropologist James C. Scott, for 10 points each.
Zomia corresponds to a large portion of this region’s “massif.” An “Association” of ten nations named for this region founded in 1967 currently has Lee Hsien Loong as its President.
Scott’s work draws on Edmund Leach’s book on the “Political Systems” of the upland regions of this Southeast Asian country, which was led to independence from the British empire with Aung San.
A people within Zomia, appropriately known as the Zomi or Chin, live in this region of Bangladesh. Though 97 percent of its inhabitants are Buddhist, it was placed into majority-Muslim East Pakistan of partition, rather than the Indian state of Assam.
Southeast Asia [accept Southeast Asian Massif or ASEAN or Association of Southeast Asian Nations; prompt on Asia]
Burma [or Myanmar; accept Political Systems of Upland Burma]
Chittagong Hill Tracts &lt;Other History&gt;
Answer the following about segregationists in the Senate, for 10 points each.
The best-known segregationist was probably this South Carolina Senator, who infamously conducted a 24-hour-long filibuster against the Civil Rights Act of 1957. He ran for president on the Dixiecrat party in 1948.
A Senator with this last name led “Massive Resistance” against school integration in Virginia, where his family’s organization dominated state politics. The longest-serving Senator in American history was a man with this last name who represented West Virginia for 50 years.
This Georgian was the engineer of strategies to defeat Civil Rights legislation as the leader of the Senate’s Southern Caucus. This co-author of the Southern Manifesto was a key mentor of Lyndon B. Johnson.
Strom Thurmond
Byrd [Harry Byrd or Robert Byrd]
Richard Russell &lt;US History&gt;
The importance of women called “colonial helpmeets” in this country helped give rise to strong involvement of women in its politics. For 10 points each:
Name this country that was settled mostly by families, rather than single men, due to Edward Wakefield’s influence. It’s the smaller of two countries with a national holiday on April 25 commemorating military service.
About a century after New Zealand granted women the right to vote, this Labour Party leader succeeded Jenny Shipley to become New Zealand’s second woman prime minister. She implemented an emissions trading scheme and state-sponsored investment through Kiwibank during her tenure from 1999 to 2008.
New Zealand suffragette Anne Ward led a branch of the WCTU, an organization created in part to lobby for this policy in the US and other countries. The Volstead Act enforced this policy in the US.
New Zealand [or Aotearoa] (The holiday is Anzac Day.)
Helen Clark
alcohol prohibition [or temperance] &lt;British/CW History&gt;
This likely-Jewish ruler burned the treasury of Debre Damo to the ground, explaining why her name translates to “fire” in Amharic. For 10 points each:
Name this warrior queen who usurped Dil Na’od around 960 AD. The overthrow of her descendants brought Mara Takla Haymanot of the Zagwe dynasty into power.
Dil Na’od was the last negus of this pre-Zagwe empire that, for a while, controlled substantial portions of southern Arabia.
Axum was mostly located in this modern-day country, whose last ruling Solomonic emperor was Haile Selassie.
Gudit [or Yodit; or Esato; or Ga’wa; or Judith]
Axumite Empire [or Kingdom of Aksum]
(Federal Democratic People’s Republic of) Ethiopia [or yeʾĪtiyoṗṗya Fēdēralawī Dēmokirasīyawī Rīpebilīk] &lt;Other History&gt;
Name these US Presidents who were more successful than JFK at surviving assassination attempts, for 10 points each.
While holding the first-ever presidential summit with a Mexican President, Porfirio Díaz, this President narrowly avoided an assassination attempt despite the security hired by his friend John Hays Hammond.
The only two women to attempt to kill a President, Sarah Jane Moore and Lynette Fromme, both tried to kill this man, who encouraged Americans to wear buttons saying “whip inflation now.”
This President said that he felt as strong as a “bull moose” after John Flammang Schrank attempted to kill him, providing the name for the Progressive party he led in 1912.
William Howard Taft
Gerald Ford
Theodore “Teddy” Roosevelt [prompt on Roosevelt] &lt;US History&gt;
Answer the following about the life of Léonard Autié (“oat-YAY”), for 10 points each.
While serving this queen, Autié revolutionized 18th-century fashion by including jewelry and ostrich feathers into hairstyles like the pouf. She did not actually say “Let them eat cake” when dismissing her subjects’ concerns.
Autié also socialized with this mistress of Louis XV, who was the intended recipient of the lavish diamond necklace that later tarnished Marie Antoinette’s reputation. She also commissioned Jean-Honoré Fragonard’s Progress of Love series.
Later, Autié co-founded a successful one of these establishments that operated in the Tuileries (“tweel-REE”). An English example of these establishments burned to the ground in 1613 from stray cannon fire.
Marie Antoinette [or Maria Antonia Josepha Johanna]
Madame du Barry [or Jean Bécu, comtesse du Barry]
a theater [accept Théâtre Feydeau; accept Globe Theatre] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
Examples of these facilities near the Rio Tinto in Spain and Cornwall in England produced most of the exports of their respective areas in Roman times. For 10 points each:
Identify these facilities. One of them located at Laurion provided the material for the coins that Themistocles used to pay for the triremes used at the Battle of Salamis.
This writer’s treatise Ways and Means says that nobody really knows when Laurion was first worked – basically true, since there is evidence of activity there in the Late Neolithic. Along with Plutarch’s Life of Lycurgus, this writer’s works are the fullest extant source on the Spartan constitution.
This ruler was responsible for introducing the gold stater coin to Greece and sent a number of them to Euboea (“yoo-BEE-uh”) to fund anti-Athenian revolts. He organized the League of Corinth into a confederation.
mines [accept any answer referring to a place where mining goes on]
Xenophon
Philip II of Macedon [or Philippos II; prompt on Philip or Philippos or Philip the Great or Philip of Macedon] &lt;Old Euro/NE History&gt;
This person orchestrated the removal of his predecessor, the Duke of Lerma, but himself fell out of favor due to his mishandling of the Reapers’ War in Catalonia. For 10 points each:
Name this count-duke who served as chief minister to Philip IV, who was criticized for excessive spending on foreign wars and the Buen Retiro palace.
An early victory at this city during Olivares’s tenure was one of Spain’s last in the Eighty Years’ War. Justin of Nassau’s capitulation after Ambrogio Spinola’s siege of this city was painted by Diego Velázquez.
John Elliott compared Olivares and this contemporary chief minister in a joint biography. This cardinal sought to establish French hegemony in the Thirty Years’ War as chief minister to Louis XIII.
Gaspar de Guzman, Count-Duke of Olivares [accept either name]
Breda
Cardinal Richelieu [or Armand Jean du Plessis, 1st Duke of Richelieu and Fronsac] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
Nancy Reagan maintained an advisory relationship with a person in this profession named Joan Quigley, who gave such advice as “Ronnie’s ‘evil empire’ attitude has to go.” For 10 points each:
Name this profession. Irish members of this profession who settled in the US include Cyril Fagan.
This President’s wife Florence frequently consulted astrologers, especially the crystal ball reading Madame Marcia, which didn’t stop him from dying in office in 1923.
This First Lady disregarded astrology, preferring to learn about her future by throwing a copy of the I Ching (“ee ching”) against a wall. After her extensive project of restoring the White House’s furniture, she hosted a Valentine’s Day special tour of the building, helping cultivate the administration’s image.
astrologer [or astrology]
Warren (Gamaliel) Harding
Jacqueline “Jackie” Kennedy Onassis [accept either underlined portion] &lt;US History&gt;
Nathaniel Isaacs’s accounts of this leader were used in a military history by Donald Morris in <em>The Washing of the Spears</em>, which profiles his innovations. For 10 points each:
Name this leader, who radically altered his army’s tactics by disfavoring traditional javelin combat and, instead, having troops close with the enemy using the iklwa (“EEK-wah”) spear.
Shaka brought the kingdom of this South African people to prominence. It won the Battle of Isandlwana (“ee-sahn-JWAH-nuh”) against the British in 1879, but was eventually defeated.
The Zulu iklwa was a modified form of the assegai spear also used by many African soldiers under European imperial employment. Those African soldiers were known by this term, derived from an Arabic word for “soldier.”
Shaka [accept, but do NOT otherwise reveal, Shaka Zulu; prompt on, but do NOT otherwise reveal, Zulu]
Zulu Kingdom or Empire
askaris &lt;Other History&gt;
This historian described being forced out of his professorship the University of Haifa after voicing support for the BDS movement in his 2010 book <em>Out of the Frame</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this expatriate Israeli historian who published his controversial book The Ethnic Cleansing of Palestine in 2006.
Pappé and this other thinker collaborated on the 2015 volume On Palestine. This man, who launched his career as a political writer with an essay titled for the “Responsibility of Intellectuals,” discussed the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in books such as The Fateful Triangle.
The forward to Chomsky’s The Fateful Triangle was penned by this Palestinian-American postcolonialist, who analyzed Western cultural representations of the Middle East in his book Orientalism.
Ilan Pappé (“ee-LON pah-PEH”)
Noam Chomsky
Edward Said (“sah-EED”) &lt;Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about piracy in the Indian Ocean, for 10 points each.
A pirate colony called Libertatia was founded on this large island, which was settled by migrants from Indonesia whose descendants comprise the Malagasy people.
For defeating pirate Chen Zuyi, who raided ships entering the Indian Ocean, Zheng He (“jung huh”) was honored with incense in this city. Seized by Portugal in 1511, this city controlled trade through a nearby waterway of the same name.
Tons of this ruler’s treasure was stored on the armed ship Ganj-i-Sawai, which was captured by pirate Henry Avery in an incident that almost dragged the British East India Company into war.
Madagascar
Malacca [accept Strait of Malacca]
Aurangzeb Alamgir [or Muhi ud-Din Muhammad; prompt on Muhammad] &lt;Other History&gt;
Several categories for these documents were created under the 1965 Immigration Act. For 10 points each:
Identify these documents, whose somewhat controversial H1-B type is designed to allow foreign employers to fill specialized occupations.
Today, visa programs generally require that workers be paid this kind of wage, defined as the hourly wage paid to local skilled labor. Paying this kind of wage on all federal contracts was mandated by the Davis–Bacon Act.
This guest worker program, established in 1942, brought many Mexican manual laborers to work on US farms and railroads. Its use declined in the 1960s after participating employers were required to offer the same non-wage benefits to participants as to US workers.
visas [accept H1-B visas]
prevailing wage
Bracero program &lt;US History&gt;
Strasbourg is home to a “barrage” named for this person that embanks the Ill River. For 10 points each:
Name this man who developed the technique of ricochet firing, in which projectiles were counterintuitively launched at lower angles and lower power. The city of Lille (“leel”) is home to one of his many star-shaped designs.
Vauban both designed and broke forts for this French king during the many wars he fought during his 72-year reign, the longest of any monarch in history.
Vauban was responsible for expanding this city’s fortress on the Bock promontory, which was nicknamed the “Gibraltar of the North.” An 1867 “crisis” over the area around this city led to its establishment as a neutral zone.
Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban
Louis XIV [prompt on Sun King or le Roi Soleil]
Luxembourg &lt;European History post-600&gt;
William Fraser aggressively recruited these troops into the British Army following an 1814 to 1816 war in which they fiercely fought British troops. For 10 points each:
Name these soldiers. Though from Nepal, the twenty outstanding regiments of these soldiers were split between the Indian and British armies after the partition of India.
This type of traditional Nepalese knife is a signature weapon of the Gurkhas. A widely-spread myth claims that the characteristic notch below its outward-curving blade was used to catch blood.
This Asian nation’s police force contains an elite force of Gurkhas as specialized guards. Other members of this city-state’s police enforce the harsh laws that lead it to be called “Disneyland with a Death Penalty.”
Gurkhas
kukri [or khukuri]
(Republic of) Singapore &lt;Other History&gt; DO NOT READ TO MARYLAND A, MCGILL B, OR ILLINOIS A
During this event, tens of thousands of seated schoolchildren create various images with colored cards as thousands of gymnasts perform floor routines. For 10 points each:
Name this heavily choreographed set of “mass games” held every summer in the world’s largest stadium, the Rungnado May Day Stadium. It is named after a folk song about two separated lovers.
This country holds the yearly Arirang Festival, which sometimes includes purple and red flowers named after its rulers Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il.
While on a trip to this country’s Bogor Botanical Gardens, Kim Il-sung discovered the purple orchid now named after him. This country originated the short-lived GANEFO competition after being banned by the IOC for barring Taiwan and Israel from the 1962 Asian Games.
Arirang Festival
North Korea [or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; or Choson Minjujuui Inmin Konghwaguk; prompt on Korea; do not accept “South Korea” or “Republic of Korea”]
Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia] &lt;Geography&gt; CAN BE READ TO ANYONE
The earliest modern-day beauty contest was held in this town in 1888. For 10 points each:
Name this town near Liège that lent its name to a common English word. It hosted a conference that invited German delegates to discuss reparations for World War I.
This other spa town was established as the seat of government of a regime headed by Philippe Pétain that collaborated with the Nazis during World War II.
This head of state fled to the spa town of Baden-Baden in response to growing leftist protests in May 1968. Upon his return, he announced an election in which his party, the UDR, gained its country’s first-ever absolute majority in Parliament.
Spa, Belgium
Vichy [or Vichei]
Charles de Gaulle [or Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle] &lt;European History post-600&gt; DO NOT READ TO NORTHWESTERN A, MARYLAND B, OR OKLAHOMA
Both of these political leaders served at the Battle of Spion Kop in the Boer War – one of them as a medic, the other as a courier. For 10 points each:
Name these two leaders, one of whom insulted the other as a “half-naked fakir.”
This other world leader provided the main Western support for the Quit India movement and encouraged Churchill to cave to some of Gandhi’s demands. As President, he sent Lend-Lease aid to Churchill.
Meanwhile, this other Indian activist was organizing an Indian Legion in Germany intended to liberate India during World War II. He also led the Japanese-backed Indian National Army.
Winston Churchill AND Mohandas Gandhi
Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR]
Subhas Chandra Bose
This city’s St. Mary’s Church is a foremost example of Brick Gothic architecture, which spread through northern Europe in the 12th century. For 10 points each:
Name this city that grew in economic importance through the Old Salt Road, which connected it to Lüneberg. Henry the Lion founded this port city and economic center of the Hanseatic League.
The Hanseatic League’s westernmost kontor, or trading post, was the Steelyard in this trading hub on the Thames. Hanseatic merchants rebuilt the structure that lent its name to this city’s ward of Bishopsgate.
Even before the Hanseatic League’s inception, this city on the island of Gotland was a major Baltic trading hub. After capturing this city from the Hansa, the Victual Brothers used it as a base for conducting piracy.
Lübeck
London
Visby
To avoid creating a “peril to national safety,” more than 11,000 members of this occupation were given orders under the terms of the Taft–Hartley Act, but only 1,300 obeyed. For 10 points each:
Name this occupation of thousands of PATCO members who were given a lifetime ban on civil service, which was lifted by Bill Clinton in 1993. Drew Lewis organized a contingency plan to replace them.
This President broke the PATCO strike by firing most of the nation’s air traffic controllers, despite receiving PATCO’s support in the 1980 presidential election the year before.
PATCO formed in 1962 when the federal government began hiring more controllers, two years after a New York City collision between a United plane and a plane from this now-defunct airline acquired by American in 2001.
air traffic controllers [prompt on less specific answers such as government employees; do not accept or prompt on “airline employees” or “airmen” as the controllers were not employed by the airlines themselves]
Ronald Reagan
TWA [or Trans World America]
The Maitland plan was a never-executed British initiative that was intended to liberate this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city where an “open cabildo” held in 1806 deposed Rafael de Sobremonte as Viceroy for failing to adequately resist British invasion attempts.
This period of time names an 1810 revolution in Buenos Aires prompted by another open cabildo. A plaza named for this period of time was the site of many mothers whose children were kidnapped in the Dirty War.
The Maitland Plan called for liberating Buenos Aires and this non-Argentina country, which José de San Martín liberated after the March Over the Andes with the aid of Bernardo O’Higgins.
Buenos Aires
May [or Mayo; accept Plaza de Mayo; do not accept “Cinco de Mayo” or “May 5”]
(Republic of) Chile
This civilization’s revival was led by several kings of Lagash as well as Ur-Nammu of Uruk, who created the world’s oldest legal code. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient urban civilization that Sargon the Great united with the Akkadian cities in the north under a single empire.
Most Sumerian dynasties after the collapse of Akkad came from this foreign group, who invaded Mesopotamia from the northern Zagros Mountains. The victory inscriptions of Ur-Nammu revels in the overthrow of many rulers from these people, whom the Sumerians and Babylonians regarded as barbarians.
Contemporary with the Sumerian resurgence was the growth of this kingdom in modern-day Iran under the Eparti dynasty. This kingdom was often called Susiana, since it had its capital at Susa.
Sumeria
Gutians [or Guteans]
Elamites [or Elama or Haltamti]
Each member of the majority wrote a different opinion for Furman v. Georgia, a 1972 case that placed a moratorium on this practice. For 10 points each:
Name this practice that was re-allowed four years later under Gregg v. Georgia. In the US, it is most common in Texas.
In many legal cases involving the death penalty, its opponents have invoked this US constitutional amendment, which states that “cruel and unusual punishments” shall not be used.
Inmates were permitted to sue for their rights under the Enforcement Act of 1871, which was otherwise mainly used to shut down this organization by arresting its members and suspending their writs of habeas corpus.
capital punishment [or the death penalty; or execution of criminals; or lethal injection]
Eighth Amendment [or Amendment 8]
Ku Klux Klan [or KKK] (The act is more commonly called the Civil Rights Act of 1871.)
Answer the following about the role of women in the Protestant Reformation, for 10 points each.
Marie Dentière wrote in support of extending women’s roles in the church while working in this Swiss city, where John Calvin actively preached.
Dentière denounced the expulsion of John Calvin from Geneva in a letter to this ruler, who supported the humanist circle of the Bishop of Meaux (“mo”). She parodied Boccaccio in the Heptameron, a collection of 72 stories.
Philipp Melanchthon criticized Martin Luther’s marriage to this woman, who gained favor in Wittenberg by converting the abandoned Black Cloister into an inn and a brewery.
Geneva
Marguerite of Navarre [or Marguerite d’Angoulême; accept Margaret in place of “Marguerite”; accept Navarra in place of “Navarre”; prompt on Marguerite]
Katharina von Bora
This kingdom has spiritual and material kings, the former of which is called mujaguzo and is represented by royal drums and the latter of which is given the title of kabaka. For 10 points each:
Name this still-extant kingdom ruled by Ronald Muwenda II and founded in the 14th century by Kato Kintu. Henry Morton Stanley visited its capital at Mengo, found on a hill in today’s Lubaga district.
The British took the name “Uganda” for the territory comprising Buganda and surrounding areas from this Bantu language with heavy Arabic influence. It has been a lingua franca for trade in East Africa for centuries.
Unlike the cattle-based economies of nearby people, Buganda cultivated this crop’s matoke variety as a staple food. Operation PBSUCCESS was carried out primarily to protect the interests of exporters of this crop from the reforms of Jacobo Arbenz.
Buganda [prompt on Uganda]
Swahili [or Kiswahili]
bananas [prompt on fruit]
Investigations revealed that this building could have been fitted with proper cladding for only 5,000 pounds, less than a thousandth of the total cost to refurbish it. For 10 points each:
Identify this residential building in North Kensington where a fire claimed 71 lives in June 2017.
This current leader of the Labour Party proposed that some of the hundreds of nearby unsold houses be used as temporary shelter for survivors of the Grenfell Tower fire.
The Gambian-British Khadija Saye, one of the more recognized casualties of the Grenfell Tower fire and one of its many African victims, had this occupation.
Grenfell Tower
Jeremy Corbyn [or Jeremy Bernard Corbyn]
photographer [prompt on artist] &lt;Current Events&gt;
Answer the following about Habsburgs who met tragic ends within a span of only 25 years, for 10 points each.
The popularity of this wife of Emperor Franz Joseph contributed to Hungarian support of the Habsburg monarchy. She was murdered by Italian anarchist Luigi Lucheni in Geneva in 1898.
The marriage of Elisabeth and Franz Joseph was damaged after their only son, a crown prince of this name, committed suicide with his lover at Mayerling. This is also the name of the first Habsburg king of Germany.
After Rudolf’s suicide, this archduke became heir apparent to the Austro-Hungarian throne. His assassination in Sarajevo in 1914 would lead to World War I.
Elisabeth of Bavaria [or Empress Elisabeth Amalie Eugenie of Austria; accept Sisi]
Rudolf [accept Rudolf I or Rudolf, Crown Prince of Austria]
Franz Ferdinand Karl Ludwig Joseph Maria &lt;European History post-600&gt;
This city was founded by Cossacks headed by Fyodor Shubin and originally was given a name meaning “white grave,” surprisingly not referring to people freezing to death in camps there. For 10 points each:
Name this city where futuristic buildings like the Palace of Peace and Reconciliation were built after it received a new designation in 1998. It recently hosted the 2017 World Exposition, whose theme was “Future Energy.”
Astana replaced Almaty as the capital of this largest Central Asian republic.
Proving that just about anyone can become an authoritarian leader, this ex-steel mill worker and current President of Kazakhstan has led the country for 27 years since its independence.
Astana
(Republic of) Kazakhstan [or Respublika Kazakhstan]
Nursultan Nazarbayev &lt;Other History&gt;
In an attempt to delay the financial downfall of his empire, a man who ruled from this city sold the Crown of Thorns and handed his son to Venetian merchants. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was reconquered by less than a thousand men led by Alexios Strategopoulos, ending the Latin Empire that was established after this city’s 1204 sack during the Fourth Crusade.
The first and last rulers of the Latin Empire shared this name; the former was a Count of Flanders whose reign was cut short by his capture at the 1205 Battle of Adrianople.
After pawning the Crown of Thorns to Venetian merchants, Baldwin II sold it to this contemporary in order to finance his collapsing empire. In a disputation in this ruler’s court, Nicholas Donin defended the Talmud from several Christian theologians.
Constantinople [accept Istanbul or Byzantium]
Baldwin [accept Baldwin I or Baldwin II; accept Baldwin of Flanders]
Louis IX [or Saint Louis] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
Members of this faction relied for political support on disbursements from the Collector of the Port of New York, who organized employees to back its candidates. For 10 points each:
Name this faction of the Republican Party led by Roscoe Conkling whose members opposed civil service reform and favored traditional machine politics.
A man who described himself as “The Stalwart of the Stalwarts,” Charles Guiteau, shot this President, who was succeeded by Chester Arthur after his death.
Charles Guiteau attempted to become an inhabitant of this place, but was rejected multiple times; he then published a theological treatise mostly plagiarized from its founder, who advocated “complex marriage” and a form of communism.
Stalwarts
James A. Garfield
Oneida Community &lt;US History&gt;
An Englishman with this occupation adopted the name Giovanni Acuto and won the Battle of Castagnaro. For 10 points each:
Give this Italian term for members of professional mercenary companies, such as Sir John Hawkwood and Niccolò da Tolentino.
A condottiero named Francesco began this dynasty after Filippo Maria Visconti produced no heir. Leonardo da Vinci was employed by Ludovico, a member of this ruling dynasty of Milan.
John Hawkwood led a mercenary company known by this adjective. After a split following the Battle of Campaldino, this adjective described Guelphs who opposed the papacy and were forced out of Florence as a consequence.
condottieri [or condottiero]
House of Sforza
white [or bianco; or bianca] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
The Tjeker, Denyen, and Lukka are listed among this group, as are the Peleset, believed to be the Biblical Philistines. For 10 points each:
Name this group whose great defeat at the Battle of the Delta is recorded on temple inscriptions at Medinet Habu, the mortuary temple of Ramses III. They’re often blamed for the “Bronze Age Collapse.”
A climatological account for the origin of the “Sea Peoples” might concur with the account of this “father of history,” who claimed that the Tyrrhenians originated in a migration from Lydia in The Histories.
Ancient records tend to imply that the Sea Peoples were not that successful when fighting on sea, such as when a king of this name sailed to Cyprus and smote them in three battles. The first king of this name, a great conqueror, referred to Akhenaten as “my brother” in several of the Amarna letters.
Sea Peoples
Herodotus
Suppiluliuma [or Suppiluliumas] &lt;Old Euro/NE History&gt;
This conflict was precipitated by a major <em>agave</em> boom in which Miguel Barbachano’s order to evacuate Mérida (“MEH-ree-dah”) was ignored because nobody could find any paper to print it on. For 10 points each:
Name this colonial conflict that was sustained for 50 years by Britain’s recognition of Chan Santa Cruz.
The Caste Wars was a clash between European-descended Yucatecos and indigenous populations of this ethnicity. This people built pre-Columbian cities like Copán and Chichén Itzá.
The Yucatec Maya are distinct from this other group of Maya found to the south, primarily in Guatemala. Its members include an activist who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1992, Rigoberta Menchú.
Caste Wars [do not reveal this answer, but accept Maya Caste War]
Mayan people
K’iche’ Maya [or Quiché Maya] &lt;Other History&gt;
The success of this man’s invasion resulted in his primary political opponent dying in Berkeley castle when a hot poker was placed in his anus. For 10 points each:
Name this Marcher Lord who was seized by a parliament at Nottingham and hanged at Tyburn after Henry of Lancaster grew weary of his abuse of power. His wife Joan de Geneville was pardoned by Edward III.
Just after pardoning Joan, Edward III instigated this long conflict with France after claiming that he was the rightful heir to the French throne.
Prior to Mortimer’s invasion, Edward II was defeated at this battle, during which the forces of Robert the Bruce used a schiltrom to hold off assaults by English knights and defended Stirling Castle.
Roger Mortimer, 1st Earl of March [prompt on Mortimer]
Hundred Years’ War
Battle of Bannockburn &lt;British/CW History&gt;
The Treaty of Arras (“ah-ROSS”) ended a feud between two branches of the House of Valois (“vall-WAH”), one named for Orléans (“or-lay-AWN”) and the other after this region. For 10 points each:
Name this duchy, whose wars with France ended with Charles the Bold’s death in the Battle of Nancy (“nawn-SEE”). It lends its name to a variety of red wine.
This predecessor of Philip the Good was killed by the dauphin Charles VII’s men on a bridge during the Armagnac–Burgundian Civil War. Two years before, he had turned down Henry V’s offer to be made ruler of France.
Philip the Good organized this event to promote a planned crusade in response to the Ottoman sack of Constantinople. An allegorical skit was performed at this event, which accomplished nothing except making Philip and his guests drunk.
Burgundy [or Bourgogne; accept Burgundian Wars]
John the Fearless [or John I of Burgundy; or Jean sans Peur]
Feast of the Pheasant [or Banquet du Vœu du Faisan] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
A large shopping center has grown around one of these locations built by Taejo (“teh-jo”) of Joseon (“jo-sun”) called Dongdaemun (“tohng-deh-moon”), one of eight large examples of these in Seoul. For 10 points each:
Identify these locations. In an incident from early Tang dynasty history, the later emperor Taizong ambushed and killed two of his brothers at one of these structures.
The Gate of Divine Might is part of this royal residential complex in Beijing, which was built under the Ming dynasty and housed China’s rulers for five centuries. Today, it is a museum.
The Ming dynasty also built the extremely ornate Gate of China in this city, which the dynasty’s founder Zhu Yuanzhang (“joo y’wen-jong”) chose as his capital and named Yingtian (“ying-t’yen”). This city was known as Jiankang under the Southern Song.
gates [or gateway or yett or port; accept Xuanwu Gate Incident; do not accept or prompt on “arch”]
Forbidden City [or Forbidden Palace; prompt on Palace Museum or palace]
Nanjing [or Nanking] &lt;Other History&gt;
This leader returned to his people’s traditional home at Mount Hope during a war that was followed by an attempt to repair reparations with the Treaty of Casco. For 10 points each:
Name this leader whose head was put on a spike on Burial Hill for twenty years after he was shot by John Alderman, a member of a group of rangers led by Benjamin Church.
The death of John Sassamon, who had tried to warn this colony’s leader Josiah Winslow of an attack, sparked the war with Metacomet. This colony is named for a town founded by the settlers aboard the Mayflower.
This other Rhode Island tribe remained neutral during Metacomet’s War, but were massacred for harboring Wampanoag refugees in the Great Swamp Fight. This tribe had earlier allied with the colonists in the Pequot War, helping to perpetuate the Mystic Massacre.
Metacomet [or King Philip]
Plymouth Colony [or New Plymouth]
Narragansett &lt;US History&gt;
Military officials who ranked above centurions and commanded portions of a legion were designated by this word. For 10 points each:
Give this term that also designates the sacrosanct designated representatives of the plebeians in Republican Rome.
This man took the unprecedented step of forfeiting his patrician heritage to run as tribune of the plebs in 58 BC, and won by promising a free grain dole. Cicero defended this demagogue’s murderer in Pro Milone.
Clodius managed to arrange for the escape of a prince of this name whom Pompey had captured eight years earlier. The prince then rebelled against his father of the same name, an ally of Mithridates VI who brought the kingdom of the Artaxiad house to its greatest extent.
tribune [or tribunus]
Clodius Pulcher
Tigranes [or Tigran] &lt;Old Euro/NE History&gt;
This ruler did what two hundred years of divided Sunni kings couldn’t do and crushed the Assassins, possibly suspecting that they had tried to kill him and his brother Möngke. For 10 points each:
Name this Mongol leader who carried out the 1258 sack of Baghdad and carved a path of destruction west as he laid the foundation for the Ilkhanate.
Hulagu’s expansion was halted at the Battle of Ain Jalut, where he was opposed by Baibars armies of slave soldiers known by this term. Baibars also inaugurated a sultanate led by these soldiers in Egypt.
Mamluks were encouraged to practice furusiyyah (“foo-roo-SEE-yeh”), a discipline that may have mutually influenced this similar contemporary European concept. Geoffroi de Charny (“zhuh-fwah de shar-NEE”) wrote a medieval treatise on this concept.
Hulagu Khan [accept variants such as Hülegü Khan]
mamluks [accept Mamluk Sultanate]
chivalry [accept word forms such as chivalric conduct] &lt;Other History&gt;
Early in the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln fired this man for insubordination when he issued a declaration emancipating all slaves in Missouri. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who was arrested by Stephen Kearney for refusing to give up a military governorship. Earlier, he led a battalion comprising the men who started the Bear Flag Revolt.
Fremont hired this man as a guide during his expeditions along the Oregon Trail. This man, who ordered a forced march of the Mescalero Apaches, lends his name to the capital of Nevada.
The explorations of Jim Bridger helped open up this path, which connected the Oregon Trail to new settlements in Wyoming and Montana. It was closed down in the aftermath of Red Cloud’s War.
John C. Fremont
“Kit” Carson [or Christopher Houston Carson; accept Carson City]
Bozeman Trail &lt;US History&gt;
Name some things about Italian politics between the Risorgimento and the rise of Fascism, for 10 points each.
This prime minister for Victor Emmanuel II managed to gain critical French support for the Risorgimento and often feuded with Garibaldi. He died only three months into his term as first Prime Minister of a United Italy.
Italy’s “Liberal Period” was marked by this practice of empowering moderates to reduce partisanship. Devised by Agostino Depretis and mastered by Giovanni Giolitti, it mainly entailed massive corruption in practice.
Vittorio Orlando was lambasted for only gaining a “mutilated victory” in the negotiations at this conference, since Clemenceau’s advocacy for its “War Guilt” clause and Wilson’s support of self-determination took precedence.
Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour [accept either underlined portion]
trasformismo [or transformism]
Paris Peace Conference [accept Versailles Peace Conference] &lt;European History post-600&gt;
“A way of seeing that was simultaneously not a way of seeing” led to this event according to Nick Pidgeon’s book <em>Man-Made Disasters</em>, a classic text in safety literature. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1986 event that killed school teacher Christa McAuliffe and prompted the formation of the Rogers Commission.
This physicist demonstrated the failure of O-rings in low temperatures by submerging one in a cup of ice water as a member of the Rogers Commission.
This speechwriter quoted a John Magee poem mentioning the “surly bonds of Earth” for Ronald Reagan’s address following the Challenger disaster. She wrote the speech in which George H. W. Bush promised “Read my lips, no new taxes.”
Challenger disaster [accept equivalents mentioning the Space Shuttle Challenger]
Richard Feynman
Peggy Noonan &lt;US History&gt;
Missionaries living in this ruler’s empire were negatively impacted by Clement XI’s bull <em>Ex Illa Die</em>, which forbade them from accommodating ancestor worship in their rites. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler whose foreign policy accomplishments include mediating the Trinh-Nguyen (“trin-win”) civil war and signing the Treaty of Nerchinsk to conclude disputes with Russia.
Emperor Kangxi expelled members of this order as a result of the aforementioned “Chinese rites controversy.” Francis Xavier spread its teachings to India and China.
This organization, which later operated under the auspices of the Canton system, set up a factory in Amoy in 1678 thanks to Kangxi’s policies. Lin Zexu (“dzuh-shoo”) helped spark a war by destroying much of this organization’s property.
Kangxi Emperor [or Emperor Kangxi or Aixin-Jueluo Xuanye; prompt on Aixin]
Jesuit Order
British East India Company [or BEIC; prompt on East India Company] &lt;Other History&gt;
This archeological site was discovered accidentally by the 18-year-old Marcel Ravidat and his three friends. For 10 points each:
Name this archaeological site in France that features sections called Hall of the Bulls, the Passageway, and the Chamber of the Felines, which contain some of its hundreds of Palaeolithic paintings.
Henri Breuil (“on-REE BRUH-ee”) suggested that Lascaux paintings were part of a Paleolithic “magic” to increase the gain from this activity. With “gathering,” it names a form of foraging-based social organization.
The four most prominent paintings in the Lascaux Caves are generally thought to depict this now-extinct animal species, whose last surviving member died in 1627 in Poland.
Lascaux (“lass-KOH”) Caves [or Grotte de Lascaux]
hunting [accept hunting magic or hunting and gathering; or hunter-gatherer]
aurochs [or aurochsen; or urus; or ure; or Bos primogenius; prompt on Bos] &lt;Historio/Archaeo&gt;
Under this man’s regime, Sir Humphrey Gibbs and Sir Hugh Beadle continued to toast the Queen at black-tie dinners, despite their phone-lines and electricity being cut. For 10 points each:
Name this Prime Minister of Rhodesia from 1964 to 1979, who enacted the Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965.
This earlier Rhodesian Prime Minister, who called himself “50% Jewish, 50% Afrikaner and 100% British”, strongly opposed UDI. While he was in office, the Central African Federation collapsed.
This British Labour Prime Minister inadvertently set the UDI into motion when in 1965 he ruled out sending British troops into Rhodesia. His namesake “doctrine” prevents intelligence services from tapping MPs’ phones.
Ian Smith
Roy Welensky
Harold Wilson &lt;JK&gt;
Most of this case’s charges were for violating codes of “straight killing,” perhaps necessitated by birds grouping at one end of the coop. For 10 points each:
This 1935 Supreme Court case, which unanimously struck down the National Industrial Recovery Act, became known as “Black Monday.”
“Black Monday” was seen by some as a mortal blow to this series of programs and reforms create by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in response to the Great Depression.
This alleged event is widely credited with averting Roosevelt’s scheme to pack the court after Schechter Poultry. Felix Frankfurter objected to the idea that a man as principled as Owen Roberts would act so venally.
A.L.A. Schechter Poultry Corporation v. U.S. [or the “sick chicken” case]
the New Deal
the “switch in time that saved nine” [accept descriptions like Owen Roberts reversing judicial philosophies, suddenly becoming pro-FDR/New Deal, or voting with the majority/casting the deciding vote in West Coast Hotel Co v. Parrish] &lt;LC&gt;
For 10 points each, name some retirees from the House of Lords:
This former Chief Executive of Tesco and Chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board retired as a peer on the 22nd of December, perhaps to concentrate on his current rôle of President of Marylebone Cricket Club.
The former intelligence worker at Bletchley Park, who later worked as Mayor of Cambridge and Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, retired from the House on the 24th of October, the day after she turned 95.
This man retired from his peerage in the House of Lords to take up a seat in the House of Commons, but not before becoming the most recent British Prime Minister to sit in the House of Lords, in office from 1963-1964.
The Lord Maclaurin of Knebworth [or Ian Maclaurin, Baron Maclaurin of Knebworth]
The Baroness Trumpington [or Jean Barker; or Jean Campbell-Harris]
Alec Douglas-Home [or The Lord Douglas-Home] &lt;HO&gt;
Henry IV would often get in the festive spirit at this royal residence where he once entertained Manuel II Palaiologos, the only Byzantine emperor to visit Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this palace where Cardinal Wolsey took his oath of office on Christmas Eve 1515. The royal family largely neglected this palace after Henry VIII’s affections turned to Hampton Court.
According to Elias Ashmole, Joan of Kent became indecent while dancing at Eltham Palace, inspiring Edward III to establish this order. After aiding Joan, Edward proclaimed its motto, “honi soit qui mal y pense.”
The Palace was given an art deco refurbishment by this family, who owned a lemur named Mah-Jongg. The older brother of its owner is perhaps better known for establishing a prominent institute of art in London.
Eltham Palace
the Order of the Garter
Courtauld &lt;LC&gt;
Flinders Petrie claimed a cartouche found at this site showed links to Ancient Egypt, but the object was found to be a forgery. For 10 points each:
Name this archaeological site. The most notable artifacts from here are carved soapstone birds, which are now a national emblem. The Mutapa kingdom was its builders’ successor state.
While its construction is normally attributed to the Shona, this other African ethnic group also claim to have built Great Zimbabwe. This ethnic group’s adamant belief in a Jewish heritage has not been proven or disproven.
Another monumental African structure is Sungbo’s Eredo, a structure of this kind. The construction of another particularly large structure of this kind was started in earnest by Qin Shi Huangdi.
Great Zimbabwe
the Lemba people
a wall [accept obvious equivalents]
NOTE TO PLAYERS: POSITION AND RULER SERVED REQUIRED One holder of this position to this ruler suppressed riots known as the “Flour War” and was removed over opposition to his attempted abolition of the corvée and guilds in the Six Edicts. For 10 points each:
Name this position, held by Anne Robert Jacques Turgot for this ruler. Public attacks on Charles Alexandre de Calonne, a holder of this position for this ruler, led to the banishment of its best-known holder, Jacques Necker.
After his return from exile, Jacques Necker accepted the Assembly of Vizille’s call to convoke a general meeting of the three orders of French society denoted by this term. The “third” one quickly got ejected.
The Assembly of Vizille met after this event, named for the improvised response of citizens of Grenoble to troops sent to shut down the parlements by de Calonne’s successor, the Cardinal de Brienne.
Finance Minister to Louis XVI [for the first part, accept any answer that gets across the idea of someone in charge of the economy, including Controller-General, Comptroller-General, or Contrôleur-Général des finances; do not accept or prompt on “Chief Minister,” as neither de Calonne nor Turgot ever held that title]
the Estates [or les États; also accept the Estates-General/États-Généraux]
The Day of the Tiles [or La Journée des Tuiles] &lt;JG&gt;
The British Empire liked putting people in boxes on forms to make the admin easier. For 10 points each:
This country, the largest part of the old British Raj, has retained much of its colonial-era bureaucracy to help it deal with its multitude of ethnic groups and population of 1.2 billion.
One category of person of particular import under India’s bureaucracy is this, a term used to describe the indigenous tribes that inhabit the region, and which are often afforded special legal protection as scheduled tribes.
Adivasis are found all over India, but are particularly concentrated in this group of border states in the north-east, whose name can also be found applied to a tube station on the Victoria Line.
India
Adivasi
Seven Sisters &lt;SC&gt;
The popular third king of Saudi Arabia had this name and decisively abolished slavery in the country, but was assassinated by his nephew, also of this given name. For 10 points each:
Give this name also held by the first and last Hashemite kings of Iraq. The former successfully petitioned the Cairo Conference to be given control over Iraq with the help of Gertrude Bell and T.E. Lawrence.
Faiṣal II of Iraq was overthrown and killed in the 14 July Revolution by this autocrat who enacted several key land and women’s rights reforms. Ṣaddām Ḥussein allegedly personally screwed up an assassination plot on him.
Qāsim was himself overthrown and killed in the 1963 Ramadan Revolution by his former coup compatriot ‘Abd al-Salām ‘Ārif and members of this party, which Ṣaddām Ḥussein would eventually come to lead.
Faiṣal
‘Abd al-Karīm Qāsim
the Arab Socialist Ba‘ath Party [or Ḥizb al-Ba‘ath al-‘Arabī al-’Ishtirākī; also accept Anglicized word forms like Ba‘athist or translations along the lines of “Renaissance” or “Resurrection Party”] &lt;JG&gt;
David Dunbar was responsible for prosecuting many people in this industry, who in the colonial US were exempt from taxes as long as they pledged to keep their buildings going for the town use. For 10 points each:
Name this industry, which was from 1722 prohibited from processing material bearing the King’s Broad Arrow. Workers in this industry with an exaggerated startle reflex were called the “Jumping Frenchmen of Maine.”
Fines levied for the milling of illegal logs led to the 1772 Pine Tree Riot in what is now this state. The Russo-Japanese war ended with a treaty signed in this state’s city of Portsmouth.
A pine tree on a white background appeared with the motto “An Appeal to Heaven” on one of these objects carried by forces during the American Revolutionary War. Another bore the motto “don’t tread on me.”
the lumber industry [or timber or wood or anything like that]
New Hampshire
Flags [accept standards; accept banners; accept pennants; accept burgees] &lt;HO&gt;
A Half-Uncial derived minuscule named for this ruler became the standard book script of the central Middle Ages, and was used to produce texts such as the Godescalc Evangelistary. For ten points each:
Name this king of the Franks, a son of Pepin the Short, who was crowned Emperor by Pope Leo III in 800.
Caroline Minuscule was developed across a number of centres in Francia, but of particular importance was this monastery in Picardy. Famed for its scriptorium, this monastery also developed the earlier ‘a-b’ script.
Use of Caroline Minuscule was promoted in documents such as the Epistola de Litteris Colendis, authored by this Abbot of Tours. Einhard described this scholar from York as “the most learned man anywhere to be found.”
Charlemagne
Corbie
Alcuin &lt;Tom&gt;
This report came from a German spa town in the Rheinland, but had international consequences. For 10 points each:
Name this 1870 message from the Prussian King back to Berlin. A highly edited version of it was released in a successful attempt to incite the French public to war over a slight to their ambassador.
The Ems Dispatch was sent to this Prussian statesman, known as the architect of the German Empire and nicknamed the Iron Chancellor.
This man reignited tensions with Germany with his hawkish response to the Guillaume Schnaebelé affair. Called “Général Revanche,” this royalist was a huge threat to the stability of the Third Republic until his suicide.
the Ems Dispatch [or the Ems Telegram]
Otto von Bismarck
Georges Ernest Jean-Marie Boulanger &lt;JS&gt;
In 1905, J.W. Salmond argued that the ghosts of these legal instruments “still haunt the precincts” of British law, and American judicial review heavily involves ones of “mandamus” and “certiorari.” For 10 points each:
Name these written orders from an administrative or judicial body, which dominated the procedure of English common law until the abolition of forms of action in the 1830s.
Responsibility for issuing writs originally lay with this English Officer of State, although that power was curtailed by the Provisions of Oxford. This office was amalgamated with Secretary of State for Justice in 2007.
The wide-ranging 1998 legal reforms named for this Master of the Rolls renamed many prerogative writs and created the modern British Civil Procedure Rules. He also led the enquiry into the 1990 Strangeways prison riot.
Writs
Lord Chancellor
Lord Woolf [or Harry Kenneth Woolf; Baron Woolf] &lt;ADG&gt;
These programs aimed at compulsory collectivisation of the peasantry as a solution to food shortages and rising prices in a “revolution from above,” and the White Sea Canal became a symbol of the first one. For 10 points each:
This name is given to Joseph Stalin’s proposals for developing the Soviet economy. The first ran from 1928 to 1932 with the hope of promoting “Socialism in One Country,” but resulted in widespread, devastating famines.
Stalin devised the first Five-Year Plan to replace this program of limited free markets instituted by Lenin and championed by Nikolai Bukharin. It enacted the prodnalog agricultural tax and resulted in the Scissors Crisis.
During the second five-year plan, this man inspired a propaganda cult after allegedly mining 102 tons of coal in under 6 hours. His model and namesake “movement” was used to offer bonuses to exemplary workers.
Five-Year Plans for the Development of the National Economy of the Soviet Union [or Pyatiletki]
the New Economic Policy [or Novaya Ekonomicheskaya Politika]
Aleksei Grigoryevich Stakhanov [also accept the Stakhanovite Movement] &lt;LC&gt;
These peoples’ sites of Issyk and Kul-Oba contained massive amounts of gold, some of which was decorated with motifs of animals fighting fantastic beasts in their distinctive “animal-style” art. For 10 points each:
Name these pointy hat-wearing horsemen, who popularized the composite bow and dominated the steppes north of the Black Sea. These targets of several Achaemenid campaigns left behind tombs called kurgans.
Much of our information on the Scythians, including details about their archaeologically-verified fondness for cannabis, comes from this rather unreliable Greek historian known as the “Father of History.”
This key Scythian archaeological site, a burial in the Altai mountains, produced such discoveries as mummies of a heavily-tattooed chief and the “Siberian Ice Maiden”, as well as what is likely the world’s oldest pile carpet.
the Scythians [also accept the Sakae, Massagetae, Iskuzai, or Skolotai; also accept Samatians, Alans, or Ossetians even though there is significant debate over whether those later Iranic “Scythians” are the same Scythians as the earlier ones]
Herodotus
Pazyryk &lt;SC&gt;
<em>Bombs, Bullets, and Business as Usual</em> subtitled a 2011 documentary by Richard Weller about a particularly detonation-prone one of these places. For 10 points each:
A man using the pseudonym “Roy Walsh” placed a device made from an egg timer and a VCR in a bathroom in one of these places, but the person he intended to assassinate happened to be up late writing a speech.
Provisional IRA member Patrick Magee targeted Margaret Thatcher in the Brighton Hotel Bombing during this conflict. It is typically said to have ended with the Good Friday Agreement of 1998.
Journalists covering the Troubles often stayed at this “Hardboard Hotel” on Great Victoria Street, Belfast, which has suffered 36 bomb attacks since it opened in 1971. It claims to be the “most bombed hotel in Europe.”
hotels
The Troubles [accept the Northern Ireland conflict]
the Europa Hotel &lt;LC&gt;
In all the excitement of Brexit, most English people forgot to consider one important issue. For 10 points each:
This construct was one of the EU’s three key “divorce issues” along with a financial settlement and the rights of EU citizens. This 500km-long construct runs from Lough Foyle to Carlingford and has allowed free passage of people since 1923.
The best-case scenario would see the institution of a customs border, with minimal physical obstructions. The gold standard for that model is the border between these two countries, visited by Wills and Kate earlier this month.
A far more extreme option is Nigel Farage’s idea for an “Irexit”. Farage called for a “public debate” on the issue – then refused to debate this Fine Gael politician and Vice President of the European Parliament when she offered.
The Irish border
Norway and Sweden
Mairead McGuinness [prompt on McGuinness] &lt;EJW&gt;
This event was intended to force Hector Campora from office, and although the official death toll was 13, the real figure is believed to be much higher. For 10 points each:
Name this June 1973 event in which a crowd of left-wing youths, as well as members of the Montoneros, were shot dead by snipers at an international airport.
The Ezeiza massacre took place shortly after this man arrived at the airport, after 19 years of exile in Spain. This Argentine general and President was supported by his wife Evita during his first term.
Soon after the Ezeiza massacre, this period of state terrorism began, in which the Argentine government openly killed or “disappeared” around 30,000 left-wing guerrillas, students and journalists.
the Ezeiza massacre
Juan Peron
the Dirty War [or La Guerra Sucia; prompt on Operation Condor] &lt;JK&gt;
Answer some questions about Native American speech-making, for 10 points each:
This Suquamish chief compared how his people and white Americans treat their dead and warned that “the dead are not powerless.” He became the namesake of Washington state’s largest city.
According to C.E.S Woods, this Nez Perce chief declared “I am tired; my heart is sick and sad. From where the sun now stands, I will fight no more, forever” after failing to escape from Nelson Miles’ forces into Canada.
This chief’s “lament,” in which he declares “who is there to mourn for [him]? Not one,” was widely circulated in colonial press after Lord Dunmore’s War, which he helped trigger after settlers murdered much of his family.
Chief Seattle
Chief Joseph [or Hinmatóowyalahtqit]
Chief Logan (who was a staunch ally of British settlers until the Yellow Creek Massacre in which settlers killed much of his family for absolutely no good reason) &lt;JG&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions on early medieval British leaders, not all of whom were English:
This late-9th century king of Wessex is the only English king to be dignified with the epithet ‘the Great’ for his success in stemming the Viking onslaught and only giving them half the country as the Danelaw.
This 10th century ruler created the kingdom of Deheubarth [deh-HAY-barth] and leveraged his submission to Athelstan to unite most of modern Wales. His namesake law code was the basis of Welsh law before the Edwardian conquest.
The terms “Scots” and “Scotland” were first applied to the region during the reign of Hywel Dda’s contemporary Constantine II, the first ruler to be called “King of Alba” rather than “King of” these people.
Alfred the Great [also accept “the wise elf”]
Hywel Dda [accept Hywel the Good or Hywel ap Cadell but do not accept or prompt on “Hywel ap Rhodri Molwynog/Hywel, Son of Rhodri the Bald and Grey”]
the Picts [also accept the toponyms Pictland or Pictavia; prompt on Caledonians as it’s unclear how much the later term “Picti” overlaps with earlier Roman authors’ use of “Caledonii”] &lt;SC&gt;
According to Gregory Bar Hebraeus, Mu‘āwiyah I sold this object to “a certain Jew from Emesa” after it lay on its side for 800 years after a 226 B.C.E. earthquake. For 10 points each:
Name this wonder of the ancient world funded by the sale of siege equipment used in a siege that earned one of the Diadochi the epithet “Sotēr” or “Savior.” It depicted a certain island’s patron god, Helios.
This founder of a namesake dynasty was dubbed “Sotēr” by the Rhodians for helping to fend off the besieging Antigonids. Perdiccas was killed after a failed attack on this sometimes-ally, sometimes-enemy of Seleucus I.
Ptolemy I triggered the first War of the Diadochi by stealing this object to bolster his legitimacy, forcing Perdiccas to attack Egypt. This object was en route to join other such objects at modern Vergina when intercepted.
the Colossus of Rhodes
Ptolemy I Sotēr [also accept Ptolemaios Lagides or Ptolemy, Son of Lagus; prompt on Ptolemy or Ptolemaios]
the body of Alexander the Great [accept equivalent descriptions; also accept Alexander III] &lt;SC&gt;
In 1929, a stone cross was used to commemorate those who died in this battle, believed to have been part of a chapel started by Richard III. For 10 points each:
Identify this battle fought on 29th March 1461 between the Houses of York and Lancaster. Contemporary accounts suggest it to have been the bloodiest battle ever fought in England.
Following the Lancastrian defeat at Towton, this noble woman and her second husband, Richard Woodville, sided closely with the Yorkists. She was later accused of witchcraft by Thomas Wake.
Jacquetta’s daughter, Elizabeth, became Queen consort to this king of England. Having already usurped Henry VI at Towton, he did so again at Tewkesbury in 1471, and reigned until his death in 1483.
Battle of Towton
Jacquetta of Luxembourg, Countess Rivers [accept either underlined part]
Edward IV &lt;LC&gt;
A recent constitutional change in this country allowed its sitting president Juan Hernandez to run for a second term.
Name this Central American country which has just had a controversial election, with the result widely seen as fraudulent.
Analysis of the election data by this weekly newspaper concluded that the sudden swing to Hernandez away from his opponent after counting was paused was unlikely. This outlet features a column on Latin America named ‘Bello’, and a British column called ‘Bagehot’.
Mr Hernandez’s opponent, Salvador Nasralla, became well known in Honduras for being this kind of TV journalist. He has hosted the show ‘5 Deportivo’ for the past 25 years.
Honduras
The Economist
Sports journalist (accept equivalents) &lt;JS&gt;
Answer some questions about two influential women in the medieval Byzantine Empire, for 10 points each:
, This emperor’s daughter Anna, when not running a giant hospital and maybe plotting to depose and replace her brother John II, wrote an important biography of this ruler that describes his instigation of the First Crusade.
This wife of Leo IV became the first woman to officially rule the empire after blinding her son Constantine VI. She called the Second Council of Nicaea and may have plotted to marry her contemporary, Charlemagne.
Through the Second Council of Nicaea, Irene was instrumental in ending the first of these periods, which was started by Leo the Isaurian. During these periods, the Byzantine Empire banned religious images.
Alexios I Komnenos [also accept Alexis I; prompt on partial answer or Alexios/Alexis Komnenos]
Irene Sarantapechaina of Athens [or Basilissa Eirenē]
Byzantine iconoclasms [or eikonomakhiai] &lt;SC&gt;
Hilariously bad responses to hecklers on the Swing Around the Circle tour like “why don’t you hang Thad Stevens and Wendell Phillips?” and “I don’t care about my dignity” were cited in this event. For 10 points each:
Name this event, the first of its kind, that resulted from tensions with Radical Republicans and was ostensibly triggered by the removal of Edwin Stanton as Secretary of War in alleged violation of the Tenure of Office Act.
During Bill Clinton’s impeachment, Clinton infamously argued that whether he committed perjury about his affair with Monica Lewinsky hinged on one’s definition of this word. Exact answer required.
The nakedly partisan Covode Committee found corruption but no grounds for impeaching this president. Lewis Cass resigned from this signatory of the Ostend Manifesto’s cabinet over his “doughface” tendencies.
the Impeachment of President Andrew Johnson [prompt on partial answer]
“is”
James Buchanan, Jr. &lt;JS&gt;
Following his return from a diplomatic mission, Pope John I was imprisoned by this employer of Boethius despite, or perhaps because of, the success of that mission to Byzantine Emperor Justin I. For 10 points each:
Name this Arian founder of an Ostrogothic kingdom based in Ravenna.The ill-fated daughter of this posthumous hero of many works of Middle High German literature, Amalasuntha, ruled after him as regent.
Theodoric the Great supposedly held a banquet in order to personally kill Odoacer, the man who brought about this event by deposing Romulus Augustulus and declaring himself King of Italy in 476 C.E.
The Variae Epistolae by this writer are an important source on Theodoric’s reign. This more pliant replacement of Boethius as magister officiorum founded the Vivarium Monastery and wrote the Institutiones.
Theodoric the Great [also accept Theoderic or Dietrich von Bern, given the literature clue]
the fall of the Western Roman Empire [accept equivalent descriptions; prompt on answers like just Rome or the Roman Empire that fail to specify the Western half]
Flavius Cassius Aurelius Cassiodorus Senator &lt;HO&gt;
Anti-corruption campaigns in Saudi Arabia have recently begun targeting even high level princes For 10 points each
A number of important officials and royals were held in house arrest in this hotel from November to late January. Billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal is one of the detainees in this luxury location.
The impetus for reform has come from this Saudi Crown Prince, who is taking an active role in his country’s politics and foreign policy.
One odd event in recent Saudi politics was the supposed forced resignation of this Lebanese Prime Minister, which was rapidly followed by a retraction and then a rapid trip to France.
Ritz-Carlton Riyadh
Mohammad Bin Salman (Accept MBS)
Saad Hariri &lt;JS&gt;
An architect of this medieval kingdom’s success vowed to never eat fruit or spices until he had unified his nation’s archipelago. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom eventually eclipsed by its core region’s first major Muslim state, the Demak Sultanate. Led at its height by Gajah Mada and Hayam Wuruk, it warred with local powers like the Sunda and Srivijaya.
The Majapahit were based on this island, the centre of resistance movements led by men like Prince Dipanegara, Mohammad Hatta, and Sukarno against a colonial regime based at Batavia.
Raden Wijaya laid the foundations of the Majapahit in 1293 by double-crossing and repulsing an expedition to Java sent by this Mongol ruler, first emperor of the Yuan dynasty, and acquaintance of Marco Polo.
the Majapahit Empire
Java [insanely generously prompt on Indonesia]
Kublai Khan &lt;JS&gt;
This organisation employed the ships <em>Mi Amigo</em> and <em>Ross Revenge</em> in its most famous endeavour, and it is the basis of a 2009 Richard Curtis film starring Philip Seymour Hoffman. For 10 points each:
Name this still-extant pirate radio station founded by Ronan O’Rahilly in 1964. Its infamously broadcast from international waters, initially in competition with Project Atlanta, to circumvent the BBC’s radio monopoly.
When the 1967 Marine Broadcasting Offences Act cracked down on pirate radio, this legislative body attempted to exempt Radio Caroline. Once a year it meets on a hill in St. Johns instead of its dependency’s capital.
In 1881, the Tynwald became the first legislature to give these people a vote, albeit depending on marriage status. Wyoming was the first U.S. state, and New Zealand the first country, to give these people the vote.
Radio Caroline
the High Court of Tynwald [or Ard-whaiyl Tinvaal; prompt on descriptions like the legislature of the Isle of Man for British teams but accept such descriptions outright at non-British mirrors]
women [accept equivalents; the Tynwald extended the vote to unmarried women in 1881] &lt;JK&gt;
In this event, groups led by Jaime [HYE-MAY] Sin and Ricardo Vidal gathered on EDSA to protest an allegedly rigged snap election which took place in 1986. For ten points each:
Name this event which ultimately culminated in the President of the Philippines fleeing to Hawaii.
When Malacanang Palace was stormed, over one thousand pairs of shoes belonging to this figure, the wife of the president, Ferdinand, were discovered.
Following the departure of the Marcos family to Hawaii, this woman became President. Her husband, Benigno is alleged to have been assassinated by the Marcos regime.
People Power Revolution [accept Yello Revolution]
Imelda Marcos
Corazon Aquino &lt;Theo&gt;
O. Nigel Bolland cited the rise of this island nation’s first prime minister as an example of how small-island politics can be dominated by one man's personality. For 10 points each:
Name this island, whose first PM was overthrown by Maurice Bishop’s New JEWEL movement. Bishop was himself the victim of a military coup by Hudson Austin that ostensibly threatened some medical students.
Grenada’s first PM was this labor leader overthrown while addressing the UN in 1979. He maintained a private militia called the “Mongoose Gang” and was accused of rigging the 1970 Miss World competition.
This U.S. president ordered the invasion of Grenada in Operation Urgent Fury after Bishop’s overthrow in 1983. He quipped that he “forgot to duck” after being shot by a guy trying to impress Jodie Foster.
Grenada [or La Grenade]
Eric Gairy (the 1970 Miss World was Grenadan and Gairy was on the judging panel, but that’s as far as the evidence of rigging goes).
Ronald Reagan &lt;HO&gt;
Medieval wars can get confusing, but mainly because the people involved seemed to like having the same name as everyone else involved. Answer some questions about that, for 10 points each:
Castile and Aragon’s “War of the Two Peters” became a theater of this other conflict when Aragon’s Peter supported a French-backed claimant to Castile’s throne, leading the other Peter to call in Edward the Black Prince.
One war of this name was a rebellion by several dukes and bishops with the same name against Holy Roman Emperor Otto II. The winner of a better known conflict of this name declared that “Paris is well worth a mass”.
A “Great” king of Pamplona of this name’s posthumous division of his lands led to a war between Jimenez kings of Castile, Navarre, and Aragon, all of this name, that was resolved when Aragon’s one got tossed off a cliff.
The Hundred Years’ War [prompt on the First Castilian Civil War and equivalents]
War of the Three Henrys
Sancho [also accept War of the Three Sanchos] &lt;JG&gt;
The mother of a ruler of this city berated him for “crying like a woman for what you could not defend like a man.” For 10 points each:
Name this southern Spanish city, famous for the Alhambra Palace. Its conquest from the Nasrid dynasty by Ferdinand and Isabella marks the end of the Reconquista.
This last Nasrid ruler of Granada surrendered the city peacefully to Ferdinand and Isabella after a Castilian siege. His last look at the city, to exactly zero sympathy from his mother, has been called “The Moor’s Last Sigh.”
Unlike most other smaller Muslim principalities after the fall of the Spanish Umayyads, the Nasrid Kingdom of Granada is usually referred to as an “emirate” and not as one of these states. This term literally means “faction.”
Granada
Boabdil [or Muhammad XII]
Ṭā’ifa(s) [pl. Ṭawā’if; also accept “Party Kings”] &lt;SC&gt;
This painter depicted a moonlit sea formed from the wreckage of German aircraft in <em>Totes Meer</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this artist, who often depicted bare tree trunks standing in churned up battlefields, such as in Wire, The Menin Road, and We Are Making a New World.
This artist showed a battalion of Canadian troops marching through a similarly battle-scarred landscape in The Conquerors, and depicted a platoon of British troops in The Kensingtons at Laventie.
Both Nash and Kennington were commissioned by the Department of Information to serve as official artists during this war. William Orpen's Dead Germans in a Trench was also created during this war.
Paul Nash
Eric Kennington
The First World War [or the Great War; or World War One] &lt;HO&gt;
For your ultra-hardcore Hugh Oxlade British historiography bonus, name some revolutions which may or may not have occurred in Britain in the 17th century. For 10 points each:
Eric Kerridge argued that this revolution was over by 1673, although this has been challenged by Robert Allen and Mark Overton. The introduction of turnips to fallow fields is often seen as a crucial aspect of this revolution.
P.G.M. Dickson, Henry Roseveare, and Douglass North and Barry Weingast have investigated this revolution, seemingly set in by the Glorious Revolution. Its innovations included the 1693 tontine and limited liability set-ups.
Jan de Vries used Akira Hayami’s concept of this revolution to explain consumer demand in Europe from 1650. Craig Muldrew linked food and energy to the “creation” of its namesake shift in work and leisure patterns.
The British/Second Agricultural Revolution
The Financial Revolution
The Industrious Revolution [accept industriousness given the title of Muldrew’s study; prompt on descriptive answers like people worked more and/or played less] &lt;HO&gt;
After this chain ran an immigration sting on its own workers, activists released thousands of cockroaches and locusts into two of their branches in protest. For 10 points each:
Name this British chain. Tom Byng founded this restaurant chain in 2007, inspired by the burgers at the Silver Top diner in Rhode Island – though contrary to popular belief, it is not actually named after a poet.
Byron have recently sought help from KPMG to carry out one of these restructuring plans to save the business. Toys R Us and Jamie’s Italian have also used these plans, which let insolvent firms negotiate solutions with creditors.
One of the creditors to back the CVA for Toys R Us was this statutory fund chaired by Alan Rubenstein. This organisation is currently poised to take on DB schemes for the collapsed construction company Carillion.
Byron Hamburgers
company voluntary arrangement [or CVA]
Pension Protection Fund [or PPF] &lt;EJW&gt;
Under this system, the Mughal empire gave many nobles and officials the rights to a <em>jagir</em>, or revenue for land, rather than the land itself. For 10 points each:
Give this term which describes both the overarching system of rights to collect money and administer land in Mughal India, introduced in 1572 under the supervision of Raja Todar Mal, and the system’s various ranks.
This Mughal emperor introduced the Mansabdar system. Known as “the Great,” he abolished the jizya tax, enforced sulh-i kul or “total peace” between different religions, and, allegedly, founded his own syncretic faith.
Marshall Hodgson coined the term “gunpowder empire” to describe the Mughals, Ottomans, and this empire. This empire came to power with the help of the Qizilbash and began the conversion of Persia to Shī‘a Islam.
the Mansabdar system
Abu’l Fath Jalal-ud-din Muhammad Akbar [accept either underlined portion]
the Safavid Empire &lt;JS&gt;
Answer some questions about attempts to restrict legal recognition of same-sex marriages prior to <em>Obergefell v. Hodges</em>, For 10 points each:
An attempt by lawmakers to “protect” the family from legal same-sex marriages was this 1996 act, signed into law by President Clinton. It notably let states refuse to recognize same-sex marriages valid in other states.
DOMA was struck down in this case named for a New York LGBT activist. It ruled DOMA a violation of the Fifth Amendment, but did not explicitly specify the scrutiny level appropriate to same-sex marriage cases.
An earlier move to ban same-sex marriage was Proposition 8, a ballot measure in this US state.
DOMA [or the Defense of Marriage Act]
US v. Windsor
California &lt;JS&gt;
Candidates for this object include ones named for the filmmaker Arne Sucksdorff and for the town of Mockfjärd while its user may be a serial killer called “the Laser Man” or the so-called “33-year-old.” For 10 points each:
Describe this object, which triggered a massive hunt for .357 magnum Smith and Wesson revolvers after it was used to kill a man walking home from a screening of The Mozart Brothers with his wife, Lisbet.
Another beloved assassinated Swede was a member of this family founded by a Napoleonic general. He saved thousands from the Nazis with the White Buses but was killed by the Lehi while mediating Arab-Israeli tensions.
“Prime Evil” Eugene de Kock claims that the Palme assassination retaliated for his vocal opposition to this policy that created “bantustans.” It was ended by F.W. de Klerk and the founder of Spear of the Nation.
the gun used in the Olof Palme assassination [accept any description that include a firearm and the death of Palme]
(Folke) Bernadotte
apartheid [prompt on answers like South African racism] &lt;JG&gt;
Frederick Douglass managed the Haitian Pavilion at an event in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this American city which hosted the World’s Columbian Exposition in 1893. That event is one of two World’s Fairs memorialised on this city’s flag.
The centrepiece of the Columbian Exposition was this amusement ride, whose name has come to apply generically to its imitators. It stood 80 metres tall and took nine minutes to rotate.
The World’s Fair in this city ran along with the Summer Olympics, featured a bullfight riot, and promoted science and technology. More appalling “exhibits” included Geronimo and future Bronx Zoo resident Ota Benga.
Chicago
the original Ferris wheel
St. Louis [also accept the 1904 World’s Fair, even though we asked for the city; Ota Benga was the pygmy kept at the Bronx Zoo because racism] &lt;FHR&gt;
One instance of this sort of action involved cross-dressing specifically to seduce Julius Caesar’s second wife Pompeia, whom Caesar divorced simply because she “ought not even to be under suspicion.” For 10 points each:
This sort of action was, aside from alleged incest, P. Clodius Pulcher’s most infamous crime. Another type of this action involved declaring prorrhesis, calling oneself a hierophant, and/or using kykeon in a private home.
Alcibiades was accused of not only profaning the Eleusinian Mysteries, but also mutilating statues of Hermes on the eve of an attack on this city. A man from this city allegedly told a Roman soldier not to disturb his circles.
This legendary Roman orator often alluded to Pulcher’s indiscretions in speeches like Pro Milone. This author of On the Commonwealth and On Duties exposed Catiline’s Conspiracy and was killed at Mark Antony’s behest.
profaning the mysteries [accept any description that gets across the idea of violating the holiness and/or secrecy of a mystery or all-woman cult or religious order/ceremony; anti-prompt on answers that specify the Eleusinian Mysteries or the Cult of Bona Dea]
Syracuse [or Syracusa; yes, calling the Sicilian Expedition an “attack on Syracuse” is a massive oversimplification]
Marcus Tullius Cicero [also accept “Mark Tully the Chickpea”] &lt;CB/JG&gt;
This ruler agreed to provide both material support and troops to Dutch rebels against Spanish rule in the 1585 Treaty of Nonsuch. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler, who thus provoked the ire of Philip II, who commissioned an attack on this ruler that became the subject of this ruler’s Tilbury Speech, in which she proclaimed her “heart and stomach of a king.”
The Nonsuch Treaty was prompted by a 1576 siege of this repeatedly besieged Belgian city that ended in a sack by mutinous tercios in the best-known “Spanish Fury”. Today this city is known for its diamond markets.
This ridiculously unfortunate town was subjected not only to its own 1572 “Spanish Fury” by the Duke of Alba, but also to an “English Fury” by Dutch Calvinists and Nonsuch-supplied troops under John Norreys in 1580.
Elizabeth I [prompt on partial answer; also accept nicknames like the Virgin Queen or Gloriana]
Antwerp [which also got hit with a “French Fury” in 1583]
Mechelen [also accept Malines] &lt;JS&gt;
<em>Haute cuisine</em> time! For 10 points each, answer some questions on French regions famous for their food products:
This region of south-eastern France, whose historical capital is Grenoble, is particularly associated with a style of potato dish that involves a shedload of cream and thinly-sliced potatoes.
To the north-east of the Dauphiné lies this other historical region based around Chambéry, which is famous for the tartiflette, a dish of potatoes, reblochon cheese, lardons and onions.
Further north and west of Savoy in eastern France is this historical region, whose major towns include Dijon and Auxerre [oc-sare], and which gives the French version of its name to a type of beef casserole cooked with red wine.
Dauphiné [dough-fee-neigh] [prompt on Dauphinois]
Savoy [accept Savoie]
Burgundy [accept Bourgogne]&lt;SC&gt;
Since we’ve had enough questions about maps, let’s have some questions about mops instead. For ten points each:
The inventor of the modern mop is usually said to be Manuel Corominas, who introduced his ‘Rodex’ brand mops while working in this country’s city of Zaragoza. He was born in Logrono, the capital of this country’s Rioja region.
Another great leap forward in cleaning history was Levi Dickinson’s use of a Shaker broom vise to make the sturdier brooms out of this plant. This common African food crop is called “red’ in the title of a Mo Yan novel.
Many modern breakthroughs have been made by this German manufacturer of high-pressure washers. Sales of their trademark yellow equipment make them by far the global market leader in cleaning technology.
Spain or Espana
Sorghum (prompt on broom corn)
Alfred Karcher GmbH &amp; Co. KG &lt;JK&gt;
Only a few women in history have been afforded the privilege of a burial in St Peter’s Basilica. Name some of them, for 10 points each:
This “Minerva of the North” spent much of her later life in Rome, after converting to Catholicism and giving up the Swedish throne. This daughter of Gustavus Adolphus eschewed conventional gender standards, and refused to marry.
In the Investiture Controversy, Henry IV walked barefoot through the snow to the castle of a “Gran Contessa” of this name buried in St. Peter’s. A female claimant of this name opposed Stephen of Blois in the Anarchy.
The relics of this early Christian martyr, sometimes considered to be the daughter of St Peter, occupy a namesake altar in the modern basilica. Her burial is depicted in an altarpiece by Guercino.
Queen Christina
Matilda [prompt on Maude]
St. Petronilla &lt;Tom&gt; [Note to moderator the “ð” symbol makes a sound like the “th” sound in “the”]
After becoming paralysed while fighting in the Boer War, this man was miraculously entirely cured during a bobsled crash at St Moritz. For 10 points each:
Name this early advocate of strategic bombing, whose efforts as Chief of the Air Staff over the 1920s gave rise to his nickname, the Father of the Royal Air Force.
As Air Minister, this man wore Trenchard down over several days in order to get him to first accept the role of Chief of the Air Staff. This magnate founded the Daily Mail with his brother Viscount Northcliffe.
Returning as Chief of the Air Staff in 1919, Trenchard served under this man, at the time the Secretary of State for Air. After crossing the floor, he served as Chancellor in the 1920s, before his most famous role during WWII.
Hugh Trenchard, 1st Viscount Trenchard
Viscount Rothermere [or Harold Harmsworth; prompt on Harmsworth]
Winston Churchill &lt;JK&gt;
For much of his time in office, this Prime Minister was compelled to negotiate with Henry Grattan in order to enact his legislation in Ireland. For 10 points each:
Name this long-serving Prime Minister, who resigned in 1801 in the face of George III's opposition to his proposals for Catholic relief in Ireland, which this Prime Minister hoped to carry out alongside the Act of Union.
Pitt the Younger's decision to unite British and Irish parliaments was in part spurred by a 1798 rebellion in Ireland by the United Irishmen, an organisation led and co-founded by this revolutionary nationalist.
This Irish historian examined Wolfe Tone’s part in the rising in a 1998 biography. His other works include The Rise and Fall of the Irish Nation: the Catholic Question, 1690-1830 and the one-volume Ireland: A History.
William Pitt the Younger
Theobald Wolfe Tone
Thomas Bartlett &lt;HO&gt;
One form of capital punishment in Rome was the <em>Damnatio ad bestias</em>, which involved throwing people to the lions. For 10 points each:
Later writers likely exaggerated the number of these people executed ad bestias, though Tacitus records that Nero ordered these people to be killed by dogs after the Great Fire of Rome.
This crime, a kind of murder, was punished by Romans by being sewn up into a sack with a cockerel, a dog, a monkey, and a viper, and then being thrown into a river.
Crucifixion was a quite common Roman punishment. For example, after Spartacus’ rebellion, Crassus lined this location with over 6,000 crucified slaves.
Christians
Parricide [Accept word forms of killing parent, prompt on killing a relative]
the Appian Way [or Via Appia] &lt;JS&gt;
Answer some questions about the Alcmaeonidae, for 10 points each:
One of the most famous members of that influential Athenian family was this statesman of the “Athenian golden age” who gave a legendary funeral oration and died during the plague of Athens.
This Alcmaeonid overthrew the tyranny of Hippias, but then also had to outmaneuver the aristocrat Isagoras. Once in power, this man became the principal architect of Athenian democracy, though he called it “isonomia.”
Isagoras was able to briefly exile Cleisthenes by invoking a “curse” on the Alcmaeonidae incurred when this Alcmaeonid slaughtered supporters of Cylon’s coup seeking sanctuary in the Acropolis.
Pericles
Cleisthenes
Megacles &lt;JG&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions on succession crises in Scottish history:
Scotland’s wars of independence began when Alexander III rode his horse off a cliff, and this granddaughter of his and possible betrothed of Edward II died aged 7 at Orkney of sea-sickness, prompting Edward I’s invasion.
This husband of St. Margaret of Scotland’s death at the Battle of Alnwick led to a civil war between Donald III and Duncan II. This king avenged his father by ambushing the “Red” Mormaer of Moray at Lumphanan.
Scotland’s final succession crisis before the Union of the Crowns was centred on this woman, who was forced to abdicate in favour of her infant son and executed by her cousin Elizabeth I of England
Margaret, The Maid of Norway [accept either underlined portion]
Malcolm III [also accept Malcolm Canmore or Mael Coluim mac Donchada; accept translations like Malcolm the Great Chief and Malcolm, Son of Duncan; prompt on Malcolm or Mael Coluim; the “Red Mormaer of Moray” is, of course, the historical MacBeth]
Mary, Queen of Scots [prompt on partial answer &lt;SC&gt;
Answer some questions about tort law in common law jurisdictions, for 10 points each:
McDonald’s triggered the longest case in English legal history by suing two Greenpeace supporters for this type of defamation. David Irving infamously sued Deborah Lipstadt for this tort in 1996.
This tort, though relatively rare, was reaffirmed by Lord Steyn [like “stain”] in the Three Rivers case. It is committed when a public official uses their powers to injure persons with the knowledge that such use is unlawful.
In this case, Lord Atkin famously originated the modern law of negligence by asking “Who, then, in law, is my neighbour?.” The pursuer brought the action after finding a dead snail in her ginger beer bottle.
Libel [also accept McLibel; do not accept or prompt on “slander”]
Misfeasance in Public Office
Donoghue and Stevenson [accept Donoghue against Stevenson; begrudgingly accept Donoghue v Stevenson or Donoghue versus Stevenson] &lt;ADG&gt;
George Carmack agreed to take credit for this event’s precipitating discovery over “Skookum Jim” Mason to avoid anti-First Nations racism. For 10 points each:
Name this event, inspired by the Discovery Claim on Bonanza Creek.This event saw over 100,000 prospectors swarm the namesake tributary of the Yukon in search of gold.
Canada’s government decided to secure the area, to avoid Alaskan claims, by send the North-West Mounted Police armed with this first repeating machine gun. into mountain passes.
The Mounties gained the title “royal” for volunteering in this war. A leader of the UK’s enemies in this war received a telegram congratulating his “energetic actions against the armed bands which invaded your country.”
the Klondike Gold Rush
Maxim Gun
Second Boer War &lt;JS&gt;
This man’s body was found over two months after he had got into a Lancia Lambda on the Tiber embankment with some murderous fascists. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian socialist politician who was kidnapped and repeatedly stabbed with a carpenter’s file after he delivered a speech criticising the impact of the Acerbo Law on elections.
The murder of Matteotti was traced to Amerigo Dumini, the head of this man’s personal bodyguard. This man announced his personal dictatorship over Italy shortly after the crisis, and branded himself as “Il Duce”.
The counterproductive boycott of parliament after Matteotti’s murder was termed the second “Aventine” one of these events. The Tribune position was established after the plebs left for the Mons Sacer in one of these events.
Giacomo Matteotti
Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini
“Secessions” &lt;LC&gt;
The Ottoman sultans legitimated their rule by appealing to the ideal of <em>serhadd-i mansure</em> or “ever-victorious frontier.” Answer some questions about events that made them stop doing that, for 10 points each:
The Great Turkish War was book-ended by the Battle of Zenta and the winged hussars repulsing a siege of this city, which also marked the limits of Ottoman expansion when Suleiman the Magnificent failed to take it.
The Battle of Zenta forced this 1699 treaty. Rifaat Abou-el-Haj noted that Ottomans used “a sort of make- believe” to reconcile serhadd-i mansure with their first major territorial losses, namely Hungary, in this treaty.
Appeals to serhadd-i mansure largely ended with the Küçük Kainarji treaty and these reforms by Selim III. They included a modernized army and treasury but ended with Selim III’s death in an 1806 revolt over uniforms.
Vienna [or Wien]
the Treaty of Karlowitz
the Nizam-i Cedid (chuh-DEED) [also accept the New Order] &lt;SC/JG&gt;
After it was revealed that Michelle Williams received just $800 for reshoots of <em>All the Money in the World</em>, Mark Wahlberg donated his $1.5 million pay cheque to this movement. For 10 points each:
Kevin Spacey was edited out of that film after sexual allegations were made against him, inspiring the set-up of this movement in January 2018. It asks Weinstein Effect victims to speak out using the hashtag “MeToo”.
Members of Hollywood attending this ceremony on 7 January wore black in solidarity with Time’s Up. This event saw Oprah Winfrey address the movement in her Cecil B. DeMille Award acceptance speech.
In the aftermath of the Golden Globes, Aziz Ansari was accused of sexual misconduct in an exposé on this website aimed at young women, proving that wearing black means very little if one has no idea what consent is to start with.
Time’s Up
The 75th Golden Globe Awards
babe.net &lt;LC&gt;
The small towns of Bizen and Koka still produce traditional examples of this art form, exhibiting “goma” and “hidasuki” patterns. For 10 points each:
Name this art form of masters like Manji Inoue. Works in this form from the Kofun period can be split into “hagi” and “sue” [SOO-AY] styles, while the Jomon period was known for “cord-marked” examples.
A lot of Japanese pottery made during the Edo period was used for this ritual purpose. Those who perform this ritual may drink sencha or, more commonly, matcha.
This greatest tea master of all time developed the wabi-sabi aesthetic of the tea ceremony, and served under both Oda Nobunaga and Toyotomi Hideyoshi, though the latter forced him to commit suicide.
pottery [accept ceramics or earthenware or clear equivalents]
tea ceremony [accept anything that mentions tea, accept cha no yu, accept chado]
Sen no Rikyu [accept Yoshiro Yohei, accept Soeki]
Answer some questions about nativism and anti-immigrant sentiment in nineteenth-century America, for 10 points each:
Levi Boone banned immigrants from all jobs upon becoming mayor of Chicago on this party’s ticket. Officially the American Party, its unofficial name came from members’ response to questions about membership.
The Know-Nothings were most opposed to immigrants of this religion, who were mainly from Germany and Ireland at the time, as they believed it to be organizing a plot to subvert civil liberties.
This city was the site of a 1856 riot by pro-Know-Nothing gangs like the Plug Uglies and Bloody Tubs over its mayoral race. This city’s 1861 Pratt Street Riot wrecked a German-owned newspaper called “the Wrecker.”
The Know-Nothing Party [also accept the deeply ironic early name of The Native American Party]
Roman Catholics [also accept Papists or Romanists from actual Know-Nothings]
Baltimore &lt;JS&gt;
An early prank played by members of this group involved pretending to be the Sultan of Zanzibar on a state visit to Cambridge. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of English writers and intellectuals which included Adrian Stephen and Virginia Woolf.
Virginia Woolf went with Horace de Vere Cole performed a similar prank on this Royal Navy ship, where they blacked up and dressed in turbans pretending to be a delegation from the royal family of Abyssinia.
While pretending to be the Abyssinian, the group repeatedly expressed their amazement with this phrase. This phrase has since been used to describe the wild sex parties of former Italian PM Silvio Berlusconi.
Bloomsbury Group
HMS Dreadnought
Bunga Bunga &lt;EM&gt;
A “General History” of these people by the mysterious Charles Johnson includes an epic speech in which one declares himself a “free prince” with “authority to make war on the whole world.” For 10 points each:
Name these people, some of whom received letters of marque. Japanese ones were called “wokou” or “dwarf bandits,” and the Barbary coast became a notorious enclave for ones like the operators of the Salé Republic.
Charles Johnson described a likely fictional anarchist pirate utopia called Libertalia in what is now this country. This country’s Merina kingdom was subjected to France after the Franco-Hova wars.
This “Prince of Pirates” and, like Blackbeard, alumnus of Benjamin Hornigold’s crew, became spectacularly wealthy after capturing the Whydah Galley, but died at 28 in a storm off Cape Cod.
pirates [also accept corsairs; anti-prompt on privateers]
The Republic of Madagascar
Captain Samuel “Black Sam” Bellamy (Charles Johnson has him give the speech in the lead-in to the original captain of the Whydah Galley) &lt;JG&gt;
Even after the French Wars of Religion, France was still not very happy on the religious front. For 10 points each, answer some questions on later French religious intransigence:
To the plaudits of Antoine Arnauld, this king promulgated the pro-absolutist 1682 Declaration of the Clergy of France, causing a long feud with the Pope. This king revoked the Edict of Nantes and stated “l’état, c’est moi.”
The Declaration of the Clergy of France codified and promulgated this French anti-ultramontanist doctrine championed by Pierre Pithou that holds that the Pope had spiritual, but not temporal, jurisdiction.
Louis particularly feuded with the 11th pope of this name, but had some détente with the 12th. The 3rd pope of this name fought King John over Stephen Langton, called the Fourth Lateran Council, and launched the Fourth Crusade.
Louis XIV [also accept Louis le Grand, Louis the Great, Le Roi Soleil, or the Sun King; prompt on Louis]
Gallicanism
Innocent &lt;SC&gt;
Early trade between Europeans and people from what is now this country centered on sandalwood and sea cucumbers, and a third of its population descends from indentured Indian sugarcane workers. For 10 points each:
Name this Pacific island nation, whose crown colony was created by Hercules Robinson and Arthur Gordon after its 1874 cession by Ratu Cakobau. Currently led by Frank Bainimarama, it has seen four coups since 1970.
One prized type of trade good from Fiji is the tabua, an object made from this animal used to seek honor or forgiveness from Fijian chiefs. New Bedford and Nantucket were key colonial bases for hunting this animal for oil.
The sale of these hardwood objects, typically given a “squid-like” shape by three to four tines, exploits Fiji’s fearsome pre-colonial reputation. They were presumably most prolifically used by the infamous Ratu Udre Udre.
the Republic of Fiji [or the Matanitu Tugalala o Viti, though that is in fact pronounced “Fiji”]
whales [anti-prompt on specific types of whales] (tabua are carved sperm whale teeth)
Cannibal forks [accept descriptive answers; prompt on forks] (Ratu Udre Udre continues to hold the Guinness Book of World Records title of “most prolific cannibal”; the “Cannibal Isle” reputation of Fiji was part of the justification for colonising it) &lt;HO&gt;
One of the major products of the ancient world was dead people. For 10 points each:
One of the most famous places to store dead people produced by the ancient world is this Egyptian site, home to Tutankhamun’s tomb, and many others.
This site northwest of Persepolis was the necropolis of the Achaemenid dynasty. It is also home to a square tower called the “Cube of Zoroaster” and includes several impressive rock reliefs.
Like some Cypriots and Thracians, this civilization is noted for “beehive” tombs called tholoi. Their burials often contained their distinctive boars’ tusks helmets and inscriptions in Linear B but not Linear A.
the Valley of the Kings [also accept Valley of the Gates of the Kings or in Arabic Wādī Abwāb al-Mulūk or Wādī al-Mulūk]
Naqsh-e Rustam
the Mycenaean Greeks [prompt on Greeks or Hellenes; do not accept or prompt on “Minoans”] &lt;SC&gt;
Answer some questions about socialist missteps in a particular Eastern Bloc nation, for 10 points each:
Imre Nagy’s trusting Soviet promises of safe passage after this country’s 1956 uprising failed was a bit of a fatal misstep. Afterwards, Janos Kadar made this country the “happiest barrack” with his “goulash communism.”
Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány’s expletive-laden 2006 Őszöd speech, in which he claims his party spent his term lying and doing nothing, led directly to the dominance of this right-wing party led by Viktor Orbán.
This man led a brutal, short-lived Hungarian Soviet Republic in 1919 until a Romanian invasion. His Lenin Youth’s Red Terror cratered his popularity, but his main misstep was thinking Stalin wouldn’t purge him.
Hungary [or Magyarország]
Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance [accept either underlined portion or Magyar Polgári Szövetség. Oddly enough, the post-1989 Hungarian Socialist Party was almost entirely economically laissez-faire]
Béla Kun [or Béla Kohn] &lt;JG&gt;
Richard Neville, 16<sup>th</sup> Earl Warwick, had an absurdly complicated Coat of Arms. For 10 points each, answer some questions about the families connected by them:
The quartering ‘Or three Chevrons Gules’ have been associated since 1141 with this surname, now shared with a Cambridge college. They were earls of Hertford and Gloucester in the 12th and 13th century.
Sharing the fourth quarter with Clare, the Arms associated with this surname figure in the Arms of Winston Churchill and Princess Diana. The 1st Earl of Winchester, a reviled adviser to Edward II, had this surname.
The third quarter shows the Arms of Neville differenced by a label suggesting allegiance with this rival house of the House of York, due to Warwick’s descent from John of Gaunt through his grandmother Joan Beaufort.
Clare
Despenser [prompt on Spencer]
Lancaster &lt;ADG&gt;
Oxfam has really not been having a good few weeks. For 10 points each:
The charity is currently facing intense scrutiny over a scandal in this country. It emerged that workers delivering aid after a 2010 earthquake in this country had used prostitutes, many of whom were underage.
The scandal has prompted the deputy chief executive of Oxfam to resign, and patrons to step down. This Secretary for International Development has called for a full investigation, and threatened to strip the charity of its funding.
In a separate, badly-timed blow for the charity, this chairman of Oxfam International has also been arrested in Guatemala, as part of an investigation into corruption during his time as the country’s finance minister.
Haiti
Penny Mordaunt
Juan Alberto Fuentes &lt;EJW&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about attempted political unions and federations in Africa:
The short-lived Union of African States, an attempted transnational Pan-African federation, was the brainchild of Ahmed Sékou Touré, Modibo Keïta, and this first leader of an independent Ghana.
Modibo Keïta, this country’s first president, had earlier led a union between Senegal and this country that lasted all of two months. Tuareg rebels declared an independent state of Azawad in its north in 2012.
This country’s first Prime Minister, Barthélemy Boganda, proposed a “United States of Latin Africa” before dying in a plane crash. François Bozizé’s 2003 coup in this country has led to an ongoing series of civil wars.
Kwame Nkrumah
The Republic of Mali
the Central African Republic [also accept any of the CAR; la République Centrafricaine; or the Ködörösêse tî Bêafrîka] (the “United States of Latin Africa” was supposed to have included every Romance language-speaking country in Central Africa, from Chad to Angola. It obviously got nowhere) &lt;JG&gt;
The English Civil War and its aftermath saw the emergence of a number of politico-religious dissenting groups. Name some of them, for 10 points each:
This group, founded by George Fox, were perhaps the most successful of the dissenting sects in that they still exist. They are known for their pacifism, and for founding Pennsylvania.
This group expressed its views in the Agreement of the People, championing popular sovereignty, legal equality, and religious tolerance. They are named for their supposed desire to put all of society on an equal footing.
This antinomian group was founded by two London tailors and drew on the ideas of the earlier ‘Ranters’. This group, unlike the Quakers, claimed that God existed in the form of a glorified body, and was not purely spiritual.
the Quakers [or the Society of Friends]
the Levellers
the Muggletonians &lt;SC&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about some Australian plebiscites:
The first two non-binding Australian plebiscites concerned the proposed introduction of this measure. Both plebiscites on this measure were announced by Prime Minister Billy Hughes.
The third plebiscite held in Australia was held alongside a 1977 referendum, and resulted in this song being chosen by the public to replace God Save the Queen as the Australian national anthem.
In 2017, a plebiscite was held in Australia on the question of whether same-sex marriage should be legalised. Votes in the plebiscite were submitted by this means, which entailed a $80 million cost to the government.
Conscription [accept compulsory military service or other equivalent descriptions]
Advance Australia Fair
Postal votes [accept mail; accept any answer implying the involvement of the Australian postal service] &lt;HO&gt;
Answer some bonuses about the ridiculous misadventures of Moḥammad ‘Abdullah Naṣr, affectionately known in Egypt as “Shaykh Mīzō,” [MEE-zoo] which roughly translates to “Dr. Talks-Out-His-Ass.” For 10 points each:
In 2016, Shaykh Mīzō claimed to be this eschatological figure on Facebook, using the watertight logic that his name is Moḥammad ibn ‘Abdullah. This figure will fight al-Masīḥ al-Dajjāl with Jesus in the end times.
Less humorously, that claim got Mīzō arrested in Sisi’s accelerating enforcement of blasphemy laws, another victim of which called al-Bukhārī, who compiled several of these stories about Muḥammad, a “garbage collector.”
One of Mīzō’s more reasonable claims was that this institution, his alma mater, influences Islamic extremism. This Cairo institution is one of the world’s oldest and most influential centers of Islamic scholarship.
the Mahdī
Ḥadīth [also accept Ṣaḥīḥ in context; the technically correct plural of “Ḥadīth” is ’aḥādīth but obviously accept Ḥadīths] (the “other victim” is the telesecularist TV host Islām al-Buḥayrī, whom Sisi pardoned)
Jāmi‘at al-Azhar al-Sharīf [or the Honorable Al-Azhar University] (While debating this point on television, Mizo once infamously allegedly threatened to beat up his interlocutor with an offstage hammer) &lt;JG&gt;
This man claimed descent from George Castriot, and at one point went by Castriot’s nickname of Iskander Bey. For 10 points each:
Name this aristocrat, rival of Fan Noli, and ruler of his nation, who instituted a namesake military salute where the right hand is placed over the heart, with the palm facing downwards. [Note: do the salute]
Zog ruled as Prime Minister, then President, then finally King of this Balkan country.
The number of assassination attempts on Zog can be partly explained by his being the subject of around 600 of these social obligations, from which people often tried to escape by staying in kulla ngujimi or “locked towers.”
King Zog I [also accept Ahmet Zogu or Ahmet Muhtar Zogolli]
The Republic of Albania [or Shqipëria]
Gjakmarrja [or blood-taking; also accept Albanian blood feuds; prompt on feuds and equivalents like vendettas] &lt;JS&gt;
One holder of this political office was appointed to it after having served as Theresa May’s parliamentary campaign manager. For ten points each:
Name this political office held by Gavin Williamson prior to his appointment as Secretary of Defence in November 2017. The holder of this office typically also serves as Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury.
During his time as Chief Whip, Williamson gained notoriety for the presence on his desk of his pet Cronus, an animal of this specific type.
Following Williamson’s promotion to the Ministry of Defence, this man replaced him as the Government’s Chief Whip, and is the current holder of the office.
Government Chief Whip [prompt on whip]
Tarantula [accept theraphosida; prompt on spider]
Julian Smith &lt;HO&gt;
This sloop was laid down along the Mersey River in 1862 by John Laird Sons and Company. For 10 points each:
Name this ship that was sunk by the USS Kearsarge at the Battle of Cherbourg (SHARE-boorg). This commerce raider was the focus of a diplomatic complaint involving reparations from Britain for damages incurred during the Civil War.
This Secretary of State to President Grant settled the Alabama Claims through international arbitration. This diplomat also helped calm down a war scare with Spain after the Virginius affair.
This Senator wanted to settle the Alabama Claims by having Britain cede Canada to the US. This politician is more famous for being beaten nearly to death on the Senate floor by Preston Brooks.
CSS Alabama
Hamilton Fish
Charles Sumner &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Carolus Clusius was an important 16th-century horticulturist. For 10 points each:
Clusius was employed by Anton, a member of this German banking family. Its Augsburg scion Jakob (YAH-kop) was known as “the rich.”
Starting in Vienna, Clusius’s observations on the breaking virus and his breeding program helped to establish the mania for these flowers in the Netherlands.
Clusius left Vienna when he was appointed to lead the Hortus Botanicus in this city. Like Alkmaar, this city was saved from Spanish capture by the breaking of dikes and was afterwards rewarded for its perseverance with a university by William I.
Fugger (FOOG-guh) family [accept Jakob Fugger]
tulips
Leiden (LYE-din) &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This man’s ghost supposedly haunts the town of Oranienbaum, protecting children from German bombs during World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler, whose assumption to the throne was termed “The Miracle of the House of Brandenburg” by Frederick the Great. This Tsar’s most famous impersonator was Yemelyan Pugachev.
Claiming to be Peter III, the conman Stephen the Little was accepted as tsar by the people of this prince-bishopric. This small Adriatic principality secularized under Danilo I and split Sandjak with Serbia after the First Balkan War.
Peter III was overthrown by this woman, his wife and successor, with the help of the Orlov brothers. This tsarina who corresponded with Voltaire counted Grigory Potemkin among her lovers.
Peter III [prompt on Peter]
Montenegro [or Prince-Bishopric of Montenegro; or Principality of Montenegro; or Kingdom of Montenegro]
Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
One of this group’s leaders was John Elder, the “Fighting Pastor.” For 10 points each:
Name this vigilante group of frontiersmen that murdered twenty Susquehannock (suss-kwuh-HAN-uck) people in the Conestoga (con-uh-STOH-guh) massacre before marching on Philadelphia in the aftermath of the French and Indian War.
The Paxton Boys were met outside Philadelphia in Germantown by this Founding Father, who agreed to have the legislature review their complaints. This polymath is more famous for publishing Poor Richard’s Almanack.
The Iroquois were finally pushed out of the frontier by this 1779 campaign organized by George Washington. This expedition terrorized Iroquois villages in response to raids by leaders such as Joseph Brant and Cornplanter.
Paxton Boys
Benjamin Franklin
Sullivan Expedition [or Sullivan-Clinton Expedition] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This epithet was held by a king otherwise known as the “fighter” until he grew older. For 10 points each:
Name this rather unfortunate epithet held by the French king Louis VI, as well as Charles, a Carolingian king much maligned for purchasing peace from raiders attacking Paris in 886.
Charles the Fat paid these people to stop attacking Paris and instead attack the rebellious Burgundy. These Norse seafarers were noted for their vicious skills in battling.
Despite his name, Louis the Fat of France was a well-regarded king, who was ably served by this biographer and adviser, an abbot from Saint-Denis (san-duh-NEE) who authored The Deeds of Louis the Fat and popularized Gothic architecture.
the fat [accept Louis the Fat; accept Charles the Fat]
Vikings
Abbot Suger (soo-JAIR) [accept phonetic pronunciations] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This text cites the now-lost “books of the annals” of its title post, along with the “book of the Acts of Solomon.” For 10 points each:
Name this book, now split into two parts, that documents the title rulers of the united and divided states of Israel.
Kings displays a historiographical agenda, judging the success of monarchs by their devotion to the Jerusalem temple cult; thus, kings of Judah are judged by whether they eliminated these locations, including Asherah Poles. They share their name with the platform from which the Torah is read in modern synagogues.
That agenda is clear from Kings’s treatment of Jeroboam II and this king, who reigned between Zimri and Ahab. Despite archaeological evidence that this king greatly expanded the kingdom’s territory and founded a widely-recognized dynasty, he is quickly passed over by Kings.
Book of Kings [or First Kings and Second Kings; or 1 Kings and 2 Kings; or answers like “1st and 2nd Kings”; or Melakhim]
high places [or bamah; or bamot; or bimah]
Omri &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Christian/Bible Religion and was written by John Marvin&gt;
An employee of this institution, Michael Fish, was widely mocked for joking that there was no hurricane on the way prior to the Great Storm of 1987. For 10 points each:
Name this institution founded by former Beagle captain Robert FitzRoy, which issues things the Shipping Forecast and Severe Weather Warnings.
The Storm Tides Warning Service in the Met Office was created in 1953 after a massive North Sea flood devastated both the UK and this country, which experienced flooding when dykes in the province of Zeeland were breached.
A “Free” university in this European city maintains a meteorological institute that has since the 1950s named all high and low pressure areas affecting central Europe. In November 2002 the institute here began the “Adopt-a-Vortex” plan allowing people to buy naming rights for systems.
The Met Office [or the Meteorological Office; prompt on descriptive answers; do not accept or prompt on “BBC” or “British Broadcasting Corporation”]
Netherlands [or Holland]
Berlin [accept Free University of Berlin] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
After its independence, Abubakar Balewa became its first prime minister. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose first republic ended when Balewa was overthrown by a 1966 coup d’état.
In 1967, the eastern portion of Nigeria declared independence as this abortive state. The creation of this state lead to the Nigerian Civil War.
The end of the Nigerian Civil War was marked by a speech given by Yakubu Gowon that included this four-word phrase offering reconciliation.
Nigeria
Republic of Biafra
“no victor, no vanquished” &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
This man interviewed the neighbors of the subject of one his biographies, who told him stories about how he had cut down a cherry tree as a child. For 10 points each:
Name this first biographer of George Washington.
This constitutional scholar and president of Princeton University wrote an 1896 biography of George Washington that critiqued some of the claims made by Parson Weems.
This American historian won a Pulitzer Prize for his Washington: A Life. His biography of Alexander Hamilton was used by Lin-Manuel Miranda as a source for Hamilton, on which he is credited as a production assistant.
Parson Weems
Woodrow Wilson
Ron Chernow &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
A member of this group, Aristoteles (uh-riss-TOH-tell-eez), is an interlocutor in the <em>Parmenides</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these oligarchs who were installed as rulers of Athens after Sparta won the Peloponnesian War. They were overthrown after eight months by Thrasybulus, who restored democracy to the city.
This leader of the Thirty Tyrants executed his fellow tyrant Theramenes (thair-uh-MEE-neez) for protesting the mass executions. This relative of Plato lends his name to a dialogue about Atlantis that follows the Timaeus.
At one time, Critias was a student of this philosopher, who disobeyed an order by the Thirty to turn over Leon of Salamis for execution. This teacher of Plato was later executed himself for corrupting the youth of Athens.
Thirty Tyrants
Critias [do not accept or prompt on “Crito”]
Socrates &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
The Seybert Commission of 1887, a group emanating from the University of Pennsylvania, denounced these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people such as Cora L. V. Scott and the Fox Sisters, the latter of whom claimed to use the “rapping” technique. These people were especially popular in the age of antebellum reform, frequently among radical Quakers.
Much early interest in spiritualism began in this state. A “burned-over district” in this state was where many religious ideas, such as those of the Millerites, began.
This president’s wife, Mary Todd, was especially interested in spiritualism and conducted séances (SAY-on-sizz) in the White House during wartime.
spiritualists [or mediums]
New York
Abraham Lincoln &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This man pioneered “underway fuel replenishment” for the US Navy as Chief Engineer of the <em>USS Maumee</em> during World War I. For 10 points each:
Name this fleet admiral who commanded the Pacific Fleet during World War II. He names a class of nuclear-powered US aircraft carriers.
This admiral commanded the Third Fleet and was twice court-martialed for sailing into a typhoon. He won the Battle of Leyte Gulf, though he was criticized for leaving San Bernardino Strait unguarded.
This admiral led the Third Fleet’s Fast Carrier Task Force at Leyte Gulf and served as Chief of Staff to Halsey. His son served as Commander-in-Chief of Pacific forces during the Vietnam War, and his grandson spent five years in the “Hanoi Hilton” after being shot down.
Chester William Nimitz, Sr. [accept Nimitz-class aircraft carriers]
William Frederick “Bull” Halsey, Jr. [or “Bill” Halsey]
John Sidney McCain, Sr. &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This story was broken in a <em>Guardian</em> article by Amelia Gentlemen detailing an interview with Paulette Wilson, who spent a week in Yarl’s Wood detention center. For 10 points each:
Name this British scandal about a namesake generation of immigrants brought to the UK to fulfill a post-war labor shortage. This scandal arose from alleged threats of deportation made towards those immigrants if they could not prove their legal residency status.
The Windrush Scandal takes its name from the HMT Empire Windrush, which docked at Kingston on this Caribbean island to pick up servicemen and emigrants on its way to London in 1948.
The Windrush scandal prompted Amber Rudd, who held this Cabinet post previously held by Theresa May, to resign. She was replaced by Sajid Javid, who is responsible for law enforcement, immigration, and security as the holder of this office.
Windrush Scandal
Jamaica
Home Secretary [or Her Majesty’s Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department] &lt;The above question is for the category Current Events Non-US and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This historian used diary evidence to write her 2011 monograph, <em>The Eichmann Trial</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this professor at Emory University who was sued in a libel trial by Holocaust denier David Irving over the way that she portrayed his beliefs in her book Denying the Holocaust.
An expert witness in the Lipstadt trial was Richard Evans, who was then serving as a professor at this university. Henry VI founded this university’s King’s College to accept boys from Eton College.
Evans has also written a “trilogy” of books detailing the history of this government that operated concentration camps at Auschwitz and Treblinka.
Deborah Lipstadt
University of Cambridge
Third Reich [or Nazi Germany or National Socialist Government] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This man ordered the ten grandsons of Ali to be killed by being locked in a suffocating closet. For 10 points each:
Name this caliph who ruled from 754 to 775 and founded the Round City that became Baghdad.
al-Mansur was the second caliph of this dynasty that supplanted the Umayyads.
At the start of his reign, al-Mansur assassinated this popular Khorasani general who led the military accession of the Abbasids.
al-Mansur [Abu Ja’far Abdallah ibn Muhammad al-Mansur]
Abbasids
Abu Muslim [Abu Muslim Abd al-Rahman ibn Muslim al-Khorasani] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This man’s father was the lead investigator for the Lindbergh baby kidnapping case and later helped to train SAVAK in Iran. For 10 points each:
Name this US general and commander of CENTCOM whose Internal Look ’90 plans became the basis for his successful execution of Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm.
The purpose of Operation Desert Shield was to protect Saudi oil fields from this country. This country’s dictator Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait to start the Gulf War.
This general was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the Gulf War. In a later post, he presented a fake vial of anthrax to the UN Security Council and declared that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.
Herbert Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr.
Iraq [Iraqi Republic or al-Jumhūriyah al-’Irāqīyah]
Colin Luther Powell &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This country’s entry into World War I was secretly negotiated in the London Pact, guaranteeing them South Tyrol and the Austrian Littoral in the eventual peace. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose “mutilated victory” in World War I was a rallying cry of Benito Mussolini.
Italian commander-in-chief Luigi Cadorna launched four failed offensives along this river. The last of twelve battles named for this river was a crushing defeat at Caporetto.
This member of the Big Four negotiated on Italy’s behalf at the Paris Peace Conference. This prime minister’s inability to acquire Fiume (FYOO-may) for Italy in the settlement forced his resignation.
Italy [or Kingdom of Italy; or Regno d’Italia]
Isonzo River [or the Soča River; or the Lusinç River; or the Sontig River]
Vittorio Orlando &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Caroline Vout identified this man as the third-most-common real person depicted in classical sculpture. For 10 points each:
Name this man who, after he drowned in 130 AD, became the object of a deification cult led by the Roman emperor with whom he was romantically involved.
This Spanish-born Roman emperor, who commissioned a wall on the border with the Picts in 122 AD, advocated the Antinous cult.
In the year after Antinous’s death, Hadrian formed this league of Greek cities, which was based at Athens and sponsored namesake games.
Antinous (an-tih-NOH-us)
Hadrian [Publius Aelius Hadrianus Augustus]
Panhellenion [or Panhellenium] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
James Bradley wrote <em>Flags of Our Fathers</em> about the soldiers depicted in this image, though in 2016 it was discovered that his father John Bradley had been misidentified. For 10 points each:
Name this iconic photograph taken by Joe Rosenthal during a 1945 battle on a Japanese island. Felix de Weldon later used this image to sculpt the Marine Corps War Memorial.
Yevgeny Khaldei’s 1945 photograph of this building depicts a Soviet soldier hoisting the Hammer and Sickle over it during the Battle of Berlin. This building was severely damaged by a 1933 arson attack.
A photograph from this war depicts a Royal Marine “yomper” with the Union Jack flying from his pack on a march from the San Carlos beachhead.
Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima
Reichstag (RYKE-shtogg)
Falklands War [or Guerra de las Malvinas] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
In regards to a plan proposed by this man, Austen Chamberlain said “gentlemen do not behave in such a way.” For 10 points each:
Name this British politician, who proposed with a Frenchman an exceedingly unpopular 1935 plan to end a war by dividing Abyssinia into an Italian and Abyssinian sector.
After the failure of the Hoare–Laval Pact, Hoare was replaced as Foreign Secretary by this youthful conservative, who held the post again in the Churchill ministry during most of World War II.
Historian A. J. P. Taylor said that the Hoare–Laval Pact’s failure damaged both the power and prestige of this international peacekeeping group, which formed in 1920 and was becoming increasingly irrelevant by the mid 1930s.
Sir Samuel John Gurney Hoare [prompt on Hoare–Laval Pact]
Anthony Eden [or Robert Anthony Eden]
League of Nations &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
The Bandiera brothers’ expedition to Naples failed because the British government spied on this man’s mail during his exile in London. For 10 points each:
Name this Genoese republican who founded the Young Italy movement. Cavour called this man “chief of the assassins,” though he expressly disclaimed the “theory of the dagger.”
Mazzini was briefly a triumvir (try-UM-ver) of this city, which formed a republic after Pope Piux IX fled to Gaeta (gah-AY-tah). This city’s republic ended when Napoleon III sieged it and restored the Pope to the Vatican Palace in this city.
Mazzini sent an 1831 letter to this King of Sardinia-Piedmont urging him to oust the Austrians and unify Italy. This monarch lost the battles of Novara and Custoza and he names the first constitution of unified Italy.
Giuseppe Mazzini (mah-TSEE-nee)
Rome
Charles Albert of Sardinia [do not prompt on “Charles” or “Albert”] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Under William Mahone, this party abolished the poll tax and the public whipping post. For 10 points each:
Name this biracial political party that held power in Virginia during the 1870s. This party was named for its stance on the repayment of prewar debt, in opposition to the Funders.
The Readjusters opposed this legislation that benefited bondholders, calling it the “Broker’s Bill.” This act shares its name with the petitioner in a case that ruled “the power to tax is the power to destroy.”
Grover Cleveland’s election and the Danville Riot led to the collapse of the Readjusters and the political dominance of the Democrats, who enacted racial segregation laws named for this fictional Black trickster.
Readjusters [or Readjuster Party]
McCulloch Act
Jim Crow [or Jim Crow laws] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
A disaster in this city gave Joseph I a lifelong phobia of living inside walls, so he moved the court to the nearby hills of Ajuda (uh-ZHOO-duh). For 10 points each:
Name this Portuguese city whose Ribeira Palace was destroyed by a magnitude-nine earthquake in 1755. This city’s earthquake had a strong influence on the writings of Voltaire.
This minister names the style of anti-seismic architecture used to rebuild Lisbon. This nobleman gained immense power after executing the rival Távora family following an assassination attempt against Joseph I.
Pombal used the tensions of the Távora affair to expel this organization from Portugal. Spain expelled this group after the Esquilache Riots, and they were formally suppressed in 1773 by the bull Dominus ac Redemptor.
Lisbon [or Lisboa]
Marquis of Pombal [or Sebastião José de Carvalho e Melo, 1st Marquis of Pombal, 1st Count of Oeiras]
Jesuits [or The Society of Jesus] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
The Southern Baptist Convention rejected the 2005 and 2011 revisions of this translation because they introduced gender-neutral terms such as “human beings” or “people” instead of “man” and “mankind.” For 10 points each:
Name this modern Bible translation, by far the most popular English translation with Evangelical Protestants. It supplanted the older KJV and RSV and remained ahead of new competitors like the NLT.
The NIV is published by this company, which also publishes devotional books and other Christian literature.
Zondervan is owned by the media conglomerate NewsCorp, which also owns Fox News and the Wall Street Journal. NewsCorp is the holding company of this Australian-born mogul, who was also previously CEO of 20th Century Fox.
The New International Version [or NIV; do not accept or prompt on “tNIV”]
Zondervan [prompt on HarperCollins]
Keith Rupert Murdoch &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Christian/Bible Religion and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This leader promoted a compromise doctrine known as Monothelitism to bring heretics back into the Church’s fold. For 10 points each:
Name this Byzantine emperor who instituted Greek as the official language of the empire. This emperor sacked Khosrau II’s palace at Dastagird in the last of the Byzantine-Sassanid Wars.
Heraclius is known as the “first crusader” because he recovered this Christian relic while campaigning in Persia. A miracle reportedly helped Empress Helena identify this relic at the site of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
Soon after the defeat of the Sassanids, Heraclius faced an invasion by these people, whose tribes had recently been united under Muhammad. This ethnic group’s Rashidun Caliphate conquered the Levant, Egypt, and Africa from Byzantium.
Heraclius
The True Cross [or Holy Cross; or Saint Cross; or Holyrood]
Arabs &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Answer the following about mostly bloodless wars, for 10 points each.
Only one man was wounded in this dispute between Ohio and Michigan over a strip named for a city on the Maumee River that shares its name with a city in Spain. The Frostbitten Convention ended this war by awarding Michigan the Upper Peninsula.
The only casualty of this British–US conflict was the namesake animal. This confrontation concerned claims to the San Juan Islands between Vancouver Island and the Washington Territory.
Though not bloodless, this 1798 naval war with France got its name because it was undeclared. Offensive treatment of American diplomats in the XYZ affair led to the eruption of this conflict.
Toledo War
Pig War [or Pig Episode or Pig and Potato War or the Northwestern Boundary Dispute]
Quasi-War [or Quasi-guerre] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
In the preamble to the Communist Manifesto, this man is matched with François Guizot (ghee-ZOH) as one of the powers in a holy alliance to exorcise the specter of communism. For 10 points each:
Name this Austrian statesman who served as Chancellor and Foreign Minister of Austria. This conservative diplomat organized the Congress of Vienna and was forced to resign during the Revolutions of 1848.
The March Revolution of 1848 led to the formation of this convention that issued a constitution and proclaimed a united German Empire. This assembly offered the German throne to Frederick William IV of Prussia, who declared that he would not accept “a crown from the gutter.”
Also in 1848, this country ended its “Restoration and Regeneration” Period with a constitution ushering in a federal state. In the previous year, this country experienced the Sonderbund War between its Protestants and Catholics.
Klemens von Metternich [or Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar, Prince von Metternich-Winneburg zu Beilstein]
Frankfurt Parliament [or Frankfurter Nationalversammlung]
Switzerland [or the Swiss Confederation; or Schweiz; or Suisse; or Svizzera; or Svizra] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
In 1658, Robert Knox and his father of the same name set out on a trading voyage to Persia. For 10 points each:
Knox and his father were shipwrecked and forced to land in Sri Lanka where they were captured by forces loyal to this kingdom’s ruler Rajasinha II. This kingdom was previously subject to the Kotte kingdom.
Knox spent nineteen years in Kandy before escaping to Arippu, which was controlled by this European colonial empire. Jakarta was known as Batavia when it was ruled by this empire.
In addition to writing a best-selling account of his journey, Knox brought back the first described sample of this plant to Europe. An edible form of this plant is consumed as bhang in India.
Kingdom of Kandy [or Mahanuwara]
Dutch Empire [or the Netherlands; or Holland]
cannabis [or Cannabis indica; or marijuana] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Answer the following about the relationship between Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X, for 10 points each.
King and Malcolm only met face-to-face briefly in Washington, D.C., during 1964 debates on this law that outlawed discrimination based on race. It was signed into law by Lyndon Johnson in July of that year.
In a 1965 interview with Alex Haley for this magazine, King said that he wished Malcolm would “talk less of violence.” In another interview for this magazine, Haley interviewed American Nazi leader George Lincoln Rockwell.
King sent a sympathetic telegram to Malcolm’s widow after Malcolm’s assassination, but did not comment on whether he believed that this leader of the Nation of Islam at the time of the killing was involved in the murder.
Civil Rights Act of 1964
Playboy
Elijah Muhammad [or Elijah Robert Poole; prompt on Muhammad] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about philosophers descended from the Akan (uh-KON) people of present-day Ghana, for 10 points each.
Akan philosopher Anton Wilhelm Amo wrote a 1734 dissertation contesting this philosopher’s distinction between the res cogitans and res extensa, as described in Meditations on First Philosophy.
This British-born philosopher with an Asante father discussed the ethics of ethnic identity and cultural difference in Cosmopolitanism and In My Father’s House.
Kwasi Wiredu, who debated Akan notions of personhood with Kwame Gyekye (KWA-may JAY-chay), wrote his thesis at Oxford under this author of The Concept of Mind.
René Descartes
Kwame Anthony Appiah (APP-ee-uh) [or Kwame Akroma-Ampim Kusi Anthony Appiah]
Gilbert Ryle &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Philosophy and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
At a 1976 concert, a drunk Eric Clapton voiced support for this speech, declaring “Keep Britain White!” For 10 points each:
Name this 1968 speech by Enoch Powell denouncing the Race Relations Bill and calling for an end to immigration. Some commentators credit the Conservative electoral victory in 1970 to this speech.
This Conservative Leader of the Opposition at the time sacked Enoch Powell from the Shadow Cabinet in response. During his government, Britain joined the European Community, and he imposed Direct Rule in Northern Ireland after Bloody Sunday.
Shortly after leaving office, this Prime Minister remarked that Powell “had made a valid argument, if in sometimes regrettable terms.” This “Iron Lady” defeated Heath to become Conservative Leader in 1975.
“Rivers of Blood” Speech
Edward Heath
Margaret Thatcher &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This event began during a student protest on November 17, 1989. For 10 points each:
Name this transfer of power that ended the one-party rule of Czechoslovakia’s Communist Party.
This General Secretary of the Czechoslovakian Communist Party resigned in November 1989 during the Velvet Revolution.
The term “Velvet Revolution” was created by Rita Klímová, who served as the ambassador for Czechoslovakia to the United States and had this academic profession. Ernesto Zedillo and Luis Donaldo Colosio, two leading candidates in the 1994 Mexican presidential election, both had this profession.
Velvet Revolution [or Gentle Revolution; or sametová revoluce; or nežná revolúcia]
Miloš Jakeš (MEE-lohsh YAH-kesh)
economist [or professor of economics] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
Answer the following about Supreme Court cases with something in common, for 10 points each.
Cases such as 1964’s New York Times Co. v. Sullivan involve issues of libel and defamation and thus relate to freedom of the press, a right outlined in this constitutional amendment.
In a 1974 case, the Court established protection against defamation claims when lawyer Elmer Gertz sued Robert Welch Incorporated, the legal name of this group, after it published an article insulting Gertz. This group was supposedly named after a missionary who was the “first casualty of the Cold War.”
In a 1988 case, the Court upheld the right to parody after evangelist Jerry Falwell sued this publisher of Hustler magazine for a satirical ad mocking Falwell. This free speech advocate was paralyzed after being shot by a white supremacist in 1978.
First Amendment
John Birch Society
Larry Flynt [Larry Claxton Flynt Jr.] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This man denied a sixth term to US Senator Thomas Hart Benton by pushing namesake pro-slavery resolutions through the state senate. For 10 points each:
Name this Democrat who was elected governor on a pro-Union ticket in 1860 but plotted to secede by seizing a US arsenal, leading to bloodshed with a force led by Nathaniel Lyon at Camp Jackson.
Jackson was governor of this border state but was forced into exile after the Confederate defeat at Pea Ridge. Franz Sigel led a Union volunteer regiment of German immigrants from this state.
This commander of the Department of the West was blamed for Lyon’s death and defeat at the Battle of Wilson’s Creek and was dismissed by Lincoln after emancipating the slaves of Missouri. This hero of the Mexican-American War was nicknamed the “Pathfinder.”
Claiborne Fox Jackson
Missouri
John Charles Frémont &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This project was begun during the reign of Lucius Tarquinius Priscus. For 10 points each:
Name this public work that discharged waste into the Tiber River. This marvel of Roman engineering was originally built to drain the marsh on the site of the Forum.
This architect later cleansed and enlarged the Cloaca Maxima before riding through the sewer in a boat to prove his success. This right-hand man to Augustus also built the original Pantheon and won the Battle of Actium.
This contemporary of Agrippa made reference to Agrippa’s public works program in his ten-volume De architectura, which inspired Leonardo Da Vinci.
Cloaca Maxima [or the Greatest Sewer]
Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa
Marcus Vitruvius Pollio &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This statesman’s “Second Reply to Hayne” praised “liberty and union, now and forever, one and inseparable.” For 10 points each:
Name this politician from New Hampshire who signed a treaty with Baron Ashburton. He was the third member of the so-called “Great Triumvirate” alongside Clay and Calhoun, and was secretary of state under three presidents.
The Webster–Ashburton treaty resolved this mostly nonviolent boundary dispute over the northern border of Maine with New Brunswick. It began with disagreements between lumberjacks.
The Webster–Ashburton treaty also put to rest the disputes surrounding this short-lived micro-state at the far north of New Hampshire. This country declared independence and drafted a constitution after denizens were taxed by both America and Canada, resigning their efforts when the American militia showed up.
Daniel Webster
Aroostook (uh-RUSS-took) War
The Republic of Indian Stream &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This man was compelled by his father into a loveless marriage with Cardinal Richelieu’s (REESH-lyuh’s) niece, whom he locked away at Châteauroux (shah-toh-ROO). For 10 points each:
Name this French general who shattered the tercio (TAIR-see-oh) formations of the Army of Flanders at the Battle of Rocroi (ro-KWAH). During the Franco-Spanish War, he was decisively defeated by his rival Turenne at the Battle of the Dunes.
The Grand Condé was a rebellious leader in this civil war during the minority of Louis XIV. This rebellion consisted of a Parlements’ (par-luh-MONT) phase and a Princes’ phase and was named for slings used to break the windows of Cardinal Mazarin’s (mah-zah-RAN’s) associates.
The Grand Condé was pardoned for his role in the Fronde by this 1659 treaty that ended the Franco-Spanish War. By the terms of this treaty, Louis XIV was married to Maria Theresa of Spain and France gained the county of Roussillon (roo-see-YON).
The Grand Condé [or Louis II, Prince of Condé; prompt on Duc d’Enghien (duke dong-GAN); prompt on Prince of Condé]
The Fronde
Treaty of the Pyrenees &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Donald Rumsfeld said that he eliminated these two words from a speech, but forgot to have them removed from a banner. For 10 points each:
Give these two words displayed above a man giving a May 2003 speech on the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, which resulted in much mockery.
This president, who was speaking about the Iraq War, gave the so-called “Mission Accomplished” speech.
Rumsfeld told this journalist that he forgot to remove the banner. This co-author of the book The Final Days wrote the four-volume Bush at War series, which included Plan of Attack and State of Denial.
Mission Accomplished
George Walker Bush [or Dubya; or Bush the younger; or Bush 43; prompt on Bush; do not accept or prompt on “George Herbert Walker Bush” or “George H. W. Bush”]
Bob Woodward [Robert Upshur Woodward] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
When asked why the military chose to bomb this region, Deputy Chief of Mission Monteagle Stearns testified to the Senate that “we had all those planes sitting around and couldn’t just let them stay there with nothing to do.” For 10 points each:
Name this region of a Southeast Asian country. It contains thousands of its namesake sandstone receptacles, which locals believe are for collecting monsoon rains.
The Plain of Jars is located in this country. The US Air Force dropped more bombs on this landlocked neighbor of Vietnam during the “Secret War” than it did during the entirety of World War II.
The Plain of Jars is near this tallest mountain in Laos, which has not been climbed in thirty years because it is next to the grounds of a military base and is covered in unexploded ordnance.
Plain of Jars [prompt on Xiangkhoang Plateau]
Laos [or the Lao People’s Democratic Republic; or Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxon Lao; or République démocratique populaire lao]
Phou Bia (POO BEE-uh) &lt;The above question is for the category Geography World and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Thomas Edison described this invention as the “eighth wonder of the world.” For 10 points each:
Name the machine invented by Ottmar Mergenthaler that set complete lines of texts in blocks called slugs. This invention sped up the typesetting process, allowing newspapers to get longer.
Mergenthaler based his company in this city. H. L. Mencken covered the Scopes Monkey trial while working for a newspaper based in this city.
James Clephane, who was instrumental in the foundation of the Mergenthaler Linotype company, served as an expert stenographer. His enthusiasm for rapid transcription drove the invention of these devices, the Scholes and Glidden type of which was the first machine that used the QWERTY (quirt-ee) keyboard layout.
Linotype (LINE-oh-type) machine
Baltimore, Maryland [accept The Baltimore Sun]
typewriter &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This city was made an international zone to be jointly governed by Spain, France, and the UK in 1923, an arrangement that lasted until 1956. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was ceded along with Bombay to Britain as part of Catherine of Braganza’s dowry on her marriage to Charles II. The English withdrew from this city after it was captured by the Alaouite Dynasty in 1684.
This territory separated from Tangier by its namesake strait was captured by George Rooke during the War of Spanish Succession. As one of the Pillars of Hercules, this town’s Rock is represented on the coat of arms of Spain.
This Channel port fell under English rule after the Battle of Crécy (kray-SEE) and became a center for the wool trade. Francis, Duke of Guise (gheez) finally evicted the English from the mainland by taking this city in 1558.
Tangier [or Tangiers or Tanjah]
Gibraltar
Calais (kal-AY or KAL-ay) &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This book argues that the refusal of slaves to work during the American Civil War amounted to a general strike and was a major contributor to the Confederacy’s loss. For 10 points each:
Name this book that applied Marxist analysis to the years after the Civil War. It argued that elite planters turned the white working class against black freedmen through the “psychological wages” of whiteness.
This thinker rebutted the Dunning School in his Black Reconstruction in America. He opposed Booker T. Washington’s Atlanta compromise and wrote The Souls of Black Folk.
In 1910, Du Bois became the first editor of this official magazine of the NAACP. Jessie Redmon Fauset promoted the Harlem Renaissance as literary editor for this magazine.
Black Reconstruction in America
W. E. B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois]
The Crisis &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
After the killer of this man and George Moscone only received an involuntary manslaughter conviction, the White Nights riots broke out. For 10 points each:
Name this California city supervisor who was killed by fellow supervisor, Dan White, whose lawyers utilized the so-called “Twinkie defense” to successfully earn a lesser conviction.
In 1977, Milk became the first openly gay man elected to this California city’s Board of Supervisors.
Milk opposed anti-gay laws in California such as the proposed Briggs Initiative. Such laws built off of the successful 1977 campaign in Florida repealing an anti-discrimination law led by this Christian activist and former pop singer.
Harvey Bernard Milk
San Francisco
Anita Jane Bryant &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Unlike William Crooke, Herbert Hope Risley believed that there was a biological basis to this system, which he sought to prove by measuring peoples’ noses. For 10 points each:
Name this general kind of system studied among the Piramalai Kallars by Louis Dumont, as described in the book Homo Hierarchicus. B. R. Ambedkar advocated its “annihilation.”
This particular concept of caste refers to membership in an endogamous clan or community, which is often bound to certain occupations.
Based on Louis Dumont’s work on the tendency for lower castes to emulate practices of upper castes, M. N. Srinivas popularized a term whose name is derived from this classical language of the Vedas.
caste system in India [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, jati or varna]
jati
Sanskrit [accept Sanskritization] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Anthropology and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
After leaving office, this man and one of his former African-American employees did a musical comedy act together called “The Governor and the Dishwasher.” For 10 points each:
Name this pro-segregationist governor who preceded Jimmy Carter in office.
Both Maddox and Carter were governors of this southern state.
Maddox ran against Carter in the 1976 presidential election as the nominee of the American Independent Party, a conservative third party that previously nominated this man in 1968 to run against both Hubert Humphrey and Richard Nixon.
Lester Garfield Maddox Sr.
Georgia
George Wallace [George Corley Wallace Jr.] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
John F. Kennedy infuriated this leader by repeatedly mispronouncing his name and ignoring a congratulatory note. For 10 points each:
Name this prime minister who cancelled the Avro Arrow program and accepted Bomarc missiles from the Kennedy administration. This prime minister’s indecision over equipping the missiles with nuclear payloads led to his 1963 defeat to Lester Pearson’s Liberals.
Diefenbaker was prime minister of this country, which joined with the United States to form NORAD in 1957.
After the US canceled the Skybolt missile project, British Prime Minister Harold MacMillan negotiated the US sale of these missiles with President Kennedy. The program named for these submarine-based missiles preceded the Trident program.
John George Diefenbaker (DEE-fin-BAY-ker)
Canada
UGM-27 Polaris &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This event happened so fast that a film crew assigned to cover it missed getting most of it on film, and many claim what they did film was a dramatic recreation instead. For 10 points each:
Identify this Christmas Day event that occurred five minutes after the conclusion of a show trial organized by coup leader Ion Iliescu (yon eel-YES-koo). After this event, the death penalty was abolished in the country it took place in.
Nicolae Ceaușescu (chow-SHESS-koo) was the dictator of this European country from 1967 until his overthrow and death in 1989.
The trial that condemned the Ceaușescus was this kind of impromptu court-martial similar to a kangaroo court. Used by the Nazis, this proceeding has a name referring to an object frequently used as a writing table during the event.
execution of Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu [accept killing or death in place of “execution”]
Romania
drumhead court-martial &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This agreement is considered to have laid the foundation for the modern notion of sovereignty. For 10 points each:
Name this series of treaties signed at Osnabrück and Münster that ended the Thirty Years’ War.
The Peace of Westphalia reaffirmed this principle of religious toleration and extended it to Calvinists. Under this four-world Latin principle, Imperial princes had the right to dictate which religion would be the official faith of their territory.
This Pope rejected the Peace of Westphalia in in the papal bull Zelo Domus Dei. This pontiff waged the Wars of Castro against the Duchy of Parma and was the first Pope to condemn Jansenism.
Peace of Westphalia
“cuius regio, eius religio” (KOO-yoos REJ-ee-oh, AYY-oos reh-LEE-jee-oh)
Innocent X [or Giovanni Battista Pamphili; prompt on Innocent] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Since this time period included a severe lack of food for horses, it may have prompted Karl Drais’s research into what became the proto-bicycle, the velocipede. For 10 points each:
Name this time period mostly including the spring and summer of 1816, which resulted in the worst famine of 19th-century Europe. It featured weather so bad that Mary Shelley and friends were forced to stay inside during a holiday, leading to her creating what became Frankenstein.
Violence broke out due to famine in this European country, which experienced 130 days of rain at one point, causing massive flooding of Lake Geneva.
Most historians believe the Year Without a Summer was primarily caused by this non-European event in 1815.
Year Without a Summer [or Eighteen Hundred and Froze to Death; prompt on Poverty Year; do not accept or prompt on “Little Ice Age”]
Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation]
the eruption of Mount Tambora [prompt on volcanic eruption; prompt on volcano] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Chicago-native Florenz Ziegfeld was inspired by the Folies-Bergère (foh-LEE-bair-JAIR) of Paris to begin his own show, the Ziegfeld Follies. For 10 points each:
Ziegfeld’s first taste of show-business came when his father opened a nightclub to cash in on this 1893 extravaganza, which sought to show a midwestern city’s recovery from an 1871 fire.
Ziegfeld’s first success came when managing Eugen Sandow, a pioneer of this activity. Angelo Siciliano changed his name to Charles Atlas after developing a system for performing this activity.
Ziegfeld housed the premiere of Show Boat in his namesake theatre on Broadway, which was financed by this man who published The New York Journal and lost a 1906 race for New York’s governorship.
World’s Columbian Exposition [or Chicago World’s Fair or Chicago World’s Exposition or World’s Fair: Columbian Exposition]
bodybuilding [prompt on exercise; prompt on calisthenics; prompt on weightlifting]
William Randolph Hearst &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This man is a member of the McCoy family, of Hatfield feud fame. For 10 points each:
Name this former Massey Energy CEO who was imprisoned for his role in the Upper Big Branch mine explosion and finished third in a May 2018 Senate primary behind Patrick Morrisey and Evan Jenkins.
Blankenship was seeking the Republican nomination to oppose Joe Manchin in November in this state.
In an April 2018 ad, Blankenship denounced the “China Family” of the current Senate Majority Leader, whom Blankenship referred to by this two-word nickname, referencing a 2014 incident in which narcotics were found on a boat near Colombia.
Don Blankenship [Donald Leon Blankenship]
West Virginia
“Cocaine Mitch” &lt;The above question is for the category Current Events US and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
Answer the following about private libraries in early colonial America, for 10 points each.
This clergyman bequeathed a generous library and a substantial part of his fortune to a college in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that led to it being named in his honor.
John Winthrop gave a copy of this Italian humanist’s Anglica Historia to Harvard College.
Historians have used this man’s library to dispute claims that he was secretly a Catholic. This militia captain of the Plymouth Bay colony founded the Massachusetts town of Duxbury.
John Harvard
Polydore Vergil
Myles Standish &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Ruy González de Clavijo (KLAH-vee-hoh), the Castilian ambassador in this city, recorded its continuous state of reconstruction. For 10 points each:
Name this Transoxianan (TRANS-ock-see-ANN-in) capital along the Silk Road that is home to a longstanding observatory and the Gur-e-Amir mausoleum.
This Turkic conqueror, who is buried in the Gur-e-Amir, ruled his empire from Samarkand. This “lame” ruler built pyramids of skulls after sacking Baghdad and Delhi.
This grandson of Timur built his namesake observatory in Samarkand. Under this monarch’s patronage, his astronomers published the incredibly accurate Zij-i Sultani star charts.
Samarkand [or Samarqand]
Timur the Lame [or Tamerlane]
Ulugh Beg [or Mīrzā Muhammad Tāraghay bin Shāhrukh] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
In 1936, Thomas Hart Benton finished painting murals depicting the social history of Missouri for the Missouri State House. For 10 points each:
Benton painted this Kansas City political boss watching a burlesque show. Harry Truman was dubbed the “senator from” this man because of his prominent role in Truman’s early career.
This man and his brother are depicted with other bandits in a section of the mural. This member of the “bushwhackers” was killed by Robert Ford.
The earliest scene shows a Frenchman trading with a member of this Indian nation. Members of this nation killed Kiowa (KYE-oh-wuh) villagers in the Cutthroat Gap massacre.
Tom Pendergast
Jesse James
Osage (OH-sayj) &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Władysław Reymont (vwah-DISS-waff RAY-mont) names this city’s airport, because Reymont set his novel <em>The Promised Land</em> in this city and described the rapid growth of its textile industry. For 10 points each:
Name this city in central Poland whose population has been overtaken by that of Kraków (CROCK-oof) due to deindustrialization. Its Piotrkowska (pyoh-truh-KOFF-skuh) Street is the longest in Poland.
Łódź happens to be the Polish word for this object, which is depicted on Łódź’s coat of arms. One of these objects is depicted beside a palm tree on the flag of Guam.
In 2017, Łódź hosted games in the group-stage of this sport’s world championship. This sport, which along with soccer is one of Poland’s national sports, is played by teams of six players on either side of a large net.
Łódź (wooj)
boat [or ship; or equivalents]
volleyball &lt;The above question is for the category Geography Europe and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This man was the target of an assassination attempt by Alexander Panagoulis, who, after being freed from prison, became a member of Parliament. For 10 points each:
Name this CIA-linked officer who overthrew King Constantine II in 1967. This dictator led the Regime of the Colonels until 1974.
The Regime of the Colonels ruled this country, where massive demonstrations against the junta occurred at Athens Polytechnic.
The junta collapsed after their sponsorship of a coup deposing this ethnarch of Cyprus ended in a Turkish counter-invasion known as Operation Atilla.
Georgios Papadopoulos
Greece [or Kingdom of Greece; or Hellenic Republic; or Elláda; or Hellas]
Archbishop Makarios III [or Michael Christodoulou Mouskos] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This man was exiled after the unauthorized Battle of Cabra, which angered Alfonso VI. For 10 points each:
Name this man who spent around six years serving the Moorish leader of Zaragoza, during which he frequently fought such Christian kingdoms as Aragón and also earned a nickname that probably means “The Lord.”
Despite spending many years working for the Muslims against the Christians, El Cid is remembered as a hero of this long, sprawling conflict in which Spain overthrew Muslim control. It basically ended in 1492.
In 1094, while technically working for Alfonso again, El Cid conquered and ruled this city, where he ran a pluralistic society that granted rights to both Christians and Moors. He was killed defending this city in 1099.
El Cid (el seed or el theeth) [or Rodrigo Díaz de Vivar; accept El Campeador]
Reconquista [prompt on Reconquest]
Valencia &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This man once invited four garbagemen on their morning shift to come into Élysée (ay-lee-ZAY) Palace for breakfast. For 10 points each:
Name this French president who launched the high-speed TGV (tay-jay-vay) rail and oversaw the last execution in France. This leader blamed Jacques Chirac (jock shee-ROCK) as a spoiler candidate after his 1981 defeat to François Mitterrand (fron-SWAH mee-teh-ROND).
Giscard d’Estaing’s election defeat was in part due to a scandal involving a gift of these objects he received from the brutal Central African Republic dictator Jean-Bédel Bokassa. Marie Antoinette’s reputation was tarnished after a trickster impersonated her to acquire some of these objects.
Giscard d’Estaing founded this now-defunct French political party in 1977 as an alternative to Jacques Chirac’s neo-Gaullists, and Nicolas Sarkozy led a similarly-named party.
Valéry Giscard d’Estaing (vah-lay-REE zhees-CAR day-STAN)
diamonds [or diamond necklaces]
The Republican Party [or The Republicans; or Parti républicain; or PR; or Les Républicains; or LR] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
As President Pro Tempore of the City Council, Wilson Frost was set to become this city’s first black mayor on the death of the incumbent but was literally locked out of the office because he was denied the keys. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose local politics were covered by journalists Mike Royko and David Axelrod. This city’s first female mayor, Jane Byrne, lived in the Cabrini-Green housing project for three weeks as a publicity stunt.
Mike Royko’s Boss is a scathing biography about this longtime Chicago mayor, whose death prompted the Frost incident. This mayor shouted profanity at Senator Abe Ribicoff after being accused of using “Gestapo tactics” during the 1968 DNC.
Jane Byrne and Daley’s son were defeated by this first black mayor of Chicago in the 1983 primary. This man’s “sunrise” campaign buttons inspired the design for Barack Obama’s 2008 campaign buttons.
Chicago
Richard Joseph Daley [do not accept “Richard Michael Daley”]
Harold Washington [Harold Lee Washington] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Answer the following about the Shih Tzu breed of dog, for 10 points each:
The Shih Tzu was probably developed in China from the breed of Apso named for this Asian city. This city is home to the Potala Palace, which was once the seat of a spiritual leader.
The Shih Tzu is currently known in China by a name referencing this one of China’s Four Beauties. This princess of Yue (y’WEH) was captured by King Fuchai of Wu, who was induced to make several poor decisions by her beauty.
When they were first imported into Britain, Lady Brownrigg named the Shih Tzu for these flowers. A book by Ruth Benedict about Japan was titled for this flower and “the sword.”
Lhasa
Xi Shi (shee shurr) [or Xi Yiguang]
chrysanthemum &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This scholar is credited with inventing the question mark. For 10 points each:
Name this Master of the Palace School of Aachen who according to Einhard was “the most learned man anywhere to be found.” This abbot’s letters to Hygbald provide an account of the Lindisfarne Raid.
Alcuin was a leader of this period of rebirth of scholarly activity in the court of Charlemagne. This period names a miniscule script developed during it.
After the defeat of Desiderius, this Benedictine abbot of Monte Cassino spent some time in Charlemagne’s court. This scholar’s contribution to the Carolingian Renaissance was the Historia Langobardorum.
Alcuin of York [or Ealhwine; or Alhwin; or Alchoin; or Flaccus Albinus Alcuinus]
Carolingian Renaissance
Paul the Deacon [or Paulus Diaconus; or Warnefridus; or Barnefridus; or Winfridus] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
The first of these wars involved an early form of chemical warfare when wells were poisoned at the Siege of Kirrha. For 10 points each:
Name these wars fought between the Amphictyonic (am-fik-tee-ON-ick) League and its enemies over disputes relating to the shrine of Apollo. The first Pythian Games were held to celebrate the end of the first of these wars.
Most of the Sacred Wars arose over violations of this city’s sovereignty. Much of this city’s wealth came from pilgrims traveling to visit its Oracle, properly known as the Pythia.
This monarch intervened in the Third Sacred War and acquired Thessaly after the Battle of Crocus Field. This king obtained hegemony of Greece in the Fourth Sacred War, which ended with his victory at the Battle of Chaeronea (KAIR-oh-NAY-uh).
Sacred Wars [accept First Sacred War or Cirraean War because all the clues are about that one specifically]
Delphi
Philip II of Macedon [prompt on Philip] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Golden neck rings known as torcs were found in the “Vix” (vee) example of these things, discovered in 1930 near the river Seine (sen), which are an important Bronze Age site. For 10 points each:
Name these places where ancient cultures often buried objects that were believed to be of use in the afterlife.
The items from the Vix Graves overlap the end of the Hallstatt culture and the early periods of this archaeological culture, named for a site beside Lake Neuchâtel (new-shah-TELL).
The most famous artifact found in the Vix Graves was the largest bronze example of these Grecian mixing vessels, which were used at a symposium to dilute wine with water.
graves [or tombs]
La Tene culture
krater [or crater] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
California Representative Richard T. Hanna was convicted for accepting 200,000 dollars in bribes from this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose KCIA spy agency attempted to gain influence in Congress by funneling bribes through Park Tongsun (tohng-sun) during the 1970s. This country’s President at the time was Park Chung-hee.
This Speaker of the House was brought down by the Koreagate scandal. After Spiro Agnew’s (SPEE-roh AG-noo’s) resignation, this politician was second-in-line to President Nixon until Gerald Ford’s appointment as Vice President.
As Speaker, Albert reached the highest political office of anyone from this state, whose two statues in the Capitol Building are of Sequoyah and Will Rogers. Prominent politicians from this state include Mary Fallin and Scott Pruitt.
South Korea [Republic of Korea or ROK; prompt on Korea]
Carl Albert
Oklahoma &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Before 2013, the smallest of this things ever created was made in the Bolivar state of Colombia. For 10 points each:
Name this objects. One of these objects marked with a map of Paraguay and the Spanish for “Has been, is, and will be” was a cause of the Chaco War.
The “has been, is, and will be” stamps created uproar in this country which Paraguay fought against during the Chaco War. This country lost its access to the sea during the War of the Pacific.
The world’s most valuable stamp, the one-cent Magenta, was also created in South America when supplies failed to arrive in this colony. The 1823 Demerara rebellion in this colony was led by Jack Gladstone against British plantation owners.
stamp
Bolivia
British Guiana [or Guyana] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Giuseppe Donizetti was invited to compose the first Ottoman national anthem during this period. For 10 points each:
Name this period of reform in the Ottoman Empire begun by the Rescript of the Rose Chamber. This period included the abolition of the millet system and the elimination of tax farming.
Shortly before the Tanzimat reforms were introduced, this elite infantry corps was disbanded. These privileged soldiers were recruited from Christian boys kidnapped under the devshirme system.
This Sultan disbanded the Janissaries and put down their revolt in the Auspicious Incident. This father of Abdulmejid I planned many of the Tanzimat reforms that were put into motion during his son’s reign.
Tanzimat (TAHN-zee-maht)
Janissaries
Mahmud II [prompt on Mahmud] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
In May 2018, archaeologists found the remains of a man who appears to have escaped the destruction in this city only to be crushed by an unrelated boulder. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman city whose remains were preserved after it was covered by ash from the eruption of nearby Mount Vesuvius. along with nearby Herculaneum (her-kyoo-LAY-nee-um).
One of the prominent primary sources for the destruction of Pompeii is a letter by this man, who described watching the eruption from a distance and told of the death of his uncle, a general who tried to rescue citizens.
This house near Pompeii contains some of the best-preserved examples of Roman painting, a series of frescoes which most scholars think depict initiation into a Bacchian cult.
Pompeii
Pliny the Younger [prompt on Pliny; do not accept or prompt on “the elder”]
Villa of Mysteries [or Villa dei Misteri] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Africa’s first peaceful democratic transfer of power occurred in this country, when Aden Adde lost the 1967 presidential elections to Abdirashid Ali Shermarke. For 10 points each:
Name this one-time failed state in the Horn of Africa where soldiers under Mohamed Farrah Aidid shot down a US Black Hawk helicopter during the 1993 Battle of Mogadishu.
The Somali Civil War began after Aidid and other warlords rose up against this Somali leader. This dictator’s regime declined after his defeat in the Ogaden War.
Somalia fought the Ogaden War against this Communist regime bolstered by thousands of Cuban troops and Soviet advisors. This Ethiopian junta was led by Mengistu Haile Mariam.
Somalia [or Federal Republic of Somalia; or Jamhuuriyadda Federaalka Soomaaliya; or Jumhūrīyat aṣ-Ṣūmāl al-Fidirālīyah]
Siad Barre [Mohamed Siad Barre]
Derg &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This program produced the <em>American Guide</em> series, a collection of guides to the states. For 10 points each:
Name this program of the Works Progress Administration, which put authors to work, producing things like the aforementioned guidebooks or oral histories of slavery by talking to still-living former slaves.
The Works Progress Administration was part of this much broader FDR program fighting the Great Depression.
The Federal Writers’ Project was a frequent target of Congressman Martin Dies, the chair of this investigative committee, which in a revived form, later heard testimony from men like Whittaker Chambers.
Federal Writers’ Project [or FWP]
New Deal
HUAC [or House Un-American Activities Committee or Special Committee on Un-American Activities] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
On several occasion, Polish commanders were inspired by Venice to carry out ceremonies of “Marriage to the Sea.” For 10 points each:
Jozef Haller carried out a “Marriage to the Sea” at Puck in Pomerania, which was granted to Poland by this treaty signed with Germany following World War I.
A “Marriage to the Sea” ceremony during World War II was carried out at Kolberg, which was the subject of a Nazi propaganda film about its defense during this conflict. The prolonged siege of Kolberg during this conflict was lifted by the Treaty of Tilsit.
In 1945, members of these Polish light cavalry units performed marriages to the sea on horseback at Mrzeżyno (murr-ZHEZH-no). By the time of World War II, they were armed with rifles rather than their typical lances.
Treaty of Versailles
Napoleonic Wars [or War of the Fourth Coalition]
uhlan [or uhlans] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Borders in this town are marked by stone lines with white crosses on every other stone. For 10 points each:
Name this town. Since the treaty of Maastricht, it contains a series of complex Belgian exclaves and Dutch counter-exclaves, with some of them only building-sized.
Thanks to this agreement, the Baarle borders are only a hassle for residents, and one can walk between countries without controls. Though Switzerland is not part of the EU, it is part of this agreement, which allows people to freely cross borders within its namesake “area.”
A notable absence in the Schengen area is this microstate between France and Spain, the only of the European microstates to retain border controls and not have de facto open borders. It is jointly ruled by a Spanish bishop and the French President.
Baarle (BAR-luh) [or Baarle-Hertog; or Baarle-Nassau]
Schengen Agreement
Andorra &lt;The above question is for the category Geography Europe and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Answer the following about the career of Lilburn Boggs, for 10 points each.
Boggs was governor of Missouri during this border conflict with Iowa that gained its name after the produce from three trees was cut down. It was resolved when the Sullivan line was drawn.
Boggs used Missouri Executive Order 44 to call for followers of this religion to “be exterminated or driven from the State if necessary for the public peace,” which led to many of them fleeing to Nauvoo, Illinois.
Boggs miraculously survived assassination after moving near to the Temple Lot in this city, which Joseph Smith argued would be the site of millennial city of Zion.
Honey War
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints [or Mormons]
Independence, Missouri &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Answer the following about St. Olga of Kiev, for 10 points each.
After the death of her husband Igor at the hands of the Drevlians, Olga got her revenge by killing the Drevlian leader, who was burned in one of these places. One of these places in Moscow known as the Sanduny was established by an actor during the reign of Catherine the Great.
Olga converted to Christianity in this Imperial city, where the emperor Constantine VII described her conversion in his De Ceremoniis.
This historical redaction by Nestor, which covers the ninth through twelfth centuries, is the main source for the biography of Olga.
bathhouse [or baths or banja or banya]
Constantinople [or Byzantium]
Primary Chronicle [or Tale of Past Years; or Pověstĭ Vremęnĭnyhŭ Lětŭ] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Though it is usually homemade, this beverage is served throughout its homeland in special “houses” named for it, where azmaris (az-MAR-ees) often perform tizita (TIZ-ee-tah) music. For 10 points:
Name this honey wine that is bittered with the powdered leaves of the buckthorn-like gesho plant. It is usually served in a long-necked flask called a berele (buh-ruh-LAY).
Tej is brewed in this country, where food is typically prepared in a thick stew called wat (waht) using a mixture of spices called berbere (bair-BAIR-ay or buh-ruh-BUH-ruh) and served atop spongy sourdough flatbread called injera (in-JAIR-uh).
Injera is made from this grain, which was domesticated in the Ethiopian highlands and is still a staple crop in both Ethiopia and Eritrea.
tej (TEJ) [or mes (MACE)]
Ethiopia [or The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia; or ye’Ītiyoṗṗya Fēdēralawī Dēmokirasīyawī Rīpebilīk]
eragrostis tef [or Williams’ lovegrass; or annual bunch grass] &lt;The above question is for the category Geography World and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Joanna II of this kingdom named Alfonso V of Aragon as her heir before disowning him in favor of Louis, Duke of Calabria. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom that was transferred from the Angevins (ANN-juh-vins) to the Trastámara dynasty on its conquest by Alfonso. This southern Italian kingdom was paired with Sicily for most of its existence.
Alfonso V was a strong ally of this leader of the League of Lezhë (LEH-zhuh), with whom he signed the Treaty of Gaeta. This subject of a biography by Marin Barleti led an expedition to Naples to secure the rule of Alfonso’s son Ferdinand I.
Alfonso was in diplomatic contact with this state, whose Emperor Yeshaq I proposed a royal marriage between his daughter and Infante Pedro. Medieval Christians believed this empire was the home of the mythical Prester John.
Kingdom of Naples [or Regno di Napoli; or Reino de Nápoles]
Skanderbeg [or George Castriot]
Ethiopia [or Abyssinia] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
These regiments rode ancestors of the modern Finnhorse into battle. For 10 points each:
Name this Finnish light cavalry commanded by Torsten Stålhandske (STOLE-hen-skuh) during the Thirty Years’ War. These cavalrymen got their name from a battle cry translated as “cut them down!”
This “Lion of the North” personally led the Hakkapeliitta at the Battle of Breitenfeld. This Swedish king lost his life at the Battle of Lützen.
The Swedish line of the House of Vasa ended when this daughter of Gustavus Adolphus assumed the throne on his death. This “Minerva of the North” abdicated and moved to Rome after converting to Catholicism.
Hakkapeliitta (HAWK-aw-peh-LEET-taw)
Gustavus Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf; prompt on Gustavus]
Christina [or Kristina Augusta Vasa; or Christina Alexandra] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Protests against this politician in 2018 began in response to his inadequate handling of the Indio Maíz (mah-EEZ) Biological Reserve forest fires. For 10 points each:
Name this Nicaraguan president whose IMF-recommended social security cuts sparked an expansion of the Indio Máiz protests. The protests turned deadly after this man ordered the army to quell them with live ammunition.
Ortega is a member of this socialist party that overthrew Anastasio Somoza in 1979. A Reagan administration scandal arose from illegal funding of the Nicaraguan Contras in order to topple this party.
This Vice President and First Lady of Nicaragua compared the protestors to “vampires in search of blood.” This woman’s political rise began when she defended Ortega from allegations that he had sexually abused her daughter.
Daniel Ortega [José Daniel Ortega Saavedra]
Sandinistas [or Sandinista National Liberation Front or FSLN or Frente Sandinista de Liberación Nacional]
Rosario Murillo Zambrana [prompt on Rosario; prompt on “La Chayo”] &lt;The above question is for the category Current Events Non-US and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
A predecessor to this company was founded by Edward Doheny of Teapot Dome scandal fame. For 10 points each:
Name this state-owned oil company that was formed from the Huasteca and El Aguila companies. This company’s formation was based in Article 27 of its country’s Constitution, granting all subsoil resource rights to the nation.
This Mexican president nationalized oil companies to form Pemex. This President also created agrarian collectives known as ejidos (eh-HEE-dose) and allowed Leon Trotsky to settle in Mexico City.
Cárdenas’s son Cuauhtémoc (k’wow-TAY-mock) ran against this political party in the presidential elections of 1988 and narrowly lost a clearly-rigged election. This party remained in power until Vicente Fox of PAN won the 2000 election.
Pemex [or Petróleos Mexicanos or Mexican Petroleum]
Lázaro Cárdenas del Río
PRI [or Institutional Revolutionary Party or Partido Revolucionario Institucional] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This man was convicted of the murder of Mary Phagan but lynched after governor John Slaton commuted his sentence to life in prison. For 10 points each:
Name this director of the National Pencil factory who was killed in Atlanta in 1915.
Eight years before the murder of the Jewish Frank, a race riot in Atlanta led to the disenfranchising of black voters; like in many Southern states, disenfranchisement took the form of an impossible “literacy test” combined with this sort of law exempting whites from the test.
Another change to Georgia’s election system in 1907 was the introduction of this practice by the Democratic Party. The Supreme Court allowed this sort of discrimination as late as 1935’s Grovey v. Townsend but ruled it unconstitutional in 1944’s Smith v. Allwright.
Leo Frank [Leo Max Frank]
grandfather clause
all-white primary [or answers indicating that only white voters were allowed to participate in primary elections to choose Democratic nominees] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
Answer the following about the career of William Pepperrell, the first American to be made a baronet, for 10 points each.
William Pepperell made his fortune in what is now Maine through selling lumber and this good. Crafts such as ketches were used in gathering this good.
During King George’s War, Pepperrell was placed in charge of four thousand troops who were charged with capturing this island fortress in Nova Scotia. The successful attempt was compared by one participant to a boisterous Harvard commencement.
Pepperrell was allowed to raise his own regiment, the 51st, but disbanded it after Louisbourg was returned following this treaty which ended the War of the Austrian Succession.
fish [or seafood]
Louisbourg (LOO-ee-burg)
Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (EX-la-shah-PELL) &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This party, reeling from corruption investigations, was effectively dissolved in 1994 and became the PPI. For 10 points each:
Name this political party which from 1976 to 1979 governed via the “historic compromise,” in which it received support from the Communists.
This man, a member of the Italian Christian Democracy party, was a two-time prime minister. His abduction and murder by the Red Brigades in 1978 severely weakened the historic compromise.
After Christian Democracy’s dissolution, the more right-wing party members joined Forza Italia, a party led by this controversial media tycoon and longest-serving postwar Italian prime minister.
Christian Democracy [or Christian Democrats; or Democrazia Cristiana; or DC]
Aldo Romeo Luigi Moro
Silvio Berlusconi &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This man remarked “I conquer to save; you to kill” to Henry Procter after halting a massacre of American prisoners following the Siege of Fort Meigs. For 10 points each:
Name this Shawnee warrior who led a multi-tribal confederacy with his brother Tenskwatawa (TEN-skwuh-TAH-wuh) from Prophetstown. This chief fought a namesake war with William Henry Harrison that climaxed at the Battle of Tippecanoe.
Tecumseh began his rebellion after Harrison negotiated this treaty with local tribes ceding three million acres around the Wabash River. This treaty was signed at a location named for the victor of the Battle of Fallen Timbers.
This soldier was credited with killing Tecumseh at the Battle of the Thames. This politician was later elected Vice President to Martin Van Buren largely on the strength of that fame.
Tecumseh [accept Tecumtha or Tekamthi]
Treaty of Fort Wayne
Richard Mentor Johnson &lt;The above question is for the category History American (pre-1865) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Answer the following about bad political advertisements, for 10 points each.
A 2017 commercial by this country’s version of the Labor Party featured leader Bill Shorten urging the hiring of home-grown employees, who were depicted as almost entirely white. This country’s current prime minister is Malcolm Turnbull.
A British commercial awkwardly depicted this man as a bike-riding chameleon, changing his colors to reflect all of Britain’s major political parties. This man had just replaced Michael Howard as party leader.
Canadian ads used such lines as “We did not make that up. We’re not allowed to make stuff up” and “Soldiers with guns. In our cities. In Canada,” as part of a failed campaign directed against this party leader. All of the ads against this man featured a drum beating in the background.
Commonwealth of Australia
David Cameron [David William Donald Cameron]
Stephen Joseph Harper &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Dionysius Exiguus was a Scythian monk in the sixth century. For 10 points each:
Exiguus is credited with developing this label for numbering years in relation to the number of years after the birth or conception of Jesus Christ. It was not widely used until the work of Bede (beed).
Exiguus developed a comptus, a calculation used for this purpose. Bishop Colman championed Iona’s (eye-OH-nuh’s) calculation for this purpose at this Synod of Whitby.
Much of the evidence about the life of Dionysius Exiguus comes from this author of the Institutiones. Jordanes’s Getica was intended as a shortened version of this statesman’s Gothic History.
Anno Domini [or AD; or BC; or Before Christ]
determining the date of Easter [or calculating the date of Easter; prompt on setting the calendar or other mentions of standardizing the calendar without mention of Easter]
Cassiodorus &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
The Fieschi (f’YES-kee) Letter claimed this man became a monk or someone known as “William the Welshman.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who was killed when a letter was sent to Berkeley Castle by his wife and her lover. That letter depended on a comma placement to either indicate “do not be afraid to kill” this man, or “do not kill” this man.
This woman, Edward II’s wife, probably ordered his death in concert with her lover, Roger Mortimer. She avoided being executed when Mortimer was deposed by Edward III.
Edward I, Edward II, and Roger Mortimer all battled this kingdom, whose leaders included Robert the Bruce and William Wallace.
Edward II [prompt on Edward]
Isabella of France [or Isabella the She-Wolf; prompt on the She-Wolf of France]
Kingdom of Scotland &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
This kingdom gave nobles a significant amount of power in the “Golden Liberty” system. For 10 points each:
Name this country, in which all nobles were considered to have equal legal status and controlled an elected king as well as the legislature, the Sejm (same).
This man was elected in 1573 as the first elected monarch of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, but reigned for only a few years before leaving the country. His namesake articles were a charter specifying that kings had to be elected by the nobles.
Henry III departed Poland to rule this country as the final monarch from the House of Valois (val-WAH).
Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth [or Kingdom of Poland; or Poland-Lithuania]
Henry III [prompt on Henry; prompt on Henrician Articles]
Kingdom of France &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
In the 16th century, the so-called Price Revolution took place in Europe as the amount of precious metals available caused high inflation. For 10 points each:
One potential cause of the price revolution was the discovery of large amounts of this precious metal at Joachimsthal (YO-ah-kimz-TALL). The English word “dollar” initially meant coins made from this material from Joachimsthal, called the Thaler (TALL-er).
Martín de Azpilcueta (az-peel-KWAY-tah), a thinker from this kingdom, was one of the first to notice the effect of specie imports on currency value. Azpilicueta’s close relative Francis Xavier was wounded defending this kingdom from invasion by Ferdinand II of Castille.
Jean de Malestroit (mal-ess-TWAH) claimed that one reason why inflation was higher in this country than others was because of its “Great Debasement,” in which the testoon was secretly released after a silver shortage.
silver
Navarre [or Navarra; or Nafarroa]
England [do not accept or prompt on “United Kingdom” or “UK” or “Great Britain”] &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
Malik Ambar was brought as a habshi slave to India from southern Ethiopia and served as chief minister of the state of Ahmadnagar. For 10 points each:
Malik Ambar has been suggested as the first ruler to use these weapons in conflict during Ahmadnagar’s war with the Mughals.
Malik Ambar used guerilla tactics or bargi-giri against this Mughal emperor and his son Jahangir during their conquests of Deccan. Malik Ambar’s tactics were later used by Shivaji against this “great” emperor’s grandson Aurangzeb.
Malik Ambar created the khair-e-jari, one of these things, in India, as part of his nahr system for Aurangabad. Malik Ambar’s system may have been inspired by the Persian system of qanats.
rockets
Akbar
aqueducts [or watercourses; or irrigation channels; or water distribution channels] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This map includes the first compass rose ever depicted on a map, though it is meant to be read with north at the bottom. For 10 points each:
Name this 1375 map of the known world by Cresques Abraham (KRESS-kuss uv-ruh-AHM), a member of the Majorcan cartographic school. This map depicts Mansa Musa holding a golden scepter and nugget in one corner.
This Flemish cartographer helpfully mapped constant bearing sailing courses to straight lines on his 1569 world map. This man’s namesake projection notoriously distorts the size of Greenland and Africa.
This Jesuit missionary drafted a map known as the “Impossible Black Tulip” at the request of the Wanli Emperor. This man was the first European to discover the Kaifeng (kye-FUNG) Jews.
Catalan Atlas [or Atles català]
Gerardus Mercator [or Geert de Kremer]
Matteo Ricci &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1400-1914 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Answer the following about the legal career of federal judge Irving Kaufman, for 10 points each.
Kaufman was the judge in the 1951 trial of this couple for passing nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union. He proclaimed their crime was “worse than murder” after their conviction.
This man, who served as a prosecutor in the case, said he personally advised Kaufman to impose the death penalty on the Rosenbergs. He also served as Joseph McCarthy’s chief counsel and represented Donald Trump during the businessman’s early career.
Kaufman ruled in favor of the publisher of Mad Magazine in an important 1964 case establishing that parodies of copyrighted works fell under “fair use” guidelines. The suit against Mad was primarily brought by this writer, who objected to parodies of his songs such as “A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody.”
the Rosenbergs [or Julius and Ethel Rosenberg]
Roy Cohn [Roy Marcus Cohn]
Irving Berlin [or Israel Beilin; accept Berlin v. E.C. Publications, Inc.] &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
Arguments over this case were reportedly so arduous that Justice Charles Evans Whittaker had a nervous breakdown and recused himself before retiring a few months later. For 10 points each:
Name this 1962 Court case that overturned Coleville v. Green by deciding that redistricting was not a political question. This case developed the “one person, one vote” standard for legislative apportionment.
This liberal Eisenhower appointee authored the majority opinion in Baker and developed the standard of “actual malice” in libel cases.
Baker arose from malapportionment in this state’s legislature. This state’s Butler Act led to the Scopes Trial in its town of Dayton.
Baker v. Carr [or Baker v. Carr]
William Joseph Brennan, Jr.
Tennessee &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1945-present) and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
Carlo Tresca was condemned to imprisonment for libel in his journal and fled to America. For 10 points each:
Tresca was an agitator and member of this syndicalist labor union with whom he helped to lead a campaign to free Arturo Giovannitti and Joe Ettor. This organization was led by “Big Bill” Haywood.
Tresca broke his association with the IWW after being arrested on a trumped-up murder charge at a miner’s strike at the Mesabi Range in this state, a major center of iron production.
Tresca was a member of the Commission headed by this public intellectual which investigated the claims made against Trotsky in the Moscow Trials. He outlined some of his ideas on journalism in a book responding to Walter Lippmann.
IWW [or Wobblies or International Workers of the World]
Minnesota
John Dewey &lt;The above question is for the category History American (1865-1945) and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This period was marked by hyperinflation and the rise of street violence from groups such as the Freikorps (FRY-core). For 10 points each:
Identify this period of German history that followed World War I and was named for the city where its constitution was written in 1919.
This vice-chancellor, appointed by Hindenburg to moderate Hitler, lost power in the German government after the Night of the Long Knives. He served the Nazi regime as ambassador to Austria and Turkey, leading to his conviction at Nuremberg.
At Nuremberg, von Papen’s defense pointed to this 1934 speech against the Nazis, which was the last public criticism of Hitler in Germany before World War II.
Weimar Republic
Franz von Papen
Marburg speech &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
Gennadi Gerasimov coined this phrase while speaking with reporters in Helsinki after a speech by Eduard Shevardnadze. For 10 points each:
Name this Gorbachev-era Soviet policy that allowed Warsaw Pact states to determine their own internal affairs. This foreign policy doctrine was jokingly named because it allowed Eastern Bloc states to do it “their way.”
The Sinatra Doctrine replaced this Soviet Premier’s doctrine of intervention. This successor to Nikita Khrushchev retroactively justified his invasion of Czechoslovakia with his namesake doctrine.
This East German leader was greatly disturbed by the Sinatra Doctrine, which had the effect of allowing East Germans to flee to the West via Hungary. This hardliner is depicted kissing Brezhnev on the mouth in an iconic photo.
Sinatra Doctrine
Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev [or Brezhnev Doctrine]
Erich Honecker &lt;The above question is for the category History European 1914-present and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
After the collapse of the Ayutthaya Kingdom, this king overthrew the temporary rule of the Burmese Konbaung dynasty over Siam. For 10 points each:
Name this only monarch of the Thonburi Kingdom.
Taksin was eventually killed by forces of the Rattanakosin kingdom under this dynasty. All of this dynasty’s rulers have used the regnal name Rama.
The Rattanakosin Kingdom was the first to rule Siam from this current capital of Thailand.
Taksin the Great
Chakri Dynasty
Bangkok &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
This man came to power after the convictions in his country’s so-called “Gurtel case.” For 10 points each:
Name this politician who was appointed the Prime Minister of Spain in June 2018.
Sánchez is a member of this left-wing Spanish political party, which last had a Prime Minister in José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (zah-pah-TAY-roh).
Sánchez was able to become prime minister after a vote of no confidence resulted in the removal of this party’s government, which was led by Mariano Rajoy (rah-HOY).
Pedro Sánchez [Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]
Spanish Socialist Workers’ Party [or Partido Socialista Obrero Español; or PSOE]
People’s Party [or Partido Popular; or PP] &lt;The above question is for the category Current Events Non-US and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
A detailed report on the defenses of this fortress was obtained by the Germans after the sinking of the <em>SS Automedon</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this city on the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula that was captured by the Japanese in early 1942. This city’s future Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew narrowly escaped the Sook Ching massacre during its occupation.
This British general surrendered Singapore to Yamashita Tomoyuki in the city’s Ford Motor Factory. With Jonathan Wainwright, this general stood immediately behind Douglas MacArthur as he signed the Japanese Instrument of Surrender.
This British admiral led Operation Tiderace, the plan to liberate Singapore following the Japanese surrender. This aristocrat was killed in 1979 when the IRA planted a bomb on his fishing boat.
Singapore
Arthur Ernest Percival
Louis Mountbatten [or Louis Francis Albert Victor Nicholas Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma; prompt on Prince Louis of Battenberg] &lt;The above question is for the category History World and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This Pope imprisoned his abdicated predecessor, Celestine V, because he feared that he would be installed as an Antipope. For 10 points each:
Name this Pope who issued the Unam sanctam bull, declaring “every human creature” to be subject to the Pope’s authority. In response, King Philip IV of France had this Pope arrested and beaten, leading to his death one month later.
Shortly after Boniface VIII’s death, Clement V, an ally of King Philip, was elected Pope and moved the court from Rome to this French city.
Because of his debts to this group, Philip had Pope Clement summon the Council of Vienne to convict its members of heresy. Despite an acquittal, Pope Clement disbanded this order anyway and had its Grandmaster Jacques de Molay burned at the stake.
Boniface VIII [or Benedetto Caetani; prompt on Boniface]
Avignon
Knights Templar [or the Templars; or the Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon; or the Order of Solomon’s Temple] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
According to Plutarch, members of this conspiracy took an oath involving human sacrifice and cannibalism. For 10 points each:
Name this conspiracy in the first year of the Roman Republic to restore the monarchy. Lucius Junius Brutus had his sons executed for their involvement in this conspiracy.
This conspiracy to overthrow Nero resulted in the forced suicide of Seneca the Younger and his nephew Lucan.
Sallust wrote a history of this conspiracy to overthrow the republic by a disgruntled aristocrat who had lost three consular elections. Cicero exposed this conspiracy during his tenure as consul.
Tarquinian Conspiracy [or Tarquin the Proud’s conspiracy]
Pisonian Conspiracy [or Piso’s conspiracy]
Catiline Conspiracy [accept Second Catilinarian Conspiracy; do not accept “First Catilinarian Conspiracy”] &lt;The above question is for the category History European to 1400 and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
One of the victorious generals at this battle was later beatified as the Saint Constable. For 10 points each:
Name this 1385 battle at which Nuno Álvares Pereira led the forces of King John I to secure his country’s independence from Castile.
King John I was the first member of this dynasty that received its name from a monastic order of which John I had been Grand Master. Other members include John I’s son, Henry the Navigator.
The House of Aviz ruled this Iberian country until 1580, when they were succeeded by the House of Braganza. Under their reign, this country captured Goa and colonized Brazil.
Battle of Aljubarrota (“ALL-zhoo-buh-RO-tuh”)
House of Aviz
Kingdom of Portugal [or Portuguese Republic] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Historian Eric Foner has described this period as “America’s Unfinished Revolution.” For 10 points each:
Name this period of American history which was ended by the election of Rutherford B. Hayes.
This harsh bill, which was vetoed by Abraham Lincoln, would have required an “Ironclad Oath” from the majority of a state’s population in order for that state to be readmitted to the Union.
The “Ironclad Oath” was a much more stringent alternative to this proposal made by President Lincoln, which set a generous requirement for voter allegiance in Southern states seeking readmittance to the Union.
Reconstruction
Wade–Davis Bill
ten percent plan &lt;AP, American History&gt;
Saint Maurice’s Theban Legion was supposedly martyred through this practice, the survivors of which received “the public disgrace of receiving barley rations,” according to Polybius. For 10 points each:
Name this punishment whose use was revived by Crassus. It involved mutinous soldiers being forced to draw lots, and then to beat the unlucky winners to death.
Crassus’s own death at the Battle of Carrhae unraveled the Triumvirate and led to civil war between Julius Caesar and this other member, who was defeated at the Battle of Pharsalus.
Julius Caesar was a leading figure of this political faction that pushed for the Cura Annonae and first rose with the Gracchi brothers. Pompey drifted toward the rival Optimates after the death of Crassus.
decimation
Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]
populares &lt;NR, European History&gt;
With a law enforcement officer from this state, Frederick Russell Burnham saved William Howard Taft and Porfirio Díaz from assassination during one summit. For 10 points each:
Name this state where Stephen F. Austin formed a Ranger Division that took down Bonnie and Clyde.
Texas Rangers captain Samuel Walker helped develop one of these weapons, with which he equipped his Texas Rangers. The inventor of these weapons displayed them at the Crystal Palace Exhibition.
The Texas Rangers fought the Bandit War over the border against radical followers of this Mexican president, who led the Constitutionalist Army.
Texas
Walker Colt revolver [do not accept “pistol”; prompt on partial answer]
Venustiano Carranza &lt;NR, American History&gt;
Armed only with a <em>sgian dubh</em> (“skee-un DOO”) and his bagpipes, Bill Millin participated in the D-Day landings in this garment. For 10 points each:
Name this Highland wool pleated garment with tartan patterns.
Hugh Trevor-Roper analyzed the “Highland myth” of clan tartans in The Invention of Tradition, a book edited by this historian with Terence Ranger. This Marxist historian wrote a trilogy on the ages of “Revolution,” “Capitalism,” and “Empire.”
This monarch revived the kilt and other Highland dress traditions on a visit to Scotland organized by Walter Scott, the first visit by a British monarch since Charles I.
kilts
Eric Hobsbawm
George IV [prompt on George] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Though this treaty laid out provisions for amnesty, thousands of <em>harkis</em> were murdered in its wake. For 10 points each:
Name this agreement between France and the FLN that granted independence to Algeria. It was fiercely opposed by the OAS.
The Algerian War brought down the Fourth Republic and led to this man’s election as President. Though he had led Free France during World War II, he was the target of assassination attempts by French soldiers in the OAS.
De Gaulle sought to maintain French control over this naval base near Oran, which included underground facilities for atomic testing. It was the site of a controversial World War II British attack on the Vichy French fleet.
Évian Accords
Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle
Mers El Kébir &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This man’s ancestors ruled as kings of Benin’s port city of Allada. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Haitian Revolution who was captured by deception and deported to France before independence was achieved.
This successor of Louverture officially declared the independence of Haiti and crowned himself emperor. He ordered the massacre of all white French who remained on the island in 1804.
This leader of the free coloreds supported André Rigaud and Jean-Pierre Boyer in the War of the Knives against Louverture. After Dessalines’ murder, this man split with Henri Christophe and ruled the southern Republic of Haiti.
Toussaint Louverture
Jean-Jacques Dessalines
Alexandre Pétion &lt;AJ, World History&gt;
This author wrote a work that exalts Northumbria over Mercia and describes the conflict over the correct date of Easter. For 10 points each:
Name this “Venerable” man who is known as “the father of English history” for his An Ecclesiastical History of the British People, written in 732 AD.
This Welsh monk wrote a biography of Alfred the Great and helped the king in his translation of Boethius.
Alfred’s palace school was modeled on Charlemagne’s, which was led by this English scholar from York.
Venerable Bede
Asser
Alcuin of York [or Ealhwine; or Alhwin; or Alchoin] &lt;JC, European History&gt;
The term for this system derives from the Spanish verb meaning “to entrust.” For 10 points each:
Name this New World labor system that entrusted natives to Spaniards to protect and convert, though in practice it was simply slave labor. It was based on the adelantado system of the Reconquista.
Emperor Charles V attempted to reform the encomienda system with these decrees that unsuccessfully provided for its humane regulation and gradual abolition.
The Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas lobbied for the New Laws and argued for the rights of natives in a debate against Juan de Sepulveda in this city.
encomienda system
New Laws [or Leyes Nuevas]
Valladolid (“vah-yah-doh-LEED”) &lt;NR, World History&gt;
This regiment was named for their habit of idling their engines near a destination, then gliding to it silently, making an eerie sound. For 10 points each:
Give the nickname of this all-female aviation regiment led by Yevdokia Bershanskaya, which fought along the Eastern Front at the Battle of the Caucasus.
The Night Witches hailed from this country, which was invaded by Nazi Germany in Operation Barbarossa and defeated them in the extremely bloody Battle of Stalingrad during World War II.
Lydia Litvyak, the first female fighter pilot to shoot down an enemy plane, was killed in this battle. The Germans brought Tiger and Panther tanks but were forced to withdraw in this largest tank battle in history.
“Night Witches” [or Nachthexen; or Nochnye vedny; or 588th Night Bomber Regiment; or 46th “Taman” Guards Night Bomber Aviation Regiment]
USSR [or Soviet Union; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or CCCP; prompt on Russia]
Battle of Kursk [anti-prompt on Battle of Prokhorovka] &lt;JC, European History&gt;
The interior minister of this country sparked outrage when he suggested a curfew for “little ethnic shops,” suggesting that they were “meeting places for hellraisers.” For 10 points each:
Name this country where Matteo Salvini serves as both interior minister and deputy prime minister. Matteo Renzi and the Democratic Party suffered huge losses in this country’s March elections.
Salvini’s stance on immigration and refugees led him to declare “victory” in June when Spain agreed to take the 629 refugees aboard this rescue ship after Italy refused them entry.
The other deputy prime minister of Italy is Luigi Di Maio, who succeeded comedian Beppe Grillo as leader of this anti-establishment political party.
Italy
MS Aquarius
Five Star Movement [or Movimento 5 Stelle; or M5S; prompt on Five Star] &lt;GA, Current Events&gt;
Suspicion that this organization’s employees were being used to campaign for Democrats led to the Hatch Act in 1939. For 10 points each:
Name this New Deal agency that built projects like Midway International Airport and the Griffith Observatory. This agency and the CCC directly hired unemployed men, unlike the PWA.
This man founded the Works Progress Administration. This former Secretary of Commerce acted as a messenger between FDR and Winston Churchill.
Hopkins feuded with this rival head of the Public Works Administration, who criticized “make-work” work relief. When Marian Anderson was blocked from performing at DAR Constitution Hall, this Secretary of the Interior allowed her to perform at the Lincoln Memorial.
Works Progress Administration [or WPA]
Harry Hopkins
Harold L. Ickes (“ICK-iss”) [do not accept “Harold M. Ickes”] &lt;AJ, American History&gt;
During these wars, the Spanish government was only kept afloat by the infusion of hundreds of thousands of pounds from the Rothschilds. For 10 points each:
Name this series of civil wars over the Spanish throne. After the death of the absolutist Ferdinand VII, his supporters launched the first of these wars to install his brother as King.
The Third Carlist War started in the aftermath of generals under Juan Prim deposing a queen of this name, the daughter of Ferdinand VII. Another Spanish queen of this name sponsored Columbus and ruled with Ferdinand.
The Carlist movement found strong support in Basque country because of the Basque desire to regain these regional charters of autonomy that allowed Catalans and Basques to function under their historical local laws.
Carlist Wars
Isabella II [or Isabella I]
fueros &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This document’s exclusion of the Habsburgs caused Duke Rudolf IV to forge the <em>Privilegium Maius</em>, a document supposedly issued by Frederick Barbarossa to give Austria special privileges. For 10 points each:
Name this document issued by Charles IV von Luxemburg at the Diet of Metz, which laid out a system in which seven prince-electors would vote for the Holy Roman Emperor.
Faced with only daughters, Charles VI promulgated this document allowing women to succeed to the Archduchy of Austria and the Habsburg dominions, thought not to the office of Holy Roman Emperor.
Despite Charles’s efforts to have the Pragmatic Sanction recognized by other powers, many reneged and fought the War of Austrian Succession against this Archduchess who surrendered Silesia to Frederick the Great.
Golden Bull of 1356 [prompt on Golden Bull]
Pragmatic Sanction of 1713
Maria Theresa &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This case began on a tip that a suspect accused of bombing Don King’s house was hiding out in the petitioner’s home. For 10 points each:
Name this 1961 Supreme Court case that overturned a woman’s conviction for possession of pornography, which had been discovered in a warrantless search. It was grounded in the Fourth Amendment.
Mapp v. Ohio incorporated this rule earlier formulated in Weeks v. US. This rule declared that illegally-obtained evidence cannot be used in court, and it was expanded into the “fruit of the poisonous tree” doctrine.
The exclusionary rule can be considered this kind of rule. These “preventative” rules include the Miranda rights and are not actually granted by the constitution, but are used to protect an actual constitutional right.
Mapp v. Ohio
exclusionary rule
prophylactic rule &lt;WD, American History&gt;
This vital supply artery was later supplanted by the Ledo Road. For 10 points each:
Name this road beginning at Lashio and ending at Kunming that was used by the British to transport supplies to Chiang Kai-shek. After it was lost, the US airlifted aid over the Himalayas to China.
The Burma Road was built during Second Sino-Japanese War, which became one theater of this global conflict.
This American general commanded US troops in the China Burma India Theater, opened the Ledo Road after taking back Burma, and advised Chiang Kai-Shek, whom he derisively called “Peanut.”
Burma Road
World War II
Joseph Warren Stilwell [or “Vinegar Joe” Stilwell”] &lt;NR, World History&gt;
The International Date Line was moved in 1995 so the entirety of this country would be on the same side. For 10 points each:
Name this Pacific island nation led by President Taneti Mamau, the site of World War II’s Battle of Tarawa.
The name “Kiribati” is a modified pronunciation of this British explorer’s name. This man lends his name to one of its island chains was the first European to describe Tarawa Atoll after a 1788 visit on his ship Charlotte.
During its colonial period, Kiribati’s Christmas Island was used by the United Kingdom to test these fusion weapons pioneered by Edward Teller shortly before it acceded to the Partial Test Ban Treaty.
Republic of Kiribati (“KEE-rih-boss”)
Thomas Gilbert
hydrogen bombs [or H-bombs; prompt on nuclear weapon; do not accept “atomic bombs”] &lt;WD, World History&gt;
This organization operated the London Steelyard until it was shut down by Queen Elizabeth I. For 10 points each:
Name this German trading confederation that dominated the Baltic until its monopoly on shipbuilding and the grain trade was broken by the Dutch.
The “Queen of the Hansa” was this Imperial Free City located in Schleswig-Holstein. It’s not Kiel, but it names a canal that links the Trave River with the Elbe River.
Lübeck’s power declined after its defeat in this 16th-century Danish civil war that brought about the Reformation in Denmark. It is named after Christian of Oldenburg, a supporter of Christian II.
the Hanseatic League [or the Hansa]
the Hanseatic City of Lübeck
the Count’s Feud [or the Count’s War] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Lesser-known allies with the United States in these clashes were Sweden and the Kingdom of Sicily. For 10 points each:
Name this series of early 19th-century conflicts against pirates off a namesake coast. President Thomas Jefferson authorized naval involvement in these wars, the first American military crossing of the Atlantic.
An American ship with this name commanded by Andrew Sterrett fired the opening shots of the First Barbary War in 1801. The original ship to bear this name was run aground and burned on Lake Champlain in 1777.
The Enterprise defeated a ship named after this city in the first battle of the Barbary Wars. In 1803, Stephen Decatur set fire to the USS Philadelphia after it struck a reef and was captured in this city’s harbor.
Barbary Wars
USS Enterprise
Tripoli &lt;WD, American History&gt;
After the Spanish Coup of July 1936, this man became the leader of the Spanish Army of Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who led the Nationalists to a victory in the Spanish Civil War and ruled over Spain until 1975.
With his victory in the Spanish Civil War, Franco defeated this government, led by Manuel Azaña. It was proclaimed in 1931 after the deposition of Alfonso XIII.
The formation of a coalition government with the far-right CEDA party during the Second Republic era led socialists and anarchists to organize a 1934 general strike in this province of Spain, during which miners marched and captured the capital.
Francisco Franco Bahamonde
Second Spanish Republic [prompt on the Spanish Republic]
Asturias &lt;AJ, European History&gt;
Unsatisfied with their relationship with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the ISI withdrew their support and turned to this group. For 10 points each:
Name this fundamentalist Islamic organization once led by the one-eyed mullah Mohammed Omar.
The Taliban arose from this country’s mujahideen, who had fought against the 1979 Soviet invasion.
This Tajik fighter known as the “Lion of Panjshir” led the Northern Alliance against the Taliban until he was assassinated by al-Qaeda in September 2001.
The Taliban
Afghanistan
Ahmad Shah Massoud &lt;NR, World History&gt;
A Franciscan with this surname published a monumental history of Mexico titled <em>Indian Monarchy</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this surname of a friar who led an organization that ordered people to wear brightly colored sanbenitos.
Though he descended from some of these people, Torquemada pushed for discrimination against these ex-Jews with Limpieza de Sangre statues.
Torquemada pushed for this edict of expulsion against Jews who refused to convert. This decree is named for a palace in Grenada.
Torquemada [accept Juan de Torquemada or Tomás de Torquemada]
conversos [prompt on marranos, judaizantes, New Christians, or tornadizos]
Alhambra Decree &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This group led “The Longest Walk,” a walk across the US to fight for the protection of tribal sovereignty. For 10 points each:
Name this Native American interest group. Its protest efforts included taking over the Bureau of Indian Affairs building, as well as taking control of Wounded Knee, South Dakota.
The takeover of this island by the Indians of All Tribes led the AIM to be increasingly targeted by the federal government. This island in the San Francisco Bay was home to a prison that closed in 1963.
The federal trial for participants in the Wounded Knee Massacre occurred in this city. The American Indian Movement was created in this city in 1968.
American Indian Movement [or AIM]
Alcatraz Island [or Alcatraz]
Minneapolis, Minnesota &lt;AJ, American History&gt;
The divide-and-conquer strategy employed by this man was initially utilized by the French agent Joseph François Dupleix. For 10 points each:
Name this victor at the Battle of Plassey who defeated the immensely wealthy Siraj ud-Daulah to secure Bengal.
Robert Clive was one of the foremost agents of this company, which was superseded by the British Raj after the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857.
Clive won the Battle of Plassey by bribing this commander of Siraj ud-Daulah to defect and propping him up as the new Nawab of Bengal. This man’s name is synonymous with “traitor” in Bengali and Urdu.
Robert Clive, 1st Baron Clive [or Clive of India]
British East India Company [or Honourable East India Company; or the John Company]
Mir Jafar &lt;NR, European History&gt;
One of these people stole a woman’s letter about her husband’s obsession with baths. For 10 points each:
Name these people, originally wheat collectors who also worked as a secret service. Rankov suggests they were based out of the Castra Peregrina.
This successor of Trajan and creator of the frumentarii built a namesake wall in Britain.
Hadrian suppressed this rebellion. Its namesake, Simon, established the independent Jewish state of Nasi (“nah-SEE”) after separating from Judea.
frumentarii
Hadrian
Bar Kokhba (“COKE-bah”) rebellion [or Third Jewish Revolt or Third Jewish-Roman War or Second Revolt of Judea; prompt on partial answer] &lt;JC, European History&gt;
An explosion during a battle named for this place was heard more than one hundred miles away in Pensacola. For 10 points each:
Name this fort garrisoned by escaped slaves that was obliterated when a heated cannonball landed in its powder magazine. Andrew Jackson’s destruction of this fort marks the beginning of the First Seminole War.
The Negro Fort was located in this state, which is where most of the fighting in the Seminole Wars occurred. Spain ceded this state to the US by the terms of the Adams–Onís Treaty.
Seminoles descend from this Native American confederacy, whose Red Stick faction fought a civil war with a Lower faction led by William McIntosh. Andrew Jackson ended their namesake war at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend.
Negro Fort [or Fort Gadsden]
Florida
Creek Confederacy [or Muscogee] &lt;NR, American History&gt;
This event led to the revocation of UN Resolution 3379, determining that “Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination.” For 10 points each:
Name this Palestinian uprising that began at the Jabalia refugee camp and resulted in the Madrid Peace Conference, which grew into the Oslo I Accord.
Much of the fighting during the First Intifada occurred in the West Bank and this region on the Egyptian border.
In 2000, this opposition leader at the time sparked the Second Intifada by visiting the Temple Mount.
First Intifada [prompt on Intifada]
Gaza Strip
Ariel Sharon &lt;AJ, World History&gt;
In part due to a protest targeting this city, R. B. “Iron Heel” Bennett’s discredited government lost 95 seats in the House of Commons. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was marched on by hundreds of relief camp workers led by “Slim” Evans in the “On-to-[this city]” trek, which was the largest protest of its country’s depression era.
A few years prior, Britain left the Gold Standard for a second time because of a run on the pound precipitated by this strike of Royal Navy sailors protesting large naval pay cuts at a Scottish port.
In 2014, members of this profession began the longest strike in South African history against platinum companies. Arthur Scargill led the NUM, a union of this profession, in a strike against Margaret Thatcher to prevent colliery closures.
Ottawa
Invergordon Mutiny
miners [or mining; accept platinum miners or coal miners] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
A candidate in this election transformed his campaign organization into a group that lobbied against the passing of NAFTA. For 10 points each:
Name this election in which future Reform Party candidate Ross Perot received nearly 19 percent of the popular vote but zero electoral college votes. In this election, Bill Clinton defeated incumbent president George H. W. Bush.
This man was the Reform Party candidate in the 2000 Presidential election. He described a “culture war” in his speech at the 1992 Republican National Convention.
This Massachusetts Senator won the New Hampshire Democratic Primary in 1992, but ultimately lost to Bill Clinton. He said “I’m not trying to play Santa Claus” in regard to his proposed tax policy.
1992 US Presidential Election
Patrick “Pat” Buchanan
Paul Efthemios Tsongas &lt;AJ, American History&gt;
Germany recognized this polity as a British protectorate in exchange for receiving the island of Heligoland. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose Afro-Shirazi Party overthrew Sultan Jamshid bin Abdullah and massacred Arabs shortly after receiving independence.
Zanzibar’s first president, Abeid Karume, agreed to unite his country with this leader’s to form Tanzania. This leader outlined his African socialist concept of ujaama in the Arusha Declaration.
After this country invaded the Tanzanian region of Kagera, Nyerere marched forces into Kampala and deposed its dictator Idi Amin.
Zanzibar
Julius Nyerere
Uganda &lt;NR, World History&gt;
All male citizens were mandated to perform this program except for the firstborn sons of the Eurypontid and Agiad houses. For 10 points each:
Name this rigorous education and military training program employed by Sparta that included the paídes, paidískoi, and hēbōntes stages for boys starting at the age of 7 until they turned 29.
Promising agoge students were inducted into the secret Krypteia, where they were instructed to kill the strongest and best of this servile population that primarily worked the land and supported the Spartan economy.
The agoge was the primary method of instilling obedience to this oral Spartan constitution, which is sometimes said to have been given by the oracle of Delphi.
agoge (“ah-go-gay”)
helots
Great Rhetra &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This country’s first king chose steel instead of gold for his crown to symbolize the bravery of his soldiers. For 10 points each:
Name this Eastern European country, ruled by King Carol II until the Second Vienna Award led to his overthrow and replacement by the Conducător Ion Antonescu with the help of the Iron Guard.
After Antonescu entered World War II by joining his country with the Axis, this Romanian city became the target of an allied bombing campaign called Operation Tidal Wave to destroy its oil fields and refineries.
As the Red Army marched into Romania, this King launched a coup against Antonescu and joined the Allies. The Soviet post-war occupation forced his abdication and exile until the overthrow of Nicolae Ceaușescu.
Kingdom of Romania
Ploiești (“ploy-ESHT”)
King Michael I [or Mihai I] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This man spared the city of Tyana after having a vision of the long-dead Apollonius of Tyana telling him to spare the city. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman emperor who established the cult of Sol Invictus and earned the nickname “Restorer of the World.”
Aurelian pulled Rome out of the Crisis of the Third Century by defeating Tetricus of the Gallic Empire and this queen of the Palmyrene Empire, whom he had paraded through Rome in golden chains during his triumph.
After defeating Carinus at the Battle of the Margus, this emperor officially ended the Crisis of the Third Century. He ordered the last great persecution of Christians and formed the Tetrarchy before retiring to his palace at Split.
Aurelian
Zenobia
Diocletian &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This enterprise’s original financier, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, drowned near the Azores returning from Newfoundland. For 10 points each:
Name this “Lost Colony” founded by Walter Raleigh whose colonists disappeared without a trace during the first Anglo-Spanish War.
This artist and Governor of Roanoke made watercolor sketches of the island and its native Algonquians. On his return from England, this man learned his granddaughter Virginia Dare had disappeared like the rest of the settlers.
One Virginia senator with this surname nicknamed “of Roanoke” led the Tertium Quids and dueled Henry Clay. Another Virginia politician with this surname served as the first Attorney General.
Roanoke Colony
John White
Randolph [accept John Randolph or Edmund Randolph] &lt;NR, American History&gt;
Bandits of this ethnicity known as klephts carried out pro-independence insurgencies from the mountains. For 10 points each:
Name this Mediterranean ethnicity whose members like Alexander Ypsilantis sparked a revolution against the Ottoman Empire in the Peloponnese.
Ypsilantis belong to this influential class of Istanbul Greeks that took its name from the neighborhood where the Ecumenical Patriarch resided. An era named for these people marks their rule of the Danubian Principalities.
The large Greek population still living in Anatolia after World War I was forcibly exchanged with Turks in Greece by the terms of a convention signed in this city during negotiations to replace the Treaty of Sèvres (“SEV”).
Greeks
Phanariots
Lausanne &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Due to his attempt to record everything that was known, this person became the patron saint of computers and the Internet. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was described by Charles Montalembert as “the last scholar of the ancient world.” His most famous work was a twenty-volume encyclopedia called Etymologiae.
Isidore’s brother Leander of Seville influenced this group’s King Reccared to convert from Arianism to Catholicism. This group held a total of 30 church councils in their capital at Toledo.
The Visigothic Kingdom was overthrown by this dynasty’s general Tariq ibn Ziyad. This was the second caliphate formed after the death of Muhammad, and it was eventually overthrown by the Abbasids.
Isidore of Seville
Visigoths [prompt on Goths]
Umayyad Caliphate &lt;AJ, European History&gt;
This organization was led by a guerilla nicknamed “Red Jesus.” For 10 points each:
Name this former rebel group that fought ORDEN death squads during its country’s civil war. Since the Chapultepec Peace Accords, it has competed against the ARENA party for a majority in the legislature.
This proponent of liberation theology and recently canonized saint was murdered while officiating mass at a hospital chapel on the orders of ARENA leader Roberto d’Aubuisson (“DAHB-wee-sawn”) in 1980.
Óscar Romero is from this country, where the FMLN currently holds the presidency. This Central American country fought the Soccer War with neighboring Honduras.
FMLN [or Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front]
Óscar Romero
El Salvador &lt;AJ, World History&gt;
The founder of this empire claimed descent from Bilal, the first muezzin (“moo-EH-zin”). For 10 points each:
Name this empire whose origins are chronicled in the Mandinka Epic of Sundiata.
Travellers to the Mali Empire like Ibn Battuta were told the epic of Sundiata by these people. They retained the knowledge of the oral tradition, and are often referred to as “praise singers.”
Ibn Battuta’s visit to the Mali Empire is recorded in his account of this title, a general Arabic term for a journey or an account of the journey. Ibn Jubayr wrote another of these accounts during the Third Crusade.
Mali [or Manden]
griots [or jeli]
rihla &lt;AJ, World History&gt;
Certain photographs have come to symbolize not only specific moments, but entire political movements. For 10 points each:
A man carrying a shopping bag stands alone in front of four tanks in a photo depicting this location in Beijing.
A photograph of a young man protesting the Vietnam War by placing flowers in the guns of soldiers was taken in front of this building.
A photo taken in this state shows a woman in a long dress standing calmly in front of two police officers. She was protesting the death of Alton Sterling, who was killed in this state.
Tiananmen Square
the Pentagon [or the Department of Defense; or the DoD]
Louisiana &lt;MT, Other Arts (Photography)&gt;
Name some commodities from their appearances in European history, for 10 points each.
For thousands of years, this good was transported from the Baltic Sea to Southern Europe along a trade route that followed the Vistula and Dnieper Rivers.
Because of its extensive kaolin deposits, the town of Meissen near Dresden became the first European site of production of the hard-paste type of this material, which was developed by Johann Friedrich Bottger at the behest of Augustus the Strong.
In the 16th century, Bohemia emerged as a leading producer of this good using a new formula of potash and chalk. Byzantine blowers of this material fled to Venice and made the Murano district a center for this good.
amber [accept Amber Road]
porcelain [or ceramics; or china]
glass &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Brazil’s acquisition of these armaments began a three-way arms race between it, Argentina, and Chile. For 10 points each:
Name these armaments that the British revolutionized with their Dreadnought class. Theodore Roosevelt sent a “Great White” group of these armaments around the world during his presidency.
This Great Depression-era Chief Justice who ran against Woodrow Wilson in 1916 negotiated controls on fleet sizes at the 1921 Washington Naval Conference.
This future fleet admiral served as an ensign aboard the USS Kansas as part of the Great White Fleet. He was criticized for leaving San Bernardino Strait undefended during his most famous victory at Leyte Gulf.
battleships [or warships]
Charles Evans Hughes
William Frederick “Bull” Halsey Jr. &lt;NR, American History&gt;
During this man’s first ministry, he introduced the secret ballot to Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this Liberal statesman who pioneered modern campaigning while standing for the Midlothian constituency. As a result of that campaign, this man replaced his rival Benjamin Disraeli as Prime Minister.
During his second ministry, Gladstone ordered the bombardment of a port in this country, purportedly to protect its European residents from Ahmed Urabi’s forces but actually to prop up the regime of Khedive Tewfik.
This politician split the Liberal Party by forming the Liberal Unionists to stop Gladstone’s attempts at passing an Irish Home Rule bill. This man introduced municipal socialism to Birmingham while serving as its mayor.
William Ewart Gladstone
Egypt
Joseph Chamberlain [prompt on Chamberlain] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Domingo Paes (“pies”) and Fernão Nunes visited this kingdom during its height under the reign of Krishna Deva Raya. For 10 points each:
Name this medieval empire whose ruins are located at Hampi in Karnataka. This empire collapsed after the Gilani brothers turned on its army at the Battle of Talikota.
Vijayanagara grew out of the ashes of the Hoysala Empire, which collapsed under the repeated invasions of this northern sultanate centered at the location of modern-day India’s capital.
The Wadiyar Dynasty ruled this successor state to Vijayanagara. Hayder Ali and Tipu Sultan, who seized power in this kingdom, deployed rockets that would later inspire William Congreve in three namesake wars against the British.
Vijayanagara Empire [or Karnata Empire; or Kingdom of Bisnegar]
Delhi Sultanate
Kingdom of Mysore &lt;NR, World History&gt;
Though he devised the strategy of encirclement that won this battle, Max Hoffman was largely ignored by the contemporary press. For 10 points each:
Name this crushing German victory of World War I in which 92,000 Russian troops were captured in East Prussia. This battle’s victors named it as vengeance for a Teutonic defeat that had occurred 500 years prior.
This Field Marshal, who names a famous zeppelin, commanded German troops at the battle. He later became President of the Weimar Republic and signed the Enabling Act of 1933, awarding dictatorial powers to Adolf Hitler.
This Russian general at Tannenberg was a bitter enemy of his co-commander Paul von Rennenkampf, whom he accused of failing to aid him at the Battle of Mukden. He shot himself rather than report the defeat to Nicholas II.
Second Battle of Tannenberg [or Battle of Tannenberg; do not accept “First Battle of Tannenberg” or “Battle of Grunwald”]
Paul von Hindenburg
Aleksandr Vassilievich Samsonov &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Elizabeth F. Ellet published three voluments on <em>The Women of</em> [this event]. For 10 points each:
Name this conflict in which “Molly Pitchers” served on the battle lines. Martha Washington and Abigail Adams held down the homefront during this conflict.
Abigail Adams frequently corresponded with a woman who [emphasize] married into this family and wrote a three-volume history of the American Revolution as well as an anti-Federalist pamphlet under the pseudonym “A Columbian Patriot.” Her brother-in-law Joseph died at the Battle of Bunker Hill.
Abigail Adams and Martha Washington are linked to this movement led by the Daughters of Liberty, who advocated boycotting British goods with self-made substitutes.
American Revolutionary War [or equivalents]
Warren family [or Mercy Otis Warren; or Joseph Warren]
Homespun Movement &lt;NR, American History&gt;
Animal cruelty is bad. Answer some questions that would horrify Peter Singer, for 10 points each.
These animals carried howdahs and turrets into combat. Hannibal’s personal one of these animals was named “Surus” and probably originated from Syria.
At the Battle of Thymbra, Cyrus the Great re-deployed these animals from his baggage train to intimidate the larger Lydian horse cavalry. A US Army experiment to form a corps of these animals was abandoned during the Civil War.
The Megarians used the flaming variety of these animals as a countermeasure to Antigonus II Gonatas’s war elephants, who bolted in terror.
elephants
camels [or the United States Camel Corps]
war pigs &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Lin Zexu (“dzuh-shoo”) referred to this substance as “foreign mud” and wrote an open letter to Queen Victoria condemning its trade. For 10 points each:
Name this poppy-based drug whose import caused two wars between Britain and China.
After diplomatic envoy Harry Parkes and his delegation were arrested and tortured, Lord Elgin ordered troops to burn down this complex.
Following the Second Opium War, this anti-foreign mother of the Tongzhi (“TUNG-jurr”) Emperor became regent. She later blocked the Hundred Days’ Reform and voiced support for the Self-Strengthening Movement.
opium
the Old Summer Palace [or Imperial Gardens; or Yuanming Yuan; prompt on Summer Palace]
Empress Dowager Cixi (“tsuh-SHEE”) &lt;NR, World History&gt;
This president helped put down a strike by the Boston Police while he was governor of Massachusetts and allegedly won a bet with the two-word rejoinder “you lose.” For 10 points each:
Name this “silent” president who took office after the death of Warren G. Harding.
Coolidge signed into law this act that granted citizenship to Native Americans. This act was named for the New York representative who sponsored it.
One of the most powerful voices in Coolidge’s cabinet was this man, his Secretary of the Treasury. This philanthropist founded the National Portrait Gallery and funded the University of Pittsburgh.
Calvin Coolidge
Snyder Act [or Indian Citizenship Act of 1924]
Andrew Mellon &lt;AP, American History&gt;
This kingdom alternated between kings named Frederick and Christian from 1513 to 1972. For 10 points each:
Name this Scandinavian country once led by Margaret I, who orchestrated the Kalmar Union. Though she ruled from Roskilde (“ROSS-keel-ih”), the country’s capital was later moved to Copenhagen.
Born with the name Boguslaw, this adoptive son of Margaret I adopted a more Nordic-sounding regnal name when she put him on the throne of the Kalmar Union. He later introduced the Sound Dues.
The Kalmar Union was dissolved by the Treaty of Malmö in 1520 when this noble declared independence in response to the Stockholm Bloodbath and founded a Swedish royal dynasty.
Denmark
Eric of Pomerania [or Erik af Pommern, Eric VII, Eric III, or Eric XIII; prompt on Eric]
Gustavus Vasa [or Gustav I or Gustav Eriksson; prompt on partial answer; do not accept “Gustavus Adolphus”] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This king was nicknamed the “Builder King” for commissioning projects such as the Royal Greenhouses of Laeken. For 10 points each:
Name this Belgian monarch who financed those projects with profits generated from his ruthless exploitation of the Congo Free State with the help of the rubber quota-enforcing Force Publique.
Leopold’s sister Charlotte briefly served as Empress Carlota of this country when it was ruled by her husband, the younger brother of Franz Joseph of Austria.
Thought to be the illegitimate son of Empress Carlota, this French general names the fortifications constructed after the Maginot Line fell. In the “This Was Their Finest Hour” speech, Churchill declared “what [this general] has called the Battle of France is over.”
Leopold II
Mexico [or Second Mexican Empire]
Maxime Weygand (“veh-GAWND”) &lt;NR, European History&gt;
One work sees this strategy emerging “as a series of attempts to deal with the consequences of the World War II Faustian bargain.” For 10 points each:
Name this Cold War policy, contrasted with détente (“day-TONT”) and rollback, that aimed to block the further spread of Communism.
This cold warrior formulated the policy of containment in the Long Telegram and presented it to the public in the “X Article” in Foreign Affairs magazine.
This Yale professor distinguished between symmetrical and asymmetrical containment in his influential Strategies of Containment. This historian won a Pulitzer for his biography George F. Kennan: An American Life.
containment
George F. Kennan
John Lewis Gaddis &lt;NR, American History&gt;
Inhabitants of this country believe that its original inhabitants were the mysterious Vazimba people, who were possibly pygmies. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom that was first united by King Radama I. After the death of his wife Ranavalona I, their son Radama II paved the way for this kingdom to become a French protectorate by signing the Lambert Charter.
The Sorabe (“SO-rah-BAY”) alphabet for Malagasy was developed by Madagascar’s Antemoro ethnic group, whose ancestors arrived on the island from this holiest city in Islam around the 15th century.
Madagascar’s castes included the Andriana nobles, Andevo slaves, and these free commoners. Two wars named for France and this caste resulted in the replacement of the Merina monarchy with direct French colonial control.
Madagascar [accept Merina Kingdom or Kingdom of Imerina]
Mecca
hova &lt;NR, World History&gt;
Answer the following about 1968, for 10 points each.
In April 1968, this civil rights leader was assassinated while at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis to support striking sanitation workers.
In May 1968, this group including Daniel Berrigan stole files from a Maryland draft board and burned them in a parking lot with homemade napalm.
This 1968 NASA mission launched the first men to orbit the moon, one of whom took the Earthrise photograph. Its members read from the Book of Genesis in a famous Christmas Eve broadcast.
Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]
Catonsville Nine
Apollo 8 [prompt on partial answer] &lt;NR, American History&gt;
The eighteen-year-old Alexander the Great commanded the left wing at this battle, but fled into exile shortly after. For 10 points each:
Name this 338 BC battle in which a Macedonian army under Philip II annihilated the Sacred Band of Thebes on its way to crushing an allied Greek force.
After the Battle of Chaeronea, Philip II founded a unified Greek “League” named for this city, which is found on a namesake isthmus.
Sparta refused to join the League of Corinth, sending only this reply to Philip II when he threatened that he would raze the city if he brought his army into Sparta.
Battle of Chaeronea
Corinth
“If” [or “An”] &lt;NR, European History&gt;
Bandeirantes (“bun-day-RON-chiss”) in this country led expeditions to capture and enslave natives. For 10 points each:
Name this South American country where slavery was not abolished until 1888 by Princess Isabel, daughter of Pedro II.
Runaway Brazilian slaves lived in these Maroon communities. King Gunga Zumba ruled one of these communities with thousands of fugitives at Palmares (“pow-MAH-riss”).
These mostly Afro-Brazilian slum settlements trace back to bairros africanos, which were originally settled by freed slaves migrating to the cities.
Brazil
quilombos [or mocambos]
favelas &lt;NR, World History&gt;
This man was introduced to anarchism through the Sila Club. For 10 points each:
Name this Polish-American anarchist who carried out an assassination at the Pan-American Exposition in 1901.
After Czolgosz shot McKinley, this senator lamented “now that damned cowboy is president,” referring to Teddy Roosevelt. This powerful political boss of turn-of-the-century New York State had earlier tried to get Roosevelt out of his way by nominating him for Vice President.
Roosevelt himself narrowly avoided assassination in this city when a copy of his speech in his jacket stopped John Shrank’s bullet. The German immigrants to this Wisconsin city began its prominent brewing industry.
Leon Czolgosz (“LEE-on CHOLE-goss”)
Thomas C. Platt
Milwaukee &lt;NR, American History&gt;
Being rolled up in a carpet can be sexy, deadly, or politically inconvenient. For 10 points each:
According to Plutarch, this Egyptian queen seduced Julius Caesar by smuggling herself into his quarters in a carpet carried by Apollodorus the Sicilian.
Unwilling to shed royal blood, this Mongol Khan killed Caliph Al-Musta’sim by wrapping him in a rug and trampling him with horses during the 1258 Sack of Baghdad.
Worried that this leader’s country would surrender to the Allies, Hitler ordered Otto Skorzeny to kidnap this leader’s son, who was rolled up in a carpet and taken to Mauthausen.
Cleopatra VII Philopator
Hulagu Khan
Miklós Horthy (“MEEK-lohsh HOR-tee”) &lt;NR, European History&gt;
The initial codename for this beach was Jelly, but Winston Churchill insisted on a more dignified name “for a beach on which so many men might die.” For 10 points each:
Name this D-Day beach where the Royal Winnipeg Rifles landed in the first wave under the command of Major General Rod Keller.
Juno Beach was assigned to this British Dominion, whose troops also comprised the core force of the Dieppe Raid. Its Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King led this North American country through World War II.
This British aristocrat planned the Dieppe Raid and was later appointed First Sea Lord, a position his father briefly held during World War I. Harold Wilson allegedly believed there was an MI5 plot to install this man in his place.
Juno Beach
Canada
Louis Francis Albert Victor Nicholas Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma &lt;NR, European History&gt;
This man wrote that mercury was used to model China’s waterways in the Mausoleum of Qin Shi Huangdi, a finding corroborated by the site’s unusually high mercury levels. For 10 points each:
Name this scholar who opted for castration over suicide as punishment for defending Li Ling in order to finish his magnum opus.
Sima Qian wrote the Records of the Grand Historian during the reign of Wudi, an emperor of this dynasty. This dynasty’s first ruler Liu Bang was a peasant who rose to the throne after the fall of the Qin Dynasty.
Sima Qian modeled his work on this text from the Five Classics that tersely chronicles the State of Lu and is traditionally ascribed to Confucius.
Sima Qian (“suh-mah ch’YEN”) [prompt on partial answer; do not accept “Sima Guang”]
Han Dynasty
Spring and Autumn Annals [or Chunqiu; prompt on Annals; do not accept or prompt on “Analects”] &lt;NR, World History&gt;
During this man’s rule, families had to pay a tax known as the “wasted bullet” to kebele (“kuh-bay-lay”) militias to receive the bodies of their relatives. For 10 points each:
Name this dictator who massacred thousands in the Qey Shibir to stamp out the EPRP and MEISON parties.
Mengistu led this country, where the communist Derg overthrew Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974.
Mengistu’s regime defended this namesake disputed region against a Somali invasion with massive aid from the Soviet bloc, putting the US in the odd position of supplying Marxist Somalia.
Mengistu Haile Mariam
Ethiopia
Ogaden War &lt;AJ, World History&gt;
A salesman of this product hired a man to call him “Your Royal Highness” in traveling shows and claimed that his family was killed by an angry tribe of Himalayan yak herders who made him their prince. For 10 points each:
Name these products sold by a company wrongly named for the Kickapoo Indians, as well as by Clark Stanley, who demonstrated its production by publicly decapitating and boiling snakes at a certain event.
Stanley marketed his snake oil at this event that featured the White City and H. H. Holmes’s “Murder Castle.”
This popular soda was originally sold as a patent medicine that could supposedly cure morphine addiction, impotence, and headaches. It was created by John Pemberton and did originally contain cocaine.
patent medicine [or nostrum; accept fake medicine or equivalents; prompt on medicine; anti-prompt (i.e., ask “can you be less specific?”) on snake oil]
Chicago World’s Fair [or World’s Columbian Exposition; or 1893 World’s Fair]
Coca-Cola [or Coke] &lt;JC, American History&gt;
In a section on this campaign, Orderic Vitalis wrote “I can say nothing good about this brutal slaughter. God will punish him.” For 10 points each:
Name this campaign begun in response to the murder of Robert de Comines, Earl of Northumbria, that saw mass slaughter and burning from the Humber to the Tees to subjugate York and rebels in support of Edgar Ætheling.
This Norman king ordered the Harrying of the North in order to consolidate his control over England after defeating Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Hastings.
A king of Scotland with this name, the brother-in-law to Edgar Ætheling, frequently warred with England over Northumbria. Another Scottish king of this name was nicknamed “the maiden” for dying unmarried.
Harrying of the North
William the Conqueror [or William I; or William the Bastard; prompt on William]
Malcolm &lt;NR, European History&gt;
While he’s best known for his work on Jews and Basques, Spanish anthropologist Julio Caro Baroja (“bah-ROH-hah”) spent five years studying these people in the 1950s as part of an exploration mission. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose liberation is sought by a group founded by El-Ouali (“ell-WAH-lee”) Mustapha Sayed. Supporters of these people’s independence established the Gdeim Izik protest camp in 2011.
The Sahrawi people live in this contested, phosphate-rich region. Once controlled by Spain, it is now contested by the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic and Morocco.
The other major African possession that Spain relinquished during the era of decolonization is this country, the only African country where Spanish is an official language. Its mainland region is called the Río Muni.
Sahrawi people [or Saharawi; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, Western Saharans]
Western Sahara [or Sahara Occidental or aṣ-Ṣaḥrā’ al-Gharbīyah or Taneẓroft Tutrimt]
Equatorial Guinea [or Republic of Equatorial Guinea; or República de Guinea Ecuatorial] &lt;Geography, EL&gt;
This family made a number of strategic marriages with the wealthy Maleinos family in the mid-10th century to cement its power among the <em>dynatoi</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this family of Cappadocian origin that gained the throne when one of its members married the Empress Theophano. Another of its members launched two rebellions against the Macedonian dynasty.
The power of the Phokas family was broken by the second Byzantine emperor of this name, who was known as the “Bulgar-slayer” for killing and blinding thousands of Bulgars after the Battle of Kleidion.
Emperor Nikephoros Phokas’s accomplishments include the Siege of Chandas, at which he reconquered this region from an emirate of Andalusian origin that conquered it in the 820s. After the Fourth Crusade, this Greek region was seized by Venice and ruled as the Duchy of Candia for four centuries.
Phokas family (The two men referenced are Nikephoros Phokas and Bardas Phokas.)
Basil II [or Basil the Bulgar-Slayer or Basileios Boulgaroktonos]
Crete [or Kriti] &lt;Continental post-600 History, WA&gt;
This man was vilified as a “lily-livered sinical rogue” and “demi-human archbeast” by various newspapers for his public opposition to Christianity. For 10 points each:
Name this vociferous proponent of Deism who released the first part of The Age of Reason while imprisoned in Paris, believing that he was about to be executed.
Britain’s leading 19th-century secularist was a man with this surname who published The Reasoner and coined the words “secular” and “jingo.” A Prime Minister of New Zealand with this surname banned the testing of nuclear weapons within his country’s territory and sent troops to fight in Vietnam.
Many people attribute the rise in secularism in Britain to the publication of this author’s works on the origins of humanity, such as The Descent of Man. This naturalist sailed the world on the Beagle.
Thomas Paine
Holyoake [accept George Holyoake or Keith Holyoake]
Charles Darwin &lt;British/CW History, WA&gt;
In 1984, this country lost control of the Siachen Glacier after its neighbor executed Operation Meghdoot, turning the region into the world’s highest battlefield at over 20,000 feet above sea level. For 10 points each:
Name this country that fought the Kargil War in Kashmir with its western neighbor.
This 1972 agreement was meant to prevent hostilities between India and Pakistan by establishing the Line of Control as the de facto border. It was followed up by the Delhi Agreement, which exchanged prisoners.
The Simla Agreement was negotiated by Indira Gandhi and this Pakistani President and founder of the Pakistani People’s Party, who was later executed by the government of Mohammad Zia ul-Haq.
India [or Republic of India]
Simla Agreement [or Shimla Agreement]
Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto [prompt on Bhutto] &lt;World History, NB&gt;
A Gothic-language Bible called the <em>Codex Argenteus</em> dated to the 6th century AD was taken from Prague by this country as war booty. For 10 points each:
Name this country that also seized the world’s largest illuminated manuscript, the Codex Gigas, during the same war. In another conflict, this country stole more than 200 paintings from the Warsaw Castle, among other treasures, and dumped thousands more in the Vistula River.
Sweden stole the Codex Argenteus and Codex Gigas during this long and destructive war that claimed the life of its warrior king Gustavus Adolphus.
Sweden looted Warsaw Castle during this period of conflict in the 1650s, which began with a Cossack uprising led by Bohdan Khmelnytsky. Russia alternatively invaded and defended Poland during this conflict.
Sweden [or Kingdom of Sweden; or Konungariket Sverige]
Thirty Years’ War
The Deluge [or Potop] &lt;Continental post-600 History, WA&gt;
The Ngoc Lu (“nock loo”) example of these objects contains three concentric patterns of abstract human and animal figures, and contains a multi-pointed star at its center. For 10 points each:
Identify these objects, examples of which are the most significant artifacts from the Dong Son culture of Vietnam. Neolithic chalk examples of these objects were unearthed near the village of Folkton in England.
The Dong Son drums are made of this alloy of tin and copper, which was the primary metal for making weapons and ritual objects in the Shang (“shong”) and Zhou (“joe”) eras.
Dong Son and other northern Vietnamese cultures are characterized by the production of this good and the creation of bronze artifacts as their major economic activities. The “Champa” variety of this good was introduced to China during the Song dynasty, helping fuel a population expansion.
drums [accept Folkton Drums; prompt on musical instruments or cylinders]
bronze
rice [or Oryza sativa] &lt;Archaeology, WA&gt;
This agreement limited military capacity on the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain to two vessels for each of the signing powers. For 10 points each:
Name this agreement between the United States and Britain that was signed in the wake of the War of 1812.
The Rush–Bagot Treaty also provided for joint US–British occupation of this territory. This territory was later the subject of calls for “54° 40′ or fight!”
The later Treaty of 1818 established the border between the United States and Canada as the 49th parallel from the Rocky Mountains to this natural feature.
Rush–Bagot Treaty
Oregon Territory
Lake of the Woods &lt;US History, NB&gt;
The Legion of Marat was created to police anti-revolutionaries in this city during the War in the Vendée (“von-DAY”). For 10 points each:
Name this city in which mass drownings were carried about via “republican marriages” in which men and women were tied together and drowned. The Peace of Alais (“ah-LESS”), signed shortly after the 1627 Siege of La Rochelle, altered a law named for this city.
The drownings at Nantes were perpetrated by this man who was attacked by Gracchus Babeuf before his execution following the fall of Maximilien Robespierre.
Babeuf, who led a pamphlet war against Carrier, was himself executed after leading the Conspiracy of the Equals against this government. This five-person government replaced the Committee of Public Safety.
Nantes (“nahnt”) [accept Edict of Nantes]
Jean-Baptiste Carrier
Directory [or Directorate or Directoire] &lt;Continental post-600 History, EL&gt;
An 1833 agreement between these two states created above-ground and below-ground borders, leading to a 1998 Supreme Court case that transferred 90 percent of an island once owned by one of these two states to the other. For 10 points each:
Name these two states. Governors George Pataki and Christine Todd Whitman feuded over that island situated between these two states.
That 1998 dispute resulted from New York’s artificial enlargement of this island, since at its original size, this island could not handle the amount of buildings needed for its purpose as the largest immigration inspection center in the US.
New Jersey and New York earlier feuded over New Jersey’s northwest corner due to the conflicting boundary decisions made by these two men, the two Lord Proprietors of the Province of New Jersey. Name either.
New Jersey AND New York
Ellis Island
Sir George Carteret OR Lord John Berkeley &lt;US History, EL&gt;
The Spartan constitution prevented the city from issuing these things, insisting on use of iron rods instead to discourage wealth accumulation. For 10 points each:
Identify these things that were first created in classical antiquity in the kingdom of Lydia. Ancient Greek examples of things were typically units of drachmai.
Beginning in the Second Punic War and ending during the 3rd century AD, the Romans issued this standard silver coin. Most medieval Islamic empires named their coins after this Roman one.
In 312 AD, Diocletian replaced the gold aureus with this other gold coin as part of an effort to fight currency debasement, as this coin was worth nearly 300,000 denarii. A later name for this coin, the bezant, refers to its use throughout the Byzantine empire.
coins [prompt on currency]
denarius [prompt on dinar by asking “what is the original Latin word?”]
solidus &lt;Ancient History, WA&gt;
In this industry, plantations known as <em>engenhos</em> (“en-ZHEN-yoos”) employed mills called <em>trapiches</em> (“tra-PEE-shees”). For 10 points each:
Identify this industry whose derivative molasses was shipped to New England and manufactured into rum as part of the triangle trade.
Brazilian sugar production expanded rapidly with capital influx from this colonial power that occupied Pernambuco in 1630 as part of its “Great Design” plan to expand its territory.
This island became the center of Caribbean production under the pioneering of Englishman James Drax. This island was the center of the British slave trade until it was abolished.
sugar [accept sugar cane]
the Netherlands [or Holland; or Dutch Republic or United Provinces]
Barbados &lt;World History, NB&gt;
Foreign students educated in this city-state were known as <em>trophimoi</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this militant Lacedaemonian (“LASS-uh-duh-MOH-nee-un”) city-state whose children were educated in the agoge (“ah-GOH-gay”).
As part of the agoge, Spartan boys were encouraged to perform this specific action, though they were severely punished if caught; this was done to prepare future soldiers for when this action might be necessary.
This politician became a trophimos but fell out of favor after supposedly seducing the Spartan queen Timonassa, forcing him to flee to Persia. Later, he fled to Sparta again after being charged with sacrilege following the failure of one of his initiatives, which was commanded by Nicias.
Sparta
stealing food [accept clear equivalents; prompt on stealing or theft by asking “what is being stolen?” and accept more specific answers like stealing bread]
Alcibiades &lt;Ancient History, NB&gt;
In a book based on his experience with the Nixon campaign, Kevin Phillips postulated that this concept existed for the Republican Party by citing such evidence as demographic shifts across the Sun Belt. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that is also mentioned in the title of a similar book based on demographic arguments published by John Judis and Ruy Teixeira (“ROO-ee tuh-SHARE-uh”) in 2002.
Phillips worked on the Nixon campaign in this year, in which he correctly predicted a close race against Hubert Humphrey; Philips also correctly predicted the giant Republican landslide four years later.
In identifying “breaching” the South as the key to Republican electoral success, Philips pointed to the GOP winning Tennessee in 1920 thanks in part to this slogan used by Warren Harding’s campaign. This three-word campaign slogan promised to restore the US to its pre-World War I state.
emerging majority [accept The Emerging Democratic Majority or The Emerging Republican Majority; prompt on partial answers]
1968
return to normalcy [prompt on partial answer] &lt;US History, WA&gt;
Answer the following about the illustrious history of the coconut tree, for 10 points each.
Houses built with roofs made from coconut leaves called makuti have historically been common places of residence on the western coasts of this large body of water, which touches the Swahili Coast.
Since the Middle Ages, this country’s Dhofar (“THOUGH-far”) region has been both the Middle East’s prime coconut tree growing location and its main source of frankincense, as confirmed by Ibn Battuta’s Riḥla. Its ruling house of al-Said once controlled an Indian Ocean empire that included Zanzibar.
Florida’s Palm Beach County got its name when the Providencia, a ship full of coconuts sailing from this modern-day country, wrecked on its shores. This country’s first post-independence president was Eric Williams.
Indian Ocean [or Arabian Sea]
Oman [or Sultanate of Oman]
Trinidad and Tobago &lt;World History, WA&gt;
Polish revolutionary Karl Radek said, “this bright page in the history of the Russian Revolution will always be bound up with” this man. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was called the “Organizer of Victory” for developing the Red Army. This man was exiled to Mexico by Joseph Stalin before being murdered with an icepick.
Radek claimed that this rebellion led to the question of whether there would be a “dictatorship of the Party or dictatorship of the class.” The New Economic Policy was developed partly in response to this sailor revolt.
Radek pointed to August 4, 1914, as the collapse of this organization, which was officially dissolved in 1916. This organization fractured at the Zimmerwald Conference due to its failure to develop a coherent anti-war stance.
Leon Trotsky
Kronstadt Uprising [or Kronstadt Rebellion]
Second International [prompt on International or Socialist International] &lt;Continental post-600 History, EL&gt;
According to legend, Anna Strong hung a black petticoat and different numbers of white handkerchiefs to relay information about people performing this action. For 10 points each:
Name this practice for which James Jay developed the “sympathetic stain” invisible ink. Nathan Hale was hanged for this practice.
George Washington’s most organized espionage effort was the development of this spy group that was helped by Hercules Mulligan and his spy Cato. Abraham Woodhull and Robert Townsend were this group’s main spies.
The Culper Ring’s army contact was a general with this last name who led the successful raid on Fort St. George. A later congressman with this last name proposed Missouri’s admittance to the union as a free state in an amendment to the Missouri Compromise.
espionage [or spying for the United States during the Revolutionary War; prompt on steganography or cryptography]
Culper Ring
Tallmadge [accept Benjamin Tallmadge or James Tallmadge; accept Tallmadge Amendment] &lt;US History, EL&gt;
The Procede (“proh-SEH-deh”) system, introduced by Carlos Salinas in 1993, introduced individual land ownership into these things, effectively aiming to eliminate them. For 10 points each:
Name these communal land units that were reintroduced to Mexico by Lazaro Cardenas through large scale expropriation of the land of elite landowners.
This Mexican revolutionary and promulgator of the Plan of Ayala was a proponent of the ejido system.
Salinas legalized the privatization of ejidos as part of his economic liberalization program, which facilitated Mexico’s entry into this 1994 agreement with the US and Canada to reduce trade barriers.
ejidos (“eh-HEE-dohs”)
Emiliano Zapata
NAFTA [or North American Free Trade Agreement] &lt;World History, EL&gt;
The FHIR (“fire”) standard aims to improve interoperability between these systems. For 10 points each:
Identify these systems. In 2018, the Department of Veterans Affairs finalized a deal with Cerner, which is the second-largest provider of these systems in the US behind Epic.
The security of information from EMRs is regulated by this 1996 law, whose requirements were extended by the HITECH act of 2013. In 2017, Memorial Health Systems was fined 5.5 million dollars for violating this law by improperly accessing the records of over 100,000 patients.
A May 2018 report by this Cabinet department found that its Health Agency sites violated HIPAA by failing to implement correct EMR security protocols. It encompasses the Army, Navy, and Air Force.
electronic medical records systems [or electronic health records or EMRs or EHRs; prompt on partial answers such as medical records or health records; do not accept or prompt on “health systems” or “hospitals” or “health practices”]
HIPAA (“HIP-uh”) [or Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996]
United States Department of Defense [or DoD or USDoD] &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
The speakers of Tsakonian dialects, the linguistic descendents of Laconic dialects, have been largely marginalized through this country’s language standardization. For 10 points each:
Name this country where late-18th-century revolutionaries created the conservative dialect katharevousa in order to speak a language more like their ancient forefathers, who spoke the koine (“koy-NAY”) dialect.
This adjective names the form of common Greek speech that became the country’s standard language via reforms passed in 1982. This adjective also refers to a form of ancient Egyptian writing used by common people, as opposed to priests or royal scribes.
The language reform was carried out during one of the three terms that this founder of the PASOK party served as Prime Minister. When elected in 1981, he became Greece’s first socialist prime minister.
Greece [or Republic of Greece; or Hellenic Republic; or Greek]
Demotic [or Dimotiki or dēmotikós]
Andreas Papandreou [prompt on Papandreou; do not accept or prompt on “George Papandreou”] &lt;Continental post-600 History, WA&gt;
People who complied with these things were granted “right of escort” in the Holy Roman Empire. For 10 points each:
Identify these inconveniences. The term “robber barons” originally referred to German nobility and knights who imposed these things in a lawless manner, prompting a hundred cities along the Rhine to form a league to oppose them.
Robber barons would construct “toll” examples of these fortifications in order to guard key areas and make sure that tolls were actually collected. Neuschwanstein (“NOYSH-von-shtyne”) is a German one of these fortifications.
The influence of Robber barons in the Rhineland peaked during the lengthy interregnum that ensued after Innocent IV (“the fourth”) had this emperor deposed. Elsewhere, this emperor issued the Constitutions of Melfi.
tolls [or Maut; prompt on taxes or river taxes or fees or tribute]
castles [or Schloss]
Frederick II [or Friedrich II; prompt on Frederick or Friedrich] &lt;Continental post-600 History, WA&gt;
Answer the following related to the Taungoo (“TOWN-goo”) Empire, an early modern state in Southeast Asia, for 10 points each.
The Taungoo Empire and its successor states, including the Konbaung dynasty, were both based out of this modern-day country later governed from Mandalay by the British.
The Taungoo sent aid to the Sri Lankan kingdoms of Kandy and Kotte to help them deal with the advances of this country, which lost its holdings in Calicut in 1526. This country’s forces captured Malacca in 1511.
The westernmost territories of the Taungoo were in this modern-day state in eastern India, which was once a princely state governed from Kangla Fort. This state’s native brand of small ponies were ridden by horsemen who developed the modern rules of polo and threw poisoned arambai darts against their foes.
Burma [or Myanmar]
Portugal [or Kingdom of Portugal]
Manipur &lt;World History, WA&gt;
The imitation of Eastern Han designs by Baekje (“pek-cheh”) kings in this country is illustrated by the <em>seoksu</em> (“suck-soo”) animals buried in King Muryeong’s (“moo-ryung’s”) tomb, which dates to its Three Kingdoms Period. For 10 points each:
Name this non-China country that has designated many popular archaeological sites, such as the Cheomseongdae (“chum-sung-day”) Observatory built by Silla (“shill-lah”) kings, as National Treasures.
The National Treasures include a copy of this text carved into over 80,000 wooden blocks stored at Haeinsa (“heh-een-sah”) temple. Many Buddhist masters, such as a 7th-century man who visited monks in Harsha’s empire, were given this text’s name as an honorary title.
Among the treasures are the Seokguram (“suck-goo-rahm”) grottoes, where many of these objects are found, just like in China’s Longmen (“long-mun”) grottoes. Several of these objects exemplifying Gandharan art were dynamited in 2001 on the orders of Mullah Omar.
South Korea [or Republic of Korea; or Hanguk or Daehan Minguk; do not accept or prompt on “North Korea” unless something crazy with unification happens]
Tripitaka [or Tipitaka or Daejanggyeong or Sānzàng; prompt on Three Baskets]
Buddha statues [or equivalents; accept Daibutsu; prompt on Buddha or butsu or Bamiyan Buddhas or statues or sculptures] &lt;Archaeology, WA&gt;
Belgian journalist Paul Lévy supposedly came up with the design for this symbol after viewing a statue of the Virgin Mary. For 10 points each:
Identify this non-national flag that has a blue background and a circle of twelve golden stars in the middle.
It’s not Cyprus, but the design of this European country’s flag is partly inspired by that of the EU flag, as it has a blue background, a gold map of the country itself at the middle, and several white stars above it.
This architecture firm proposed an EU flag design based on barcodes, since it would enable new member countries to be added to the symbol easily. This firm run by Rem Koolhaas created the “Image of Europe” exposition as part of its research on how to rebrand Europe.
European flag [or flag of Europe; or flag of the EU; or flag of the European Union]
Kosovo [or Republic of Kosovo; or Republika e Kosovës]
OMA [or Office of Metropolitan Architecture] &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
This man often paraphrased political philosopher Eric Voegelin with his slogan “Don’t immanentize the eschaton (“ESS-kuh-tawn”),” referring to what he considered unattainable ideological utopias. For 10 points each:
Name this conservative and one-time mayoral candidate for New York whose residence of Sharon, Connecticut, became the center of the founding of the Young Americans for Freedom.
Citing the influence of publications such as The Nation and The New Republic in bringing about the New Deal, Buckley founded this conservative magazine in 1955.
Buckley was also the host of this talk show for over 30 years, on which he once told Noam Chomsky that he might “smash [him] in the goddamn face” in reference to his debate with Gore Vidal a year earlier.
William F. Buckley, Jr.
National Review [prompt on NR]
Firing Line &lt;US History, AK&gt;
This region became a hotbed of nonconformism in the 18th century, most notably manifested in the Methodist revival here led by Howell Harris, among others. For 10 points each:
Name this region where William Morgan produced a vernacular translation of the Bible.
The Welsh Methodist revival undermined the influence of this established church of Great Britain, which had already lost substantial ground in Wales in the aftermath of the English Civil War.
This adjective describes preachers such as George Whitfield who moved from city to city during religious revival movements like the Methodist one in Wales and the First Great Awakening in America. Methodist examples of these kinds of preachers were called “circuit riders.”
Wales [or Cymru; accept any specific region within Wales]
Anglican Church [or Church of England]
itinerant preachers [prompt on traveling preachers] &lt;British/CW History, WA&gt;
Inmates at this prison who protested its conditions by slitting their Achilles tendons in 1952 became known as the Heel String Gang. For 10 points each:
Name this notoriously violent prison. It takes its common nickname from the plantation that was once on the same land, which in turn derived its name from the modern-day country where most of its slaves came from.
While at Angola, Kirksey Nix, a leader of a so-called “mafia” in this state, defrauded gay men through fake ads in the Lonely Hearts Scam. Klansman Byron De La Beckwith murdered Medgar Evers in this state.
Louisiana was a notorious early user of convict leasing, which was made possible by a caveat in this amendment that allowed slavery as punishment for a crime. Otherwise, this amendment abolished slavery.
Louisiana State Penitentiary [or Angola Prison; or The Farm; prompt on Alcatraz of the South]
Mississippi [prompt on MS]
Thirteenth Amendment to the US Constitution [or Amendment 13] &lt;US History, EL&gt;
This ruler planted a large pine forest near the city of Leiria (“lay-REE-uh”) to provide a source of material for shipbuilding. For 10 points each:
Name this European monarch, known as the “farmer king,” who dramatically centralized power in his realm in the 1290s. His wife Isabel, who was born in Aragon, is today venerated as a saint.
The exploration voyages sponsored by this Portuguese prince made extensive use of caravels built using wood from the forest that Denis planted a century and a half earlier.
Denis was also known as the “Poet King” due to writing much poetry, much like this maternal grandfather of his, who wrote poetry in Galician. This 13th-century ruler of Castile compiled a namesake set of astronomical tables.
Denis of Portugal [or Diniz of Portugal; accept Denis I]
Henry the Navigator [or Henrique o Navegador; accept Infante Dom Henrique]
Alfonso X [or Alfonso the Wise or Alfonso el Sabio; prompt on Alfonso; prompt on Alfonsine tables; do not accept or prompt on “Alfonso the Brave” or “Alfonso el Bravo”] &lt;Continental post-600 History, NB&gt;
Memos written by Edwin Reischauer to SCAP emphasized the necessity for this leader to speak forthrightly with the people about his human nature. For 10 points each:
Name this leader who later insisted that he did not renounce his own divinity in the Humanity Declaration.
The importance placed on the renunciation of imperial divinity is noted in this 1999 book by John W. Dover that explores the occupation and democratization of Japan after World War II.
The Humanity Declaration laid the foundation for one of these documents written by the occupying Allies to replace the Meiji one. That new example of these documents includes Article 9, which renounces war as a means of settling international disputes.
Emperor Hirohito [or the Shōwa Emperor]
Embracing Defeat
constitutions of Japan [accept Meiji Constitution or Japanese Constitution] &lt;World History, WA&gt;
In 1801, this man refused to pay 225,000 dollars in tribute to the Pasha of Tripoli. For 10 points each:
Name this chief executive whose decision not to pay tribute to North Africans led to the First Barbary War.
During the war, this American frigate ran aground and was captured by residents of Tripoli, who installed her as a gun battery. In a daring raid, Lieutenant Stephen Decatur destroyed this vessel to deny her use by the enemy.
Later in the war, American forces marched from Alexandria to capture this city in the Cyrenaica (“see-reh-NAY-ih-kuh”) region of modern-day Libya, marking a turning point in the war.
Thomas Jefferson
USS Philadelphia
Derna [accept Battle of Derne] &lt;US History, NB&gt;
Kurt Vonnegut’s older brother, Bernard Vonnegut, demonstrated a successful method of accomplishing this result using silver iodide, which may have inspired plot elements in <em>Cat’s Cradle</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this result that was the goal of the historical practice of pluviculture.
In a ridiculous disaster, this city’s council hired Charles Hatfield in 1915 to engage in pluviculture; the council then sued Hatfield after dams on the nearby Otay and Sweetwater Rivers broke, causing over twenty deaths in the resulting flooding.
Farmers in this country traditionally participate in a “Cat Parade” in order to bring rain. This country’s major river is the Chao Phraya (“chow PRY-uh”), which irrigates agriculture in its heartland.
making it rain [or rainmaking; accept any answer about bringing rain or precipitation; accept creating floods, but do not accept or prompt on answers referring to just “rivers”; prompt on creating water; prompt on cloud seeding by asking “what does the cloud seeding result in?”]
San Diego
Thailand [or Kingdom of Thailand; or Ratcha-anachak Thai] &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
Hans Sloane’s donation of his collection was critical to the founding of this museum. For 10 points each:
Name this museum that is currently home to the remains from Sutton Hoo and the Oxus Treasure.
Sutton Hoo is believed to contain the remains of Raedwald, a king of this member of the Heptarchy. This kingdom was conquered by Mercia (“MUR-shuh”) in the 8th century CE.
Many of the most important artifacts at Sutton Hoo were found inside one of these objects. Vikings employed “long” examples of these objects to reach Britain.
British Museum
East Anglia [or East Angles]
ship [or boat; accept longship or longboat or ship burial or boat grave] &lt;British/CW History, NB&gt;
A city known by this name developed substantial industry along the river Akerselva (“AH-kush-EL-vah”), allowing it to eclipse Bergen as the largest city within its modern-day country. For 10 points each:
Give this name used by a certain city from 1632, when it was rebuilt near the Akershus (“AH-kush-HOOSE”) fortress after a fire and renamed in honor of a member of the House of Oldenburg. This name was changed in 1925.
Christiania was a name used by this present-day Norwegian capital city.
Oslo was founded by this Norwegian king and former member of the Varangian Guard. This king died on an expedition to support the rebellious English earl Tostig against his brother.
Christiania [or Kristiania; do not accept or prompt on “Oslo”]
Oslo
Harald Hardrada [or Harald III; prompt on Harald] &lt;Continental post-600 History, WA&gt;
Name these cities that were subjected to brutal Mongol sacks, for 10 points each.
In 1258, Hulagu Khan’s army captured this capital city of the Abbasid Caliphate and murdered its last ruler, al-Musta’sim, by rolling him up in a carpet and trampling him with their horses.
The city of Zhongdu, which is today found in this city, had all its inhabitants murdered by the Mongols in 1215. The Mongol city of Khanbaliq, known to the Chinese as Dadu, was built where this present-day city is located.
Writing in the 14th century, Ibn Battuta said that this Central Asian city had not yet recovered from its sack by Genghis Khan in 1220, in which its entire population was driven out. The long-thriving, Tajik-speaking Jewish community of this city in present-day Uzbekistan was visited by Joseph Wolff.
Baghdad
Beijing
Bukhara &lt;World History, NB&gt;
In February and October, sunlight casts upon three rock-cut figures in this complex’s inner sanctuary, while the fourth sculpture of Ptah remains in the dark. For 10 points each:
Name this temple complex built under Ramesses II to commemorate his victory at the Battle of Kadesh and his wife Nefertari. Its Great Temple features four large seated statues on its exterior.
Though he spent part of his life as a circus strongman, this Italian archaeologist and tomb robber unearthed the entrance to Abu Simbel in 1817.
In preparation for flooding from the Aswan High Dam, Abu Simbel was relocated to higher ground in 1968 with help from this United Nations agency, which maintains a list of World Heritage Sites.
Abu Simbel temples
Giovanni Battista Belzoni [accept the Great Belzoni]
UNESCO [or United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization] &lt;Geography, BD&gt;
The Baggara are generally considered to be a subgroup of these people, and include most people who received land grants under the <em>hakura</em> system. For 10 points each:
Name these people. Nationalists who identify as these people comprise the janjaweed militia groups who have terrorized the Fur people in raids since the 1980s.
Arab janjaweed have also been active in this African country that borders Sudan’s Darfur region. The Diffa Arabs live on the shores of the shrunken lake that lends its name to this country.
An ancestor with this name is the namesake of an Arabic tribal group whose dialect became widely used among Sanhaja Berbers after the Char Bouba (“shar BOO-buh”) War. A leader with this first name survived six coups, including one led at Skhirat (“s’khee-RAHT”) by Mohamed Bedbou and the “coup of the aviators” led by Mohamed Amekrane.
Arabs [accept North African Arabs or Sudanese Arabs; prompt on Sudanese people]
Chad [or Republic of Chad]
Hassan [accept Beni Hassan or Hassan II] &lt;World History, WA&gt;
Much of this photographer’s early work was actually done by his companion, Gerda Taro, who shared his pseudonym. For 10 points each:
Name this Hungarian war photographer who claimed to have caught an American soldier being killed by sniper fire in his “picture of the last man to die,” titled The Falling Soldier.
Capa was awarded the Medal of Freedom for his photographs documenting this war, which included his Magnificent Eleven photos of D-Day.
Capa co-founded this photography cooperative with others like Henri Cartier-Bresson. Nearly 200,000 works originally made by members of this group were donated to the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin.
Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann]
World War II [or WW2]
Magnum Photos &lt;Other Art: Photography, PC&gt;
His book “The Crisis of the Naval War” provided an account of British naval involvement in World War I. For 10 points each:
Name this British admiral who commanded the Grand Fleet until he was replaced by Sir David Beatty.
Jellicoe commanded British forces at this 1916 battle, which is named for the peninsula on which Denmark lies. This was the largest naval engagement of World War I.
Jellicoe earlier served during this conflict as captain of the HMS Centurion and chief of staff to Edward Seymour during the Seymour Expedition. A coalition during this conflict included both Austria-Hungary and France and was commanded by Alfred Gaselee.
Sir John Jellicoe
Battle of Jutland [or Battle of Skagerrak]
Boxer Rebellion [or Tianhui Movement] &lt;British/CW History, NB&gt;
Name these poets who took prominent roles in European politics, for 10 points each.
This poet, regarded as the second-most famous European behind Napoleon in his life, maintained a public stance of skepticism against German nationalism through the Napoleonic Wars. He also wrote Faust.
This poet, often referred to as “Il Profeta” or “The Prophet,” established a proto-fascist independent state in Fiume (“FYOO-may”) in 1919 until he was forced out after the signing of the Treaty of Rapallo.
This major advocate of the tricoleur helped organize the Second Republic in meetings at the Hôtel de Ville and served as its Minister of Foreign Affairs. He wrote an influential 1847 History of the Girondins (“jee-ron-DANS”).
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Gabriele D’Annunzio
Alphonse de Lamartine [or Alphonse Marie Louis de Prat de Lamartine, Knight of Pratz] &lt;Continental post-600 History, WA&gt;
Historian Thomas Noel, who is popularly known by the moniker “Doctor” [this state], is one of the best-known experts on its local history despite being born in Massachusetts. For 10 points each:
Name this state that was known as the “World’s Sanatorium” for much of the 19th century, since many people came to get fresh air and heal from tuberculosis. Events in its history include the Ludlow Massacre.
Colorado’s state historian is Patty Limerick, whose best-known book of western history is titled for this process. This word also happens to be the surname of a biographer of Stalin who wrote such books as The Great Terror and The Harvest of Sorrow.
Settlement of Colorado dramatically expanded after the opening of mines at Leadville after this commodity was discovered there. A lot of this commodity was found in the Comstock Lode in Nevada.
Colorado
conquest [accept The Legacy of Conquest or Robert Conquest]
silver &lt;US History, WA&gt;
This city’s emblem glyph is the most widely distributed of all such glyphs in the Americas. For 10 points each:
Name this city whose ruler Sky Witness achieved a major power reversal by converting Caracol from a vassal of this city’s rival Tikal into an ally. Today, this city is identified as the capital of the “Kingdom of the Snake.”
Calakmul and Tikal are cities built by this Mesoamerican civilization. This civilization’s advanced astronomy allowed it to develop a calendar that is slightly more accurate than today’s Gregorian calendar.
Though Calakmul’s efforts at conquest were usually directed at the vassals of Tikal, it also fought a war against this city’s leader Pacal the Elder. Pacal’s grandson was Pacal the Great, who ruled this city for 68 years.
Calakmul
Maya civilization [or Mayan civilization or Mayans]
Palenque (“pah-LEN-kay”) &lt;World History, WA&gt;
British military historian Charles Oman spent thirty years working on a magnificent seven-volume history of this war. For 10 points each:
Name this protracted war that Napoleon called an “ulcer.” Oman’s first volume covers events from the Treaty of Fontainebleau to the Battle of Corunna in this war.
Oman’s work on the Peninsular War includes a book titled for the army of this man, who commanded Allied forces during the Peninsular War and later defeated the French at Waterloo.
Oman’s major references on the Peninsular War included a book by an Irish-born British historian named William who had this surname who served at Corunna. A British commander with this surname sent the telegram “peccavi” (“peh-KAH-wee”), meaning “I have sinned,” as a pun after capturing the region of Sindh in India.
Peninsular War
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington [accept either name]
Napier [accept William Francis Patrick Napier or Charles Napier] &lt;Continental post-600 History, NB&gt;
A monograph by Theodor Mommsen analyzes this writer’s proposal that classical antiquity was a period of cultural achievement, while his own era was a “Dark Age.” For 10 points each:
Name this writer whose rediscovery of Cicero’s letters is often credited with sparking the Renaissance. This author, whose own letters include the Epistolae familiares, wrote the biographies in De Viris Illustribus.
Leonardo Bruni, a writer from this city, noted a century later that culture had advanced much since Petrarch’s time, and thus called Petrarch’s “Dark Age” the “Middle Ages.” This city was home to the Medici family.
This two-word Latin term denotes what Caesar Baronius considered the darkest of dark ages: the corrupt early 10th century, in which popes were controlled by the Theophylact family. This period is often called the Pornocracy.
Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
Florence [or Firenze]
saeculum obscurum &lt;Historiography, WA&gt;
The framework for suing under this section of a law was established by <em>McDonnell Douglas v. Green</em>, which ruled that plaintiffs must prove prima facie (“PREE-muh FAY-shee”) discrimination then show that an offered explanation is just a pretext for discrimination. For 10 points each:
Name this section of a larger law that laid out the mandate of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Griggs v. Duke Power Co. established this standard for Title VII discrimination, which holds that facially neutral policies must not disproportionately hurt a protected class. English-only policies were subject to this standard in McDonald v. Santa Fe Transportation Co., which, like Griggs, mandated proof of business necessity.
Discrimination due to this characteristic is prohibited by Title VII because Howard Smith added it, thinking it would tank the Act. The Equal Rights Amendment would mandate legal equality based on this characteristic.
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [do not accept or prompt on “Civil Rights Act of 1964”]
disparate impact [or adverse impact]
sex [accept answers referring to being male or female; prompt on gender] &lt;US History, EL&gt;
Many examples of these taxes were eliminated by the Anglo-French Cobden–Chevalier Treaty. For 10 points each:
Identify this general kind of tax exemplified by the Corn Laws. The Liberal Party strongly opposed these taxes, which came back into vogue in the late 19th century thanks to German and US protectionism.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Joseph Chamberlain promoted of this set of policies, which would have promoted free trade among British dominions and colonies, while imposing high tariffs on goods from outside them. The popularity of this scheme was revived in the Depression by the Bennett government in Canada.
Canada abandoned its plan to adopt an Imperial Preference scheme under this Liberal Prime Minister, who both preceded and succeeded Bennett.
tariffs [prompt on any answer mentioning trade]
Imperial Preference [or Commonwealth Preference]
William Lyon Mackenzie King [do not accept or prompt on “William Lyon Mackenzie”] &lt;British/CW History, WA&gt;
This politician nearly went bankrupt several years after leaving office, so he was lent a substantial amount of money by his cousin Gazaway Bugg. For 10 points each:
Name this politician who was known as the “Poet President” for writing such poems as “The Daughter of Mendoza.” This politician facilitated a huge debt crisis by authorizing the issuance of worthless “redback” currency.
Lamar wrote a poem to a newspaper in 1841 under the pseudonym “Faddle” insulting this politician, who both preceded and succeeded him as President of Texas. This namesake of a Texas city won the Battle of San Jacinto.
Lamar’s Secretary of War was a general with this surname who later died leading Confederates on the first day of the Battle of Shiloh. Robert E. Lee replaced another man with this surname as leader of the Army of the Potomac.
Mirabeau Lamar
Sam Houston
Johnston [accept Albert Sidney Johnston or Joseph Johnston; do not accept or prompt on “Johnson”] &lt;US History, NB&gt;
For about a century, this empire engaged in constant warfare on its eastern borders against the Hephthalites, who are also known as the White Huns. For 10 points each:
Name this Persian empire that, in addition to dealing with the White Huns, also dealt with an invasion from the more famous European Huns around 435 AD. This empire fought the Eastern Roman Empire for centuries.
The Hunnic invasion of the Sassanid Empire reached this Mesopotamian capital of the Sassanids and Parthians. This city, located on the Tigris River, was consciously founded near the former Seleucid capital city.
The Huns invaded the Sassanid Empire after Attila and Bleda signed a treaty named for this river with the Eastern Roman Empire. Diocletian defeated Carinus at a decisive 285 AD battle named for this river.
Sassanid Empire [or Sassanian Empire]
Ctesiphon [or Tisfun]
Margus River [accept Battle of the Margus] &lt;Ancient History, NB&gt;
Riots sparked by resentment over police brutality took place on a night named for these structures, which were employed by students who forced George Pompidou to reopen the Sorbonne. For 10 points each:
Identify these structures. Their first major appearance in Parisian history occurred on a namesake “day” in 1588 during an outbreak of mass protest against Henry III.
The “Night of the Barricades” and the May 1968 protests were a reaction to the conservative policies of this French President who had risen to fame as leader of Free France during World War II.
The “Day of the Barricades” was coordinated by a holder of this title in concert with ambassadors from Philip III of Spain. Several months later, Henry III had that holder of this title and his brother, a cardinal named Louis, murdered at the Château de Blois.
barricades [or Day of the Barricades or La Journée des Barricades or Night of the Barricades or La Nuit des Barricades]
Charles de Gaulle
Duke of Guise (“gheez”) (Henry of Guise led the Catholic League.) &lt;Continental post-600 History, EL&gt;
This country’s military participated in the Vadamarachchi Operation in 1987, the first conventional military operation on home soil since colonial rule. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose air force was instrumental in transporting troops and supplies during a 1971 uprising by the Marxist JVP party.
The Vadamarachchi Operation sought to regain control of the Jaffna Peninsula from this separatist group, which waged a civil war in Sri Lanka that lasted until 2009.
Most of Sri Lanka’s current combat aircraft are Chinese-built versions of aircraft designed by a Russian company known by this acronym. The F-86 Sabre was the first American response to this company’s model 15.
Sri Lanka [or Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka]
Tamil Tigers [or Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam or LTTE]
Russian Aircraft Corporation MiG [or Mikoyan and Gurevich Design Bureau] &lt;World History, BB&gt;
This man helped enhance Canadian national status by insisting that a Canadian delegation receive representation at the Versailles Conference. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian Prime Minister who led Canada during World War I.
Borden’s proposal that Canada and the other British Dominion sign the treaty separately drew opposition from the American delegation, as it would have granted the British Empire more votes in this international body proposed by the last of Wilson’s Fourteen Points.
Canada gained full control over her own legislation and foreign policy by the 1931 Statute of this location. This location gives its name to the current meeting place of the British Parliament and to a neighboring church rebuilt by Edward the Confessor.
Sir Robert Borden
League of Nations
Westminster [accept Statute of Westminster or Westminster Abbey] &lt;British/CW History, NB&gt;
Along with East Francia and Bulgaria, this state was the third of the large powers defeated during the Magyar (“MAJ-yar”) invasion of the Carpathian Basin in the early 10th century. For 10 points each:
Name this Slavic state where Saints Cyril and Methodius developed the Glagolitic script. This state reached its peak under Svätopluk I, one of its Kings from the Mojmirid (“MOY-mur-id”) House.
The Magyar conquest of the Carpathian Basin led to the establishment of what is now this country, whose Kings include Saint Stephen and Matthias Corvinus.
Both Mojmir (“MOY-meer”), the founder of Great Moravia, and his successor, Rastislav, were deposed with the help of an East Frankish king with this name nicknamed “the German.” The Magyars defeated another East Frankish King of this name nicknamed “the Child” at the Battle of Pressburg.
Great Moravian Empire [or Greater Moravia]
Hungary [or Kingdom of Hungary; or Magyarország]
Louis [accept Louis the German or Louis the Child; accept name variants such as Ludovicus or Ludwig or Ludovico] &lt;Continental post-600 History, EL&gt;
When asked to cover this event, one man agreed to do so only if he could cover it from his Parisian apartment, arguing that it would provide more accurate coverage than going on-site. For 10 points each:
Name this event that the same man considered to be an attempt to construct a “perfect semblance of victory” by analyzing CNN’s performance-like coverage of it.
Jean Baudrillard’s (“boh-dree-YARR’s”) The Gulf War Did Not Take Place argues that the Gulf War was one of these copies. According to Baudrillard, these copies have no original, unlike simulations, and are thus real and even hyperreal.
Baudrillard’s philosophy is considered to belong to this school of thought whose name was coined by Jean-François Lyotard. Its name implies that it is meant to come after thought of the 18th to 20th centuries.
The Gulf War [or First Iraq War or First Gulf War; accept any answer that indicates a war that took place in Iraq or Kuwait in 1991, but do not accept or prompt on “Iraq War” or “War in Iraq” alone]
simulacra [or simulacrum; accept Simulacra and Simulation]
postmodernism [do not accept or prompt on “modernism”] &lt;Thought, WA&gt;
Saul Alinsky organized a massive occupation of this city’s airport bathrooms during the O’Hare shit-in. For 10 points each:
Name this city where Alinsky worked in the Back to the Yards neighborhood that was earlier featured in Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle.
To embarrass Kodak, Alinsky planned for 100 activists to fart during a performance by this city’s philharmonic. This city, where Kodak is headquartered, was the headquarters of Frederick Douglass’s newspaper “The North Star.”
Alinsky began his career under John L. Lewis, the founder of the CIO who served as the head of this union during their 1937 Sit Down Strike. Members of this union were beaten during the Battle of the Overpass.
Chicago
Rochester [accept Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra; prompt on RPO]
United Auto Workers [or UAW; accept The International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America] &lt;US History, EL&gt;
In 1977, the GSG-9 conducted a raid in this city to free passengers from a plane that had been captured by supporters of the PFLP. For 10 points each:
Name this city that was occupied by the Unified Task Force in Operation Restore Hope. Mark Bowden turned his series of articles in the Philadelphia Inquirer about a battle in this city into a book.
Among the key events of the 1993 Battle of Mogadishu was the shooting down of one of these helicopters, an event that inspired the title of Bowden’s book and a Ridley Scott film based on it.
At the Battle of Mogadishu, US troops clashed with forces from the Somali National Alliance led by this man, who later declared himself President of Somalia in 1995 with little backing. He died in 1996 from a heart attack after being shot by the forces of Osman Ali Atto.
Mogadishu
Black Hawk helicopters
Mohamed Farrah Aidid &lt;World History, WA&gt;
The “house” named for this country, a former control center for its southern regions, is no longer within its borders thanks to the 1865 Treaty of Sinchula that it signed with Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose rule by the Wangchuck dynasty, a branch of the long-influential Dorji family, began in 1907 after its reunification.
The name “Bhutan” is a Sanskrit term that refers to the “end of” this region, which is known as Bod in its own language. This Himalayan region’s distinct form of Vajrayana Buddhism has influenced Bhutan over centuries.
Records of Bhutan do not exist before the 8th century, which is when this man is said to have flown to Bhutan and landed on the ground where the Tiger’s Nest monastery was later founded. The Testament of Ba records the founding of Tibetan Buddhism by this probably-historical figure, who is the subject of namtar biographies.
Bhutan [or Kingdom of Bhutan; or Druk Gyal Kap; accept Bhutan House]
Tibet [accept Tibetan Buddhism]
Guru Rinpoche [or Padmasambhava; prompt on Lotus-Born by asking for the Sanskrit name] &lt;World History, WA&gt;
This general and Walt Rostow recommended countering insurgent activity by using patrol dogs and defoliants. For 10 points each:
Name this general whom John F. Kennedy appointed to head the investigation into the failure of the Bay of Pigs Invasion. He earlier led the “Screaming Eagles” during World War II and wrote the book Uncertain Trumpet criticizing the New Look policy of the Eisenhower administration.
The US took Taylor and Rostow’s advice and used the defoliant Agent Orange in this conflict to help smoke out guerillas during Operation Rolling Thunder and other aerial campaigns.
Agent Orange was first used in warfare by the British in this modern-day Asian country, where it was used to help fight Communist insurgents led by Lai Teck and Chen Ping in a so-called “Emergency.”
Maxwell Taylor
Vietnam War
Malaysia [accept Malaya or Malayan Emergency] &lt;US History, NB&gt;
In Brazil, this movement gave rise to units called Base Ecclesial Communities, in which a clergy member was responsible for addressing community needs. For 10 points each:
Name this Catholic movement that began in Latin America and aimed to provide assistance to the poor. The name of this movement was coined by Gustavo Gutiérrez.
As a cardinal in the ’80s, this pope sharply criticized the growing Marxist influence of liberation theology on the Catholic Church. He was succeeded by Pope Francis after he resigned in 2013.
The teachings of liberation theology often stress the need to provide one of these specific things for the poor. Upon coming into office, Pope Francis used this specific phrase in his 2013 address Evangelii gaudium.
liberation theology [or A Theology of Liberation]
Pope Benedict XVI [or Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger; prompt on Benedict]
preferential option (for the poor) &lt;Religion, AK&gt;
This document was partly proven to be a forgery based on its anachronistic use of the word “satrap” to describe Roman rulers. For 10 points each:
Name this document that purported to grant imperial authority to Sylvester I (“the first”).
The donation granted the Pope control over the four principal sees, including this Egyptian city home to a magnificent library built by Ptolemy I.
After Lorenzo Valla proved that the Donation of Constantine was a forgery, this pope quit issuing bulls referring to it. This pope was an avid man of letters who sought to promote Rome as a literary center, and also issued the bull “Dum Diversas,” which sanctioned the murder of Saracens and the purchase of slaves from infidels.
Donation of Constantine [or Donatio Constantini]
Alexandria [or Eskendereya; accept Great Library of Alexandria]
Nicholas V [or Tommaso Parentucelli; prompt on Nicholas] &lt;Continental post-600 History, EL&gt;
Simón Bolívar had a lot of friends named José. For 10 points each:
Bolivar was very distraught after this revolutionary friend of his was murdered by five assassins in 1830. This victor at the battles of Pichincha and Ayacucho is also the namesake of a capital city.
Bolivar had strong mutual respect with this “Centaur of the Plains,” whose llaneros (“yah-NAIR-ohs”) cavalry smashed Spanish formations at the Battle of Carabobo. He later became one of Venezuela’s leading caudillos (“cow-DEE-yohs”).
José de San Martín met with Bolívar at the Guayaquil (“gah-yah-KEEL”) conference in this country to discuss the future of Peru. The Battle of Pichincha was fought near the city of Quito in this country.
Antonio José de Sucre y Alcalá
José Antonio Paéz
Republic of Ecuador &lt;World History, NB&gt;
In his memoir <em>Reflections of a Russian Statesman</em>, the gaunt-faced arch-reactionary Konstantin Pobedonostsev (“pub-yeh-dah-NOST-s’yeff”) criticized a reform of these institutions that was modelled on examples found in Great Britain. For 10 points each:
Identify these institutions, one of which was created for each okrug by an 1864 reform law that also eliminated separate examples of these institutions used by different social classes.
Those judicial reforms came during the reign of this tsar, whose other social reforms included emancipation of the serfs.
Alexander’s emancipation reform included restructuring local government into a system of these institutions, which consisted of a representative council and an executive board.
courts [prompt on juries or justices or judicial systems]
Alexander II [prompt on Alexander]
zemstvo [or zemstva] &lt;Continental post-600 History, NB&gt;
This act was drafted by Wayne Wheeler and named after the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. For 10 points each:
Name this Act that prohibited the production, transport, and sale of a certain class of substances, but did not explicitly prohibit their consumption.
The Volstead Act enforced the provisions specified by the Eighteenth Amendment, which was overturned by this other Amendment.
The Twenty-First Amendment was ratified by state conventions in 38 states, while only this state explicitly rejected it. This state’s Dispensary was a state-run monopoly on alcohol sales created by an extremely bigoted governor nicknamed “Pitchfork.”
Volstead Act [prompt on National Prohibition Act; do not accept or prompt on “prohibition” or “Eighteenth Amendment”]
Twenty-First Amendment to the US Constitution [or Amendment 21]
South Carolina [or SC] (The governor was “Pitchfork” Ben Tillman.) &lt;US History, NB&gt;
