This deity is traditionally depicted with two heads, representing his benevolence and malevolence. For 10 points each:
Name this guardian of the southeast whose mount is a goat or a ram. This Vedic deity consumes ghee with his seven tongues.
The ghee, or clarified butter, consumed by Agni is produced by these animals. As these animals are considered sacred, Hindus do not consume their meat.
Indra refers to this being as a “second Agni” because of its brightness after its birth. This enemy of snakes is the national symbol of Indonesia and Thailand.
Agni [or Aggi]
cows [or cattle; or bulls]
Garuda [or Garuda Pancasila; or Phra Kut Pha] &lt;Mythology&gt;
The Sacred Band of Thebes, which consisted of 150 pairs of gay lovers, swore oaths at a shrine dedicated to this person. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Iphicles (“IF-ih-kleez”) and nephew of Heracles. Some authors write that this man was a lover of Heracles as well as his assistant.
Iolaus helped Heracles defeat this monster by burning the stumps of its heads so that they would not regenerate. Heracles killed this many-headed monster for his second labor.
Iolaus and Heracles fight Cycnus, the son of Ares, in an epic by Hesiod (“HEE-see-id”) titled for one of these objects. Book XVIII of the Iliad contains an ekphrasis on one of these objects belonging to Achilles.
Iolaus (“eye-OH-lay-us”)
the Lernaean Hydra
shield [accept the shield of Heracles or the shield of Achilles] &lt;Mythology&gt;
This character’s name derives from a Canaanite word for “Lord,” which has the same root as a Hebrew word that may substitute for the name Yahweh (“YAH-way”) when speaking aloud. For 10 points each:
Name this beautiful mortal man and lover of Aphrodite. Aphrodite asks him not to go out to hunt, but he does anyway and is killed by a wild boar.
Adonis was born out of a tree that used to be this woman. This woman was transformed into a tree as punishment for having sex with her father, King Cinyras (“sin-NYE-russ”).
In the Metamorphoses, the story of Adonis is framed as a song sung by this musician. This hero travels to the underworld to bring back his wife Eurydice (“yoo-RID-uh-see”), but he fails since he turns back to look at her.
Adonis (The Hebrew word is Adonai.)
Myrrha [or Smyrna]
Orpheus &lt;Mythology&gt;
The <em>Huainanzi</em> (“h’WYE-nahn-dzuh”) states that this man was killed with a stick made from the wood of a peach tree. For 10 points each:
Name this master archer from Chinese mythology. King Yao requested that this man shoot down nine of the ten suns that had been simultaneously rising and scorching the earth.
In some versions of the myth, Houyi is rewarded by being given this sort of substance, but his wife Chang’e (“chong-UH”) drinks it before he can. Qin (“chin”) Shi Huangdi is believed to have died by drinking mercury, which he thought was this substance.
When Chang’e drinks the elixir of immortality, she is exiled to the moon, where she is accompanied by one of these animals. These animals’ feet are considered good luck.
Houyi (“ho-yee”) [or Hou Yi or I Yi or Ren Yi]
elixir of immortality [or elixir of life; accept descriptions of a substance that provides eternal life when drunk]
rabbits [or hare] &lt;Mythology&gt;
Roman accounts of this ethnic group’s early religious traditions describe how these people would decapitate human sacrifices, and hang the heads from their horses’ necks as a divine symbol. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnic group. One man claimed to see members of this group burn sacrifices alive in human-shaped wicker cages, while another reported their priests to sacrifice a pair of white bulls, and then brew elixirs of mistletoe.
Those ceremonies were typically carried out by these peculiar Celtic priests. Diodorus Siculus claimed that these people could divine the future by observing the spasms of stabbed humans.
These objects were pervasive in Celtic religion, demonstrated by the shared etymological root between the word “druid” and this type of plant. The Buddha meditated under one of these plants for 49 days to reach Nirvana.
Celtic people [accept Celts; accept Gauls or Gallic people; prompt on Britons; prompt on Gaels; prompt on Irish people; prompt on the Hallstatt Culture] (The two men were Julius Caesar and Pliny the Elder.)
druids [accept derwydd; accept drui; accept draoidh]
trees [accept oak tree or Bodhi tree] &lt;Religion&gt;
This deity is sentenced to death by seven judges in a trial overseen by Ereshkigal. For 10 points each:
Name this Sumerian goddess of beauty and fertility. In a poem, this goddess descends to the underworld and is forced to relinquish a garment of clothing at each of its seven gates.
Ereshkigal turns Inanna into a rotting corpse, but she is rescued and revived by two gallu created by this deity. This Sumerian god of freshwater and wisdom is also the father of Marduk.
Inanna travels to the underworld for the funeral of Ereshkigal’s husband, Gugalanna, who had been killed by Enkidu and this hero. This king of Uruk searches for immortality in his namesake epic.
Inanna [accept Ishtar]
Enki [accept Ea; do not accept “Enkidu”]
Gilgamesh [or Gilgames or Bilgamesh or Bilgames] &lt;Mythology&gt;
After surviving the Dark House and the Razor House, these characters hire leaf-cutter ants to recover the flowers they owed as a victory prize. For 10 points each:
Name these two characters. Like their father and uncle, they are summoned to the underworld because the noise of their ball game angered the lords of Xibalba (“shee-BALL-buh”).
The Hero Twins were conceived when their mother’s hand was wet by a calabash that used to be one of these body parts. The Olmecs created colossal sculptures of these body parts.
The lords of Xibalba play the ball game using the head of Hunahpu as the ball after he is decapitated in the house of these animals. The god Camazotz takes the form of one of these animals.
Mayan Hero Twins [or Hunahpu and Xbalanque in either order; prompt on twins]
heads [accept skulls]
bats &lt;Mythology&gt;
With the help of Loki, a giant wearing eagle’s plumage steals some of these objects from Idunn. For 10 points each:
Name these objects. In his eleventh labor, Heracles is tasked with taking one of these objects from the garden of the Hesperides (“heh-SPAIR-ih-deez”).
In Norse mythology, the Æsir maintain their youth through the golden apples of Idunn, so they are outraged when those apples are stolen by this giant. This giant is the father of Skadi.
After the Æsir kill Thjazi and recover the apples, Odin attempts to appease Skadi by turning Thjazi’s eyes into one of these things. To resolve a paradox, Zeus turns Laelaps and the Teumessian fox into two of these objects.
golden apples
Thiazi [or Thjazi]
constellations [or asterisms; accept stars] &lt;Mythology&gt;
In a hymn by Callimachus, Erysichthon (“air-ih-SICK-thon”) is cursed to become so hungry that he eats his own body after he destroys one of these things sacred to Demeter. For 10 points each:
Name these things. Nymphs called dryads and hamadryads were associated with these things.
An oak tree sacred to Zeus grew at one of these sites at Dodona. That one of these sites was later eclipsed in importance by the one at Delphi.
This villain was known as the “pine-bender” because he would ask travellers to help him bend a pine tree but then let go and launch them into the air. He was killed by Theseus.
trees [accept specific types of trees such as poplar]
oracle
Sinis &lt;Mythology&gt;
This <em>loa</em> is invoked first at the beginning of every ceremony, since he acts as a mediary between spirits and people. For 10 points each:
Name this loa who is typically depicted as an old man with a crutch. He is said to preside over crossroads.
Papa Legba is the equivalent to the Yoruba (“YO-roo-ba”) trickster deity Eṣu-Elegbara (“EH-shoo EH-leg-BA-ra”), who is in turn conflated with this figure from Christian mythology. This demon rules over Hell.
Eṣu-Elegbara is said to be accompanied by this animal, who takes on the role of Eṣu in much of Afro-American folklore. In another myth system, one of these animals tries to eat the sun because he thinks it’s a mango.
Papa Legba
the Devil [or Satan or Lucifer]
monkey [accept the signifyin’ monkey or signifying monkey] (The second clue is about Hanuman.) &lt;Mythology&gt;
This race was followed by a race whose members were children until they were a hundred years old and then died soon after reaching adulthood. For 10 points each:
Name this first of the five races of man in Greek mythology. They lived in an idyllic (“eye-DILL-ick”) age where no one worked and everyone was happy.
As Hesiod (“HEE-see-id”) recounted in his poem Works and Days, the Golden Race lived during the reign of this deity. In less peaceful stories, this king of the Titans castrated his father and swallowed his children.
Although most mortals in Greek mythology are from the fourth race, the Race of Heroes, Apollonius of Rhodes wrote that this character was the last survivor of the Age of Bronze. This giant automaton guarded Crete until he was killed by Medea and the Argonauts.
Golden Race [or Race of Gold or chryseon genos; accept answers indicating a race that lived during the Golden Age]
Kronos [or Cronus]
Talos &lt;Mythology&gt;
Before returning to Ireland from a land of eternal youth, this man was warned not to touch the ground, lest he instantly age hundreds of years. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary Irish bard, the primary narrator of the Fenian cycle.
Oisín lived in this realm for three hundred years, although he believed that he was only there for three. The name of this realm is Irish for “land of the young.”
Oisín is the son of this man, who is the subject of the Fenian cycle. This warrior gained all the world’s knowledge after eating the Salmon of Knowledge.
Oisín (“uh-SHEEN”) [or Osian or Ossian or Osheen]
Tir na nÓg
Fionn mac Cumhaill [or Finn McCool] &lt;Mythology&gt;
One of these two people slaughter the goose that guards their property in honor of their guests, since they could not otherwise provide an adequate meal. For 10 points each:
Name these two people who live in a small house in Phrygia. After noticing that their only jug of wine will not run out, one of these two people realizes that their guests are actually gods.
In Ovid’s Metamorphoses, Baucis and Philemon are spared from a flood since they host Zeus and this other god. When not disguised, this god is equipped with his caduceus (“ka-DOO-see-us”) and talaria.
In return for their hospitality, Zeus transforms the house of Baucis and Philemon into one of these buildings. Herostratus destroyed one of these buildings dedicated to Artemis at Ephesus.
Baucis (“BAW-siss”) AND Philemon [accept in either order; do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
Hermes
temple [accept a golden temple or the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus] &lt;Mythology&gt;
Ursula Dronke cites the völva’s choice of the word “<em>tívorr</em>” to describe this god’s death as evidence that he was killed in a ritual sacrifice. For 10 points each:
Name this god. In the usual account, this god is killed inadvertently by his blind brother with a sprig of sharpened mistletoe.
Although Snorri attributes Baldr’s death to Loki’s malice, Dronke argues that he was killed intentionally as a sacrifice to this god, possibly to ensure the world’s rejuvenation after Ragnarök. This wise leader of the Æsir is known as the “Allfather.”
In support of Dronke’s theory, Heather O’Donoghue proposes that Snorri borrowed the mytheme of a blind shooter from a Jewish legend in which this blind man accidentally kills Cain. This man tells his wives Adah and Zillah that since Cain was avenged sevenfold, surely he would be avenged “seventy and sevenfold.”
Baldr
Odin
Lamech (“LAY-mick”) &lt;Mythology&gt;
The name <em>ekadanta</em> (“ay-kuh-DAHN-tuh”), which means “one tooth,” derives from a deformity in this physical feature. For 10 points each:
Identify this physical feature of Parvati’s elder son, which was gained after he was killed by his father. In a different myth, this physical feature was acquired when Lord Shani looked at a baby.
Ganesha’s father is this Hindu destroyer god, who comprises the Trimurti with Vishnu and Brahma. The Ganges River emerges from his matted hair.
Ganesha’s broken tusk legendarily resulted from an incident in which an avatar of Vishnu attacked him with a parashu, which is one of these objects. In the Odyssey, a disguised Odysseus shoots an arrow through twelve of these objects in front of Penelope’s suitors.
Ganesha’s elephant head [accept answers indicating the elephant head of Ganesh; accept alternative names for Ganesh such as Ganapati or Vinayaka or Pillaiyar; prompt on head or elephant head or Ganesh’s head]
Shiva [accept Eshwar or Neelakantha or Nataraja]
axes &lt;AR, Myths/Legends&gt;
Deioneus (“dee-OH-nee-us”) stole this man’s horses after he refused to pay a promised bride-price. For 10 points each:
Name this mythological husband of Dia who committed the first murder of a family member when he killed his father-in-law by pushing him onto burning coals.
Ixion thought he was having sex with Hera, but he was actually having sex with a cloud imitating her. That act created this race of drunken half-horse, half-men who fought Ixion’s kinfolk, the Lapiths.
For his crimes, Hermes bound Ixion to one of these specific objects.
Ixion
centaurs [or kentauroi]
a fiery wheel [or a wheel of fire or similar answers; prompt on wheel or chariot wheel] &lt;AR, Myths/Legends&gt;
Answer the following about mythological boats, for 10 points each.
Scuabtuinne (“SKOO-ub-TUN-yuh”) is the boat belonging to this Irish god of the sea. Among this god’s other possessions are the Crane Bag and a cup that shattered after three lies he gave to Cormac.
The ship Skidbladnir could be folded up into eight pieces and belonged to this god. This god fell in love with Gerd and sent Skirnir to find her.
Ra’s ship performed the duties of this celestial object, which was also represented by Apollo’s chariot.
Manannan mac Lir [or Manann]
Frey [or Freyr; or Yngve]
the Sun &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
Strabo records that Hannibal made a pilgrimage to Lake Avernus in order to make a sacrifice to this deity. For 10 points each:
Name this primarily Roman god whose name derives from a Greek world for wealth. He is commonly shown holding a horn of plenty.
Pluto originated as a distinct figure in Roman tradition, but he shares several key tales with this Greek god of the underworld, such as the abduction of Proserpine.
The Romans conflated Pluto and Hades with other underworld gods, such as Dis Pater and this god, who names an Etruscan tomb that includes the only known depiction of the demon Tuchulcha (“too-CULL-kuh”). This Roman god, who punished broken oaths, is the ultimate source of the name of one of Tolkien’s fictional races.
Pluto [or Plouton; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, Hades]
Hades
Orcus &lt;WA, Myths/Legends&gt;
When this figure was killed by the Swallow people, his wife became the murderous Changing Bear woman. For 10 points each:
Name this figure from Native American tales who tried to stay up all night to win the best bow. While juggling his eyeballs to impress some girls, this canine trickster created the star Arcturus.
In Native American traditions, Coyote performed this action by kicking a ball of mud. In Norse myth, this action was performed when the gods imbued two pieces of driftwood named Ask and Embla with gifts.
In many Lakota stories, a shapeshifting trickster named Iktomi who normally takes this animal form is the accomplice of Coyote in his exploits.
Coyote
creation of humanity [accept answers that indicate that the first humans are being made]
spiders [prompt on arachnids] &lt;AR, Myths/Legends&gt;
Ovid claims that this man’s mother fell in love with his father due to the influence of the Furies, as Cupid would never have been responsible for such an act. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was born after his later lover, Aphrodite, cursed Myrrha to lust after her father Cinyras (“SIN-uh-russ”). The soils fertilized by this man’s blood grew into the anemone flower after he died.
So-called “gardens of Adonis” contained anemone, fennel and this other plant. In one story, Hera ate this food before she gave birth to the messenger goddess Hebe (“HEE-bee”).
Adonis was gored by one of these animals. Meleager (“mell-ee-AY-gur”) and Atalanta participated in a hunt for another of these animals sent by Artemis to ravage Calydon.
Adonis
lettuce [prompt on cabbage]
wild boar &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
Name these people whom Odysseus sees in the underworld, for 10 points each.
Odysseus pities this man, watching him endlessly rolling a boulder up a hill, only for it to roll back down again.
This man gives the advice that one should never trust women, particularly not one’s wife, as this man’s own wife stabbed him to death. Odysseus claims that Zeus has always brought disaster to this man’s house, the House of Atreus, through women.
This member of Odyessus’s crew is in the underworld because he got drunk, fell off of the roof of Circe’s house, and died. He asks Odysseus to bury his body after Odysseus returns from consulting with the spirits.
Sisyphus
Agamemnon
Elpenor (“el-PEE-nor”) &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
This deity is worshipped at Palani Malai and names the longest of the <em>puranas</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu god who is honored by the festival of Thai Pusam and invoked in the Sashti Kavasham (“SUSH-tee KAH-vuh-shum”) prayer. In Southern India, this god is venerated under the name Murugan.
The religious practice of paal kudam involves propitiating Skanda by carrying pots of this substance. In a story involving Vishnu’s avatar Kurma, the goddess Lakshmi emerged from a great amount of this substance.
In Hindu traditions this planet is associated with Skanda, who is a god of war. In English, this planet is named for the Roman god of war.
Skanda [or Kartikeya or Subramanyam or Kumara; accept Skanda Purana]
milk [accept ocean of milk; do not accept or prompt on “butter” or “ghee”]
Mars &lt;AR, Religion&gt;
The Romans considered the constellation Ophiuchus (“oh-FYE-uh-kuss”), the “snake-bearer,” to be a representation of this god, as he learned from watching one snake bring another herbs. For 10 points each:
Name this demigod, who was taught by Chiron (“KYE-ron”) in other traditions. He was killed with a thunderbolt by Zeus to prevent humans from becoming immortal.
When Zeus killed Asclepius, Apollo got his revenge by killing these beings, which forged Zeus’s lightning bolts. One of them named Polyphemus is maimed in the Odyssey.
At this cult site of Asclepius, supplicants slept in an enkoimeteria (“en-coy-meh-TAIR-ee-uh”) to find cures to their ailments. The theater here, designed by Polykleitos the Younger, is one of the best preserved Greek theaters.
Asclepius [or Hepius]
Cyclops [or Cyclopes]
Epidaurus &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
During a hunt, this character encounters a pack of white dogs with red ears feeding on a stag. For 10 points each:
Name this lord of Dyfed (“DIV-id”) who switches kingdoms and likenesses with Arawn for a year. During that time, he kills Hafgan and refuses to sleep with Arawn’s wife.
Pwyll is a character in the first branch of the Mabinogion, which is a source for the mythology of this country whose cities include Cardiff.
Pwyll meets this character when he goes to a hill that causes those with royal blood to either see miracles or receive wounds. This wife of Pwyll gives birth to his son Pryderi (“prih-DARE-ee”).
Pwyll [or Pwyll pen Annwn (“pwill pen ah-NOON”)]
Wales [or Cymru; prompt on Britain or UK or United Kingdom]
Rhiannon &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
Mayura is the mythological version of these animals in Hindu traditions. For 10 points each:
Name these animals, some of which provide objects that are often shown in Krishna’s hair. When Hermes killed the hundred-eyed Argus, Hera put his eyes on this animal.
In Yoruba (“YO-roo-ba”) tradition, the peacock was turned into a vulture when it tried to fly to this chief orisha, who is the king of the heavens. This orisha works with Obatala to create land and humans.
The people of this city, who venerated Marduk as their chief god, regarded the peacock as one of their main symbols of royalty. Those residents of this city believed that the gods granted authority to their king Hammurabi.
peacock
Olorun [or Olodumare; do not accept or prompt on “Olokun”]
Babylon &lt;AR, Myths/Legends&gt;
4channers have taken a great liking to a deity from this group, Kek, in part because he had the head of a frog and resembles Pepe, and in part because he represented primordial chaos. For 10 points each:
Name this group of deities worshipped in Hermopolis. It consists of eight members, four male and four female, each of which represent dualities.
The chaos represented by Kek would later come to be represented by this traitorous brother of Osiris, who was the lord of deserts and chaos.
Nu and Naunet, two deities from the Ogdoad, personified this domain, as did the great serpent Tiamat from Babylonian mythology. In modern times, the Vedic god Varuna is generally associated with this domain.
Ogdoad (“OGG-doh-add”)
Set [or Seth or Setesh or Sutekh or Setekh or Suty]
water [accept oceans or seas or salt waters or watery abyss; prompt on abyss or primordial abyss] &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
Name these mythological characters who inspired structures in the Roman Forum, for 10 points each.
Priestesses of this goddess lived in a house adjacent to her small round temple in the forum. Because of their devotion to this goddess of the hearth, her namesake “Virgins” received many legal protections.
Nearby the Temple of Vesta is a basin in a spring sacred to Juturna where these figures are said to have appeared watering their horses after the battle of Lake Regillus. These characters were known as skilled boxers.
The Forum was built on a site formerly used to worship this Roman deity where Romulus and Remus are said to have concluded a peace with the Latins. A son of this Roman god named Cacus terrorized the Romans around the Aventine Hill before being killed by Hercules.
Vesta [accept Vestal Virgins]
Castor AND Pollux [or Castor AND Polydeuces; accept The Dioscuri]
Vulcan [accept Vulcanal; do not accept or prompt on “Hephaestus”] &lt;RR, Myths/Legends&gt;
Answer the following about opening lines of classical epics, for 10 points each.
Homer’s Odyssey begins by asking one of these nine goddesses to “tell me” of the “man of many devices,” referring to Odysseus. These goddesses include Clio.
An invocation to this Greek deity begins the Argonautica by a man from Rhodes who, coincidentally, is also named after this deity. The English word “paean” (“PEE-in”) originally referred to a hymn to this deity.
The opening of Virgil’s Aeneid states that the speaker sings of these two specific things, and of how they brought about “the Latin race, the lords of Alba, and the lofty walls of Rome.”
muses [or mousai]
Apollo [or Phoebus Apollo] (The author is Apollonius of Rhodes.)
arms and the man [or arma virumque; accept weapons in place of “arms”] &lt;WA, Myths/Legends&gt;
A king of this city warred with his brother Proetus (“pro-EE-tuss”) in the womb and later sent a chest out to sea, which was recovered by the fisherman Dictys. For 10 points each:
Name this city ruled by Acrisius, from which that chest containing Danaë (“DAN-ay”) was cast.
The chest containing Danaë also contained this son of hers, who ended up accidentally killing Acrisius with a discus. This hero married Andromeda and killed Medusa.
In another story from Argos, this pair of twins showed their devotion to their old mother by pulling a cart with her in it to a festival of Hera. Name either of these twins, whose devotion was rewarded by Hera with a peaceful and happy death.
Argos
Perseus
Cleobis OR Biton &lt;ML, Myths/Legends&gt;
This title is held by the 14 mythical Kshatriya rulers of the current kalpa or eon. For 10 points each:
Give this title which also refers to the progenitor of humanity in Hindu tradition. That figure is also the namesake of a law code, which he is said to have written after surviving a cataclysm.
Shraddhadeva Manu, the current Manu, encountered this carp while washing his hands in a river. This fish is the first of Vishnu’s ten avatars.
Matsya appeared to warn Manu about one of these events. After this type of event, Manu’s boat washed up atop the Malaya Mountains.
Manu
Matsya
floods [accept synonyms such as deluges] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology &gt;
(Note to moderator: be lenient with phonetic and attempted pronunciations) Name some members of the mythical Celtic tribe -- Tuatha Dé Danann <em>(too-uh-huh day DAH-nen)</em>. For 10 points each:
This warrior was killed by Balor and the Fomorians at the second Battle of Magh Tuireadh (moy twitter). After his arm was replaced with a silver prosthetic by Dian Cécht (dee-uhn kate), this man was declared unfit to be king.
This god avenged Nuada’s death by killing Balor using a sling. He became the Celtic god of light after succeeding Nuada as leader of the Tuatha.
Lugh was the father of this other warrior, who single-handedly fought off an army at the Cattle Raid of Cooley with his spear the Gáe Bulg (gah-eh buh-lug).
Nuada Airgetlám (ar-get-lahv) [or Nuadu]
Lugh Lámhfada (loo LAW-vah-duh)
Cú Chulainn (koo HUH-lin) [accept Setanta] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
While this figure was exiled at King Etzel’s court, he was challenged to an inconclusive battle by Wenezlan, the king of Poland. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary hero who fought his evil uncle Ermenrich, the ruler of Verona, at several encounters, such as the Battle of Ravenna.
Dietrich’s adventures through Germany involved fighting these creatures, one of which kills his partner Ortnit. Fafnir is an example of these fire-breathing serpents in Norse mythology.
Dietrich has numerous run-ins with these creatures, such as Laurin and Goldemar. In Ortnit’s title poem, Ortnit meets one of these creatures named Alberich, who can only be seen while wearing a magical ring.
Dietrich von Bern [prompt on von Bern]
dragons
dwarfs [or dwarves; accept a small child (on a technicality of some translations)] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Legends, and Stories &gt;
Loki had some real people issues in the <em>Lokasenna</em>. For 10 points each:
The Lokasenna is based around Loki’s interruption of this god’s feast. Loki killed this sea god’s servant Fimafeng and threatened his other servant Eldir, so Loki could be let into this god’s feast party.
After being let in to Aegir’s feast, Loki proceeded to get into a verbal fight with this god of poetry, during which Loki insulted this god’s wife, Idunn.
After Loki had his temper-tantrum, this god came in and threatened to behead Loki unless he left. Loki, fearing this wielder of Mjolnir, elected to leave Aegir’s feast.
Aegir
Bragi
Thor &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
Answer some questions about the Seven Against Thebes. For 10 points each:
The army of the Seven Against Thebes was led by this commander who was banished by his brother Eteocles after they got into a fight over succession to the throne.
This father of Polynices and Eteocles prophesied that they would kill each other in a duel. This man is well-remembered today for killing his father Laius and marrying his mother Jocasta.
During the fighting, Tydeus was going to be granted immortality. However, this goddess spotted him eating Melanippus’s brains and decided to let him die.
Polynices
Oedipus
Pallas Athena [accept Athene] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology &gt;
Answer the following about the original establishment of world order in Babylonian mythology. For 10 points each:
After the gods killed this primordial goddess’s husband Abzu, she took the form of a sea dragon to exact revenge before being slain by Marduk.
After killing Tiamat, Marduk used her body to fashion parts of the world. Tiamat’s tears became these two rivers critical to Mesopotamian civilization.
Marduk’s killing spree didn’t end with Tiamat as he went on to kill her son Kingu to reclaim this object and solidify his rule among the gods.
Tiamat
Tigris AND Euphrates Rivers [prompt on partial; accept in either order]
Tablet of Destinies [accept Destiny Tablet; accept dub namtarak; accept tup simatu; accept tuppi simati] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
This man’s mother was the air spirit Ilmatar, who was pregnant with him for 730 years. For 10 points each:
Name this eternal bard who worked with Lemminkäinen and Ilmarinen to recover the Sampo.
Väinämöinen once wished to construct a boat, but lacked the magic words to do so. Väinämöinen learned the magic words after slipping into this tree-giant’s stomach, giving this giant a bad stomachache until he relinquished the runes.
Väinämöinen is the main character of this national epic of Finland that was compiled by Elias Lönnrot.
Väinämöinen
Antero Vipunen [accept Antero Wipunen; prompt on Antero alone]
the Kalevala &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
Name some animals associated with the Egyptian protector god Bes. For 10 points each:
Modern scholars have claimed that the earliest depictions of Bes show him as one of these animals on their hind legs. The goddess Sekhmet is most commonly depicted as one of these animals.
Among Bes’s specific household duties was killing these creatures. One of these creatures was created from Ra’s umbilical cord; that one of these animals, Apep, would frequently fight Set during a nighttime journey.
Bes was often present at childbirth, leading to his connection with the fertility goddess Taweret, who was most commonly represented as one of these animals. Horus once led his followers in killing these animals and crocodiles because of their association with Set.
lions [accept lioness]
snakes [accept serpents, accept cobras or other specific types snakes]
hippopotamus &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Stories, and Myths &gt;
Name some Greeks who fought in the Trojan War. For 10 points each:
Because Briseis was taken from him, this hero begged his mother Thetis to convince Zeus to join the Trojans in defeating Agamemnon. This hero killed Hector and dragging his body around the walls of Troy.
Because of a prophecy that the first Greek to step on Trojan soil would die, Odysseus jumped onto a shield when he landed, making this hero the first to actually “land” in Troy. Hector slayed this husband of Laodamia who was the first Greek casualty in the Trojan war.
After dueling Hector, this figure received a sword that he used to slaughter a group of sheep and then commit suicide out of shame. That episode was triggered when Odysseus was given Achilles’ armor.
Achilles
Protesilaus
Ajax the Greater [accept Telamonian Ajax; prompt on Ajax; do NOT accept or prompt on “Ajax the Lesser”] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
Name some trickster figures from mythology. For 10 points each:
This trickster god brought a python, leopard, and a group of hornets to Nyame in exchange for all of the world’s stories. In another story, this god killed a dwarf and hid him in a tree in an attempt to make rain.
This figure’s many troubled experiences included killing the evil Tuna and being wrapped in his mother’s hair and thrown in the sea. This hero used his magical fish hook to raise the Polynesian islands from the ocean.
Young women often feared this flute-playing trickster, who would use his detachable penis and sack of unborn children to make girls pregnant, which is why he’s associated with fertility.
Anansi [accept Ananse, Kwaku Ananse, or Nancy]
Māui (mow-ee)
Kokopelli [accept Kokopilau, Neopkwai’i, or Ololowishkya] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Mythology, Legends, and Stories &gt;
Answer some questions about the Chinese water monster Gonggong. For 10 points each:
In one of his usual antics, Gonggong headbutted and destroyed Mount Buzhou. Since that mountain had been holding up the sky, this wife of Fuxi (foo-she) replaced it with the legs that she severed from the turtle Ao (ah-oh).
Yu the Great is said to have killed Gonggong’s nine-headed snake minion Xiangliu (she-aang-”leo”) in his quest to end these natural disasters. Yu the Great eventually succeeded in stopping these disasters through the construction of a series of channels and dams.
Yu the Great was assisted by Yinglong in his struggles against Gonggong and Xiangliu. Yinglong is one of these creatures commonly associated with rain, rivers, and the underworld in Chinese myth.
Nüwa [or Nügua]
floods [accept deluge]
dragons [prompt on serpent or snakes] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook / Bradley McLain | Mythology, Stories, and Legends &gt;
Answer the following about everyone’s favorite animal, the Calydonian Boar! For 10 points each:
This huntress was the first person to wound the boar, for which she was awarded its hide. Later, this woman was forced to marry Hippomenes after he beat her in a footrace with the help of some distracting golden apples.
This lover of Atalanta killed the Calydonian boar. The Fates predicted that this man would only live as long as a piece of wood; this man died when his mother, Althaea, set the piece of wood on fire.
Meleager was the son of Althaea and this man. Artemis sent the boar to attack this Calydonian king after he forgot to honor Artemis at his harvest sacrifices.
Atalanta
Meleager
King Oeneus
After seeing a group of prostitutes known as the Propoetides, this figure resolved that he was not interested in women. For 10 points each:
Name this sculptor from Greek myth who fell in love with one of his own statues, Galatea.
Pygmalion hailed from this island, which was also the birthplace of Adonis and Teucer. According to legend, this island’s city of Paphos was founded by Pygmalion’s son.
This Greek goddess of love had a cult center at Paphos. When Pygmalion fell in love with his own statue, he prayed to this wife of Hephaestus, who agreed to bring the statue to life.
Pygmalion
Cyprus
Aphrodite
This monster was trapped under Mount Etna after being defeated by Zeus. For 10 points each:
Name this snake-like giant who, along with Echidna, is the father of many of Greece’s most famous monsters.
This offspring of Typhon had poisonous breath and blood so toxic that even smelling it could kill you. Heracles had to burn this monster’s necks in order to stop its many heads from regenerating.
This two-headed dog was the first child of Typhon and Echidna. He was charged with guarding Geryon’s cattle and was eventually killed by Heracles.
Typhon [or Typhos]
Lernaean Hydra [or Hydra of Lerna]
Orthrus [or Orthus]
Proteus ordered this figure to sacrifice four bulls and four heifers after Eurydice’s death, which this god caused by chasing Eurydice towards a viper. For 10 points each:
Identify this rustic god associated with beekeeping and honey. This god is the son of Apollo and Cyrene.
After Aristaeus caused the death of Eurydice, this son of Apollo and Calliope went to the underworld in a failed journey to retrieve her. This man was torn to pieces by Maenads while playing songs on his lyre.
This son of Apollo and Coronis was a god of medicine who brought back Hippolytus from the dead. People would sleep in temples of this god in order to be healed.
Aristaeus
Orpheus
Asclepius
This goddess is commonly depicted being flanked by two or four elephants. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who emerged from the churning of the ocean sitting in a lotus plant. On the third night of Diwali, people light diyas and offer puja to welcome this goddess into their homes.
Lakshmi is the consort of Vishnu in this religion, the majority religion in India. Texts from this religion include the Vedas and the Bhagavad Gita.
Lakshmi’s mount Olooka is one of these animals. In Greek myth, Demeter turned Ascalaphus into one of these animals out of anger following Hades’ abduction of Persephone.
Lakshmi [or Laxmi]
Hinduism
an owl [prompt on bird]
After he was kidnapped by pirates, this god turned into a lion to slay and eat his captors. For 10 points each:
Name this god who spared the remaining pirates by turning them into dolphins. This Greek god of wine became the twelfth Olympian after Hestia conceded her seat.
Dionysus was the son of Zeus and this mortal woman, the daughter of Cadmus. This woman died when Zeus revealed his true form to her.
According to Nonnus, Dionysus invaded this region, where he defeated this region’s King Deriades. Dionysus also fought a battle with a river god from this region named Hydaspes.
Dionysus [or Bacchus]
Semele
India
This figure was the son of Autonoë and Aristaeus. For 10 points each:
Name this figure from Greek mythology, who, while hunting in the forest, was turned into a stag and devoured by his own dogs.
Actaeon was killed for incurring this goddess’s wrath after seeing her bathing. This virgin huntress, the twin sister of Apollo, is also known as Cynthia.
At the Temple of Artemis in Brauron, girls would imitate these animals in an initiation ritual. One of Artemis’s followers, Callisto, was turned into one of these animals by a jealous Hera after being seduced by Zeus.
Actaeon
Artemis
bears
Some creation stories of the Indigenous people of the Pacific Northwest are described as “tales” of this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this bird who serves as a trickster figure in the mythology of the Pacific Northwest. According to the Haida people, this bird found the first humans in a clam shell.
Another Haida story tells how Raven stole the sun, the moon, the stars, and fresh water from a grey one of these animals. Zeus is said to have taken the form of one of these animals to abduct Ganymede.
This Greek god was said to have turned ravens’ feathers black in his fury. He’s not Helios, but this god of the sun was the patron god of Delphi.
Raven
eagles
Apollo
As penitence for killing his wife and children, this man had to perform twelve labors in the service of King Eurystheus. For 10 points each:<strong></strong>
Name this ancient Greek hero who slew the Nemean Lion and captured Cerberus.
During Heracles’ fifth labor, he cleaned the stables of Augeas by diverting two of these things named Alpheus and Peneus. Achelous, the father of the Sirens, was a god of these geographical features.
Heracles defeated the river god Achelous in a wrestling contest for the hand of this woman. This wife of Heracles accidentally kills him by giving him Nessus’ poisoned tunic.
Heracles [or Hercules]
rivers [or streams; prompt on bodies of water]
Deianira
Manco Capac created a temple to this deity by finding the spot where his golden staff sank into the earth. For 10 points each:
Name this sun deity. This son of Viracocha had his cult expanded by Pachacuti and was married to the Moon goddess Mama Killa.
Inti was the major god of this civilization, which also worshipped spirits known as Apu. The Andean Condor was considered sacred by this large South American civilization.
The Inca creator god Viracocha created humanity from these objects. In Greek mythology, Pyrrha and Deucalion threw some of these objects over their shoulders to create humanity after the Great Flood.
Inti
Inca Empire [or Incan Empire]
stones [or rocks]
This figure renamed all her sons “Maine” in hope that one of them would kill her enemy Conchobar [CON-co-bar]. For 10 points each:
Name this queen of Connacht from the Ulster Cycle. In some accounts, this woman’s lover Fergus protects her with a shield as she fills a moat with urine.
Queen Medb was jealous of one of these animals, which she attacked in a “raid” at Cooley. In Greek mythology, Io turns into a white type of this animal after being courted by Zeus.
This warrior single-handedly opposed Medb’s army in the Cattle Raid of Cooley. This son of Lugh wields a barbed spear known as Gae Bulg.
Queen Medb [mave] [or Queen Maeve; or Queen Medba]
cows [or cattle; accept synonyms]
Cuchulainn [cuh-HOO-linn] [or Setanta]
These creatures killed their enemy Caeneus by bashing him into the ground with tree trunks. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures from Greek myth who attempted to abduct Hippodamia on her wedding day, thus inciting a war with the Lapiths. The bodies of these creatures are half-man, half-horse.
This wise centaur didn’t join his more rowdy brethren in their attempted abduction of Hippodamia. He tutored Jason and Achilles.
The centaurs were produced by this Lapith king’s union with the cloud nymph Nephele. Hermes punished this king by strapping him to a fiery wheel, which spins in Hades for all eternity.
centaurs
Chiron
Ixion
This hero goes through seven labors on his way to Mazandaran. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zal, the hero of the Iranian epic poem Shahnameh.
On Rostam’s first labor, he is completely asleep when Rakhsh, his animal of this sort, kills an attacking lion. Pegasus is a winged example of these animals in Greek mythology.
Rostam’s seventh labor involves killing the Div-e Sepid, known as the “demon” of this color. Zoroastrian priests wear robes of this color.
Rostam
horse
white
Because of his role as the patron of this concept, Zeus is often given an epithet referencing this specific Greek word. For 10 points each:
Give the specific Greek name for this concept, which is represented by mutual gift-giving and the presentation of a meal. Ancient Greeks abided by this concept in order to appease potential gods in disguise.
This prince violates xenia by abducting the Spartan princess Helen, directly causing the Trojan War. Earlier, he was forced to judge a beauty contest between Aphrodite, Athena, and Hera.
Later in the Iliad, Glaucus and this Greek King of Argos come to a truce upon realizing that they are bound by the xenia performed by their ancestors. Earlier in the war, he successfully wounded Ares in combat.
xenia [prompt on hospitality; do not accept or prompt on “hospitum”]
Paris
Diomedes &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
The first one of these instruments was created out of the jawbone of a giant fish and the hairs of a stallion. For 10 points each:
Name this string instrument. After playing this instrument, whose sound captivates all the animals of the forest, its inventor cries tears that turn into blue pearls.
This wise hero of the Kalevala creates the first kantele, and earlier defeats Joukahainen (“YO-kah-high-nen”) in a singing contest. His non-musical adventures include stealing the Sampo.
Earlier in the Kalevala, the Earth is created from one of these objects. Orphic creation myths often feature a primordial deity hatching from a “cosmic” one of these delicious objects.
the kantele (“KON-teh-leh”) [prompt on Finnish harp]
Väinämöinen
an egg [accept a duck egg] &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
One of these deities died while giving birth to a flaming god, after which the other one travelled to <em>yomi</em> in a failed attempt to bring her back to life. For 10 points each:
Name either of this pair of deities. The male member of this pair gave birth to Amaterasu from one of his eyes and Susano’o out of his nose.
Before Izanagi’s death, she joined her husband in this action, which was performed by encircling a celestial pillar.
Izanagi and Izanami were the members of the last divine generation. This is the total number of divine generations of the Japanese Age of the Gods.
Izanagi OR Izanami [accept either]
creating the islands of Japan [accept the kuniumi; accept creating Oyashima; prompt on creating islands]
seven &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
This character was falsely accused of attempting to ravish Stheneboea (“stheh-neh-BOY-ah”), the wife of King Proetus (“pro-EE-tuss”) of Tiryns (“TEER-inz”), so he was sent to Lycia, where King Iobates (“eye-AH-buh-teez”) assigned him a supposedly-impossible task. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek hero who, with the help of Pegasus, slew the Chimera.
After Bellerophon’s unexpected victory, Iobates assigned him a number of other quests, including a raid on this tribe of female warriors who made their capital at Themiscyra (“theh-miss-KY-rah”).
In the Iliad, Bellerophon’s story is related to Diomedes by a soldier with this name who is Bellerophon’s grandson. Ovid described a fisherman with this name who became a sea god after consuming a magical herb.
Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
Amazons
Glaucus &lt;RC, Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about <em>interpretatio romana</em>, a process by which writers like Tacitus reinterpreted non-Roman mythical traditions through a Roman lens, for 10 points each.
Tacitus’s Germania identifies a goddess worshipped by the Suebi people as this Egyptian goddess, the subject of a small Roman cult. The Greek god Harpocrates is a version of this goddess’s son Horus.
Tacitus also mentions the Suebi goddess Nerthus, who is linguistically linked to this male Norse god, the father of Freyr and Freya. Skadi found herself attracted to this god’s beautiful feet.
Tacitus identifies Odin, the chief god of many Germanic pantheons, with this Roman god. Julius Caesar reported that he was popularly equated with the Celtic trade god Lugus in Gaul and Britain.
Isis
Njörd [or Njörðr]
Mercury &lt;RC, Mythology&gt;
This goddess is derisively called the “imitation woman with no vagina” in one of the <em>Pyramid Texts</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess, who according to Plutarch gave birth to Anubis, a jackal-headed god that was later raised by her sister.
This Egyptian god fathered Anubis with Nephthys. This god of the afterlife was murdered by Set, and his body was rebuilt by his sister Isis.
More traditionally, Anubis was the son of this goddess, who patronized Egypt’s cats. This goddess was often depicted with a cat head.
Nephthys
Osiris
Bastet [or Baast] &lt;IJ, Mythology&gt;
In one story, these divinities make the shepherd Aristaeus immortal by giving him nectar and ambrosia. For 10 points each:
Name these daughters of Themis and Zeus who embody an aspect of nature. Some sources list their names as Auxo, Carpo, and Thallo.
This author wrote that the names of the Horae are Dike, Eirene, and Eunomia in his poem Theogony. This writer stated that the Horae embody natural order and not just the seasons.
On the other hand, Homer states that the Horae guard the entrance to this location. This location’s inhabitants have ichor (“ICK-er” or “IKE-er”) in their blood.
Horae [or Seasons or Horai]
Hesiod (“HEE-see-id”)
Mount Olympus &lt;IJ, Mythology&gt;
This god has empty eye sockets because instead of sacrificing himself alongside other gods in one event, he instead cried until his eyes fell out. For 10 points each:
Name this deity who serves as companion to the underworld in one myth system. This deity is represented by the evening star phase of Venus and is considered the protector of ollin (“OH-leen”), a certain concept of motion.
This god went to the underworld with Xolotl, his twin, to create the first humans of the fifth sun-era world by dipping the bones of previous humans in his own blood. This Aztec deity’s name means “feathered serpent.”
This Aztec rain god was the lord of the third sun and is also sometimes represented as Venus, similar to Xolotl and Quetzalcoatl. This god rules the underworld for drowned souls and had children sacrificed to him.
Xolotl (“SHOW-lohtle”)
Quetzalcoatl [or Quetzalcohuātzin]
Tlaloc &lt;YFL, Mythology&gt;
According to Hesiod (“HEE-see-id”), three of these beings who were the brothers of the Titans and the Hundred-Handed Ones crafted Zeus’s thunderbolts for him. For 10 points each:
Brontes, Arges, and Steropes were members of what race of one-eyed giants?
Though he was more famous for tangling with Odysseus, the cyclops Polyphemus also appeared in a story in which he used a boulder to crush Acis, his ostensible rival in love for the hand of this sea nymph.
The cyclopes were also credited with building the so-called “cyclopean” architecture of this city, including its Lion Gate. The brothers Atreus and Thyestes fought over its throne.
cyclops [or cyclopes]
Galatea
Mycenae &lt;RC, Mythology&gt;
This man’s wife agrees to sleep for 14 years so that the goddess Nidra will allow this man to remain continuously awake. For 10 points each:
Name this husband of Urmila, an avatar of Shesha who successfully killed Indrajit when the three weapons of the Trimurti refuse to touch him.
Lakshmana voluntarily goes into exile with his brother, a prince of Ayodhya who is the title character of this Hindu epic.
The Ramayana is generally attributed to this Hindu sage, who supposedly taught Rama’s sons Kusha and Lava the story.
Lakshmana [accept Lakhan or Saumitra or Ramanuja or Bharatanuja]
the Ramayana [or Ramayanam]
Valmiki &lt;RC, Mythology&gt;
The inhabitants of this island use ships steered by thought that apparently brought Rhadamanthus to and from Euboea (“yoo-BEE-uh”) in a single day. For 10 points each:
Name this island, often identified by scholars with Corfu, which is ruled by Queen Arete and King Alcinous (“al-kin-OH-us”).
A disguised Athena guided the Phaeacian princess Nausicaä (“naw-SIK-ay-uh”) to this man, who washed up on the shore of Scheria near the end of his ten-year-long return to Ithaca after the Trojan War.
Prior to taking a raft to Scheria, Odysseus spent seven years on the island of Ogygia (“oh-JIJ-ee-uh”), where he was imprisoned by this nymph.
Scheria [or Phaeacia (“fee-AY-shuh”)]
Odysseus
Calypso &lt;RC, Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about characters in Greek myth named Melantho, for 10 points each.
One such character became the mother of Delphus, the namesake of the town of Delphi, when she was seduced by this Greek sea god in the form of a dolphin.
That Melantho was the daughter of this man, who survived a flood at the end of the Bronze Age and repopulated the Earth with his wife Pyrrha.
Another Melantho was a sharp-tongued maid who disloyally revealed the nature of a long-incomplete burial shroud to her lover Eurymachus, who along with Antinous led this group of 108 men.
Poseidon
Deucalion
the suitors of Penelope [or the Proci] &lt;RC, Mythology&gt;
This city was founded after a man was instructed by the Oracle of Delphi to give up looking for his sister Europa and instead follow a cow with a half-moon on its side. For 10 points each:
Name this city founded by Cadmus. A war over this city pitted Eteocles against Polyneices and the “Seven Against [this city].”
Cadmus founded Thebes at a site where he killed a dragon guarding one of these places. Cadmus then planted the dragon’s teeth near that place of this sort and created the Spartoi.
The grandson of Cadmus, Labdacus, was torn apart in one of the instances of sparagmos attributed to this group. These female devotees of Dionysus may have chewed laurel leaves in order to enter the characteristic frenzied state of their rituals.
Thebes
a spring [or equivalent, such as a well]
maenads [or Bacchae; or Bassarids; or Bacchantes] &lt;YFL Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about times that Hercules’ coward cousin Eurystheus hid in a giant jar, for 10 points each.
Eurystheus first hid in his bronze winejar after Hercules returned wearing the skin of this creature. Its skin was impermeable to everything except its own claws, so Hercules wrestled it to death.
Hercules’ fourth task was to capture this animal sent by Apollo to kill Adonis. With Chiron’s help, Hercules captured this creature, which scared Eurystheus so much that he trembled for three days.
Hercules’ last labor was to capture Cerberus, who Diodorus writes was given to him willingly by this queen of the Underworld. Thanks to this daughter of Demeter, Hercules sent Eurystheus to his jar for a third and final time.
Nemean lion [prompt on incomplete answer]
Erymanthian Boar [accept “pig” in place of boar; prompt on incomplete answer]
Persephone [or Proserpine; accept Kore] &lt;JK Myth&gt;
In the mythology of the Fon, the Great God Mawu-Lisa sends the first humans to Earth with one of these animals to protect them. For 10 points each:
Name this animal that frequently serves as a messenger for the gods in West African mythology. Agemo was one of these animals, and another of them tried to deliver the message of immortality to mankind, but arrived too late.
Agemo is the messenger of this supreme god of the Yoruba [“YO-roo-ba”] pantheon. In one story, he helps this orisha defeat the sea goddess Olokun in a cloth-making contest.
Olorun sent Agemo to check up on the orisha Obatala while he was creating this thing using a snail shell and a hen. In Greek mythology, Gaia was the goddess of this thing.
chameleon [prompt on lizard]
Olorun [or Olodumare]
land [or earth or the world; do not accept or prompt on “the Universe”] &lt;JK Myth&gt;
One civilization had two gods of this foodstuff, one tonsured and the other leafy. For 10 points each:
Name this domain of the “first father,” who Linda Schele argues was associated with creation through his raising of the world tree. In some myths, that god of this domain is resurrected from the floating carapace of a turtle.
Maize was important in the mythology of these Mesoamerican people, whose creation narrative is recounted in the Popol Vuh [“vookh”] along with the story of the Hero Twins. These people include the K’iche’ [“KEE-chay”] and the Chuh.
The Popol Vuh recounts how maize dough was used to successfully accomplish this task after several failed attempts. In Aztec myth, Quetzalcoatl and Huitzilopochtli did this by sacrificing a god, whose blood fell on a mass of ground-up bones and produced Oxomoco and Cipactonal.
maize [or corn]
Maya [or Mayans]
creating humans [or equivalents of creating man or creating people; prompt on creation] &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
All women are said to be embodiments of this goddess. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu goddess of wealth and fortune. The churning of the ocean produced this wife of Vishnu along with other precious and beautiful things.
Lakshmi exited the ocean along with Kamadhenu, the “mother of” these creatures. She is considered to be the source of all prosperity.
In the Mahabharata, the first cow is named Surabhi, and is born when this god drinks too much Amrita and throws up. This creator god and husband of Saraswati formed a trinity with Vishnu and Shiva.
Lakshmi [or Laxmi]
cows [do not accept “bulls”]
Brahma &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
Pseudo-Apollodorus credits this person’s lover Thamyris as the first man to love another man. For 10 points each:
Name this youth loved by Apollo, from whose blood a namesake flower sprang after he was killed by a discus blown by the jealous wind god Zephyrus.
Another Hyacinth of Greek myth was a man who performed this action on the tomb of the Cyclops Geraestus to save the city of Athens. In the Cypria, the seer Calchas persuades a king to perform this action to appease Artemis.
Robert Graves claims Hyacinth was a flower god from this island, where Daedalus built a labyrinth to house the Minotaur for King Minos.
Hyacinth [or Hyacinthus]
sacrificing his daughter [or sacrificing his daughters; accept synonyms for “sacrificing” such as killing; prompt on partial answers such as sacrificing one’s child or human sacrifice]
Crete &lt;JB Mythology&gt;
This deity’s epithets included “lord of truth,” “master of justice,” and “the beautiful face.” For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian god of craftsmen, who was often depicted with green skin and a scepter. With his wife Sekhmet and his son Nefertum, he formed the triad of Memphis.
Ptah was embodied in Apis, which was a sacred one of these animals. Ishtar sent one of these animals to kill Gilgamesh for rejecting her, after which he was turned into the constellation Taurus.
This was the ancient Egyptian word for bull. This word was also used to refer to the spiritual double of a person that remained in their body after death.
Ptah
bull [prompt on cow or calf]
ka &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
This deity’s namesake “Virgins” were in charge of a sacred flame that could never go out, and their number included Rhea Silvia. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman goddess of the hearth whose Greek counterpart was Hestia.
Vesta was also symbolized by the fascinus, which was one of these objects. The Vestal Virgins hung effigies of these things under the chariots of victorious generals, and charms depicting them were used to ward off evil.
Along with Vesta, this deity was considered to be present at every wedding. This deity once caused a volcanic spring to erupt on the Sabines, and religious rites were required to invoke Vesta last and this deity first.
Vesta
phallus [accept reasonable equivalents]
Janus [or Ianus] &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
One figure sails to this place after escaping from the stomach of the giant Antero Vipunen. For 10 points each:
Name this place whose great hall is often used to hold marriages between its daughters and heroes from the south. One character is forced to come to this place to forge the Sampo for Louhi, the mistress of this place.
This figure was forced to forge the Sampo. This blacksmith travels with Väinämöinen and Lemminkäinen to take the Sampo back from Pohjola.
The Sampo, Pohjola, and Väinämöinen all appear of this collection of epic poetry, Finland’s national epic.
Pohjola [or Pohja; or Pohjoland; accept Northland]
Seppo Ilmarinen
The Kalevala &lt;YFL Mythology&gt;
This god triumphed over Tiamat, the primordial goddess of the ocean. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Ea, who took the Tablets of Destiny from Kingu. This patron god of Babylon created humans to do work so that the gods could have more leisure.
Marduk’s victory over Tiamat is told in this Babylonian creation myth. Thought to be used during Akitu, a spring festival, it established Marduk’s pre-eminence over the Babylonian pantheon.
After Marduk rose in importance over Ea in southern Mesopotamia, this god also absorbed some of Ea’s traits in the north. In the Sargonid version of the Enuma Elish, this consort of Kishar slays Tiamat, not Marduk.
Marduk
Enuma Elish [prompt on “When on high”]
Ashur [or Anshar] &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
This group included Maia, the mother of Hermes, and Electra, the mother of Dardanus. For 10 points each:
Name these group of sisters from Greek myth. One story says they committed suicide after the death of their father Atlas, while another claims that they were turned into doves to escape Orion.
In the creation myth of these people, the Pleiades were the first constellation placed into the sky by Black God. Complaining that the process was taking too long, Coyote used a blanket to throw the rest of the stars into the sky.
In a myth of the Nez Perce, one of the Pleiades pulls the sky over her face after her sisters mock her for falling in love with a man with this trait. Myths on the “Origin-of-death” theme explain why humans have this trait.
the Pleiades
Navajo [or Diné bizaad]
being mortal [or being able to die] &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
Oppenheimer supposedly quoted this text after witnessing the first nuclear explosion. For 10 points each:
Name this dialogue between Arjuna and his charioteer Krishna, the origin of the quote “Now I am become death, destroyer of worlds.”
Arjuna is a member of this five-member group, the sons of Kunti and Madri. These husbands of Draupadi defeated the Kauravas during the Kurukshetra War.
While Krishna is generally considered to be the eighth avatar of Vishnu, following Rama, sometimes the spot is given to this other deity. He was usually considered the older brother of Krishna and avatar of Shesha.
Bhagavad Gita [or the Song of the Lord]
Pandavas [or the sons of Pandu]
Balarama [or Baladeva or Balabhadra or Haladhara or Halayudha] &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
When this man and his wife threw rocks behind their shoulders, the stones became people. For 10 points each:
Name this man who repopulated the earth with his wife Pyrrha according to the advice of an oracle of Themis.
Deucalion and Pyrrha survived one of these cataclysmic events sent by Zeus. In the Epic of Gilgamesh, Utnapishtim survives one of these events.
Pyrrha appears to be the first person listed in this epic poem by Hesiod that only exists today in fragments. The phrase “ē hoiē,” which translates to “or such as,” appears repeatedly in this work.
Deucalion
floods
Catalogue of Women [accept Ehoiai] &lt;YFL Mythology&gt;
After this task was done, fully armed warriors grew from the ground and were killed by a thrown boulder. For 10 points each:
Name this task that a hero completed after yoking fire-breathing bulls. This was the second task performed to retrieve an object owned by King Aeëtes [“ay-EE-teez”].
Jason sowed the teeth of a dragon in order to obtain this object, which came from a ram that carried Phrixus to Colchis.
After taking the golden fleece, Jason and Medea were able to escape because Medea distracted Aeëtes by killing this man, her brother, and tossing pieces of his body into the ocean.
sowing dragon teeth [accept anything mentioning planting or sowing dragon teeth; prompt on partial answers]
golden fleece
Absyrtus [or Apsyrtus] &lt;YFL Mythology&gt;
Answer some questions about the impact of Christianity on the mythology of the British Isles, for 10 points each.
This female patron saint of Ireland was syncretized with the Celtic goddess of poetry, wisdom, and high flames, a daughter of the Dagda. She has a perpetual fire burning at Kildare.
This Welsh underworld ruled by Arawn or Gwyn ap Nudd grew to be associated with Christian paradise. Gwyn was said to lead his “hounds” of this place during the Wild Hunt.
This vessel, sought after by the knights of King Arthur, was originally just a magical cup but was syncretized by Robert de Boron with the cup used to catch Jesus’s blood at the Crucifixion. It was kept by the Fisher King.
St. Brigid [or Brig]
Annwn
Holy Grail &lt;JK Mythology&gt;
The Four Gods, Kāne, Kū, Lono, and Kanaloa, command the religious pantheon of this place. For 10 points each:
Name this place whose creation myth is told with the Kumulipo, a chant which links royalty with the gods. In a story from this place, the goddess Hi’iaka journeys to retrieve the singer Lohiau, only to have her sacred grove burned down.
This Hawaiian goddess, who burned down Hi’iaka’s sacred grove in a fit of jealousy, lends her name to volcanic glass that takes the form of thin strands. She lives in the caldera of Kilauea (key-lao-ay-uh) and represents fire, lightning, and volcanoes.
This trickster god worked with his father to push the sky upwards, freeing mankind from its oppressive weight. He also goaded his brothers into hauling the Hawaiian Islands out of the ocean with his great fish hook.
Hawai’i [or Hawaiian Islands]
Pele
Māui
In one text, these characters are born after a skull of a man killed for playing the ball game loudly somehow impregnates a woman in the underworld. For 10 points each:
Name these characters who trick their cruel half-siblings into climbing trees and becoming monkeys. These two characters also play the mythical ball game loudly.
The Hero Twins are featured in the Popol Vuh, a text written by this ethnic group of Central America.
The Hero Twins killed the demon Zipacna by luring him with a fake one of these animals. During his fight with the Hydra, Hera sent one of these animals to distract Heracles, which he kicked so hard it became a constellation.
the Hero twins [or Hunahpú and Xbalanqué (“sh-ba-lann-kay”)]
Mayans
crabs [prompt on Cancer by asking “what animal?”]
In this text, a woman is impregnated by eating a lingonberry and gives birth to a son who becomes King of Karelia. For 10 points each:
Name this epic which contains the story of the virgin Marjatta. In another story from this epic, a comb begins to bleed after its hero drowns trying to capture a swan to win Louhi’s daughter’s hand in marriage.
The story of Marjatta symbolizes the Christianization of this European country, which reveres Ilmarinen and Väinämöinen as mythological heroes and regards the Kalevala as its national epic.
In Finland, the word for Satan, “saatana,” is frequently used as a swear word in conjunction with a word thought to refer to this chief Finnish god. This god of the sky conjured lightning from a hammer, axe or sword.
the Kalevala
Finland
Ukko [or perkele; or Äijä; or Äijö; or Pitkänen; or Isäinen or Isoinen]
Zeus had this woman fashioned from clay as punishment for Prometheus giving fire to mankind. For 10 points each:
Name this wife of Epimetheus who opened a jar releasing all the evils of the world.
When Pandora was created, these goddesses adorned her with golden necklaces. These three goddesses are typically associated with beauty, merriment, and dance.
This daughter of Pandora and Epimetheus survived the great flood at the end of the bronze age. After the flood, this woman and her husband Deucalion repopulated the earth by casting rocks over their shoulders.
Pandora
the Graces [or Kharites or Charites; accept answers naming all three of Thalia, Aglaia, and Euphrosyne, prompt on anything less than all three of them]
Pyrrha
This group of monstrous, flying old ladies relentlessly chase down their victims in order to punish them for their crimes. For 10 points each:
Name these avengers of crimes against social norms like crimes against the elderly and crimes of inhospitality in Greek myth. This group’s name means “The Kindly Ones.”
In a play by Aeschylus, the Furies pursue Orestes all the way to this structure, where he is then tried for his crimes. A tract by Milton on free speech is named for this rock cropping in Athens.
According to some sources, the Furies were born from the remnants of this event. This specific action also led to the birth of Aphrodite.
the Furies [or the Erinyes; or the Eumenides]
Areopagus [prompt on Acropolis]
castration of Uranus [or equivalent answers which mention castration and Uranus or Ouranos; prompt on the birth of Kronos or similar answers]
While out fishing, Hymir caught several whales while this god snagged his long-time rival, the Midgard Serpent. For 10 points each:
Name this hammer-wielding Norse god of thunder.
Thor’s hammer Mjolnir could resurrect two of these animals, which pulled Thor’s chariot, after they were eaten. The Greek god Pan had the lower body of this animal.
The Völuspá (WO-lus-pah) foretells that after being poisoned by the Midgard Serpent during Ragnarok, Thor will walk this number of steps before collapsing. A Greek group of this many figures, including Clio and Terpsichore, were the daughters of Mnemosyne [“nih-maw-zih-nee”].
Thor
goats
nine
Eriphyle uses this object in order to convince her husband to join a rebellion, leading to her death. For 10 points each:
Identify this object which brought misfortune to all of its owners, including Semele and a woman who kills herself while her second husband tears out his own eyes.
Harmonia was the wife of the founder of this city, who slew a dragon and sowed its seeds into the ground to create the Spartoi. Most of the unfortunate members of the necklace of Harmonia were royalty of this city.
The necklace of Harmonia was crafted by this god of forges and blacksmiths in order to curse the lineage of the offspring born from the affair between Ares and this god’s wife Aphrodite.
necklace of Harmonia [prompt on necklace]
Thebes
Hephaestus
In one story, this character captures the python Onini by tricking him into letting himself be tied to a tree branch. For 10 points each:
Name this trickster figure who receives all the stories of the world after capturing three creatures for Nyame.
Anansi often takes the form of one of these animals, which he uses to ensnare the leopard Osebo in a web.
Anansi tricks these creatures into thinking that it is raining and seals them inside a calabash. The pastoral god Aristaeus introduced the art of raising and rearing these flying creatures.
Anansi
spider
bees [or wasps or hornets; or bee-keeping]
For 10 points each, answer the following about Yggdrasil, the world tree which connects the nine worlds of the universe together in Norse cosmology:
This chief god of the Norse pantheon hangs himself on Yggdrasil in order to learn the runes carved onto its bark by the Norns.
This serpent-dragon gnaws constantly at the roots of Yggdrasil in order to pull the world back into chaos. This dragon sends messages to an eagle at the top of Yggdrasil through the squirrel Ratatosk.
At Ragnarok, Nidhogg will emerge in order to join these beings in battle. These beings reside in a world on Yggdrasil ruled by Utgard-Loki.
Odin [or Wotan]
Nidhoggr
giants [or jotunn; or frost giants]
Answer the following about mythological bovines, for 10 points each.
Name this bull in Hindu mythology who is both the gatekeeper and mount of the god Shiva.
In Greek mythology, Zeus kidnapped this first queen of Crete and mother of Minos in the form of a bull.
The fields of King Aeetes had a large number of fire-breathing bulls made of this material. A giant made of this material named Talos was built to protect Europa by patrolling the island of Crete.
Nandi
Europa
bronze
The events in Ovid’s version of the Apollo and Daphne story are set in motion by two uses of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these objects from Classical mythology that often cause their targets to fall madly in love.
As told by Ovid, Cupid was annoyed with this god’s arrogance and pierced him with one of his arrows, causing this god to fall for Daphne. Another of his lovers, Hyacinth, was killed by a discus that Zephyrus blew off course.
Cupid then fired an arrow with a tip made of non-gold this material at Daphne, which caused her to be repulsed by Apollo. After begging her father Peneus for help, she was turned into a laurel tree.
Cupid’s arrows [or Eros’s arrows; accept answers that also mention the bow; prompt on “arrows”]
Apollo [or Phoebus Apollo]
lead
Sometimes, mythological figures need replacement body parts. For 10 points each:
After using his foot as bait for the monster Cipactli (see-PAHK-tlee), Tezcatlipoca (tes-cot-lee-POKE-uh) replaced it with a “smoking” one of these objects. Perseus used his shield as one of these devices to avoid looking at Medusa.
After his brother Set killed and dismembered this Egyptian god of the underworld, his wife Isis reassembled the body and replaced his missing phallus with one made of gold.
After Tantalus cooked and served his son Pelops to the gods, only this goddess partook, absentmindedly eating the boy’s left shoulder. Hephaestus crafted Pelops a new one made of ivory.
mirror
Osiris
Demeter
The first man with this title claimed to have seen twelve vultures, while another man claimed to have seen six, leading to a feud. For 10 points each:
Identify this title shared by a number of men, including one who was suckled by the she-wolf Lupa. The last man with this title fought a war against Lars Porsena.
This first king of Rome killed his twin brother Remus and named the city of Rome after himself.
This second king of Rome built the temple of Janus. This man codified most of the early tenets of the Roman religion, which he was supposedly taught by the nymph Egeria.
kings of Rome [prompt on partial answer]
Romulus
Numa Pompilius
Answer the following about the goddess of discord, Eris, for 10 points each.
As the goddess of discord, Eris unsurprisingly hung out a lot with Ares, the Greek god of this phenomenon.
At the wedding of these two individuals, Eris tossed an apple marked te kalliste or “to the fairest” and caused a brawl between Hera, Aphrodite, and Athena over who was most beautiful.
Eris is sometimes identified with this constant companion of Ares, a goddess of strife sometimes identified as the mother of Enyalius. Hesiod [HEZ-ee-id] gives this name to one of the Gray Sisters, along with Deio and Pemphredo.
war
Peleus AND Thetis
Enyo &lt;WA, Myth&gt;
In later stories, this character is imagined as a wise sage whose death gives birth to the personification of the crime of brahminicide, whose forces the king of the gods to flee into a lotus stalk. For 10 points each:
Name this massive serpent who holds up all the waters of the world in a Vedic story.
Vritra is slain using this kind of weapon by the god Indra. Zeus usually uses this kind of weapon forged by the Cyclopes to kill mortals that he dislikes.
On account of using soma, Indra goes into battle against Vritra in this state. The Aztec pantheon included four hundred rabbit gods of this state of being.
Vritra [VRIH-truh]
lightning bolts [or vajra; or thunderbolts]
being drunk [or drunkenness or inebriated or equivalents] &lt;WA, Myth&gt;
In an ancient dynastic foundation myth, a king spends several years focusing on standardizing weights and measures before trying to deal with this event, and sacks Gun for failing to do so. For 10 points each:
Identify this event, which was dealt with by a clever administrator who was assisted by the deity Hebo [huh-boh] and, in some accounts, a yellow bear or dragon.
This legendary flood survivor is sought out by one of his descendants in the Epic of Gilgamesh because he is said to possess the secret of immortality; instead, he tells Gilgamesh to return to Uruk.
Many early flood-myths are reflected in the story of this later Biblical character, who builds a huge ark that lands on Mount Ararat.
Great Flood of the Yellow River
Utnapishtim
Noah &lt;WA, Myth&gt;
A son of Shiva who takes this animal form is named Jambavan and circled Vamana seven times during the churning of the ocean of milk. For 10 points each:
Name these animals. The founder of the first Korean kingdom, Dangun [dahn-goon], is traditionally held to be a son of one.
This indigenous people of Northern Japan carries out the iomante ceremony in which a bear’s blood is drunk. Their deities include Repun Kamuy, the god of the sea, and Kim-un Kamuy, the god of bears.
In Japanese folklore, the onikuma – whose name means “demon-bear” – is a variety of these strange creatures, many of which lack limbs. They include the water-dwelling kappa.
bears
Ainu people
yōkai &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
On his journey home, this hero made a brief detour to the entrance of Hades where he meets Elpenor and his own mother. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek hero who performed that successful descent to the underworld by following the advice of Circe, who was helping this man return to Ithaca.
Pirithous and this other Greek hero descended to the underworld with the slightly less noble objective of kidnapping Persephone. They failed, and Heracles was later only able to rescue this hero.
This mortal woman, who later became known as the goddess Thyone, was rescued from the underworld by her immortal son. After this woman demanded to see her lover’s face, she was blasted apart by the divine power of Zeus.
Odysseus
Theseus
Semele &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
Name the following deities represented in ritual marital and sexual unions, known as hierogamy [hye-RAH-guh-mee], for 10 points each.
At Samos, priests carried out hierogamy rituals representing the union of these two deities. One of these deities got extremely jealous at the other over an affair with Europa.
Among the Sumerians, a hierogamy was carried out by the chief priestess of this deity and the king of the city-state. You can give this deity’s name or that of the Assyro-Babylonian counterpart, who journeyed to the underworld to rescue Tammuz.
The Bible denounces Canaanite priests for conducting a hierogamy representing intercourse between El and this goddess. In related traditions, this goddess is the consort of Ba’al, or even Yahweh in some stories.
Zeus AND Hera
Ishtar [or Innana]
Anat &lt;WA, Myth&gt;
This text’s original language name literally refers to “coming forth by day.” For 10 points each:
Give the common English name of this text, which describes how people’s hearts may be eaten by the monster Ammut.
Naturally, the Book of the Dead describes what happens to you in this place from Egyptian mythology, before you can move beyond it to a happy life.
Give the common two-word English name for the spells that were often in Ancient Egyptian graves and tombs in order to help people in the afterlife. Most popular during the Middle Kingdom, many were shortened and compiled into the Book of the Dead.
The Book of the Dead
the underworld [or Duat]
Coffin Texts &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
A king of this country genocided his enemies by crushing up some insects, soaking them in water, and spraying everybody with the resulting bioweapon. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose myths tell of the Coraniaid invasion. A king of this country gave his neighbor a magic cauldron to make up for an unfortunate incident of horse mutilation.
Lludd and Llefelys bury two of these beings underneath Snowdonia after catching them in a pit filled with mead. In a similar tale, Susano’o gets one of these creatures drunk to defeat it.
King Lludd was known for having a hand made out of this substance. It is common knowledge that a werewolf may be killed by shooting it with a bullet molded from this precious metal.
Wales [or Cymru; do not accept or prompt on “Britain” or “United Kingdom”]
dragon [or ddraig goch; or wyvern; or serpent; or snake]
silver &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
The former captain of this vessel was killed after its front fell off and killed him. For 10 points each:
Name this ship that had a prow made from the oak at the sacred oracle of Dodona. It ferried Jason and his crew in their quest for the Golden Fleece.
Oak trees were sacred to many European thunder gods, such as this chief of the Slavic pantheon. This god’s axe, which always returned to his hand, is a major symbol of the pre-Christian Slavic religion.
Folk beliefs about oak trees, such as one located near Tervuren in Belgium, often grew to include this figure as a healer and miraculous benefactor. After appearing to Juan Diego, this person may have been syncretized with the mythic figure Tonantzin.
Argo
Perun
the Virgin Mary [or Our Lady of Guadalupe; prompt on Mary] &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
In a story found in both the Jataka tales and Aesop’s fables, a donkey wears one of these objects in order to frighten other animals. For 10 points each:
Identify this kind of object. In a tale involving Heracles, this sort of object is impenetrable, so a man must defeat its possessor by strangulation, then remove it using that dead possessor’s claws.
The Indian story “The Lion and the Woodpecker” is analogous to an Aesop fable about one of these animals and a crane. In another Aesop fable, a boy falsely claims that one of these animals attacks his flock of sheep.
In other Indian tales related to lions, Vishnu manifests as this half-lion, half-man avatar in order to protect his devoted follower Prahlada from Hiranyakashipu.
lion’s skin [accept equivalents for “skin” such as hide; prompt on skin or hide]
wolf [accept “The Boy Who Cried Wolf”]
Narasimha &lt;WA, Myth&gt;
According to one version of events, this person received the gift of prophecy to make up for being struck blind by Hera. For 10 points each:
Name this character who spent seven years in the body of a woman after attacking some snakes that were having sex.
This other character from Greek myth asked to be turned into a man after being sexually assaulted by Poseidon. Poseidon also granted this person invulnerable skin, which did not prevent this person from being buried alive by centaurs.
In Ovid’s Metamorphoses, this goddess grants Iphis a sex change. She was identified in Hellenized traditions as the wife of Serapis and in regular Egyptian myth as the wife of Osiris.
Tiresias
Caeneus [or Caenis]
Isis &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
This god lost an eating contest to a fire and prevented the construction of a wall by seducing a beautiful stallion. For 10 points each:
Name this god who gave birth to Sleipnir and is better known as the father of Jörmungandr and Fenrir.
Fenrir, who will eventually break loose and devour Odin at Ragnarok, was chained down, but not before biting the hand off this god. As a result, this one-handed deity is the god of honorable contracts as well as being a war god.
The great wolf Fenrir fathered two other wolves who eternally chase the sun and the moon, and who will eventually succeed at Ragnarok. Name both.
Loki
Tyr
Sköll AND Hati Hróðvitnisson [accept Mánagarmr in place of “Hati”] &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
One author imagined these people as a matriarchal society who were led by moon priestesses of a great Triple Goddess in conflict with marauding Greek tribes. For 10 points each:
Name these people, thought by actual ancient Greeks to be the original inhabitants of Hellas. In The Clouds, Aristophanes alludes to Athenian belief in descent from these people, as well as a folk etymology of their name meaning “birds.”
This author imagined a “Pelasgian creation myth” in which the goddess Eurynome [yur-uh-NOH-mee] made the world from a great cosmic egg. He wrote The White Goddess and The Greek Myths.
Similarly, many worshippers of this mythical Thracian believed that the world was created from a great cosmic egg. This bard went to the underworld to retrieve Eurydice.
the Pelasgians [or Pelasgoi]
Robert Graves
Orpheus &lt;WA, Myth&gt;
A temple built by this man was decorated with art depicting the death of Androgeos and was the location of the Cumaean Sibyl visited by Aeneas. For 10 points each:
Name this man who, after seeing his nephew create a saw based on a fish’s spine, murdered that nephew and then fled his hometown.
This was the nephew of Daedalus whose murder led Daedalus to be thrown out of Athens. Athena saved this man by turning him into a bird.
Daedalus loved this son of his far more than he loved Perdix, but was devastated after this man flew too close to the sun and then fell into the ocean.
Daedalus
Perdix
Icarus &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
The northernmost of these form the Purple Forbidden Enclosure, surrounded by the Supreme Palace and the Heavenly Market, all visible year-round. For 10 points each:
Name these entities that include the Twenty-Eight Mansions housing the moon, which are grouped into the Four Symbols including the White Tiger and the Vermillion Bird, based on what time of year they are visible.
The constellations visible in the spring represent an Azure creature of this type sometimes identified with Ao Guang, who rules the Eastern Sea. This creature traditionally represents the Chinese emperor.
In Chinese mythology, this astronomical entity lying within a mansion of the Black Tortoise was created in order to separate a cowherd and a weaver girl. They are united once a year by a bridge of magpies across this entity.
Chinese constellations [or xingguan]
dragon [or long; accept Azure Dragon or Qinglong]
Milky Way [or Yinhe; prompt on Silver River]
On his way to catch the Erymanthian Boar, Heracles stopped by the home of one of these creatures, Pholus. For 10 points each:
Name these half-man, half-horse creatures, many of which Heracles later had to kill after they got drunk. During the fight, he also accidentally shot Chiron, one of these creatures.
Heracles later killed this centaur who tried to carry off Deianira after offering to carry her across a river. As he died, he told Deianira to collect his blood to use later as a love potion.
Centaurs started a war with the Lapiths after getting drunk at this man’s wedding to Hippodamia. This man later enlisted Theseus to try to kidnap Helen and Persephone.
centaurs [or kéntauros]
Nessus
Pirithous
In one tradition, this god tried to make mankind immortal by crawling through the body of the death goddess Hine-nui-te-pō. For 10 points each:
Name this trickster god who also lassoed the sun to make the days longer in the summer. In another tradition, he created a chain of islands by catching his fishing hook on the ocean floor and having his brothers lift it.
Māui is a god from the mythology of this general group of people, which include the Māori and the Hawaiians.
This Hawaiian goddess of volcanoes lives on Kīlauea and is the rival of Poli‘ahu, who lives on Mauna Kea. She came to Hawaii after she was banished by her sister Nāmaka for starting a fire.
Māui
Polynesian mythology
Pele-honua-mea
During this process, one gave forty-two truthful Negative Confessions. For 10 points each:
Name this process in Egyptian mythology by which a soul was judged to be ma’at kheru, or “true of voice.” This process was performed by Anubis, and those who failed to pass this test were devoured by Ammit.
This ibis-headed scribe of the underworld reported the outcome of the weighing of the heart. He also mediated various disputes between the gods, and allowed Nut to give birth by adding five days to the calendar year.
An amulet in this shape was usually carved with spell 30B in the Book of the Dead and buried with the dead in an effort to prevent the heart from registering an unfavorable result during the weighing.
weighing of the heart against the feather of Ma’at [or weighing of the soul against the feather of Ma’at; or obvious equivalents; prompt on judgement of the dead or similar answers]
Thoth [or Djehuty; or Tahuti; or Zehuti; or Techu; or Tetu]
heart scarab [or scarab beetle]
This man’s jealousy of his nephew Perdix’s inventions caused him to push Perdix off the Acropolis. For 10 points each:
Name this inventor who created wings with wax and feathers to escape with his son from imprisonment. Despite this man’s warnings, his son flew too close to the sun, causing those wings to fall apart.
Daedalus was imprisoned by this king of Crete after designing the labyrinth to hold the Minotaur. This man demanded fourteen youths be sent from Athens periodically as sacrifice to the Minotaur.
After Minos found Daedalus hiding under the protection of King Cocalus on Sicily, Minos was killed either by Cocalus’ daughters or by Daedalus himself with boiling water while he was performing this action.
Daedalus
Minos
taking a bath [or obvious equivalents]
The Pierides were named after these figures and were turned into magpies after they lost a contest to this group. For 10 points each:
Name these nine daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne, each associated with a particular art. They are led by Calliope, who presides over epic poetry.
The Muses live on this mountain, the site of the Hippocrene, a spring that was formed when Pegasus struck his hooves on the ground. Hesiod lived near this mountain and described meeting the Muses in his Works and Days.
The Muses buried this son of Calliope after he was killed and dismembered by the Maenads. This musician’s head continued singing as it floated down the river with his lyre after being ripped from his body.
Muses [or Moũsai]
Mount Helicon
Orpheus
With his friend Ferdiad, this man was trained in combat by Scáthach in Scotland. For 10 points each:
Name this hero from the Ulster Cycle of Irish mythology who turned back Queen Medb at the Cattle Raid of Cooley.
Cú Chulainn gained his most common name after killing one of these animals owned by Culann in self defense. He eventually died after he was forced to accept meat from this animal as food, thus breaking a taboo.
Scáthach gave Cú Chulainn the Gáe Bulg, a weapon of this type, and taught him how to use it. That weapon of this type was made from the bones of a sea monster, and it opened up into many barbs when it struck someone.
Cú Chulainn [or Sétanta; do not accept “Culann”]
dog [or hound]
spear
The Siege Perilous was reserved for the person who succeeded in finding this object. For 10 points each:
Name this object, the center of a quest taken by many Knights of the Round Table. Joseph of Arimathea used this object to collect Jesus’ blood, and later brought it to England.
This son of Lancelot sat at the Siege Perilous and eventually found the Holy Grail, accompanied by Bors and Percival. He was assumed into heaven while journeying back to Camelot.
The Holy Grail was kept by this figure, who was portrayed as impotent and thus ruled over a wasteland. Galahad eventually healed him with the Grail, although in earlier versions, Percival healed him.
Holy Grail
Galahad
Fisher King [or Wounded King; or Anfortas]
Depictions of lions line a processional path leading up to a structure dedicated to this goddess, which was partially reconstructed and is now on display in Berlin. For 10 points each:
Name this Babylonian goddess of love and consort of Tammuz.
Ishtar had to shed a piece of clothing for each gate she passed through while performing this action. She was either killed or imprisoned by Ereshkigal when she reached her destination naked.
Tammuz went into the underworld in Ishtar’s place, one of the many examples that this king cited in his refusal to become Ishtar’s lover. In response, Ishtar sent the Bull of Heaven after this man, as recorded in his namesake epic.
Ishtar
descent into the underworld [or going to the underworld; or obvious equivalents]
Gilgamesh [or Bilgamesh]
In Aztec mythology, this animal was thrown in Tecciztecatl’s face because he stepped back from jumping into a fire. For 10 points each:
Name this animal. In Chinese mythology, it accompanies Chang’e and pounds the ingredients for the elixir of immortality for her.
The Jade Rabbit lives at this location with Chang’e. Chang’e floated to this location after drinking too much of an elixir of immortality originally intended for her husband Houyi.
This Shinto moon god was so disgusted at seeing an exquisite meal vomited from the mouth of the Uke-Mochi that he killed her. In response, Amaterasu moved over in the sky so that she would not face him again.
rabbit [or Jade Rabbit]
the moon
Tsukuyomi [or Tsukuyomi-no-Mikoto]
Daji was a spirit of this type sent by Nüwa to punish King Zhou of Shang. For 10 points each:
Name this animal that often shapeshifts into beautiful women to seduce men in East Asian mythologies. They serve as the messengers of Inari, the kami of rice and most common dedicatee of Shinto shrines.
This fox appears in French folklore as a trickster figure, usually pursued by or playing tricks on his uncle, the wolf Ysengrim.
Japanese kitsune can have up to nine of these body parts, growing more as they age. They sometimes forget to hide these body parts when shapeshifting into a human, and they can use them to generate supernatural fire.
foxes
Reynard
tails
Tanngrisnir and Tanngnjóstr are two of these animals that can be slaughtered, cooked, eaten and then resurrected the next day. For 10 points each:
Name this type of animal that pulls Thor’s chariot. Thjálfi and his sister Röskva become Thor’s servants after Thjálfi breaks one of their bones to suck on the marrow, thus rendering one of these animals lame.
Thjálfi and Röskva join Thor when he and another god are on their way to the castle of this giant, who challenges them to various contests that they all lose.
Thor was unable to lift a cat belonging to Utgard-Loki because it was really this creature. In another story, Thor almost kills this creature when fishing with the giant Hymir, but Hymir cut the line and let it escape.
goats
Utgard-Loki [or Utgarda-Loki; do not prompt on or accept “Loki”]
Jörmungandr [or the Midgard Serpent]
Ysbaddaden [ISS-bah-DAH-“then”] is a giant in this myth system who issues a list of forty tasks for Culhwch [“cool hook”] before he can marry Olwen. For 10 points each:
Name this myth system whose stories were collected in the Mabinogion. Taliesin was a bard who composed poems about this myth system.
Culhwch was told to hunt two large animals of this type: Twrch Trwyth [toork “true WIDTH”], who has a comb and scissors concealed behind his ears, and Ysgithyrwyn [ISS-guh-THEER-“win”], whose tusk was the only thing sharp enough to shave Ysbaddaden.
Culhwch is assisted in his tasks by this king, whose dog Cavall killed the second boar. The stories of this king and his Knights of the Round Table form the Matter of Britain.
Welsh mythology [or Cymry; accept Wales or Cymru; prompt on Celtic mythology]
boars
King Arthur
On certain occasions, this body was believed to be attacked by the Tztzimimeh. For 10 points each:
Name this celestial body whose motion through the sky was maintained by regular blood sacrifices by the Aztecs.
The fifth and most recent incarnation of the sun was ruled by this god of war, who was conceived by a ball of feathers and prevented his four hundred siblings from killing their mother Coatlicue (ko-AHT-lee-kway).
The second sun was created by this god after he destroyed the first sun created by his rival Tezcatlipoca. This “feathered serpent” god represented the morning star, while his twin Xolotl represented the evening star.
the sun
Huitzilopochtli
Quetzalcoatl
Along with the Erinyes and the Meliae, these creatures were born when Ouranos’ blood dripped onto the earth after he was castrated. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures that tried to storm Mount Olympus in the Gigantomachy, though the cause of that war is unclear. It was prophesied that they would only be defeated with the help of Heracles.
While on his way to retrieve the apples from the Garden of the Hesperides, Heracles defeated this giant by holding him up, since this giant received his strength from Gaia whenever he touched the ground.
This separate group of three one-eyed giants helped the Olympians during the Titanomachy after being freed from Tartarus by forging Zeus’ thunderbolts, Poseidon’s trident and Hades’ helmet of invisibility.
Giants [prompt on Gigantes or Gigas]
Antaeus
Cyclopes [or Cyclops]
The Norns maintain this tree by watering it with water from the Urdarbrunnr, or the Well of Urd. For 10 points each:
Name this large tree connecting the nine worlds in Norse mythology. A hawk sits on an eagle sitting at the top of this tree.
The squirrel Ratatoskr runs up and down Yggdrasil exchanging insults between the eagle at the top and this creature, which gnaws at the root of the tree. He also chews on the corpses of those who commit the most serious crimes.
The Nidhogg lives near Hvergelmir, a spring located in this world of ice. During the creation, the cold from this world mixed with the fires from Muspelheim over Ginnungagap to create the rest of the worlds.
Yggdrasil
Nídhöggr
Niflheimr
The temple at Elephantine was dedicated to this god, his consort Satis, and their daughter Anukis. For 10 points each:
Name this ram-headed Egyptian god who creates the bodies of human children from clay at his potter's wheel.
Khnum also represents the source of this geographical entity, whose regular flooding served as the linchpin of Egyptian agriculture.
Khnum was closely associated with the god Min, who was at the center of a coronation rite that ensured the flooding of the Nile. Min is often depicted with a flail in his right hand and one of these things in his left hand; another one of these things was eaten by an oxyrhynchus fish after being thrown into the Nile.
Khnum [or Khnemu]
the Nile River
an erect penis [his own, in Min's case, and Osiris's in the latter; accept equivalents like phallus or ding-dong; prompt on “a body part” or equivalents] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about bad things happening to the sun, for 10 points each.
In Norse mythology, two sons of this character named Hati and Skoll constantly pursue the moon and the sun, respectively, finally catching and eating them at Ragnarok. The god Tyr sacrificed a hand in the process of neutralizing this character.
In response to complaints that the sun is moving too fast across the sky, this Polynesian trickster lassoed it and beat the shit out of it with a jawbone. A Maori myth claims that he used the same jawbone to fish up the North Island of New Zealand.
After all ten of the three-legged sunbirds decided to rise at the same time, this archer from Chinese mythology, who was married to the goddess Chang'e, shot nine of them out of the sky, thus saving humanity.
Fenrir [or Fenrisulfr; or Fenris wolf]
Maui [or Maui-tikitiki]
Houyi [or Shenyi; or Yi] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about Skadi, who Wikipedia helpfully describes as “the vengeful skiing goddess”, for 10 points each.
Skadi was the daughter of this giant, who is best known for kidnapping the goddess Idunn and bringing her to his home of Thrymheim.
To prevent her from taking revenge, Skadi was allowed to marry one of the Aesir, but had to choose her husband by looking at this body part, causing her to choose Njord despite desiring Baldr. Oedipus's name refers to the childhood wounds he received in this body part.
The Heimskringla claims that Skadi later split up with Njord, perhaps having tired of his beautiful feet, and had a bunch of children with this one-eyed “All-father”, the chief of the Norse gods.
Thjazi (“thee-aht-zee” or “thee-ah-see”)
feet [or foot or ankles]
Odin [or Woden; or Wotan] &lt;Carson&gt;
Like their brothers, they were cast by their father Uranus into a pit in Tartarus, where they were guarded by the dragon Campe. For 10 points each:
Identify these characters whose names were Kottos, Briareos, and Gyges. They fought on the side of the Olympians in the Titanomachy, during which they used their unique talents to heave huge rocks at the Titans.
The aforementioned brothers of the Hecatoncheires were these giants, who forged the thunderbolts thrown by Zeus. They were immediately recognizable by the single eye set in the middle of their foreheads.
Another cyclops of note is Polyphemus, who crushed a shepherd named Acis with a gigantic boulder due to his obsession with Acis's lover, a sea-nymph with this name. Post-classical writers gave this name to an ivory statue of a woman that came to life in response to its creator's love.
the Hecatoncheires (heh-kah-ton-KYE-urs) [or the Centimanes; or the Hundred-Handed Ones]
the Cyclopses [or the Cyclopes]
Galatea &lt;Carson&gt;
This man defeated the wrestler Cercyon, Sinis the pine tree-bender, the club-wielding Periphetes, the elderly robber Sciron, Procrustes the stretcher, and the Crommyonian sow during a treacherous journey around the Saronic Gulf. For 10 points each:
Name this hero, a legendary king of Athens whose son with his first wife Hippolyta became troublingly attractive to his second wife Phaedra.
Theseus was recognized as the rightful king of Athens after moving a huge rock and unearthing a sword and these items, which had been buried there by his father Aegeus. Pelias knew he would be overthrown when Jason arrived in Iolcus with only one of them.
Theseus's journey to Athens began in this city, the home of his mother Aethra. It was ruled by Aethra's father Pittheus and was the setting for Euripides's play Hippolytus.
Theseus
sandals
Troezen &lt;Carson&gt;
Meals were often seen as a combined sacrifice to this goddess and the Penates, a group of household gods. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman goddess of the hearth and home, the equivalent of the Greek Hestia. Rome's only full-time group of priestesses were known as this goddess's namesake “virgins”.
A group of twelve “leaping priests” known as the Salii ritually wielded the ancilia, a set of twelve shields kept in the temple of this Roman god, a member of the Archaic Triad. Augustus ordered the construction of a temple dedicated to this god's form of “Ultor”, or the avenger.
The three flamens maiores, or major priests, were dedicated to the three members of the Archaic Triad: Jupiter, Mars, and this god, whose name was sometimes used as an aspect of Janus. Originally a Sabine war god, he was later identified as the deified Romulus.
Vesta [accept vestal virgins]
Mars [do not accept “Ares”]
Quirinus &lt;Carson&gt;
Wikipedia claims that after this man's death, his head “shrivelled to resemble that of a duckling”, which is even funnier than the fact that this man's herald was named Copreus, or “dung man”. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Tiryns, whose cowardly nature led him to hide in a buried bronze wine jar rather than face such frightening sights as the Erymanthian Boar, Cerberus, or a man wearing the skin of the Nemean Lion.
Eurystheus assigned twelve labors to this greatest of all the Greek heroes, whose wives included Megara, Deianeira, and Hebe.
After Eurystheus's father Sthelenus exiled Heracles's mortal father Amphitryon from Tiryns, Amphitryon led a raid on King Pterelaus of Taphos, whose immortality was destroyed when his daughter Comaetho did this to him. Scylla did this to her father Nisos in order to win the affection of his foe Minos.
Eurystheus
Heracles [or Hercules; accept Alcaeus or Alcides]
cut or plucked his golden (or purple) hair [accept anything that indicates the removal of one or more strands of hair] &lt;Carson&gt;
After Christianization, this deity became identified with St. Elijah the Thunderer, a variant form of the Old Testament prophet that emphasized this deity's tendency to ride around in a chariot wrecking shit. For 10 points each:
Name this supreme Slavic deity of thunder and lightning who regularly clashed with Veles, the serpent god of the watery underworld. His Baltic equivalent is married to the earth goddess Zemyna.
Another bearded god who had a recurring conflict with a huge serpent, rode in a chariot pulled by goats, wielded a hammer that always returned to him, and represented thunder and lightning was this Norse deity, who loves smashing jotuns with Mjolnir.
Another attribute shared by both Perun and Thor was an affinity for this plant. A particularly sacred one named for Thor grew near Hesse until St. Boniface cut it down in the eighth century. What a jerk.
Perun [or Perkunas; or Perkons]
Thor [or Donar; or Thunor]
oak tree [or quercus; prompt on “tree(s)” &lt;Carson&gt;
This son of King Megareus of Onchestus is one of three possible fathers of Parthenopaeus. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was given three golden apples by Aphrodite that allowed him to repeatedly distract his opponent in a footrace, thus allowing him to win the race and marry that opponent, a woman who was philosophically opposed to marriage.
Hippomenes's opponent, then wife, was this virgin huntress who had earlier taken part in the Calydonian boar hunt. She was given the boar's head by its killer, Meleager.
Atalanta and Hippomenes were eventually turned into lions as punishment for having sex in a temple of either Zeus or this Phrygian mother goddess who was known as “Magna Mater” to the Romans. Her consort Attis castrated himself in a fit of passion.
Hippomenes [or Melanion]
Atalanta
Cybele [or Kubileya] &lt;Carson&gt;
This figure's thirteen wives include Kadru, who laid a thousand eggs that hatched into the nagas, and Vinata, who laid two eggs that hatched into Garuda and Surya's charioteer Aruna. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary Hindu sage, perhaps the foremost of the Saptarishis, whose other children include the apsaras, the devas, and the asuras.
Kashyapa's wife Aditi became the mother of both Vishnu's avatar Vamana and this Vedic god of fire, who uses his seven tongues to lap up sacrificial ghee.
According to some stories, Kashyapa and Aditi were reincarnated as Dasharatha and Kausalya, the parents of this future king of Ayodhya. This man rescues his wife Sita from the demon Ravana in the epic named for him.
Kashyapa [or Kasyapa]
Agni
Rama [or Ram] &lt;Carson&gt;
This character was accused of making advances on a queen named either Anteia or Stheneboea, prompting her husband Proetus <strong>(pro-EE-tus)</strong> to send this man to Lycia, where Iobates attempted to arrange his death. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who used a giant block of lead to successfully complete the suicide mission Iobates sent him on, which was to kill the fire-breathing Chimera.
Many of Bellerophon's exploits were carried out with the aid of this winged horse, who like his brother Chrysaor arose from the blood of Medusa.
Though Bellerophon's actual father may have been Poseidon, his mother Eurynome's husband had this name. Bellerophon's grandson of this name is a cousin of Sarpedon who befriends Diomedes in the Iliad, while a son of Minos with this name died after falling into a jar of honey.
Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
Pegasus
Glaucus &lt;Carson&gt;
This character is the subject of a trilogy of Middle High German poems titled for his “flight”, for the Battle of Ravenna, and for the death of Alphart. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary character who gets kicked out of Verona by his uncle Ermenrich and then attempts to regain his kingdom with the help of Etzel. In the Hildebrandslied, this character's foe is Otacher, a version of his real-world equivalent's enemy.
The Thidrekssaga, which also stars Dietrich, contains a story in which this legendary smith forges the sword Mimung to fight the rival smith Amilias. He fathers sons with both the swan maiden Hervor and the princess Bodvild.
Wayland also forged the sword Gram, which was pulled from a tree by Sigmund and, after being reforged, was later used to kill the dragon Fafnir by this man, Sigmund's son. This man is the central character of the Volsunga Saga.
Dietrich von Bern [or Thidrek; prompt on “Theodoric the Great” or “Theoderic the Great”]
Wayland the Smith [or Volundr; or Wiolant]
Sigurd [or Siegfried] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about food in Japanese mythology, for 10 points each.
More than a third of the Shinto shrines in Japan are dedicated to this male, female, or androgynous kami, who is often depicted carrying around a sack of rice. Pure-white foxes called kitsune act as this god's messengers.
A story in the Nihon Shoki relates how the kami Uke Mochi created a feast by producing various types of food from her mouth, which so offended the kami Tsukuyomi that he killed her. Tsukuyomi was the god of this domain, which was represented by the goddess Chang'e in China.
A parallel story in the Kojiki describes Ogetsuhime producing food from her nose, mouth, and rectum. In this case, the offended party who killed her was this storm god, the brother of Tsukuyomi and Amaterasu who slew the dragon Orochi.
Inari Okami
the moon [accept word forms like “lunar deities”]
Susano'o-no-Mikoto [or, of course, His Swift Impetuous Male Augustness] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about the life and times of Cephalus, for 10 points each.
Cephalus's wife Procris gave him two gifts, a javelin that never missed its target and this dog that never failed to catch its quarry. Cephalus set this dog on the trail of the uncatchable Teumessian fox, but Zeus got irritated at the paradox and turned them to stone.
Those gifts were a part of the reconciliation between Procris and Cephalus after the latter returned from an eight-year stay with this rosy-fingered goddess, who had kidnapped him during a hunting trip. This Greek goddess of the dawn similarly abducted Orion and Tithonus.
After Cephalus returned from Eos in disguise and seduced Procris, she angrily fled to the forest to hang out with this virgin goddess of the hunt, the sister of Apollo.
Laelaps
Eos
Artemis &lt;Carson&gt;
While aiming to kill this creature, Peleus misses and instead spears his father-in-law Eurytion to death. For 10 points each:
Name this creature which is hunted by a large number of heroes when it begins ravaging King Oeneus’s land as punishment for the king’s failure to sacrifice to Artemis.
After he lands the killing blow on the Calydonian Boar, Meleager awards its hide to this virgin huntress, with whom he is in love.
During the Calydonian Boar Hunt, this hero leaps into a tree for safety. In the Odyssey, Telemachus pays visits to both Menelaus and this king of Pylos.
the Calydonian Boar [or the Aetolian Boar]
Atalanta
Nestor
Answer the following about Zeus’s kidnapping of Aegina, for 10 points each.
Aegina is taken to a faraway island where these animals are turned into the Myrmidons. Daedalus uses one of these animals to pass a string through a seashell.
This man informs Asopus of the kidnapping of his daughter Aegina. Earlier, he sleeps with his niece Tyro in an effort to bring about the downfall of his brother Salmoneus.
Sisyphus is subsequently condemned to eternally roll one of these objects up a hill, only to watch it roll back down.
an ant
Sisyphus
a boulder [or a rock; or a stone; or obvious equivalents]
During this event, Thor uses the might of his hammer to slay the Midgard Serpent, but is only able to take nine more steps before he succumbs to its poison. For 10 points each:
Name this apocalyptic event in Norse mythology during which many of the gods die in battle with the giants.
During Ragnarok, both Loki and this son of nine billow maidens are slain in single combat with each other.
Heimdall signals the onset of Ragnarok by performing this action. The title character of the Song of Roland uses the Oliphant to perform this action with such force that his head explodes.
Ragnarok
Heimdall
he blows into a horn [or obvious equivalents]
This hero withdraws from fighting in the Trojan War when his war prize, the princess Briseis, is seized by Agamemnon. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek warrior who is later killed by an arrow to his only vulnerable point, the heel.
Agamemnon vainly tries to convince Achilles to rejoin the war by sending an embassy comprising Odysseus, Phoenix, and this warrior who fights alongside his brother, the archer Teucer.
Achilles ultimately decides to return to combat to avenge his best friend Patroclus, who is killed while dressed in this manner.
Achilles
Ajax the Greater [or Telamonian Ajax; or obvious equivalents that suggest the Ajax of more significance; or Aias in place of Ajax; prompt on “Ajax” alone; do not accept “Ajax the Lesser”]
he is wearing the armor of Achilles [or he is disguised as Achilles; or obvious equivalents]
This hero is forced into eight years of servitude after slaying a dragon sacred to Ares. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Agenor who founds a city after following a cow from Delphi to the spot that it lays down from exhaustion.
Cadmus founds Thebes after being sidetracked on his quest to locate this sister of his after her kidnap at the hands of Zeus in the form of a bull.
Theban citizens Zethus and Amphion collaborate on this effort using a combination of Zethus’s brute strength and Amphion’s enchanting lyre music.
Cadmus
Europa
they build the walls of Thebes [or obvious equivalents]
In a myth of these people, an age of acorn-eating giants is wiped out by carnivorous jaguars. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose creation myth concerns a god whose foot is bitten off by the androgynous crocodile Cipactli [“see-PACT-lee”]. Their psychopomp is often seen with the head of a dog or the body of a skeleton.
The Aztecs venerated this feathered serpent and are commonly thought to have considered the conquistador Hernán Cortés to be the second coming of this god.
This Aztec god is conceived by a ball of string, bursts from his mother’s womb fully-armed, and protects her from his four hundred elder brothers. This god is commonly depicted as a left-footed hummingbird.
the Aztec people [or Colhua Mexica [“MAY-shee-ka”]; or Mexica Tenochca]
Quetzalcoatl [“KETZ-ul-coh-AH-tul”]
Huitzilopochtli [“WEET-sil-o-POCH-lee”]
This goddess is borne of the seafoam created after the castration of Uranus. For 10 points each:
Name this Greco-Roman goddess of love.
This woman is put through a series of difficult ordeals after she accidentally spills hot oil on her husband Cupid, the son of Venus.
In the Metamorphoses, the sculptor Pygmalion forges a statue with this name, which Venus proceeds to bring to life. Polyphemus ends up killing Acis over a fight for the love of a nymph with this name.
Aphrodite [or Venus]
Psyche
Galatea
Answer some the following about horses in Greek mythology, for 10 points each.
Born from the blood of Medusa, this winged horse helps Bellerophon in his fight against the Chimera.
This hero steals four flesh-eating horses from the giant Diomedes some time after rerouting the rivers Alpheus and Peneus to clean the Augean stables in a single day.
The extremely swift horse Arion allows Adrastus to escape certain death after this event, during which Tydeus is denied immortality for eating the brains of Melanippus.
Pegasus
Heracles [or Hercules]
the war of the Seven Against Thebes [or anything with Seven Against Thebes]
Answer the following about fire in Hindu mythology, for 10 points each.
This two-headed Vedic god of fire uses his seven tongues to consume sacrificial ghee.
Shiva uses his third eye to incinerate this Hindu god of love, who lends his name to a sutra about human sexuality.
This god is sometimes called a son of Agni, but more commonly he is a son of Shiva and Parvati. This god loses a race around the world to his brother Ganesha.
Agni
Kama
Kartikeya [or Skanda]
The god Vali does not comb his hair or wash his hands until he has killed this deity, a feat Vali accomplishes on the day of his birth. For 10 points each:
Identify this blind god who is tricked into murdering his own brother.
This Norse trickster god convinces Hoder to strike his brother Balder with a mistletoe spear that turns out to be fatal.
This author related the death of Balder in the Gylfaginning section of his Prose Edda.
Hoder [or Hod; or Hodr; or Hodur]
Loki [or Lopt; or Loptr]
Snorri Sturluson
This divine being stands between the Earth and the sky and pushes them farther apart as he grows taller. For 10 points each:
Name this horned giant who creates the world over a period of 18,000 years.
Pangu is a creator god in the mythology of this modern-day country, whose legendary Jade Emperor has his roots in Taoism.
After consuming an elixir of immortality, the Chinese goddess Chang’e [“chong-uh”] is taken to this location, where she is accompanied by a jade rabbit.
Pangu
China [or Zhongguo]
the moon
The oracle of Themis instructs this man to repopulate humanity by throwing rocks behind his shoulder. For 10 points each:
Name this man from Greek mythology. He and his wife Pyrrha survive the great flood that ends the Bronze Age.
Deucalion’s wife Pyrrha is the daughter of this first woman, who releases evil into the world when she opens her namesake box.
The Bronze Age is the third of five ages of man described in this author’s poem Works and Days.
Deucalion
Pandora
Hesiod
After his father Cian [“keen”] is brutally murdered, this god assigns the three sons of Tuireann [“TOO-run”] a set of impossible tasks that end in their deaths. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Tuatha De Danaan [“TOO-hah day DAH-nahn”] who uses a sling to kill the one-eyed giant Balor in a battle against the Fomorians.
This mortal son of Lugh is forced to kill his best friend Ferdiad while defending his homeland from Queen Medb’s [“mayv’s”] attempts to steal the prize bull Donn Cuailnge [“don” COOL-nyah].
Cú Chulainn appears in the Ulster Cycle of this modern-day country’s mythology, which was largely supplanted by Catholicism upon the arrival of Saint Patrick.
Lugh [pronounced “loo”; or Lug; or Lugh Lamfhada [“loo” LAH-wah-dah]; or Lugh of the Long Arm]
Cú Chulainn [or Sétanta]
Ireland [or Éire]
Answer the following about the Titans in Greek mythology, for 10 points each.
After usurping his father Uranus, this Titan attempts to prevent his own usurpation by swallowing each of his children, but is deceived into swallowing a stone instead of his youngest son Zeus.
When this Titan gives gifts to all animals but forgets to reserve one for humans, his brother Prometheus is forced to steal fire from the gods to give as a gift.
Offspring of the maritime Titans Oceanus and Tethys include this horned river god who feuds with Heracles for the hand of Deianira in marriage.
Cronus
Epimetheus
Achelous
In the Ramayana, this god’s domain is repeatedly struck with arrows by Rama, who ultimately threatens to destroy it altogether with the brahmastra. For 10 points each:
Name this Vedic god of the seas.
This thunderbolt-wielding Vedic storm god inebriates himself with soma before battling the dragon Vritra.
Later Hindu tradition replaced worship of the Vedic gods with the Trimurti, which is a trinity consisting of Vishnu, Shiva, and this creator god.
Varuna [or Varun]
Indra
Brahma
This knight's murder of King Lot of Orkney sparks a lengthy feud that ends with his own death at the hands of brothers Gawain and Gaheris. For 10 points each:
Name this Knight of the Round Table whose perpetual hunt for the Questing Beast is interrupted by a duel with King Arthur during which the Sword in the Stone is broken.
After the Sword in the Stone is broken, King Arthur is presented this new sword by the Lady of the Lake.
This Knight of the Round Table and illegitimate son of Lancelot successfully obtains the Holy Grail, after which he becomes the only knight permitted to sit in the Siege Perilous.
Sir Pellinore
Excalibur [or Caliburn]
Galahad
This god pierces himself with his own spear Gungnir and hangs from the world tree Yggdrasil for nine days and nights. For 10 points each:
Name this head of the Norse pantheon who perpetually quests for wisdom.
Disguised as the workman Bolverk, Odin infiltrates one of these places to steal Suttung’s wisdom-bestowing mead of poetry.
In their roles as personifications of thought and memory, two of these animals named Huginn and Muninn ferry news of the world to Odin each day.
Odin [or Wotan]
mountain [or bjorg; or Hnitbjorg]
ravens [do not accept “crow”]
Answer the following about mythical decapitations, for 10 points each.
Heracles finds that decapitating one of this monster’s heads only causes two more to grow back in its place until his nephew Iolaus uses a brand to cauterize the neck stumps.
After Tantalus dismembers his son Pelops and feeds him to the gods, he is sent to Tartarus and given this punishment.
In the mythology of these people, Bran the Blessed orders his own decapitation after he and Pryderi [pree-“dairy”] are one of the only survivors of a battle against Matholwch [mah-THOLL-ook].
the Hydra [or the Lernaean Hydra]
he stands in a pool as food and water recede from his grasp [or anything that suggests that he is unable to obtain food and/or water placed near him]
Welsh people [or Wales; or Cymru]
The Enuma Elish details the dedication of the Esagila temple to this god, and ends with a record of his fifty names. For 10 points each:
Name this god who fashions the world using the corpse of the primordial dragon Tiamat.
Marduk was the patron god of this city. The namesake Hanging Gardens of this city were legendarily built to appease a homesick queen.
Marduk’s father is this fertility god who, in a drunken stupor, mistakenly gives Inanna some divine documents called me [“may”].
Marduk [or Bel; or Bel Marduk]
Babylon [or Hanging Gardens of Babylon]
Ea [or Enki]
One of its members had the Yellow Millet Dream and another walks with an iron crutch. FTPE:
Name this group of legendary figures that includes Lu Dongbin, Li Tieguai, and six others.
The Eight Immortals are a group from this Chinese religious philosophy that has a name meaning "way." The concept of wu wei is important in this religion that was founded by Laozi.
Zhang Guolao was a member of the Eight Immortals who had a mule with this unique ability. The ship Skidbladnir from Norse myth also had this special ability.
Eight Immortals [or Ba Xian; or Pa Hsien]
Taoism [or Daoism]
could be folded up [accept equivalents; prompt on "could be put in a bag or pocket"]
The twelve children of Niobe were killed in this fashion. FTPE:
Artemis and Apollo used what weapons to punish Niobe for boasting?
Niobe’s children were killed because she had made what specific boast?
Heracles killed the centaur Nessus with an arrow poisoned with the caustic blood of this nine-headed reptile.
arrows
she was a better mother than Leto or more fertile than Leto [accept equivalents]
Hydra
Along with his lesser-known pal Portunus, this deity represented doors and gates. FTPE:
What two-faced god from Roman myth also symbolized transitions, like beginnings and endings?
The gates to the temple of Janus were opened when Rome was in this type of situation.
Roman rites generally first invoked Janus and then this goddess of the hearth and home, whose temples were populated by her namesake “virgins.”
Janus
at war [accept obvious equivalents]
Vesta
This son of Clymene is responsible for Ethiopians having dark skin. For 10 points each:
Name this figure who lost control of the sun chariot belonging to Helios, his father.
Phaethon's grieving friend Cycnus is turned into one of these aquatic birds with white plumage and a long neck.
This figure from Finnish myth dies while trying to kill the Swan of Tuonela [TWAW-ne-luh], but his body is recovered by his mother, and he is restored to life with some magic honey.
Phaethon [FEY-uh-thon] [or Phaeton]
swan
Lemminkainen
In the Mahabharata, Nakula and Sahadeva share this relationship. FTPE:
Those siblings share what special relationship, also shared by Castor and Pollux?
Nakula and Sahadeva are younger brothers of this third Pandava brother, who is exhorted to fight his cousins by Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita.
In Aztec myth, Quetzalcoatl’s twin Xolotl [zoh-lotul] is a god of this substance, as is Agni in Hindu myth.
twins
Arjuna
fire
These siblings took the teeth, eyes, and power of the demon Seven-Macaw. FTPE:
What brothers from a Meso-American myth system were named Hunahpu and Xbalanque (shaba-lankay)?
The Hero Twins appear in the myth system of what culture that thrived in Guatemala and the Yucatan Peninusla till around 900 CE?
The story of the Hero Twins is featured in this text written in the Quiche language, which provides the basis for much of our knowledge of Mayan myth.
Hero Twins
Maya
Popul Vuh
In Greek myth, dreams which came through a structure of this type made of horn were meaningless, while those that came through one of ivory were true. FTPE:
What type of structures are found at the entrance to Shinto temples?
Shinto shrine gates are known by this term.
Ishtar had to pass through seven gates on her way to rescue this lover from the underworld.
gate [do NOT accept “door”; anti-prompt on “Torii,” which is kinda lame, I know]
Torii
Tammuz or Damuzi
Identify these figures from American folklore FTPE:
The blue ox Babe accompanied this giant lumberjack who needed an army of cooks to make his pancakes.
This African-American “steel-drivin’ man” beat a steam drill cutting a tunnel but died from the effort.
This “king of the keelboat men” was an actual historical figure, but has been mythologized as an opponent of Davy Crockett who could drink a gallon of whiskey and shoot a squirrel at 100 feet.
Paul Bunyan
John Henry
Mike Fink
One of these items inscribed “for the fairest” ruined a wedding and led to the Trojan War. FTPE:
The goddess of discord, Eris, rolled what type of fruit into that wedding, the same fruit used by Hippomenes to slow down Atalanta in a race?
[5 each] These parents of Achilles had their wedding ruined by the apple of discord.
This goddess of youth and wife of Bragi in Norse myth was the keeper of apples that are associated with fertility.
apple
Peleus and Thetis
Idunn
This goddess represents the dark aspect of Durga, the ur-feminine in Hindu myth. FTPE:
What black-skinned goddess was worshipped by the Thuggee?
Kali is often depicted with her foot on the chest of this member of the Trimurti, the husband of Parvati, sometimes given the epithet “the Destroyer.”
Shiva is the father of the elephant-headed Ganesha, who rides in a vehicle pulled by the deity Kroncha, who is one of these animals.
Kali
Shiva
mouse
This deity was really angry when she was lightly wounded by Diomedes while protecting her son during a battle in the Trojan War. FTPE:
What goddess was the mother of Aeneas by Anchises?
Aphrodite had a daughter, Beroe, with this prince whose blood, after he was gored to death by a boar, sprouted forth the anemone flower.
The sisters Euphrosyne, Aglaea, and Thalia, known by this collective name, are in some myths associated with Aphrodite.
Aphrodite or Venus (clue is true of both)
Adonis
Graces [or Charites]
In a poem by Auden, this object is expected to include "Marble well-governed cities," but actually includes "A plain without a feature" and "No blade of grass, no sign of neighborhood." FTPE:
Name this piece of armor that was made by Hephaestus and worn by the son of Thetis.
Athena possessed this goat-skin shield, whose center included the head of Medusa.
The shield belonging to this son of Telamon was made from seven layers of ox-hide and had an external bronze plate. His shield was often used to protect his half-brother, the archer Teucer.
shield of Achilles [prompt on partial answer]
aegis [EE-jis]
Ajax the Great [do NOT accept "Ajax the Lesser"]
The daughters of Pierus were transformed into birds after losing a contest to these figures, several of whom were attested as the mother of the musician Linus. For 10 points each:
Name these nine daughters of Mnemosyne. They included Clio, who represented history, and Calliope, who ruled over epic poetry.
Unlike her eight more artistically-inclined sisters, this eldest muse was associated with the more scientific domain of astronomy.
The Aganippe and the Hippocrene, two springs sacred to the Muses, were located on this mountain in Boeotia.
the Muses [or the Mousai]
Urania
Mount Helicon
Answer the following about the incessant syncretizations undergone by Ra, for 10 points each.
Ra was identified with Atum as the leader and progenitor of this group of nine gods worshipped at Heliopolis.
In later Egypt, Ra’s name was combined with that of an aspect of this god that was associated with sunrise and the horizon. This falcon-headed god was the son of Isis and Osiris.
Sometimes Ra, Atum, and this god were thought of as representing the sun during different times of the day. This god has the head of a scarab or dung beetle, and appropriately rolls the sun across the sky.
the Ennead
Horus [or (Ra- or Re-) Horakhty]
Khepri [or Khepera; or Kheper]
Identify the following about mostly-mythical bards and poets, for 10 points each.
This Welsh bard was born Gwion Bach, a servant of the magician Ceridwen, but was given a new name meaning “shining brow” after he was adopted by Elphin.
This man’s mother Sadhbh (“sive”) was turned into a deer, explaining the tuft of fur on his forehead. James MacPherson attributed a series of poems to this son of Finn MacCool.
In his namesake epic poem, Sundiata was assisted by Balla Fasséké, one of these West African troubadors. They are sometimes referred to as “praise singers”.
Taliesin
Oisin [or Ossian; or Osheen]
griots [or djeli]
Answer the following about unintentional cannibalism in Greek mythology, for 10 points each.
This onetime friend of the Olympians cooked his son Pelops and served him at a banquet for the gods. As punishment, he was sent to Tartarus, where food and water would remain eternally just out of his reach.
Tantalus’s grandson was this father of Agamemnon and Menelaus, who--upon hearing that his brother Thyestes had committed adultery with his wife Aerope--killed and cooked Thyestes’s sons and served them to him.
This Arcadian king unwisely chose to test Zeus’s omniscience by serving him the cooked flesh of either a prisoner or his own son Nyctimus. In return, he was turned into a wolf.
Tantalus
Atreus
Lycaon
This deity particularly enjoys a type of dumplings called <em>modak</em>, which are offered to him during his namesake festival. For 10 points each:
Identify this “remover of obstacles”, whose decapitation by his father Shiva resulted in his original head being replaced with that of an elephant.
Various sources claim that this god of war is alternately the younger or older brother of Ganesh, who cleverly beats this god in a race around the world by instead circling his parents.
One of the versions of Ganesh from the Ganesha Purana shows him wearing this serpent king around his neck. Earlier, this naga volunteered to be used as the rope wrapped around Mount Mandara to churn the ocean of milk.
Ganesha [or Ganapati; or Vinayaka]
Kartikeya [or Skanda; or Murugan]
Vasuki
Answer the following about ancient Greek poetry, for 10 points each.
Anne Carson’s If Not, Winter is a collection of fragments by this poet from Lesbos, whose only surviving full poem is her “Hymn to Aphrodite”.
Apollonius of Rhodes wrote a four-book epic about the adventures of this group of people, whose members included the seer Mopsus, the musician Orpheus, and Boreas’s sons Calais and Zetes.
This probable Syracusan invented the genre of bucolic poetry in his Idylls, which directly inspired the later Eclogues of Virgil.
Sappho
the Argonauts [or the Argonautica; prompt on things like “Jason’s followers” or “sailors”]
Theocritus
This man’s death took place either during his marriage to the Trojan princess Polyxena or shortly after his fight with Memnon over the latter’s killing of Antilochus. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek warrior who avenged the death of his companion Patroclus by killing Hector, only to himself be shot in the heel by Paris.
Achilles, like his father Peleus and his grandfather Aeacus before him, commanded this group of warriors. An etiological myth of their origin describes how they were transformed from ants to populate the island of Aegina.
In the Iliad, Achilles is said to have earned the “imperishable”, or “aphthiton”, version of this reward by forgoing his nostos, or homecoming. This concept takes its name from the Greek for “glory”, or “fame”.
Achilles [or Akhilleus]
the Myrmidons
kleos [or kleos aphthiton]
Dead warriors and women who died in childbirth went to accompany the rising and setting sun, respectively, rather than to this place, while the drowned went to Tlalocan rather than here. For 10 points each:
Name this arduous-to-traverse place to which your spirit might be guided by the psychopomp Xolotl.
Mictlan is the name of the underworld in the mythos of this Mesoamerican people, who fatally confuse the arrival of Hernan Cortes for the return of the feathered serpent god Quetzalcoatl.
Many more people presumably flooded into Mictlan after this Aztec god invented war, a subject that later came under the patronage of Huitzilopochtli. This god is usually depicted wearing his own flayed skin. Gross.
Mictlan
Aztecs [or Aztecas; or Aztec mythology]
Xipe Totec [or Camaxtli]
Answer the following about Vili and Ve, for 10 points each.
Vili and Ve are the brothers of this ruler of Asgard, the one-eyed chief of the Norse pantheon.
With Odin, Vili and Ve slew this primordial rime giant and fashioned the world from his body. Said body had previously produced the ancestors of the jotuns in a spate of weird auto-copulation.
After Odin gave them life, Vili and Ve gave intelligence and senses to this first pair of humans. Both names are required.
Odin [or Woden; or Wodan; or Wotanaz]
Ymir
Ask and Embla [accept names in either order]
This woman and her son were taken in by the fisherman Dictys after their arrival on the island of Seriphos. For 10 points each:
Name this daughter of Acrisius who was impregnated by Zeus in the form of a shower of gold.
Danaë’s son Perseus secured his mother’s right not to marry King Polydectes by bringing the king the head of this only mortal Gorgon.
Perseus’s later wife Andromeda was the daughter of Cepheus and Cassiopeia, the king and queen of this place. In the Iliad, Memnon brought an army from this place, of which he was the king, to Troy’s defense.
Danaë
Medusa
Ethiopia [or Aethiopia]
This man’s prayers to Jupiter for safe passage to Italy are answered, but in exchange his helmsman Palinurus dies. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Venus and Anchises who leads the Trojan survivors on a journey to Latium in his namesake Virgilian epic.
Upon his arrival in Latium, Aeneas began to court Latinus’s daughter Lavinia; however, this angered Juno, who demanded that Lavinia be married to this king of the Rutulians. Aeneas kills him at the end of the Aeneid.
After encountering Aeneas at the Strophades, the harpy Celaeno angrily prophesies that the Trojans won’t be able to build their city until they perform this ostensibly unpleasant action. Ascanius later realizes that they have accidentally accomplished it using bread.
Aeneas
Turnus
eating their tables [accept synonyms or equivalents for “eating” like “gnawing”]
The Liver of Piacenza unusually doesn’t contain the name of Sethlans, the Etruscan god of this domain. For 10 points each:
Identify this domain, whose Caananite god Kothar-wa-Khasis created two clubs for Ba’al. Gods who have this role, like Hephaestus and Vulcan, often make tools and weapons at their forges.
In the Kalevala, this Finnish smith-god builds himself a golden wife who disappoints him. More famously, Vainamoinen asks him to craft the Sampo for Louhi.
This master smith appears in various sagas and Germanic legends, one of which details his capture by the evil king Nidhad. In the Volsung saga, he is said to have forged the sword Gram.
blacksmiths [or smithing gods, or other synonymous equivalents; prompt on “craftsmen” or similar]
Seppo Ilmarinen
Wayland the Smith [or Volundr]
Answer the following about the legendary warrior prince Yamato Takeru, for 10 points each.
As the son of the Emperor Keiko, Yamato Takeru was a twelfth-generation descendant of this first legendary emperor of Japan, who was guided by a three-legged crow to the province of Yamato.
Like the rest of the line of Jimmu, Yamato Takeru was said to be descended through Ninigi from this kami of the sun, who often feuded with her brother Susano’o.
Yamato-Takeru subjugated the rebellious eastern provinces with the help of the sword Kusanagi, which Susano’o had originally taken from the body of this eight-headed dragon.
Jimmu Tenno [or Kamu-Yamato-iware-biko]
Amaterasu-omikami [or Ōhirume-no-muchi-no-kami]
Yamata-no-Orochi
Answer the following about the labors of Heracles, for 10 points each.
Eurystheus claimed that Heracles had cheated by rerouting the rivers Alpheus and Peneus to clean out the stables of this king of Elis, and so the labor didn’t count.
After his fairly effortless defeats of the Nemean Lion and the Hydra, Heracles spent a full year chasing this animal, which was sacred to Artemis, across Europe.
During his final labor, Heracles encountered Pirithous and Theseus, freeing the latter, while traveling through the underworld to retrieve this three-headed dog from the court of Hades.
Augeas [or Augeias; or the Augean Stables]
the Ceryneian Hind [or Cerynitis; or the Golden Hind]
Cerberus [or Kerberos]
When this figure meets Modgud, she tells him that he made as much noise crossing Gjallarbru as the “five companies of dead men” who’d crossed it the previous day. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Odin who, at Frigg’s behest, travels the road to Hel. He eventually returns with Draupnir and some gifts for other gods.
Hermod is initially sent to Hel in order to find a way to revive this beautiful member of the Aesir, who had previously been killed with a mistletoe dart thrown by his blind brother Hodr.
Hermod rides to Hel on the back of this eight-legged child of Loki and Svadilfari.
Hermodr
Baldr [or Baldur]
Sleipnir
Answer the following about varying accounts of the infancy of Zeus, for 10 points each.
Most stories agree that for at least some time, he was hidden in a cave on Mount Ida by this Titaness, his mother, who had earlier tricked her husband Cronus out of eating him.
Some stories claim that the Kouretes danced and banged their shields to cover Zeus’s cries while he was being raised by this she-goat, whose horn later became the cornucopia.
In other stories, a nymph named Adamanthea did this to Zeus to hide him from Cronus, who had power over earth, the sea, and the sky and would thus have been able to see anything technically on or in those places.
Rhea
Amalthea
she suspended him from a tree with a rope [accept equivalents that mention a form of hanging and a tree; or descriptive metaphors like “she bear-bagged him”]
Like Sobek, he was a son of the war goddess Neith. For 10 points each: 
Name this serpent who attacks Ra's solar barge each night.
This fiendish desert god helps Ra fight Apep each night. This god killed and dismembered his  brother Osiris, after which he fought a protracted war with his nephew Horus over control of Egypt. 
After Set ate some of this foodstuff in which had Horus had ejaculated, Horus was able to call his  semen from within Set and thus prove his superiority over him. 
Apep [or Apophis] 
Seth 
lettuce
Francois Fenelon wrote a novel about the adventures of this character as a critique of the reign of King  Louis XIV. For 10 points each: 
Identify this character who lends his name to the first four sections of the poem in which he appears.  Several people tell this young man about the story of Orestes to urge him to take action. 
Telemachus is spurred on his quest and accompanied by this old man, who is actually Athena in  disguise. This character's name has developed into an English word meaning an experienced guide. 
Telemachus is the son of this hero, who makes a really long journey back home after the Trojan War  in an epic poem by Homer. 
Telemachus [or The Adventures of Telemachus; or Les Aventures de Telemaque] 
Mentor
Odysseus [or Ulysses] 
Identify the following about people in Greek mythology named Glaucus, for 10 points each. 
This Cretan king had a son named Glaucus who drowned in a jar of honey, after which this man  forced Polyidus to revive him with a herb. This king's wife Pasiphae gave birth to a half-bull, half-man  monster. 
The witch Circe attempted to win the affections of a fisherman-turned-sea-god named Glaucus, but  she turned this nymph into a six-headed monster out of jealousy because Glaucus only loved her. 
A son of Sisyphus named Glaucus was killed by some of these animals, and later returned as a ghost  that haunted these animals during the Isthmian Games. 
Minos 
Scylla 
horses
Heracles once threatened to shoot this god because it was too hot. For 10 points: 
Name this son of the Titan Hyperion, who drove the Sun across the sky each day. 
Helios's own son Phaeton persuaded his father to let him use one of these objects, but Phaeton failed to control the horses that pulled it and had to be killed by Zeus before he did too much damage. 
According to Euripides, Medea escaped this city with the help of a chariot sent by her grandfather  Helios after she killed her children. Other sources state that this city's inhabitants killed Medea's children. 
Helios 
solar chariots 
Corinth 
This woman returned to life after Heracles defeated Thanatos in a wrestling match. For 10 points each: 
Name this wife of Admetus, who offered to die after the Fates offered to spare Admetus's life in exchange for the life of another person. 
Out of all the daughters of this man, Alcestis was the only one who did not participate in his accidental killing. This king of Iolcus sent his nephew to retrieve the Golden Fleece. 
This daughter of Aeetes and lover of Jason convinced the daughters of Pelias that they could rejuvenate him by chopping him up and throwing his remains in a boiling cauldron. 
Alcestis 
Pelias 
Medea 
Identify the following about an incident in the life of the Sumerian sage Adapa, for 10 points each. 
Adapa got himself in trouble with Anu for breaking the wing of a god of these things. In Greek  mythology, the West one of these things is personified by Zephyrus, and they are governed by Aeolus. 
Ea told his son Adapa to never eat the food of the gods and gave him advice on how to pass this  guard of the heavenly gates. This husband of Ishtar was forced to remain in the underworld for six  months each year. 
Adapa unfortunately followed Ea's advice and refused Anu's offer of food and drink, which would  have done this to him. Athena refused to perform this action on Tydeus after the latter ate the brains of  Melanippus.
wind god [or South wind; or anemoi] 
Tammuz [or Dumuzi]
making him immortal [or logical equivalents; accept making him into a god or equivalents] 
This god gave up one of his eyes at the Well of Mimir to gain wisdom. For 10 points each: 
Name this chief god of Norse mythology, who also gained knowledge of runes by hanging himself  from Yggdrasil for nine days while pierced with a spear. 
This eight-legged horse who beat Hrungnir's horse Gullfaxi in a race serves as Odin's steed. 
Odin's death during Ragnarok will be avenged by his son Vidar, who will kill Fenrir with a shoe made  from this material. Before Ragnarok, Vidar slowly gathers pieces of this material that men have thrown  away. 
Odin [or Woden; or Wotan; or Wodinaz] 
Sleipnir 
Leather
The "lost" member of this group was either Merope, who married Sisyphus, or Electra, who grieved at the fall of Troy. For 10 points each: 
Name this group of seven sisters who were turned into stars after being pursued by Orion. 
This companion to Artemis was turned into a bear after she was raped by Zeus. Her son Arcas was about to kill his mother in bear form before Zeus turned both of them into Ursa Major and Ursa Minor. 
This dog, who always managed to catch his prey, was transformed into Canis Major after he was caught in a paradox trying to catch the Teumessian Fox, who could always evade his captors. 
Pleiades 
Callisto 
Laelaps
According to Ovid, this god sent an eagle to retrieve the remains of the slain Ophiotaurus and burned  them to ensure the Olympians' victory in the Titanomachy. For 10 points each: 
Name this youngest son of Kronos, whose domain is the sky. This Greek God wields the  thunderbolt. 
Zeus was hidden in a cave on Mount Ida where he was raised by this she-goat. The Cornucopia is  sometimes said to have originated from a broken horn belonging to this figure. 
According to some sources, Zeus was hung from one of these objects to ensure that he was not in  the sea, on land, or in the sky, and thus invisible to Kronos, who ruled over those three domains.
Zeus [or Jupiter; or Jove] 
Amalthea 
trees
This man laments the death of a friend who is cursed by the gods, and afterwards becomes fearful of death himself and seeks out Utnapishtim, the survivor of a great flood. For 10 points each: 
Name this divine king whose tyrannical rule over the city of Uruk leads the gods to create the wild man Enkidu to oppose him. He is the namesake of an ancient Sumerian epic. 
Enkidu is tamed by Shamhat, who is a devotee of this goddess. This goddess asks her parents Anu and Antu to send the Bull of Heaven to attack Gilgamesh in revenge for his rejection of her romantic advances. 
Gilgamesh and Enkidu go on a quest to defeat this ogre, whom Enlin created to guard the Cedar Forest. Enlil is angry over the killing of this monster, and exacts revenge by killing Enkidu. 
Gilgamesh [or Epic of Gilgamesh] 
Ishtar [or Inanna] 
Humbaba [or Huwawa] 
Answer these following about practices introduced in Greek mythology, for 10 points each. 
A chariot pulled by serpents helped Triptolemus travel around educating Greeks about this practice, which was the domain of Demeter. 
This man was said to have introduced beekeeping to ancient Greece. When his bees were dying, the gods instructed him to leave out cattle carcasses, in which he later found hives of healthy bees. 
Oeneus, a ruler of this city, introduced winemaking to parts of Greece. When Oeneus forgot to sacrifice to Artemis, Artemis sent a huge boar to this city that only Atalanta and Meleager could wound and kill. 
agriculture [or farming; or cultivation] 
Aristaeus 
Calydon [accept "Calydonian Boar (Hunt)"; do not accept "Calydonia"]  
This man is first encountered in his hunt for the Questing Beast. For 10 points each: 
Name this father of Percival, who manages to shatter the Sword in the Stone during a duel. This man  was tasked with retrieving a woman who was seized by a knight during Guinevere's wedding feast. 
During the wedding feast, this brother of Gareth and Gaheris was tasked with retrieving a hart that  appeared shortly before the woman's kidnapping. In a Middle English poem, he engages in a beheading  game with Bertilak. 
This husband of Guinevere received Excalibur after the sword he pulled from the stone was  shattered, and he assigned Pellinore and Gawain their respective tasks during the wedding feast. 
King Pellinore 
Gawain 
King Arthur Pendragon
Identify the following about the various times Ares got humiliated, for 10 points each. 
Ares left Troy and went back to Olympus to whine to Zeus after he got stabbed in the stomach by  this Greek soldier. This man also crushed the hip of Aeneas and wounded the hand of Aphrodite. 
These two giants, the sons of Iphimedia and Poseidon, trapped Ares in a bronze jar for thirteen  months. They also planned to reach Olympus by piling Mount Helion on top of Mount Ossa, but died  before that happened. 
This lame god trapped Ares in bed with his wife Aphrodite, after which all the gods laughed at  them. This god was thrown out of Olympus by Hera because she found him too ugly. 
Diomedes 
Otus and Ephialtes [accept in either order; or the Aloadae] 
Hephaestus 
The Zoroastrian monster Azi Dahaka was defeated by the god of this phenomenon. For 10 points each: 
Name this phenomenon, which some Zoroastrians worshipped as a divinity called Atar. 
In Norse mythology, this trickster god was unable to beat Logi, the personification of fire, in an  eating contest. He was bound with the guts of his son Narfi after tricking Hodr into killing Baldr. 
This Hindu god of fire is often depicted with seven tongues that lick the sacrificial ghee offered to  him. In the Mahabharata, this god burns the Khandava Forest after becoming weak from ingesting too  much ghee. 
fire
Loki 
Agni
Homer's mention of "Potnia Theron," a goddess of animals, is believed to be a reference to this deity. 
Name this Greek goddess of virginity and the hunt who was the equivalent of the Roman Diana. She and her twin brother Apollo were the children of Leto.
Apollo and Artemis killed the children of this woman in response to her boast that her twelve children were superior to Leto's two.
Artemis tricked the giants Otus and Ephialtes into killing each other by turning into one of these animals and running between them. In another story, she turned Actaeon into one.
Artemis
Niobe
deer [accept stag]
This man was blinded and crippled after falling onto the plains of Aleion during an ill-fated and hubristic attempt to reach the top of Mount Olympus. 
Name this hero of Greek mythology who married Philonoe after successfully completing an ostensible suicide mission set by King Iobates at the behest of Proetus of Tiryns.
Bellerophon's most famous accomplishment is the slaying of this fire-breathing Lycian creature, which had a snake for a tail. It also had the heads of a lion and a goat.
Bellerophon defeated the Chimera with the help of this divine winged horse.
Bellerophontes
the Chimera
Pegasus
Name these Knights of the Round Table
This "Knight of the Cart" was raised by the Lady of the Lake. He serves as King Arthur's greatest champion before his affair with Guinevere.
This illegitimate son of Lancelot is the only knight pure enough to sit in the Siege Perilous and thus is able, after much questing, to see the Holy Grail.
While Chretien de Troyes was writing Lancelot, Knight of the Cart, he was also working on a romance about this "Knight of the Lion," the son of King Urien and Morgan le Fay.
Sir Lancelot du Lac [or Launcelot; or Lancelin]
Sir Galahad [or Galeas; or Galath]
Sir Ywain [or Owain, or Yvain]
Blaming the sun-god Apollo for his troubles, this character blinds himself so that he can never see light again. 
Name this king who threatens Teiresias and Creon, who is eventually revealed to have killed his father and married his mother.
Oedipus rules this plague-stricken city on Mount Cithaeron, which he once freed from the brutal rule of a sphinx.
Aristotle described Oedipus's hubris as this kind of personal fault, which causes the downfall of a tragic hero.
Oedipus [or Oedipus Rex; or Oedipus Tyrannos]
Thebes [or Baccheia]
hamartia [or tragic flaw; or fatal flaw]
An older goddess associated with these animals was Mafdet, who was responsible for killing serpents and other venomous animals. 
Name these domesticated animals that were widely revered in ancient Egypt, especially among the cult of the goddess Bastet, who had the head of one of them.
This lion-headed goddess, the consort of Ptah, was the Upper-Egyptian equivalent of Bastet. In one story, Ra gets her drunk to prevent her from slaughtering humanity.
Sekhmet is often considered to be the more warlike aspect of this otherwise-peaceful cow goddess, who was associated with the Milky Way and the yearly floods of the Nile.
cats [or mau; or felines; or lions]
Sekhmet [or Sachmis]
Hathor [or Hesat]
This god is depicted as the Lord of the Dance in the Nataraja form. 
Name this blue-throated Hindu deity whose consort is Parvati. This god is typically considered the "destroyer" in contrast with Brahma as "creator" and Vishnu as "preserver."
Brahma the creator, Vishnu the preserver, and Shiva the destroyer are collectively referred to in Hinduism with this term, which means "three forms."
The incarnations of Vishnu to earth as Matsya, Kurma, and Krishna are referred to with this term. Vishnu is set to appear again in this form as Kalki to bring about the end of the Kali Yuga.
Shiva
trimurti
avatars
Ovid's version of the origin of these people describes how King Aeacus of Aegina's request for repopulation resulted in Zeus creating them from a host of ants. 
Name this group of highly skilled warriors, led during the Trojan War by the bosom companion of Patroclus.
This leader of the Myrmidons kills the Trojan champion Hector, but later dies when an arrow hits him in the heel.
Achilles is killed by this Trojan prince, whose abduction of Helen from the court of Menelaus kicked off the Trojan War. He also presents Aphrodite with a certain golden apple.
the Myrmidons
Achilles
Paris [or Alexander]
One of these creatures is said to be the companion of Chang'e, spending its time pounding out the elixir of life with a mortar and pestle for her. 
Identify these creatures that, in many Asian and Mesoamerican mythologies, are said to live on the moon, due to a pattern of dark patches on the moon resembling them.
According to myths of these people, the shape on the moon comes from either a rabbit being thrown in the face of the god Tecciztecatl, or from Quetzalcoatl elevating one to the heavens.
A non-lunar hare is saved from a flaying by Okuninushi, the son-in-law of this Shinto storm god who often feuds with his sister Amaterasu.
rabbits [or hares, bunny/ies, etc.]
the Aztecs [or Azteca]
Susano'o [or Susanowo; or His-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness]
During a meeting at Mecone, this figure tricks Zeus into taking the fat-covered bones, rather than the meat, as the part of an ox that should be sacrificed to the gods. 
Name this Titan who is later chained to a rock, where he suffers an eagle pecking at his liver, for the crime of stealing fire from the gods for humanity.
When Zeus sends a flood to destroy humanity, Prometheus helps this man, his son, survive the flood along with his wife Pyrrha.
The most famous myths about Prometheus were included in Works and Days and the Theogony, two poems by this Greek contemporary of Homer.
Prometheus
Deucalion
Hesiod
This event will be preceded by a succession of three winters known as the Fimbulvetr, and the only humans to survive it will be Lif and Lifthrasir.
Name this apocalyptic event in Norse mythology, marked by a battle at the field of Vigrid between the gods and the jotuns that goes poorly for the former.
At RagnarÃ¶k, Odin will be swallowed whole by this creature, who will have broken free of the chain Gleipnir. This wolf will then be torn in half by Odin's son Vidarr.
Fenrir was originally chained only when this god agreed to put his hand in the wolf's mouth. Naturally, upon being chained Fenrir angrily bit this god's hand off.
RagnarÃ¶k [or RagnarÃ¸kkr]
Fenrir [or Fenrisulfr; or Fenris wolf]
Tyr [or Tiwaz]
This character's preference for the Palatine Hill as the site of a new city sparked a quarrel with his brother, whose choice was the Aventine Hill. 
Name this son of Mars and Rhea Silvia, who founded the city of Rome after killing his brother Remus.
In order to balance out his mostly-male population, Romulus ordered the abduction of women from this neighboring tribe, whose king Titus Tatius later became co-ruler of Rome.
This man was elected as the second king of Rome as a compromise between factions loyal to Romulus and Titus. He received divine guidance from the nymph Egeria.
Romulus
the Sabines
Numa Pompilius
The Hindu festival Raksha Bandhan celebrates the importance the relationship between these sorts of people. For 10 points each:
Name this specific familial relationship, exemplified by such people like Scholastica and Benedict, Aaron and Miriam, and Susano-o and Amaterasu.
During Raksha Bandhan, a sister gives her brother a colorful rakhi, which is usually made of this substance. The Upanayana initiation ceremony bestows a boy with a three-stranded one of these that symbolized the three debts or devis.
Modern legends claim that this Hindu god’s sons Ksema and Labha were so jealous of those celebrating Raksha Bandhan that this god created Santoshi Mata for them. This son of Shiva and Parvati is usually depicted with an elephant head.
opposite-sex siblings [or brother and sister]
thread [or string, or small rope, I guess]
Ganesha
Plato claimed that she was the mother of Poros, or expediency, but most stories assert that she was only able to have one child, due to a prophecy that the second would be extremely powerful. For 10 points each:
Identify this Titaness representing wisdom, who was turned into a fly and swallowed by Zeus.
Nevertheless, this daughter of Metis sprang from Zeus’s forehead, fully-formed and fully armed. This virgin goddess advised many heroes and was identified with the Roman Minerva.
Athena won a competition against Poseidon to become the patron deity of Athens by offering the Athenians this botanical gift, which was judged superior to Poseidon’s creation of a saltwater spring.
Metis
Pallas Athena [or Athene]
an olive tree [prompt on partial answer; accept Olea europaea, I guess]
This man’s many efforts to troll mythical Greece included attempting to seduce Tyro in order to blamelessly kill her father Salmoneus and tricking Thanatos into chaining himself up, thus temporarily halting death. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Corinth whose hubristic cleverness eventually incurred, as punishment, the task of endlessly rolling a boulder almost all the way up a hill, only to see it roll back down.
Sisyphus was the son of Enarete and a Thessalian king of this name. Another character of this name lived on a floating island, where he gave a bag containing all winds except the west wind to Odysseus.
Sisyphus founded the Isthmian games after finding the body of this son of Athamas and Ino, which had been carried to Corinth by dolphins. This man was deified as Palaemon, the protector of ships.
Sisyphus
Aeolus [or Aiolos]
Melicertes
According to Aristotle by way of Plutarch, this character once told a captor that “the best thing for all men and women is not to be born”, and the second best thing, having been born, is “to die as quickly as possible”. For 10 points each:
Identify this pot-bellied drunk, a companion of Dionysus whose rescue by, and good treatment at the hands of, Midas earned that king the golden touch.
The braying of Silenus’s ass once foiled this dwarfish fertility god’s attempt to rape Hestia. This possessor of a constant erection also tried and failed to rape the nymph Lotis, who was turned into a lotus tree to escape him.
According to Hyginus, Priapus was the son of this god, who was himself a son of Zeus and Maia. His winged hat and sandals aided him in his role as messenger of the gods.
Silenus [or Seilenos]
Priapus [or Priapos; or Mutunus]
Hermes [or Mercury]
Four manifestations of this deity represented the four cardinal directions. For 10 points each:
Name this god who was worshipped at the Templo Mayor alongside Huitzilopochtli, and who ruled over people who died from water-related causes and the victims of child sacrifice.
Tlaloc was the rain and storm god of these Mesoamerican people, who fatally mistook the arrival of Hernán Cortés for the return of their feathered-serpent god Quetzalcoatl.
Tlaloc was very similar to the storm deity Cocijo, who was the chief god of this other pre-Columbian Mesoamerican civilization.
Tlaloc
Aztecs [or Aztecatl]
Zapotecs
This item’s fate is mirrored by that of a similar item belonging to Bata in the New Kingdom-era “Tale of Two Brothers”. For 10 points each:
Name this body part that, according to Plutarch, had to be either reconstructed by magic or replaced with a golden replica since, after it was removed from its owner and thrown into the Nile, it was eaten by an oxyrhynchus fish.
Unlike his penis, the rest of the scattered parts of Osiris’s body were recovered and reassembled by this goddess, Osiris’s wife.
Osiris’s soul was occasionally worshipped in its own right as the ram god Banebdjedet, who was considered to be the northern equivalent of this other ram-headed deity. This god created humanity at his potter’s wheel.
Osiris’s penis [accept synonyms for “penis” like “phallus” or “genitalia”; prompt on partial answer]
Isis
Khnum [or Khnemu]
Fragmentary Orphic rhapsodies describe the four daughters, including Philophrosyne and Eucleia, that this god fathered with his second wife, the Grace Aglaea. For 10 points each:
Name this lame Olympian god, worshipped at a cult based in Lemnos, who created Aphrodite’s girdle, Helios’s chariot, Pelops’s ivory shoulder, and many other items at his forge.
Hephaestus also crafted this awe-inspiring piece of armor, variously described as a shield or a breastplate, which bears Medusa’s head and is used by Athena and Zeus.
Hephaestus took pity on the blinded Orion and lent him this servant as a guide. Sitting on Orion’s shoulders, he guided the hunter towards the rising sun, which eventually restored the latter’s sight.
Hephaestus
the aegis
Cedalion [or Kedalion]
This god is the namesake of an early-August harvest festival held about three months before Samhain, and he impressed Nuada with his harp skills and by winning a flagstone-throwing contest against Ogma. For 10 points each:
Name this Celtic god who avenged Nuada’s death by killing Balor at the second battle of Magh Tuireadh, after which he became the leader of the Tuatha de Danaan.
Lugh inherited the sword Fragarach, “the Answerer”, from this psychopomp and sea god, his foster father. In another story, this son of the obscure deity Lir tempted Cormac mac Airt with a silver branch.
Mannanan’s wife Fand once had an affair with this son of Lugh. This wielder of the Gae Bulg is known for his fearsome battle frenzy, which he used to defend Ulster from the armies of Medb during the Cattle Raid of Cooley.
Lugh Lamhfhada [or Lug of the Long Arm; accept Lugus or Lleu Llaw Gyffes]
Mannanan mac Lir [accept Manawydan mac Llyr]
Cuchulainn [or Cuhullin; or Setanta]
Achilles did a lot of damage before that cowardly doofus Paris shot him in the heel. Name some of his victims, for 10 points each.
In light of a prophecy claiming that Troy would not fall until this youngest son of Priam was killed, Athena advised Achilles to kill him ASAP. Later legends detail this character’s love for an unfaithful daughter of Calchas.
Achilles killed the ugly Greek soldier Thersites for jeering at him while he was mourning this Amazonian queen, whom he had also killed.
Most famously, Achilles avenged the death of his companion Patroclus by killing this Trojan prince after first chasing him around the walls of Troy three times.
Troilus
Penthesilea
Hector
Two of them, Jurojin and Fukurokujo, are sometimes said to inhabit the same body, while another of them, Benzaiten, is the biwa-carrying equivalent of Saraswati. For 10 points each:
Identify this group of deities which also includes the hammer-wielding Daikokuten and Ebisu, the god of fishermen. They are usually depicted on the Takarabune, or “treasure ship”.
Many stories identify Ebisu with Hiroku, the boneless “leech child” who was the failed first offspring of these two gods. When these two gods later got the marriage ritual right, they created Amaterasu and Susano’o.
Izanami and Izanagi are the major figures in the creation myth of this Japanese religion, which venerates kami.
the Seven Lucky Gods [or the Shichi Fukujin]
Izanami-no-mikoto and Izanagi-no-mikoto [both needed; either order is fine; prompt on partial answer]
Shintoism [accept word forms; prompt on “kami-no-michi”]
This god can often be found meditating in his home at the summit of Mount Kailash. For 10 points each:
Identify this god who swallowed the Halahala poison generated by the churning of the ocean. This husband of Parvati and father of Ganesh is the “destroyer” of the Hindu Trimurti.
Shiva is often depicted as Nataraja, who performs the “cosmic” type of this action atop Apasmara, the dwarf of ignorance. Another type of this activity was supposedly created by the goddess Laka in order to entertain Pele.
Shiva was often identified with this earlier Vedic deity of wind and the hunt, who fathered a large number of fierce iron-toothed storm deities called the Maruts with one of his consorts, the goddess Prisni.
Shiva [accept Shiv or Siva or Mahadeva or, god knows, like nine hundred other things]
dance [accept word forms; anti-prompt on “hula”]
Rudra
One of these creatures creates day and night by opening and closing his eyes, while another was employed to kill the warlike Chi You by the Yellow Emperor and also killed the demon Kua Fu. For 10 points each:
Name these mythical creatures, examples of which include the aforementioned Zhulong and Yinglong. In China, they were depicted as being much more serpentlike than their fire-breathing European equivalents.
Chinese dragons are generally considered to be male; their feminine counterparts are these mythical phoenix-like birds.
Chinese spirits called “huli jing”, one of which possessed King Zhou’s concubine Da Ji, took the form of a nine-tailed version of this animal. In Japanese mythology, the kitsune who served Inari were this type of animal.
Chinese dragons [prompt on “long”]
fenghuang
foxes [accept volpines]
Identify the following people encountered by Odysseus and his crew, for 10 points each.
After this guy spurns xenia and eats a bunch of Odysseus’s crew, Odysseus gets him drunk, blinds him, and then claims to be named “outis”, or “nobody”. Later stories describe this Cyclops’s unrequited love for Galatea.
Hesiod claims that Odysseus fathered two sons, Nausithous and Nausinous, with this nymph during the seven years he spent as a hostage on her island of Ogygia.
Eleven of Odysseus’s twelve ships are destroyed by these large cannibals, who live on the island of Telepylus and are ruled by King Antiphates.
Polyphemus
Calypso
the Laestrygonians [or Laestrygones]
A whole lot of people get killed in Norse mythology. Answer the following about some of them, for 10 points each.
This god’s continuous conflict with Jörmungandr, the Midgard Serpent, leads to their mutual destruction at Ragnarök. This god of thunder carries the hammer Mjölnir.
Loki tricks this hapless blind god into killing his brother Baldur with a dart made of mistletoe. Vali was then conceived, born, and raised to adulthood in a single day to revenge-kill this poor guy.
After Fenrir eats Odin at Ragnarök, this son of Odin uses his incredibly thick shoe to help tear Fenrir’s jaws apart, killing the wolf.
Thor [or Donar; or Thunor; or Thunraz]
Hödr [or Hod; or Hodur]
Vidarr [or Vitharr]
This man created a list of deities’ official names called the indigitamenta, and he was reportedly advised by the nymph Egeria. For 10 points each:
Name this semimythical Sabine-born second King of Rome, chosen as a compromise candidate between factions loyal to Tatius and Romulus.
Numa also introduced the Salii, a group of “leaping priests” dedicated to this father of Romulus and Remus, the Roman god of war.
Numa also built a famous temple to this deity, the doors of which were closed in times of peace and opened in times of war. He is the god of beginnings and transitions, as he can see the past and future simultaneously.
Numa Pompilius
Mars [prompt on “Ares”]
Janus
Following the wedding of Pirithous to Hippodamia, these creatures engaged in a battle with the Lapiths that resulted in the death of Caeneus. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures in Greek mythology who had the torsos of humans but the lower bodies of horses. One of them, Chiron, tutored many young heroes like Jason and Achilles.
The first centaurs were created when this man, who lusted after Hera, mated with the cloud nymph Nephele who had been made to take Hera's form.
As punishment for Ixion's advances on his wife, Zeus had him bound to a wheel with this phenomenon. This was used by Heracles to seal the Hydra's heads shut, and was given to mankind by Prometheus.
centaurs
Ixion
fire [accept equivalents, like "it's burning"]
Certain mythological figures met their ends in bizarre fashions. For 10 points each:
This son of Odin and Frigg was killed by a dart of mistletoe, the only object on earth that didn't vow to hurt him. His funeral took place on the seashore and his body was burned on Hringhorn, the largest ship in the world.
This Irish hero, also known as the Hound of Ulster, was weakened by eating dog meat before being killed. He died fighting the armies of Connacht and tied himself to a tree so that he would die standing up.
This Ancient Greek hero was killed when Zephyrus blew Apollo's discus throw off course. Apollo created a namesake flower from this youth's blood.
Baldr
CÃºchulainn [accept Setanta]
Hyacinthus
Answer the following about the mythology of the Korean peninsula, for 10 points each:
One Korean creation story relates how one of these animals entered a cave and ate a lot of garlic, turning into a woman who went on to marry the Prince of Heaven. The sinews of one of these mammals was used to bind Fenrir.
It's not water, but the folk goddess mulhalmoni presided over this domain. It was also the domain of a son of Apollo named Asclepius who was killed by Zeus for raising the dead.
An important animal in Korean myth was a raven with three of these body parts. The sphinx's riddle that Oedipus solved asked about a creature that has four, then two, then three of these. A horse has four.
bears
healing or medicine [accept anything related to improving health]
legs [accept feet]
With Menelaus, one hero from here carried the body of Patroclus off of the battlefield and won the archery contest at his funeral games. For 10 points each:
Name this island home to Meriones and his half-brother Idomeneus, who led this location's forces at Troy. Sarpedon and Rhadamanthys were the brothers of the most famous ruler of this island.
The aforementioned ruler of this island failed to sacrifice a bull given to him by Poseidon, resulting in his wife giving birth to this human-bull hybrid monster. Daedalus built a labyrinth to contain this beast.
Theseus, the slayer of the Minotaur, was given a sword and a ball of thread by this daughter of Minos to aid him in his task. He later abandoned her on the island of Naxos, where Dionysus found her.
Crete
Minotaur
Ariadne
The sea goddess of these people married a dog, causing her father Anguta to cut off her fingers as she held on to the side of a boat. For 10 points each:
Name this group of people who venerated that goddess, Sedna, who later came to rule over the underworld of Adlivun.
In Roman mythology, this son of Venus entered the underworld with the help of the Cumaean Sibyl, who informed him that he needed to retrieve a branch made of gold to offer to Proserpina.
This hero traveled to the underworld in order to find his wife Eurydice after she died of a snakebite. His sweet music won him his wife back, but only under the condition that he would not look back at her as they left Hades.
Inuits [accept Eskimos but inform teams that this term is racist]
Aeneas
Orpheus
He was born from the incestuous relationship between Myrrha and her father Cinyras, and may have emerged from the tree his mother turned into. For 10 points each:
Name this handsome youth who was loved by both Aphrodite and Persephone, before being gored to death by a boar. His name is now commonly used to refer to attractive young men.
Some sources state that it was this figure who sent the boar that killed Adonis. This god transformed Alectryon into a rooster because the boy had failed to keep his affair with his brother's wife secret.
After murdering Halirrhothius for raping his daughter Alcippe, Ares was put on trial in this city on a rock now named for him. This city was named after the goddess of wisdom, who gifted it with an olive tree.
Adonis
Ares
Athens
This figure murdered Fimafeng, a servant of Aegir, during a feast hosted by that god. For 10 points each:
Name this trickster figure from Norse mythology, who also turned into a mare and mated with a stallion named Svadilfari before giving birth to the horse Sleipnir.
Loki's relationship with the giantess Angrboda produced the children Fenrir, Hel, and a monstrous serpent named for this realm of mortals that sits on the other side of a rainbow bridge across from Asgard.
Thor once went fishing for the Midgard Serpent, using the head of one of these animals as bait. A primordial one of these nourished Ymir and licked some ice to give life to Buri, the first Norse god.
Loki
Midgard
cows [Accept oxen.]
Robert Emerson Lucas Jr. [accept Lucas critique or Lucas island model]
According to a Russian tale, this glowing avian creature angered the Tsar by stealing golden apples that grew from a tree in his garden. Assisted by a heroic wolf, the Tsar's son Ivan captured this creature.
This fleet-footed huntress from Greek mythology, famous for being the first to pierce the the Calydonian boar, was distracted during a footrace when Hippomenes dropped golden apples in her path.
The Trojan War was started by Aphrodite offering this Trojan prince Helen's hand in marriage under the condition that he award her Eris' golden apple of discord. He later shot Achilles in the heel.
the Firebird
Atalanta
 Paris
This figure had nine mothers called the Billow Maidens, who were all daughters of Aegir. For 10 points each:
Name this watchman of the Norse gods. He stood guard over the bridge of Bifrost and had ears so keen that he could hear the grass growing.
Heimdall owned the Gjallarhorn, which he was prepared to blow to signal this event. This massive battle between the gods and the forces of Muspellheim saw the deaths of Thor, Odin, Heimdall, and almost everyone else.
This fire giant led the forces of Muspellheim at Ragnarok. Wielding a flaming sword, this husband of Sinmara killed Freyr and brought forth flames that swallowed the world.
Heimdallr
Ragnarok
Surtr
This hero's hairy bottom once caused a pair of mischievous creatures called the Cercopes to break out in laughter. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek hero who was driven mad by Hera, resulting in his killing of his children by Megara. In penance, he was forced to serve his cousin Eurystheus in various labors.
During one of his labors, Heracles encountered a group of these animals that liked to feed on humans. He punished their owner by feeding him to these creatures, immortal examples of which include Balius and Xanthus.
While Heracles did not actually die, he was forced to climb onto his own funeral pyre to escape the pain caused when this centaur convinced Deianira to coat his robe with Hydra poison.
Heracles
horses [Accept mares of Diomedes.]
Nessus
After this man returns from the Trojan War, he is murdered by his wife Clytemnestra so that Aegisthus can take the throne. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the House of Atreus whose name titles the first part of the Oresteia. His death is avenged by his children, Orestes and Electra.
Agamemnon and the rest of the Oresteia are tragedies by this Greek playwright. Eteocles and Polynices feud for the throne in his play Seven Against Thebes.
In the final play of the Oresteia, the Furies torment Orestes for his role in the death of his mother, and take him to this hill, where Athena convenes a jury. A pamphlet opposing censorship by John Milton is named for this place.
Agamemnon
Aeschylus
the Areopagus
During an attack on this city, one of the assailants shocked Athena by eating the brains of Melanippus, thinking that they would heal him. For 10 points each:
Name this seven-gated city founded by Cadmus. It was also the home of Oedipus and Jocasta.
Polynices traveled to this city, which was ruled by Adrastus at the time, in order to recruit the Seven Against Thebes. It was founded either by the river god Inachus or his son Phoroneus.
The aforementioned cannibal, Tydeus, was the father of this Greek hero, better known for leading Argos in the Trojan War. He helped Odysseus to steal the horses of Rhesus and the Palladium.
Thebes
Argos
Diomedes
This woman was forced to sit beside her husband's gates and carry passersby on her back after being framed for infanticide. For 10 points each:
Name this lady of Dyfed, who married Manawydan after the death of her husband Pwyll. This mother of Pryderi helped her husband invent the game of Badger-in-the-Bag.
Rhiannon is a figure from the mythology of this country, whose other heroes include Gwydion and Bran the Blessed. King Arthur appears in many of its stories, some of which are collected in The Mabinogion.
Pwyll first saw Rhiannon riding a white one of these animals. Pegasus was a winged one from Greek mythology.
Rhiannon
Wales [or Cymru]
horses
Answer the following about blacksmiths in mythology, for 10 points each:
This Greek god of the forge had a workshop on Lemnos, which is where he hit the ground after being thrown out of Olympus. He once tried to rape Athena but failed, instead fathering Erechthonius with Gaia.
The most famous Norse smith, Wayland, forged the sword Gram that was later wielded by this hero. This foster-son of Regin killed the dragon Fafnir and rescued a valkyrie from a ring of fire.
Goibniu is the smith god in this island's mythology. An assassin named Ruadan was sent to kill him during the Second Battle of Magh Tuiredh, during which the Tuatha de Danaan fought the Fomorians.
Hephaestus [do not accept "Vulcan"]
Sigurd [or Siegfried]
Ireland [or Ã‰ire]
When this figure refused to sleep with the queen of Tiryns, she accused him of attempted rape.
Name this hero from Greek myth who received a golden bridle from Athena after sleeping in her temple on advice from the seer Polyeidus.
Bellerophon slew this fire-breathing monster with the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a snake by flying at it on Pegasus and ramming a lead block down its throat.
Bellerophon got cocky about having slain the Chimera and tried to fly to this mountain home of the Greek gods, but Zeus sent a gadfly to sting Pegasus, which caused him to fall.
Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
Chimera
Mount Olympus
Name some mythological bovine ladies,
This surly, "cow-eyed" Greek goddess frequently foils the best-laid adulterous plans of her husband, Zeus.
This young princess was stolen away to Crete when Zeus came to her in the form of a white bull. There, she gave birth to Minos, Rhadamanthes, and Sarpedon, all of whom became judges of the dead in Hades.
This nymph was transformed into a white heifer when Hera caught her in a liaison with Zeus. She was rescued from the hundred-eyed giant Argos by Hermes and eventually became an Egyptian goddess.
Hera [do not accept or prompt "Juno"]
Europa
Io
This man was struck blind by Hera.
Name this Theban prophet whose shade advises Odysseus to leave the cattle of Helios alone in Book 11 of the Odyssey.
Tiresias once struck two of these animals, which are depicted encircled around Hermes's staff Caduceus, when he saw them copulating on the road.
By striking the snakes, Tiresias displeased Hera, causing him to undergo this transformation, which allowed him to later report certain information about sex to Hera.
Tiresias
snakes [or serpents; accept equivalents]
changing gender [accept turning into a woman or any equivalent]
This man was trapped in a chair in the Underworld with his friend Pirithous after they tried to abduct Persephone.
Name this Greek hero who used some string given to him by Ariadne to navigate the Labyrinth and kill the Minotaur.
Theseus became ruler of this city following the death of his father Aegeus.
On his journey to Athens, Theseus bested many highwaymen, including this rogue smith who fit travelers onto one of his two beds by either stretching them or lopping off overhanging body parts.
Theseus
Athens
Procrustes
This city's Temple to Apollo once held an egg-shaped stone called the Omphalos.
Name this Greek city, which in ancient times held a famous Oracle whose advice was sought by rulers from countries throughout the Mediterranean.
The priestess of the Oracle at Delphi was given this name, in honor of the monstrous serpent that Apollo slew at Delphi.
This god had an oracle at Dodona, where rustling oak leaves were used to interpret his messages.
Delphi
Pythia
Zeus
This god was served by the Flamen Dialis.
Name this head of the Capitoline Triad and the Roman Pantheon, a god whose signs included the thunderbolt and the eagle.
This member of the Capitoline Triad was a virgin daughter of Jupiter. Her image was supposedly brought from Troy to Rome by Diomedes.
Many of the non-Greek aspects of Jupiter and Minerva derive from Tinia and Menvra, gods of this Italic people, a predecessor civilization to Rome.
Jupiter [or Jove; accept Zeus]
Minerva [accept Athena]
Etruscans [accept word forms]
This deity once lifted the foot of the Midgard Serpent in the guise of a cat.
Name this Norse god who owns the massive hammer Mjollnir and will kill and be killed by the Midgard Serpent at Ragnarok.
Thor is the Norse god associated with this loud natural phenomenon that, in Greek myth, accompanies bolts thrown by Zeus.
After killing Hrungnir, Thor gave Gullfaxi, a golden animal of this type, to his son Magni. 
Thor
thunder
horses
 In one story, this animal attempted to stay up all night so he could choose his own name. 
Name this canine animal from Native American folklore whose stories are sometimes attributed to Raven, and who created man by rolling a ball of mud.
Coyote often fills this role also performed by Anansi in African myth and Loki in Norse myth
This Native American trickster is a god of fertility with a detachable phallus who is usually depicted as a hunchbacked flute player.
coyote
 trickster god
Kokopelli
[missing]
 Name this neoclassical sculptor who crafted Psyche Revived by Cupid's Kiss. He was invited to Paris by Napoleon, where he created Napoleon as Mars the Peacemaker.
 Canova created a sculpture depicting Paulina Borghese as this figure "victorious". The most famous sculpture of this Roman goddess was discovered already armless on the island of Milos.
 Canova's marble depiction of this scene features a winged helmet and a cloak over one arm as in the Apollo Belvedere. Benvenuto Cellini's bronze sculpture of this scene in the Loggia dei Lanzi features a curved sword.
 Antonio Canova
 Venus [or Venus de Milo]
 Perseus with the Head of Medusa [or equivalents]
[missing]
 Name this Egyptian goddess who traveled to Byblos to recover a box for her husband Osiris, who was subsequently torn apart into fourteen pieces by his brother Set.
 After creating a magic phallus for Osiris, Isis conceived Horus, who later married this goddess of love. This goddess transformed into Sekhmet and ravaged Egypt until the Nile was filled with wine to make her drunk.
 This figure was the sister of Isis, Osiris, and Set. Some accounts of the birth of Anubis states that she was spurned by her husband Set and took on Isis' form before conceiving Anubis with Osiris.
 Isis
 Hathor
 Nephthys
[missing]
 Name this Aztec god of rain and water.
 This god kidnapped Xochiquetzal and eventually married her. This god lost one of his feet while battling the crocodile-monster Cipactli and was known as the "Smoking Mirror" due to his connection to obsidian.
 Through his second wife, Chalchiuhtlicue [chaal-chi-oot-li-cue], Tlaloc fathered Tecciztecatl, who represented this object. In Roman myth, it was represented by Luna.
 Tlaloc
 Tezcatlipoca
 the moon
[missing]
 Name these Japanese spirits, including Izanagi, who are revered in Shinto.
 When Izanami died she went to this Shinto underworld, where Izanagi traveled to bring her back. When he lit a fire with a tooth from his comb, he looked upon the decaying body of his wife and was chased out of this place.
 Izanagi bathed in a stream and wiped his eyes to create Tsukuyomi. Afterward, this storm god who ruled over the seas was born from Izanagi wiping his nose.
 kami [or Okami]
 Yomi
 Susanoo or Susanowo
[missing]
 This sorceress from Colchis fell in love with Jason and assisted him in stealing the Golden Fleece from her father, Aeetes. She clearly wasn't much of a family person, since she ended up killing her own children.
 This woman's father Agamemnon tried to sacrifice her sister Iphigenia in order to set sail from Aulis. She ended up helping in the murder of her mother Clytemnestra but managed to avoid the Furies, unlike her brother Orestes.
 This sea goddess from Inuit myth was the ruler of the underworld, Adlivun, to which her father Anguta ferried souls. Also a sea goddess, her father cut off her fingers as she clung to the side of a boat in an effort to drown her.
 Medea
 Electra
 Sedna
[missing]
 Name this King of Ayodhya, a member of the Ikshvaku Dynasty, who exiled one of his sons when Kaikeyi asked for her son, Bharata, to be heir to the throne. His other sons include Shatrugna and Rama.
 Another old man in Hinduism was Drona, who instructed this Pandava warrior. This son of Indra is a hero of the Mahabharata and converses with Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita.
 Drona taught Arjuna to use this weapon, which is also wielded by heroes like Heracles and Robin Hood.
 Dasaratha
 Arjuna
 the bow and arrow
[missing]
 Name this common trickster figure in the folklore of North America. Another story relates how he helped create the human race by kicking up mud.
 A Zuni myth relates how, while hunting together, Coyote and Eagle stole these two objects from the Kachinas but were unable to hold on to them when Coyote released them from their container.
 Stories from the Pacific Northwest relate how this creature once battled a whale that was depriving some villagers of food. Paired with rainfall, its namesake phenomenon originated when it dropped the whale into the sea.
 Coyote
 the Sun and Moon
 Thunderbird
[missing]
 Name this Norse saga that centers on the hero Sigurd, who slays Fafnir and enters into an ill-fated relationship with the family of Gudrun. Its German version is the Nibelungenlied.
 Sigurd's father Sigmund proved his worth by being the only man to be able to pull the sword Gram out of Branstock, which was one of these objects. Another one of these is a giant ash one called Yggdrasil.
 Fafnir, who was slain by Sigurd, was originally one of these creatures before becoming a monster. The brothers Brokk and Eitri were two of these beings who created Mjollnir and Skidbladnir.
 Volsunga Saga
 trees
 dwarves [or dvergar]
[missing]
 Name these black birds, two of which named Hugin and Munin are owned by Odin.
 This aforementioned Celtic war goddess is often depicted as three goddesses, Badb, Macha and Nemain.
 In The Dream of Rhonabwy, this ruler plays chess against his vassal Owain while Owain's ravens murder his soldiers. This man is the son of Uther Pendragon.
 ravens [Accept crows]
 the Morrigan
 King Arthur
[missing]
 Name this hero who escaped the destruction of Troy and established the city of Rome after defeating Turnus and the Rutulians in battle. He also visited his father Anchises in the underworld.
 In order to reach the underworld, Aeneas was required to present this mythological branch to Persephone as a gift. After Aeneas acquired this object, a new one grew in its place to foreshadow his successful journey.
 This woman advised Aeneas in his journey to the underworld. According to legend, she wrote her prophecies on oak leaves and offered nine books of them to Tarquinius.
 Aeneas
 the golden bough
 Cumaean Sibyl [or thee Sibyl of Cumae]
[missing]
 Name this mythological epic, transcribed from the manuscript of Francisco Ximenez, the beginning of which relates the creation of mankind by the creator gods Gucumatz and Tepeu. It also tells of the Hero Twins' journey.
 The Popol Vuh tells of the mythology of this Mesoamerican civilization. Their calendar is the basis for claims that the world will end in 2012.
 The heroes of the Popul Vuh, Hunahpu and Xbalanque, journey to this Mayan underworld in an adventure comprising the bulk of the epic.
 Popul Vuh
 Quiche Mayans
 Xibalba
[missing]
 Name this half-man, half-bull creature that lived in the Labyrinth.
 Theseus slew the Minotaur but accidentally forgot to change the sail of his ship as he sailed back to Athens, leading this man, his father, to kill himself by jumping into a namesake sea.
 A similar story occurs in Arthurian legend, in which this knight succumbs to his mortal wounds while waiting for a woman who was supposed to fly white sails. Earlier, he made enemies with King Mark.
 Minotaur
 Aegeus
 Sir Tristan or Sir Tristram
[missing]
 Name this Mayan god of rain.
 Chaac wields this weapon when striking the clouds to produce thunder and lightning. Sir Gawain and the Green Knight made a deal to chop each other's heads off with this weapon.
 The god Yu Shi functions as a rain deity in a myth system from this nation. This country's Taoist tradition includes the Eight Immortals as well as a heavenly ruler known as the Jade Emperor
 Chaac
 axe
 China
[missing]
 Name this monster, a Gorgon who had snakes for hair, who was slain by Perseus.
 This creature was born, along with Chrysaor, when Perseus beheaded Medusa.
 Name either of Medusa's two sisters, Gorgons who, unlike her, were immortal.
 Medusa
 Pegasus
 Stheno [or Euryale]
[missing]
 The Argonauts abandoned this hero while he was searching for his companion Hylas, who was abducted by a nymph. He was later given a robe laced with the poisoned blood of a centaur.
 This son of Daedalus tried to escape from Crete on feathered wings, but he died when he flew too high and the sun melted the wax that held his wings together.
 After establishing a kingdom in Epirus, Neoptolemus set off to marry this princess, the daughter of Menelaus and Helen. He was then killed by Orestes, this woman's original betrothed.
 Heracles
 Icarus
 Hermione
[missing]
 Members of this school of Greek philosophy sought to live by strict standards of Virtue taken from Nature. This school took its name from an insulting reference to its followers as dogs.
 This Cynic, a student of Antisthenes, lived in a barrel at the marketplace and expressed his contempt for the corruption of society by wandering in daylight with a lantern, looking for an honest man.
 This Sicilian pre-Socratic formulated the theory of the four classical elements and wrote about them being united by Love and split by Strife.
 Cynicism
 Diogenes of Sinope
 Empedocles
[missing]
 Name this horse, which was equally fast on land, water and air, that Hrungnir claimed would beat the eight-legged Sleipnir in a race.
 Sleipnir was owned by this god, known as the "all-father." He was married to Frigg and ruled over Asgard.
 Hrungnir was a member of this group of beings who lived in Jotunnheim. These large creatures also included Billing and Thiazi, and they are named in contrast to the fire giants led by Surtr.
 Gullfaxi
 Odin
  frost giants [or Hrimthurssar; prompt of giants.]
[missing]
 Name this Greek god of fire and the forge, the blacksmith of the Olympians.
 Hephaestus crafted a necklace for this wife of Cadmus. As this woman was the daughter of Hephaestus' wife Aphrodite with her lover Ares, Hephaestus laid a curse on the necklace and doomed Thebes to misfortune.
 This mortal daughter of Harmonia was the mother of Dionysus, and was tragically incinerated after Hera convinced her to request to see Zeus in all his divine glory.
 Hephaestus
 Harmonia
 Semele
This hero tried to ride to Mount Olympus, but he was foiled when the gods sent a gadfly. 
 Name this Greek hero who rode a flying horse to slay a monster that was a mixture of a lion, serpent, and goat. 
This was the flying horse that Bellerophon rode. 
This monster was the fearsome mixture of lion-serpent-goat that Bellerophon slew.
Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
Pegasus
the Chimera [or Khimaros] 
This god's mother, Frigg, made every object on Earth vow not to hurt him.
Name this Norse God of Light, whose brother Hodr killed him with a spear of mistletoe. 
In Norse myth, the death of Balder is seen as a precursor to this series of calamitous future events in which various gods will battle each other and die. 
 This God killed Hodr after the death of Baldr; along with Vidar, he survived Ragnarok.
Balder 
Ragnarok [prompt on Fate of the Gods or Twilight of the Gods or Gotterdammerung] 
Vali
After this god's mother Semele died, his father carried him to term within his thigh. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek god of wine and theater.
This father of Dionysus, the chief Greek deity, inadvertently killed Semele with lightning when she asked to see his true form.
Zeus handed Dionysus over to this god so he could find Dionysus a home. In the Odyssey, this god advised Odysseus to use the herb moly to resist Circe's potion.
Dionysus [or Bacchus]
Zeus
Hermes
This man put down a rebellion by eleven pretenders after an old wizard proclaimed him king. 
Name this legendary figure who wielded the sword Excalibur. 
 This man is the legendary father of Arthur by his enemy Gorlois's wife, Igraine. 
After Arthur was taken away by Merlin, this man took Arthur in as his foster brother. Arthur serves as this man's squire and unknowingly pulls the sword from the stone to replace this knight's sword. 
King Arthur
Uther Pendragon [accept either] 
Sir Kay [or Caius; or Kex] 
Enkidu and this figure travel to Cedar Mountain to defeat the monster Humbaba. 
Name this two-thirds immortal figure, the title subject of a Mesopotamian epic. 
 In the Epic of Gilgamesh, Utnapishtim relates how he and his wife gained this quality after they were saved from the great flood. In Greek myth, Chiron gave up this quality to free Prometheus. 
Chiron was, like Nessus, one of these half-man, half-horse creatures in Greek myth. 
Gilgamesh
 immortality [accept word forms; accept equivalents like living forever] 
centaurs 
Mythical figures in this country include Conchobar mac Nessa and Queen Maeve.
Name this country where Cu Chulainn repelled the forces of Connacht during the Cattle Raid of Cooley. 
This Celtic country's mythology includes the goddess Rhiannon, who appears in the Mabinogion. This country is also the source of much of early Arthurian legend. 
This country's mythology, which centers on the heroes Lemmenkainen and Vainamoinen, is told in Elias Lonnrot's compilation, the Kalevala. 
Ireland [or Eire; or Irish myth] 
Wales [or Cymru; or Welsh myth] 
Republic of Finland [or Suomi; or Finnish myth] 
This god's avatars included Rama and Krishna
Name this Hindu member of the Trimurti along with Brahma and Shiva.
In the Vedas, Vishnu was associated with this god who drank a lot of Soma before his battle with Vritra.
In the Hindu Trimurti, Vishnu played this role, as opposed to Brahma's role as "the creator."
Vishnu
Indra [or Sakra]
preserver [accept word forms like preservation]
One animal of this type wrapped itself around the staff of Asclepius. For 10 points each:
Name this type of creature, a large one of which Apollo slew at the site of the Delphic oracle.
Snakes formed the hair of this legendary female, the only mortal Gorgon, who could turn men to stone with her looks.
This staff of Apollo, later gifted to Hermes, had two intertwined snakes running up it.
snakes [or serpents; accept Python; accept dragons]
Medusa
the caduceus
The protector goddess Wadjet was often shown coiled on this deity's head.
Name this Egyptian creator god who was protected by Mehen against Apep during his voyage across the sky in the solar barge.
This god was originally also a protector of Ra, but was later syncretized with Apep after the popularization of the Cult of Horus, the son of the deity that this god killed.
Set killed this god, his brother, and cut his body into fourteen pieces. This god's wife, Isis, later reassembled him, and he became the god of the dead.
Ra [or Re]
Set [or Seth; or Setesh; or Sutekh; or Setekh; or Suty]
Osiris [or Asari; or Wesir]
This god's cult center was at Lemnos, where he landed after he was thrown from Olympus. For 10 points each:
Name this blacksmith god who created an invisible net to ensnare his wife and her lover, Ares.
Hephaestus' wife was this Greek goddess of love, who emerged from the sea fully formed near Paphos.
One of the many lovers of Aphrodite was this beautiful man, later turned into a god of beauty, who was killed out of jealousy by Ares, who gored him in the shape of a boar.
Hephaestus [or Vulcan]
Aphrodite [or Venus; or Cytherea; or Cypris]
Adonis [or Gauas; or Aos]
This man and a god bedded Aethra of Troezen, finally giving him the son he so desired. For 10 points each:
This King of Athens hid a sword and sandals under a rock to test the worth of his son, and the possession of those tokens allowed this man to identify the boy and save him from near death.
We know that this man was the son of Poseidon, but Aegeus considered him his own. This figure killed bandits like Sinis and Procrustes and made use of Ariadne's spool of thread to complete his most famous task.
On his way to Athens, Theseus fought multiple bandits, one of whom was this tool that would ask unsuspecting victims to wash his feet. He'd knock them off a cliff where a giant man-eating tortoise would devour them.
Aegeus
Theseus
Sciron or Sceiron
This deity hired a group of sailors, but they proved to be pirates so he turned their oars into serpents, so they jumped into the ocean and became dolphins. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus and Semele, the Greco-Roman god of wine and revelry.
Dionysus is often accompanied by troops of these creatures that are characterized by a mix of human, horse, and goat-like features. They also name the third type of ancient Athenian drama along with tragedy and comedy.
Dionysus rewarded King Midas with his golden touch because Midas took care of this drunken satyr, the tutor of Dionysus.
Dionysus [or Bacchus]
satyrs
Silenus
In Welsh Mythology, one of these animals owned by Palug haunts the Isle of Anglesey. 
The giant Utgard-Loki challenged Thor to lift the limbs of this animal, and when Thor failed, he learned it was not this animal, but actually the Midgard Serpent. Freya's chariot is pulled by Bygul and Trjegul, animals of this type.
This daughter of Ra mothered the moon goddess Khonsu. She has the head of a cat.
Greek cultures sometimes mixed Bast with Artemis, and Hermes and Thoth were combined to form Hermes Trismegistus. This is the term given to the process of combining theological traditions.
cats [or felines; accept clear knowledge equivalents]
Bastet
syncretization [accept word forms like syncretizing or syncretize or syncretism]
He was cuckolded by a bull after his wife Pasiphae hid inside a wooden cow. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus and Europa and father of Phaedra who ruled Crete.
This man was the builder of that wooden cow, as well as the labyrinth that housed the minotaur and the wings he and his son Icarus used to escape Crete.
This man was a brother of King Minos and a judge of the dead in the Greek underworld alongside Minos and Aeacus.
Minos 
Daedalus 
Rhadmanthus 
Her offspring include the Scorpion-man, the Fish-man, the Bull-man, and her later consort Kingu. For 10 points each:
Name this monster of primeval chaos whose original husband was Apsu.
In the Enuma Elish, both Tiamat and Kingu were slain by this figure, who was hailed with 50 names after acquiring the Tablets of Destiny.
Marduk was the patron deity of this Mesopotamian city, whose historical kings included Hammurabi.
Tiamat
Marduk
Babylon
This god killed his sister Coyolxauhqui and put her head in the sky, where it became the moon. For 10 points each:
Name this Aztec god of war who sprang fully formed from his mother's womb to defeat his sister and 400 brothers. His name means "Hummingbird on the left."
This earth goddess and mother of Huitzilopochtli is depicted wearing a skirt made of snakes. In many accounts, she is shamefully impregnated by a ball of feathers.
In some versions of that story, Coatlicue's children by the ball of feathers are Xolotl and this twin brother of his. The Aztecs thought HernÃ¡n Cortes was this feathered serpent god.
Huitzilopochtli
Coatlicue [or Teteoinan]
Quetzalcoatl
[missing]
Name this wife of Typhon and Greek "mother of all monsters," including Cerberus and the Chimera.
Another daughter of Echidna was this riddle-telling creature with the face of a woman, body of a lion, wings of an eagle, and tail of a serpent.
This other monstrous woman, often depicted wearing a snakeskin, devours children since Hera killed hers by Zeus.
Echidna
Sphinx
[missing]
This figure is often identified with the infrequently attested goddess Hlin. For 10 points each:
This figure is often identified with the infrequently attested goddess Hlin. For 10 points each:
Frigg's husband was this god, who rode the eight-legged steed Sleipnir and was accompanied by the ravens Huginn and Muninn. He was also the All-Father and chief god of the Norse pantheon.
Frigg's first sorrow was the death of her son Baldr, who was killed by a mistletoe dart flung by this member of the Aesir. Baldr was eventually avenged when Vali slew this blind son of Odin.
Frigga
Odin [or Wotan; or Woden]
Hoder [or Hod]
Answer some questions about mythological characters who try to thwart fate, for 10 points each.
After the death of his friend Enkidu, this Mesopotamian king goes to seek eternal life, only for Utnapishtim to tell him that he will never obtain it.
When Dermot of the Love Spot lay dying after being gouged by a boar, this man had the opportunity to save him with healing water from his hands, but this figure refused. This figure was also the father of Oisin
This titan tried to cheat fate by swallowing the children who were destined to overthrow him. Unfortunately for him, the last "child" he swallowed was a rock and not his son Zeus.
Gilgamesh
Finn McCool [or Fionn mac Cumhaill; accept close pronunciations; prompt on Finn]
Cronus 
Name some figures associated with dragon-slaying in mythology, for 10 points each.
This dragon-like creature had two heads grow to replace each that was cut off. Heracles eventually had to use fire to defeat this creature as part of his second labor.
This Shinto sun kami received the Grasscutter sword Kusanagi from her dragon-slaying brother Susanoo at the end of a long feud which saw this goddess hiding in the Heavenly Rock Cave.
This being was created by Tvashtri and had to be slain with sea foam at twilight. In earlier versions of the story, he depicted as a dragon and personification of drought who was slain by the Vedic storm god Indra.
Lernaean Hydra
Amaterasu
Vritra
Galli were devotees of this goddess who castrated themselves in honor of her son and consort Attis. For 10 points each
Name this Phyrgian goddess who was identified with the earth mother Mater Magna in her cults at Rome.
Cybele's lover Attis is often seen as a Phyrgian analogue of this figure. In Greek mythology, he is a beautiful mortal lover of Aphrodite who is eventually killed by a boar.
The most famous ritual of the Roman Mater Magna cult involves a baptism in the blood of this animal. One of these animals was slain by Mithras. Zeus also abducted Europa in this form.
Cybele
Adonis 
bulls
Imsety and Duamutef were two of the four sons of this figure who were associated with canopic jars. For 10 points each:
Identify this falcon-headed Egyptian deity who was the son of Isis and Osiris.
Horus tricked this deity into eating some semen-covered lettuce. This deity was the god of the desert, storms, foreigners, darkness, and chaos.
This wife of Set was the mother of Anubis and sister of Isis and is usually represented as a young woman with a headdress in the shape of a house and a basket.
Horus [or Nekheny]
Seth [or Setesh; or Sutekh; or Setekh; or Suty]
Nepthys [or Nebet-Het; or Nebt-Het]
She dismembered her brother Apsyrtus and scattered the pieces to escape the pursuit of her father. For 10 points each:
Name this sorceress who gave her lover some herbs to help him defeat a sleepless dragon.
In addition to slaying the sleepless dragon, this hero also had to sow a field with the teeth of a dragon after plowing it with some fire-breathing oxen. With the help of Medea, he was able to recover the Golden Fleece.
This brother of Circe was the father of Medea and the king of Colchis who demanded that Jason slay the dragon and plow the field.
Medea
Jason
Aeetes
Their myths include a creator God who rose out of a lake and made the sun, moon, stars, and mankind. That god wandered the earth as a beggar before walking into the Pacific Ocean, never to return again. For 10 points each:
Name this myth system that included the creator god Viracocha.
This Incan god is often said to be the son of Viracocha and the husband of Mama Quilla. This sun god was also the patron deity of the Inca capital Cuzco.
K'uychi, the god of this phenomenon, was considered to be the heavenly form of the Mother Tree Sach'mama. In Greek mythology, this meteorological phenomenon was associated with the messenger goddess Iris.
Incan Mythology
Inti
rainbows
This ruler of Mount Sipylus stole nectar and ambrosia from a banquet on Mount Olympus. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus who was punished in the underworld with food and drink just beyond his reach.
Tantalus also attempted to trick the gods by serving his son Pelops at a banquet. Pelops wore an ivory prosthetic in place of this body part, which was eaten by Demeter at the banquet.
Pelops married this woman after defeating her father Oenomaus in a chariot race with the help of Myrtilus. Pelops and this woman's children include Atreus and Eurydice.
Tantalus
shoulder
Hippodamia
This deity was banished from Tahiti for fighting with her sister Na-mako-o-Kaha'i, the Goddess of the Sea. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess of fire who resides in Kilauea and created several islands via volcanic eruptions.
Pele is a goddess from the mythology of these people, whose other deities include I'o (ee-oh), the source of all who breathed life into Kane, the creator god. Temples from this mythology are called heiau (hay-ow).
Another creation story of the Hawai'ian Islands involves this trickster deity, who pulled them up from the ocean on his fishing line. In Maori mythology, this figure lengthens the day by restraining the sun with a jawbone.
Pele
Hawai'ian Mythology [prompt on Polynesian]
Maui
He was cuckolded by a bull after his wife Pasiphae hid inside a wooden cow. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus and Europa and father of Phaedra who ruled Crete.
This man was the builder of that wooden cow, as well as the labyrinth that housed the minotaur and the wings he and his son Icarus used to escape Crete.
This man was a brother of King Minos and a judge of the dead in the Greek underworld alongside Minos and Aeacus.
Minos 
Daedalus 
Rhadmanthus 
Name some Platonic dialogues, for 10 points each.
In this dialogue, the title figure prepares a way for Socrates to escape Athens, but Socrates declares that he would rather give up his life than respond to injustice with further injustice.
In this other dialogue, Anytus, Meletus, and Lycon are Socrates' accusers in his trial. Socrates gives a formal speech defending himself against charges of corrupting the youth and not respecting the gods.
Socrates and the title figure of this dialogue attempt to define piety, but it ends at an impasse. Its suggested definitions include that which is loved by the gods, and that reverence is a part of justice.
Crito
The Apology of Socrates [or Apologia]
Euthyphro
This warrior battled queen Medb during the Cattle Raid of Cooley, and he was originally named Setanta. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who was renamed for a dog he slew and vowed to replace.
The story of Cuchulainn is found in the Ulster cycle in the mythology of this nation, which was originally inhabited by the Fir Bolg before they were defeated by the Tuatha de Danann
Cuchullain was trained in the use of this weapon by a Scottish warrior woman named Scathach. It was a barbed spear that was wielded with the toes, as when Cuchulainn slew Ferdiad.
Cuchulainn
Ireland [or Eire]
Gae Bolg
In order to keep their lineage going, this group annually met up with a neighboring tribe, the Gargareans, after which they disposed of the male children. For 10 points each:
Identify this all-female warrior race from Greek mythology
This Amazonian queen possessed a girdle that was bestowed upon her by her father Ares. Heracles was sent to snatch up said girdle as one of his twelve labors.
This sister of Hippolyta was abducted by Heracles and was later made the bride of Theseus. Another woman of the same name was raped by Zeus and was the mother of Amphion.
Amazons
Hippolyta
Antiope
Name some deities based on their relationship to Ra, for 10 points each.
This god of reading and writing with the head of an ibis was Ra's representative.
Ra was later syncretized with this Theban god, whose name he gained. Akhenaten's son changed his name from referencing the sun god Aten to referencing this one.
Ra once got this lion-headed consort of Ptah drunk on 7,000 jugs of beer and pomegranate juice, preventing her from killing everything in Egypt.
Thoth
Amun
Sekhmet
Answer the following about the Fenian cycle of Irish mythology
This hunter-warrior succeeded Goll mac Morna as the leader of the Fianna after burning his thumb while cooking the Salmon of Knowledge.
The Fenian cycle also includes TÃ­r na nÃ“g, a realm whose inhabitants eternally possess this quality. In Greek mythology, the immortal Tithonus wrinkled up into a cicada because Eos forgot to wish for this quality.
Niamh leads this figure into TÃ­r na nÃ“g and bears his son Oscar and his daughter Plor na mBan. This son of Fionn is celebrated as Ireland's greatest poet and bard.
Fionn  mac Cumhaill [or Finn McCool]
eternal youth
OisÃ­n [or Ossian; or Osheen]
This figure received a cow with a half-moon on its flank from Pelagon, and the Delphic Oracle told him to follow the cow and found a city where it became tired.
Name this mythological figure, the son of Agenor and Telephassa and husband of Harmonia who founded that city, Thebes, after slaying a dragon and burying its teeth in the ground.
Cadmus and his brothers Cilix and Phoenix were sent to search for this woman, their sister, who Zeus had abducted in the form of a bull.
Cadmus's children included Semele, Autonoe, Ino, and this woman, who gored to death her own son Pentheus during a Dionysian festival.
Cadmus [or Kadmos]
Europa
Agave [or Agaue]
This figure, originally known as Demne, took over leadership of the Fianna from Goll mac Morna, finally stopping Aillen from burning down the castle of Tara on Samhain. 
Identify this Irish mythological hero, who built the Giant's Causeway and threw the Isle of Man at a rival, the namesake of the Fenian cycle.
While studying under Finnegas, Finn McCool caught this type of fish "of knowledge" and burned his thumb on it while cooking, ingesting its oils and gaining clairvoyance. 
The Fenian cycle was narrated by this son of Finn and Sadbh [SAHV or SIGH-V], whose name means "fawn."
Finn McCool [accept Fionn Mac Cumhaill]
a salmon [accept Salmon of Knowledge]
Oisin [accept Ossian]
When he first appeared in the Gylfaginning, this figure claimed to be called Skrymir. 
Identify this giant who tricked Thjalfi into racing against the personification of thought and rigged an eating contest between Loki and the personification of fire.
The most prominent figure tricked by Utgard-Loki was this Norse god of thunder, the wielder of Mjolnir, who lost a wrestling match against Elli, the personification of old age. 
Thor also failed to completely lift Utgard-Loki's cat, who unbeknownst to him was actually this child of Angrboda and Loki, a constant foe of Thor who will kill and be killed by him at Ragnarok.
Utgard-Loki [or Utgarda-Loki]
Thor [accept Thunor, Thunaer, Thunraz, or Donar]
Jormungandr [accept the Midgard Serpent, Midgardsormr, or the World Serpent]
Answer these questions about the life of Zeus prior to overthrowing the Titans, 
This Titan, the wife and sister to Cronus, gave birth to five other children, all eaten by Cronus, before having her sixth child Zeus.
In hiding from his father, the young Zeus was nourished by this she-goat who would later provide the hide that covered Aegis and the horn for the Cornucopia.
This mountain on Crete, sacred to Rhea, was the site of the cave where the young Zeus was hidden. It shares its name with a mountain in Turkey sacred to Cybele from which the river Scamander flowed.
Rhea
Amalthea [accept Amaltheia]
Mount Ida
Identify the following about the second labor of Heracles, 
Heracles traveled to Lake Lerna to slay this beast, one of the offspring of Typhon and Echidna, who had the body of a serpent and innumerable heads. It was aided by the crab Cancer, but Heracles cut off its immortal head.
Heracles was accompanied on the labor by this man, his nephew. This figure aided Heracles by cauterizing the Hydra's head-stumps with a burning torch.
Heracles was given his twelve labors by this king of Tiryns and husband of Antimache.
the Lernaean Hydra 
Iolaus
Eurystheus
This figure was the last of his race, and tutored such figures as Aeneas. 
Name this figure, who exchanged his immortality to free Prometheus from his bondage.
Chiron was a member of this race of beings, who are half-horse.
One of Chiron's star pupils was this mythical healer, who was the son of Apollo and Coronis and was killed with a thunderbolt after he kept resurrecting people for gold, much like Ron Paul.
Chiron [or Cheiron]
centaurs
Asclepius 
