The Met houses a hippopotamus named William made of this material, three of whose legs were broken, likely so it could not chase the dead. For 10 points each:
Name this material whose association with the afterlife led to its use for the wall tiles of King Djoser’s tomb.
William was found in the burial chamber of the steward Senbi II, who lived during this period in Egyptian history in which Senusret III annexed Nubia. Worship of Osiris became popular during this period that ended with the Hyksos invasion.
Faience was frequently this color, a reference to the Nile River. This is the color of lapis lazuli, which was used to construct the Ishtar Gate.
Egyptian faience (“fie-ONSE” or “FAY-onse”)
Middle Kingdom
blue &lt;EL, Ancient History&gt;
After flaying female sacrifices, men would wear the womens’ skins during the festival Ochpaniztli (“ohch-pa-NEEST-lee”), which honors this goddess and the similar deity Tlazolteotl. For 10 points each:
Name this aspect of Coatlicue (“ko-AHT-lee-kway”) referred to as the mother of the Aztec deities and thus the grandmother of the Aztecs.
Toci is sometimes identified with Yohualticitl (“yo-hwal-tee-see-tull”) and Temazcalteci (“tem-ahs-call-TEH-see”), both of whom are goddesses of these places that were referred to by Aztecs as temazcals. Plains Indians used similar structures to prepare vision questers by having them undergo the Inipi purification ceremony inside one.
The Inipi ceremony is one of the “seven sacred rites” performed by these Native American people. This group identifies the supernatural spirit imbued in objects by its concept of wakan.
Toci (“TOH-see”) [or Tocih]
sweat baths [or bathhouses; or sweat lodges; or saunas]
Lakota [or Teton Sioux; prompt on Sioux] &lt;VS, Religion: Other&gt;
A child with a massive gaping hole in his back was born to a human maiden and Kamohoali‘i, the brother of Pele and the king of these animals. For 10 points each:
Dakuwaqa is represented as one of these animals in a Fijian myth in which he battles an octopus for control over Kadavu Island. Tutira is turned into one of these animals to prevent his marriage to Kawariki in another tale.
The story of Tutira and Kawariki is found in the myths of these indigenous people of New Zealand, who worshipped the sea god Tangaroa and the primordial pair Rangi and Papa.
This major figure in various Polynesian mythologies is the son of Tangaroa and the guardian of fish in Māori mythology. This figure lends his pet whale to Kae for his return journey, only for Kae to kill and eat it.
sharks
Māori
Tinirau [or Tinilau; or Sinilau] &lt;JSH, Mythology&gt;
One of these two characters casts protective spells in his namesake dance, while the other casts spells on Airlangga’s soldiers that make them stab themselves with their own daggers. For 10 points each:
Name these two characters who represent the struggle between good and evil in Balinese myth. One of them is a lion-like creature, while the other is a demon queen who is an incarnation of the witch Calon Arang.
Calon Arang angered King Airlangga by kidnapping a girl whom she sacrificed to this goddess. Some traditions depict Kāli (“KAH-lee”) springing from the forehead of this goddess when she is angry.
Barong is usually depicted accompanied by two of these animals, whose King Sugrīva helped Rāma invade Lanka in the Rāmāyana.
Barong AND Rangda [accept in any order]
Durgā [prompt on Shakti; prompt on Pārvati]
monkeys [accept vānaras] &lt;CK, Mythology&gt;
This figure’s marriage to Bé Chuille (“bay KHILL-uh”) causes a famine in Ireland that is only averted when he journeys to an island of apples to retrieve the “son of a sinless couple.” For 10 points each:
Name this high king of Ireland, the first to cause the Lia Fáil (“LEE-uh fall”) to roar after it was split in half. This figure follows a horseman into thick fog, where he is served a meal by Lugh (“loo”), who tells him how long his reign will be.
Conn’s wife Bé Chuille is banished after losing at this game, which is also played by Midir and Eochu (“OH-khoo”) for a kiss in the Tochmarc Étaíne (“TOKH-mark AY-dyne”). King Arthur plays this board game against Owain (“OH-wine”) in The Dream of Rhonabwy.
This man splits the Lia Fáil in half when it fails to roar for this man’s friend Lugaid Riab nDerg (“LOO-gud REE-ub NAR-ug”). After breaking his geis (“gesh”) by eating dog meat, this hero is killed by a different Lugaid and dies standing.
Conn of the Hundred Battles
fidchell (“FID-shell”) [or ficheall (“FEE-hull”); or gwyddbwyll (“GWITH-bush”)]
Cuchulainn (“koo-HULL-in”) &lt;JSH, Mythology&gt;
This figure’s sons, including Eyjolfr and Alfr, are slain during a campaign to obtain weregild for this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this Saxon king whose clan is engaged in a blood feud with the Volsungs. With Lyngvi, this king leads an invasion that results in Sigmund’s death, after which Sigurd retaliates by killing all of this king’s sons.
This son of Sigmund gains his epithet by killing Hunding. Dag kills this figure with Odin’s spear, after which this figure and his wife, the valkyrie Sigrun, are reborn twice more.
Another Helgi, who appears in Hrolfr Kraki’s saga, was a king of this Scandinavian country. The early history of this country was documented by Saxo Grammaticus in a semi-legendary account of the “deeds” of its people.
Hunding
Helgi Hundingsbane
Denmark &lt;JSH, Mythology&gt;
The first kami, Amenominakanushi (“AH-meh-no-MEE-na-ka-NOO-shee”), is identified with this asterism and the North Star. For 10 points each:
Name this asterism that represents seven hunters chasing an animal in Micmac mythology. Three hunters chase an animal represented by this asterism’s remaining four stars in the Iroquois version of the legend.
In Greek mythology, Ursa Major is created when this nymph is placed among the stars in the form of a bear by Zeus to prevent her son Arcas from accidentally killing her.
The constellation Draco intertwines the Big and Little Dippers to form the Xuanwu (“shwen-woo”), which is one of these animals constricted by a snake. This animal represents the color black and the cardinal direction of north in Chinese cosmology.
Big Dipper [prompt on Ursa Major]
Callisto
turtle [or tortoise] &lt;JSH, Mythology&gt;
On the advice of the oracle, this man settles in Thessaly and marries Themisto after he encounters a pack of wolves devouring sheep. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Boeotia (“BEE-oh-shuh”) who is driven mad by Hera for raising the infant Dionysus. After being visited by Tisiphone (“tih-SIFF-uh-nee”), he chases his wife Ino and son Melicertes into the ocean.
In his madness, Athamas mistakes this other son of his for a lion cub, seizes him from Ino, and smashes him against a rock.
Phrixus and Helle escape their stepmother Ino by riding a flying ram to Colchis, where Phrixus sacrifices it to produce this object. Jason is sent to obtain this object from Aeetes (“ee-EE-teez”) in the Argonautica.
Athamas
Learchus
the Golden Fleece &lt;JSH, Mythology&gt;
In one story, this figure calls a man the “blind son of a blind man” after he falls into a pool of water. For 10 points each:
Name this figure who, according to another legend, washed her hair in her brother-in-law’s blood to avenge being humiliated in a game of dice.
In the Mahābhārata, Drāupadī is the wife of all five of these brothers, who include Arjuna and the hugely strong Bhima.
Drāupadī at first marries only Arjuna after he shoots a fish’s eye with an arrow at one of these ceremonies. Sita chooses Rama as her husband after he lifts and strings Shiva’s bow in one of these ceremonies.
Drāupadī [do not accept or prompt on “Drupada”; prompt on Panchalī or Yajñasenī]
Pandavas
Swayamvaram [or Swayamwaram] &lt;Religion&gt;
This character shows her brother-in-law the severed head of his son, Itys, after he eats him in a stew. For 10 points each:
Name this Athenian princess who tells her sister Procne about being raped by Tereus after he cuts out her tongue. This princess is turned into a nightingale after her revenge on Tereus.
Philomela uses this medium to describe her rape by Tereus. Athena punished Arachne for using this medium better than her to tell about how gods abuse mortals.
The Metamorphosis transitions from the story about Arachne to the one about this countrywoman of hers. In Book 23 of the Iliad, Achilles tells Priam that this woman “remembered to eat when she was worn out with weeping,” to encourage the Trojan king to share a meal with him.
Philomela
tapestry [or weaving; accept synonyms]
Niobe &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
The seven doorways in this building are only closed by a valve that responds to the direction of the wind so Conall Cernach vows to guard all of them against rebel forces. For 10 points each:
Name this building whose destruction by Ingcel Caech is the subject of an Ulster Cycle tale. It is lit on fire three times and put out three times until there is no water left to satiate Conaire Mor’s magical thirst.
Throughout The Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel, Conaire Mor breaks his many geasa, which are Irish analogues to taboos. This other Ulster Cycle hero who wields the Gae Bolg violates his geasa by eating dog meat given to him by a hag.
The Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel begins as a continuation of a story about The Wooing of [this woman]. In this woman’s tale, Echu Airem and Midir [MEE-“there”] play fidchell for higher and higher stakes, eventually playing for a kiss and an embrace from this woman.
Da Derga’s Hostel [or Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel or Togail Bruidne Dá Derga; or Orgain Bruidne Uí Dergae; or The Massacre of Ua Derga’s Hostel]
Cuchulainn
Étaín [EE-dine] &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
This character shows her brother-in-law the severed head of his son, Itys, after he eats him in a stew. For 10 points each:
Name this Athenian princess who tells her sister Procne about being raped by Tereus after he cuts out her tongue. This princess is turned into a nightingale after her revenge on Tereus.
Philomela uses this medium to describe her rape by Tereus. Athena punished Arachne for using this medium better than her to tell about how gods abuse mortals.
The Metamorphosis transitions from the story about Arachne to the one about this countrywoman of hers. In Book 23 of the Iliad, Achilles tells Priam that this woman “remembered to eat when she was worn out with weeping,” to encourage the Trojan king to share a meal with him.
Philomela
tapestry [or weaving; accept synonyms]
Niobe &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
The seven doorways in this building are only closed by a valve that responds to the direction of the wind so Conall Cernach vows to guard all of them against rebel forces. For 10 points each:
Name this building whose destruction by Ingcel Caech is the subject of an Ulster Cycle tale. It is lit on fire three times and put out three times until there is no water left to satiate Conaire Mor’s magical thirst.
Throughout The Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel, Conaire Mor breaks his many geasa, which are Irish analogues to taboos. This other Ulster Cycle hero who wields the Gae Bolg violates his geasa by eating dog meat given to him by a hag.
The Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel begins as a continuation of a story about The Wooing of [this woman]. In this woman’s tale, Echu Airem and Midir [MEE-“there”] play fidchell for higher and higher stakes, eventually playing for a kiss and an embrace from this woman.
Da Derga’s Hostel [or Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel or Togail Bruidne Dá Derga; or Orgain Bruidne Uí Dergae; or The Massacre of Ua Derga’s Hostel]
Cuchulainn
Étaín [EE-dine] &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
In these people’s creation myth, the first humans Abuk and Garang were formed from clay and left to mature in a pot under a tamarind tree. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose supreme God Nhialic cut the rope binding him to earth after Abuk planted too many seeds.
When Garang said that there would not be enough food for 15 children, he introduced this concept to the world. The Moon gave the Hare a split lip for neglecting to tell humans that they will be reborn after this process, which is presided over by Osiris in Egyptian myth.
In these people’s creation myth, Unkulunkulu sends a chameleon to tell people they won’t die, but the lizard Abantu is much quicker and brings death to people.
Dinka
death
Zulu &lt;Mythology&gt;
Because he lost a contest to create humans, this god threw a fit and seduced the first man’s wife, invented poison, and created death so he got banished to the depths of the ocean. For 10 points each:
Name this counterpart to Kāne [KAH-nay], the ruler of the underworld who takes the form of an evil squid in the ocean but is a banana on land.
Women are prohibited from eating bananas because they are sacred to Kanaloa and Kane in this system due to their phallic shape. Wakea instituted this system in order to woo his daughter and spend less time with his wife.
Kanaloa is invoked as an aumakua by people engaging in this activity, which Maui was doing with his brothers when he pulled up the Hawaiian islands with his hook.
Kanaloa [or Milu or Ka-he‘e-hauna-wela]
kapu [accept tabu or taboo]
fishing &lt;Mythology&gt;
In one of these people’s creation stories, there was nothing but bats fighting each other in the darkness until the sun created the earth and left his son Tupa in charge. For 10 points each:
Name these people. Their myths center on the seven monstrous offspring of Tau, who were cursed by Arasy after Tau defeated goodness and raped Kerana.
Porasy sacrificed herself to kill the sons of Kerana by getting them drunk before a wedding and setting them on fire in a location of this type protected by the monster Teju Jagua. Incan mythology holds that Manco Capac and his siblings emerged either from Lake Titicaca or from a place of this type near Cuzco.
The Guarani say that these waterfalls on the Argentina–Brazil border were created when the river serpent monster M’Boi fell in love with the girl Naipa and demanded her sacrifice but she fled in a canoe.
Guarani
caves
Iguazú Falls &lt;Mythology&gt;
In one of these people’s creation stories, there was nothing but bats fighting each other in the darkness until the sun created the earth and left his son Tupa in charge. For 10 points each:
Name these people. Their myths center on the seven monstrous offspring of Tau, who were cursed by Arasy after Tau defeated goodness and raped Kerana.
Porasy sacrificed herself to kill the sons of Kerana by getting them drunk before a wedding and setting them on fire in a location of this type protected by the monster Teju Jagua. Incan mythology holds that Manco Capac and his siblings emerged either from Lake Titicaca or from a place of this type near Cuzco.
The Guarani say that these waterfalls on the Argentina–Brazil border were created when the river serpent monster M’Boi fell in love with the girl Naipa and demanded her sacrifice but she fled in a canoe.
Guarani
caves
Iguazú Falls &lt;Mythology&gt;
Pottery depicting this goddess was popular during the 5th-century BC and usually featured a spout in the form of a big boob. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess of childbirth who was often identified with Bes. She is depicted as a hippopotamus with human teats with a woman’s wig and often carried scrolls of protection.
Taweret was often called the “Mistress of the Waters” since she was believed to have played a role in this event. In other stories, a pair of caves under the Elephantine island bring about this yearly event.
In this mythological source, which was once used as a charm, Isis informs Horus that he was born from Taweret and Bes. It can currently be found at the Metropolitan and is named for an Austrian thinker.
Taweret [or Taurt, Tuat, Taouris, Tuart, Ta-weret, Tawaret, Twert, and Taueret]
flooding of the Nile [accept equivalent answers]
Metternich Stela [or Metternich Stele]
During this festival a group named after the Greek god Bacchus moves around huge floaties, such as the Bacchasaurus, a big dinosaur, and the Bacchawhale, a big whale. For 10 points each:
Name this festival during which “krewes,” or parade groups, often throw doubloons and other stuff at partygoers. Pancakes are a traditional food on this Tuesday festival.
The first krewe in New Orleans is named after this Greek god of laughter. In a fable by Aesop, this god laughs at a house that has no wheels.
One of the most sought-after throws at Mardi Gras are these objects from a namesake “social aid and pleaser club.” Since these things are potentially harmful, Governor Edwin Edwards signed a law removing liability of the throwing of these things during Mardi Gras.
Mardi Gras
Momus [do not accept or prompt on “Comus”]
Zulu coconuts [prompt on coconuts; but do not prompt on “Zulus”]
Tony Locke’s <em>Mayo Folk Tales</em> states this creature uses a whip made of a human spine. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish fairy that brings death to anyone when it says the person’s name. This headless fairy is often depicted riding in a carriage being pulled by six black horses.
The Dullahan may simultaneously occur with one of these female wailing spirits, in which case you are totally fucked. Some stories claim that the war goddess Morrigan would often take the form of one of these.
The banshee, and other shees, or fairies, are described as a “subterranean kingdom” of “invisible people” in this Scottish author’s book The Secret Commonwealth. When this man died, his soul went to Fairyland...or so they say.
Dullahan [or Gan Ceann]
banshee [or bean si or bean sidhe]
Robert Kirk
For 10 points each, answer the following about bonfires in mythology:
Bonfires are circled the night before Holi and during a Hindu wedding in honor of this seven-tongued fire god.
In Chinese myth, these offspring of Hua Hsu married after two bonfires they created merged together. One of them cuts off the legs of a turtle to prop up the heavens, while the other teaches humans how to hunt with spears.
When Tecciztecatl is too afraid, the humble god Nanahuatzin becomes the fifth and final Aztec sun by jumping into a bonfire. After Tecciztecatl also jumps in out of pride, there were two suns – so the gods were forced to do this to Tecciztecatl to dim his light and turn him into the moon.
Agni
Nuwa and Fuxi [or Nugua and Paoxi]
throw a rabbit at him [accept any answer which mentions a rabbit being flung at him]
Answer the following about the longer of the Homeric Hymns to Hermes, for 10 points each.
Most of the poem describes the newborn Hermes's theft of a bunch of cattle belonging to this fellow god, to whom he gives the newly-invented lyre in recompense.
In the 13th line of the poem, Hermes is described using this Greek term. It is the first adjective used to describe Odysseus in the Odyssey, in which context it is translated by Lattimore as "of many ways" and by Fagles as "of twists and turns".
The opening of the poem also notes that Hermes was born to Maia in a cave on this mountain on the Peloponnese. The Oread of this name was the mother of Lycaon by Pelasgus.
Apollo [or Phoebus Apollo]
polytropos [accept word forms or πολύτροπος]
Mount Cyllene [or Mount Kyllini]
According to Ebbo, the three parts of this deity represent the heavens, earth, and underworld. For 10 points each:
Name this Slavic deity who is often depicted with blindfolds over his three heads, so that he cannot see the sins of his people. His temples were found near high mountains, including the highest peak in Slovenia, which shares his name.
Another Slavic Earth god is this one, who controlled thunder and lightning and was part of a trinity with Svarog and Dazhbog. Several amulets have been discovered in the shape of his axe.
Triglav and Perun both appear in this work which was allegedly discovered on wooden planks in the early 20th century by a lieutenant in the White Russian Army. It’s probably a forgery due to its use of inconsistent language.
Triglav [or Trihlav or Tryglaw or Troglav or Trzyglow]
Perun [or Perkunas or Perkons]
Book of Veles [or Vlesbook or Isenbeck’s Planks]
This woman’s partner kept leaving pieces of raw meat as a signal to others that he he’d not been seduced by this woman, until she made fun of him for being less bold than the water which splashed her thigh. For 10 points each:
Name this daughter of Cormac mac Art, whose desire for some berries in the forest of Dubros caused her lover Diarmuid to kill the giant Searbhan.
When three hounds are sent after Grainne, the final one is killed in this manner. Jason and the Argonauts used a dove to avoid being killed in this way by the Symplegades.
On the other hand, Grainne’s dad Cormac mac Art dies in this fashion after a druid curses him for converting to Christianity. Earlier, Cormac’s lover Achtan had a dream that a wave knocked over a giant tree, which prophesied that Cormac’s son was also meant to die this way.
Gráinne (GRAHN-yuh)
smashed by/against a rock [accept any equivalent indicating death by “rocks” or “stones”, etc.; prompt on squish-squish or smashed]
choking on a fishbone [accept salmon bone in lieu of fish; prompt on choking or choke]
Name these lion deities who protect people when they’re not eating them, for 10 points each.
This brother of Humbaba, and son of Hanbi, is the “king of the wind demons” in Mesopotamian myth. Often shown with lion claws and scorpion tail, he chases away the evil child-killing goddess Lamashtu.
This consort of Ptah, the lioness goddess of Egypt, was mollified by Ra’s blood-colored beer and persuaded not to eat all of humanity.
This goofy lion spirit in Indonesian myth is the guardian of the forest of Bali, and the hero of a ritual dance with namesake masks. Men wielding kris swords are whipped into a self-harming trance by the spell of this lion’s eternal rival, the witch Rangda.
Pazuzu [or Pazuza or Fazuzu]
Sekhmet [or Sakhmet or Sachmis or Sakhet]
Barong [or Banas Pati Rajah]
In a controversial book titled for Hamlet’s object of this sort, Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Dechend argued that the Neolithic knowledge of axial precession was encoded in myth. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of object to which the heavens are analogized in an Indo-European mytheme analyzed in Viktor Rydberg’s book Investigations into Germanic Mythology.
The story about a sea king forcing those giantesses to grind the world mill is used to explain why the ocean contains this substance. The primordial cow Audhumbla licked a block of this substance to uncover Buri.
A pair of dwarfs used a millstone to kill this giant’s mother after they drowned his father Gilling. This giant then takes the mead of poetry from those dwarfs, and hid it in a mountain until Odin stole it with Baugi’s help.
the world mill [or millstone; or heavenly/cosmic mill]
salt
Suttungr
One of the Three Views of Japan are the pine-clad islands of Matsushima, which can be found off the coast of this prefecture. For 10 points each:
Name this prefecture within Tohoku, whose capital, Sendai was founded by Date Masamune.
Miyagi prefecture is especially well-known for a form of this glutinous rice cake that has been wrapped in soy paste. The name of this food comes from the Shinto kami of food who is not Inari.
Off the coast of Miyagi Prefecture is Tashirojima Island, where the ratio of these specific things to humans is about 6:1. Other Japanese islands that have a lot of these specific things include Aoshima.
Miyagi Prefecture
mochi [or Uke Mochi]
feral cats [or wild cats; prompt on cats; do not accept or prompt on "pet (cats)!"]
This object is detailed in a famous ekphrasis in Book 18 of the Iliad. For 10 points each:
Name this object decorated with nine layers of images, including contrasting images of a city at war and a city at peace.
The shield of Achilles was crafted by this lame god of the forge at the behest of Thetis.
The fifth layer of imagery adorning the shield of Achilles depicts one of these places. The old man Battos was laboring in this type of location when he spotted Hermes stealing the cattle of Apollo.
the shield of Achilles [prompt on partial answer; prompt on “armor of Achilles”]
Hephaestus
a vineyard [accept “a field of grapes”; prompt on “field” or “farm”]
Much of our knowledge of the myths of these people come from Pedro Cieza de Leon’s Cronica del Peru. For 10 points each:
Name this Andean civilization that revered the creator god Viracocha. Their cosmos were divided into three pachas, or worlds.
This Incan sun god resided in the hanan pacha. His wife, Mama Quilla [“KEE-ya”], cried tears of silver and served as goddess of the moon.
This deity ruled opposite Inti and Mama Quilla as the god of death and ruler of ukhu pacha, or the underworld.
Incan Empire
Inti
Supay
The shepherd Faustulus first spotted these twins while they were suckling a she-wolf. For 10 points each:
Name these two brothers who legendarily founded the city of Rome.
By some accounts, Romulus and Remus were conceived when this woman was raped by Mars. She was subsequently imprisoned by Amulius.
This deity rescued Rhea Silvia and married her. In the Aeneid, this god advises Aeneas to ally himself with Evander and the Arcadians.
Romulus and Remus [both answers required; accept in either order]
Rhea Silvia [do not prompt on partial answers]
Tiberinius [prompt on the “Tiber River”]
This god’s home is called Ydalir and he is considered the daughter of Sif and the stepson of Thor. For 10 points each:
Name this Germanic god often depicted on skis carrying a bow.
Ydalir was considered a part of Alfheim, which was ruled by this Vanir god. His possessions include the golden boar Gullinbursti and the foldable ship Skidbladnir.
Because he had earlier relinquished his sword in an effort to woo Gerd, Frey was easily killed by the jotun Surt wrath during this final apocalyptic battle of Norse mythology.
Ullr
Freyr [do NOT accept “Freyja”]
Ragnarok
This figure perishes as the island on which she rests sinks to the bottom of the sea. For 10 points each:
Name this figure that later reincarnates as a fish, and is caught by her betrothed. Not realizing who she is, her betrothed tries to cut her open, after which she weeps and swims away.
Aino’s betrothed is this owner of the kantele, the great sorcerer of Finnish mythology.
Aino and Vainamoinen appear alongside the hero Lemminkainen and the smith Ilmarinen in this Finnish national epic.
Aino
Vainamoinen
The Kalevala
Apollo kidnapped this daughter of the Lapith king Hypseus. For 10 points each:
Name this nymph, whose kidnapping took place after Apollo witnessed her wrestling with a lion that was terrorizing her father’s flocks of sheep.
Apollo’s tryst with Cyrene produced this demi-god, who fathered the hunter Actaeon and invented beekeeping.
Cyrene’s other son with Apollo was Idmon, a seer who predicted his own death after joining this group of heroes led by Jason.
Cyrene
Aristaeus
the Argonauts
The hieroglyphs on this slab of “Green breccia” are largely indecipherable due to its use as a millstone. For 10 points each:
Name this relic that was originally housed in the Great Temple of Ptah. Part of the legible hieroglyphs inscribed into this object declare the supremacy of Ptah, and describe him as the creator of everything.
The Great Temple of Ptah was located in this city. This city’s protective triad consisted of Ptah himself, along with Sekhmet and Nefertem.
Though Ptah was sometimes depicted wearing the Atef crown, it is more typically seen atop the head of this god of the afterlife. This husband of Isis was chopped up into fourteen pieces by his malevolent brother Set.
the Shabaka Stone [or Shabaqo stone]
Memphis
Osiris
This figure’s name means “furrow,” because she was discovered in a ploughed field. For 10 points each:
Name this incarnation of Lakshmi who is betrothed to the winner of a competition to lift and string a bow of Shiva. After her husband abandons her, she gives birth to a set of twins and is swallowed by the earth.
Sita is the wife of this king of Ayodhya who killed the evil king of Lanka, Ravana.
Sita is considered a daughter of this goddess of the earth. She was stolen by the demon Hiranyaksha and saved by Vishnu in the form of the boar Varaha.
Sita [or Janike]
Rama
Bhumi-devi [or Bhu-devi]
This god, who presided over the city of Nippur, was the only deity who was able to reach the supreme god of heaven, Anu, and thus held sway over the other deities. For 10 points each:
Identify this Mesopotamian god of wind who attempted to wipe out humanity with a great flood.
When he was young, Enlil was banished to this place, which was called Irkalla in Mesopotamian myth and was ruled over by Ereshkigal. The Greek version of this location was ruled by Hades.
Enlil had been banished for seducing Ninlil, a tryst that resulted in the birth of this deity. The Great Ziggurat of Ur was dedicated to this deity, who had a great beard of lapis lazuli and rode around on a bull.
Enlil
the underworld
Sin [or Nanna]
This son of Themiste was crippled by Zeus’s thunderbolt for boasting about his affair with the goddess Aphrodite. For 10 points each:
Name this figure, who is carried out of the burning city of Troy by his son.
That son of Anchises is this namesake of an epic by Virgil.
According to Homer, Anchises had a mortal wife named Eriopis, with whom he fathered a daughter with this name. Another figure with this name was the prize of a chariot race rigged by Myrtilus.
Anchises
Aeneas
Hippodamia
One member of this group owned a mule that could be folded up to fit in his pocket. For 10 points each:
Identify this numbered group of long-lived deities revered in Taoism. Their only explicitly female member is He Xiangu, and their leader is usually identified as Lü Dongbin.
While his millet was cooking, Lü Dongbin saw his future decline during one of these episodes. Morpheus owned an ivory box filled with these, which he placed in the minds of sleeping people.
The Immortals Li Tieguai and He Xiangu advised White Peony on how to provoke Lü Dongbin into performing this action; when Lü finally did this, White Peony attained immortality.
Eight Immortals [or Bāxiān; prompt on “Immortals”]
dreams [accept nightmares]
ejaculating [accept equivalents, including slang]
This god steals bananas from his grandmother until she agrees to help him restrain the sun. For 10 points each:
Name this Polynesian trickster god, who shares his name with the second-largest Hawaiian island.
In one story, Maui and his father work together to lift this object up so that humans may thrive. Pangu creates this object from the upper half of the shell of an enormous egg.
In another story, Maui’s wife Hina is harassed by one of these creatures every time she goes to fetch water. Eventually, Maui lures the creature out of hiding and kills it with his axe.
Maui
the sky
a long eel
Answer the following about judgment in Greek mythology, for 10 points each:
Athena casts the deciding vote to acquit this son of Agamemnon for murdering his mother Clytemnestra. He is hounded by the Furies in a trilogy written by Aeschylus.
Everyone who listened to the musical contest between Apollo and Pan ruled in favor of Apollo, except for King Midas. In response, Apollo cursed Midas with this physical characteristic.
After Halirrhotius raped this daughter of Ares, the god of war responded by murdering Halirrhotius. During the ensuing trial on the Areopagus, Ares was acquitted of his crime by his fellow Olympians.
Orestes
the ears of an ass [accept anything indicating that Midas received the ears of a donkey]
Alcippe
Answer the following about Apollo, the true god of seduction. For 10 points each:
Apollo seduced Dryope by taking the form of this creature and then sitting on her lap. The bandit Sciron kicked travelers off of a cliff into the waiting mouth of an enormous of one of these creatures.
Apollo also pursued this beautiful naiad around the countryside. She was metamorphosed into a laurel tree just before the god of light could catch up to her.
Hermes joined Apollo in lusting after this daughter of Daedalion; however, Hermes’s patience waned, so he used his powers of enchantment to put her to sleep. He then raped her.
sea turtle
Daphne
Chione
With the help of a pheasant, a monkey, and a dog, this hero conquered a fortress filled with vicious oni. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese folk hero who descended from Heaven inside of a giant peach, fulfilling an old couple’s wish for a child.
In a different story, an old couple whose children had been eaten by the dragon Orochi turn to this kami for help. He defeats Orochi by first intoxicating the dragon with eight vats of sake.
In yet another story, an old couple receives a bottomless bag filled with this ubiquitous staple crop of Japan for welcoming a disguised version of the kami Inari into their home.
Momotarō
Susano’o [accept “Susano-wo” or “Susanoo-no-Mikoto”]
rice
This king feuded with his twin brother Proetus in the womb and invented the shield during his later war against Proetus.
Name this king of Argos who sent his daughter away in a chest that was found by the fisherman Dictys. 
Acrisius tried to kill his daughter Danae because of a prophecy that this hero, Danae's son, would kill him. This slayer of Medusa eventually did kill Acrisius with a badly-thrown discus during some funeral games.
Because Perseus was too ashamed of killing Acrisius to rule Argos, he switched kingdoms with a cousin of this name. Meaning "great sorrow," it is shared by an illegitimate son of Menelaus. 
Acrisius
Perseus
Megapenthes
These cults were generally local and often based around tombs, as exemplified by the cult of Battus of Cyrene. 
Name these chthonic cults that arose around the 8th century C and centered on rediscovered tombs from the Bronze Age. Plato's Academy was named for being situated on land sacred to one of these cults.
This man had a hero cult at Athens because in mythology, he bestowed a boon on Athens when he died there under the hospitality of Theseus. He was raised by Polybus and Merope.
In Classical Greece, Sparta attributed its conquest of Arcadia to the bones of this hero, found in Tegea. He is better known for killing Aegisthus and his mother Clytemnestra.
hero cults
Oedipus
Orestes
While playing on Mount Oeta, this princess took her pet tortoise onto her lap, but was nastily surprised when it turned into a snake and raped her. 
Name this woman who underwent a metamorphosis herself after plucking flowers off the tree that had been the nymph Lotis.
Dryope had been raped by this Greek god of light and music
Dryope's companions on Mount Oeta were these tree nymphs. Each of them is bonded to a specific tree, and if their tree dies, they die as well.
Dryope
Apollo
hamadryads
The third book of Ovid's Ars Amatoria describes this man's tragic story, in which he returned home after eight years and tested his wife's faithfulness by trying to seduce her. 
Name this man who did successfully seduce his wife. When his wife, in return, spied on him while he was hunting, he inadvertently killed her with his never-missing spear.
With her dying words, Cephalus' wife Procris made him promise not to marry this goddess of the dawn, with whom he had spent eight years as a lover.
 According to Hesiod's Theogony, Cephalus and Eos had a son of this name who became Aphrodite's lover. Another mythical figure with this name drowned in the Eridanus river, provoking his seven sisters to cry until they became amber-dripping poplar trees.
 Cephalus
 Eos [or: Aurora]
Phaethon
 A god who took this form owned magic jewels he used to control the waves. 
Name this form taken by Ryujin, kami of the sea. In Christian legend, another of these creatures was killed by Saint George.
This god's son, Hoori, spent three years in Ryujin's palace with the princess Otohime. This kami, the ancestor of Japan's royal house, descended into Kyushu with a sword, mirror, and jewel from his grandmother Amaterasu.
In another myth, a tortoise took this fisherman to Ryujin's palace as a reward for saving his life. This man died after looking into a magic box that Otohime forbade him from opening
dragons [prompt on: snakes]
Ninigi
Urashima Taro
A replacement for this material was forged at the same time as Odin's spear Gungnir and Frey's boat Skidbladnir. 
Name this material that was stolen by Loki, who went down to Svartalfheim to replace it with gold shaped by the Sons of Ivaldi.
Loki bet Brokk and Eitri that they could not surpass the creations of the Sons of Ivaldi; Brokk and Eitri won that bet largely by forging three more gifts, including this hammer for Thor.
After their victory, Brokk and Eitri tried to take their winnings by cutting off Loki's head. When Loki noted that they would have to do so without harming his neck, the dwarves gave Loki this punishment instead.
Sif's hair
Mjollnir
they sewed his mouth shut with thread
Jerry Fodor's cleverly-titled paper "Fodor's Guide to Mental Representation" was published in this journal.
Name this analytic philosophy journal founded by Alexander Bain, which has been edited by such luminaries as G. E. Moore, Gilbert Ryle and Simon Blackburn.
A G. E. Moore paper attempting to refute this position was published in Mind. George Berkeley advocated this position, which states that reality does not exist independently of our mental construction of it.
The idealist J. M. E. McTaggart published this paper in Mind. It argues that the title concept must be defined in terms of the "A-series," but that the A-series is incoherent.
Mind
idealism
 "The Unreality of Time"
Answer the following about classical myth and religion as it appears in Horace,
Horace's 10th epode, about the lousy poet Mevius, treats Mevius as this type of ritual scapegoat from Greek religion. During the Thargelia festival for Apollo, two of these men were exiled from the city to expiate it.
In the eighth poem in Horace's first book of Satires, a wooden statue of this god expels the witch Canidia trespassing on the Equiline. This fertility god once attempted to rape Hestia.
The third epode curses Maecenas for feeding Horace garlic by claiming that Medea coated this hero in garlic before he faced fire-breathing bulls to retrieve the Golden Fleece.
a pharmakos [or: pharmakoi]
Priapus
Jason
During the fight against Ravana in the Ramayana, Hanuman uproots one of these geographical features whole and brings it to Lanka to resurrect Lakshmana. 
Name these sacred locations in mythology exemplified by the Greek Olympus.
In Hindu cosmology, every heaven and every hell is a level of this million kilometer tall mountain at the center of the universe. Angkor Wat was built to resemble this mythological location.
In Japanese mythology, these creatures take the shape of long-nosed yamabushi, or "mountain monks," to play pranks on prideful Buddhist priests.
mountains
Mount Meru
tengu
A citywide pompe was part of the major Athenian festival for this god, at which tragedies and comedies were performed. 
Name this Greek god of wine.
In religious rituals, priests of Dionysus carried these fennel stalks topped with pine cones. In Euripides, these fertility symbols are carried by Maenads and drip honey.
Pithoigia, Choes, and Chytroi were the three days of this Athenian festival for Dionysus at the beginning of spring. During this festival, the archon basileus dressed up as Dionysus and publicly abducted his wife.
Dionysus
thyrsus [or: thyrsoi]
Anthesteria
In some Indian traditions, Jambavan is known as the king of these animals.
Name this type of animal which Callisto was transformed into after being raped by Zeus. 
In this myth system, the human race descends from a bear who turns into a woman after waiting in a cave for one hundred days. 
The cult of Artemis at this site hosted a festival called the Arkteia, which featured young girls dressed up as "arktoi" or she-bears. 
bears 
Korean 
Brauron [or Brauronia] 
This giant shares his name with the hero of an Irish narrative who sails to the Land of Women in the Other World. 
Name this Welsh giant fatally wounded in a battle against King Matholwch, after which he asks that his head be buried in the direction of France to protect Britain from invasion.
The narrative of the voyage of Bran inspired the 8th-century tale of this Irish Christian knight. After disobeying a druid by taking his three foster brothers onto his ship, he veers off course to islands full of ants, fire people, and shapeshifting beasts.
The Celtic narratives of Bran and Mael Duin share aspects of the story of this Greek hero, who visited the Laestrygonians and Cyclopes.
Bran the Blessed [or Bendigeidfran]
Mael Duin
Odysseus [or Ulysses]
According to legend, this thing was created after its namesake king entered Telmessos while driving an ox-cart. 
Name this object that was located in the capital of the Phrygian kingdom until its 333 BCE destruction. It was named for the father of King Midas. 
Years after the time of King Midas, this man succeeded in cutting the Gordian Knot. His other exploits included building a causeway to sack Tyre and fighting against King Porus' elephants at the Hydaspes River.
After Midas became dissatisfied with his golden touch, he was legendarily told to bathe in this river. This river flows through the Lydian capital of Sardis. 
 the Gordian Knot
Alexander the Great [or: Alexander III of Macedon; prompt on: "Alexander"] 
Pactolus River 
This creature and its elder twin were conceived when Diti could not restrain her lust for Kashyapa at dusk, even though sex at dusk was bound to produce demonic children. F
Name this monster that trapped the earth under the water before being defeated by Vishnu in the form of Varaha.
When Vishnu rescued the earth from Hiranyaksha, he took the form of one of these animals. In Greek mythology, Atalanta and Meleager hunt one of these animals in Calydon. 
Hiranyaksha and Hiranyakashipu are two of these demons from Hinduism, which are distinct from rakshasas and are adversaries to the devas led by Indra. 
Hiranyaksha [do not accept: "Hiranyakashipu"] 
a boar [or: a pig] 
asuras 
When Achilles knelt at an altar of Apollo at this woman's request, he was shot in the heel with a poisoned arrow by Paris
Name this Trojan princess loved by Achilles. At the end of the Trojan War, Achilles' ghost demands that the Greeks sacrifice her at his tomb.
After the events of the Iliad, Achilles also fell in love with the corpse of Penthesilea, a queen of these people. For one of his labors, Heracles had to acquire the girdle of their queen Hippolyta.
Previously, Achilles fell in love with this young Trojan prince, the son of Apollo with Hecuba. Apollo said that Troy would not fall if this prince reached age 20, but Achilles murdered him first.
Polyxena
Amazons
Troilus
 A member of this race named Sreng cut off Nuada's hand at the Battle of Maighe Tuireadh, requiring Nuada to find a replacement silver hand. 
Name these "men of bags" described in the Book of Invasions, an ethnic group that invades Ireland from Spain before being expelled by the Tuatha de Danaan. 
 At the Second Battle of Maighe Tuireadh, this member of the Tuatha de Danaan uses a slingstone to kill the Fomorian Balor. This Irish god of light is the father of Cuchulain.
After their defeat at Maighe Tuireadh, some members of the Fir Bolg flee to this province of Ireland. In another myth, its champion Ferdiad duels his foster-brother Cuchulain. 
the Fir Bolg
Lugh
Connacht
 This embodiment of Padmasambhava is sent down to earth by the Amitabha Buddha to end a war oppressing his people.
Name this culture hero who uses a song to subdue the demon Lutzen and wins a horse race to become the ruler of Ling. This hero's song is popular across Mongolia and Central Asia. 
The story of King Gesar is the national epic of this region. The traditional head of state for this region is regarded as the incarnation of Avalokiteshvara and proves himself by picking out artifacts that belonged to his predecessor. 
In Tibetan myth, humanity is born from the union of one of these animals and a stone demoness. In the Popol Vuh, two gods of writing are transformed into these animals by their stepbrothers, the Hero Twins. 
King Gesar
Tibet
monkeys 
According to Apollodorus, this figure was punished for his best-remembered action by Demeter, who pinned him under a boulder, but was freed by Heracles. For 10 points each:
Name this Hadean spirit who, in the Metamorphoses, was turned into an owl when water from the Phlegethon was thrown on him by Persephone.
The Bibliotheca names this god as the father of Ascalaphus by Gorgyra. This figure, the son of Helios, was changed into his "river of woe" form when he supplied the Titans with drinks during the Titanomachy
A different Ascalaphus who was the king of Orchomenus was killed by this Trojan warrior, who was the third and final husband of Helen of Troy. This figurewas murdered after his wife let Menelaus enter his bedchamber.
Ascalaphus
Acheron
Deiphobus
This locale was a hotbed of Boeotian baby exposure. For 10 points each:
Name this mountain on which some of Thebes's finest anklebiters were left, including Thebes's builders Amphion and Zethus. Perhaps the best known widdle snoogums abandoned on this mountain was a son of Jocasta and Laius.
This poor chap was the aforementioned son of Jocasta and Laius. He took out his own eyes after realizing he had repeatedly sexed up his mom.
Amphion and Zethus saved their mother Antiope when she came to Mount Cithaeron by capturing this evil woman, sometimes said to be Antiope's aunt, and executing her by tying her to the horns of a bull.
Mount Cithaeron
Oedipus
Dirce
This act was performed by Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca, who used Cipactli to fashion the world. For 10 points each:
Give this term from the study of myth for the act of creating the universe from the body of a giant.
In Norse mythology, the body parts of this giant were used to create the universe. His brain became the clouds and his skull became the heavens.
The devas dismembered this cosmic primordial man-giant to create the visible universe. A hymn in the Rig Veda tells of his creation from the cosmic ocean.
macanthropy [accept word forms such as macanthrope or macanthropism]
Ymir [or Aurgelmir; or Brimir; or Bláinn]
Purusha
The separation of heaven and earth is achieved when the body of this goddess is split by Marduk. For 10 points each:
Name this primeval water serpent of Babylonian mythology.
This Sumerian god is sometimes said to have been born from a heavenly mother dragon. Before his apotheosis, he was a shepherd who was murdered by an angry mob while residing in his pasture.
This Babylonian water dragon wants to eat Ishtar. Unfortunately for him, Ishtar descends and turns his lake into a sleeping potion, causing him to die. This Hurrian figure is the older brother of Ullikummi.
Tiamat
Dumuzi [or Dumuzid]
Hedammu
During this event, Hecate immolated Clytius with flaming torches while Hephaestus tossed a piece of molten iron at Mimas. For 10 points each:
Name this event in which the gods, led by Zeus, fought against Enceladus and his brethren.
This eldest of the giants led the giants along with his brother Porphyrion. He was immortal, but only if he was near his hometown of Pallene.
The most complete account of the gigantomachy can be found in the Bibliotheka of this mythographer, who shares his name with another mythographer who wrote a thrilling commentary on Homer's Catalogue of Ships.
gigantomachy [accept descriptive answers such as the war between the giants and the gods]
Alcyoneus
Apollodorus [accept Pseudo-Apollodorus or Apollodorus of Athens]
The goddess Nana in this culture's mythology is a fertility goddess. For 10 points each:
Name this culture that venerates Sakpata, the god of insanity who inflicts smallpox on humans. It venerates numerous thunder deities, including Hevioso and his twin brother Gun.
The supreme deity of Fon mythology is Mawu-Lisa, who has this characteristic. Another mythological figure who had this characteristic is nearly raped by Salmacis and is the offspring of the goddess of love and a messenger.
The god of rainbows for these people, Ungud, was androgynous. One of the rivers used by these peoples was supposedly inhabited by evil merfolk called Muldjewangk.
Fon mythology [or Dahomey mythology]
hermaphroditic [or androgynous; or double-sexed, accept equivalents]
aborigines [accept native Australians]
According to this system's cosmogony, the universe originally consisted of oozy mud on the back of a trout. The god Kamui then sent a water-wagtail to create the universe from that mud. For 10 points each:
Name this culture that believed that Aioina taught mankind agriculture. This culture's hirsute women may be explained by the fact that they believe themselves to be descended from a bear.
The sandals of Aioina became the first of these creatures. In Norse mythology, one of these animals named Ratatosk scampers between the branches and roots of Yggdrasil to exchange insults between a dragon and a bird.
In Japanese folklore, sandals can turn into monstrous bakezori, a kind of this yokai. This kind of yokai is based on inanimate objects and includes the boroboroton, a cursed futon, and the zenfusho, a haunted teapot.
Ainu [prompt on "indigenous (inhabitants of) Japan" or equivalents; do not accept or prompt on "Shinto"]
squirrels
Tsukumogami
In Sylvia Townsend Warner's Kingdoms of Elfin, this place is Queen Melior's elfin court, where a pair of eunuchs engage in a fight to the death after sorcerer destroys the cocks used in a cockfight. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical forest that is supposedly the home of the tomb of Merlin. In a Chretien de Troyes story, Yvain pours spring water onto a giant slab and a thunderstorm terrorizes this place.
Broceliande is a forest in this region of France, whose own mythology includes a story about the devil unleashing torrents of water to flood the mythical city of Ys.
These shape-shifting water-sprites of Breton folklore are thought to be the spirits of druids who opposed Christianity. They can be snuffed out if you ask them to name the days of the week, "for they will try to change the subject."
Broceliande
Brittany [or Bretagne; or Breizh]
korrigan [or korandon, ozigan, nozigan or torrigan if you believe Wikipedia]
For 10 points each, name these sources of Greek mythology, none of whom are Homer, Hesiod, Apollodorus, Hyginus, Aelian, Antoninus Liberalis, Robert Graves, or the gods; good luck chumps!
The story of Semiramis was introduced in this Sicilian's Bibliotheka Historia.
This author of The Sacred History supposedly traveled to an island with a golden pillar, where he figured out that the stories the Greek gods were fictionalizations of actual historical events; he thus gives his name to an eponym that means the act of interpreting myths as exaggerations of history.
A sequel to The Iliad is described in this poet's Posthomerica. Its events include the sacrifice of Polyxena...and pretty much anything about the Trojan War not included in the Iliad.
Diodorus of Sicily [or Diodorus Siculus]
Euhemerus [accept euhemerization or word forms]
Quintus of Smyrna [or Quintus Smyrnaeus or Kointos Smyrnaios, prompt on "Quintus"]
The Anglo-Saxon metrical charm that begins "settle down, victory-women" was used to keep these animals at bay. For 10 points each:
Name these animals that were associated with Melaina, Kleodora, and Daphnis, who comprise the Thriae. Hannahanna sent one of these animals to find Telepinu.
The bow of this Hindu love god is made of sugarcane and bees.
In the Kalevala, this figure picks up a pea plant and rolls it with her hands until a bee is born. The story of this woman's magic squirrel and magic bear spittle is told to Louhi, who is inspired to brew beer upon hearing it.
bees
Kama
Osmotar
In medieval retellings of the Trojan War, this figure was held to be the father of Cressida. For 10 points each:
Name this prophet who suggested that Agamemnon would have to sacrifice his daughter Iphigenia at Aulis for favorable winds on the way to Troy.
Servius states that Calchas died in this fashion after a rival soothsayer came by and told him that he would never drink any wine from the vines he had just planted.
This now-lost epic poem states that Calchas died after losing a prophecy battle with rival seer Mopsus. This poem describes voyages home and is named for the Greek word for "returns."
Calchas
died of laughter [accept obvious equivalents]
Nostoi
Answer these questions about Vietnamese mythology and folklore, for 10 points each.
A golden creature of this type arose from a lake to take the legendary sword Heaven's Will back from Le Loi. These creatures include the Chinese sacred animal of the north, and Vishnu's second avatar, Kurma.
In a story retold at the mid-autumn festival of Tet Trung Thu, the trickster boy Chu Cuoi is taken to this place after his wife pours garbage on a magic banyan tree and the tree floats off to this place with him hanging onto it.
Spirits of these two archetypal realms tried to wed princess My Nuong, causing a feud that recurs with each year's monsoon. Au Co, a fairy from one of them, married the dragon's son Lac Long Quang from the other. A book named for them contains the stories of Nuwa and other figures and is the principal source of Chinese mythology.
a turtle [or tortoise; or terrapin]
the moon
the mountains and the ocean [accept answers indicating the sea, water, etc. instead of the ocean; accept Mountain Spirit and Ocean Spirit; accept Son Tinh and Thuy Tinh; prompt on answers of "land" or "earth" or equivalents instead of "mountains"]
One legend states that this god possessed a magical cauldron from which guests could endlessly drink and become younger and healthier. For 10 points each:
Name this god, who worked with Dian Cecht to provide Nuada with a silver arm.
Goibniu also created the spear that Lugh used to wound Balor, the leader of this race of giants who fought against the Tuatha de Danaan.
Goibniu was unable to become ruler of Ireland because he would have been a king of this type. These kings are infertile and rule over a wasteland, and Balin turned the Fisher King into one by giving him the Dolorous Stroke.
Goibniu [or Goibne; or Gaibnenn; or Gobnenn]
Fomorians
maimed king [or blemished king; accept anything that indicates they are a wounded king]
According to this portion of a larger work, a Trojan king named Munon married Troain, a daughter of Priam, and thus founded a line beginning with Tror, or Thor, that later ruled Sweden. For 10 points each:
Name this section of a larger mythological work containing a euhemeristic explanation for the origin of a certain group of gods.
The prologue precedes the section of the Prose Edda describing the "beguiling" of this king, who interrogates High, Just-as-High, and Third about a variety of Norse myths.
The Gylfaginning is followed by the Skaldskaparmal, which consists largely of a dialogue between these two gods, who are at a party. One of them relates a number of myths and kennings to the other, a non- Aesir visitor.
prologue to the Prose Edda
Gylfi [accept Gylfaginning or The Beguiling of Gylfi; or The Tricking of Gylfi]
Bragi [or Brage] and Aegir [or Aeger; or Hler]
The Romans imported their gods from other peoples. For 10 points each:
In the Metamorphoses, this god sails to Rome in snake form and takes up residence on an island in the Tiber. He saves Rome from a plague, befitting his role as a god of healing.
The Romans were never entirely at ease with these Phrygian self-castrating priests of Cybele who ran through the streets flogging themselves with the accompaniment of tambourines and pipes.
The Romans celebrated this Praeneste goddess of woods and orchards with her festival on the Ides of November. Unsurprisingly, she was adorned with much fruit.
Asclepius [or Aesculapius]
Galli [or a Gallus]
Feronia
This woman had her tongue excised after she was raped by Tereus, so that she could not talk about what he did to her; luckily, she was able to convey her sad story by weaving. For 10 points each:
Name this sister of Procne.
Philomela underwent this kind of transformation after praying to Zeus so that she could escape from Tereus. Two mythological figures named Cygnus underwent this kind of transformation.
After learning that Philomela was raped, Procne slew this son of Tereus and Philomela and fed him to his father. Other accounts state that he was turned into a wood pigeon after the tragic affair.
Philomela
turning into a bird [or avification; accept equivalents; accept turning into a nightingale or turning into a swan]
Itys
Uesugi Kenshin is historically associated with this deity because he fervently worshipped him, and many of his supporters likened his combat prowess to that of this god. For 10 points each:
Name this god of war who reigns over Mount Sumeru. A large statue of him is featured at the Todai-ji in Nara.
The god of war Bishamon was sometimes conflated with Hachiman, the god of war from Shinto. Hachiman was one of these kinds of deities that protected a particular place or person.
Bishamon is a member of a group of this many gods of fortune. The Pleiades were comprised of this many sisters.
Bishamonten [or Tamonten or Vaiśravaṇa]
tutelary deity
Seven Gods of Fortune [or Seven Lucky Gods or other reasonable equivalents; accept Shichi Fukujin]
This figure's wife allegedly claimed that Onini the python was shorter than a palm stick, a claim that he used to capture Onini. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical character who was assisted by his wife Aso in gathering the creatures he needs to get the stories of the world.
Anansi captured the python, the leopard, the hornets, and the dwarf at the behest of this sky god, who gave him the stories in exchange.
Anansi's son Ntikuma caused him to drop a pot that held this abstract thing. The pot fell and broke, after which it was washed into the world, meaning that everyone, even Chris Ray, has some.
Anansi [or Kwaku Ananse; or Anancy]
Nyame [or Nyambe; or Nyankopon]
wisdom [or knowledge, accept any equivalents that indicates smarts or intelligence]
These forms include the "smoke-colored" Dhoomravarna and the "king of the world" Vighnaraja.
Identify these eight forms which a god repeatedly takes to descend to Earth and slay a demon.
 A myth about Ganesh has him encounter this demon, who is later the primary antagonist of the Ramayana after he kidnaps Sita.
In that myth, Ravana accidentally forms Gokarna when he violates Ganesh's command to never lay this object on the ground.
the avatars of Ganesh
Ravana
a Shiva lingam
This man's murder of Sidero caused Hera's enmity towards him.
Name this kind of Iolcis who sends Jason after the Golden Fleece.
Pelias sends Jason to his assumed doom due to a prophecy, fulfilled by Jason following his crossing of a river, which says that a man dressed in this unusual way will be Pelias's downfall.
When he arrived in Colchis, Jason is told by this king, the father of Medea, that he must yoke two fire-breathing bulls and sew shut the mouth of a dragon to win the Fleece.
Pelias
wearing only one sandal
AeÃ«tes
Following the death of this character, her killer also slays Thersites after being mocked for falling in love with her corpse.
Name this Amazon killed by Achilles.
Penthesilea went to Troy to die after committing this action during a deer hunt.
Earlier, the girdle of Hippolyta had been stolen by Heracles after this sister of Hippolyta fell in love with Theseus and betrayed the Amazons.
Penthesilea
accidentally killing Hippolyta [or equivalents; prompt on answers that do not specify who was killed]
Antiope
This task was undertaken by Odysseus, who disguised himself as a beggar, with the assistance of Diomedes, whom Odysseus attempted to kill to take credit.
Identify this mission for which the two Greek heroes snuck into Troy at night.
 The importance of the Palladium to Greek victory in the Trojan War was established by this seer, who learned prophecy from his twin sister Cassandra.
The list of things that Helenus said the Greeks must do included capturing the Palladium and bringing this son of Achilles, who kills Priam in the Aeneid, to Troy.
capturing the Palladium [or equivalents]
Helenus
Neoptolemus [or Pyhrrus]
This god was the recipient of a white robe made by Nanna. For 10 points each:
Name this wife of Odin and mother of Balder.
Frigg is permitted to sit in this seat of Odin, which grants the power to see the entire universe.
Frigg's use of Hlidskjalf causes a dispute with Odin over whether this giant is a poor host. This giant also captures Loki in hawk form and is ultimately killed by Thor after trying to encounter him without his belt and hammer.
Frigga
Hlidskjalf
Geirrod
This god sends disease to punish breakers of oaths, and is often depicted as a ram-horned, bearded snake.
Name this cattle-stealing earth god of Slavic myth.
Veles steals the cattle of this supreme thunder god of the Slavs, causing a foundational war in Slavic myth.
Veles was the ruler of this realm where birds migrated to in the winter. Yarillo also lived here during the cold season and was summoned back to Earth in the "rite of spring."
Veles
Perun
Virey [or Iriy]
These people performed the sparagmos and omphagia ritual, in which they tore apart a live bull and then ate it. For 10 points each:
Name these people, including Agave, who celebrated Bacchanalias.
The Maenads were the followers of this Greek god of wine.
This king of Edoni was cursed with madness by Dionysus and thought his son was an ivy plant, then pruned him to death.
Maenads
Dionysus
Lycurgus
This god was depicted carrying Tohil or Hunahpu in his mouth depending on the time of day.
Name this Mayan creator god.
Sculptures of Gukumatz at different times of day were often used to mark the boundaries of the court where this activity took place.
In the Popul Vuh, the creation of men and animals is accomplished by Gukumatz in collaboration with this little-discussed god, whose role is essentially as the partner in creation only.
Gukumatz
Mayan ball game [or tlachtli or whatever]
Tepeu
This deity is also known as the Gitche Manitou or Wakan Tanka.
Give this common English term for the supreme deity or mysterious essence of the world in American Indian mythologies.
This creator of the world in Southwestern Indian mythologies placed dew into a web and threw it into the sky to make the stars.
Spider Grandmother's provision of a reed passage to the Fourth World is the origin myth of these people, who are the source of most myths about Kokopelli.
the Great Spirit
Spider Grandmother
Hopi
These people include Nikita the Tanner, who opposed the dragon Zmey Gorynych, and Dobrynya Nikitich, who served Prince Vladimir.
Name these knights who are the subject of epics and folk tales from medieval Russia.
The most famous bogatyr is this man, who is given superpowers by Svyatogor and kills Nightingale the Robber.
The bogatyr Anika the Warrior is killed by the demon "Wonder" after setting out to destroy this building for some reason. This real building contains the Stone of Anointing and the Aedicule.
bogatyrs
Ilya Muromets
Church of the Holy Sepulchre
This event is usually described as happening when Gaia sent a huge scorpion, though an alternate version says that Apollo tricked Artemis into firing an arrow at an unidentified object.
Identify this event, after which Canis Major was created to keep its subject company in the sky.
Orion was blinded by Oenopion, possibly for raping this daughter on Chios.
Orion regained his sight after Hephaestus gave this servant to Orion and he was led to healing sunlight.
the death of Orion
Merope
Cedalion
The Krenaiai are a group of nymphs beneath this larger heading that live in fountains. For 10 points each:
Name these nymphs, who were generally the children of river-gods, and who were the guardians of sources of fresh water like rivers and springs. 
This Naiad tried to escape the river-god Alpheus by fleeing from Elis to Syracuse, where she turned into a namesake holy spring.
This Naiad tried to escape the river-god Alpheus by fleeing from Elis to Syracuse, where she turned into a namesake holy spring.
Naiads 
Arethousa 
Dirke [or Dirce]
When depicted as a male, this god was married to Uke Mochi, and in some stories he was murdered by Tsukuyomi instead of Uke Mochi dying at the hands of Susanoo. For 10 points each:
Name this androgynous kami of rice and agriculture who often took the form of a fox.
 In one story, Inari changes into one of these creatures in order to scare a wealthy man into sharing his money with some poor villagers. The tricksters Iktomi and Anansi also took this form
This legendary samurai was once saved from some spider goblins by his friend Watanabe. While disguised as a boy he befriended Benkei the Swordsman, who died with him after he was betrayed by Minamoto no Yoritomo.
Irari
spiders 
Raiko
One myth system relates that this figure died while standing up, though the builders he was supervising didn't notice until a termite chewed through his staff, causing his body to fall over. For 10 points each:
Identify this mythical ruler from Islamic legend, numbered among the three great monarchs with Dhul-Qarnayn and Dawud. He was given a fountain of copper and control over the winds.
Solomon's army included a large contingent of these sapient spirits, who are made of smokeless fire. Perhaps the most famous one of them, known as Iblis or Shaytan, refused to bow to Adam.
Not to be confused with the ifrit, these strongest of the djinn are noted for their massive size and their pride. They are generally associated with the color blue, the element of water, and the control of weather
King Solomon [or Sulayman; or any number of other stupid transliterations that sound the same]
djinni [prompt on "genies"]
marids [or marida]
While Lleu Llaw Gyffes was standing on these two objects, his wife Blodeuedd's lover Gronw hurled a spear at him and nearly killed him. For 10 points each
Name these two objects on which Lleu had to have his two feet while wrapped in a net at dusk, in order to be killed by a spear forged during Mass
Lleu Llaw Gyffes may have been the son, by incest, of Arianrhod and this Welsh trickster. Math repeatedly turns him and his brother Gilfaethwy into animals of complementary genders so that they have sex
Lleu Llaw Gyffes escaped death by transforming into one of these animals. Zeus took the form of one of these animals to abduct Ganymede.
a goat and a cauldron
Gwydion
an eagle [prompt on a bird]
The Buryat shamans of southern Siberia worship this god, who is usually married to Eje. For 10 points each:
Name this god of the blue sky also worshipped by Turkic peoples. It is believed that the confidantes of Genghis Khan also worshipped this god, but it's hard to tell since the Mongols were so religiously tolerant.
This integer is sacred to Tengri. This integer, which is so important to Kyrgyz foklore that the word "Kyrgyz" literally refers to this many tribes of people, is also the number of days that Jesus spent wandering in the desert.
These charms, used by Turks to ward off the evil eye, are thought to have emerged from a Tengriist tradition. They are typically blue with concentric white and blue dots painted on them.
Tengri [or Tenger Etseg]
forty 
nazar boncuğu
Kreon commanded this man to hunt down an animal so fast that it was fated never to be caught. For 10 points each:
Identify this Theban general, who borrowed Cephalus' dog Laelaps in his hunt for the Teumessian Fox.
In one of the tales of Uncle Remus, Br'er Fox successfully captures Br'er Rabbit  by fashioning a "tar baby." However, Br'er Rabbit escapes after facetiously begging Br'er Fox not to do this to him, which Br'er Fox foolishly does
A major antagonist in The Investiture of the Gods, this fox spirit-possessed concubine causes the downfall of the Shang Dynasty by showing King Zhou the joy of forcing his subjects to run on burning-hot cylinders.
Amphitryon
throwing him into a briar patch [synonyms for throwing acceptable, but briar patch is required; prompt on answers like throwing Br'er Rabbit into his hiding place]
 Da Ji
The Chinese figure that represents this is the White Tiger. For 10 points each:
Name this cardinal direction. In Greek mythology, the wind of this direction is represented by Zephyrus.
Imsety and Qebhesenuef are among these four gods from Egyptian myth, each of whom is associated with a cardinal direction.
Ix, one of this group of four Mayan giants, holds up the west. These sons of Itzamna and Ixchel also include Cauac, Kan, and Mulac.
west 
the canopic jar guardians [or the four sons of Horus]
Bacabs 
In one story, Thetis rendered Achilles invulnerable by anointing him with this substance and then passing him through a fire. For 10 points each:
Name this substance consumed by the Greek gods as either food or drink along with nectar.
In The Odyssey, this daughter of Proteus gives Menelaus ambrosia to protect him against the putrid smell of the sealskins under which he is hiding.
Some stories depict ambrosia as a nymph of the same name who turns into a grapevine after being killed by this Thracian king. This man was driven insane by Dionysius, mistook his son for an ivy plant, and pruned him to death.
Ambrosia 
Eidothea 
Lycargus 
Name some children of Heracles, for 10 points each.
With Meline, Heracles had a son of this name. A better-known character of this name was a king of Troy and father of Priam
This son of Heracles and Auge became king of Mysia. Achilles wounded him with a spear, and the wound was later healed using pieces of the same spear.
This daughter of Heracles offers herself as a sacrifice in Euripides' Heracleidae. She shares her name with a daughter of Hades mentioned in the Suda.
Laeomedon
Telephus 
Macaria 
When this character ignores Durvasa, he is so enraged that he curses the man who falls in love with her forget about her existence. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is remembered by Dushyanta when he is shown a ring that he had given her.
Shakuntala's mother, Menaka, was one of these cloud spirits, which are often married to Gandharvas.
Another character who angrily curses people is Kannagi, the wife of Kovalan from the Tamil epic Silapathikaram. That epic is canonized as one of this many "great epics" from Tamil literature.
Shakuntala 
Apsaras 
5
Answer stuff about apples in Norse myth, for 10 points each.
One of Odin's wish maidens became a crow and dropped an apple into this king's lap, or the lap of his queen. That resulted in the birth of this king's son Volsung, who was actually born after his dad, since he took six years to tear out of his mother's womb. 
These deities - otherwise known as Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld  - only allow Idun to pass into the picking field to harvest her apples of eternal youth. 
This goddess is attempted to be wooed by eleven of Idun's apples and by a precious ring made by Sindri, but she refuses those offers. When a sword is then pulled on her, she declares that she is a daughter of Gymir and will not be put in fear by threats, but her heart is finally softened by a speech of love.
Rerir 
Norns 
Gerd 
. This figure was so terrified at the skin of the Nemean Lion that he hid in a bronze jar and only heard of most further events at second hand through his herald Copreus. For 10 points each:
Name this favorite of Hera and administrator of the Labors of Hercules.
Eurystheus was king of this city, to the throne of which Heracles may have had the better claim. It forms the Argolid trio along with Argos and Mycenae.
The cyclopean walls of Tiryns were built during the reign of this mythical king. This husband of Sthenoboea was briefly expelled from the kingdom by his twin brother Acrisius.
Eurystheus 
Tiryns 
Proetus [do not accept or prompt on "Proteus"]
This hero disguised himself as a woman grinding corn to escape his foster-father's hall; later, he fell in love with Sigrun, a daughter of King Hogni. For 10 points each:
Identify this hero, who earned his epithet when he avenged his father Sigmund by killing Hunding, king of the Saxons
Helgi's wife Sigrun was one of these warrior-women from Norse mythology who took dead heroes from the battlefield to Valhalla.
In another episode, Sigmund narrowly escapes death at the hands of his brother-in-law Siggeir's mother, who transforms into one of these beings every night to kill one of the children of Volsung. Sigmund kills her by biting her tongue off as she tries to eat the honey off of his face.
Helgi Hudingsbane 
Valkyries 
a she-wolf 
This goddess may have originated as a plague-carrying tigress, but later became a personification of yin as the consort of Mu-Gong. For 10 points each:
Name this "Queen Mother of the West" who owns the three-legged raven Qingnaio. This goddess hands out peaches ripened over three thousand years in the garden of her palace at Mount Kunlun
Xi Wang Mu's peaches confer this trait, which is also possessed by eight Daoist heroes with jade handmaidens. Chiron gave up this trait after he was poisoned by an arrow dipped in hydra blood. 
Immortality is also presumably possessed by this "Divine Farmer" who domesticated the horse and ox and invented the plow and cart. This mythical emperor catalogued three hundred and sixty five medicinal herbs, including tea, and taught agriculture to mankind.
 Xi Wang Mu [accept variants like Hsi Wang Mu; accept Yaochi Jinmu]
immortality [accept equivalents]
Shen Nong
This god is usually depicted walking around on square snowshoes and carrying around his bow. For 10 points each:
Name this enigmatic Norse god of winter, a son of Sif and stepson of Thor.
Ullr is similar to this other Norse winter deity who went on skis. This giantess married Njord as compensation for the death of her father Thiazzi.
According to the Skaldskaparmal, the Aesir had to atone for Thiazzi's death by accomplishing this difficult feat, which Loki managed through a setup that involved attaching him to a goat by the testicles.
Ullr
Skadi [or Skathi]
making Skadi laugh [or equivalents that make it clear that Loki is causing laughter; prompt on entertaining Skadi; prompt on amusing Skadi]
This hero escaped a treacherously-set grassfire after his magic sword started spontaneously mowing the burning grass down. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who turns into a white bird after his death. His downfall comes after he misidentifies a mountain god in boar form as a messenger of that mountain god and is slain by a hailstorm on Mount Ibuki.
Yamato-Takeru's magic sword was this "grass-cutting sword" discovered by Susano'o in Orochi's corpse. It is part of the Imperial Regalia of Japan. It's Japanese. Japan.
In a moderately similar incident, Susano'o set a field on fire in an attempt to kill this future son-in-law of his, who was trying to marry Suseri-hime. He was the ruler of Izumo prior to Ninigi.
Prince Yamato-Takeru
Kusanagi [or Ame-no-Murakumo-no-Tsurugi]
Okuninushi
A boy pretending to observe distant places through a piece of bamboo dupes one of these creatures by trading the worthless plant for an actual invisibility cloak. For 10 points each:
Name these dog or bird-like creatures from Japanese folklore, who often use feather-fans to summon up great storms or to lengthen their already comically-exaggerated noses.
In an incident dramatized in Kurosawa's film The Men Who Tread on the Tiger's Tail, this great warrior, who legendarily learned swordsmanship from a tengu on Mount Kurama, disguised himself and his retainers as monks to pass a dangerous checkpoint. He was close friends with the monk Benkei.
Some sources speculate that the progenitor of the tengu was a monstrous goddess named Amanozako, who was vomited out by this deity. He once threw a flayed horse at his sister Amaterasu.
tengu
Minamoto no Yoshitsune [prompt on Minamoto, his family name]
Susano'o [or anything pronounced Susanowo; or Takehaya Susanoo-no-Mikoto; make fun of anyone who says His-Swift-Impetuous-Male-Augustness but give them the points]
nswer the following about women from Roman legend for 10 points each
As a baby, this warrior woman, an ally of the Rutulians, was tied to a spear and thrown across a river during her father's flight into exile.
This legendary Roman girl led a number of fellow hostages across the Tiber River to freedom. Her Etruscan captor Lars Porsena was so impressed that he gave her a horse.
This Roman traitor abandoned the Volscians and his planned assault on Rome after he was confronted by his mother, Volumnia, who asked if he viewed her as a prisoner of war.
Camilla
Cloelia
Coriolanus
Poseidon sent one of these creatures to woo Amphitrite on his behalf. For 10 points each:
 Name these animals, into which Dionysus turned the crew of a pirate ship
According to Ovid, this unusually friendly pirate was the only one not turned into a dolphin, leading him to become a devoted follower of Dionysus.
Herodotus is one source for the story of this poet, who was rescued by dolphins after more unfriendly pirates threw him into the sea.
dolphins
Acoetes
Arion
These creatures, whose dung was toxic, also had steel-tipped feathers. For 10 points each:
 Name these birds, which were defeated after a rattle made by Hephaestus frightened them out of their swamp, allowing them to be shot with poisoned arrows.
After Erysichthon was cursed to constant hunger for angering Demeter, he sold this daughter of his into slavery. Poseidon gave this girl the power to change into a bird so that she could repeatedly escape.
 This young man was transformed into a rooster because he fell asleep at his post and failed to stop Helios from walking in on Ares and Aphrodite.
Stymphalian Birds
Mestra
Alectryon
Put yourself in the shoes of the generic Russian folktale protagonist Ivan Tsarevich, for 10 points each.
 In different stories, you go to this witch's hut on chicken legs to obtain apples of youth and a horse that's way better than Koschey the Deathless's steed.
You abscond with Yelena the Beautiful because this creature, your best friend, transforms into a clone of her to give to Tsar Kusman. Even though you disregard this creature's advice when you go to fetch the Firebird and the horse with the golden mane, he still revives your sorry ass after you get killed by your jealous brothers.
In another story, the storm person of this type beats your wife with a bronze, an iron, and a lead rod until they all break, then wishes you both a happy marriage. Less-assholish examples of these knights include Alyosha Popovich and Ilya Muromets.
Baba Yaga
grey wolf [or seryj volk; or Canis lupis if you really want to do that]
bogatyrs
Scholars surmise that this object is shown at the bottom of the Tullstorp Runestone. For 10 points each:
Name this object captained by Hrym, which will arrive at Vigrid bearing legions of giants during Ragnarok. High admonishes readers to trim the nails of the dead, since this ship is made entirely from keratin.
 The Voluspa claims that Naglfar is helmed by this god, who was punished for his crimes by having a snake drip venom on his face.
Naglfari is also the name of the first husband of the thrice-married maternal grandmother of Thor, who rode the steed Hrimfaxi and personified this natural phenomenon.
 Naglfari
Loki [or Loptr; or Hvedrungr]
night [the goddess's name is Nott]
This man owned a magic cup which could be used to predict the future and observe the seven heavens, and he invented the use of the sudreh and the kushti. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical fourth king of the world in Iranian tradition, who invented brick masonry, winemaking, weaving, and the division of society into four classes.
Jamshid's deeds are recounted in this epic by Firdausi, which also tells of Rustam and Sohrab in its account of Iranian history.
Rustam is born with the assistance of this legendary bird of the Shah Nameh, who raises the abandoned Prince Zal.
Jamshid
the Shah Nameh [or Book of Kings]
Simurgh
Medea tried to have this man killed in order to preserve the inheritance rights of her son Medus. For 10 points each:
Name this man, whom Medea did her best to poison after he unexpectedly survived facing the Marathonian Bull.
An earlier foe faced by Theseus was this king of Eleusis, who challenged all comers to a deadly wrestling match.
This man killed Theseus by hurling him off a cliff in Skyros.
Theseus
Cercyon
Lycomedes [or Lycurgus]
The god of dawn, Khepri, took this animal form. For 10 points each:
Name these insects which were depicted on scarabs in Egyptian culture.
The hieroglyphic for scarab is similar to the one for Ptah, a creator god who was part of a triad of deities local to this city, along with Nefertem and Sekhmet. This city, whose necropolis was Saqqara, also worshipped Apis, Ptah's herald.
Two click beetles served as an early symbol for this creator goddess, the patron deity of Sais in the Nile Delta. She was depicted with arrows crossed over a shield in her role as goddess of war, and as the suckler of crocodiles in her role as the mother of Sobek.
dung beetles [or Scarabaeoidea; or Scarabus sacer]
Memphis
Neith
This woman was courted by a river god who appeared, according to various traditions, to either his rival or her father as a bull, a snake, and a man. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who later accidentally killed her husband with the blood of another river-dweller.
This river god lost a horn while fighting Heracles for the right to marry Deianeira. Some sources consider him the father of the Sirens.
This member of the Epigoni was freed from the Furies, who pursued him after the murder of his mother Eriphyle, when he found a recently-created island at the mouth of the river Achelous.
Deianeira
Achelous
Alcmaeon
One figure of this name agrees to a favor in return for marriage to the nymph Deiopea. For 10 points each:
Give this name shared by the often-conflated sons of Poseidon, Hippotes, and Hellen.
One later source for the wind god Aeolus holds that he sent this daughter of his a sword with which to kill herself after learning that she had committed incest with her brother Macareus
One Aeolus was the father of this king of Boetia, whose children were saved from their stepmother by a creature sent by their mother Nephele.
Aeolus
Canace
Athamas
 In Denmark, this event involves an ugly creature called the Slattenpat throwing her breasts over her shoulders to run faster. For 10 points each:
Name this common mythological event in Northern Europe, in which psychopomps like Gwyn ap Nudd emerge from the underworld with spectral hounds to chase wrongdoers to the end of the earth. Witnessing this event typically meant that you were going to die.
Many stories include this son of Uther Pendragon as a leader of the Wild Hunt.
Another leader of the Wild Hunt in Welsh mythology, Arawn, befriends this man when they both hunt the same stag. This hero later courts Rhiannon.
Wild Hunt
King Arthur
Pwyll Pen Annwn
The city of Shuruppak was holy to this goddess, who in some stories changed her name from Sud. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess of the air and of grain, who conceived different children when her husband impregnated her in the guise of water, the gatekeeper, the underworld river, and the boatman.
Ninlil's charming consort Enlil orchestrated this cataclysmic event to wipe out humanity because he couldn't tolerate their noise. Fortunately, Ea helped Utnapishtim survive it in a manner similar to a Biblical story.
One of Ninlil's children was the god Nanna, or Sin, who ruled this domain.
Ninlil [or Mullissu]
great flood [or deluge; accept any synonyms]
the moon [or Luna]
This figure was usually depicted as a fish-tailed merman with red-spiked skin, and a harbor in Ithaca was dedicated to him. FTPE:
Name this ancient god of the deep sea who was the father of the Echidna, the Graeae, and the Gorgons with his wife Ceto. 
Another ancient sea god, Manannan Mac Lir, gave birth to this queen of Tir na Nog, who rides her swift horse Embarr across the waves so she can be with the bard Ossian.  
This super-old Canaanite god of the sea worshipped in Ugarit is defeated in an epic battle by Baal, who dismembers his body. Riding high after defeating this god, Baal sets up his house and tells the god of death Mot to suck off. 
 Phorcys
Niamh (or Niav, Neve, Neave, Neeve, or Nieve) 
Yam (or Yammu, or Yaw)
In one story, this hero is traveling through the wilderness with the king Enmerkar when he's paralyzed and cannot move, until he eats the Plant and Water of Life. FTPE:
Name this Sumerian hero who, in a second epic story, encounters the Anzu bird, who grants him the power of super speed so he can help his people defeat the city of Aratta. 
Much like the Anzu bird, this bird in the Ramayana helps out an epic hero by trying to stop the kidnapping of Sita, but he's killed fighting the demon Ravana. This king of the vultures was either the son of Aruna, or more impressively, the son of Garuda. 
In other stories, the Zu is not nearly as helpful, because it steals this key item away from Enlil and hides it on its mountain. Tiamat put this item around the body of her consort Kingu, before they were taken by Marduk when he killed Kingu.
Lugalbanda 
Jatayu [or Jayatus]
Tablets of Dynasty 
Answer questions about things being set on fire in Norse mythology, FTPE
The pyre of Balder was set on fire after he was put on this dragon-ship with his wife Nanna. Then, this boat was launched into the sea by the giantess Hyrrokin. 
This sorceress, who may have been Freya in disguise, was burned to death three times by the Aesir gods but emerged each time reborn, leading to the Aesir-Vanir war.  
In his form as an eagle, the giant Thiassi has his wings burned up by Odin and his friends, after Loki attracts his attention by turning this goddess into a nut. This goddess was the guardian of the golden apples of youth, and had earlier been abducted by Thiassi
Ringhorn
Gullveig (or Heid)
Idunna [or Ithunna]
This deity is asked by queen Hannahanna to look into the disappearance of Telepinu, but he gives up when his hammer breaks. FTPE:
Name this deity who was born when his father Kumarbi swallowed Anu's genitals. He was the Hurrian god of weather and storms, who was once opposed by the stone giant Ullikummi.   
Teshub is also known for slaying this dragon after consulting with Inara, who advised him to get the dragon drunk. Other stories say this dragon stole Teshub's eyes and heart, but they were later restored, and then Teshub got revenge.  
The aforementioned stone giant Ullikummi shares similarities with this monster from Greek mythology who is the husband of Echidna. He tore out all of Zeus's tendons, but Zeus zapped him with thunderbolts and put him under Mount Etna.
Teshub
Illuyankas 
Typhon [or Typhoneus]
Answer some questions about the dreaded bat in mythology, FTPE. 
This vampire bat god was honored by the Quiche Maya people, and is often depicted holding a knife to his victims. The Hero Twins venture into his house in the Popol Vuh, and trick this stupid bat by hiding in their blowguns. 
The bat is a sacred animal to this Aztec god of death who appears as a skeleton and rules the lowest level of the underworld with his similarly-named wife. When Quetzalcoatl comes into his dominion to steal some bones, he sends a quail to try to chase him down.
An obscure tale says that a bat-like creature appeared from thin air to help out this trickster after his eight legs became bound to the Wax Girl. 
Camazotz
Mictlantecuhtli (Mictlan-Tecutli) 
Anansi
Answer these questions about non-Roman mythical figures who the Romans put where they didn't really belong Â– in Italy, FTPE. 
Romans believed that they literally shipped this goddess from Phrygia to Rome in the form of a black stone in 204 BC. This fertility goddess and earth mother had such lovers as the castrated Attis
Cybele [prompt "Magna Mater"]
In Roman imagination, Aeneas's ancestor Dardanus hailed from an existent Italian town of this name, from which he went to found Troy. Another figure of this name was the son of Paris and Oenone - after this guy fell in love with his step-mother Helen, he was mistakenly killed by his own father. 
Cybele [prompt "Magna Mater"]
Nemi
Corythus [accept Cortona, even though that's only the town's name and not the people]
Also known as the Lacrimacorpus dissolvens, this creature was first mentioned in the book Fearsome Creatures of the Lumberwoods, and it will dissolve into a pool of tears if you try to catch it. FTPE: 
Name this legendary creature who roams the forests of Pennsylvania and constantly weeps because its skin is covered with warts. 
Another creature mentioned in the Book of Imaginary Beings is the Haokah, a spirit of this culture who does comically opposite things like riding a horse backwards. A better known trickster of these people is the spider god Iktomi, the son of the rock Inyan. 
Another creature feared by lumberjacks everywhere is the Hoop Snake, who rolls into you and eats you unless you confuse it by diving through its hoop. It's probably inspired by this ancient Egyptian symbol which, as its Greek name implies, is a snake eating its own tail.  
Squonk 
Lakota (prompt on "Injuns") 
Ouroboros (or Uroboros, or varying pronunciations that omit vowels in the word)
Answer the following about the Greek goddess Tyche, FTPE. 
The husband of Tyche was often said to be this Greek folk god, whose name roughly translates as "good spirit." Like Tyche, he's sometimes shown as a snake with healing power, and drops of unmixed wine were poured to supplicate this deity at the close of a festival.  
The natural counterpart of Tyche was this daughter of Erebus and Nyx worshipped at Rhamnous. She was in charge of doling out retribution to men who had too much good luck.  
Tyche's cult center was in Pherae, which was ruled over by this gracious king, who took part in the Calydonian boar hunt. His wife Alcestis offered to die in his place, and had to be rescued by Hercules
Agathos Daimon [or Agathodaemon] 
Nemesis 
Admetus 
This text questionably claims that Odin was a descendant of Thor, and even more dubiously claims that Thor was Priam's grandson who married the Cumaean Sibyl, who was Sif. FTPE:
Name this bizarre section of a larger work, which attempts to unify the story of Adam and Eve, the legends of the Trojan War, and Norse mythology
The Prose Edda, preface and all, was written by this Icelandic historian
Snorri also wrote this historical work, which begins with the Ynglinga Saga and describes the kings of Norway, ending with Magnus Erlingsson
the prologue to the Prose Edda [or the preface to the Prose Edda; or any equivalents]
Snorri Sturluson [or Snorri Sturluson]
the Heimskringla
This ruler of the Seventh Heaven is the sibling of Shekhinah, whose name means "Patience." For 10 points each:
Name this figure that brings prayers to God. With Metatron, he harmonizes the total amount of energy in the world by channeling the world's energy into a shape of the figure 8.
Sandalphon is one of these beings, who possess more than one pair of wings. Other examples include Raphael and Gabriel
Sandalphon also appears in many sources of extra-canonical literature in the visions of this prophet, who sees the chariot of God.
Sandalphon
archangels [prompt on angels]
Ezekiel
In one story, this princess is a writer of poetry who entrusts "Phemius the Bard" with the circulation of her poems. FTPE:
Name this mythical figure, who was a target of a palace conspiracy in the Sicilian city of Drepanum. In a less mythological source, she hails from the Valley of the Wind and must prevent the kingdom of Tolmekia from stirring up some mutant insects. 
In a best-known version, Nausicaa is the daughter of Alcinous and a princess of these people, who were said to have been plundered by the Cyclopes
This author suggests that Nausicaa wrote the real Homer in his book The Authoress of the Odyssey. He also wrote the essay "Darwin Among the Machines" under the name Cellarius, and wrote The Way of All Flesh. 
Nausicaa
Phaeicians 
Samuel Butler 
The most famous image of this god is the Gundestrap cauldron, where he sits in a yoga pose holding a serpent and torc, surrounded by animals. FTPE:
Name this "horned god" of Celtic myth whose name may stem from the Gallish for horn. He might have been the god that Caesar referred to as Dis Pater, and often carries a bag of grain
Cernunnos may be related to this alliterative "hunter" from English folklore, who's the keeper of Windsor Forest. He appears with antlers, sometimes as a ghost beneath the namesake oak tree on which he may have been hanged. 
Both of those figures have been connected to this Greek huntsman, who saw the goddess Artemis taking a bath, and as a result, was turned into a stag. He was then torn apart by his own hounds
Cernunnos (or Carnunnos, or Cernunnos)
Herne the Hunter
Actaeon 
18. In Scandinavian folklore, one group of these creatures killed all the cows belonging to a dairy maid. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these long-eared mischievous creatures, who in Norse mythology were divided into light and dark subtypes, who respectively lived in Alfheim and Svartalfheim. 
[10] This other kind of sprite is a kind of house servant in Germanic folklore. They are usually invisible, but can assume a humanlike form the size of a child. 
[10] This more sinister spirit from Celtic mythology is a shape-shifting horse that haunts Scottish and Irish rivers and streams, dragging children underwater, devouring them, and leaving only their hearts and livers. Ew. 
ANSWER: elves [or elfs; or ells; prompt on "fairies"] 
ANSWER: kobolds 
ANSWER: kelpies 
In one story, this figure's soul is hidden inside an egg, which is inside a duck, which is inside a rabbit, which is buried under an oak tree on a magical island.  For 10 points each:
Name this evil figure from Slavic folklore who is eventually done in by Bulat the Brave despite being notoriously hard to kill.
Koshchei is often doing dastardly deeds like kidnapping princesses; in one story he teams up with this witch to do so.  She lives in a hut on birds' legs, flies around in a mortar and pestle, and likes to eat children.
Usually, Koshchei rides a seven-legged horse, but in some stories, he instead rides a three-legged one of these animals.  In Norse mythology, Thor's chariot is pulled by two of them, which he routinely eats and resurrects.
Koshchei the Deathless [or the Immortal]
Baba-Yaga
goats
They often end up married to the figures responsible for guarding the soma, the Gandharvas, and their number includes Menaka, who seduced the aesthetic Viswamitra. For 10 points each:
Identify these celestial maidens from Hindu mythology.
This Apsara was freed from a demon by Pururavas, whom she married. She was cursed by Bharat such that when Pururavas saw her son, she would have to return to heaven.
The Apsaras danced in the court of this Vedic thunder god, who in an earlier story drank a whole bunch of soma in order to kill the demon Vritra.
Apsaras
Urvashi
Indra
She was sometimes considered to be the spouse of the Agathos Daimon, and she was generally depicted wearing a mural crown. For 10 points each:
Identify this counterpart of Nemesis, a Greek goddess who carried a wheel of fortune and a ship's rudder to symbolize her control over luck and fate, respectively.
Both Tyche and her Roman counterpart Fortuna were often depicted holding one of these items, which various myths claim to have been torn from the head of Achelous or Amalthea by Heracles or Zeus, respectively. It produces an unending supply of food.
This son of Nauplius and Clymene invented such things as counting, jokes, eleven different consonants, and dice, the last of which he naturally dedicated to Tyche. He also tricked Odysseus into joining the Trojan war by putting Telemachus in front of his plow.
Tyche [don't accept "Fortuna"]
cornucopia [or horn of plenty]
Palamedes
In his most famous poem, Robert Hamerling compared Nero to this figure, while in an 1844 novel, this figure is responsible for spreading cholera. For 10 points each:
Identify this mythical figure whose fate, along with that of his sister Herodias, was linked to that of the Rennepont family in a novel by Eugene Sue. He was given the name Isaac Laquedem in a Dumas novel, but he is more commonly called Ahasver or Ahasuerus.
The Wandering Jew appears in a number of novels by this author, starring in The Sibyl and The Death of Ahasuerus, two entries in a pentalogy that began with this Swede's 1950 novel Barabbas.
The Wandering Jew also appears in The Manuscript Found in Saragossa, a frame-tale-heavy story about the Walloon Guardsman Alphonse van Worden that was written by this Polish author-adventurer.
the Wandering Jew [or Der Ewige Jude; or Le Juif Errant; or L'Ebreo Errante; or El JudÃ­o Errante; or Juan el que Espera a Dios; prompt on any of the names mentioned in the question itself]
PÃ¤r Fabian Lagerkvist
Jan Nepomucen Potocki
In the Lokasenna, Loki mocks this goddess for sleeping with a boy who gave her a necklace. For 10 points each:
Identify this virgin member of the Aesir, who created Lake Malar when she used four oxen from Jotunheim to plow up the land that became the island of Zealand.
Gefjon's story is related in both the Gylfaginning and this collection of tales about Norwegian kings, which opens with the Ynglinga Saga.
The story about Gefjon and the necklace parallels the tale of this goddess sleeping with a bunch of dwarves in order to acquire Brisingamen. This Vanir goddess of love rides in a chariot pulled by cats.
Gefjon [or Gefion; or Gefjun]
the Heimskringla [accept The Circle of the World]
Freya [or Freyja; or Froia; definitely not "Frigg" or "Frigga" though]
Identify the following about giant monsters, for 10 points each.
In an attempt to overthrow Teshub, the Hurrian god Kumarbi fucked a cliff face in order to father this sentient volcanic pillar, which he placed on Upelluri's shoulder. Ea eventually saved the day by cutting off this thing's feet.
The fire-breathing chicken Basan and Daidarabotchi, whose footprints created lakes, are among the largest of these supernatural Japanese monsters. This term also encompasses things like tengu, kappa, and oni.
This badass Greek monster fathered a number of lesser monsters with Echidna and once stole Zeus's sinews after besting the god in a fight. In revenge, Zeus trapped him under Mount Etna.
Ullikummi
yokai
Typhon [or Typhoeus; or Typhaon; or Typhos]
Name these creatures from Native American myth, FTPE:
This trickster figure is given different characteristics in different traditions, but is generally said to have created man by kicking up a ball of mud.
In Wasco tradition Coyote fasted for ten days before fighting this animal. In another myth, this animal plunges into the ocean to fight a monster whale.
A legend of the Pacific Northwest tribes tells of Raven stabbing the foot of this creature to get him to drop the box he was carrying, which contained the light of the world. Out of the box came the sun, the moon, and the stars.
Coyote
Thunderbird
Seagull
Aeneas encounters many omens and prophecies during his journey. For 10 points each:
When Aeneas and his men drives away the Harpies from the Strophades, this eldest Harpy curses that the men would be unable to gird their promised city until hunger forces them to gnaw and devour their tables.
At Chaonia, Aeneas finds this seer, a son of Priam who essentially defected to the Greeks after losing a contest to his brother Deiphobus. He tagged along with Neoptolemus after the war.
This priestess instructs Aeneas to obtain the golden bough and guides Aeneas to Hades. She prophecies that a foreign bride will once again cause a ton of trouble for the Trojans.
Celaeno
Helenus
Cumaean Sibyl [prompt on Deiphobe]
This work's 8th stanza describes a "game [played] in the home field" and the game is referenced again in stanza 61, which speaks of "golden gaming pieces... which in ancient times they had before." For 10 points each:
Identify this section of the Poetic Edda which also speaks of the killing and burning of a woman named Heid.
The end of the Voluspa tells of the aftermath of Ragnarok, which will also see the resurrection of this son of Odin, killed accidentally by Hoder through the machinations of Loki.
The Voluspa also tells of how this god, together with Odin and Lodur, bestowed on Ask and Embla the gifts they needed to survive. This mysterious god's gift was od, the gift of poetry.
Voluspa
Baldr
Hoenir
His death occurs after the Vanir discover that their chief, Hoenir, says only "let others decide" without him at his side. For 10 points each:
Name this hostage sent by the Aesir who, after being beheaded, has his head preserved by Odin and enchanted to speak. He was later exchanged for Kvasir.
Mimir is said to drink out of his namesake well of wisdom using this horn which shares its name with the horn Heimdall blows to signal Ragnarok.
Viktor Rydberg theorized that this figure was Mimir's wife. The title figure of the Fjolvinnsmal tells Svipdagr to bring this giantess a sickle from Vidopnir's feathers to exchange for the wand Laevateinn, which this figure guards.
Mimir
Gjallarhorn
Sinmara [or Sinmora]
Later traditions recognized four of these figures; specifically, Thelxinoē, Aoedē, Arche, and Meletē. For 10 points each:
Identify these nine daughters of Mnemosyne who turned the daughters of king Pierus into magpies. Their ranks include Urania, whose domain was astronomy, and Calliope, the one of epic poetry.
The Muses should perhaps have recused themselves from judging the musical contest between this satyr and Apollo. When they found Apollo to be superior, Apollo flayed this guy alive and nailed his skin to a pine tree.
This son of Philamon and Argiope was a student of Linus who thought himself a good enough singer to challenge the Muses. He was wrong, and for his presumption the Muses blinded him. Lesson learned: don't fuck with the Muses.
the Muses [or mousai]
Marsyas
Thamyris
This god gave his sister's hand in marriage to Sarutahiko, and he and his wife Konoyanasakuya-hime are the parents of Hoori and Hoderi. For 10 points each:
Identify this Shinto rice god, the great-grandfather of Emperor Jimmu, who received the imperial sword Kusanagi from his grandmother Amaterasu.
Amaterasu also gave Ninigi a mirror called "Yata no kagami" and this final piece of the Imperial Regalia, which is variously thought to be either a necklace of curved jade beads or one large jewel.
Uzume hung that mirror on a tree and performed a comic strip-tease on an overturned tub to lure Amaterasu out of a cave in which she was hiding after becoming upset with this rude storm god, her brother.
Ninigi-no-mikoto
the Yasakani no Magatama [prompt on "Magatama"]
Susano'o [or Susanowo; or Susanowa; or Tatehaya Susanoo-no-Mikoto; or His Swift Impetuous Male Augustness]
Identify some animals from the mythology of the British Isles, none of whom are Palug's Cat due to Ryan Westbrook having ruined it for everyone, for 10 points each.
In the tale of Culhwch and Olwen, King Arthur joins in the hunt for this gigantic boar whose hair contains a comb and scissors sought by the giant Ysbaddaden.
The hag Mallt-y-nos sometimes acccompanied the Cwn Annwn, a group of these animals owned by Arawn and used by Gwynn ap Nudd on the Wild Hunt. Cu Chulainn got his name when he killed, then served as a temporary replacement for, the one that guarded Culann's house.
Two squabbling pig-keepers who worked for Bodb Dearg were turned into worms, then eventually reborn. One of them became Finnbhennach, or "Whitehorn", while the other became this creature, who Medb sought to possess in order to be richer than her husband Aillil.
Twrch Trwyth
dogs [or watchdogs or hounds or puppies or mutts or Canidae or, you know, dogs]
Donn CÃºailnge [or the Brown Bull of Cooley]
