This god and Thoth, with whom he is sometimes identified, discuss the secrets of the universe in a text from the <em>Hermetica</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian god whose association with medicine has little to do with his mortal origins as a priest and architect who lived in the 28th century B.C.
The mythology that developed around the deified Imhotep included making him the son of this god, whose temple was where the Shabaka Stone was first erected. He formed a triad with his wife Sekhmet and his daughter Nefertem.
Imhotep was often said to appear in Egyptians' dreams as either a shining human or as one of these insects, which also represented Khepri, the god who rolled the Sun across the sky.
Imhotep
Ptah
scarab beetle [or scarabs; accept dung beetle(s); prompt on beetles]  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
This character's nurse wishes that trees had never been felled to make the <em>Argo</em> in a Euripides play that ends with her killing her children and flying off in a chariot pulled by dragons. For 10 points each:
Name this sorceress who marries Jason after helping him acquire the Golden Fleece.
Medea was a princess of this kingdom in modern Georgia that was the destination of the Argonauts. It was ruled by her father Aeëtes ("eye-EE-teez").
In the Argonautica, Jason murders this brother of Medea in order to escape from Aeëtes. In other traditions, Medea dismembers him herself and throws his limbs behind her.
Medea
Colchis ("COAL-kiss")
Absyrtus [accept Apsyrtus]  &lt;Rosenthal, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about classical gods of wealth, for 10 points each.
Plutus, the Greek god of wealth, was often conflated in various ways with Pluto, one of the names for a god of this domain.
Romans seeking wealth often prayed to this goddess, the equivalent of the Greek Tyche, who was often depicted carrying a wheel that symbolized the capricious nature of fate.
This Roman god was responsible for the mineral and agricultural riches of the Earth. He was later identified with Pluto, and has a two-word name that translates to "father of Riches."
the underworld [accept Hades; prompt on the Earth or underground]
Fortuna [prompt on Fortune]
Dis Pater  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
This woman's declaration that she shouldn't have to wash her hair in the same water as Gudrun prompts Gudrun to produce a ring that once belonged to this woman. For 10 points each:
Name this female warrior who, in the Völsunga saga, orders her husband Gunnar to have her former betrothed Sigurd killed.
In Norse myths, Brunhild is generally identified as a shield-maiden or as one of these female warriors, who bring half of those who die in battle to Valhalla.
Performing this action was a prerequisite for marrying Brunhild. Gunnar failed to perform this task twice even though he used two different horses, after which Sigurd took his shape and did it for him.
Brunhild [or Brunhilda; or Brünnhilde; or Brynhildr]
valkyries
riding through the ring of fire around her tower [accept any answer that indicates crossing or passing through fire or flames]  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
In Herodotus's version of this man's story, he sees the queen Nyssia naked, after which she offers him the option to kill the king Candaules ("kan-duh-LEEZ") and marry her. For 10 points each:
Name this shepherd, who in another mythological appearance becomes king after he finds an invisibility-granting ring within an iron horse in a large cave and uses it to seize power.
Another mythical Gyges is one of the Hecatoncheires ("heh-kah-TON-keh-reez"), whose name refers to the fact that they have one hundred of these body parts.
Both Gygeses are not to be confused with Ogyges ("oj-IJ-eez"), the namesake of a flood that ends the Silver Age in this poem by Hesiod. It also contains Hesiod's attempts to instruct his brother Perses in farming.
Gyges ("JIE-jeez")
hands [accept hundred-handed ones; prompt on arms]
the Works and Days [accept Erga kai hemerai]  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
Shakuni owned several of these objects that magically obeyed his will. For 10 points each:
Give these objects used in a game that Yudhishthira ("yood-heesh-thir") repeatedly loses, resulting in the loss of the Pandavas' wife Draupadi and later their thirteen-year exile.
The results of that dice game later set the stage for this conflict, a protracted war between the Kauravas and the Pandavas. This war is named for an ancient Vedic kingdom.
Both the Dice Game and the Kurukshetra War are major episodes in this Sanskrit epic attributed to the sage Vyasa.
dice [or die]
Kurukshetra War [prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal the Mahabharata War]
the Mahabharata  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
A suitor of this goddess disguises himself as an old woman to tell her the tale of Iphis and Anaxarete, which warns of the danger of rejecting suitors. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman goddess of fruit and orchards who eventually married Vertumnus despite rejecting him several times.
Pomona was often depicted alongside the goddesses Flora and Ceres, the latter of whom is the Roman equivalent of this Greek goddess of agriculture.
According to Ovid, Pomona also rejected the love of Picus, a king of Latium who was transformed into this kind of bird by Circe for scorning her. One of these birds also helped feed the infant Romulus and Remus.
Pomona
Demeter
woodpeckers  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about drinking blood in Greek mythology, for 10 points each:
During Odysseus's nekyia ("neh-KOO-yuh"), he sacrifices a ram and a ewe so the spirits of the dead can drink its blood to communicate with him, though the ghost of this Theban prophet and seer is able to recognize Odysseus even before drinking the blood.
Some scholars suggest that blood-drinking was an important element of the worship of this Greek goddess, whose primary domains included witchcraft and crossroads.
A blood-drinking creature called the Vrykolatios ("vrih-koh-LAH-tee-ohs") was said to live on this island, which was legendarily created when the Argonaut Euphemus threw a clod of earth into the sea. Its fate may have inspired the myth of Atlantis.
Tiresias
Hecate
Santorini [accept Thera or Akrotiri] (A massive volcanic eruption during the Minoan civilization destroyed much of the original island.)  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
The Gunwinggu ("gun-WING-goo") people call this creature Ngalyod ("NYAH-lod") and believe it rests under billabongs ("BILL-uh-bongs") during the dry season. For 10 points each:
Give the common two-word English term for this creature that lives in waterholes and, in many stories, creates the world during a prehistoric era called the Dreamtime.
Various versions of the Rainbow Serpent appear in the myths of the indigenous peoples of Australia, who are collectively referred to with this term.
In an Aboriginal story about the origin of death, one of these animals debates with a crab about the best way to die. A three-legged example of these animals called yata-garasu led the first Japanese emperor, Jimmu, to his new homeland.
Rainbow Serpent [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
Aborigines [accept Aboriginal Australians]
crows [accept ravens or Australian ravens or Corvus or corvids]  &lt;Alston, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
Thucydides says that two kings of Athens, Erechtheus (eh-REK-thee-us) and Cecrops ("KEY-crops"), wore jewelry made from cicadas in their hair since both cicadas and the kings had this unusual manner of birth. For 10 points each:
Give this Greek term for beings that sprung, often fully formed, from the soil.
Many autochthons (aw-TAHK-thuns) are described as children of this Titaness of the earth, who is the mother and wife of Uranus.
According to the Critias, all the kings of this land descended from an autochthonous being named Evenor. The primary source describing this mythical kingdom situates it beyond the pillars of Hercules.
autochthonous (aw-TAHK-thun-us) [do not accept or prompt on "chthonic"]
Gaia [accept Gaea]
Atlantis  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
This god is typically depicted wearing a cape called the <em>chlamys</em>, which may explain why ancient Greek couriers also wore it. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek god, a messenger and trickster who was also often shown wearing a winged hat and sandals.
Hermes' other possessions include this herald's staff entwined by two snakes, which became a symbol of commerce and later developed into the astrological sign for Mercury.
This son of Hermes was the charioteer of King Oenomaus (ee-noh-may-us). At the request of Pelops, who wanted to marry Oenomaus's daughter, he replaced the king's chariot's linchpins with wax.
Hermes [or Mercury]
caduceus (kah-DOO-see-us or kah-DOO-shuss) [or kerykeion]
Myrtilus  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
This character gives millet dumplings to a dog, a pheasant, and a monkey to secure their assistance in assaulting bands of <em>oni</em> that were terrorizing the countryside. For 10 points each:
Name this folk hero who grew into a warrior after an elderly couple found him inside a giant peach that fell from the sky.
The peach that fell from heaven originally landed in one of these geographical features. Five of them, including the Acheron ("AK-er-on") and the Lethe ("LEE-thee"), encircled the underworld in Greek myth.
In Japanese folklore, rivers were also home to these amphibious yokai who carry water in a depression on their heads. They are fond of wrestling and cucumbers.
Momotaro
rivers [prompt on waterways; do not accept or prompt on "ocean(s)" or "lake(s)"]
kappa  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the mythical Norse chain Gleipnir:
The god Tyr sacrificed his hand so that Gleipnir could be used to bind this vicious wolf to the island of Lyngvi.
Gleipnir was constructed from six supposedly-impossible objects, including the beard of one of these figures. Embla was the first one of them in Norse mythology.
Another of those six impossible things was the sound produced by one of these animals. After Thor loses a drinking contest, Utgard-Loki requests that he lift what appears to be a large one of these animals.
Fenrir [accept Fenrisulfr or Fenris wolf]
woman or women [accept female human(s); do not accept or prompt on "human(s)" alone]
cats (The footfalls of a cat were used to construct Gleipnir. The cat in Utgard-Loki's hall was actually Jormungandr.)  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
This woman offers the advice "fill your belly with good things; day and night, night and day, dance and be merry, feast and rejoice." For 10 points each:
Name this alewife whose advice is ignored by a hero who seeks Utnapishtim (oot-nah-PISH-tim) in a quest for immortality.
Siduri's advice is ignored by this king of Uruk, the namesake of a Mesopotamian epic.
To reach Utnapishtim, Gilgamesh is told by Urshanabi to go one of these places and create 120 poles. Earlier in the epic, Shamash sends Gilgamesh three dreams while he is on the way to one of these places.
Siduri
Gilgamesh [accept the Epic of Gilgamesh]
forests [accept cedar forest; accept answers indicating an area with trees]  &lt;Bentley, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about the afterlife in Inuit myths, for 10 points each.
After her father Anguta ("an-GOO-tah") throws her out of his boat, then chops off her fingers when she tries to hang on, this goddess becomes the ruler of Adlivun ("AHD-lee-voon"), the underworld where souls are purified.
Souls are brought to Adlivun by the goddess Pinga in her role as one of these figures, whose Greek-derived name literally means "guide of souls."
After souls have been purified in Adlivun, they move on to their eternal rest in Qudlivun (KOOD-lee-voon), which is in this location. In Greek myth, this celestial body is personified by the goddess Selene.
Sedna
psychopomps
the Moon [accept Luna]  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
According to Tertullian, worshippers of this god would have crowns placed on their heads, which they were expected to reject, then assert that this god "is my true crown." For 10 points each:
Name this Greco-Roman god based on a Persian divinity with a similar name, whose cult was popular in the late Roman army.
Many icons show Mithras alongside figures called cautes (COW-tays) and cautopates (cow-TOH-pah-tays) who hold these items. The goddess Hecate (HEH-kuh-tee) was often shown carrying these items.
The central scene of the cult of Mithras, the tauroctony (tor-AHK-tuh-nee), shows the slaying of one of these animals. Zeus took the form of one of these animals to abduct Europa.
Mithras [accept Mithra or Mitra]
torches
bulls [prompt on cows or bovines or cattle]  &lt;Alston, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
According to Ovid, this god turned five nymphs into the Echinades islands after they forgot to worship him. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek god who was sometimes said to be the source of all the world's rivers. He lost one of his horns in a wrestling match with a hero.
Heracles broke off Achelous's horn while battling him for the hand of this Calydonian princess, who became Heracles's final mortal wife and inadvertent killer.
This object, which overflows with food or flowers, was created from either the horn that Heracles took from Achelous or from one of the horns of the goat Amalthea.
Achelous ("ah-keh-LOH-us")
Deianira ("day-ah-NYE-rah")
cornucopia [prompt on horn of plenty]  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
Jane Allison's novel <em>The Lost Love</em> depicts Ovid falling in love with a woman with this name during his exile. For 10 points each:
Give this Greek word that is often translated as "hospitality." It refers to the virtue of showing graciousness to unknown guests, especially since they might be gods in disguise.
Ovid illustrates the concept of xenia with the story of this Phrygian ("FRIDGE"-ee-un) couple, who are spared from a flood after showing hospitality to the disguised Jupiter and Mercury. These two people were then turned into a pair of entwined trees.
Another excellent practitioner of xenia is this princess, who encounters the shipwrecked Odysseus on the coast of Phaeacia ("fee-AY-shuh"), then provides him food and clothing before bringing him to the palace of Alcinous ("al-KIH-noh-us").
xenia ("KSEN-ee-ah") [accept theoxenia]
Baucis and Philemon [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
Nausicaä ("naw-SIK-ey-uh")  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about unusual beings encountered in the less prominent adventures of Heracles, for 10 points each.
Heracles's weapons were once stolen by the mischievous Cercopes (ser-koh-peez), who were turned into these animals by Zeus in a myth that explains their name, which derives from the word for "tail."
While freeing Prometheus, Heracles encountered and killed one of these birds that had eaten the Titan's liver every day. Heracles then placed it in the stars as the constellation Aquila.
Heracles killed a sea monster sent by Poseidon to attack this city, whose king Laomedon had planned to sacrifice his daughter Hesione to stop it. When Laomedon refused to provide Heracles his promised reward, he sacked this city.
monkeys
eagles
Troy [or Ilium; or Ilion]  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
Name these Greek mythological figures said to have invented all or part of the alphabet, for 10 points each.
A play by Aeschylus claims that this Titan, who brought fire to mankind, also created the alphabet for mankind to use.
According to Hyginus, these goddesses created the vowels, as well as the consonants B and T. Their Roman equivalents were the Parcae (par-kye), and they are very similar to the Norse Norns.
Hyginus also claims that this inventor of dice also created the other eleven consonants. He ingeniously placed the infant Telemachus in front of Odysseus's plow to prove that the latter was feigning insanity.
Prometheus
the Fates [or Moirae]
Palamedes  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
In <em>Prometheus Bound</em>, Prometheus describes these characters as "swan-shaped" while advising Io to visit them on the plain of Kisthene. For 10 points each:
Name these ancient winged sisters whose names were Deino, Enyo, and Pemphredo. They shared a single eye and a single tooth.
This Greek hero stole the single eye of the Graeae and refused to return it until they revealed the location of the Gorgon Medusa.
The Graeae are alternately referred to as the daughters of this primordial sea god, who also fathered Echidna, Ladon, and various other monsters with his wife Ceto.
Graeae (GRY-ee) [accept the Gray Ones or the Gray Sisters; prompt on but DO NOT OTHERWISE MENTION the Phorcydes]
Perseus
Phorcys (FOR-sis)  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
A woman who was born with the name Wen Shi was deified for her efforts raising five of these creatures, who are depicted on teak boats raced during the Duanwu festival. For 10 points each:
Name these auspicious creatures from Chinese mythology, in which they are the only mythical animal to appear in the zodiac.
After traveling to the underwater kingdom of Ao Guang, the Dragon King of the East Sea, this character is given an iron pillar that turns out to be the Ruyi Jingu Bang.
This dragon, who represents spring, the element of wood, and the East, is grouped with a tiger, a bird, and a turtle in the so-called "Four Symbols." In Japanese myth, it is the guardian of Kyoto.
dragons [or long; or lung; accept dragon boats]
Sun Wukong [prompt on the Monkey King]
Azure Dragon [or Qinglong; or Blue-green Dragon; or Seiryuu; accept Blue Dragon or Green Dragon]  &lt;Carson, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
This battle breaks out after the sight of an adder startles a knight into drawing his sword during a standoff. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical battle between the forces of Mordred and King Arthur, both of whom are mortally wounded.
On his deathbed, Arthur tasks Sir Bedivere with throwing this sword back into the lake from which it was first obtained. This sword was sheathed in a scabbard that healed most wounds.
Geoffrey of Monmouth introduced the idea that, rather than dying after Camlann, Arthur was instead taken to this island ruled by nine sisters. It is also where Excalibur was forged.
Battle of Camlann
Excalibur [accept Caliburn]
Avalon  &lt;Jose, RMP - World Mythology&gt;
The scholar Milman Parry found that these things often had varying numbers of syllables so that Homer or other poetic singers could easily fill out the meter of a line of poetry. For 10 points each
Name these descriptive phrases that are often repeated in epic poetry, examples of which include "swift-footed" to describe Achilles.
In English translations of the Homeric epics, the dawn goddess Eos is often given this two-word epithet, which is a translation of the Greek word rhododactylos ("roh-doh-DAHK-tueh-lohs").
Patronymics are another common category of Homeric epithet; Agamemnon, for example, is often referred to as the "son of" this character, a descendant of Tantalus.
(Homeric) epithets
rosy-fingered [accept rosy-forearmed; accept answers indicating fingers and roses in some order]
Atreus  &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Mythology&gt;
This object covers the last hair on Otter’s chin. For 10 points each:
Name this item which is eventually returned to the maidens who originally owned it, which was obtained by one hero by digging pits under a dragon, allowing him to escape its blood while it filled the pits.
This son of Sigmund gets the ring from Fafnir the dragon and gives it to his wife after riding through a wall of fire to reach her; he later is tricked by Gunnar’s mother into helping Gunnar marry his wife.
Sigurd’s wife is Brunhild, one of these women who choose warriors to be killed and brought to Valhalla.
the ring of the Nibelungen [accept Andvaranaut or Der Ring Des Nibelungen]
Sigurd [accept Siegfried]
Valkyrie &lt;DM&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the role of alcohol in mythology:
This Japanese drink is a symbol of Inari Okami, the kami of fertility and was used to bait the serpent Orochi.
The Mead of Poetry, created from honey and the blood of this wise person, grants the recipient the ability to answer any question.
In one Egyptian myth, beer is dyed with pomegranate juice or ochre to resemble blood and used to lull the lion goddess Sekhmet to sleep, transforming her into this goddess.
sake [do not accept “soju”]
Kvasir
Hathor &lt;DS&gt;
This deity accused Chalchiuhtlicue (“chal-chyoo-TLEE-kway”) of faking kindness, making her cry blood for the next 52 years, bringing an end to the fourth creation cycle. For 10 points each:
Name this deity who destroyed the first world in the form of a jaguar.
Tezcatlipoca was a god of this civilization, whose capital was Tenochtitlan (“te-noch-tee-TLAN”).
Tezcatlipoca lost one of these body parts when he used it as bait to defeat the sea monster Cipactli (“see-PACK-tlee”). In Norse mythology, the gods allowed Skadi one of themselves as a husband, but only allowed her to look at these body parts when choosing.
Tezcatlipoca (“tess-ka-tlee-PO-ka”)
Aztec
foot or feet &lt;RY&gt;
. For 10 points each, answer some questions about different types of fruit in mythology.
This fruit was believed to have sprung from the blood of Adonis. Also known as “the fruit of the dead,” Persephone had to stay in the Underworld for six months every year because she ate part of this fruit.
These fruits had the power to grant eternal life and were grown in the garden of the Queen Mother of the West. Every six thousand years, gods would host a feast dedicated to this fruit.
These fruits, grown in the garden of the Hesperides (“hess-PER-i-dees”), were used by Meleager (“mell-ee-AY-ger”) as a distraction to win a race against the Greek hero Atalanta.
pomegranate
peaches of immortality [prompt on peach]
golden apples [prompt on apples] &lt;DS&gt;
People in Arthurian times sure seemed to have a predisposition for romantic drama! For 10 points each:
This greatest companion of King Arthur was renowned as the best swordsman in the land, until his affair with Guinevere (“GWIN-uh-veer”) led to Mordred’s success in ending the kingdom.
This figure took care of Lancelot after the death of his father. This figure also gave Arthur the sword Excalibur.
The romance between Lancelot and Guinevere was most likely inspired by the adulterous affair between these two figures. These lovers later inspired and shared a name with a Wagner opera renowned for its dissonance.
Lancelot
Lady of the Lake [accept Nimue, Viviane, Niniane, Niviene, or Nineve]
Tristan and Iseult [accept Isolde in place of Iseult and Tristam in place of Tristan, also accept Tristan und Isolde] &lt;EL&gt;
This man defeated Sciron, who made travelers wash his feet and kicked them into the mouth of a giant turtle, on his journey to Athens. For 10 points each:
Name this mythological hero who also defeated bandits like Periphetes (“peh-RIFF-i-tees”) and Procrustes (“pro-CRUST-eez”).
With the help of the princess Ariadne (“ah-ree-AD-knee”), Theseus defeated this half-bull, half-man in the Labyrinth on Crete. This monster was the offspring of Pasiphae (“PASS-if-ay”), wife of King Minos, and a sacrificial cow.
Another bandit that Theseus defeated was Cercyon (“CARE-kyon”), who killed travelers after beating them at this activity.
Theseus
Minotaur
wrestling &lt;RY&gt;
This pair of deities were said to have created the world out of the primordial soup. For 10 points each:
Name these two Shinto sibling deities. After the death of one, the other traveled to the underworld to bring them back to life; they were chased out by the dead one’s corpse.
Izanagi and Izanami used this type of item, called Ama-no-nuhoko, to separate heaven and earth.
This semi-legendary descendant of Izanagi’s daughter Amaterasu captured Yamato Province, also known as Washu. He was traditionally the first emperor of Japan.
Izanagi and Izanami [both required, accept in any order]
spear
Emperor Jimmu &lt;BD&gt;
While the girl Helle (“HELL-ee”) was riding on the back of this mythological animal, escaping her murderous step-mother, she fell off, falling and drowning in what is now called the Hellespont. For 10 points each:
Name this animal whose pelt was sought by the Argonauts.
The ram was sired by this Greek god of the sea, who lost a competition with Athena when his spring turned out to have salt water.
While the Argonauts were sailing, they met this blind king of Thrace whose food was stolen by Harpies daily. The Argonauts Calais and Zetes helped this king out by chasing the harpies away.
the ram with the Golden Fleece [both parts required; accept sheep in place of ram; prompt on partial]
Poseidon [do not accept “Neptune”]
Phineus &lt;RY&gt;
This Hindu god is the husband of Lakshmi. For 10 points each:
This god is associated with preserving and protecting the world and has had nine avatars so far. This member of the Trimurti has symbols like the battle club and the conch shell.
These creatures were commanded by Brahma to only bite those who were truly evil or those destined to die prematurely and are frequently depicted shading the Buddha from the sun.
The devas and the asuras had to churn an ocean made of this liquid in order to obtain Amrita, the nectar of immortal life. Vishnu was said to recline on Shesha Naga with Lakshmi in an ocean made of this liquid.
Vishnu [accept Vasudeva, Narayana, Hari, or The Pervader]
naga [prompt on snake]
milk &lt;BKC&gt;
One of these figures is named Deino, or “dread.” For 10 points each:
These sisters are the only ones that know the locations of the Gorgons. These sisters share one eye and one tooth between them.
The Graeae had their eye stolen by this hero, who slew Medusa and rescued Andromeda from a sea monster.
Perseus stole some apples guarded by the daughters of this Titan. Another daughter of this Titan is the nymph Calypso, who kept Odysseus on her island of Ogygia for seven years.
Graeae (“GRY-ee”) [accept Grey Sisters or Deino, Eyno, and Pempherendo; prompt if not given all of their names]
Perseus
Atlas &lt;BKC/AJ&gt;
Name some twin brothers from mythology, for 10 points each:
These brothers are featured in the Popul Vuh, and are known for defeating Seven Macaw and winning a ballgame in the underworld Xibalba (“shee-BALL-bah”).
These brothers died when Artemis turned into a doe and jumped between them, causing the pair to throw their spears at each other. These brothers are also known for attempting to reach Mt. Olympus by stacking mountains.
In Arthurian mythology, these similarly named twins capture King Rience in order to try to win back King Arthur’s favor. They kill each other in single combat, not recognizing each other due to their different shields.
Maya Hero Twins [accept Hunahpu and Xbalanque (“shba-LAN-kay”), both parts required, accept in either order]
The Aloadae (“AL-lo-uh-day”) [accept Otis and Ephialtes (“eff-i-AL-tees”), both parts required, accept in either order]
Balin and Balan [both parts required, accept in either order] &lt;RY&gt;
Greek gods really liked to turn people into animals. For 10 points each:
Athena turned Arachne (“a-RACK-knee”) into one of these animals after she wove a tapestry insulting the gods. Arachne thus spent the rest of her life weaving not tapestries, but webs.
After some sailors tried to sell Dionysus into slavery, he turned them into these animals. Poseidon placed one of these animals into the sky as a constellation after it found Amphitrite (“AM-fi-trite”), Poseidon’s consort, for him.
After Daedalion’s (“day-DAH-lee-on’s”) daughter Chione (“key-OWN”) was killed by Artemis when she was described as being more beautiful than the goddess, Daedalion threw himself off of Mount Parnassus. However, Apollo took pity on him and turned him into this animal before he hit the ground.
spider
dolphins
hawk &lt;RY&gt;
Answer a few questions about Odin, for 10 points each:
Odin sacrificed this body part to Mimir in exchange for a drink from the Well of Urd. Odysseus injures one of these body parts belonging to Polyphemus (“pahl-lee-FEE-mus”).
While attempting to steal the Mead of Poetry from Suttungr (“SOOT-ung-er”), Odin threw one of these things into the air, causing 9 slaves to all kill each other while attempting to retrieve it.
Odin kept two of these animals, called Huginn (thought) and Muninn (mind), as pets. Their job was to travel around the nine realms and report what they saw back to Odin.
eye
whetstone [do not accept “hornfels”]
ravens [accept Corvus corax] &lt;MVP&gt;
Name some famous mythical witches, for 10 points each:
This woman rules over Avalon and has various trysts with Arthur, Merlin, and Lancelot. Her name is a reference to her fairy heritage.
This witch is featured in a story in which the hero, Vasilisa, finds herself trapped in this witch’s chicken-legged hut. This witch is able to fly using a mortar and pestle.
This witch, a daughter of Helios, is known for her knowledge of potions and herbs. Her most famous spell, the ability to turn men into beasts, can only be protected against if the target eats the herb moly.
Morgan le Fay [accept Morgana]
Baba Yaga
Circe &lt;DS&gt;
Name some important figures in the Norse creation myth. For 10 points each:
This figure is the ancestor of all giants. He was born from the venom of the river Élivágar and after his death, the world was fashioned from his body.
This king of the gods is one of the three individuals that killed Ymir. He sits on the throne Hlidskjalf from which he can see into all realms, despite only having one eye.
Two answers required. These are the other two figures who killed Ymir, the brothers of Odin. They gave wit, countenance, speech, hearing, sight, and touch to the first humans, Ask and Embla.
Ymir
Odin
Vili and Vé &lt;Orlov&gt;
Name some manipulative mythological creatures. For 10 points each:
These tricky beings are often described as being made of smokeless fire and while often wild and malevolent, were controlled and used by Solomon to build the First Temple in the Quran.
These tiny mischievous creatures spend most of their time mending shoes. If they are captured by a human, the sometimes grant three wishes in order to escape, usually relating to a pot of gold.
Another famous manipulator, Māui failed to complete his last trick because he was killed inside the vagina of Hine-nui-te-pō while in the form of this pinkish animal.
djinn or djinni or genies
leprechauns
worms &lt;Orlov&gt;
They’re good for more than just letting you know how you look. For 10 points each:
One of these reflective items, called Yata no Kagami, was placed in front of Amaterasu’s cave in hope of luring her outside. Since she was obsessed with her own beauty, it worked.
Izanagi created Amaterasu and Tsukuyomi out of two mirrors each made of this material.
In veneration of Tsukuyomi, during the holiday of Tsukimi, members of the aristocratic class board boats and use the water as a mirror in order to view this object.
mirror
white copper
moon &lt;Orlov&gt;
Two answers required. These two gods created the Earth by stirring the ocean with a spear. For 10 points each,
Name both of these creator gods in the Shinto faith. They are considered brother and sister, as well as husband and wife.
Izanagi saw Izanami for the last time in this place, where she was covered with maggots. Name this Shinto underworld.
Practitioners worship at Shinto shrines which usually contain these structures at or near the entrance. These gates are often red and black.
Izanagi and Izanami (either order acceptable)
Yomi or Yomi-no-kuni
torii &lt;Mathew&gt;
In one myth, this god chains Proteus in his sleep. For 10 points each:
Name this deity of bee-keeping and cheese-making as well as other common pastoral activities.
This figure fathered Aristaeus with the god Apollo. Apollo eventually took her to Libya, where she founded a namesake city.
Aristaeus later pursued this figure, another child of Apollo. As she ran away, she stepped on a viper and died instantly, causing her husband, Orpheus, to follow her into the Underworld.
Aristaeus or Aristaios
Cyrene or Kyrene
Eurydice &lt;Velagapudi&gt;
Answer some questions inspired by a certain ball game. For 10 points each:
After winning several ball games and sending their opponents to various houses for punishment, these gods finally lost a game and presumably killed their opponents in an oven. In reality, those opponents did not die and eventually tricked and killed these gods of the underworld.
Those opponents were these two figures often portrayed as a pair, such as day and night or sun and moon. They also defeated Seven Macaw.
The hero twins tricked the Lords of Xibalba to their deaths by offering to perform this miracle on them, which they used to survive the oven. They also used this action on a dog and Hunahpu used it on Xbalanque.
Lords of Xibalba or One Death and Seven Death
Mayan Hero Twins or Hunahpu and Xbalanque
resurrection &lt;Orlov&gt;
Name some myths involving fire. For 10 points each:
As a result of Prometheus doing this, Pandora was created. Name this action, which Grandmother Spider also completed in Cherokee myth.
As Coyote was running from the Fire Beings after stealing fire for man, they touched this part of his body, turning the tip of it white. Later, the Fire Beings caught Frog by this part of his body, which was torn off when Frog jumped away.
When Māui became curious about the origin of fire and extinguished all the fire in the world, Mahuika repeatedly gave him fire using this part of her body, first from her hands and then from her feet.
stealing fire or clear-knowledge equivalents
tails
fingernails or toenails &lt;Orlov&gt;
Answer some questions about events in the Aeneid. For 10 points each:
After the burning of Troy, Aeneas takes his father Anchises and this character, his son, with him. This character later founds the city of Alba Longa.
After organizing funeral games for Anchises in Sicily, Aeneas travels to this location, where he is ferried by Charon and sees Tartarus and Elysium.
This Etruscan king and friend of Turnus has his son Lausus killed by Aeneas. He is killed after returning to fight Aeneas in single combat.
Ascanius (or Iulus)
the underworld (do not accept or prompt on “Hell”)
Mezentius &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Name some figures from Indian mythology. For 10 points each:
This deity was given a magic mango after he won a race around the world by circling his parents, Shiva and Parvati, three times, claiming that they were the world.
Ganesha beat this figure in that competition, his brother and the Hindu god of war.
Ganesha had to use a trick to win the competition because his mount, the mouse, was nowhere near as fast as this animal, the mount of Kartikeya.
Ganesha [or Ganapati, or Vinayaka, or Binayak]
Kartikeya [or Murugan or Skanda or Kumura or Subramanya]
peacock &lt;Orlov&gt;
Name some myths involving fire. For 10 points each:
As a result of Prometheus doing this, Pandora was created. Name this action, which Grandmother Spider also completed in Cherokee myth.
As Coyote was running from the Fire Beings after stealing fire for man, they touched this part of his body, turning the tip of it white. Later, the Fire Beings caught Frog by this part of his body, which was torn off when Frog jumped away.
When Māui became curious about the origin of fire and extinguished all the fire in the world, Mahuika repeatedly gave him fire using this part of her body, first from her hands and then from her feet.
stealing fire or clear-knowledge equivalents
tails
fingernails or toenails &lt;Orlov&gt;
Answer some questions about events in the Aeneid. For 10 points each:
After the burning of Troy, Aeneas takes his father Anchises and this character, his son, with him. This character later founds the city of Alba Longa.
After organizing funeral games for Anchises in Sicily, Aeneas travels to this location, where he is ferried by Charon and sees Tartarus and Elysium.
This Etruscan king and friend of Turnus has his son Lausus killed by Aeneas. He is killed after returning to fight Aeneas in single combat.
Ascanius (or Iulus)
the underworld (do not accept or prompt on “Hell”)
Mezentius &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
Name some mythological figures who owned farms. For 10 points each:
Helios has a sacred group of these animals that Odysseus’s men weren’t supposed to touch. Ymir also has a pet one of these milk-producing creatures.
As part of Hercules’ 10th labor, he had to steal the cattle of this monster, who had three heads and three pairs of legs.
During the Cattle Raid of Cooley, this Ulster hero single handedly fights of the men of Connaught, as he is the only warrior that isn’t disabled by a curse.
cattle or cows
Geryon
Cú Chulainn or Setanta &lt;Orlov&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about chimeras:
The mate of Typhon, this half-woman and half-snake creature is known as the mother of all monsters. Her most famous offspring include Cerberus and the Nemean Lion.
This creature with the head of a human and the body of a lion asks Oedipus a famous riddle outside of Thebes. A statue of this creature also exists near the Great Pyramids of Giza.
Images of these creatures, which have the head of a human, the body of a bull or a lion, and the wings of a bird were often engraved in clay tablets and buried under the threshold of doors to protect homes in Assyrian culture. They are associated with the gods Papsukkal and Išum.
Echidna
Sphinx
Lamassu or Shebu &lt;Orlov&gt;
Answer some questions about conflicts involving Set. For 10 points each:
Set repeatedly gets into contests with this figure, which Set always loses. This falcon-headed figure is also the god of the sky.
In order to win the throne of Egypt from Set, Horus built a stone one of these objects, allowing him to win a race.
In another conflict, Set is tricked into eating lettuce covered in the semen of Horus as revenge for raping him. This results in Set becoming pregnant with this item, which Thoth sometimes wears on his head.
Horus
boats
Golden Disk &lt;Orlov&gt;
While many famous bridges go to heaven, some lead elsewhere. For 10 points each:
This burning rainbow bridge connects Asgard and Midgard. Watched over by Heimdallr, it will be broken when the gods march over it at Ragnarök.
This other Norse bridge spans the river Gjöll and must be crossed to reach Hel. It is typically described as covered and thatched with glittering gold and is protected by the giantess Módgud.
Gjallarbrú was famously crossed by Hermód after he was sent to retrieve this figure from the land of the dead after he was killed by a dart made of mistletoe, his only weakness.
Bifröst
Gjallarbrú
Baldr &lt;Orlov&gt;
Answer some questions about a lesser-known European myth system. For 10 points each:
This group venerates deities such as Chernobog, Baba-Yaga, and Svarog. Most of their myths come from folk tales and Pagan gods, both standing alone and being reconciled with the Christian religion as it came to Europe.
This figure is the head of the Slavic pantheon. He is often depicted as an eagle sitting atop the tallest branch of the sacred tree, where he watches over the entire world. He also killed Veles, the god of the underworld.
Perun is the god of this phenomenon, which is also his main weapon. Other famous deities such as Thor and Zeus are also gods of this.
Slavic
Perun
lightning bolts &lt;Orlov&gt;
For 10 points each, name these knights:
Despite his illegitimate birth, this figure was one of three knights to find the Holy Grail. Name this son of Lancelot, predicted to surpass his father.
After growing up with his foster brother, Sir Kay, this figure discovered his birthright by pulling a sword out of a stone. Name this knight, the son of Uther and a mythical king of Britain.
This knight was sent away on a boat with all the other children born on May Day. Name this knight who survived a shipwreck to betray King Arthur.
Galahad
King Arthur Pendragon
Mordred or Modred or Medrawt &lt;Velagapudi&gt;
The <em>Aeneid</em> describes how this god drowned Aeneas's trumpeter Misenus for having the impudence to challenge this god to a musical contest. For 10 points each:
Name this god often depicted carrying a conch shell and a trident. He lived in a golden palace with his mother and father, Amphitrite (am-fih-TRY-tee) and Poseidon.
A myth in which Triton's daughter Pallas was accidentally killed in a friendly mock duel by this goddess of wisdom is one of several possible explanations for this goddess having the epithet "Pallas."
The city of Tritaia was founded by Triton's grandson Melanippus. Another Melanippus was a defender of Thebes who was killed, then had his brain eaten, by this Aeolian (ee-OH-lee-an) hero, the father of Diomedes.
Triton
Athena [or Pallas Athena]
Tydeus &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Answer the following about the descendants of Nyx, the primordial goddess of night, for 10 points each.
Hesiod's (HEE-see-ud’s) Theogony notes that Aether (ee-ther) and Hemera (heh-MAIR-ah), the latter of whom is the personification of day, were the children of Nyx and this male personification of darkness.
Nyx also had many children alone, including this goddess of chaos who threw the Golden Apple of Discord into the party at the wedding of Peleus and Thetis.
Nyx was also the mother of these three figures, whose names were Clotho, Lachesis (lah-KEE-siss), and Atropos; they were responsible for spinning, measuring, and cutting the threads of mortals' lives.
Erebus
Eris
the Fates [or the Moirai] &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
King Pierus (pee-AIR-us) of Macedon named his daughters after these figures, who turned those daughters into magpies after Pierus challenged these figures to a match. For 10 points each:
Name these nine goddesses of the arts and sciences, including Calliope (kuh-LYE-oh-pee), Terpsichore (terp-SICK-uh-ree), and Urania.
The Muses are most commonly held to be the children of Zeus and this Titaness of memory.
Book 2 of the Iliad briefly relates the story of this Thracian singer, who challenged the Muses to a singing contest, lost, and had his faculties for singing, playing the lyre, and even seeing taken from him as punishment.
Muses [or Mousai]
Mnemosyne (nuh-MOSS-in-ee)
Thamyris &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
The creation of this figure is described in the 57th chapter of the <em>Skáldskaparmál</em> (SCALDS-ka-par-MAWL), where he is formed from the spittle of the gods. For 10 points each:
Name this mortal being who supposedly knew the answer to every question posed to him. His blood was later used to create the mead of poetry.
The creation of Kvasir occurred as a part of a truce to end the war between the Aesir and this other group of Norse divinities, who did not live in Asgard. Gods in this group include Njord (nyord) and Freya.
Two of these beings named Fjalar (FYAH-lar) and Galar murdered Kvasir to create the mead. Two more of them named Brokkr and Sindri crafted the ring Draupnir and the hammer Mjölnir (m’YOHL-neer).
Kvasir
Vanir
dwarfs [or dwarves; or dvergr] &lt;Jose, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
Answer the following about Greek oracles, for 10 points each:
Priestesses called "Pythia" served as oracles of Apollo in his temple at this location, which was also home to the omphalos stone that was thought to mark the center of the world.
The Argo partly made of oak timbers taken from the grove at this location, which was home to an oracle of Zeus that was likely the oldest Hellenistic oracle.
Greek settlers gave the name "Zeus Ammon" to the dedicatee of a temple at Siwa in what is now this country. The god Serapis was introduced in what is now this country to unify Greeks and its native inhabitants.
Delphi
Dodona
(ancient) Egypt [or Misr] &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Slavic pagans considered fulgurites, among other things, to be the remnants of the stone weapons of this god, whose rival was the dragon Veles. For 10 points each:
Give either the name of this supreme Slavic god or the name of his extremely similar Baltic equivalent, both of which controlled thunder and lightning.
Perun and Perkunas were very similar to this Norse thunder god, whose hammer Mjölnir (m’YOHL-neer) also resembled those gods' axes.
This kind of tree was sacred to Perun, Perkunas, and Thor, and its Latin name is cognate to Perun. A huge one near Hesse was worshipped by devotees of Thor and was legendarily cut down by St. Boniface.
Perun [or Perkunas; or Perkons; or Perkwunos]
Thor [or Donar]
oak tree [or Quercus] &lt;Carson, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
Answer the following about theoretical "triple goddesses," for 10 points each.
A papyrus containing magic spells calls Selene, the goddess of this object, "triple-faced." In Roman mythology, this object was guarded over by a goddess named Luna.
This nocturnal Greek goddess of magic, who is often found at crossroads, is often depicted as being three-faced.
This mythographer theorized that Persephone, Artemis, and Demeter were three aspects of the "triple goddess" Hecate in his book The White Goddess. His book Hercules, My Shipmate retells the voyage of the Argonauts.
the Moon [or Earth's Moon]
Hecate (HEH-kah-tee)
Robert Graves [or Robert (von) Ranke Graves] &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Answer the following about Eos (AY-ohss), the goddess of the dawn, for 10 points each:
Memnon and Emathion (ee-MAY-thee-on) are Eos's sons by this Trojan prince, who after many years turned into either an invalid or a cricket after Eos failed to ask that he be granted eternal youth to go along with his immortality.
Eos also kidnapped this Aeolian (ee-OH-lee-an) hero from his wife Procris; after returning him to her, their continuing suspicions of each other's fidelity eventually resulted in this man accidentally slaying Procris with a never-missing javelin.
Eos repeatedly kidnapped attractive men because an early dalliance with Ares caused this jealous goddess of love to curse her with insatiable desire.
Tithonus
Cephalus
Aphrodite &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Babi, a god who took the form of this animal, generally hung out by a lake of fire in the underworld eating entrails but also protecting the virility of the dead. For 10 points each:
Name this animal, also the form of Hapi, the patron of the canopic jar that contained the lungs.
Babi or another baboon sometimes replaces the monster Ammit in depictions of the weighing of the hearts of the dead against one of these objects belonging to Ma'at, the goddess of truth.
This scribe of the Egyptian gods was often depicted as having the head of either an ibis or a dog-faced baboon. He is the embodiment of wisdom.
baboons
a feather [accept the feather of Ma'at or the feather of truth or an ostrich feather]
Thoth [accept Djehuty] &lt;Jose, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
This creature is sometimes conflated with Fintan mac Bóchra, who traveled with Noah's granddaughter Cessair (kess-air) and survived the deluge by hiding in a cave in a form similar to this creature. For 10 points each:
Name this inhabitant of the Boyne River who ate sacred hazelnuts.
This leader of the Fianna and creator of the Giant's Causeway gained wisdom from the Salmon of Knowledge when he burned his thumb cooking it.
Much of the Fenian cycle is narrated by this son of Finn, who was reputed to be Ireland's greatest poet. James MacPherson attributed a number of fraudulent poems to a poet based on this character; the name of either is acceptable.
the Salmon of Knowledge [or bradán feasa; prompt on partial answers]
Finn McCool [or Fionn mac Cumhaill]
Oisín (uh-SHEEN) [or Ossian (AW-shin)] &lt;Grames, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
This son of Nauplius (NAW-plee-uss) the Wrecker is credited with the invention of dice and eleven of the consonants in the Greek alphabet. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek warrior who was framed as a traitor, then either stoned to death or drowned, in revenge for having previously foiled Odysseus's attempt to stay out of the Trojan War by pretending to be insane.
Odysseus's plan involved plowing his fields and sowing them with salt; to stop it, Palamedes placed this infant son of Odysseus in the way of the plow.
Odysseus was assisted in killing Palamedes by this other Greek warrior who, during his aristeia (ar-iss-TEE-ah) in Book V (five) of the Iliad, managed to wound both Ares and Aphrodite.
Palamedes (pal-ah-MEE-deez)
Telemachus
Diomedes &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
This character refuses the offer of a third wish after a scene in which an attempt to disrobe her is foiled when her <em>sari</em> becomes infinitely long. For 10 points each:
Name this princess of Panchala who was born out of a sacrificial fire.
Draupadi was simultaneously married to these five brothers, including Arjuna, Bhima, and Yudhisthira, who fought a war against their rivals the Kauravas.
The conflict between the Pandavas and Kauravas, which is called the Kurukshetra War, is chronicled in this ancient Hindu epic that is traditionally attributed to Vyasa.
Draupadi
Pandavas
Mahabharata &lt;Jose, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
According to Homer, these figures snatched the daughters of Pandareus away from him and delivered them to the Furies. For 10 points each:
Name these daughters of the ocean nymph Electra and Thaumas. These personifications of storm winds are often depicted as winged female monsters.
The Harpies terrorized this king of Thrace, who was blinded after he misused his prophetic powers. He was encountered and rescued by Jason and the Argonauts.
In the Aeneid, this Harpy prophesies (PROFF-uh-sighs) that Aeneas and his shipmates will arrive in Italy but not before they "eat their own tables," which comes true when they later eat the flat loaves of bread on which they had placed fruit.
harpies
Phineus
Celaeno (keh-LAY-no) &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
The sea-dwelling Qalupalik wears an <em>amautik</em> in order to perform this action, which along with causing hunters to become lost is one of the two major misdeeds attributed to the shapeshifting Ijiraq. For 10 points each:
Identify this specific action that, if performed by trolls or faeries, was often accompanied by the leaving of a changeling.
The Ijiraq and Qallupilluk are part of this people's mythology. Tales of this North American people also mention the creator god Anguta and his daughter, the sea goddess Sedna.
In another Inuit story, Sedna's father drugs her and marries her to a hunter, who is revealed to be a spirit of either a fulmar, a petrel, or one of these animals. Many Pacific Northwest cultures consider this animal to be both a creator and a trickster, and tell stories about how it changed colors.
kidnapping children [accept word forms of that or any answer that indicates stealing or taking a child or children]
Inuit [or Inuk]
raven [accept crow; prompt on bird] &lt;Grames, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
Some traditions hold that this woman was transformed into a dog while she was on a ship bound for Greece. For 10 points each:
Name this woman whose children included the seer Cassandra and the warrior Hector.
This king of Thrace was blinded by Hecuba after he killed Polydorus, another son of Hecuba. In Euripides's play Hecuba, this man's sons are also murdered by Hecuba's attendants.
All of the aforementioned children of Hecuba had this king of Troy as their father. The Iliad closes with the corpse of Hector being returned to this king.
Hecuba
Polymestor [or Polymnestor]
Priam &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Some accounts claim that this woman gave birth to Anna, who became the mother of Mordred. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who was married to Gorlois. Uther Pendragon had Merlin disguise himself as Gorlois so that he could sleep with this woman.
Igraine thus became the mother of this man, a knight who later pulled the sword from the stone and became king of Camelot.
Robert de Boron claims that Igraine and an unnamed duke of Tintagel were the parents of this enchantress, who is often depicted taking her brother or half-brother Arthur to Avalon.
Igraine [or Igerne or Eigyr]
King Arthur (Pendragon)
Morgan le Fay [or Morgaine; do not accept or prompt on "Morgause"] &lt;Jose, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
This son of Chrysaor (CRY-sore) and Callirhoe (kal-ih-ROH-ee) lived on the island of Erytheia, where he employed the herdsman Eurytion. For 10 points each:
Name this owner of the two-headed dog Orthrus.
Geryon's cattle were the target of the tenth labor assigned to this hero by Eurystheus (yur-ISS-thee-us).
Heracles traveled to Erytheia (air-EE-thee-ah) on a golden chariot given to him by this god, who admired Heracles's willingness to shoot an arrow at the sun when he became irritated at its heat while crossing the Libyan desert.
Geryon
Heracles [or Hercules]
Helios &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Name these figures from classical mythology who were sometimes depicted with more than one head, for 10 points each.
Hesiod (HEE-see-ud) and Pindar give this creature 50 and 100 heads, respectively, but most other sources describe this guard dog of Hades as having only three heads.
This Roman god of transitions, beginnings and endings, and doorways is usually depicted with either two heads or two faces, pointing in opposite directions.
Aristophanes's description of this serpentine dragon who guarded the island of the Hesperides credits it with 100 heads, though other sources differ.
Cerberus [or Kerberos]
Janus
Ladon &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
This figure is decapitated after pleading for mercy, and its decapitated head is taken to Nippur shortly afterwards. For 10 points each:
Name this inhabitant of the Cedar Forest, who is slain by a pair of heroes in an ancient epic.
Humbaba is killed by Enkidu and this Mesopotamian hero, a king of Uruk who is two-thirds human and one-third divine.
Gilgamesh and Enkidu offer Humbaba's heart to this god, who helped Gilgamesh earlier by sending the eight winds to blow into Humbaba's eyes. Gilgamesh later encounters the scorpion-men who guard this god's gates on Mount Mashu.
Humbaba [or Huwawa]
Gilgamesh
Shamash [or Utu] &lt;Jose, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
Apollo made all of this man's cows bear twin calves while serving as this man's herdsman. For 10 points each:
Name this man who married a daughter of Pelias after successfully yoking a lion and a boar to a chariot.
Admetus extracted a promise from the Fates to allow any volunteer to die in his place, but only this woman, his wife, volunteered. Heracles returned a favor to Admetus by rescuing this woman from the underworld.
Other stories suggest that this goddess, the wife of Hades and the queen of the underworld, simply returned Alcestis to the land of the living herself.
Admetus
Alcestis
Persephone [or Proserpine or Proserpina] &lt;Jose, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
This goddess turned some Lycian peasants into frogs after they prevented her from drinking by stirring up mud at the bottom of a pond. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who was prevented from giving birth anywhere on "terra firma," causing her to be hounded across the Earth until she finally found the floating island of Delos.
Some sources claim that Leto first gave birth to Artemis on the island of Ortygia, though all tend to agree that this brother of Artemis was born on Delos.
Leto and her sister Asteria were the children of the Titan Coeus (KEE-uss) and this Titaness, whose name means "shining" and who, like her niece Selene, was associated with the moon.
Leto [or Latona]
Apollo [accept but DO NOT REVEAL Phoebus Apollo]
Phoebe (FEE-bee) &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
In the <em>Lokasenna</em>, this goddess is said to be the most "man-crazed," since she is accused of sleeping with the killer of her unnamed brother. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess of youth, whose kidnapping by the giant Thiazi causes the gods of Asgard to grow old.
Idunn was said to possess these fruits, which are often interpreted as a fertility symbol. In a Greek myth, Heracles traveled to the garden of the Hesperides to retrieve some of them.
The Lokasenna and the Skaldskaparmal both describe this skaldic god of poetry as the husband of Idunn.
Idunn
golden apples
Bragi &lt;Jose, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
Answer the following about the mythological beast Typhon, for 10 points each.
Typhon fathered a large number of other monsters, including the Nemean Lion and the Hydra, with this cave-dwelling monster who was half-woman, half-serpent.
Typhon initially gained the upper hand in his battle against Zeus by stealing the thunderbolts and these other items from Zeus, thus disarming and immobilizing the god.
In Nonnus's Dionysiaca, Zeus retrieves his thunderbolts with the help of this brother of Europa, the mythical founder of Thebes, who disguises himself as a shepherd and plays the pipes to distract Typhon.
Echidna (ee-KID-nuh)
Zeus's sinews [or Zeus's tendons]
Cadmus &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
This god created giants, but was disappointed in their lack of civilization, so he turned them back into stones and drowned them in a 60-day flood before creating humans. For 10 points each:
Name this creator god who later disappeared after walking west across the Pacific Ocean with his sons Imahmana and Tocapo.
Viracocha is ordinarily depicted as the father of this sun god who was worshiped at Coricancha and at the Island of the Sun in Lake Titicaca. He was the brother of Pachamama and Mama Quilla (KEE-yah).
These Mesoamerican people worshipped a pantheon including Viracocha and Inti. The first ruler of their empire, Manco Capac, claimed to be the son of Inti.
Viracocha [or Wiracocha; or Wiraqucha; or Kon-Tiki]
Inti
Inca people [or Incans; or Incan Empire; or Tawantinsuyu] &lt;Grames, RMP - Other Myth&gt;
This figure is often the first one encountered by characters undertaking a <em>katabasis</em> in Greek or Roman mythology. For 10 points each:
Identify this figure, often positioned on or near the Acheron (AK-er-on), who generally expected an obol or a danake for his services.
Roman writers generally placed Charon on this underworld river, rather than the Acheron. Greek gods swore unbreakable oaths on this river or its namesake goddess.
Rather than paying a coin, Aeneas is allowed passage on Charon's ferry when this character shows Charon the Golden Bough.
Charon (KARE-on or SHARE-on) [do not accept "Chiron" (KYE-ron)]
Styx
the Cumaean Sibyl (koo-MAY-in SIB-ill) [or Deiphobe; prompt on Sibyl] &lt;Carson, RMP - Greco-Roman Myth&gt;
Namazu, a catfish from Japan who causes these events by thrashing around, once appeared in a woodcut telling Commodore Matthew Perry "Fix your rudder and sail away at once". For 10 points each:
Identify this natural phenomenon. Several of Poseidon's epithets, including "Enosichthon", referred to how he caused these events with his trident.
Namazu is an example of a kami, a god from this Japanese religion.
Namazu is usually kept trapped behind a stone by Kashima, the first god to participate in one of these events. A salt purification ceremony precedes these events, which are engaged in by people who might live in heya.
earthquakes
Shintoism
sumo wrestling bouts &lt;Bentley&gt;
Answer the following about Roman household deities, for 10 points each.
Namesake virgin priestesses guarded the sacred fire at the temple of this goddess, whose domain encompassed the home and the hearth. Her closest Greek equivalent was Hestia.
Members of a household were specifically required to honor the paterfamilias's instance of this soul-like element of the divine present in every person.
These domestic gods originated as the guardians of the pantry or storeroom, and were often worshiped in conjunction with Vesta and the similar Lares (LAH-reez).
Vesta
genius [or genii]
Di Penates (pen-AY-teez) &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about Amphitryon's <strong>(am-FIT-tree-on's)</strong> adventures after his exile from Tiryns <strong>(TEER-inz)</strong>, for 10 points each.
Amphitryon was purged of the blood guilt from having accidentally killed his uncle Electryon by this king of Thebes, who later ordered his niece Antigone's death after she disobeyed his order and buried her brother Polynices (poly-NYE-seez).
Creon then assigned Amphitryon to catch this legendarily uncatchable beast. Amphitryon solved the problem by sending Laelaps (LAY-laps), a dog who never failed to catch its prey, after this beast, upon which Zeus resolved the paradox by turning both animals to stone.
Amphitryon's wife Alcmene (alk-MEE-nee) gave birth to twin sons: one, Iphicles (IF-ih-kleez), was actually Amphitryon's, while the other was this hero, a child of Zeus who was later assigned twelve labors.
Creon
Teumessian fox (too-MESS-ee-an) [or Cadmean fox; accept vixen for "fox"; prompt on fox or vixen]
Heracles [or Hercules; accept Alcaeus or Alcides] &lt;Carson&gt;
A Breton knight named Bran dies of sorrow after being falsely told of the appearance of one of these specific things, which would mean his mother had failed to ransom him. For 10 points each:
Identify this specific type of item. The sight of another of them, which Theseus forgot to take down due to his distress at being forced to leave Ariadne (air-ee-ADD-nee) on Naxos, caused King Aegeus (EE-gee-us) to leap into the sea.
The white sail Theseus should have displayed would have indicated that he'd survived his encounter with this half-human son of Pasiphaë (pah-SIF-ah-ee), who was imprisoned in the Cretan labyrinth.
While the Minotaur was commonly depicted as a man with the head and tail of a bull, this river god was often depicted as a bull with the face of a man. He sought Deianira's (day-ah-NYE-rah's) hand in marriage until he was out-wrestled by Heracles.
a black sail [prompt on partial answer]
the Minotaur [accept Asterion]
Achelous (ah-kel-OH-us) &lt;Carson&gt;
Apollodorus states that Ascalaphus, the man who watched over the orchard of Hades, was a son of Gorgyra and the god of this river. For 10 points each:
Name this river of the Underworld, which represents "woe" or "pain".
Virgil states that Acheron was the largest river of the Underworld, and that this other river branched off of it. Unbreakable oaths were sworn using the water from this river, which was crossed by the ferryman Charon.
Alcaeus writes that, due to his cunning, this man "twice crossed Acheron at fate's command". He once trapped Thanatos in his own chains, making it so that men could not die despite growing old.
Acheron
Styx [accept Stygian oaths]
Sisyphus &lt;Jose&gt;
While fleeing the demands of his twin brother Aegyptus and his fifty sons, this man seeks protection from a king of Argos named either Pelasgus or Gelanor. For 10 points each:
Name this figure from Greek mythology who, with Polyxo, Pieria, and possibly others, fathered fifty daughters.
Eventually, Danaus capitulated to Aegyptus's demands, but instructed his daughters to perform this action on their wedding night. After the Trojan War, Clytemnestra had her lover Aegisthus assist her in performing this task, resulting in Agamemnon's death.
Only one of Danaus's daughters opted not to kill her husband, because that husband, Lynceus, had chosen to respect her virginity. Give either of the two names commonly assigned to that Danaid, one meaning "much-wooed" and one meaning "blameless".
Danaus [accept the Danaides]
killing their husbands [accept synonyms for "killing" like murdering or beheading and synonyms for "husbands" like grooms; accept killing Aegytpus's sons; accept mariticide, but DO NOT accept "matricide"]
Hypermnestra or Amymone &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about seals in mythology, for 10 points each.
Long before they kill each other at Ragnarok, this god and Loki fight each other in the forms of seals over possession of Brisingamen. This son of nine mothers guards the rainbow bridge Bifrost and sounds the Gjallarhorn.
This Inuit goddess drowns after her father Anguta chops her fingers off and she falls from his kayak; the fingers transform into seals, walruses, and whales. She is now the namesake of a trans-Neptunian object.
These magicians, who lived on Ceos and Rhodes, supposedly had the heads of dogs and fish-fins for hands, which produces a fairly seal-like effect. They both raised Poseidon and crafted his trident.
Heimdallr [accept Rig or Vindhler]
Sedna [or Sanna]
Telchines &lt;Carson&gt;
According to a Mapuche myth, these things are caused in rivers by sinuous fox-like creatures called Nguruvilu. For 10 points each:
Name these natural phenomena. One of them off the coast of Scotland is caused either by the hag Cailleach Bheur (CALL-yukh BURR) washing her tartan in the Gulf of Corryvreckan, or more likely by a tidal race.
According to the Tonga people, whirlpools can be caused by the river god Nyami Nyami, who has the body of one of these creatures. Australian Aborigines believe that one of these creatures created waterholes and riverbeds during the Dreamtime.
Greek myths differ on whether this serious hazard to sailors was a whirlpool or a sea monster, but in any case it was definitely located across a narrow channel from the cliff home to its equally hazardous counterpart.
whirlpools [accept maelstroms or vortexes or vortices]
serpents [or snakes; accept the Rainbow Serpent]
Charybdis &lt;Carson&gt;
After leaving this island, a goddess turned some Lycian peasants into frogs when they refused to let her drink from their well. For 10 points each:
Name this barren, rocky floating island that was the only place willing to provide itself as a site for Leto to give birth.
Some myths suggest that Leto gave birth to Artemis on the island of Ortygia, but most agree that this god of light and music, Artemis's twin brother, was born after an extended labor on Delos.
According to a Homeric Hymn, Leto's labor was delayed because Hera detained this goddess of childbirth and midwifery, one of Hera's own daughters, on her trip back from Hyperborea.
Delos
Apollo[or PhoebusApollo]
Eileithyia[or Ilithyia; or Eleuthia; or Elysia; or Eleutho] &lt;Carson&gt;
Some scenes of this type, including the one beginning in Book 20 of the <em>Iliad</em>, are preceded by recitations of an arming formula. For 10 points each:
Give this Greek literary term for a scene depicting a given warrior's finest moment in battle.
This warrior manages to clog the river Scamander with the bodies of the Trojan dead during his aristeia, which ends with his defeat of Hector.
Books 5 and 6 of the Iliad contain another extensive aristeia, in which this Greek warrior and son of Tydeus kills Pandaros, nearly kills Aeneas, and wounds both Aphrodite and Ares.
aristeia [or aristia]
Achilles [or Achilleus]
Diomedes [or Diomede] &lt;Carson&gt;
This god rode a boat variously known as the Atet, the Mesekhtet, or the Mandjet in a 24-hour trip that passed through Duat, the underworld. For 10 points each:
Name this sun god, who at various times in Egyptian history was merged with Horus and Amon or suppressed in favor of Aten.
During his passage through the underworld, Ra was assisted by various deities in fighting off the attacks of this chaotic deity, often depicted as a gigantic serpent.
In some versions of the myth of Ra's journey, he entered the underworld in the form of Atum, the setting sun, and exited it in the rising-sun form of this scarab-headed god, who rolled the sun across the sky the same way a scarab rolls dung balls.
Ra [or Re]
Apep [or Apophis]
Khepri [or Khepera; or Khepra] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about the Norse goddess Gefjon <strong>(GEFF-yun)</strong>, for 10 points each.
This king of Sweden offered an old woman as much land as four oxen could plow in a day; little did he know the woman was Gefjon in disguise, and the oxen plowed up the entire island of Zealand. That story of this king's "beguiling" opens, and titles, the first section of the Prose Edda.
The Heimskringla (hymes-KRING-la) says that Gefjon was sent on that task by this one-eyed Norse "Allfather", the leader of the Aesir.
The Heimskringla also details Gefjon's marriage to a version of this legendary Danish king, whose lineage and status as the great-grandfather of Hrothgar is discussed in the opening sections of Beowulf.
Gylfi (GILL-fee) [accept Gylfaginning]
Odin [accept Woden or Wotan]
Scyld the Scefing [or Skjoldr; accept Shield Sheafson] &lt;Carson&gt;
Pausanias describes the Arcadian hero Buphagus <strong>(byoo-FAY-gus)</strong> as the son of this figure and the delightfully-named Thornax. For 10 points each:
Name this Titan whose four children with his wife, an Oceanid named either Clymene (kly-MEE-nee) or Asia, included Epimetheus and Prometheus.
Another son of Iapetus was this Titan, who was punished for his role in the Titanomachy by being forced to stand at the western end of the Earth, holding up the sky on his shoulders.
Iapetus's fourth son, Menoetius, shares his name with a man employed in this profession by Hades. Boötes's (boh-OH-teez's) name refers to this profession, while Orthros's owner Eurytion was killed by Heracles while serving in this role for Geryon.
Iapetus [or Japetus]
Atlas
herdsman [or plowman, or ox-driver, accept descriptive answers like "he guarded the cattle"] &lt;Carson&gt;
This woman traded access to the city of Rome for what she thought would be a bunch of gold bracelets. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical Roman woman who was instead killed by the army of Titus Tatius and thrown from a cliff on the Capitoline hill that was later named for her.
Titus Tatius was a king of this Italian tribe. He declared war on Rome after Romulus led a mass abduction of the women of this tribe.
Tarpeia foolishly asked the Sabines not for the bracelets explicitly, but for "what you bear on your left arms"; as a result, the Sabines threw these items at Tarpeia, quickly crushing her to death. Twelve sacred ancilia, which were these objects, were guarded by the Salii (SAY-lee-eye) priests of Mars.
Tarpeia
Sabines [or Sabini]
shields [or bucklers] &lt;Carson&gt;
An early leader of these people, Otrera, is sometimes credited with founding the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus; later, Otrera's daughter Penthesilea fought for Troy in the Trojan War. For 10 points each:
Name this group of legendary female warriors headquartered on the Thermodon river at Themiscyra (theh-miss-KYE-rah).
Heracles may have taken Theseus with him on his quest to retrieve this magical item belonging to an Amazonian queen. Sources generally agree that some element of the quest ended up sparking a war between the Amazons and Athens.
Sources vary regarding whether Theseus abducted and later married Hippolyta or this other Amazon, Hippolyta's sister. Some stories claim that a third Amazon named Molpadia shot this woman to prevent her abduction by Theseus.
Amazons [accept Amazonians]
Hippolyta's girdle [or Hippolyta's belt]
Antiope (ann-TIE-oh-pee) &lt;Carson&gt;
The towns of Naxos and Besra were founded by these figures, who attempted to carry out a plot involving stacking Mount Pelion on Mount Ossa. For 10 points each:
Name these two figures who locked Ares in a jar for thirteen months during their insurrection against Zeus. Either their collective name or their individual names are acceptable.
Otus and Ephialtes imprisoned Ares after they tried to take over this mountain, the home of Zeus and the other gods. In both real life and mythology, it is the tallest mountain in Greece.
To kill the Aloadae, Artemis transformed herself into one of these animals and jumped between them, causing them to fire arrows at each other. Artemis was often accompanied by one of these animals, which was sacred to her.
Otus AND Ephialtes [accept names in either order; accept the Aloadae or the Aloads; prompt on giants]
Mount Olympus
deer [accept doe or stag or hind] &lt;Jose&gt;
Its final book begins with Numa Pompilius going to Crotona, where he hears a story about the trial of Myscelus and then learns about the principles of the universe from Pythagoras. For 10 points each:
Name this 15-book poem by Ovid that recounts hundreds of different myths. Its namesake theme is exemplified by such stories as Cadmus choosing to transform into a snake.
Later in the final book of the Metamorphoses, the Muses tell Ovid about a Roman embassy sent to borrow a statue of this god from his temple at Epidaurus. This son of Apollo and Coronis was the god of healing until he was struck down by Zeus for raising Hippolytus from the dead.
The final transformation described before the epilogue is this event, which involves Jupiter asking Venus to turn a certain figure's soul into a star.
the Metamorphoses
Asclepius [or Aesculapius]
the apotheosis of Julius Caesar [accept descriptive answers, like Julius Caesar turning into a god or being raised to the heavens; prompt on partial answers] &lt;Carson&gt;
The bones of a sea monster were made into a weapon of this type that caused the deaths of Ferdiad and Connla and, in some stories, had to be prepared in a river and used only with the feet. For 10 points each:
The mythical Gae Bulg (GYE BUL-agh) is what type of weapon, also exemplified by Odin's Gungnir?
The Gae Bulg belonged to this Celtic hero, a son of the god Lugh who defended Ulster from the armies of Medb (mayv) during the Cattle Raid of Cooley.
Cú Chulainn was feared for this battle frenzy, in which his body drastically contorts and he kills indiscriminately. Give either the Irish term or one of the translations used in the Thomas Kinsella or Ciaran Carson versions of the Tain (tyne).
spears [accept javelins; prompt on polearms]
Cú Chulainn (coo KHULL-in or coo HULL-in)
ríastrad [or riastarthae; or Lon lait; or warp spasm; or torque] &lt;Carson&gt;
A passage in the <em>Odyssey</em> describes how nine groups of five hundred men were each sacrificing nine bulls on the shores of this kingdom. For 10 points each:
Name this kingdom, commonly described as "sandy". Telemachus visits this kingdom to meet with its elderly king Nestor.
Nestor is the only Greek fighter in the Trojan War who was also part of this group, who were gathered by Jason to go questing for the Golden Fleece on a namesake boat.
Arctinus of Miletus composed a now-lost epic about the death of this king of Ethiopia, a son of Eos and Tithonus who killed Nestor's son Antilochus during the Trojan War.
Pylos [prompt on Gerena]
Argonauts [or Argonautai]
Memnon &lt;Bentley&gt;
The guru Shukracharya helped this character acquire a huge number of celestial and legendary weapons, including the Vaishnavastra and the Pashupatastra. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary warrior, a prince of Lanka who was given a new name after defeating and imprisoning the rider of Airavata.
Indrajit was the son of this ten-headed Rakshasa, a devotee of Shiva who serves as the major antagonist of the Ramayana, in which he kidnaps Rama's wife Sita.
In exchange for not killing Indra, Indrajit was given a boon by this four-faced god, who served as the "creator" in the Hindu Trimurti.
Indrajit [or Meghanada]
Ravana [or Ravanan]
Brahma [do not accept or prompt on "Brahman"] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about buried giants in mythology, for 10 points each.
The giant Norse god Buri was buried in a block of salty ice until he was gradually licked out by Audhumla, one of these creatures. Io was transformed into one of these animals, while Hathor was often depicted with the head of one.
Most stories of the Gigantomachy depict Athena facing off against this giant, who is eventually buried under Mount Etna on Sicily.
This figure recovers the three missing words he needs for a spell by waking the buried giant Antero Vipunen, then punching him in the stomach. After a newborn baby mocks this character for his sins, he sails away in a copper boat.
cows [prompt on cattle; do not accept or prompt on "bulls"]
Enceladus
Väinämöinen (vay-na-MOY-nen) &lt;Carson&gt;
This hero kills himself after he goes mad and slaughters a bunch of sheep, then realizes the grave nature of his actions. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek hero, a son of Telamon who used his huge shield to defend his half-brother Teucer, a noted archer.
Ajax went mad after Odysseus was awarded the armor of Achilles he desired; earlier, he wrestled with Odysseus at the funeral games of this hero, whose death caused Achilles to reenter the fighting during the Trojan War.
Prior to Patroclus's death, Ajax, Odysseus, and this other hero attempted to convince Achilles to fight. This man became king of the Dolopians after fleeing the court of his father Amyntor.
Ajax the Greater [or Telamonian Ajax or Ajax the Great; accept Aias for "Ajas"; do not accept or prompt on "Ajax the Lesser" or "Oilean Ajax"]
Patroclus
Phoenix &lt;Jose&gt;
This city arose when Pittheus combined the previously-existing cities of Hyperea and Anthea, and named the resulting combination after his late brother. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek city that is also where Aethra conceived a hero by sleeping with Aegeus and Poseidon on the same night.
Aegeus buried his sword and a pair of these items under a huge boulder in Troezen; when his son Theseus came of age, he retrieved them and went to Athens. In preparing to face Medusa, Perseus borrowed a pair of winged ones belonging to Hermes.
Girls in Troezen formed a cult around this son of Theseus, who died on the road between Athens and Troezen while fleeing the incestuous love of his stepmother, Phaedra.
Troezen ("treason")
sandals [or winged sandals; accept pedila or talaria; prompt on shoes or footwear]
Hippolytus &lt;Carson&gt;
The so-called "Two Ladies" consisted of this goddess and her Upper Egyptian counterpart Nekhbet, who joined her as part of the <em>uraeus</em> <strong>(yurr-EE-us)</strong> symbol after the unification of Egypt. For 10 points each:
Name this cobra-headed Egyptian goddess who became closely associated with the Eye of Ra. She also gave her name to an eye-shaped hieroglyphic symbol of protection more closely associated with a different god.
The wadjet symbol was considered to be the eye of this god, who fought for control of Egypt against his uncle Set after the death of his father, Osiris.
In some stories, Set gouges out Horus's left eye, after which it is replaced by either Hathor or this god of law, wisdom, and magic. He often appeared as either an ibis or a baboon.
Wadjet [or Wedjat]
Horus
Thoth [or Djehuti] &lt;Carson&gt;
A goddess who performed this action did it out of rage at the poor treatment she received from her father Daksha after showing up to Daksha's yajna uninvited. For 10 points each:
Identify this action. Tecciztecatl (teh-KEEZ-teh-COTT-ul) is initially too cowardly to do it, but Nanahuatzin's (na-na-WAHT-zeen's) courageous and dutiful performance of it spurs him to do it as well.
Those two Aztec gods thus become two suns, a situation that lasts until another god throws one of these animals in Tecciztecatl's face, turning him into the moon. In a Chinese myth, one of these animals lives on the moon with the goddess Chang'e (chong-UH).
Eventually, the sun that used to be Nanahuatzin was made to move across the sky by Ehecatl, the wind god aspect of this Aztec deity, who is commonly represented as a feathered serpent.
jumping into a fire [accept anything that indicates voluntarily entering a fire or sacrificial fire or funeral pyre; accept self-immolation; prompt on suicide or equivalents]
rabbit [or hare; or bunny; accept "jade" or "gold" appended to any of those answers]
Quetzalcoatl &lt;Carson&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the loves of Apollo.
Eros cursed Apollo to fall in love with this nymph, who continuously rebuffed him. Her father Peneus turned her into a laurel tree so that she could escape Apollo.
One of Apollo's youthful male lovers was this beautiful boy, who was killed by a discus that may have been redirected by Zephyrus. From his blood, the first of his namesake flowers bloomed.
After Apollo's lover Coronis slept with a man named Ischys, he immolated her, though not before he could pull his child from her womb. The child grew up to be this god of medicine and healing.
Daphne
Hyacinthus
Asclepius [or Aesculapius] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about beds in classical mythology, for 10 points each.
This villain captured travelers and strapped them to his iron bed, either stretching them out or chopping off parts until they fit exactly. Eventually, Theseus forced him to experience the bed himself.
After Helios informed him of his wife's adultery, this god of the forge created a bronze net and attached it to his bed, which he used to catch his wife Aphrodite and Ares in the act of lovemaking.
After Penelope orders this nurse to move her bed, Odysseus describes how the bed was carved from an olive tree to convince Penelope of his identity. Earlier, this woman recognized the disguised Odysseus from an old scar right above his knee.
Procrustes [or Prokoptas; or Damastes]
Hephaestus [or Vulcan]
Eurycleia &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about food in Japanese mythology, for 10 points each.
This indigenous religion of Japan worships many kami associated with food and agriculture, such as the harvest god Tano and Uke Mochi, who produces food from her own body.
This androgynous kami of rice, sake, and millet is sometimes said to be the husband or wife of Uke Mochi. Pure-white foxes called kitsune serve as his messengers.
Tsukuyomi, the brother of this female kami, killed Uke Mochi because he was so disgusted with her unsanitary food preparation. This goddess once hid inside a cave after her brother vandalized her rice fields, and had to be lured out with Uzume's dancing.
Shinto [or kami-no-michi]
Inari [or O-inari; or Inari Okami]
Amaterasu [or Amaterasu Omikami] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about notable 216-hour periods in Greek mythology, for 10 points each.
After Hephaestus was thrown off of Mount Olympus, he fell for nine days and nine nights before landing on this island. Philoctetes was left behind on this island during the Trojan War due to a festering wound.
Leto spent nine days and nights in labor on this floating island before the arrival of Eileithyia finally allowed her to give birth to Apollo and his sister.
Hesiod's Theogony states that it would take an anvil nine days and nights to fall from the earth and reach Tartarus, which was actually located below the underworld ruled by, and often named for, this Greek god.
Lemnos
Delos
Hades [or Pluto] &lt;Jose&gt;
This god, who rides a four-tusked elephant named Airavata had a hall in Svarga, where the righteous dead lived before they were reincarnated. For 10 points each:
Name this Vedic storm god who wielded a thunderbolt called the vajra.
Indra was the father of this hero of the Mahabharata, the third of the Pandava brothers. A conversation between this warrior and his charioteer Krishna makes up the Bhagavad Gita.
In the Mahabharata, Indra took the form of a bee to sting this king of Anga, because this man was the only warrior believed to be able to defeat Arjuna. Indra also tricks him into giving away the armor that made him invincible.
Indra
Arjuna [or Arjun]
Karna [or Vaikarthana] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about various mythological figures named Pallas, for 10 points each.
This Greek goddess of wisdom accidentally killed her friend Pallas as a youth, and thus took the name as an epithet to commemorate her.
Turnus's possession of one of these articles of clothing taken from a companion of Aeneas named Pallas inspires Aeneas to kill Turnus in a rage at the end of the Aeneid.
In some stories, Athena kills a being called Pallas during this conflict, during which Heracles shot an arrow at Alcyoneus. In another part of this conflict, Porphyrion is hit by a thunderbolt during an act of attempted rape.
Athena [or Athene; accept Pallas Athena]
a belt
the Gigantomachy [or Gigantomachia; accept answers involving a war with the Giants; do not accept or prompt on "war with the Titans" or "Titanomachy"] &lt;Jose&gt;
The winner of these events would receive a <em>kotinos</em>, a branch that was cut from an olive tree using golden scissors. For 10 points each:
Name these ancient Greek contests that, like the Pythian Games, were held every four years.
These kinds of events were the only ones in which women could participate at the Olympics. They often made use of a quadriga, and a woman named Cynisca was recorded as a winner of these events.
In the years before and after each Olympic Games, a games was held on the isthmus outside of this city. This city names a war which it fought against Sparta with Thebes, Athens, and Argos.
Olympic Games [accept Olympics]
horse race [or chariot race; or equestrian race]
Corinth &lt;Jose&gt;
According to one story, Hera became pregnant with this figure solely from eating wild lettuce. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek goddess of youth, known in Rome as Juventus. Her roles included helping Hera enter her chariot.
Hebe's primary role was as cupbearer to the gods, a position she held until she married Heracles. She was replaced in the role by this beautiful Trojan prince, who had been abducted by Zeus.
Hebe was also responsible for drawing the baths for this Greek god of war.
Hebe
Ganymede [or Ganymedes]
Ares &lt;Carson&gt;
Ascalaphus was buried underneath a rock after he informed Demeter that her daughter had consumed some seeds of this fruit. For 10 points each:
Name this fruit, whose consumption by Persephone forced her to stay in the underworld during the wintertime.
This winged goddess of victory was often depicted clutching a pomegranate.
A life-size statue of the cult figure Attis depicted him holding a pomegranate in one hand and a shepherd's crook in the other. Attis was the consort of this Phrygian-Greek mother goddess, who was adopted by the Romans as Magna Mater.
pomegranate [or Punica granatum]
Nike
Cybele [or Kybebe; or Kybelis] &lt;Jose&gt;
Name the following places from Arthurian mythology, for 10 points each.
King Arthur held his court at this castle, the site of the Round Table.
In some stories, Arthur was only mortally wounded at the Battle of Camlann. Rather than dying, he was taken by Morgan le Fay to this legendary island.
According to the Annales Cambriae, Uther Pendragon sleeps with Ygraine in this fortification, which is the birthplace of King Arthur. Gorlois wrongly believes it to be the safest castle in all of Britain.
Camelot
Avalon
Tintagel Castle &lt;Jose&gt;
In Greek myth, Deucalion and Pyrrha repopulated the world after one of these calamities by tossing stones over their shoulders. For 10 points each:
Name this type of mythological calamity. The Sumerian king Ziusudra and the Akkadian hero Atrahasis both survived them by building boats.
In the Atrahasis epic, this Sumerian god of freshwater, seawater, and crafts saves humanity by teaching Atrahasis how to survive the flood sent by Enlil. He was later known as Ea.
In the Epic of Gilgamesh, the title character encounters this man, who survived an ancient flood. Gilgamesh finds an herb of immortality after visiting this man.
floods [or deluges]
Enki
Utnapishtim [or Utanapishtim] &lt;Jose&gt;
This goddess gives her name to a type of geological "seaweed," which is actually an earthy colored glass formed during an eruption. For 10 points each:
Name this fire goddess who embodies the form and power of the Kilauea volcano. In one story, this goddess creates the ocean by pouring water from the creator goddess around her lands.
Pele is a goddess of the people who inhabit this chain of Polynesian islands. Pele created Koko Head and Koko Crater when she visited this chain's island of Oahu.
In Hawaii mythology, fire was guarded by heavenly examples of these animals. In Norse myth, Gullinkambi is one of these animals.
Pele
Hawai'i [or the Hawaiian Islands]
chickens [or hens or roosters] &lt;Jose&gt;
This woman gave her husband the dog Laelaps as a gift, but the dog was turned to stone when it tried to chase after the Teumessian Fox. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, who was accidentally killed by her husband Cephalus when she called out to "Aura" while enjoying the breeze.
Procris was a favorite of this goddess, who gave her a javelin that never missed its mark. This goddess of the hunt was the sister of Apollo.
Cephalus was once abducted by this jealous goddess of the dawn. This counterpart to the Roman goddess Aurora was also the lover of Tithonus.
Procris
Artemis [or Diana]
Eos &lt;Jose&gt;
This god's possessions include the <em>alipes</em>, or winged sandals, and the <em>petasus</em>, or winged cap. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek messenger god.
Hermes's other symbols include this winged staff that is entwined by a pair of serpents. It was conflated with the staff of Asclepius and thus has now become a symbol of the medical profession.
In the longer of the Homeric hymns to Hermes, Hermes invents the first lyre by stringing cowgut across an oxhide-covered one of these animal body parts.
Hermes [or Mercury]
caduceus [or caducei]
tortoise shell [or turtle shell] &lt;Jose&gt;
The field of Idavoll is found at the center of this realm, which is home to a giant hall that housed the honored dead named Valhalla. For 10 points each:
Name this realm from Norse mythology, the home of the Aesir. It is ruled by Odin.
Heimdall stood guard at this structure, which connected Asgard to Midgard, the realm of men. The jotunn used this structure to invade Asgard during Ragnarok.
Asgard also contains the hall Breidablik, the home of this pair of deities. They were the parents of Forseti, the god of justice.
Asgard
Bifrost [or Asbru or the rainbow bridge]
Baldr and Nanna [accept the answers in either order; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Jose&gt;
According to the <em>Georgics</em>, one of these women named Parthenope cast herself into the sea and drowned herself when her charms failed to entice Odysseus. For 10 points each:
Name these monsters who sat on heaps of bones and sang songs to lure sailors to their deaths.
Some sources state that this Muse, whose primary domain was dancing, was the mother of Parthenope and the rest of the sirens with the river god Achelous.
In the Argonautica, Jason's crew was protected from the Argonauts due to the efforts of this man. This man's skills had no effect on a group of Maenads who eventually tore him apart, after which his still-living head floated to Lesbos.
sirens [or Seirenes]
Terpischore
Orpheus &lt;Jose&gt;
The Rainbow Serpent followed trails in the sky called songlines during this time to create the world. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the era during which supernatural beings roamed the earth and formed the Earth's physical features.
The Dreamtime is a key feature of the creation myths of this island country's Aboriginal natives.
In other Oceanic legends, these animals, which dwell on land and in water, symbolized rainbows. In Egyptian mythology, Sobek was the god of these animals and was worshiped in a city named for them.
Dreamtime [or Dreaming]
Australia
crocodiles [do not accept "alligators"] &lt;Jose&gt;
A disguised Odin advises this creature's killer to dig a ditch so that this being's poisonous blood can be drained away. For 10 points each:
Name this son of the dwarf Hreidmar, who was turned into a hideous dragon after he was afflicted with the curse of Andvari.
Fafnir was slain by this hero, a son of Sigmund who gains the ability to understand the language of the birds after tasting Fafnir's blood.
The story of Sigurd slaying Fafnir appears in the "Poetic" one of these texts, which were compiled and written by Snorri Sturluson.
Fafnir [or Fraenir]
Sigurd [accept Siegfried]
Eddas [accept Poetic Edda] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about the island of Scheria <strong>(SKEER-ee-uh)</strong>, for 10 points each.
This Homeric hero, the husband of Penelope who spends decades returning to Ithaca, washes ashore on Scheria in one segment of the epic poem named for him.
This princess, the daughter of Alcinous, is washing her clothes when she discovers an unconscious Odysseus on the beaches of Scheria. Some sources state she marries Telemachus after Odysseus returns home.
Nausicaa's mother is this queen of Scheria. She advises Jason and Medea to marry in one myth, and she shares her name with a Greek word for "moral virtue."
Odysseus [or Ulysses]
Nausicaa
Arete &lt;Jose&gt;
In the <em>Aeneid</em>, a statue of this god adorns the palatial halls of King Latinus. For 10 points each:
Name this two-faced Roman god, who protected doorways and gateways. The first month of the year is named for this father of Canens, the "nymph of song."
Canens became infatuated with Picus and married him. However, Canens committed suicide by drowning herself after Picus was turned into this specific kind of bird and she was unable to find him.
Picus was turned into a woodpecker by this figure, who in another tradition lived on the isle of Aeaea. Hermes gave a hero the herb moly to combat this villain's magic.
Janus
woodpecker [prompt on Picidae]
Circe [or Kirke] &lt;Jose&gt;
During the Trojan War, this man kills Deiphobus and is about to kill his former wife, but loses his resolve to do so when he sees her naked body. For 10 points each:
Name this ruler of Sparta, who was succeeded by his son Megapenthes after he was brought to the Elysian Fields.
Menelaus was married to this woman, a daughter of Zeus and Leda whose abduction by Paris was the key cause for the Trojan War.
The Odyssey states that while Helen and Menelaus were returning to Sparta, a storm blew them off course and they met this shape-changing "Old Man of the Sea," who predicted a long life together for the couple.
Menelaus
Helen of Troy [or Helen of Sparta]
Proteus &lt;Jose&gt;
This man once extolled the power, wealth and happiness of the tyrant Dionysius, but he eventually realized that the rich and powerful were truly insecure. For 10 points each:
Name this mytho-historical person who was invited to a banquet by Dionysius, where he sat on a throne above which hung a sword suspended by a single hair.
Dionysius I ruled a city on this island. The monster Typhon was eventually trapped under Mount Etna on this island.
According to Ovid, this figure was living on Crete when he crushed Acis with a boulder out of jealousy over the nymph Galatea. In another appearance, this figure is blinded by a man who calls himself "nobody."
Damocles
Sicily [or Sicilia]
Polyphemus [prompt on the Cyclops] &lt;Jose&gt;
A hymn in the <em>Pyramid Texts</em> recounts this god's act of washing the entrails of a dead pharaoh. For 10 points each:
Name this god who weighed a dead person's heart to see if their soul would venture into the afterlife or be eaten by a monstrous demon named Ammit. He was depicted with the head of a jackal.
The hearts of the dead were weighed against a feather from this goddess of truth and justice.
Before mummification, the organs were stored in these ceremonial containers, which were guarded by Hapi, Duamutef, Imseti, and Qebehsenuef, four sons of Horus.
Anubis
Maat [or Ma'at]
canopic jars &lt;Jose&gt;
After a gadfly prevented this man from ascending to Mount Olympus, this man lived out his days as a crippled beggar wandering across the Plain of Aleion. For 10 points each:
Name this man who was falsely accused of making advances on the Tirynian queen Stheneboea, which prompted her husband King Proetus to try to have him killed. He later accomplished a number of feats with the help of Pegasus.
Proetus attempted to ensure Bellerophon's death by sending him to fight this fire-breathing monster with the heads of a goat and a lion, and a snake for a tail.
In the Iliad, this man recounts the story of Bellerophon to his opponent Diomedes, after which they stop fighting and swap armor. He shares his name with a sea god who gained immortality after eating a magic herb.
Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
the Chimera
Glaucus &lt;Jose&gt;
This goddess's name means "face painted with bells," and a stone found in the Templo Mayor depicts her with belt of snakes. For 10 points each:
Name this sorceress who killed her mother Coatlicue (KWOT-lee-kway) after she learned that she was impregnated with a ball of feathers. After she was dismembered and decapitated, her head became the moon.
Coyolxauhqui was slain by this god, who sprung fully formed from his mother Coatlicue. This god of war was the subject of annual sacrifices of human hearts, since he protected his people from the forces of darkness.
Huitzilopochtli was the war god of this Mesoamerican people. He served as the patron deity of their city of Tenochtitlan.
Coyolxauhqui (koh-yohl-SHAO-kee)
Huitzilopochtli
Aztecs [or Mexicas] &lt;Jose&gt;
This man angered the gods by feeding them a stew whose major ingredient was the chopped-up body of his son Pelops. For 10 points each:
Name this early mythical king, who was punished by being forced to stand in a pool of water such that food and drink remained eternally just out of reach.
Most of the gods detected the use of human meat; however, this goddess absent-mindedly ate Pelops's shoulder, as she was distracted by grieving for her recently-abducted daughter Persephone.
This Arcadian king foolishly tried to determine if Zeus was truly omniscient by feeding him a stew containing the body of his son Nyctimus. For his insolence, Zeus turned him into a wolf and killed his 50 other sons.
Tantalus
Demeter [or Ceres]
Lycaon &lt;Jose&gt;
The four "branches" of this collection of stories were compiled by Lady Charlotte Guest, who also translated them from Welsh into English. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of Welsh mythological stories, whose heroes include Pwyll, Lord of Dyved, and Bran the Blessed.
The only character to appear in all four branches of the Mabinogion is this son of Pwyll and Rhiannon, who is raised for a time by Teyrnon after he mysteriously disappears from Dyfed.
The third branch of the Mabinogion is named for this son of Llyr, who is able to negotiate the release of Pryderi and Rhiannon after capturing a fat mouse and ransoming it in exchange for them. He probably had the same origin as a similarly-named Irish sea god.
the Mabinogion [or Mabinogi]
Pryderi [or Pryderi fab Pwyll]
Manawydan fab Llyr [do not accept or prompt on "Manannan"] &lt;Jose&gt;
Answer the following about dogs in Greek mythology, for 10 points each. 
On his way to steal the cattle of Geryon, Heracles meets and kills the shepherd Eurytion and his dog Orthrus, who has this unusual feature.
After Cephalus succeeds in seducing his wife Procris while disguised as a different man, she runs away out of shame, but later returns and brings as a gift this hunting hound that never misses its prey.
When Laelaps begins chasing the Teumessian Fox, which can never be caught, Zeus resolves the paradox by performing this action, a power shared by the eyes of Medusa.
it is two-headed [or obvious equivalents]
Laelaps
they are turned into stone [or petrification; or word forms; or obvious equivalents]
Magni easily lifts the foot of this giant, who has a triangular heart, and this giant tosses a whetstone that gets lodged in his opponent's forehead. For 10 points each:
Name this giant who causes a ruckus in Valhalla after his horse, Gullfaxi, loses a race to Sleipnir. Thor then kills him.
This chief Norse god owns Sleipnir, and has one eye because he traded the other to attain wisdom.
The story of Hrungnir's fight with Thor is recounted in the Skaldskaparmal, which together with the Hattatal and Gylfaginning comprises this compendium of Norse myths by Snorri Sturluson.
Hrungnir
Odin [or Wotan; or Woden]
Prose Edda [or Younger Edda; prompt on Edda; prompt on Snorri's Edda]
The Muslim knight Feirefiz lacks the ability to see this object, which is housed in the castle Corbenic in Le Morte d'Arthur. For 10 points each:
Name this omnipresent cup or dish in Arthurian mythology. Joseph of Arimathea is credited with bringing this object, which may have held the wine from the Last Supper, or Christ's blood, to Britain.
This son of Pellinore, who is raised in a forest until the age of fifteen, achieves the Grail after a long quest in both an unfinished romance by Chretien de Troyes and a romance written in Middle High German by Wolfram von Eschenbach.
This youthful son of Lancelot and Elaine of Corbenic successfully sits on the Siege Perilous, an unused chair reserved for the person who will achieve the Grail quest. He then gains the ability to die whenever he chooses.
Holy Grail [or Holy Chalice]
Percival [or Parzival]
Sir Galahad [or Galeas; or Galath]
This monster has four eyes, six necks, twelve legs, a cat's tail, and four to six dog heads around its waist. For 10 points each:
Name this woman loved by the fish-like Glaucus. Circe, who loves Glaucus, transforms this woman into a monster in jealousy.
Scylla eats six crew-members of this hero during his ten-year journey back from Troy chronicled in a namesake epic by Homer.
In some accounts, Scylla was never a beautiful woman, but is spawned in her monster form by this couple, who also beget the Gorgons, the Graeae, and Echidna.
Scylla
Odysseus [or Ulysses]
Phorcys and Ceto [accept in either order; prompt on partial answer]
 The perpetrator of this action had just previously carried out the trick at Mekone, in which he tricked Zeus into choosing a pile of ox's bones covered in glistening fat. For 10 points each:
Name this act that is carried out with the help of a giant fennel-stalk. Its perpetrator is chained to a rock and has his liver picked out by an eagle or vulture every day for all eternity.
Zeus further punishes humanity from benefiting from Prometheus's theft by ordering Hephaestus to mold this first woman, who releases all the evils of humanity by opening a jar or box.
 According to Hesiod, several gods and goddesses participate in "creating" Pandora: Athena teaches her needlework, Hermes gives her the power of speech, and these goddesses of seasons and times present her with a garland crown.
Prometheus's theft of fire [or Prometheus stealing fire; or answers conveying that Prometheus is taking fire; accept the more technically correct Prometheus taking fire back; accept answers such as Prometheus giving fire to humans]
Pandora [or Anesidora]
Horae [or Hours; or Thallo, Auxo and Carpo in any order; or Eunomia, Dike, and Eirene in any order]
Answer the following about the Eight Immortals, the premiere group of mythological Taoist superheroes, for 10 points each.
The hermit alchemist Zhang Guoluo owns a mule with this unusual property, also possessed by Frey's ship Skidbladnir. The mule returns to its normal state after Zhang spits water at it. 
The leader of the Eight, Lu Dongbin, experiences one of these phenomena lasting eighteen years in the time that it takes for his yellow millet to cook. In Greek mythology, Morpheus is the god of these nocturnal phenomena.
An ill-tempered immortal named Li carries medicine in his gourd, and one of these objects made out of iron that never rusts or breaks, which gives him his nickname.
it can be folded up [or foldable; accept synonyms; accept fits in his pocket]
dreams
crutch [or tieguai; or Iron-Crutch Li; or Li Tieguai]
The servant Fimafeng is killed during this event, near whose end Thor angrily shows up and repeatedly threatens to silence an unruly attendee with his hammer. For 10 points each:
Identify this event in the Lokasenna during which Loki shows up uninvited and insults all of the gods present.
Among the participants at Aegir's feast is this god of poetry whose lengthy dialogue with Aegir makes up the Skaldskaparmal.
The Lokasenna concludes by explaining that Loki's son Narfi turns into one of these animals. A very large one named Fenrir attends the feast and will break free from its chains at Ragnarok.
Aegir's feast [or obvious equivalents]
Bragi
wolf
The perpetrator of this event forces the rakshasa Maricha to transform into a conspicuous golden deer as a distraction to isolate its target. For 10 points each:
Identify this event that occurs when its victim tries to help a beggar and steps out of a magic circle drawn in the ground by Lakshmana.
This seventh avatar of Vishnu rescues his wife Sita from Ravana's island fortress.
After Sita is rescued, she proves her chastity to Rama by miraculously remaining unharmed as she performs this action.
Ravana's abduction of Sita [or synonyms, like Sita's kidnapping]
Rama
trial by fire [or being burned alive; or jumping into fire; or agni pariksha; or obvious equivalents]
Icarius is instructed in the art of producing this substance, but is killed by some shepherds unfamiliar with its usage. For 10 points each:
Identify this substance, whose darkness is frequently invoked by Homer to describe the appearance of the sea.
This Greek god of wine is born out of Zeus's thigh when his mortal mother Semele dies from witnessing the full glory of Zeus.
These followers of Dionysus often go into an ecstatic frenzy, during which they rip Orpheus and the Theban king Pentheus to shreds.
wine
Dionysus [or Bacchus]
Maenads
This man is dragged to his death after the horses pulling his chariot witness a sea monster and begin running away in a terrorized frenzy. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Theseus, who is falsely accused of rape in the suicide note left by his stepmother Phaedra.
Theseus used one of the three wishes granted to him by this god of the ocean to curse Hippolytus.
In other accounts, Hippolytus survives his death and is resurrected as the demigod Virbius in Latium, where girls about to be married offered these objects to him as a sign of virginity. A Megaran princess named Scylla offers a purple one of these objects to King Minos.
Hippolytus [do not accept "Hippolyta"]
Poseidon
a lock of hair [or a lock of hair; or a piece of hair]
Ascalaphus is transformed into an owl for divulging a deed committed by this deity, whose friends are transformed into the Sirens. For 10 points each:
Name this youngest of the deities venerated by the Eleusinian Mysteries.
This Greek goddess of harvest allows the crops to wither away when she goes searching for her daughter Persephone, who has been abducted by Hades.
This disciple of Demeter is taught the gift of agriculture. Later, Demeter protects him from the murderous Lyncus, whom she transforms into a lynx.
Persephone [or Proserpina]
Demeter [or Ceres]
Triptolemus
Answer the following about the lovers of Apollo, for 10 points each.
Apollo's union with Coronis produces this master healer who is struck down by Zeus's thunderbolt for bringing Hippolytus back to life.
Apollo creates the hyacinth flower to memorialize the death of Hyacinth, who is jealously killed by Zephyrus in this manner. Perseus accidentally kills his own grandfather Acrisius in this fashion.
Either Helios or Apollo elopes with Leucothoe, who transforms into one of these objects after she is condemned to be buried alive by her angry father Orchamus. Aphrodite creates one of these objects from the blood of Adonis.
Asclepius
he is hit in the head by a discus
flowers [or frankincense; or anemone; or obvious equivalents; prompt on plants]
A goddess in this myth system repairs cracks in the heavens by inserting stones of five different colors into them. For 10 points each:
Identify this myth system, in which the creator goddess Nu'wa builds humanity from clay.
Nu'wa repairs the walls of heaven after Gong Gong, one of these creatures that resides in water, crashes into the pillar of heaven. This is the only fictitious creature in the zodiac, and is usually benevolent in Chinese myth, despite being malicious in European folklore.
Before Nuwa creates humanity, Pangu forms everything else in the universe after waiting 18,000 years to be born in this manner. In Greek mythology, Helen, Clytemnestra, Castor, and Pollux are born in this manner.
Chinese mythology [or China]
dragons [or serpents]
hatched from an egg [or born from an egg]
This hero dies when he is gored by a boar and refuses a drink of healing water three times. For 10 points each:
Name this warrior whose love-inducing mole on his forehead causes Cormac mac Airt's daughter Grainne (GRAN-yuh) to fall in love with him.
Diarmuid's affair with Grainne earns him the ire of this leader of the Fianna, whose adventures are recorded by his son Oisin (uh-SHEEN) in the Fenian Cycle of Irish mythology. This hero obtains wisdom from the Salmon of Knowledge.
The day of his fatal boar hunt, Diarmuid opts to take with him a yellow variety of this object, instead of the larger red one. The Gae Bulg is a poisonous variety of this weapon.
Diarmuid O'Dyna [or Diarmuid Ua Duibhne; or Diarmuid of the Love Spot]
Finn MacCool [or Fionn mac Cumhaill; or Deimne (DAY-nee)]
spears [or pike]
As a baby, this hero is drowned in a basket, then burnt on a pyre, then finally hung from a tree, but each time he magically survives. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who sleeps with a beggar girl that turns out to be his sister, massacres the tribe of Untamo, and then commits suicide by falling upon his own sword.
As a youth, Kullervo is brought up by Ilmarinen, who has this profession shared by the Greek god Hephaestus and the Roman god Vulcan.
Ilmarinen partners up with Lemminkainen and this other Finnish hero, the protagonist of the Kalevala, to recover the magical Sampo from Louhi, queen of Pohjola.
Kullervo
smiths [or blacksmiths; or forge gods; or obvious equivalents]
Vainamoinen
A son of Pelasgus is turned into this animal after he attempts to feed his son Nyctimus to Zeus. For 10 points each:
Name this animal which Zeus turns Lycaon into. The herdsman Faustulus discovers another of these animals nurturing her adopted children on the Palatine Hill.
The latter wolf suckles Remus and this man, the legendary founder of the city of Rome.
Romulus and Remus are abandoned in the Tiber River by this evil great-uncle of theirs, who usurps the throne from his brother Numitor, and forces Numitor's daughter Rhea Silvia to become a Vestal Virgin.
she-wolf [or wolves; or Canis lupus]
Romulus
Amulius
These creatures steal the food lain out for the blind prophet Phineus until they are chased away by the Boreads, Zetes and Calais. For 10 points each:
Name these monsters with the body of a bird and the head of a human.
After the harpies are dispersed, Phineus thanks the Argonauts by instructing Jason to use a dove to accomplish this task, which enables the Argonauts to arrive at Colchis safely.
The first stop on the Argonauts' journey is this island, whose foul-smelling women murder their husbands when they seek out more fragrant lovers from Thrace. Hephaestus lands on this island when he is thrown off of Olympus.
harpies [or harpy; or harpyia]
pass the Symplegades [or pass the Clashing Rocks; prompt on pass the rocks]
Lemnos [or Limnos]
Battus is turned into stone when he witnesses the theft of this type of property but fails to keep it secret. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of property whose theft is forgiven when it is exchanged for a lyre created out of a tortoise shell.
The theft of Apollo's cattle is perpetrated by this Greek deity that wears winged sandals to aid in his duty as a messenger god.
This son of Aeacus protects his own herd of cattle by praying for a wolf to turn into stone. At this man's wedding, Eris rolls a golden apple inscribed "to the fairest."
a herd of cattle [or Apollo's cattle; or obvious equivalents; prompt on animals or livestock]
Hermes [or Mercury]
Peleus
During the entreaty to Achilles, Phoenix recounts how this hero refused to go into battle against the Curetes until their siege had approached his bedroom. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek hero who dies when his mother burns a branch that she had kept hidden in a chest his entire life.
Meleager awarded the hide of the Calydonian Boar to this woman, a huntress who was the first to injure the beast. She lost a footrace to her eventual husband Hippomenes because he distracted her with three golden apples.
This river god tries to marry Meleager's sister Deianira by wrestling with Heracles, but he has his horn broken off and turned into the cornucopia.
Meleager
Atalanta
Achelous
This man is blinded by Oenopion after drunkenly assaulting his daughter Merope, though his vision is later restored by Helios. For 10 points each:
Name this hunter who is killed by a scorpion sent by Gaia when he boasts that he will kill all of the animals on Earth.
Another woman named Merope married this trickster, whose attempts to thwart death are punished when he is condemned to forever roll a large boulder up a hill.
Sisyphus's brother Salmoneus is put to death when he arrogantly imitates Zeus's thunderbolts by partaking in this activity. Myrtilus sabotages a competition featuring this activity to help Pelops win the hand of Hippodamia.
Orion
Sisyphus
he rides his chariot [or chariot races; or obvious equivalents; prompt on race]
This man is blinded by Oenopion after drunkenly assaulting his daughter Merope, though his vision is later restored by Helios. For 10 points each:
Name this hunter who is killed by a scorpion sent by Gaia when he boasts that he will kill all of the animals on Earth.
Another woman named Merope married this trickster, whose attempts to thwart death are punished when he is condemned to forever roll a large boulder up a hill.
Sisyphus's brother Salmoneus is put to death when he arrogantly imitates Zeus's thunderbolts by partaking in this activity. Myrtilus sabotages a competition featuring this activity to help Pelops win the hand of Hippodamia.
Orion
Sisyphus
he rides his chariot [or chariot races; or obvious equivalents; prompt on race]
The akhet season begins with this event, which coincides with the rise of Sopdet, or Sirius, and is triggered by the opening of two subterranean caverns by Khnum. For 10 points each:
Name this annual meteorological event that was instrumental to ancient Egyptian agriculture.
A big-breasted male god of this name symbolizes the flooding of the Nile. Another god of this name is a son of Horus who protects the lungs and personifies the canopic jars together with his brothers Imsety, Duamutef, and Qebehseneuf (KAY-bay-say-noo-ef).
The canopic jar Hapi has the head of a baboon, as does this other god, whose main cult center was at Hermopolis. This god won five days of the Egyptian calendar while gambling with the moon god Khonsu.
flooding of the Nile
Hapi
Thoth [or Djehuti]
This man is the mythological progenitor of the Molossian dynasty that ruled Epirus, from which Olympias, the mother of Alexander the Great, traced her descent. For 10 points each:
Identify this cruel warrior, born in Scyros in the court of Lycomedes, who coldly murders Priam and takes Andromache as a personal concubine.
Neoptolemus is a son of this very powerful Greek hero, who kills Hector and is killed by Paris. This leader of the Myrmidons begins fighting in earnest after the death of his beloved companion Patroclus.
In a play by Sophocles, Neoptolemus accompanies Odysseus on a journey to retrieve Philoctetes, whom the Greeks had abandoned because he had suffered this kind of injury and his wounds smelled bad. Eurydice is killed in this manner on her wedding night.
Neoptolemus [or Pyrrhus]
Achilles [or Achilleus]
snakebite [or being bitten by a snake; or being bitten by a viper]
Dogs, serpents, and scorpions often appear in artworks featuring this action, which was performed just above someone lying down in a pit covered with a perforated board by initiates into the cult of Magna Mater. For 10 points each:
Name this violent activity performed by a Phrygian cap-wearing Mithras.
This wild man shakes the haunches of the recently-slaughtered Bull of Heaven at Ishtar, but is cursed with a wasting illness for his impiety.
The Bull of Heaven and Enkidu both appear in an epic named for this Sumerian king. 
killing a bull [or sacrificing a bull; or tauroctony; or taurobolium; prompt on answers like animal sacrifice or killing an animal]
Enkidu
Gilgamesh [or Epic of GIlgamesh; or Bilgamesh; or Gilgames] 
Zeus decrees that this man should spend a third of the year each with Persephone and Aphrodite, then the remaining third with whomever he chooses. For 10 points each:
Name this Phoenician man renowned for his beauty. 
Adonis is conceived after this mother of his sleeps with Cinyras, her father. After discovering the incest, Cinryas chases this woman, who turns into a tree, out of which Adonis is born.
Adonis is killed by one of these animals after being warned not to go hunting. That animal may have been the "Erymanthian" one sent by Apollo to punish Aphrodite for blinding his son Erymanthus.
Adonis
Myrrha [or Smyrna]
boar [or pig]
This hero inserts a lead-tipped spear into the fire-breathing mouth of his greatest enemy, causing it to suffocate to death on the melting lead. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who slays the Chimera after using a golden bridle to tame the winged horse Pegasus.
After Bellerophon slays the Chimera, his hubris leads him to attempt this task that is foiled by a stinging gadfly sent by Zeus.
Pegasus is first discovered at one of these locations called the Pirene. Another is created when Pegasus kicks his hoof into the ground, and a third is cursed by Hermaphroditus to imbue men with femininity.
Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes]
he attempts to scale Mount Olympus [or he attempts to fly up Mount Olympus; or obvious equivalents]
springs [or fountains; or pools]
[missing]
Name this daughter of Tantalus who lost her many children to Apollo and Artemis.
Niobe's husband, Amphion, used a lyre to build the walls of this city. This city was founded by Cadmus.
Niobe lost all her children after she boasted that no one in her city should worship this goddess, since Niobe had ten more children than she did.
Niobe
Thebes
Leto [or Latona]
[missing]
In most versions, this Daoist god, who became head of the celestial bureaucracy after eons of navel-gazing, adjudicates the race to assign animals to zodiac signs.
This winged creature took 5th place in the race after stopping to help rabbit. It is the only member of the zodiac that doesn't actually exist.
This animal took the first spot in the 12-year cycle by riding on Ox and shoving Cat into the water at the last minute.
the Jade Emperor [or Yu Huang; or Yu Di]
dragons [or long]
the rat [or the mouse]
[missing]
Name this king of Thebes who was the first husband of Jocasta. He was murdered by his son while he was travelling on the way back from the Delphic oracle.
This unfortunate hero was the one who murdered his father Laius and married his own mother Jocasta. His other exploits include ridding Thebes of the sphinx.
This son of Oedipus became one of the Seven against Thebes after he and his brother could not share the throne peacefully. Creon ordered that this man be refused burial.
Laius
Oedipus
Polynices
[missing]
Name this son of Odin who borrowed Sleipnir for a ride to Hel.
Hermod went to Hel to try and retrieve this brother of his, a Norse god of light who was invulnerable to everything except for mistletoe.
Baldr's slayer Hodr is most distinctive for having this characteristic. Orion had this characteristic until Cedalion brought him to Helios.
Hermodr the Brave
Baldr
blindness [or equivalents, such as not being able to see]
[missing]
Name these female spirits from Greek myth who were generally connected to some natural body. Dryads were the spirits of trees, and Naiads were the spirits of springs.
Because this nymph was so beautiful, Apollo chased her until her father turned her into a laurel tree.
After this nymph bathed in a river, she was chased by Alpheus, but to protect her chastity, Artemis transformed her into a fountain.
nymphs
Daphne
Aretheusa
[missing]
Name this Vedic god who killed the dragon Vritra.
Indra's mount is Airavata, an animal of this type that flies. In a common Indian parable, a group of blind men grope at one of these animals and variously call it a water spout, a pillar, and a throne.
Indra ruled over this mobile heaven, which included a hall for dead warriors.
Indra
elephants
Svarga
[missing]
Name this Shinto sun goddess.
One of Amaterasu's gifts to Ninigi was Yata no Kagami, one of these objects. Tezcatlipoca's name comes from the Nahuatl word for these objects.
Amaterasu's story is part of the cycle of myths about this province, which also tells of how Ninigi took over the rule of this province from Okuninushi.
Amaterasu
mirrors [or smoking mirror]
Izumo province
This husband of Cigfa is named "Gwri of the Golden Hair" while being raised by Teyrnon. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Dyfed who dies in single combat with Gwydion during a war started by Gwydion's theft of his pigs.
Pryderi is the only character to appear in all four branches of the Mabinogion, a collection of myths from this component nation of the United Kingdom.
In the Mabinogion, this horse-riding mother of Pryderi is framed for the boy's murder when servants smear dog's blood over her mouth.
Pryderi
Wales
Rhiannon
One of this object's three roots extends to the well Hvergelmir.
Name this world tree from Norse mythology.
This dragon, which chews on the corpses that end up in Nastrond, gnaws at one of the roots of Yggdrasil.
One of these animals named Vedrfolnir sits in between the eyes of an eagle on top of Yggdrasil; the eagle exchanges insults with Nidhogg via the squirrel Ratatosk.
Yggdrasil
Nidhoggr
a hawk
Merlin creates this object for Uther Pendragon, and King Leodegrance later bestows it on Arthur. For 10 points each:
Name this piece of furniture around which Arthur's knights congregate.
Sir Galahad eventually takes this seat at the Round Table. It remains empty for many years because it would kill any knight other than Galahad.
This impetuous knight dies before the Round Table is founded. In his short lifetime he beheads the Lady of the Lake, gives the Fisher King the Dolorous Stroke, and slays his similarly-named brother.
the Round Table
the Siege Perilous
Sir Balin le Savage
Merlin creates this object for Uther Pendragon, and King Leodegrance later bestows it on Arthur. For 10 points each:
Name this piece of furniture around which Arthur's knights congregate.
Sir Galahad eventually takes this seat at the Round Table. It remains empty for many years because it would kill any knight other than Galahad.
This impetuous knight dies before the Round Table is founded. In his short lifetime he beheads the Lady of the Lake, gives the Fisher King the Dolorous Stroke, and slays his similarly-named brother.
the Round Table
the Siege Perilous
Sir Balin le Savage
One of these gods gave the first humans wit, while the other gave them speech and sight. For 10 points each:
Name these two sons of Borr who help their brother kill a primordial frost giant.
Vili and Ve helped their brother Odin kill this frost giant from Norse mythology.
Loki accused this wife of Odin of carrying on an affair with Odin's brothers.
Vili and Ve [prompt if only one is given; accept in either order]
Ymir
Frigga
Graves states that she was the most terrible of a certain triad and personified Crone, the autumnal aspect of a triple goddess. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess, who cut the thread spun out by her sister Clotho, and measured by her sister Lachesis.
Atropos, Clotho and Lachesis are the three women who make up this mythological triad, who ruled over destiny.
This other goddess of fate was a tutelary deity that Greeks used to personify luck. She was sometimes syncretized with Nemesis, and her Roman counterpart was Fortuna.
Atropos
Fates [or Parcae or Moirae]
Tyche
One story states that this Trojan warrior was killed after he himself slew Antilochus; other stories state Achilles killed him as part of his general rampage. For 10 points each:
Name this Ethiopian king who was killed during the Trojan war.
Memnon was a child of this "rosy-fingered" goddess. She was the Greek version of Aurora and presided over the dawn.
One of the children of Eos and Procris was a figure of this name that personified the morning and evening stars. This was the name of a child of Apollo who foolishly mishandled his father's chariot.
Memnon
Eos
Phaethon
Answer the following about pigs in Greek mythology, for 10 points each.
This sorceress turned Odysseus' men into pigs, but Odysseus overcame her with the help of moly from Hermes.
This man killed the Calydonian Boar with his spear after Atalanta drew the first blood.
An old woman named Phaea raised this monster, which terrorized the land between Megara and Corinth until Theseus slew it.
Circe
Meleager
the Crommyonian Sow
One creature who was pretty much identical to this other creature was named Empusa. For 10 points each:
Name this Libyan queen who became a devourer of children after she was transformed into a hideous serpent-demoness.
Lamia was transformed into a hideous demon and cursed to eat children by this goddess, because Lamia was having an affair with her husband Zeus.
Zeus gave Lamia the power to detach these body parts and reattach them. The Graeae were a group of sisters who shared one of these body parts and one tooth as well.
Lamia
Hera
eyes [accept eyeballs]
One creature who was pretty much identical to this other creature was named Empusa. For 10 points each:
Name this Libyan queen who became a devourer of children after she was transformed into a hideous serpent-demoness.
Lamia was transformed into a hideous demon and cursed to eat children by this goddess, because Lamia was having an affair with her husband Zeus.
Zeus gave Lamia the power to detach these body parts and reattach them. The Graeae were a group of sisters who shared one of these body parts and one tooth as well.
Lamia
Hera
eyes [accept eyeballs]
Answer the following about creation myths in Egypt, for 10 points each.
In the Heliopolitan creation myth, this god creates himself sitting on a giant mound, then spits out Shu and Tefnut.
In a myth from Hermopolis, this wise ibis god lays the cosmic egg out of which Ra hatches.
This city's Shabaka Stone recounts how a craftsman god, the husband of Sekhmet, created the world out of his thoughts.
Atum [or Atem; do not accept or prompt on "Aten"]
Thoth
Memphis
Styx was the first to side with Zeus and the others during this 10-year long conflict. For 10 points each:
Name this war which pitted Hades, Poseidon, and their brethren against another group of immortal deities, which included Hyperion.
This leader of the Titans had dethroned Uranus. He swallowed up the siblings of Zeus because he wished to avoid his downfall, which was foretold in a prophecy.
This titaness was the wife of Oceanus. She was sometimes conflated with Thalassa, another personification of the sea.
Titanomachy [accept the war between the titans and gods, or other such equivalents]
Kronos
Tethys
This husband of Fand owns an invisibility cloak and a ship he can direct telepathically. For 10 points each:
Name this Celtic god of the seas.
Manannan used a magic potion to make this man forget he was Fand's lover. This spear-wielding berserker was known as Setanta until he killed a guard dog.
Manannan fostered this woman's children. In the Ulster Cycle, she initiates a tragedy by leaving Conchobar mac Nessa for Naoise.
Manannan mac Lir
Cuchulainn (coo-HOO-lin)
Deirdre of the Sorrows
They include Clio, whose domain is history, and Polyhymnia, whose domain is sacred music. For 10 points each:
Name these nine goddesses who personified the arts.
Although some sources state it is Mt. Parnassus, the muses made this mountain their home. The Aganippe and Hippocrene fountains found at this mountain contained poetically-inspirational water.
This creature made the Hippocrene fountain after he kicked the dirt at Mount Helicon. In another story, this creature is stung by a gadfly.
the Muses
Mount Helicon
Pegasus
A crab was sent to distract Heracles during the slaying of this creature. For 10 points each:
Name this multi-headed monster in Lerna. Every time one of its heads would be chopped off, two more would grow in its place.
This other multi-headed monster from Greek myth was a two-headed dog. that was the son of Echidna. This son of Echidna was killed by Heracles when he was stealing the cattle of the island of Erytheia.
Those cattle belonged to this three-bodied giant whom Heracles slew.
Hydra
Orthus [or Orthrus]
Geryon
One of Psyche's tasks was to retrieve a handful of water from this river. For 10 points each:
Name this river of the underworld on which the gods swore oaths.
This other river of the underworld was a river of fire. One story states that she was a lover of Styx who was burned to death, but they were happily reunited by Hades.
Another river of the underworld, Lethe, personified this concept. When souls came to Hades for the first time, they drank from it.
Styx
Phlegethon
forgetfulness [accept other equivalents such as loss of memory or oblivion]
This woman craftily removed the nail in the foot of Talos, thereby disabling it.
Name this sorceress who abandoned her sister Chalciope and helped Jason retrieve the golden fleece.
Medea was a princess of this kingdom, which was ruled by Aeetes. While fleeing from this kingdom Medea chopped her brother Absyrtus into bits.
When Medea arrived in Iolcus, she was able to kill this king, who tasked Jason with retrieving the golden fleece. She convinced him that she had a way of making him young again.
Medea
Colchis
Pelias
This son of Apollo was a bard who composed stories about the exploits of Dionysus using Pelasgian letters.
Name this music teacher who was brutally murdered by one of his students.
Linus was murdered by this man, to whom he taught the art of playing the lyre. This demigod was the son of Alcmene and Zeus.
Another instance of music-playing leading to violence occurred when this satyr challenged Apollo to a music contest and lost. He was flayed alive for his efforts.
Linus
Heracles [accept Hercules]
Marsyas
This son of Apollo was a bard who composed stories about the exploits of Dionysus using Pelasgian letters.
Name this music teacher who was brutally murdered by one of his students.
Linus was murdered by this man, to whom he taught the art of playing the lyre. This demigod was the son of Alcmene and Zeus.
Another instance of music-playing leading to violence occurred when this satyr challenged Apollo to a music contest and lost. He was flayed alive for his efforts.
Linus
Heracles [accept Hercules]
Marsyas
A legend has it that his barber told the grass that this king has "asses ears," which is why the grass still says whispers this king has asses ears to this very day. 
Name this king who was cursed with the golden touch.
Midas was given the golden touch as a gift after he took hospitable care of this satyr, who passed out in his garden.
After the golden touch became problematic, Midas went to one of these entities called Pactolus to rid himself of it. Another of them was Enipeus, whom Tyro loved.
Midas
Silenus
river [or river gods]
Answer these questions about global flood myths, for 10 points each. 
In Aztec cosmology, the third of these objects was extinguished when a jade-skirted water goddess released a great flood. We live under the fifth of these celestial bodies. 
This other people believed that a great flood was sent by Viracocha to cleanse the world, though their founding hero Manco Capac survived. 
 In this myth system, the mysterious Holy People help humanity escape a flooded world beneath the earth to reach the current world, and two non-Mayan hero twins use bows armed with lightning to turn monsters to stone. 
 suns [accept third sun or fifth sun]
the Inca 
 Navajo mythology [or DinÃ©]
The curse against this house was laid by Myrtilus after he was murdered by Pelops. For 10 points each: 
Name this cursed house in Greek myth, named for the father of Agamemnon and Menelaus. 
Atreus was the grandson of this figure, who attempted to feed his son Pelops to the gods. He was punished in the afterlife by never being able to quench his thirst or hunger. 
Atreus had a power struggle with this brother of his, who was forced to eat the flesh of his children and fathered Aegisthus with his daughter Pelopia. This man lost his kingdom when Zeus caused the Sun to move back in the sky. 
House of Atreus
Tantalus 
Thyestes
One of these figures with two pupils in each eye was born after the commoner Gu Sou dreamed of a phoenix. For 10 points each
Identify these legendary men such as Shun, who lived after the Three Sovereigns, or Three August Ones. The so-called Yellow one was victorious at the Battle of Zhuolu. 
An emperor named for this green gemstone rules heaven in many Chinese myths. 
This domestic god carries yearly reports on people's character to the Jade Emperor. Paper effigies of this god often hang above a fireplace, and he is sometimes given candy as a bribe. 
legendary Chinese emperors [or the Five Emperors; or wudi] 
 jadeite [or Jade Emperor; or Yudi] 
Kitchen God [or Stove God; or Zao Jun; or Zao Shen]
These creatures include Podarge, who bore the horses used by Achilles, and they tormented king Phineus by snatching away his food. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures who also bothered Aeneas's crew at the Strophades. When the Argonauts met these half-bird, half-woman creatures, Boreas's children drove them off. 
This messenger of Hera and goddess of the rainbow forbid the Argonauts from killing the Harpies. 
Celaeno the harpy prophesies that this desperate act will be done by Aeneas's crew when they reach the site of their new home, marking an end to their hungry wanderings. 
harpies [or harpy; or harpyia]
Iris 
they will eat their own tables [or eat their own plates; or use the last of their bread for plates; accept any answer which involves eating the surface on which one places one's food; prompt on "eating"; prompt on "eating bread"]
This deity stole fire from the fingernails of Mahu-ika and lassoed the sun. For 10 points each: 
Name this Polynesian folk hero who lifted many islands, including one named for him, out of the sea with a fishhook.
This other Hawaiian goddess controls volcanic activity and lives in a fire pit at Kilauea. 
In some versions, Maui used the jawbone of this relative of his as his fishhook. Anticleia had this relation to Telemachus.
Maui-tikitiki [or Ti'iti'i] 
Pele 
his grandmother
Name these females involved in the Trojan War, for 10 points each. 
Penthisilea led this tribe of warrior women into battle for the Trojan side. They cut off one breast so as to be better archers.
Two similarly-named women start the plot of the Iliad. One is a priest's daughter whom Agamemnon returns to Troy during a plague outbreak; the other is taken by Agamemnon from Achilles. Name either
This sole daughter of Helen and Menelaus was promised to Neoptolemus during the war, overriding her previous betrothal to Orestes. 
the Amazons 
Chryseis OR Briseis [accept answers featuring both names in either order; accept Astynome in place of Chryseis; accept Hippodameia in place of Briseis]
Hermione
Answer the following about snakes in Greek mythology, for 10 points each. 
This musician's wife was killed by a snake bite. When he descended to the Underworld, he lost her forever by looking back. 
This wife of Cadmus was transformed into a snake in her old age. Hephaestus gave her a namesake cursed necklace at her wedding. 
Plutarch says this man was fathered when Zeus slept with Olympias in the form of a snake. This pagan member of the Nine Worthies gained favor by freeing a bound ox-cart in Phrygia, and his mortal father used the sarissa lance.
Orpheus 
Harmonia 
 Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon]
This man fell in love with Scylla, but when he went to Circe to ask for help, the witch fell in love with him. For 10 points each: 
Name this man who was transformed into a sea god when he consumed a magical plant growing in the water. 
This mortal sister of Androgeus also had a brother named Glaucus. This princess of Crete stayed on the isle of Naxos, where she eventually became Dionysus' wife. 
Ariadne had been left on Naxos by this Athenian hero, who used her golden thread to trace his way back out of the Labyrinth. 
Glaucus 
Ariadne 
Theseus
 Homer claims that these goddesses guard the gate to Olympus, and their number varies between three and twelve. For 10 points each: 
Name these Greek goddesses of time and the seasons. 
The Horae were the daughters of Zeus and this Titaness who presided over divine justice. 
 Themis may also have been the mother of these three goddesses named Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, who spun, measured, and cut the thread of life for mortals. 
 the Horae 
Themis 
the Fates [or the Moirai]
Devotees of this god were centered at Arcadia, and he used the reed pipe to create a new wind instrument after his failed pursuit of the nymph Syrinx. For 10 points each: 
Name this demi-god of shepherds who was usually depicted as a half-goat. 
In one story, this nymph rejected Pan's love, so Pan's shepherds to tear her body apart. Zeus once used this nymph to distract Hera with long stories; after that, one of her unrequited lovers turned into a flower. 
These body parts of Zeus were recovered by Aegipan, who is either Pan's father or Pan himself, during the battle with Typhon. Typhon had torn them out during their first encounter. 
Pan [or Faunus] 
Echo 
Zeus' sinews [or Zeus' tendons]
Answer these questions about the mythical Chinese woman Chang'e, who floated up to the moon one day and is still there, for 10 points each. 
This animal accompanies Chang'e on the moon. Many Asian countries say the patterns on the moon's surface resemble this animal rather than a man. 
The rabbit pounds out an elixir granting this property using a mortar and pestle. Chang'e floated to the moon after eating one of Xi Wangmu's pills granting this property, which all Olympian gods had. 
This man, the husband of Chang'e, failed to stop her from floating up to the moon. This archer had previously shot down nine of the ten suns that were scorching the earth. 
a rabbit [or hare; or bunny rabbit]
 immortality [or eternal life; or deathlessness; accept any common-sense answer noting that the being in question will never die] 
 Hou Yi [or Shen Yi]
Like Dido, this man was originally a noble in the Phoenician city of Tyre; he set out to find his abducted sister Europa. For 10 points each: 
Name this man who introduced the alphabet to Greece. He founded a city on a spot where he planted dragon's teeth in the ground.
Cadmus founded this city. A group of "Seven Against" this city attacked it after its king Oedipus exiled himself. 
Two children of Antiope constructed the walls of Thebes with their burly arms and an enchanted lyre while ruling it in a joint kingship. Name either. 
Cadmus [or Kadmos]
Thebes [or Thebai]
Amphion OR Zethus [accept Amphion and Zethus; or Zethus and Amphion]
This fanged deity was often depicted holding a serpent and a jade tomahawk, and he reserved a pleasant afterlife for victims of drowning or water-borne disease. For 10 points each: 
Name this storm god. He and Huitzilopochtli each had a shrine at the Templo Mayor.
Tlaloc was a god of these people, who sacrificed children to him. This people's other gods include the feathered serpent Quetzalcoatl.
Tlaloc's chief shrine was located at one of these places far outside Tenochtitlan. One of these named Meru is central to Hindu cosmology. 
Tlaloc 
Aztecs [or Nahuatl] 
mountains [accept Mount Tlaloc; accept Mount Meru]
 This god wrote a namesake book supposedly buried near Memphis that would give the reader the spells needed to control the gods. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian god with the long beak of an ibis. He took up residence on the moon and served as a divine scribe. 
Thoth was sometimes described as the son of this bird-headed god, who drove the sun barge across the sky each day. He was sometimes merged with Amun or Atum. 
Thoth was central to a pantheon of this many gods, worshipped at Hermopolis in contrast to the Ennead of Heliopolis. A group of this many Chinese demigods is led by the sword-wielding Lu Dongbin
 Thoth [or Djehuty; be lenient with vowels] 
Ra [or Re] 
 eight [or Ogdoad; or Eight Immortals; or Baxian]
One god of this astronomical object, the consort of Ningal, was often depicted as an elderly man with a blue beard. For 10 points each:
Name this celestial body ruled by the Sumerian god Sin. Selene was a Greek goddess of this object, which was also linked to Artemis.
This chief god of Babylon helped get Sin's radiance back after a conspiracy involving Adad and Ishtar stripped it away. This son of Ea used the wind to defeat Tiamat.
This Babylonian god of the sun was also involved in the plot to steal Sin's light. With Aya, this god fathered Kittu and Misharu.
the moon [or Earth's moon; or Luna]
Marduk [or Merodach or Mardochaios]
Shamash [or Utu]
Answer these questions about the myth of Sisyphus, as in the actual Greek myth, for 10 points each.
Sisyphus's punishment is to push one of these objects uphill in Tartarus forever. 
 Sisyphus's crime was stopping this phenomenon from happening by tying up the god of it in his own chains. In the Iliad, the god of this phenomenon carries Sarpedon's corpse away along with his brother Sleep. 
 Zeus turned these creatures into people on the island of Aegina, after whisking a namesake woman there who Sisyphus pranked by alerting Aegina's husband. These creatures thereby became elite warriors under Aeacus. 
 a boulder [or rock or stone] 
 death [or dying; accept Thanatos] 
ants [prompt on "Myrmidons"]
Answer these questions about the Titanomachy, the war between the Titans and their eventual Olympian successors, for 10 points each. 
This leader of the Titans lost to his son Zeus. This being, identified by the Romans with Saturn, attempted to swallow all his children borne by Rhea. 
 A mountain of this name in Crete is where Rhea hid her last child, Zeus, who was suckled there by the goat Amalthea. Another mountain of this name in Phrygia overlooked Troy. 
 These three creatures were rescued from Tartarus alongside the Cyclopes by Zeus. Briareus was one of these key allies of the gods, who could throw dozens of mountains at once. 
Cronus [or Kronos]
Mount Ida
Hecatonchires [or Hundred-Handed Ones; or Centamani]
This realm's inhabitants fought the Vanir, including Frey and Freya, before accepting them into their fold. For 10 points each:
Name this realm of the Norse gods. It is connected to Midgard by the Bifrost rainbow bridge. 
The "poetic" one of these works retells the Aesir-Vanir war. Snorri Sturluson wrote the "Prose" one of these Icelandic works, our main primary sources for Norse myth.
This omniscient man was created as a symbol of truce during the war when all the gods spit into a cauldron. The blood of this murder victim was used to make the Mead of Poetry.
Asgard 
eddas [or eddur; accept Poetic Edda; accept Prose Edda; accept Elder Edda; accept Younger Edda] 
Kvasir
This deity gives Odysseus the moly plant to protect him against Circe's magic, and steals Apollo's cattle when he was only a day old. For 10 points each:
Name this wielder of the snake-wrapped caduceus staff, who wears a winged helmet in his role as messenger of the gods.
This grandson of Hermes was born to Hermes's thieving son Autolycus. Penelope weaves and unweaves a burial shroud for this man to keep away suitors during Odysseus' voyage. 
This Aztec god shared a role with Hermes in that they both guided dead souls to their respective underworlds. This god, one from a set of twins, is often shown with a dog's head.
Hermes [accept Mercury] 
Laertes 
Xolotl
At this man's wedding, a fight broke out between the Centaurs and his people, the Lapiths. For 10 points each: 
Name this hero from Thessaly who went on quests to abduct women beside his close friend Theseus. 
This god keeps Pirithous stuck to a chair permanently for daring to abduct Persephone back from him. He is the brother of Zeus and Poseidon. 
A woman of this name was Pirithous's bride. Another woman of this name, a daughter of King Oenomaus, married Pelops after a rigged chariot race. 
Pirithous [or Peirithous; or Peirithoos] 
Hades [or Pluton; or Dis Pater]
Hippodamia [or Hippodameia]
Answer these questions about gods of and in the Nile river, for 10 points each.
This yearly process was governed by the blue-skinned god Hapi. This multi-week process defined the planting season of the Egyptian calendar until 1970, when human activity ended it.
This creature's head was given to Sobek, a god who protected travelers on the Nile. The heart-devouring creature Ammit, who sits next to the divine scales, has this creature's head.
This ram-headed god sat at the source of the Nile and created babies using a potter's wheel.
annual seasonal flooding of the Nile River
crocodiles [do not accept "alligator"]
Khnum
This deity lent Heracles a golden cup so big that Heracles used it as a boat. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek god, the child of Hyperion. He drives a four-horse chariot east to west across the sky every day.
This plucky son of Helios was allowed to drive the sun-chariot for one day, charring much of the earth and forcing Zeus to strike him down after he lost control.
Via the sea nymph Perse, Helios fathered this king of Colchis, who held onto the Golden Fleece after receiving it from a boy named Phrixus.
Helios [or Helius; prompt "Sun"; prompt "Phoebus;" do NOT accept "Apollo"]
Phaethon [or Phaeton]
Aeetes
This man gained control of Alba Longa after the death of his grandfather Numitor, and he was succeeded by Numa Pompilius. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who became the god Quirinus at his death. He founded a city on seven hills by the Tiber river after he killed his twin brother Remus.
Twelve of these creatures were seen flying over the eventual site of Rome by Romulus, whereas Remus saw only six. Garuda's brother Jatayu takes this form.
By Janus's will, one of these natural phenomena emerged to try and block Romulus's attempted abduction of the Sabine women. It took down many of Romulus's men.
Romulus 
vultures 
a hot spring [or a geyser; or a fountain]
Answer these questions about the Twelve Labors of Heracles, for 10 points each.
Heracles had to stun this beast and strangle it for his first labor because its fur was impervious to arrows. He later wore this creature's pelt. 
 According to Hesiod, the Nemean Lion was a son of this animal and Echidna. Heracles killed this two-headed dog in order to capture Geryon's cattle for his tenth labor. 
After that, Heracles traveled far west to get these life-giving items for his eleventh labor. He briefly traded jobs with Atlas and slew a dragon named Ladon to obtain them.
Nemean Lion 
Orthrus 
apples of the Hesperides [or golden apples; or apples of immortality; prompt on "apples"]
This figure was born after a group of birds ate all of the grass in Emain Macha and a creature jumped into Deichtine's mouth. For 10 points each:
 Identify this 14-fingered, 14-toed hero of the Ulster cycle, who wielded the spear Gae Bolg and fought in the Cattle Raid of Cooley
 Cu Chulainn got his name after killing one of these animals belonging to the smith Culainn. For his final labor, Heracles captured one of these animals with three heads.
 Cu Chulainn spurned this goddess of death and war, who often appears as a crow. During the Cattle Raid of Cooley, she turned herself into an eel and tripped Cu Chulainn.
CU CHULAINN
DOG
MORRIGAN
The Madhyamaka school of philosophy was founded within this branch by Nagarjuna. For 10 points each:
 Name this branch of Buddhism in which becoming a Bodhisattva is encouraged in order to help others achieve enlightenment. Its name means "Greater Vehicle" and it has more adherents than the Therevada.
Before Mahayana came about, there were thousands of different schools headed by different members of this group. This is the term for the entire community of ordained Buddhist monks and nuns.
 Nagarjuna introduced the concept of the "non-self" to contrast with this Buddhist concept of the inner or true self. In Hinduism it is contrasted with the universal spirit, or Brahman.
MAHAYANA
SANGHA
ATMAN
This god was given a pair of iron gloves and a staff by Grid in order to kill the giants Geirrod, Gjalp, and Greip. For 10 points each:
 Name this Norse god of thunder, the wielder of the hammer Mjollnir
Thor used Mjollnir to best this stone-hearted giant and owner of Gullfaxi in a duel.
Hymir and Thor once went fishing and caught this gigantic monster who was once disguised as a cat
THOR
HRUNGNIR
JORMUNGANDR
 Name these mythological islands, for 10 points each.
 One hundred and twelve princes arrive at this island to woo its queen, Penelope, who weaves her loom as she awaits Odysseus's return.
 Nine sisters rule this island, which bears fruits without human cultivation. After losing the Battle of Camlann, Arthur comes to this island to die.
Rama constructs a stone bridge to access this island, home to the fortress of Ravana.
ITHACA
AVALON
LANKA
. Alvis lists "hush of the winds" and "the foaming" as terms used by these people, one of whom employs the servants Byggvir and Beyla. For 10 points each:
] Name this race of gods that includes Freya and Frey. Together with a rival race that beat them, they spit to form Kvasir
 The Aesir-Vanir war was set off when this action was done to Gullveig three times. In Hindu mythology, Sati does this to herself and names a now-outlawed custom in which grieving widows kill themselves in this manner
This silent god assisted Odin in creating humans, but is best known for being a hostage during the truce negotiations between the Vanir and the Aesir.
vanir
burn
hoenir
 One of these deities is the only known parent of Prometheus. For 10 points each:
Identify this group of twelve deities led by Cronus and Rhea, who were overthrown by Zeus and the Olympians.
 Cronus used one of these sharp weapons made of either flint or adamantine to castrate his father Uranus
] This Titan and husband of Theia was the father of Selene and Eos. After the Titans were defeated, his son Helios succeeded him in his role as controller of the sun.
TITANS
SICKLE
HYPERION
. These one-breasted women kidnapped members of the Gargareans in order to reproduce with them. For 10 points each:
Name these female warriors of Greek mythology, whose numbers included Penthesilea and Queen Hippolyta.
 Heracles' ninth labor was to obtain this magical object from Hippolyta at the request of Eurystheus' daughter Admeta
] Another Amazon, Ainippe, confronted this prince from Aegina, who helped Peleus kill Phocus before marrying Periboea and fathering Ajax the Greater
AMAZONS
GIRDLE
TELAMON
4. This man led the Myrmidons and was revered by a cult on the White Island. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Thetis, a Greek combatant in the Trojan war who had a notable vulnerability at the heel.
This man was Achilles' father. Zeus and Poseidon let him marry Thetis after Hephaestus foretold that Thetis would bear a son greater than his father
This river god took revenge for an insult from Achilles by attempting to drown him three times. He would have succeeded had Hephaestus not boiled his waters and nearly killed him
ACHILLES
PELEUS
SCAMANDER
2. The protagonist of this work is undone when a single leaf from a linden tree falls onto his back. For 10 points each:
 Name this poem which ends with a feast at the great hall of King Etzel, where lots of Burgundians are murdered to avenge the protagonist's death.
This hero is killed by a spear thrown by Hagen in the Nibelungenlied. He gains the ability to understand the bird language after drinking the blood of Fafnir.
 Sigurd drinks an "Ale of Forgetfulness" to forget Brynhildr, one of these women who in the Njals saga decide who will die at the Battle of Clontarf and then transport the dead warriors to Valhalla.
NIEBLUNG
SIGURD
VALKYRIES
 One of these figures was instantly revived after being struck down in his homeland Pallene, so his opponent dragged him across the Thracian border to kill him. For 10 points each:
Alcyoneus led what group of figures with serpent tails for feet against the Olympians after the latter defeated the Titans?
The Giants were incited against the Olympians by this Earth goddess, whose union with Uranus produced the Titans
The only Giant to survive the war shares this name with the son of Apollo and Cyrene, a culture hero who discovered bee-keeping and chased Eurydice on the night that she died.
giants
GAIA
ARISTAEUS
This man is first encountered while playing a lyre as the rest of the herdsmen follow their oxen. For 10 points each
Name this Trojan whose seduction by Aphrodite is told in the fifth Homeric Hymn
The result of that union was this man whose adventures are recounted in an epic by Virgil
 After years of adventuring, Aeneas meets up with his father one last time in this location, a blissful part of the Greek afterlife
ANCHISES
AENEAS
ELYSIUM
This white creature had horns similar to those of the river god Achelous. For 10 points each
Name this creature which ravaged the area by the river Tethris and was offered by Eurystheus to Hera after its capture
The Cretan Bull was captured by this figure, who performed twelve labors as penance for killing his family in a fit of madness.The Cretan Bull was captured by this figure, who performed twelve labors as penance for killing his family in a fit of madness.
 Heracles' final wife was Hebe, who served the Olympian gods in this capacity before being replaced by Ganymede
Cretan Bull [or Marathonian bull; prompt on "bull"]
heracles
cupbearer
They include the agriculture spirit Inari, who employs foxes, and a female who once darkened the world by hiding in a cave out of frustration. For 10 points each:
Name these gods and spirits worshipped in Shinto, which often correspond to features in the natural world of Japan. The chief one is the sun goddess Amaterasu.
This brother of Amaterasu and Tsukuyomi offended her by flinging a flayed horse into her abode. This slayer of an eight-headed serpent is the kami of the sea and storms.
 Amaterasu handed down one of these objects, along with the Kusanagi blade and a string of beads, among three imperial regalia to the Japanese emperors. Another is embedded in an Aztec jaguar god's foot or chest
kami
 Susano'o [or Susanowo]
 a mirror
 Name these figures that Apollonius of Rhodes places as being depicted on Jason's cloak, for 10 points each
0] These figures, whose names are Brontes, Steropes, and Arges, are depicted making thunderbolts for Zeus
This figure is depicted in a chariot race for Hippodamia's hand in marriage. This son of Tantalus had earlier been given an ivory shoulder to replace the one Demeter ate.
 Two brothers are depicted with their greatest construction, the walls of Thebes. One moved the stones, and the other played his lyre to induce them to form the wall. Name either.
CYCLOPS
PELOPS
AMPHION OR ZETHUS
This man hastily carried an old woman, really Hera in disguise, across a river, leaving behind a sandal in the mud. For 10 points each:
Name this student of Chiron, who successfully yoked fiery bulls and sowed dragon's teeth at the behest of King Aeetes while on a journey to Colchis.
These irate winged creatures were driven off from King Phineas by two of Jason's Argonauts, Calais and Zetes, who used their own ability to fly to scare these bird-women away.
Jason sent a dove to help the Argo navigate through this dangerous set of rocks which clashed together whenever anything traveled through them.
Jason [or Iason]
harpies [or the singular harpy]
the Symplegades [or Cyanean Rocks]
This woman was told the story of Iphis and Anaxarete by an old woman, who was really her future lover in disguise. For 10 points each:
Name this wood nymph and fruit goddess successfully wooed by Vertumnus.
Pomona's orchard bore many fruits, most famously this kind. Another fruit of this type was marked "for the fairest" and thrown by Eris
Vertumnus claimed that the story of Iphis and Anaxarete was well-known on Cyprus, one of the chief cult centers of this deity who was once ensnared in a net with Ares.
Pomona
Apple
Aphrodite
