A king of this region named Agapenor took his forces to Troy in ships borrowed from Agamemnon. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek region, which later writers often portray as an idyllic land inhabited by nymphs and shepherds.
The second king of Arcadia, Lycaon, was turned into this kind of animal for his impiety. In Norse mythology, Fenrir was this kind of animal.
This god once saved the inhabitants of the Arcadian city of Megalopolis from a Spartan attack. The land beyond this god’s home in Thrace was believed to contain people who lived extraordinarily long, happy lifespans.
Arcadia
wolf
Boreas &lt;SPQR&gt;
These daughters of Atlas and Pleione were born on Mount Cyllene. For 10 points each:
Name these seven sisters of the Hyades who, while fleeing from Orion, were transformed into doves and then into stars.
In the culture of these people, the stars in the Pleiades are coincidentally also seven sisters running from a man found in the equivalent of Orion. These people’s constellations include an “Emu in the sky”.
The Pleiades form the head of a white one of these animals in a Chinese constellation system. That white animal of this type is one of the “four images” along with an Azure Dragon, Vermilion Bird, and Black Turtle.
Pleiades [prompt on Atlantides]
Australian Aboriginals [accept any answer describing Indigenous Australians]
White Tiger [accept laohu] &lt;AW&gt;
This god ruled over an underworld specifically for the drowned. For 10 points,
Name this god of rain whose wife Xo·chi·que·tzal was kidnapped by Tez·cat·li·poca. Chal·chiuht·li·cue later married this god who was often offered children and jaguars as sacrifices.
The name Chal·chiuht·li·cue is Nahuatl for one of these items made of jade. The mother of the sun, moon, and stars, Coatlicue, has a name referring to one of these items made of snakes.
Tlaloc and Huit·zi·lo·pocht·li both belonged to the pantheon of this people who built Tenochtitlan and worshipped a feathered serpent god known as Quetzalcoatl.
Tlaloc
skirts
Aztecs [or Mexica] &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about warrior women in mythology:
This dark-skinned Hindu warrior goddess drank the demon Raktabija’s [“RAK-tha-bee-juhz”] blood to stop him from regenerating. She’s often depicted with a lolling red tongue, a skirt of human arms, a garland of human heads, and many weapons.
These “choosers of the slain” guide the valiant dead to Valhalla in preparation for Ragnarok. Their armor is said to cause the aurora borealis.
The hero Cuchulain was given the spear Gae Bulg and trained in martial arts by this “Warrior Maid” who feuded with her sister Aoife [“EE-fa”]. This daughter of Ard-Greimne [“ard-GREEM-nuh”] resides in a Fortress of Shadows on the Isle of Skye.
Kali
valkyries
Scathach &lt;HK&gt;
The title figure of this work slays Fimafeng and refuses to flee until he is threatened with a beating with a hammer. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that depicts a trickster visiting Aegir’s hall, after which he insults the Aesir by accusing most of them of infidelity.
Loki only flees after this thunder god threatens to beat him up. This son of Odin wields the hammer Mjolnir.
The scene in which Loki insults Sif comes from the Lokasenna, a part of this Icelandic epic poem which opens with the Voluspa.
Lokasenna
Thor
Poetic Edda [prompt on just Eddas] &lt;HK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about sex changes…in Greek mythology:
This man was transformed into a woman after striking a pair of copulating snakes. This blind seer reveals that Oedipus killed his own father.
After this god abducted Caenis, he granted her one wish, transforming her into a man named Caeneus. Earthquakes were believed to be caused by this god of the sea.
A figure with this name was a daughter of Galatea raised as a boy, and was changed to a man after their mother Galatea prayed to Leto. This name, which means “white horse,” was shared by the teacher of Democritus.
Tiresias
Poseidon
Leucippus &lt;SPQR&gt;    Tiebreaker
A large monument of this kind was created several hundred years ago in what is now Bighorn National Forest. For 10 points each:
Name this spiritual symbol of midwestern Native Americans, which is often represented by a large ring of stones, with lines of stones radiating from the center in the cardinal directions.
Some medicine wheels were designed to track this celestial object, which is honored by Plains Indians in a namesake “dance.” In a Haida myth, Raven stole this object and hung it up in the sky along with the Moon.
Other wheel-shaped Native American spiritual objects include these hoops, which are woven with a spider’s-web like net and hung above the cradles of Ojibwe infants. They are often decorated with feathers.
medicine wheel
the Sun [accept Sun Dance]
dreamcatchers &lt;JR&gt;
After Penelope experiences one of <em>these</em> phenomena, she compares two pairs of gates of horn and ivory which respectively provide true and false forms of these entities. For 10 points each:
Name these phenomena sometimes personified as Oneiroi. Morpheus was said to appear during these phenomena.
Oneiros, like Thanatos, is often portrayed as a brother of this god of sleep.
The image of two gates of ivory and horn also appear when this Trojan prince uses a golden bough to enter the underworld in an epic written by Virgil.
dreams
Hypnos
Aeneas &lt;AW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about eyes…in mythology:
The goddess Hera’s hundred-eyed servant Argus was bored to death by Hermes on Zeus’ behest; upon hearing of Argus’ death, Hera placed his eyes into the plumage of this bird.
The wadjet eye was also known as the eye of this god whose sons guarded the canopic jars and the cardinal directions.
This king of the Fomorians was said to have an evil eye so large that four men were required to open its lid. He was eventually slain by Lugh.
peacocks
Horus
Balor &lt;HK&gt;
The noble houses of Thebes claimed descent from people born from <em>these</em> objects. For 10 points each:
Name these objects sown by Cadmus at Athena’s advice. After planting them, fully-armed men warriors called the spartoi emerged from the earth.
Another group of mythological autoch·thonoi, or those born from the earth, were the kings of this Greek city. Kings of this city named Cecrops and Erichthonius were depicted as half-snake, half-person.
Due to her function as goddess of the Earth, many autochthons were conflated with children of this deity. This deity gave birth to the Titans by her husband Ouranos.
dragon’s teeth [prompt on partial answer]
Athens
Gaia [accept Ge] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This culture’s storm god Teshub evolved into a later civilization’s god Tarhunt. For 10 points each:
Name this Bronze Age culture whose mythology influenced the Hittites and Luwians. The Mitanni kingdom spoke the language of this culture.
Teshub is born when his father Kumarbi bites the genitals of the sky god Anu, analogously to how this Greek figure castrates his father Uranus.
Teshub is depicted holding an axe and a “triple” item of this type. Indra carries a weapon representing both a diamond and one of these objects known as a vajra.
Hurrians [accept Khurrites]
Cronus
thunderbolt &lt;AW&gt;
Two of these creatures are named for thought and memory. For 10 points each:
Name these birds. Huginn and Muninn are two of them who fly across the world every day to deliver news to Odin in Norse mythology.
This goddess associated with crows weakened Cuchulain by offering him dog meat. Her three aspects are Badb, Macha, and Nemain, and she serves as a goddess of war and death.
Greek tradition states this god sent a white raven to spy on his lover Coronis. When the raven told this slayer of the Python that Coronis was unfaithful, he turned its feathers black in anger.
ravens [do not accept or prompt on “crows”]
the Morrigan
Apollo &lt;HK&gt;
This god will duel and kill his foe during Ragnarok, but then will take nine steps before dying himself. For 10 points each:
Name this Norse god of thunder who wields the hammer Mjolnir [“MYAWL-neer”].
At Ragnarok, Thor will kill and be killed by this creature, an offspring of Angrboda and Loki sometimes depicted with its tail in its mouth. Thor almost caught this creature on a fishing trip, but his companion cut it loose.
Thor went on that fishing trip with this giant who had an unusually hard skull. The Aesir desired this giant’s mile-wide cauldron so they could brew beer in it.
Thor
Midgard Serpent (or Jormungandr; prompt on World Serpent)
Hymir &lt;Suh, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about big, bad monsters from Greek mythology.
This monster was so fearsome that most of the gods fled to Egypt to avoid its wrath. This son of Gaia failed in his attempt to overthrow Zeus, and was thus buried under Mt. Etna.
This daughter of Poseidon and Gaia was turned into a monster by Zeus for engulfing lands in water to aid her father’s dispute with Zeus.
Possibly the most famous offspring of Typhon and Echidna is this giant three-headed dog that guards the entrance to the Underworld.
Typhon [“TIE-fon”] (or Typhos, Typhaon, or Typhoeus)
Charybdis [“kuh-RIB-dis”]
Cerberus (or Kerberos) &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
This culture created the Stela C, which is the oldest known Mesoamerican Long Count calendar to date. For 10 points each:
Identify this oldest known Mesoamerican civilization, perhaps best known for producing “colossal heads.”
Olmecs also made face masks out of this semi-precious stone. This non-emerald material was also used in ancient China to create miniature dragons and other ornaments.
Common motifs in Olmec art feature depictions of humans combined with these four-legged animals. Olmecs believed that in the past a race of creatures existed that were half-human and half these animals.
Olmecs
jade
jaguars (accept werejaguars) &lt;Suh, Ancient History; Finals&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the undoubtedly coolest hero, Finn McCool:
Stories about Finn McCool are collected in the Fenian Cycle from this European country, whose mythology also contains the legends of Cu Chulainn [“koo KUL-lin”] in the Ulster Cycle.
Finn gained access to all of the world’s knowledge when he ate part of one of these specific animals that had been caught by the druid Finnegas.
Before defeating the fire-breathing deity Aillen [“EYE-lin”], Finn used a hot spear to make sure that Aillen couldn’t force him to take this action.
Ireland (or Éire)
salmon of knowledge (prompt on fish)
fall asleep &lt;Duffy, Mythology; Finals&gt;
This god wields the fire serpent Xiuhcoatl <strong>[“SHEE-uh-koh-AH-tul”]</strong> as his weapon. For 10 points each:
Name this Aztec god of fire and war. He was born fully grown after his mother Coatlicue [“KWAHT-lee-kway”] was impregnated by a ball of feathers.
Huitzilopochtli was often portrayed as a “southern” or “left-handed” one of these birds. Aztec warriors were thought to become these birds after death.
In Aztec belief, Huitzilopochtli served as the fifth one of these objects. Tezcatlipoca [“tez-kaht-lee-POKE-ah”], the god of the first iteration of this object, was ineffective because he was paradoxically also the god of night.
Huitzilopochtli [“WEET-zee-lo-PO-chlee”]
hummingbirds
sun &lt;Duffy, Mythology; Finals&gt;
When Freya’s husband Odr is gone, she cries tears of this material. For 10 points each:
Name this shiny metal that also makes up the bristles of the boar Gullinbursti. Unlike Odin’s throne which is made from silver, his ring Draupnir is made from this metal.
Another Norse god associated with gold is this watcher god. In addition to extremely keen hearing and eyesight, this god possesses golden teeth.
This wife of Thor possessed golden hair fashioned by the Sons of Ivaldi. She may have been a fertility goddess whose hair represented golden wheat.
gold
Heimdallr
Sif &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the murders committed by the sorceress Medea.
Medea killed her brother Absyrtus while helping this man escape Colchis [“CALL-kiss”] with the Golden Fleece. She later helped him take revenge on his treacherous uncle, Pelias.
Description acceptable. Medea convinced Pelias’s daughters to kill him in this manner after she revived a ram killed in this way. After Pelias’s daughters killed him in this manner, Medea simply left without reviving him.
Medea unsuccessfully tried to kill this hero to ensure that her son Medus would become the heir to the throne. After recognizing a sword and a pair of sandals that this hero owned, this hero’s father realized this hero was his own son and stopped Medea.
Jason (or Iásōn)
chopping him up into pieces (accept reasonable equivalents; also accept exsanguination or other answers that mention removing blood; generously prompt on decapitation or beheading)
Theseus &lt;Suh, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, furnish the following facts about fantastical fruits from folklore.
The 11th labor of Heracles was to retrieve golden examples of these fruits that grew in the Garden of the Hesperides [“hehs-PARE-ih-deez”]. Hippomenes [“hih-POE-muh-neez”] used three of these fruits to distract Atalanta during a race, winning the competition and her hand in marriage.
In Chinese mythology, deities gain immortality by eating these fruits from a tree that only produces them every 6,000 years.
In Polynesian mythology, Maui [“MAO-ee”] created the first one of these fruits by killing an eel that had harassed his wife and burying its head in the ground, where it sprouted into a tree.
golden apples
peaches
coconuts &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
While building the walls of a city, one of these two brothers played the lyre so sweetly that stones glided into their place. For 10 points each:
Name either of those two brothers. One of them married Niobe, who foolishly boasted that she had more children than the goddess Leto. The other was married to a nymph who was the namesake of the city they built.
Amphion and Zethus built the walls of this city, which was founded by Cadmus. This city was the birthplace of Heracles.
The Greek historian Herodotus credited Cadmus with introducing this general system of letters to the Greeks.
Amphion and Zethus (accept either)
Thebes
alphabet &lt;Suh, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the Hindu god Hanuman <strong>[“HAH-noo-mun”]</strong>.
Hanuman is often depicted as a divine one of these animals. Scholars speculate that Hanuman’s depiction in the form of this animal may have influenced portrayals of the Chinese character Sun Wukong.
Hanuman is one of the main characters of this Hindu epic, in which he helps the title character rescue his bride, Sita, from King Ravana of Lanka.
Description acceptable. In the Ramayana, Hanuman is sent to a Himalayan mountain to retrieve an herb that will save Rama’s dying brother. Because Hanuman isn’t sure which herb is needed, he takes this action to ensure that he can return in time with the correct herb.
monkey
Ramayana
he brings the whole mountain (accept descriptive equivalents; do NOT accept or prompt on answers implying Hanuman altered the mountain in any way, like “shrinking” or “splitting” it; prompt on answers that mention he grew in size by asking “To do what?”; prompt on bringing all of the herbs by asking “How was he able to bring all of the herbs?”) &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the geography of the Greek underworld.
The most prominent building in the underworld is the palace of this Greek god of the dead and king of the underworld. This god’s name can refer to the underworld itself.
This river, known as the river of fire, surrounds the hellish region of Tartarus and helps prevent escape.
In contrast to Tartarus and Elysium, these fields in the underworld are the final destination for ordinary souls. In The Odyssey, Odysseus meets with the ghosts of his fallen comrades in this location.
Hades (or Aides or Aidoneus)
Phlegethon
Asphodel Fields (or Asphodel Meadows) &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
According to the <em>Bibliotheca</em>, the women of this island were afflicted with a terrible smell after Aphrodite cursed its inhabitants for neglecting her shrines. For 10 points each:
Name this island once ruled by Hipsipyle [“hip-SIP-uh-lee”]. The Sintians took care of a god who spent his childhood on this island.
According to some accounts, this god of metallurgy, the Greek equivalent of Vulcan, fell from Olympus onto Lemnos and established his forge there.
Erichthonius, the offspring of Hephaestus and Gaia, invented the quadriga, a type of these objects. Salmoneus attached torches to one of these objects in an effort to be worshiped like Zeus.
Lemnos
Hephaestus
chariots &lt;Suh, Mythology&gt;
This Egyptian warrior goddess was said to protect pharaohs and lead them into battle. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who was sometimes associated with Hathor and Bast. Her breath was said to have formed the desert.
Sekhmet was portrayed as one of these large cats, which were some of the fiercest predators in Egypt. The sphinx has the head of a human and the body of one of these animals.
Ra once sent Sekhmet to destroy evil humans, but she got carried away and almost destroyed all of humanity. Ra finally pacified her bloodlust by giving her some of this substance.
Sekhmet (or Sachmet or Sekhet)
lioness
red beer (prompt on alcohol or equivalents) &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about Greek mythological figures who changed sex.
A young boy named Siproites [“sih-pro-EYE-tees”] was turned into a girl for looking at this goddess of the hunt while she was naked. This goddess was the twin sister of Apollo.
This blind prophet of Apollo was turned into a woman for seven years by Hera after striking two snakes with a stick.
Among this group of legendary people from Thessaly was Caeneus, who was originally a woman but was turned into a man by Poseidon. These people, led by Pirithous, fought in the Centauromachy.
Artemis (prompt on Diana)
Tiresias
Lapiths [“LAY-pith”] &lt;Suh, Mythology&gt;
This deity tried to hoard all of the world’s wisdom in a pot, but he accidentally dropped the pot and let wisdom spread throughout the world. For 10 points each:
Identify this West African trickster god and master of stories.
Anansi often takes the form of one of these animals. In this form, Anansi used webs to ensnare and capture a leopard at the behest of Nyame.
As part of his quest to win the world’s stories, Anansi also had to capture an invisible fairy, which he did by creating one of these objects that stuck to the fairy and immobilized her when she hit it.
Kwaku Anansi
spider
gum doll (do NOT accept or prompt on “tar baby” or any answers that mention “tar”) [Writer’s note: The tar baby comes from a different story, in which it was used to capture Anansi himself.] &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
This man defeated the Bear Lake Monster in a wrestling match and later shot down all of the stars except the Lone Star to impress a girl. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical cowboy, a common figure in tall tales from the American West.
One of Pecos Bill’s most famous exploits was when he captured one of these things with his rattlesnake lasso and used it to carve out the Grand Canyon.
Pecos Bill’s horse, Widowmaker, once bucked Bill’s wife, Slue-Foot Sue, so high that she became stranded on this object. In honor of Pecos Bill’s sorrow over losing his wife, coyotes now howl at this celestial object.
Pecos Bill (prompt on Bill)
tornado (accept equivalents like twister or cyclone)
the Moon &lt;Duffy, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about some of the greatest musicians…in Greek mythology:
This young woman’s father Alcinous rules Phae·acia [fee-AY-shuh], where he employs the bard Demo·docus. She first appears in Book 6 of the Odyssey when she provides spare clothes for a shipwrecked Odysseus.
This legendary bard uses his beautiful music to convince Hades that his dead wife Eury·dice should be resurrected, but accidentally loses her forever on their way out of the underworld.
The bardic satyr [“SAY”-tur] Marsyas [MAHR-see-uss] undergoes this fate when he loses a music contest to the god Apollo. According to tradition, the namesake founder of Mani·chaeism [“MANIH”-KEE-“ism”] was given this punishment before he was crucified.
Nausicaa [naw-sih-KAY-ah] or [nah-“SICKY”-ah]
Orpheus
they are skinned alive [or obvious equivalents; prompt on descriptions of being made into a drum] &lt;SPQR&gt;
During his tenth labour, Heracles fights a two-headed variety of this animal named Orthrus. For 10 points each:
Name this animal, another example of which is the enormous, three-headed Cerberus.
This mythical hero is fatally weakened when he fulfills a curse by eating dog meat. Soon after, he is ambushed by Lugaid [LsOO-gahd], and ties himself to a tall stone so that he can die standing.
This hero’s dog Cavall appears in a number of early Welsh myths. After the Battle of Camlann, this hero laments to Bedivere that he could save others around him, but failed to save himself.
dog [accept C. familiaris or Canis familiaris; or obvious equivalents]
Cú Chulainn [or Sétanta]
King Arthur [or Arthur Pendragon] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about characters with shared names…in Greek mythology:
A Lycian warrior with this name swaps armour with Dio·medes [“die”-AW-mee-DEEZ] during the Trojan War. Meanwhile, an unrelated fisherman of this name turns into a merman and falls in love with the nymph Scylla [SILL-luh].
There exist at least three characters by the name of Aeolus [AY-oh-luss]; at least one of them is a god of this phenomenon, which is also personified by Bore·as [BOH-ree-uss] and Zephyrus.
In the Iliad, the warriors Ajax the Greater and Ajax the Lesser fight under this king of Mycenae [“my”-SEE-nee], who’s the commander of the Greek army.
Glaucus
wind [or obvious equivalents; prompt on air; do not accept “sky”]
Agamemnon &lt;SPQR&gt;
This author’s <em>Heroides</em> [heh-ROH-ih-DEEZ] are a set of poetic letters from the perspectives of Dido, Hermione, and other women from Greco-Roman mythology. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman mythographer who compiled legends about transformations in his Metamorphoses.
Ovid’s Metamorphoses includes the story of Helios’s son Phaethon [FAY-thawn], whose terrible attempt at this activity leaves the earth charred and dehydrated. A description is fine.
The Metamorphoses also retells the fate of this princess of Athens: when her tongue is cut off by her husband Tereus, the only way she can communicate her tragedy is by weaving a tapestry depicting it.
Ovid [or Publius Ovidius Naso]
he drives the sun chariot [or obvious equivalents; prompt on answers that describe him trying to be the sun or similar]
Philomela &lt;SPQR&gt;
This author’s <em>Heroides</em> [heh-ROH-ih-DEEZ] are a set of poetic letters from the perspectives of Dido, Hermione, and other women from Greco-Roman mythology. For 10 points each:
Name this Roman mythographer who compiled legends about transformations in his Metamorphoses.
Ovid’s Metamorphoses includes the story of Helios’s son Phaethon [FAY-thawn], whose terrible attempt at this activity leaves the earth charred and dehydrated. A description is fine.
The Metamorphoses also retells the fate of this princess of Athens: when her tongue is cut off by her husband Tereus, the only way she can communicate her tragedy is by weaving a tapestry depicting it.
Ovid [or Publius Ovidius Naso]
he drives the sun chariot [or obvious equivalents; prompt on answers that describe him trying to be the sun or similar]
Philomela &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about properties of bird feathers…in mythology:
These monsters from Greek mythology live in a swamp in Arcadia, where they shoot their metal feathers and poisonous dung at passersby. Eventually, Hephaestus forges a noisy rattle that scares them away.
This Norse goddess of love has a cloak of feathers that allows her to shape-shift and to fly at superspeed. Some mythologists have suggested that she and Frigg were once a single goddess.
In Egyptian mythology, a dead person’s heart is weighed against this goddess’s feather of truth; heavy hearts are devoured by the cute but deadly monster Ammit.
Stym·phalian birds [or Stym·phalides ornithes; or obvious equivalents]
Freya [or Freyja or Freja; do not accept “Frey” or “Freyr”; do not accept “Frigg” or “Frigga”]
Maat [mah-AHT] [or Ma’at] &lt;SPQR&gt;
During the Gigantomachy, Athena hurls Mount Etna onto this island, where it crushes the terrible giant Enceladus. For 10 points each:
Name this large Italian island where the city-state of Syracuse was the site of a festival commemorating the abduction of Persephone.
This god’s cattle graze the marvellous grass on Sicily…until they are butchered by the foolish men of Odysseus during their journey home. This god was sometimes identified with one aspect of Apollo.
A year after this character’s death, he is buried on the shores of Sicily and honoured with funeral games. Soon afterwards, he appears in the underworld to introduce his son to gates of horn and ivory.
Sicily [or Sicilia; accept Thrinacia]
Helios
Anchises &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about agriculture…in Greek mythology:
Whenever her daughter Persephone is whisked away to the underworld, this Greek goddess of agriculture uses her sadness to bring winter to the earth.
This son of Apollo has such a knowledge of agriculture that he can even teach humanity how to keep bees. In another myth, he falls in love with Orpheus’s wife Eury·dice and chases her until she is fatally bitten by a snake.
Fertility rites may have been introduced this Greek hero who is loved by both Aphro·dite and Persephone. Unfortunately, he’s gored to death by a boar, but at least his blood creates the anemone flower.
Demeter [do not accept “Ceres”]
Aristaeus [AAH-riss-STEE-uss]
Adonis &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the nature of knowledge…in Norse mythology:
In his namesake poem, the giant Vafthrudnir repeatedly engages in this activity with Odin to determine who is wiser. The dwarf Alviss turns to stone when Thor does this action to him until the sun rises.
This wise deity is beheaded when some of the gods suspect that his partner Hoenir is feigning his wisdom. In a presumably earlier episode, Odin drinks from this god’s namesake well of knowledge.
Because he is made from the spit of the gods, the infinitely-wise Kvasir is the master of this literary genre. This form was used to write the elder of the two Eddas, in contrast to the Prose Edda.
he asks questions [or he asks riddles; or obvious equivalents; do not accept “insults” or “flytings”]
Mimir [or Mim] (The name “Mimir” is related the modern words “mammer” and “memory”.)
poetry [accept the Poetic Edda] &lt;AF/EK&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about mythical materials that are coarse, rough, and, at times, irritating:
When he steals fire from the gods, this Greek Titan is bound by chains of the unwieldingly impenetrable material adamantine.
In the past, the solidified urine of this animal was collected for its supposed magnetic properties. In the Metamorphoses, a king of Scythia is transformed into this animal when he attacks Triptolemus.
The mythology of these people describes a scarred and deformed monolith that emerges from the earth after a battle. Many of their creation myths are set during the so-called “dreamtime”.
Prometheus
lynx
Australian Aborigines [or the Aboriginal Australian people or obvious equivalents; prompt on the Australian people] &lt;SPQR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the properties of teeth… in mythology:
This Norse god with golden teeth wields a magic hunting horn called Gjallar·horn [G’YAHL-err-“HORN”] and lives near the rainbow bridge Bifröst [“BEE”-“frost”].
This Polynesian trickster’s attempt to make humans immortal is foiled when he is crushed to death by the vagina dentata, or toothed vagina, of the death goddess Hine.
In Hinduism, this god demonstrates his son Karna’s generosity by convincing him to break and donate the gold in his teeth. This god’s chariot is pulled by seven horses led by the charioteer Aruna.
Heimdall [or Heimdallr] (The Old Norse pronunciation of Gjallar·horn, or “yell horn”, is closer to Gjallar·horn [K’YAHT-luhrr-HOH-ruhn] or Gjallar·horn /cat.lar.horn/.)
Maui
Surya &lt;AF&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the constant intrusions of <em>Hera</em> into the life of Hera<em>cles</em>:
When Hera inflicts Heracles with a fit of madness, he comes to his senses to find that, in his anger, he has performed this action. As penance for this action, Heracles performs his twelve labours; a description is fine.
Heracles’s death is engineered by one of these half-man, half-horse creatures descended from a likeness of Hera. Except for the wise Chiron, these beasts are all very uncivilised.
After another fit of madness, Heracles spends three years as a slave to this queen of Lydia when he murders his best friend Iphitus and kills not just the men of Iphitus’s family, but the women and children, too.
he murders his children [or obvious equivalents]
centaur [or hippo·centaur]
Omphale [AHM-fah-LAY] &lt;SPQR&gt;
This god is often depicted as a spider as he performs tasks such as capturing hornets in a calabash and tying a python to a tree branch. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical trickster whose folklore originated in West African countries such as Ghana.
Anansi’s father is a god of this domain named Nyame [N’YAH-may]. The Proto-Indo-European god of this domain, Dyeus Phter [DAY-ooss PAH-tuhrr], was the origin of the devas as well as the gods Zeus, Jupiter, and Tyr.
Anansi is among the origins of a traditional American trickster figure from the South who takes this animal form and is called “Br’er” [rhymes with “bare”], or “brother.”
Anansi [or Kwaku Ananse]
the sky [or the heavens; or obvious equivalents; do not accept “wind”; do not accept “air”]
rabbit [or bunny; or leporid or Leporidae; accept Br’er Rabbit; accept O. cuniculus or Oryctolagus cuniculus] &lt;MK&gt;
To cheat death is a power only one has achieved, but, if you work together, you can answer the following about it, for 10 points each.
When this character from Arthurian legend succeeds in the quest to find the Holy Grail, he is given the ability to choose the time of his death.
In his namesake Mesopotamian epic, this king of Uruk states that if he and his friend Enkidu were to work together, they could also find the secret to eternal life.
When his lover fails to wish for eternal youth alongside immortality, Tithonus undergoes this fate, which renders him able only to make noises some consider to be unnatural.
Sir Galahad
Gilgamesh [or Bilgames; accept the Epic of Gilgamesh]
he transforms into a chirping insect [sources differ on whether it’s a cricket or a cicada, so accept anything in the spectrum of chirping insects] &lt;EK&gt;
This god and his twin brother Quetzal·coatl were thought to be the dark and light aspects of the planet Venus, respectively. For 10 points each:
Name this dog-headed Aztec god of lightning who accompanies the dead to the underworld Mictlan.
In the mythology of these people, Shu and Tefnut, the primordial gods of air, are twin siblings and lovers; their children, Geb and Nut, the primordial gods of the earth, are twin siblings and lovers.
The Ashvins are a pair of twin horsemen who appear in this Hindu epic that contains the Bhagavad Gita.
Xolotl [“SHOW”-loht]
ancient Egypt [or Misr alqadima; or obvious equivalents]
The Maha·bharata [or the Maha·bharatam]
A yellow one of these objects from Celtic mythology inflicts wounds from which nobody can heal. For 10 points each:
Name these weapons, a jeweled variety of which was used to create the Japanese islands.
This specific spear from Norse mythology can strike any target no matter the distance and ability of the thrower. It also has runes carved into its tip.
Gae Bulg is the spear of this “Hound of Ulster.” This hero was known to go into a battle frenzy in which he single-handedly took on entire armies.
spears
Gungnir [prompt on Odin’s spear]
Cú Chulainn &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This group of historical and mythological figures was a group of loaned and native gods worshipped in Japan. For 10 points each:
Name this group of gods worshipped in Japan. For the New Year Celebration, they are often depicted riding the takarabune, or treasure boat.
This God is the only native Japanese deity. People often prayed to this fisherman-like god for good luck regarding business.
Jurojin, the historical figure of the group, was known to be followed by a deer, a tortoise, and one of these creatures. Folding one thousand paper versions of this animal was said to grant one wish.
Seven Gods of Fortune [or Seven Lucky Gods or Shichifukujin]
Ebisu-sama
crane &lt;Yoshida&gt;
In some myths, this group plucked the feathers from the Sirens, and made wreaths from them. For 10 points each:
Name this group of nine goddesses who represent various arts, including dance and epic poetry.
The mother of the Muses was this Titaness of memory who slept with Zeus for 9 consecutive nights.
Because the Pierides lost a music competition to the Muses, they suffered this fate.
Muses
Mnemosyne
being turned into birds [also accept answer replacing “birds” with magpie, grebe, wryneck, ortolan, jay, greenfinch, goldfinch, duck, woodpecker, and dracontis pigeon but NO OTHER BIRD TYPES] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This bandit from Attica was killed when Theseus forced him to fit in his own bed. For 10 points each:
Name this man who loved to stretch people or cut off their feet to make them fit his beds.
In the underworld, this son of Elara and Zeus was stretched out over nine acres and had his liver eaten by two vultures. Hera had him try to rape Leto in revenge for Zeus’ infidelity.
Like Tityus, this titan, who brought fire to mankind, was chained to a rock and had his liver eaten until he was freed by Hercules.
Procrustes
Tityus
Prometheus &lt;Yoshida&gt;
Izanagi needed to cleanse himself when he returned from the underworld, and doing so produced some interesting results. For 10 points each:
When Izanagi washed his face, Susano’o was born from his nose, Amaterasu from his left eye, and this moon god was born from his right eye.
The three deities also had an influence on the three imperial regalia of Japan, which consist of The Grass Cutting Sword, the Eight-Sided Mirror, and one of these objects.
Another Japanese deity with jewels was the god Ryujin. In Japanese mythology, Ryujin famously used his jewels to do this action.
Tsukuyomi-no-Mikoto [do not accept or prompt on Tsuki]
jewels
control the tides [accept invade Korea] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This Aztec Lord of the Night had his right foot replaced with an obsidian mirror. For 10 points each:
Name this smoking mirror, who was knocked out of the sky with a stone. This deity then turned into a Jaguar and destroyed that world.
This other deity, known as the Red Tezcatlipoca, was depicted being flayed. People would often touch the flayed skin of those sacrificed to this deity to cure their ailments.
In human sacrifices to Xipe Totec, a sacrificial knife made of obsidian or this fire-producing material was used to remove the victim’s heart and flay them.
Black Tezcatlipoca [do not accept or prompt on Smoking Mirror]
Xipe Totec [do not prompt on Red Tezcatlipoca or the Flayed One]
flint &lt;Yoshida&gt;
The Planctae, or wandering rocks, were one example of these mythological things. For 10 points each:
Name these things, other examples of which include Naxos and Milos.
Another famous mythological island is this island, upon which Leto gave birth to Artemis and Apollo. It was mostly barren.
After Leto gave birth, this fate befell Delos. Description acceptable.
islands
Delos
it was anchored in place [accept anything about it not being able to move] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
While the wealthy turned their backs on the disguised Zeus and Hermes, one couple did not. For 10 points each:
Name this Phrygian couple who realized that they were in the presence of divinity when Hermes made wine replenish with magic.
As gratitude for their treatment, Zeus and Hermes allowed Baucis and Philemon to survive this catastrophe which occurred in their town after they left without turning back.
At their request that that when one of them dies, the other would as well, Baucis and Philemon were transformed into these objects at their death.
Baucis and Philemon
flood [accept descriptions indicating destruction by water]
trees [accept linden and oak] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This baboon-headed god protected the throne of Osiris in the underworld. For 10 points each:
Name this god who was the protector of the lungs of the deceased.
Hapi and his three brothers were sons of this god. Together, the four brothers were guardians of the canopic jars.
A different Egyptian god also named Hapi governed this phenomenon. There were Egyptian festivals celebrating this “arrival of Hapi.”
Hapi
Horus
flooding of the Nile [do not accept or prompt on Nile on its own] &lt;Yoshida&gt;
While Penelope was virtuously rejecting those who desired her, Odysseus was … well … not. For 10 points each:
On the island of Aeaea, Circe decided that she liked Odysseus when he resisted her spell by doing this.
Later, he spends seven years with Calypso, a resident of this island.
Odysseus misses Penelope and leaves Ogygia, but not before having his way with this Phaeacian princess.
eating moly [prompt on eating a plant, if they start blabbering about Hermes still prompt]
Ogygia
Nausicaa &lt;Yoshida&gt;
This goddess arrived to Rome in the form of a large black stone, and Claudia Quinta was selected to welcome the goddess into the city. For 10 points each:
Name this Phrygian “mother” goddess who was often conflated with Rhea. She was often accompanied by her castrated consort Attis.
Claudia Quinta brought Cybele to Rome in the hopes of receiving the goddess’ help in defeating this rival city in North Africa. Hannibal Barca of this city faithfully worshiped Melqart.
Cybele came to Rome in the form of a rock of this color. Aegeus, the father of Theseus, committed suicide by jumping into the sea after he saw sails of this color coming into Athens.
Cybele [“SEE-buh-lee”]
Carthage
black &lt;Suh&gt;
These figures were conceived when a severed head spit into the hand of their mother. For 10 points each:
Name these mythological figures who defeated the Lords of Xibalba [“shee-bal-ba”] to avenge their father’s death.
The Hero Twins are mythological figures from this civilization. Misinterpretation of this civilization’s calendar led some to believe that the world would end in 2012.
Hunahpu was temporarily decapitated by Camazotz, who was the Mayan god of these animals, who then took the head to be used as a ball in the underworld gods’ ballgame.
Hero Twins (or Hunahpu and Xbalanque [“shee-bee-LAHN-kay”])
Mayans
bats &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about repeated names in Greek mythology.
According to some accounts, Pirithous was killed by this dog of King Aedoneus, who shared its name with the more famous canine guardian of the Greek underworld usually depicted with three heads.
Two Greek heroes with this shared name fought in the Trojan War, and both met unhappy endings. One committed suicide in shame, and the other drowned after boasting of surviving a shipwreck.
Zeus abducted Ganymede to be his cupbearer from this locale in Anatolia, which shares its name with the mountain on Crete where Zeus was born.
Cerberus
Ajax (accept Telamonian Ajax; accept Locrian Ajax; accept other epitaphs preceding Ajax)
Mount Ida (accept Phrygian Ida) &lt;Suh&gt;
The Egyptian underworld, or Duat, was full of more than just dead people. For 10 points each, answer the following about creatures and things in the Duat.
These animals guard the gate to the Duat. One of these animals named Babi stands next to a lake of fire.
In the Duat, this sun god changes forms from the old Atum to the reborn Khepri. This god and his attendants also battle the serpent Apophis.
In the Hall of Judgment, Anubis will weigh the hearts of the deceased against one of these objects. If the heart is heavier, it will be devoured by the beast Ammit.
baboon (prompt on monkey)
Ra
feather of Maat &lt;Duffy&gt;
Some of the first stories about this man were written by Chrétien de Troyes in the 12th century. For 10 points each:
Name this knight of the Round Table whose affair with Lady Guinevere, the wife of King Arthur, eventually led to a civil war in Camelot.
Due to his adultery, Lancelot’s quest for this object fails. Lancelot’s son, Galahad, successfully retrieves this object before ascending to heaven.
Before its retrieval by Galahad, the Holy Grail was in this man’s possession. This man was impotent due to a lower body injury which is thought to have made his land became a barren wasteland.
Sir Lancelot de Lac
the Holy Grail (prompt on grail)
the Fisher King (or the Wounded King or Maimed King) &lt;Duffy&gt;
Answer the following about volcanoes and their place in various mythologies. For 10 points each:
Name this Pacific island whose volcano Kīlauea is considered to be the home of the goddess Pele.
According to Alaskan myth, the “great” ones of these birds were once said to have lived in volcanoes until they captured and ate the wife of a hunter, who killed all of these birds living in volcanoes in retribution.
Mt. Etna’s volcanic eruptions were explained as the breath of this giant, who was said to be trapped under the volcano by Athena. Do not confuse this giant with Typhon.
Hawaii
eagles
Enceladus &lt;Suh&gt;
This goddess emerged fully formed out of the forehead of Zeus. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek goddess of wisdom. She bested Poseidon to be the guardian of a certain city by gifting the first-ever olive tree to the city. Her favorites included Odysseus.
This Titaness was the mother of Athena. After Zeus impregnated her, he convinced her to turn into a fly and then swallowed her whole.
This early king of Athens was born when Athena wiped away the semen of Hephaestus from her thigh. When this man was a baby, Athena put him in a box and gave him to the daughters of Cecrops, who died after opening the box against Athena’s orders.
Athena (or Athene; or Pallas; prompt on Minerva)
Metis
Erichthonius &lt;Suh&gt;
Mortals who challenged deities often lost the challenge, and sometimes, even their lives. For 10 points each:
Depending on the account, Arachne may have been a better weaver than Athena, but nonetheless, Athena turned her into this web-producing, eight-legged arthropod.
Heracles once lost a drinking contest against this god, and therefore had to temporarily join the thiasus, this god’s retinue of ecstatic followers.
This satyr was flayed alive for his hubris [“HEW-bris”] after challenging Apollo to a music contest and losing.
spider (prompt on arachnid, I guess)
Dionysus (or Bacchus)
Marsyas &lt;Suh&gt;
Cuchulainn had one of these carved from the bone of the sea monster Coinchenn named Gae Bulg. For 10 points each:
Another of these, Gungnir, has a shaft made of wood from the Yggdrasil and a series of runes engraved on its tip.
As opposed to his spear-wielding father Odin, Thor shattered bones and brought the thunder with this short handled hammer.
The cursed golden sword Tyrfing that was instrumental in allowing the outnumbered Goths to beat the Huns was built by Dvalin and Durin, who were two of these beings.
spear
Mjolnir [“myowell-neer”]
dwarves &lt;Owen&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the many women in the life of Heracles.
Deianira, the last wife of Heracles, unwittingly killed her husband by giving him the poisoned shirt of Nessus, who was one of these half-human, half-horse creatures.
After Heracles became immortal, he married this goddess of youth who was the cupbearer to the Olympian Gods. She also drew baths for her brother Ares.
As penance for killing Iphicles, Heracles had to serve this Lydian queen for a year, and some accounts indicate he wore women’s clothing during his servitude.
hippocentaur
Hebe
Omphale &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about creatures in Hindu mythology.
Shesha was the king of these creatures that were often associated with water and treasure. One of these creatures was used to churn the Ocean of Milk.
Nagas were the enemies of this avian creature, who was also their step-brother. This creature was the mount of Vishnu.
The mount of Shiva was one of these animals named Nandi. These animals are sacred in Hindu tradition.
nagas (prompt on snakes)
Garuda
bull (or cow) &lt;Duffy&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about Greek myth figures who were seemingly invincible.
This Greek warrior was nearly invincible save for his heel, which ended up being his downfall.
The giant Alcyoneus remained invincible as long as he remained in his hometown, so this man killed him by shooting him with an arrow and then dragging him out of his homeland. This man’s venom-tipped arrows also caused Chiron great pain.
This son of Gaia was invincible as long as he was touching the earth. Heracles killed him by lifting him up from the ground and then strangling him in a bear hug.
Achilles
Heracles (begrudgingly accept Hercules)
Antaeus &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about animals associated with the Norse god Odin.
After stealing the mead of poetry from the jötunn [“YOE-doon”] Gunnlöð [“gun-LOOD”], Odin fled in the form of this bird.
Odin possesses two ravens that bring him information from the whole world. Name either of them.
During Ragnarok, Odin is to be killed by one of these animals, a son of Loki named Fenrir, who also bit the hand off of the god Tyr.
eagle
Huginn or Muninn
wolf &lt;Duffy&gt;
For a time, this goddess disguised herself as an elderly woman named Doso to enter the household of Celeus. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who taught the gift of agriculture to mankind and was a central figure in the Eleusinian Mysteries alongside her daughter Persephone.
In return for Celeus’ hospitality, Demeter attempted to make Celeus’ son Demophon immortal by coating him with this substance, which was a staple foodstuff of the gods along with nectar.
Demeter cursed this man with insatiable hunger as punishment for cutting down a sacred grove of trees dedicated to Demeter. This man eventually sold his daughter off to slavery to buy more food.
Demeter (or Thesmophoros)
ambrosia
Erysichthon of Thessaly (or Aethon) &lt;Suh&gt;
According to these people, the <em>qalupalik</em> were green humanoid creatures who would kidnap little children and take them underwater. For 10 points each:
Name these people who believe in a universal life force called anirniit [“ah-neer-nit”].
This goddess tried to cling onto her father’s boat when he tried to dump her off. He then chopped off her fingers, which transformed into seals, walruses, and whales.
The Inuit goddess Malina ruled over this demain, which was also the domain of Amaterasu.
Inuit (I guess accept Eskimos, though gently tell them that’s considered pejorative)
Sedna
sun (or solar deity) &lt;Suh&gt;
For 10 points each, name some deities who sometimes took the form of a fish.
This Hindu god’s first avatar was Matsya, a fish. This “preserver” in the Trimurti had nine other avatars, including Krishna and Rama.
This god transformed into a salmon while trying to run away from the rest of the Aesir, but was caught in a net. He was then bound up under a venomous snake will not be freed until the onset of Ragnarok.
In Greek myth, this goddess and her child escaped the threat of Typhon by changing into fish that later became represented by the astrological sign Pisces.
Vishnu
Loki
Aphrodite &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name these planets from <em>Star Trek</em> that share their names with Greco-Roman figures.
Spock’s father hails from this planet, which shares its name with the Roman god of fire.
Close relatives of the Vulcans come from this planet, named after a mythical twin of Remus raised by a she-wolf. The people of this planet are known for piloting warbirds.
In the episode “Who Mourns for Adonais?”, the Enterprise approaches a planet named for this immortal son of Leda, before being grabbed by a giant green hand.
Vulcan [do not accept or prompt on “Hephaestus”]
Romulus [accept Romulans]
Pollux [accept Pollux IV] &lt;AJ/RY&gt;
This country’s mythology contains gods known as <em>kami</em>, such as Ebisu and Omoikane. For 10 points each:
Name this Asian country, where many practice the religion Shinto.
Japan’s creation myth involves two gods walking around a pillar in opposite directions and mating when they met. Name either.
Izanami died while giving birth to Kagu-tsuchi, a god of this type. Izanagi then killed him in grief, cutting his body into eight pieces.
Japan [accept Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku; accept Japanese myth and equivalents which mention Japan]
Izanagi and Izanami [accept either]
fire god [prompt on blacksmith] &lt;RY&gt;
Although the modern high schooler may not know much about sleep, for 10 points each, name some things about beds in mythology.
When this man returned home to Ithaca after a decade, he verified his identity by telling Penelope that their marriage bed could not be moved because one of its legs was an olive tree.
This bandit, whom Theseus met on his road to Athens, stretched people or cut their legs off in order to fit them on an iron bed that fit no one perfectly. Theseus killed this man by instead fitting him to the bed.
In a conflict between two Langobardic groups, Odin, husband of this deity, decided that the first group he saw at sunrise the next morning would be the victor. This goddess rotated his bed so that the Winnilier tribe would win.
Odysseus [accept Ulysses]
Procrustes [accept Prokoptas; accept Damastes]
Frigg [accept Frigga, Frija, Frea (“FREE-ya”), and Frige; do not accept “Freya” (“FRAY-ya” ) or “Freyja”] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the wives of Heracles.
This first wife of Heracles and her children were killed by Heracles, after which he was commanded to complete twelve labors as penance.
Heracles killed Megara after he was driven mad by this wife of Zeus, who interfered with Heracles’ birthright, leading to Eurystheus becoming the king of Tiryns.
Heracles died when this last wife of his gave him a tunic soaked in centaur blood, thinking that it would cure him of infidelity and not knowing that the blood was poisonous.
Megara
Hera [prompt on Juno]
Deianira &lt;RY&gt;
This god got impatient as Black God was carefully arranging constellations and threw all the remaining stars into the sky, forming the Milky Way. For 10 points each:
Name this trickster god of Native American mythology.
Coyote caused one of these events when he stole Water Buffalo’s children. Other examples include one that only Noah and the other occupants of his ark survived.
In one story, Coyote fooled a giant who was terrorizing children into thinking that he would be able to run as fast as Coyote if he allowed him to perform this action, but the giant then ran even slower than the children.
Coyote
floods [accept world floods and other obvious equivalents]
breaking his leg [accept obvious equivalents; anti-prompt on spitting on his broken leg] &lt;RY&gt;
Greek myth has an obsession with the number three. Maybe you’ll get all <em>three</em> parts, for 10 points each.
The three-headed dog Cerberus guarded this underworld, named after the god that ruled it.
This goddess was frequently described as having three faces, and sometimes depicted as having three heads: dog, serpent, and horse. This deity helped Demeter look for Persephone by lighting the way with torches.
Europa and Zeus had three children, who became the judges of the underworld. One of them was this first king of Crete, the brother of Rhadamanthus and Sarpedon.
Hades
Hecate
Minos &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the appearance of musical instruments in Hindu mythology.
A small drum called a damaru is one of the symbols of this destroyer god of the Trimurti. This god supposedly used his damaru to regulate the universe.
Symbols associated with Vishnu include one of these shells, which may be used as wind instruments. One of these shells is an important symbol in a novel by William Golding.
One Hindu deity is often depicted playing the bansuri, which is a type of this instrument. Another type of this instrument used in India is the venu.
Shiva [accept Siva]
conch shells
flutes [prompt on pipes] &lt;CL&gt;
After the Aesir-Vanir war, the god Njord and his children, Frey and Freya, were brought to Asgard. For 10 points each:
Name this realm, of which Njord was the god. Other gods of this realm are the four Dragon Kings and Poseidon.
Although Njord’s children were birthed by his sister, he married this frost giantess. However, Njord wished to live by the sea while she wanted to live in the snowy mountains, and the couple split.
Skadi was allowed to choose a husband from the Aesir, but could only do so by judging their feet. She chose the most attractive pair, thinking they were this god’s, who was later killed by a dart fashioned by a jealous Loki.
ocean [accept sea, water, and other equivalents]
Skadi
Baldr &lt;RY&gt;
Here comes the sun! For 10 points each, name some sun deities.
This Inca sun god was frequently depicted as a sun-disk, which appears on the flags of Peru and Argentina. He was married to his sister, the moon goddess Mama Killa.
Sun gods of this country’s mythology include Aten, around whom Akhenaten focused a new religion, and another named Ra.
This sun goddess birthed three women from the sword of her brother, Susano-o, but angrily claimed that they belonged to Susano-o when he upstaged her by birthing five men from her necklace.
Inti
Ancient Egypt [accept Arab Republic of Egypt]
Amaterasu &lt;RY/CL&gt;
. This figure became the first human to wound two Olympians in a single day, when he was aided by the goddess Athena. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who fought in the Trojan War.
One of the Olympians Diomedes wounded was this Greek god of war, who came onto the battlefield after Diomedes injured his lover, Aphrodite.
Diomedes managed to trade his bronze armor for the more valuable gold armor of this grandson of Bellerophon. After Diomedes revealed that his own grandfather had hosted Bellerophon, this man had his wits stolen by Zeus.
Diomedes [accept Diomede]
Ares [do not accept or prompt on “Mars”]
Glaucus &lt;RY&gt;
This goddess, the daughter of Zeus and Leto, may have accidentally killed her hunting partner Orion, the only person she ever loved due to her vow of chastity. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek goddess of the hunt, the twin sister of Apollo.
Artemis sent this beast to the realm of King Oeneus (“EE-nee-us”) when she was forgotten at a harvest sacrifice. It was hunted and killed by Meleager and Atalanta.
These figures wished to take kidnap Artemis and Hera and take them as their wives. However, Artemis transformed into a deer, and jumped between them, causing them to throw their spears and kill each other.
Artemis [do not accept or prompt on “Diana”]
Calydonian Boar [accept Aetolian Boar; prompt on boar]
the Aloadae [accept Otus and Ephialtes in either order] &lt;RY&gt;
This figure overcame many obstacles to receive a plant of immortality, only for it to be stolen by a snake. For 10 points each:
Name this friend of Enkidu and king who was taught by his immortal ancestor Utnapishtim. His namesake epic is a classic of Sumerian literature.
When Gilgamesh rejected the advances of the goddess Ishtar, she sent this animal “of Heaven” to punish him. Enkidu is sentenced to die after he kills this animal.
In the first half of The Epic of Gilgamesh, Gilgamesh and Enkidu try to kill Humbaba, the guardian of the Cedar Forest. They are aided by the god Shamash, who sends 13 of these things to bind Humbaba.
Gilgamesh
bull [accept Bull of Heaven; accept cow and other equivalents]
winds &lt;RY&gt;
Imagine how weird the “birds and the bees” talk would be if you lived in Norse myth. For 10 points each, name some things about wack origin stories.
This god was simultaneously birthed by nine mothers. He wielded the horn Gjallarhorn (“YALL-are-horn”) on the rainbow bridge Bifrost.
Loki became the mother of Sleipnir, an eight-legged one of these animals, after transforming into one. A more notable one of these animals is the Trojan one.
Buri, the grandfather of Odin, was licked into existence by this animal, who created him after three days of licking salty ice cubes to feed Ymir, the first being.
Heimdall [accept Heimdallr]
horses [accept the Trojan horse]
Audumbla &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about the appearance of musical instruments in Hindu mythology.
A small drum called a damaru is one of the symbols of this destroyer god of the Trimurti. This god supposedly used his damaru to regulate the universe.
Symbols associated with Vishnu include one of these shells, which may be used as wind instruments. One of these shells is an important symbol in a novel by William Golding.
One Hindu deity is often depicted playing the bansuri, which is a type of this instrument. Another type of this instrument used in India is the venu.
Shiva [accept Siva]
conch shells
flutes [prompt on pipes] &lt;CL&gt;
After the Aesir-Vanir war, the god Njord and his children, Frey and Freya, were brought to Asgard. For 10 points each:
Name this realm, of which Njord was the god. Other gods of this realm are the four Dragon Kings and Poseidon.
Although Njord’s children were birthed by his sister, he married this frost giantess. However, Njord wished to live by the sea while she wanted to live in the snowy mountains, and the couple split.
Skadi was allowed to choose a husband from the Aesir, but could only do so by judging their feet. She chose the most attractive pair, thinking they were this god’s, who was later killed by a dart fashioned by a jealous Loki.
ocean [accept sea, water, and other equivalents]
Skadi
Baldr &lt;RY&gt;
. This figure became the first human to wound two Olympians in a single day, when he was aided by the goddess Athena. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who fought in the Trojan War.
One of the Olympians Diomedes wounded was this Greek god of war, who came onto the battlefield after Diomedes injured his lover, Aphrodite.
Diomedes managed to trade his bronze armor for the more valuable gold armor of this grandson of Bellerophon. After Diomedes revealed that his own grandfather had hosted Bellerophon, this man had his wits stolen by Zeus.
Diomedes [accept Diomede]
Ares [do not accept or prompt on “Mars”]
Glaucus &lt;RY&gt;
This goddess, the daughter of Zeus and Leto, may have accidentally killed her hunting partner Orion, the only person she ever loved due to her vow of chastity. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek goddess of the hunt, the twin sister of Apollo.
Artemis sent this beast to the realm of King Oeneus (“EE-nee-us”) when she was forgotten at a harvest sacrifice. It was hunted and killed by Meleager and Atalanta.
These figures wished to take kidnap Artemis and Hera and take them as their wives. However, Artemis transformed into a deer, and jumped between them, causing them to throw their spears and kill each other.
Artemis [do not accept or prompt on “Diana”]
Calydonian Boar [accept Aetolian Boar; prompt on boar]
the Aloadae [accept Otus and Ephialtes in either order] &lt;RY&gt;
This figure overcame many obstacles to receive a plant of immortality, only for it to be stolen by a snake. For 10 points each:
Name this friend of Enkidu and king who was taught by his immortal ancestor Utnapishtim. His namesake epic is a classic of Sumerian literature.
When Gilgamesh rejected the advances of the goddess Ishtar, she sent this animal “of Heaven” to punish him. Enkidu is sentenced to die after he kills this animal.
In the first half of The Epic of Gilgamesh, Gilgamesh and Enkidu try to kill Humbaba, the guardian of the Cedar Forest. They are aided by the god Shamash, who sends 13 of these things to bind Humbaba.
Gilgamesh
bull [accept Bull of Heaven; accept cow and other equivalents]
winds &lt;RY&gt;
Here comes the sun! For 10 points each, name some sun deities.
This Inca sun god was frequently depicted as a sun-disk, which appears on the flags of Peru and Argentina. He was married to his sister, the moon goddess Mama Killa.
Sun gods of this country’s mythology include Aten, around whom Akhenaten focused a new religion, and another named Ra.
This sun goddess birthed three women from the sword of her brother, Susano-o, but angrily claimed that they belonged to Susano-o when he upstaged her by birthing five men from her necklace.
Inti
Ancient Egypt [accept Arab Republic of Egypt]
Amaterasu &lt;RY/CL&gt;
This man captured and sacrificed the Marathonian Bull, and then reunited with his father Aegeus after Medea failed to poison him. For 10 points each:
Name this hero of Athens who traveled to Crete to slay the Minotaur, but forgot to change his sails from black to white, causing King Aegeus to commit suicide.
Before meeting his father, Theseus traveled the dangerous land route to Athens, on which he killed this last bandit, known as the Stretcher, who had two beds and made his guests fit them.
Theseus’ best friend was this prince of the Lapiths, who joined Theseus in the hunt for the Caledonian Boar, and later tried to abduct Persephone, resulting in the two being stuck in the Underworld.
Theseus
Procrustes
Pirithous
Answer the following about the strong heroines of Euripidean tragedy. For 10 points each:
At the end of the play she appears in, this character confronts her husband Jason after killing their children, and then escapes to Athens in the chariot of the sun god Helios.
In a play set in Egypt, the brothers Castor and Polydeuces prevent king Theoclymenus from murdering his sister after this woman runs off with her husband Menelaus.
Euripides also wrote about this virtuous woman, who chose to die so that her husband Admetus could live, and was later rescued from Hades by Heracles.
Medea
Helen
Alcestis
The Greeks identified this deity with Hermes and renamed the sight of his main cult “Hermopolis.” For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian god, who counseled Horus on how to restore his left eye. He is often depicted with the head of a baboon or an ibis.
In addition to writing, medicine, and magic, Thoth is often credited with the creation of the 365-day version of this construct, replacing an earlier 360-day version.
Thoth gambled with the moon Khonsu for those extra five days so that this sky goddess could give birth to Osiris, Horus, Set, Isis, and Nephthys.
Thoth [accept Tehuti]
calendar [accept year]
Nut
Ganesha’s name means Lord of the Ganas, or lord of this deity’s attendants. Name the following for 10 points each:
Name this Hindu god, sometimes portrayed as a beggar or ascetic with a closed third eye. He has the role of the destroyer in the Trimurti.
This river flows from Shiva’s hair, according to legend. Its waters are considered the most sacred in all of Hindu mythology.
Shiva and his wife Parvati, alongside their two children, are said to reside in this mountain the Himalayas. Many pilgrims make a trek on foot around this mountain annually.
Shiva
Ganges River [or Ganga River]
Mount Kailash
Fenrir kills and consumes this god at Ragnarok, for 10 points each:
Name this Norse god who wields the spear Gungnir and rides the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. He has many sons, among them Thor.
This ancestor of all “jötnar”, or giants, was killed by Odin, and his body was used to create the nine realms. This giant lived in Ginnungagap.
This enormous world tree connects the nine realms. A dragon, Nídhöggr, pulls at this tree’s base while an eagle pulls on its top, damaging it.
Odin
Ymir
Yggdrasil
The Japanese imperial family claims to be directly descended from Amaterasu Ōmikami, one of the principal deities of Shintoism. For 10 points each:
Amaterasu is the goddess of this entity. When she withdraws into a cave, the whole world goes dark and rice can no longer be farmed.
The sun goddess was born from this god’s left eye, right after he returned from the Underworld in an attempt to retrieve Izanami.
Susanoo gave Amaterasu this sword as a reconciliation gift. Retrieved from the dead body of Yamata-no-Orochi, this sword has the power to control the wind.
the Sun
Izanagi
Kusanagi no Tsurugi [accept Grass-cutter]
According to Dante, Attila the Hun and Alexander the Great are up to their eyebrows in this river, in accordance with their violent deeds in life. For 10 points each:
Name this river of fire that, according to Plato, “coils around the earth and flows into the depths of Tartarus.”
The Phlegethon flows parallel to this river, which separates Earth from the Underworld. Greek deities frequently swore oaths upon this river.
This river of the Underworld borders Elysium and flows through the cave of Hypnos. This river is named after the goddess of forgetfulness and oblivion.
Phlegethon
Styx
Lethe
The goddess Ishtar sends the Bull of Heaven to attack this character after he rejects her. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Uruk, the protagonist of a Sumerian epic.
Gilgamesh kills the monster Humbaba in the Cedar Forest, along with the help of his best friend, this “wild man.”
After the god Aruru creates Enkidu as an uncivilized wild man, Gilgamesh sends this temple prostitute, who seduces and tames Enkidu.
Gilgamesh
Enkidu
Shamhat
Lycopolis and Cynopolis were major cult centers for this god, for 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian god associated with mummification and the afterlife, usually depicted with a canine head.
Anubis was known as the “guardian of [these objects].” He used these objects to compare hearts to a feather to determine if a soul was worthy of entering the underworld.
This war god with a canine head was worshipped from Asyut. This deity, often confused for Anubis, is likely his son.
Anubis
scales [accept balance and obvious equivalents]
Wepwawet [accept Upuaut or Ophois]
Answer the following about the Aztecs, for 10 points each:
The Aztecs spoke this language, which was common throughout central Mexico. Its Huasteca dialect is the most commonly spoken today.
The patron deity of the Aztecs is this god of the sun and war whose name means “Hummingbird of the Left.”
In order to provide sustenance to Huitzilopochtli, Aztec priests performed this act, most commonly on war prisoners and slaves.
Nahuatl
Huitzilopochtli [accept Xiuhpilli and Totec]
human sacrifice [prompt on just “sacrifice” by asking “Who?”]
Answer the following about a weapon from Arthurian legend, for 10 points each:
This legendary sword of King Arthur, often contrasted with the sword in the stone, is equipped with magical powers.
This Knight of the Round Table returned King Arthur’s famous sword to the Lady of the Lake on the wounded King Arthur’s command.
Excalibur was forged at this island, where King Arthur was taken to recover after his wounds from the Battle of Camlann.
Excalibur [or Caliburn]
Bedivere [or Bedevere]
Avalon
This creature was tricked into thinking that Odysseus’ name was “Nobody”, and he staggered around yelling that “Nobody” had hurt him. For 10 points each:
Name this Cyclops blinded by Odysseus. This Cyclops hurled stones at Odysseus and his men as they sailed away.
This deity was Polyphemus’ father. This god of the sea exacted revenge on Odysseus and his crew by sending storms and other obstacles.
Polyphemus and this man both fell in love with the sea-nymph Galatea, leading Polyphemus to kill this man by crushing him with a boulder.
Polyphemus
Poseidon
Acis
The use of the term “leucipotomy” to refer to massive hill drawings comes from one such drawing of one of these creatures in England. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures. The aforementioned 360-foot long chalk figure can be found in Uffington, and may represent a precursor to the deity Epona, who was goddess and protector of these beings.
In some accounts, this creature symbolized love, as its parents the horse and griffin were natural enemies. One of these creatures was the mount of Ruggiero in the epic Orlando Furioso, though a far more famous example is Buckbeak from the Harry Potter series.
This Shinto god’s mount was the horse Ama no Fuchigoma. In another horse-y story involving this god, he spitefully hurled a flayed horse at his sister Amaterasu’s loom.
horses (accept variations like mare)
hippogriff
Susano-o no Mikoto &lt;Owen&gt;
Historically, the art of textiles predates the formalization of Greco-Roman myths. Nevertheless, answer some Greco-Roman mythology questions about it, for 10 points each:
This goddess engaged in a weaving contest against Arachne, turning her into a spider at the contest’s end. This goddess of wisdom was born fully aged from Zeus’s head.
This god wove a golden net to trap his wife Aphrodite cheating on him with Ares, then collected the other Olympians to laugh at the entangled adulterers.
The Minyades, unlike Arachne, loved Athena and weaving so much they skipped this god’s namesake Mysteries to work at the loom. In his wrath, this god drove the sisters mad and turned their weaves into milk and nectar.
Athena
Hephaestus
Dionysus (accept Bacchus) &lt;Owen&gt;
Humans live brief lives because they descend from Sakuya-hime, a goddess of these things. For 10 points each:
Name these plants. Hyacinthus, Adonis, and Narcissus were all transformed into beautiful examples of these plants upon their death.
In the mythology of this place, the magician Math creates the beautiful Blodeuwedd out of flowers. The Mabinogion contains the core mythology of this country in Great Britain.
The hibiscus flower is sacred to Hindu deity of time and destruction, who otherwise wears a much less nice necklace of human heads. She’s an aspect of Durga, and she was worshipped by the Thuggee.
flowers (accept specific species)
Wales
Kali (Ed’s note: yes, she’s the goddess from the second Indiana Jones movie) &lt;Owen&gt;
The god of this substance resurrects from a turtle shell and is usually identified with Hun Hunahpu, the beheaded father of the Hero Twins. For 10 points each:
Name this substance governed by Cinteotl, a staple crop of many Mesoamerican peoples. It was one of the Three Sisters in America, along with squash and beans.
Sacrifice and resurrection was a staple in the worship of this Aztec god of war. Human sacrifice at Templo Mayor was dedicated to him.
Huitzilopochtli sacrificed his son Copil, and threw this body part of his on where Templo Mayor would be built in the middle of Lake Texcoco. Aztec priests in general are known for extracting this organ from people still living.
maize (accept corn)
Huitzilopochtli
heart &lt;Owen&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things related to that fruit which one Harvard quizbowler once foolishly pronounced as “pah-muh-gruh-nah-tay”:
This goddess was trapped in the underworld for part of the year after she was fed by pomegranate seeds by her abductor Hades. Her mother Demeter caused worldwide famine by looking for her during that abduction.
Side, whose name literally means “pomegranate,” was the first wife of this famous hunter. His blindness was cured after looking at the rising sun, and in one version of his death, he was killed by a giant scorpion.
A statue of this goddess’s consort Attis shows him wield a crook and a pomegranate. This Phrygian “mother goddess” was often identified with Rhea.
Persephone
Orion
Cybele &lt;Owen&gt;
Moana is a Disney cartoon and Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson might be a bit of a cartoon himself, but Maui sure is not. For 10 points each:
Like in the movie, most versions of the Polynesian god Maui give him one of these implements made from a jawbone. Maui then uses this tool to drag up the islands making up whatever nation the story is being told in.
In Hawaiian mythology, the islands don’t reach their true size until this goddess of fire and volcanoes produces even more land. This goddess resides on Mauna Kea.
Maui is married to Hina, who becomes bothered by a “long” one of these animals. Maui kills the bothersome animal and plants its corpse, from which grow the first coconut tree.
fish hook
Pele
eel (accept specific species; accept any native translations, if they can prove it) &lt;Owen&gt;
In a mockumentary about these creatures, a Norwegian prime minister mentions that power lines deter them. For 10 points each:
Name these often ugly, dumb, adversarial creatures from Scandinavian and Norse folklore. They like to reside in dark places like caves and under bridges, since direct sunlight makes them turn to stone.
This island underworld in Finnish mythology would probably qualify as one of those dark places, as the dead were forced to wander it as shadows. The bard Väinämöinen escapes it by turning into a snake.
Analogous to Tuonela in Norse mythology is this realm, the gloomy destination of those who die of mundane things like disease and old age. It was ruled by a figure of the same name and was guarded by the dog Garm.
trolls
Tuonela
Hel (accept Hela; Ed’s note: Thor: Ragnarok aside, the real figure is almost always called Hel) &lt;Owen&gt;
Very few ancient Greeks were lucky enough to be given immortality. For 10 points each:
This warrior was practically invincible, except for a fatal flaw in his heel which proved he was decidedly non-immortal.
Zeus kidnapped this Trojan prince from Mount Ida and made him the cupbearer to the gods. He replaced Hebe, who had retired to marry the immortal Heracles.
This daughter of Cadmus transformed into the immortal “white goddess” after jumping into the sea with her son Melicertes. She later helped save Odysseus’ life after a shipwreck.
Achilles
Ganymede
Ino (or Leucothea) &lt;Suh&gt;
You’ve been hired to produce the History Channel’s latest hit show on ancient astronauts. For 10 points each:
You research the book Chariots of the Gods?, which interprets sarcophagus carvings from this culture as rockets. The Hero Twins and the ball game were elements of this Mesoamerican civilization’s mythos.
You air a segment on the planet Nibiru and how it suggests that Anunnaki gods from this city were aliens. Marduk was this Middle Eastern city’s patron deity, and it’s the site of the Ishtar Gate.
For your season finale, you propose an episode on how because these people came “in dark clouds” when invading Ireland, they were actually aliens. These people were led by Nuada and Lugh against the Fomorians.
Mayans
Babylon
Tuatha Dé Danann (or Tuath Dé) &lt;Owen&gt;
In Greek mythology, the shapeshifting ability of the “Old Man of the Sea,” Proteus, eventually produced the English term “protean.” For 10 points each:
First, name this Greek king who captured Proteus, not letting go even as Proteus turned into a lion, serpent, and even water. Proteus then revealed this man’s brother Agamemnon had been murdered after returning from the Trojan War, as well as how this man could return to Sparta.
Menelaus had been returning from the Trojan War, which had been initiated after this beautiful wife of his had been kidnapped by Paris. In a twist, some sources say Paris kidnapped a fake, while the real version of this woman hid in Egypt with a different Proteus.
Another “Old Man of the Sea” named Nereus was the father of this nymph. Inheriting her father’s power, this figure shapeshifted into flames, water, and a lioness as her future husband Peleus tried to capture her.
Menelaus
Helen of Troy
Thetis &lt;Owen&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about mutilation in Norse myth:
This demonic wolf frightened the gods so much they bound him in chains, though they had to trick him by offering Tyr’s hand as a pledge to let him go later. When this creature realized the trick, he promptly bit the hand off.
This wiseman was exchanged as a prisoner in the Aesir-Vanir War, after which he was beheaded. Nicely, though, he lived on as a talking head that Odin used for advice.
At some point, Mimir tells Odin he must give up one of these body parts to drink from the Well of Urd to gain cosmic wisdom, which Odin then did.
Fenrir
Mimir (or Mim)
one of his eyes &lt;Cohen&gt;
The Cumaean Sibyl was one of these people who was prominent in Roman mytho-history. For 10 points each:
Name these “frenzied women from whose lips the god speaks.” More plainly, these people delivered the prophecies of the gods, as in the Temple of Apollo at Delphi.
The Oracle at Delphi was founded after Apollo slew a massive one of these creatures. A “Rainbow” one appears in Australian aboriginal mythology.
Classical accounts of Zeus’s Oracle at Dodona record that she interpreted prophecies by listening to the sound of this natural phenomenon, though later interpretations have marked it as the sound of windchimes instead.
oracles
serpent (accept snakes or any equivalent answers; accept Python or Rainbow Serpent)
rustling of oak leaves (accept any answer that indicates leaves making noise) &lt;Owen&gt;
In Egyptian mythology, the Duat, or underworld, is inhabited by Ra’s chaotic archrival Apep. For 10 points each:
First, name this Egyptian New Kingdom funerary text that describes the rituals and spells one can undertake to help navigate the Duat safely. It comes after the earlier Pyramid and Coffin texts.
Apep was one of these animals. Isis also created one of these animals that bit and poisoned Ra, with Isis refusing to provide the antidote unless Ra gave her his true name.
This cobra goddess represented a unified Egypt and was closely associated with the protective power of the Eye of Ra as she would curl up on Ra’s head.
The Book of the Dead
snake (or serpent; accept specific species like cobra)
Wadjet &lt;Owen&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the hippocampus–the nautical kind:
The seahorse-like hippocampus carried the chariot of this Greek god, who was god of both the sea and horses, as well as earthquakes and storms.
Besides Poseidon, Melqart, the god of the sea and trade from this culture, also rode a hippocampus as depicted on ancient coins from his city, Tyre. Cadmus was legendarily a prince of this seafaring and mercantile culture.
Hippocampi were often conflated with the decidedly less mythical dolphin. In one story, a musician with this name was rescued by dolphins after being kidnapped by pirates. An immortal horse with this name was sired by Poseidon with Demeter.
Poseidon (do not accept or prompt on “Neptune,” as he’s the Roman version)
Phoenicians (accept word forms)
Arion &lt;Owen&gt;
Even when you’re immortal, life isn’t always peachy. For 10 points each:
This god stole fire from Zeus on behalf of humans, but was punished by Zeus by having his liver pecked out by vultures. This god’s liver then cruelly grew back every day.
Only one member of this pair of twins was immortal, so they chose to trade off being alive each day after the non-immortal one died. They were also called the Dioscuri or Gemini.
This goddess managed to obtain immortality for her lover Tithonus, but forgot to get him eternal youth as well, turning him into a wrinkled mess. Eventually, she turned him into a cricket.
Prometheus
Castor and Pollux (accept names in either order; prompt on only one name)
Eos &lt;Cohen&gt;
This mythical figure kept himself awake while listening to the powerful sleeping music of Aillen (“AYE-len”) by pressing his red-hot spear to his forehead. For 10 points each:
Name this man who could gain knowledge when he put a digit to one of his teeth. He was taught by Finnegas, and his wife Sadhbh (“sa-IVE”) was once transformed into a deer and abducted by Fear Doirich.
Finn MacCool’s knowledge came from burning his thumb while cooking this fish, which ate nine hazelnuts that fell into the Well of Wisdom.
Finn MacCool is a character in the mythology of this country. Another person with ties to this country’s historical mythology is Saint Patrick.
Finn MacCool [prompt on partial, accept Fionn mac Cumhaill]
Salmon of Knowledge [prompt on salmon]
Ireland [accept Irish myth, and other obvious equivalents] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name these things about apples in mythology.
Athena gave the golden apples of Hesperides to this Greek goddess, who later gifted the apples to Hippomenes so he could use them to win the hand of Atalanta.
When this goddess, the provider of the apples that helped maintain the youth and immortality of the Norse gods, was kidnapped by a giant, Loki transformed her into a nut in order to carry her back to Asgard easily.
After this legendary man was mortally wounded in the Battle of Camlann by his son, he went to Avalon, which translates into “isle of apple trees,” to recover.
Aphrodite [do not accept “Venus”]
Idunn
King Arthur &lt;RY&gt;
. The title character of this work encounters Utnapishtim, the only survivor of a flood. For 10 points each:
Identify this Mesopotamian epic about a king of Uruk who befriends Enkidu and defeats Humbaba.
This goddess sends the Bull of Heaven to Gilgamesh as a punishment for his rejection of her. She is also the Akkadian goddess of fertility, war, sex, love, and power.
In The Epic of Gilgamesh, Gilgamesh’s mother asks this sun god for protection. This deity shares a name with the candle used to light all other candles on a menorah.
The Epic of Gilgamesh
Ishtar
Shamash &lt;CL&gt;
Alviss the dwarf was very abused during his lifetime. Answer some questions about him for 10 points each:
Alviss was killed by this Norse god. He once lost a wrestling match to a personification of Old Age, and he will kill his archenemy, the World Serpent, at Ragnarok before walking nine paces and dying.
Thor was unhappy about his daughter Thrud being promised to Alviss, so he asked Alviss questions to test his wisdom until the sun came up, which did this to the dwarf. The gaze of Medusa also performed this action.
Being a dwarf, Alviss’ homeworld would have been this dark world in Norse mythology.
Thor [accept Donar]
petrification [accept descriptions like “turn into stone”]
Svartalfheim [accept Nidavellir or Myrkheim] &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name these Greek deities pertaining to the seasons.
Commonly known as Thallo, Auxo and Carpo, these goddesses of the seasons are sisters of the Fates. Their duties include guarding the gates of Olympus and driving the motion of the constellations at night.
After Theseus and Pirithous (“PIE-roth-us”) attempted to kidnap this Greek goddess of spring from the Underworld, they were restrained on rocks at the edge of Tartarus.
This Greek goddess of grain, Persephone’s mother, causes the changes of the seasons. When Persephone lives with her, it is spring and summer, and when Persephone leaves for the underworld, it becomes fall and winter.
The Horae
Persephone [accept Kore, do not accept “Proserpina” or “Proserpine”]
Demeter [accept Sito or Thesmophoros, do not accept “Ceres”] &lt;RY&gt;
One festival honoring this god ends with many idols of him being submerged in the nearest body of water on the day of Ananta Chaturdashi. For 10 points each:
Name this deity who once won a race around the world against his brother by running around his parents, claiming that they were his whole world.
Ganesha’s head was one of this animal, after he was decapitated by his father, Shiva. Lakshmi, Indrani, and Brihaspati were often depicted riding this animal.
Ganesha broke off one of his tusks in order to write down this Hindu epic, dictated by Vyasa. The Pandava brothers win the hand of a princess in this epic when one of them shoots a mechanical fish through the eye.
Ganesha [accept Ganapati or Vinayaka]
elephant
The Mahabharata &lt;RY&gt;
Although some accounts state that this man’s father was Poseidon, others say it was Glaucus. For 10 points each:
Name this Ancient Greek hero from Corinth who slew the Solymi and, more famously, the Chimaera.
Athena helped Bellerophon capture this winged horse by giving him a golden bridle while he slept in a temple. According to some accounts, this creature was born from the head of Medusa along with his brother Chrysaor.
This specific creature led to Bellerophon’s downfall by biting Pegasus as Bellerophon tried to use his mount to reach Mount Olympus. Socrates was often equated with this animal.
Bellerophon [accept Bellerophontes]
Pegasus
gadfly [prompt on fly] &lt;LT&gt;
This god owns ravens named Huginn and Muninn which bring him information throughout the Nine Worlds. For 10 points each:
Name this deity, the leader of the Norse gods and discoverer of the runes. He is destined to be consumed by Fenrir, a monstrous wolf, at Ragnarok.
Because Fenrir was prophesied to cause trouble to the gods and eventually kill Odin, this Norse god of law and namesake of Tuesday, gave up his right hand in order to keep Fenrir bound by the rope Gleipnir.
Odin’s death will be avenged by this Aesir, who killed Fenrir by stretching his jaws apart until the wolf was torn in half. This god has a shoe on one foot made up of all shoe scraps that have been discarded throughout time.
Odin [accept Wotan]
Tyr [accept Tiwaz, Tius, Tio, Tiw, and Mars Thinscsus]
Vidar [accept Vithar] &lt;RY&gt;
T​he more heads, the better! For 10 points each, name these things about mythological creatures with more than one head.
The Chimera had the head of a lion, as well as a tail that some sources say had a snake's head at its end. Its third head was one of this animal, coming from the middle of its back.
The nine-headed bird was an early form of the phoenix in this nation's mythology. This country's mythology also includes characters like Pangu and Sun Wukong.
This white elephant belonging to Indra had three heads and was the king of all elephants. It is able to suck up the waters of the underworld and spray them into the clouds.
goat
China
Airavata &lt;RY&gt;
<em>Hawaiki</em> (“ha-WAI-ki”) refers to the ancestral homeland of the Polynesian people. Answer some questions about places named after it! For 10 points each:
In Maori stories, Hawaiki can name this mythological location. In Greek mythology, Hades rules over this land of darkness with regions including Elysium and Tartarus.
In Hawaii, which is named after Hawaiki, the ancestral homeland is obviously not also called Hawaiki but rather a cognate of this island from which the Hawaiians migrated. It is the largest island in French Polynesia and contains its capital, Pape’ete (“pa-pe-EH-te).
In this island group, “Hiva,” rather than “Hawaiki,” is the word for the ancestral home, and it names multiple islands in this archipelago. This archipelago is the northeasternmost of the five archipelagos of French Polynesia and was discovered by Europeans on Álvaro de Mendaña’s (“men-DAN-ya”) second voyage.
underworld [or land of the dead]
Tahiti
Marquesas &lt;DM&gt;
Flowers seem​ to have a certain obsession with sprouting from dead people in Greek mythology. Name some things about the dead people for 10 points each:
This man was killed by Apollo in a contest of love. Zephyrus, in an act of jealousy, caused a discus thrown by Apollo to blow off course and strike this man, whose blood produced his namesake flower.
Adonis, whose blood was mixed with nectar by his lover Aphrodite to make the flower anemone, was killed by this boar, named after a son of Apollo who had spied on Aphrodite bathing. This boar was later captured by Heracles for his fourth labor, in some accounts.
This nymph, who was cursed by Hera to repeat the last thing anyone had said, mourned the death of Narcissus after he jumped into a lake and turned into his namesake flower.
Hyacinth [accept Hyacinthus]
Erymanthian Boar
Echo &lt;RY&gt;
This god was typically worshipped alongside his consort Sekhmet, and is said to have created the world with a thought. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian god of craftsmen and architects that is typically depicted as a green-skinned mummy wearing a blue skullcap. The Apis bull was a symbol of this god.
Ptah was the primary god of this Egyptian city, the capital of the Old Kingdom, which was also notable for its statues of Rameses II.
Ptah was invoked during a ceremony of the dead in which this body part was opened because this body part was necessary for the dead to consume food and drink in the afterlife.
Ptah
Memphis
mouth &lt;RY&gt;
This man forgot to replace his black sails with white ones, causing his father Aegeus (“a-JEE-us”) to jump into the ocean and drown. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who was given a ball of string by Ariadne to help him kill the Minotaur. He returned the favor by abandoning Ariadne on an island.
Aegeus bestowed this item and a pair of sandals to Theseus in his youth. When Theseus was about to drink wine poisoned by Medea, Theseus put this item on the table, causing Aegeus to recognize him and knock the poisoned chalice away.
On his trip to Athens to meet his father, Theseus encountered and killed six bandits in imitation of Heracles, one of which was this man. This man killed his victims by tying them in between two bent trees and letting them go, tearing them in half.
Theseus
sword [prompt on weapon]
Sinis [accept Pityocamptes] &lt;RY&gt;
This figure’s daughter Pyrrha and son-in-law Deucalion were the only survivors of the great flood that ended the Bronze Age. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical first woman who was given a “shameful mind and deceitful nature” by Hermes, among other attributes which all the Olympians gave her.
Pandora was sent to earth by Zeus in order to plague it with the evils inside her box because this Titan gave mankind fire. This figure cautioned Epimetheus not to accept gifts from Zeus, but Epimetheus still took Pandora as his wife.
This figure gave up his immortality in order to free Prometheus in some sources, after Prometheus was restrained to a rock and his liver was eaten every day by an eagle.
Pandora
Prometheus
Chiron &lt;RY&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about doors and gates in mythology.
This hall in Asgard has 540 doors, each of which 800 men can go through at once, allowing its inhabitants to all exit from this place immediately to fight.
This Roman god of gates and doorways has two faces, one that looks to the future and one to the past. A temple to this god in the Forum had its doors closed in times of peace and open during wartime.
In Greek mythology, dreams are said to come through either of two doors, with one meaning that the dream is false, and the other that the dream will come true. Name either of the two materials the doors are made of.
Valhalla
Janus [accept Yanus]
ivory and horn [accept either underlined portion] &lt;RY&gt;
This figure took the sinews of Zeus, requiring Hermes to steal them back. For 10 points each:
Name this fearsome giant who challenged Zeus to be ultimate ruler. Zeus finally defeated him by flattening him with Mount Etna.
Typhon was birthed directly from this abyss in Hades, where he was later imprisoned as well. Among the poor souls punished here were Sisyphus and Tantalus.
With Echidna, Typhon also birthed many monsters, including a “Crommyonian” one of these animals that terrorized the countryside until Theseus killed it.
Typhon
Tartarus
sow (prompt on pig and equivalents, but do not accept or prompt on “boar”)
The name for this mytheme in comparative mythology is <em>catabasis</em>. For 10 points each:
Describe this common trope in world mythology. Inanna discards seven pieces of clothing while doing this action, and Lemminkainen’s mother does this action by going to Tuonela.
This god visits the underworld sort-of unwillingly after being murdered by his brother Set, though his subsequent resurrection by his wife Isis makes the story another example of catabasis.
This Welsh king traded places with the king of the Welsh underworld Annwn [“annuin”] for a year and a day. This father to Pryderi names the first branch of the Mabinogion.
the descent into the underworld (accep obvious synonyms for “descent” and “underworld,” like just visiting hell; accept things about the return as well, like returning from the underworld; prompt on just “the descent”)
Osiris
Pwyll [“puill”] Pen Annwn (accept Pwyll Pendefig Dyfed or Pwyll, Prince of Dyfed)
The amazing adventures of many Greek heroes are often followed by much more pitiful deaths. For 10 points each:
This hero stole the Golden Fleece with the rest of the Argonauts, but died old and lonely while sitting on the beach after a piece of the rotting Argo fell on him.
This man ventured far and wide to find his sister Europa. However, his killing of a sacred dragon haunted him with misfortune until he was eventually turned into a snake to slither out the rest of his days.
Many years after the Odyssey, this son of Odysseus and Circe unknowingly killed Odysseus with a stingray spine. According to Hyginus, this man later had the son Italus with Penelope.
Jason
Cadmus
Telegonus (accept the Telegony)
Demonstrate your sharp wit by slicing through this quizbowl bonus. For 10 points each:
The Lady of the Lake handed King Arthur this sword, which Bedivere was tasked with returning upon Arthur’s death. However, as Merlin pointed out, its sheath was much more valuable as it prevented blood-loss.
This figure used the sword Gram to slay the dragon Fafnir. This figure had inherited Gram from his father Sigmund, who’d pulled it from the tree Barnstokkr, and in another story, he meets the Valkyrie Brynhildr.
The kami Susano’o found this sword inside the dragon Orochi. It obtained its name after Prince Yamato Takeru used it to save himself while trapped in a field blazing on fire.
Excalibur (accept Caliburn; Ed’s note: repressed peasants and watery tarts aside, don’t confuse Excalibur with the Sword in the Stone)
Sigurd (accept Siegfried or Sivard Snarensven(d))
Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi (accept Grasscutter)
To avoid dying out, these people visited the all-male Gargareans. For 10 points each:
Name these mythical Greek warrior women. In some accounts, they cut off their left breast to improve their skill with the bow and arrow.
This man briefly fought the Amazons when they tried to invade Lycia. In a far more notable tale, this man used Pegasus and a lead block on a spear to kill the Chimera.
Theseus once abducted this Amazon while Heracles tried to obtain the girdle of her sister. Theseus then had the child Hippolytus [“hip-POL-uh-tus”] with this woman, who later died during the Attic war.
Amazons
Bellerophon
Antiope [“an-TIE-uh-pee”]
The archer Feng Meng beats his mentor Yi to death with a club made from a tree of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name this fruit. In Japanese folklore, the boy Momotaro is discovered floating down a river in one of these objects.
While fleeing hell from his wife Izanami, this Japanese kami hurled several peaches at the thunder gods chasing him. In the purification ritual afterwards, this god produced his children Amaterasu and Susano’o.
A king of these animals jealously stole the Peaches of Immortality from the various royal divinities in Chinese mythology. In Journey to the West, the same king of these animals serves as bodyguard to a priest.
peaches
Izanagi-no-mikoto (or Izanagi-no-Okami)
monkey
For 10 points each, name these things related to cattle and the Greek mythologies surrounding those who take them:
The Tenth Labor of this hero was to steal the Cattle of Geryon. Other labors of this super-strong hero included killing the Hydra and capturing Cerberus. You can give the Greek or Roman name.
This pair of twins fought with Idas and Lynceus after attempting a cattle raid on the latter. They were known as the Dioscuri in Greek, and the Gemini in Latin.
Going back to Heracles, Heracles briefly went mad after being falsely accused of stealing some cattle actually taken by this career thief. This figure was both the son of Hermes and the grandfather of Odysseus.
Heracles (accept Hercules)
Castor and Pollux (prompt on partial; accept Polydeuces in place of Pollux; prompt on Tyndaridae)
Autolycus
For 10 points each, get happy by answering questions about the name Hapi:
Hapi was the name of the god symbolizing the flooding of this Egyptian river. Hapi also symbolized fertility because of the annual fertile flooding of this river.
Hapi was also one of the four sons of Horus symbolized by these storage containers used in mummification. The one of these objects representing Hapi stored the lungs of the deceased.
Hapis, or “hapi-ankh,” was an alternate name for the Apis bull who acted as herald for this god. He was usually shown as a green mummy, and was the chief god of Memphis.
Nile
canopic jars
Ptah
Vase paintings often show this goddess inflicting the spirit of madness Lyssa upon a pack of dogs. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess whom Actaeon saw bathing naked. This goddess then turned Actaeon into a stag, to be eaten by his own hunting dogs.
Artemis was usually paired with this twin brother of hers. Both Artemis and this god were birthed by Leto on the island of Delos.
Zeus disguised himself as Artemis to seduce this figure, who then gave birth to Arcas. Hera then angrily turned this person into a wild beast, and Arcas later unknowingly killed her while hunting.
Artemis (accept Diana)
Apollo
Callisto
A giantess named Hyrokkin shows up to this event riding a wolf with snakes as her reins. For 10 points each:
Name this event from Norse mythology. For no apparent reason, Thor kills the dwarf Litr at this event by kicking him into a fire.
Baldr died after his brother Hodr shoots him with a dart made from this plant, the only one from which Frigg did not extract an oath to not harm Baldr. Cutting this plant from an oak tree is an important Druid ritual.
To be fair, all the gods had been throwing darts for fun at Baldr, and this trickster god maliciously gave the blind Hodr the mistletoe dart. This god’s other antics include fathering Fenrir and stealing the Golden Apples.
the funeral of Baldr (prompt on partial answer; do not accept or prompt on “the burial of Baldr” since he is ceremonially burned, not buried)
mistletoe (or Viscum album)
Loki
A collection of these things is owned by the sky god Nyame. For 10 points each:
Name these things. To obtain a box full of these things, one character brought to Nyame Onini the python, Osebo the leopard, the Mmoboro hornets, and Mmotia the fairy.
This trickster figure from Ashanti mythology successfully completed Nyame’s tasks and won the box of stories. He most often appears in the form of a spider.
Anansi captures the Mmoboro hornets by telling them that this weather phenomenon is approaching. Native Americans in the American Southwest often did special “dances” to bring this form of precipitation.
stories (accept synonyms like tales)
Anansi (or Kwaku Ananse; or Anansy; or Aunt Nancy)
rain
You’ve considered buying your date a flower, yes … but what about turning into one? For 10 points each:
After rejecting Echo, this guy fell in love with his own reflection in a pond, leaving his body to become his namesake flower. This figure thus names the word for people who generally just love themselves.
Following a competition over him by Persephone and Aphrodite, this beautiful youth was gored by a boar. Aphrodite responded by creating his namesake flower, a blood-red anemone.
This nymph ratted out Helios’s affair with Leucothea, then sat and pined for Helios until she became a heliotrope. Modern versions usually have this nymph turning into a sunflower instead.
Narcissus (accept narcissists, I guess, since it coincidentally sounds the same)
Adonis
Clytie
War! What is it good for? Well, why don’t you ask your local war deity. For 10 points each:
This war god was the father of Romulus and Remus in Roman mythology. He known as Ares to the Greeks.
The triple goddess of the Morrigan is sometimes considered a war goddess from the culture of this modern day country. Cuchulainn and the Ulster Cycle also originate from this country.
Perun was a god of these peoples at least partially associated with war, but more prominently was a thunder god and the chief of the pantheon. Other gods in this system included Veles and Svarog.
Mars
Ireland (or Eire)
Slavic (anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on Russians or Poles or Czechs or really, citizens of any country that was at one point part of the Soviet Union)
In the <em>Prose Edda</em>, this god is said to be born of nine mothers. For 10 points each:
Name this Norse god, a watchman who has golden teeth and guards the bridge Bifrost.
Heimdall will blow the Gjallarhorn to mark the start of this world-ending event in Norse mythology. Most of the gods will die during this battle, though the humans Lif and Lifthrasir survive.
Heimdall is also said to have retrieved Freyr’s necklace Brisingamen by fighting its thief at Singasteinn while in the form of this animal.
Heimdallr (or Rig; or Hallinskidi; or Gullintanni; or Vindhler)
Ragnarök (or Ragnarøkkr)
seals (or pinnipeds)
Not all musical instruments are of mortal invention. For 10 points each:
After the nymph Syrinx was transformed into reeds to avoid the lusty advances of Pan, Pan fashioned those reeds into this instrument, which now bears his name. It consists of a group of differently lengthed tube.
The very first day Hermes was born, he invented this instrument using a turtleshell. Hermes then gifted it to an irate Apollo he’d stolen from, who now uses it as his signature instrument.
A bit further north, the Finnish mage Väinämöinen created the first of these instruments from the jawbone of a pike and horsehair. He made the second of these string instruments from birch and a maiden’s hair.
panpipes (accept pan flutes)
lyre (or lyra)
kantele (or harppu)
Answer some questions about gods of intemperate weather, for 10 points each.
This Vedic god of storms wields a thunderbolt from his home atop Mount Meru. He rides the white elephant Airavata and slew the serpent Vritra.
This Norse god controls thunder and attacks his enemies with his hammer, Mjolnir.
This Aztec rain god was the husband of Chalchiutlicue and required child sacrifices before he would unleash his waters. He rules over the drowned in Mictlan.
Indra
Thor
Tlaloc
Agamemnon and Menelaus had many interesting ancestors. For 10 points each:
This ancestor of Agamemnon chopped up his son and served him to the gods. He was punished in the underworld by temptations from an unreachable fruit tree and stream.
This son of Tantalus got reassembled after the indignant gods noticed, but not before Demeter took a bite out of his shoulder.
This son of Pelops chopped up his brother's children and fed them to him. He gives his name to the ill-fated royal house of Mycenae.
Tantalus
 Pelops
Atreus
Identify some facts about deities of undignified things, for 10 points each.
This modern-day nation's indigenous Innu people paid homage to Matshishkapeu, a fart god who cursed the Caribou Master with constipation. Other gods from this non-US country include Sedna, a sea-goddess of the Inuit.
Cloacina, an aspect of Venus, was the Roman goddess of these entities, one of which was the Cloaca Maxima.
Uke Mochi, one of these Japanese Shinto spirits, was the deity of food until she vomited up some surf and turf and rice to give Tsukuyomi a feast. He was so disgusted that he killed her.
Canada
 sewers [accept drainage or other equivalents; do not prompt on "aqueduct;" do not prompt on "toilet"]
kami
Anu created the four winds to please this god, who used them to battle Tiamat before killing her by piercing her belly with an arrow. For 10 points each:
Identify this god, the son of Ea and Damkina, who slays Kingu and the aforementioned Tiamat en route to becoming the top dog among gods, as detailed in the Enuma Elish.
Marduk is the chief god of this Mesopotamian city's pantheon. Esagila, a ziggurat that served as the temple of Marduk, was constructed by the other gods as the first building of this city.
By defeating Kingu, Marduk gained control over this object inscribed with cuneiform writing. It embodies ultimate power over the universe and had been given by Tiamat to Kingu.
Marduk
Babylon
Tablet of Destinies [or Tablet of Destiny] 
Poor Trojans! The gods keep on kidnapping them for lovers. For 10 points each:
This god replaced his cupbearer Hebe with Ganymede, whom he had abducted in the form of an eagle.
This goddess of dawn ended up with a cicada for a husband after granting Tithonus of Troy immortality but forgetting to also give him eternal youth.
After killing her husband Priam and son Astyanax, this Greek kidnapped Andromache, though that was more as a spoil of war than as a lover. This man was also known as Pyrrhus.
Zeus
Eos
Neoptolemus
The Laughing One, one of the seven Gods of Fortune from this country, grew bones at the age of three. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Its religion of Shinto reveres naturalistic spirits known as kami.
These malevolent spirits frequently occupy rivers. They are generally turtle-like in appearance, and they lose their power if the water in the plate on their head is spilled.
Kappa are examples of this broader class of evil Japanese spirits. They include the scythe-wielding, red-faced, long-nosed Tengu and the Rokurokubi, women with stretchy, elongated necks.
Japan (or Nippon)
Kappa (Editor’s note: *Bible Thump*)
Yokai
This god created the “House of the Universe” that was dedicated to Inanna. For 10 points each:
Name this chief god of the Babylonian pantheon. The Enuma Elish describes his defeat of Tiamat.
In the Enuma Elish, Marduk retrieves these items from the dead body of Kingu, who wore them as a breastplate.
Marduk was also responsible for killing the bird-like monster Anzu. Anzu might have inspired this other monster’s appearance in Greek mythology, in which this monster was slain by Bellerophon.
Bel Marduk
Tablets of Destiny
Chimera
Name these femme fatales of Greek mythology, for 10 points each:
These figures engaged in a singing competition with the Muses, though their more typical past time was luring enchanted sailors to their deaths.
These bird-like monsters pestered the prophet Phineas until he was rescued by the Argonauts. These creatures were responsible for delivering the evil to the Furies.
This woman was the mistress of Zeus before Hera cursed her to devour her children. She is typically depicted as half-serpent, and in turn gives her name to a race of half-snake, half-humans.
Sirens
Harpies (or Harpy)
Lamia
Járngreipr, or “iron grippers,” had to be used when handling this object. For 10 points each:
Name this mighty hammer wielded by Thor. Its handle is short because a gadfly stung the dwarf Brokkr while he was forging it.
After the giant Thrym steals Mjölnir, Thor performs this action to trick Thrym and get the hammer back. In a Greek story, Achilles is disguised from entering the Trojan War when he does this.
Dwarves also forged this Earth goddess a headdress of golden hair after Loki cut off her hair as another of his typical practical jokes.
Mjölnir (Ed’s note: But is the elevator mighty?)
crossdressing as a woman (accept obvious equivalents; accept “dressing as Freya” or “dressing as Pyrrha”)
Sif (prompt on things like “Thor’s wife”)
This deity rides the white elephant Airavata. For 10 points each:
Name this god, the ex-chief of the Devas. This god releases the world’s floods by defeating the serpent Vritra.
Indra wields Vajra, a weapon of this type. In Greek mythology, the Cyclopes forge a weapon of this kind in the war against the Titans.
Indra once struck this figure on the jaw after this figure tried to eat the sun, believing it to be a mango.
Indra (accept Śakra)
thunderbolt (or lightningbolt; accept anything that sort of mentions thunder or lightning)
Hanuman
This location is part of the larger realm of Niflheim. For 10 points each:
Name this realm, the Norse underworld. It shares its name with the Norse goddess who rules it, and is derived from the same root and pronunciation as the modern English world for Judeo-Christian underworld.
In one story the goddess Hel refuses to let this god of light leave Hel unless all the living and dead cry for him. This god had died after Loki tricked the blind Hoder into killing this god with mistletoe.
Keeping with the theme of the reanimated dead, these Norse creatures were animated corpses capable of growing in size and often guarding treasure. Corpse doors were used to lure them back to their graves.
Helheim (I don’t really know how you would tell the difference, but accept hell)
Baldr (or Balder or Baldur)
draugr (or draugar)
The spider god Iktomi is an example of this kind of figure. For 10 points each:
Name these mischievous figures from Native American folklore, who can vary from helpful to downright annoying. Raven and Crow are examples of these figures.
This trickster was responsible for creating people from a ball of mud. Sometimes known as “Old Man,” this animal showed his more heroic side by defeating the Thunderbird in one story.
In another story, the Thunderbird drops one of these animals from the sky to the earth. In an Inuit tale, Raven discovers a lost girl by finding one of these animals.
trickster gods
Coyote
whale (accept specific varieties; Raven discovers the girl inside the whale’s belly)
The various progeny of this god became the different classes of mankind. For 10 points each:
Name this watchman of the Norse gods. He has nine mothers and gold teeth.
Heimdall watches over Bifrost, a bridge made of this colorful phenomenon. In Greek myth, Iris is the goddess of this phenomenon.
Heimdallr turned into one of these animals to fight Loki and retrieve Freya’s golden necklace. In Irish myth, Selkies wore the skin of these animals.
Heimdallr
rainbow
seals
For spring break, you and your friends decide to go on a trip to the Greek Underworld. For 10 points each:
To get in, you and your friends have to first pay your admission fee to this boatman who will ferry you over the River Styx.
After you find your drachmas, you decide you want to see some famous heroes like Anchises, Achilles, and Ajax. As a result, you would travel to this joyful place ruled over by Rhadamanthys and Europa.
One of your friends recently broke up with her boyfriend, so you take her to this principal river of Tartarus. This river of woe was said to be a son of Helios who had been relegated to the Underworld after backing the Titans.
Charon
Elysium (or Elysian Fields)
Acheron
Name some things related to the warrior goddess Sekhmet, for 10 points each:
Sekhmet was the wrathful personification of this body part of Ra. One of these body parts belonging to Horus was also known as the “wadjet” and was frequently used as a protective amulet.
Sekhmet was also seen as an aspect of this more peaceful Egyptian goddess. This goddess was typically associated with cows, as well as love and motherhood.
Both Sekhmet and Hathor possessed on their crowns this symbol of a rearing cobra. Frequently paired with a solar disk, it usually adorned the crowns of pharaohs.
eyes
Hathor
uraeus
A 2015 paper translates 20 additional verses of this epic that were discovered in 2011. For 10 points each:
Name this Babylonian epic in which the title king of Uruk journeys to find a source of immortality after his friend Enkidu is killed.
While searching for the source of immortality, Gilgamesh meets Utnapishtim, a survivor of one of these disastrous events.
The 20 additional lines describe Gilgamesh and Enkidu’s experience killing the beast Humbaba in this location. After killing Humbaba, Enkidu worries that they will turn this location “[to] a wasteland.”
Epic of Gilgamesh
flood (accept synonyms like great flood or great deluge)
Cedar Forest (prompt on “forest”)
Greek heroes often had strained relationship with their daddies. For 10 points each:
This future ruler of Thebes unknowingly murdered his father in a scuffle at a crossroads. He later killed himself after discovering he had also married his mother.
Aegeus jumped into his self-named sea when this man forgot to raise white sails on his voyage home from Crete.
At Larissa, King Acrisius of Argos was slain by his son Perseus in this manner.
Oedipus
Theseus
getting hit in the head by a discus (accept obvious equivalents)
Zeus may have been born in the Psychro Cave on this island. For 10 points each:
Name this island where Minos built an intricate labyrinth to house the Minotaur.
The Paximadia islands just south of Crete are claimed as one birthplace for this pair of gods. Leto was mother to these gods, and in one story, one of these gods tricked the other into killing Orion.
This giant automaton protected Crete until Medea killed him by dislodging a nail in this figure’s ankle that plugged the golden ichor in his body.
Crete
Artemis and Apollo (prompt on partial answer)
Talos
Answer the following about swans in mythology. For 10 points each:
In this Finnish epic, Väinämöinen sees a swan in the Tuoni River while traveling through the underworld Tuonela. According to this text, any killer of a swan would immediately die.
According to the Iliad, this wife of Menelaus and lover of Paris was born from the union of Leda and Zeus in the form of swans.
In these Norse mythological texts, two swan-maidens drink from the Well of Urd in Asgard and are turned white from its water. These compilations include the Prose and Poetic texts.
The Kalevala
Helen of Troy [or Helen of Sparta]
Eddas [or Eddur] &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
This god married Daksha’s youngest 27 daughters, who represent the 27 constellations. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu moon god.
Parvati cursed Chandra after he laughed at the clumsiness of this elephant-headed son of hers. It is now considered bad luck for several years if one looks at the moon on this god’s birthday.
After he looked at the moon on Ganesha’s birthday, Krishna was falsely accused of stealing a gem. He found it in a cave home to Jambavan, the bear king who helped find Sita, the wife of this seventh avatar of Vishnu.
Chandra [or Candra]
Ganesha [accept Ganapati or Vinayaka or Vigneshwar]
Rama [accept Ram or Raghava] &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
Name some things about the funeral games of Patroclus. For 10 points each:
Patroclus is killed by Hector after switching armor with Achilles during this war. The events of this war are recounted in The Iliad.
This man wins the chariot race of Patroclus’ funeral games. Another mythological figure with this name owns a group of man-eating horses.
Teucer and Meriones compete in this contest during the funeral games that Teucer loses after forgetting to invoke Apollo. Another figure in the Trojan War, Philoctetes, was known for his skill in this activity.
the Trojan War [or Siege of Troy]
Diomedes
archery &lt;ES Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about the mythological history of Corinth. For 10 points each:
This Greek hero, the leader of the Argonauts, abandoned his wife Medea in Corinth.
A king of Corinth of this name was burned to death after he blessed the marriage of his daughter and Jason. A Theban king of this name was both Oedipus’s brother-in-law and uncle.
After the Corinthian poet Arion prayed to Apollo to save him from pirates, one of these animals carried him to safety. In another tale, Dionysus turned some pirates into these animals after they kidnapped him.
Jason
Creon
dolphins &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
Answer the following about the birth of Romulus and Remus. For 10 points each:
This daughter of Numitor was the mother of Romulus and Remus. She was imprisoned after her claims that Ares fathered the twins were not believed.
After Rhea Silvia was imprisoned, one of these animals raised Romulus and Remus until their discovery by the farmer Faustulus. The Roman shepherd god Lupercus took the form of this animal.
Rhea Silvia was forced to become one of these priestesses of the Roman goddess of the hearth. She was imprisoned because she had taken a mandatory vow of chastity prior to the birth of Romulus and Remus.
Rhea Silvia
Capitoline she-wolf [accept lupa or lupus]
Vestal Virgin [accept Vestals or Vestales; prompt on “Vesta”] &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
These creatures could apparently turn into humans by tilting their heads backwards. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary creature from Native American myth that can summon lightning with the flap of a wing.
In the mythology of this country, bird-demons called tengu, such as the one born from the spit of Susano’o, were considered both terribly violent fiends and protective nature spirits.
This Greek titan was punished for his “trick at Mecone” by having an Aethon eagle devour his liver every day.
thunderbird [prompt on “bird”]
Japan
Prometheus &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
In one story, this god infiltrates a tribal chieftain’s hut by being born from the chieftain’s daughter. For 10 points each:
Name this trickster god from Native American mythology. This bird was turned black from the fire of an angry shaman.
After the death of this Irish hero of the Ulster Cycle and defeater of Queen Medb, the goddess An Morrigan perches upon his shoulder in the form of a raven.
Two ravens, Huginn and Muninn, serve as this Norse god’s eyes and ears. Each day, they fly out to Midgard and report back to this god’s seat of Hlidskjalf.
Raven
Cú Chulainn [accept Cú Chulaind or Cúchulainn or Cuhullin or Sétanta]
Odin [or Odeen; or Wóden; or Wuoden; or Wuotan; or Wodan] &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
This woman enchants Merlin and raises Lancelot after the death of his father. For 10 points each:
Name this Queen of Avalon who gives a notable sword to a legendary British king.
That British king is this convener of the Knights of the Round Table and wielder of Excalibur.
In some accounts, Merlin fell in love with the Lady of the Lake due to the enchantment of this Roman goddess of chastity. She is often depicted wearing a crescent-moon-shaped diadem.
Lady of the Lake [accept Viviane, Nimue, or Elaine]
King Arthur Pendragon [accept either underlined name]
Diana [do not accept “Artemis”] &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
Odysseus died of grief after hearing that this man killed his mother-in-law Circe. For 10 points each:
Name this husband of Cassiphone and of son of Odysseus. He names the first four books of the Odyssey.
The first person to see Odysseus after his return is Eumaeus, a lowly guy with this profession.
The only being besides Telemachus to recognize Odysseus upon his return is this loyal dog of his. It shares its name with the birth city of Perseus.
Telemachus
swineherd [or anything indicating someone who herds or takes care of pigs]
Argos &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
Answer some questions about golden apples in mythology. For 10 points each:
This Norse god tricked Idunn into leaving Asgard with her golden apples so that she gets kidnapped by Thjazi. In a non-apple related instance of trickery, he tricked Hodur into killing his brother Baldr.
This Greek heroine lost a foot race after being distracted by golden apples. She then had to marry the winner of that race, Hippomenes.
Heracles’ 11th labor was to steal the golden apples from the garden of the Hesperides, where they were guarded by this dragon.
Loki Laufeyjarson [or Loptr]
Atalanta
Ladon &lt;ES Mythology&gt;
According to some sources, this god healed Osiris after he was killed by Set. For 10 points each:
Name this crocodile-headed Egyptian god of the Nile.
Sobek gathered the four sons of this falcon-headed son of Osiris in a net after they were born.
As the god of Truth, Horus upheld this concept, symbolized as a goddess. Her feather was weighed against dead souls to determine whether they would be given salvation or devoured by the lioness Ammit.
Sobek [or Sebek; or Sobk]
Horus
Ma’at &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
In Māori myth, Hine-nui-te-pō cuts this person in half, making all humans mortal. For 10 points each:
Name this Polynesian folk hero who, in one account, accidentally pulls up Hawai‘i when he thinks he has a big catch on the end of his fishhook.
In one story, Māui lassoes the legs of this astronomical body using his sister’s hair. Helios is the Greek personification of this object.
Give the name of either of Helios’s sisters. One was the goddess of the moon, while the other was a goddess of dawn.
Māui
the Sun [or Sol]
Selene OR Eos &lt;AP Mythology&gt;
Answer some questions about underworlds in mythology. For 10 points each:
This Mayan underworld ruled by twelve gods includes locations like the Jaguar House and the Razor House.
Theseus and Pirithous were trapped by snakes after trying to kidnap Persephone, the wife of this Greek god of the underworld.
This Shinto god went to Yomi in an attempt to retrieve his wife after the birth of their son Kagu-tsuchi killed her, but fled when he saw her rotting maggot-filled body.
Xibalba
Hades
Izanagi-no-Mikoto &lt;ES Mythology&gt;
Name some things about the importance of the four directions in mythology. For 10 points each:
The Four Symbols of the cardinal directions are members of this country’s myth system. Examples include the Black Tortoise, Xuan Wu, and the White Tiger, Baihu.
The four winds of the cardinal directions, or the Anemoi in Greek mythology, were ruled by this king of the winds. He once gave a bag of winds to send Odysseus home, which instead drove him off course.
This Titan, a lord of the dawn, also represented the east. He was part of a group of four Titan brothers who represented the directions and fathered Helios, the primordial sun god.
China
Aeolus
Hyperion &lt;JK&gt;
This goddess went into hiding in the cave Ama-no-Iwato because a flayed horse was thrown at her. For 10 points each:
Name this sun deity in Shinto mythology. The Emperors of Japan are considered to be direct descendents of her.
The thrower of the flayed horse was this brother of Amaterasu. He possesses a sword whose name means “grass-cutter,” which he won from killing the serpent Orochi.
Susano’o and Amaterasu were also siblings of this moon god. When Uke Mochi vomited up a meal of rice and game for a feast, this god killed her out of disgust.
Amaterasu-no-kami
Susano’o-no-mikoto
Tsukuyomi-no-Mikoto &lt;JK&gt;
Athena’s olive tree was declared superior to this god’s salt, so she was declared the patron god of Athens instead of him. For 10 points each:
Name this Greek god of the sea and earthquakes. He sought revenge on Odysseus for killing his son, the cyclops Polyphemus.
A king with legs made out of these animals judged Poseidon's saltwater spring to be useless. The bottom half of Typhon and the tail of the Chimera were also this type of animal.
In the early Bronze age, Poseidon was a chief deity of this city, which was allegedly founded when dragon’s teeth were sown at a place where a cow had sat down.
Poseidon
snake [accept serpent]
Thebes &lt;JK/AT&gt;
This god was expected to return to civilization while riding on a raft made of serpents, leading the Aztecs to identify Hernán Cortés as this god upon his arrival in the New World. For 10 points each:
Name this mesoamerican Feathered Serpent deity. According to the Aztecs, he was the creator of mankind.
The counterpart to and brother of Quetzalcoatl is this god of storms with reversed feet. He has the head of a dog and guides souls to Mictlan, the underworld.
When Quetzalcoatl was tricked by Tezcatlipoca into sleeping with a priestess, he immolated himself in shame, leaving this body part to become the morning star.
Quetzalcoatl
Xolotl
heart &lt;JK&gt;
A figure from Celtic mythology who had a dangerous one of these body parts covered it with seven cloaks. For 10 points each:
Name this body part, with which Balor the Fomorian was able to kill whole armies when opened.
The wadjet eye, which Egyptian sailors painted on their ships for safe passage, is also known as the “Eye of” this falcon-headed Egyptian god.
The Cyclopes of Greek mythology each have one eye, although this Cyclops lost his after trying to hold Odysseus captive.
eye
Horus
Polyphemus &lt;SEA&gt;
After this event occurs, Lif and Lifthrasir, its only survivors, will repopulate the world. For 10 points each:
Name this cataclysmic event in Norse Mythology known as the “twilight of the gods.” The blowing of Heimdall’s Gjallarhorn signifies its beginning.
During Ragnarok, this ferocious beast will swallow Odin whole, while his sons consume the sun and moon. This creature was the son of Loki and the giantess Angrboda.
With Fenrir on the loose during Ragnarok, it means that this chain that binds him has been broken. It was formed from several physically impossible objects, such as the beard of a woman and the roots of a mountain.
Ragnarok
Fenrir
Gleipnir &lt;AT&gt;
In this work, the main character’s frenemy warns him about the terrifying Humbaba, even though only moments before their battle threatened to destroy a city. Frenemies, right? For 10 points each:
Name this Akkadian epic poem divided into tablets which was based on a real Sumerian king. In it, Aruru must mold Enkidu from clay in order to challenge the strength of the title character.
Tablet XI of the Epic of Gilgamesh discusses this event caused by the great gods, which almost destroyed humanity. It was signaled by the rising of a black cloud on the day it began.
The only survivor of the flood was this man, whom Ea (or Enki) warned through a reed wall and helped to plan a story to tell the people of Shuruppak. He survived by building a huge boat.
Epic of Gilgamesh [prompt on Bilgamesh]
flood
Utnapishtim &lt;CL&gt;
In this work, the main character’s frenemy warns him about the terrifying Humbaba, even though only moments before their battle threatened to destroy a city. Frenemies, right? For 10 points each:
Name this Akkadian epic poem divided into tablets which was based on a real Sumerian king. In it, Aruru must mold Enkidu from clay in order to challenge the strength of the title character.
Tablet XI of the Epic of Gilgamesh discusses this event caused by the great gods, which almost destroyed humanity. It was signaled by the rising of a black cloud on the day it began.
The only survivor of the flood was this man, whom Ea (or Enki) warned through a reed wall and helped to plan a story to tell the people of Shuruppak. He survived by building a huge boat.
Epic of Gilgamesh [prompt on Bilgamesh]
flood
Utnapishtim &lt;CL&gt;
Because Vishnu lives far beyond the realm of the material universe, he must use avatars to communicate with the mortal world. Name some things about these avatars, for 10 points each:
A dialogue between Arjuna and his charioteer, this blue-skinned avatar of Vishnu, is detailed in the Bhagavad Gita. When he assumes his multi-armed form, this avatar describes himself as “Death, the destroyer of worlds.”
Matsya, the first avatar of Vishnu, is in the form of this animal. In this guise, Vishnu saved the first human, Manu, from a great flood.
At the end of the world, this last avatar of Vishnu will come on horseback to end all vice on earth. He holds a flaming sword and his name literally means “White Horse”.
Krishna
fish
Kalki &lt;JK&gt;
This figure fought and defeated Queen Maeve at the Cattle Raid of Cooley. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary hero, also known as Setanta, who wields the spear Gae Bulg and is featured in the Ulster cycle in Irish mythology.
Cu Chulainn’s violation of this taboo resulted in his eventual death. He was forced into doing this action by a hag because he was also enchanted to always accept a meal prepared by a woman.
Another figure from the Ulster cycle is this beautiful heroine. She was cursed to have kings and lords go to war over her, earning her the title “of the Sorrows.”
Cu Chulainn (“Ku KULL-in”)
eating dog meat [accept equivalents]
Deirdre &lt;JK&gt;
This object was created to prevent disputes among a mythical king’s barons. For 10 points each:
Name this object that is sometimes said to be a wedding gift from Guinevere’s father Leodegrance.
In another story, this son of Aeneas helped his father figure out that a prophecy about eating tables actually referred to bread.
While the gods were at table with this man’s father Tantalus, a distracted Demeter accidentally ate a piece of his shoulder. Hephaestus made this man a new shoulder out of ivory.
Round Table
Ascanius
Pelops &lt;SEA&gt;
This animal and Skunk are are sometimes portrayed as incompetent hunters. For 10 points each:
Name this canine Native American god who, like Raven, is often depicted as a trickster. In one legend, he created the Milky Way by blowing the stars into the sky.
Coyote appears in the Diné Bahaneʼ of this tribe. According to this tribe's creation myth, Spider Woman taught humans to weave.
In the myths of this North American people, the sea goddess Sedna sinks to the bottom of the ocean after her fingers are cut off to form sea animals. The myth system of these people also features Nanook, the master of bears.
Coyote
Navajo [accept Naabeehó; prompt on Diné]
Inuit [accept Inuk; or Eskimos; or Yupik] &lt;SEA/AG&gt;
When something in myth is gilded, chances are it’s pretty important. Name some things about golden objects in myth, for 10 points each:
For his Eleventh Labor, Hercules tricked this Titan into retrieving some golden apples. As punishment for his participation in the Titanomachy, he was tasked with holding up the celestial spheres.
This Norse goddess of beauty owns the dwarf-made gold necklace Brisingamen. In order to retrieve a hammer from a giant, Thor had to dress up as this goddess, who is also occasionally referred to as the goddess of gold.
This god in Hindu mythology was also called Hiranyagarbha because he was born from a seed that turned into a golden egg.
Atlas
Freyja
Brahma &lt;JK&gt;
This son of King Pellinore accomplished his most famous quest with Sir Galahad. For 10 points each:
Name this Knight of the Round Table and subject of a namesake epic by Wolfram von Eschenbach. In this epic, he is the father of Lohengrin.
On his quest, Sir Percival meets this figure, who is wounded in his legs. In some accounts Percival fails to complete his quest because he does not ask a question which would heal this figure.
Sir Percival was sent on a quest to find this sacred cup in Arthurian legend. It was supposedly used by Jesus during the Last Supper, and can therefore grant eternal life.
Sir Percival
The Fisher King
Holy Grail &lt;JK&gt;
This quality was possessed by Pollux, but not Castor. For 10 points each:
Name this quality conferred by nectar and ambrosia. Possessed by the gods of Olympus, it makes the gods unchanging in their imperfections.
This centaur surrendered his immortality to free Prometheus. He mentored a number of heroes including Heracles and Achilles. 
Thanks to the oversight of his lover Eos, this poor shepherd was endowed with immortality but not eternal youth. Unable to die, he shriveled into a grasshopper. 
immortality
Chiron
Tithonus
Cross-dressing in mythology is quite popular! For 10 points each, name some figures who did so. 
This Norse god of thunder reluctantly dressed up as Freyja to marry the giant Thrym, who stole this god's hammer Mjolnir. 
Cursed with impotence during the Pandavas' exile, this Hindu hero from the Mahabharata crossdressed as Brihannala to teach music and dance. When the curse was lifted, he took up his bow to fight the Kauravas. 
Thetis dressed this Greek hero as a girl and hid him on Skyros to shield him from joining the Trojan War. Odysseus recognized him as a boy after he took up a spear. 
Thor
Arjuna
Achilles
He is the son of Lugh and Deichtine. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish hero of the Ulster Cycle known for his berserker frenzy in battle. He was the sole defender in the Cattle Raid of Cooley.
CÃºchulainn earned his name by killing one of these animals belonging to a blacksmith, though he later died after eating the meat of one of these. Cerberus is a three-headed one of these animals. 
This was CÃºchulainn's barbed spear, given to him by the heroine Scathach. CÃºchulainn killed his foster brother and best friend Ferdiad with this weapon.
CÃºchulainn ("coo-HEL-en") [or Cuhillin; or Setanta]
dogs [or hounds; accept Canis lupus familiaris]
Gae Bolg [or Gae Bulg; or Gae Bolga; or Gae Bulga] 
Answer the following about a myth system written about by Geoffrey of Monmouth. For 10 points each:
Geoffrey of Monmouth's self-proclaimed "histories" mostly deal with this legendary king of England, who wielded Excalibur.
Geoffrey of Monmouth wrote that this nephew of Arthur seduced Arthur's wife Guinevere, forcing Arthur to return from his wars against Rome. He was later portrayed as Arthur's son by his half-sister Morgause.
In the History of the Kings of England, after the battle in which Mordred is killed, a wounded Arthur is taken to this legendary island. It is also the location of the forging of Excalibur and the home of Morgan le Fay.
King Arthur Pendragon [prompt on Pendragon]
Mordred
Avalon
She was told that if she kept silent about her pregnancy, her child would be immortal. For 10 points each:
Name this woman prophesied to marry a hideous monster. She was assisted by ants, a talking reed, and an eagle in her quest to be reunited with her lover Cupid. 
Psyche's sisters convinced her to sneak a peek at her husband as he slept. Cupid didn't turn out to be hideous at all, but Psyche made this mistake, causing Cupid to wake up and flee.
A talking tower told Psyche how to enter the underworld and approach this goddess, from whom Psyche asked a box of beauty. Unbeknownst to Psyche, this wife of Hades filled the box instead with sleep. 
Psyche
she dripped hot lamp oil on him [accept equivalents, such as she spilled hot wax on him]
Persephone [or Proserpina]
In two instances, a game centered on this action included three faked strikes to test the recipient's resolve. For 10 points each:
Give this method of death, committed by Judith against Holofernes, and by Lancelot against a red-girdled knight in The High History of the Holy Grail.
Lancelot's encounter with the red-girdled knight is probably derived from an earlier depiction of this Arthurian knight's beheading game with the Green Knight.
A beheading game is used to crown CÃºchulainn ("coo-HEL-en") as the champion in the Bricriu's Feast story. Bricrui's Feast is a part of this nation's Ulster Cycle, which includes the characters Finn McCool and Scathatch.
beheading [or decapitation]
Sir Gawain
Ireland [accept Northern Ireland; grudgingly prompt on Great Britain; don't accept Scotland, Wales, Brittany, France, or the Isle of Man]
In Chinese mythology, Gun is first appointed to try to staunch the Great one of these with magically absorptive soil. For 10 points each:
Name these disasters common in mythology and religion, usually as divine retribution intended to start human civilization anew. In the book of Genesis, Noah saves his family and pairs of animals from one of these events.
In the Sumerian creation myth, this patron god of Eridu warns one human to build an ark to escape the oncoming flood. He is also the god of seawater, crafts, and mischief.
This figure of Greek mythology managed to escape Zeus's flood by hiding in a chest with his wife Pyrrha at the advice of his father, Prometheus.
floods
Enki [or Ea]
Deucalion
Answer the following about the prophecies of Calchas ("KAHL-kahs"), for 10 points each:
Calchas told this commander of Greek forces to sacrifice his daughter Iphigenia before setting sail for Troy. After the war, he was murdered by his wife Clytemnestra.
Calchas recommended interrogating Helenus, who revealed that the Achaeans would need the bones of this figure to take Troy. He was given an ivory shoulder blade after his father Tantalus cut him up for the gods. 
Helenus also revealed that the Achaeans would need to steal this object, a statue of Athena, because Troy would not fall while it remained inside the city walls.
Agamemnon
Pelops
the Trojan Palladium
Confusingly, this goddess is sometimes worshipped as Kali, or is considered the gentle aspect of great Devi, or an embodiment of the feminine power Shakti. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who replaced her beaheaded son Ganesh’s head with an elephant head. She is the second wife of Shiva.
This other goddess, beloved by merchants, was the embodiment of riches and prosperity. The consort of Vishnu is given an offering during Diwali.
The swan-riding Saraswati is this Hindu god’s consort. This creator god of the universe is much less worshipped than his fellow Trimurti members Vishnu and Shiva.
Parvati
Lakshmi [or Laxmi]
Brahma [DO NOT accept “Brahman” or “Brahmin”] &lt;SSp&gt;
Hippomenes threw three golden apples to startle this woman while competing with her. For 10 points each:
Name this mortal Greek huntress who promised to marry any suitor who could outrun her in a footrace and killed all the suitors who failed.
Atalanta’s son Parthenopaeus joined this small group of warriors, which sought to capture a city shortly after Oedipus’s self-exile. Aeschylus wrote about its members, such as Oedipus’s son Polynices.
In some versions, this goddess turned Athena and her husband Hippomenes into lions for defiling her temple. This Phrygian earth goddess had a castrated lover named Attis.
Atalanta
the Seven against Thebes [or Hepta epi Thēbas; or Septem contra Thebas]
Cybele [or Kybele; prompt “Magna Mater”; prompt “Rhea” due to syncretism] &lt;MJ&gt;
Name these relatives of Odin, for 10 points each.
This god of light, the son of Odin, had a funeral after which everyone in the universe cried except for Loki. He was slain by his brother.
This goddess sits on a throne next to Odin as his wife and the queen of Asgard.
Name either or both of Odin’s two brothers, who helped him slay the giant Ymir and take Ymir’s body apart to form the cosmos.
Baldur [or Baldr]
Frigga [DO NOT ACCEPT “Freya” or “Freyja”]
Vili AND/OR Ve &lt;SSp/MJ&gt;
Answer these questions about mythical bards in old poetry, for 10 points each.
The blind bard Demodocus sings of the affair between Ares and Aphrodite at the invitation of King Alcinous in this poem. Its other characters include Nausicaa.
This bard retells many other myths in Book X of Ovid’s Metamorphoses. He descends into the Underworld and convinces Hades to return his wife Eurydice (“yoo-RID-i-see”), but loses her by looking backward.
This ancient bard and son of Ilmatar plays the harp-like kantele and can’t find a wife, according to the Finnish national epic Kalevala.
The Odyssey [or Odýsseia]
Orpheus
Väinämöinen &lt;GL&gt;
His queen was Hersilia. For 10 points each:
Name this grandson of Numitor, who overthrew Amulius after being raised by Faustulus and a she-wolf. This man was deified as Quirinus after killing his twin brother Remus and founding a city on seven hills.
Titus Tatius, a king of these people, ruled with Romulus, after their women intervened in their war with Rome. They were aided by Tarpeia, and the Romans’ seizure of their daughters is known as the “rape of (their) women”.
This Vestal Virgin, a daughter of Numitor, was buried alive by Amulius for giving birth to Romulus and Remus by the god Mars.
Romulus
the Sabines [or Sabini]
Rhea Silvia [or Rea Silvia; or Ilia] &lt;JW&gt;
[<em>Note to moderator: do NOT reveal any promptable or acceptable alternate answers to the second bonus part unless a team gives one of them.</em>] Answer some questions about the downfall of Camelot, for 10 points each.
This knight’s affair with Queen Guinevere brought Arthur’s reputation down. This greatest knight of the Round Table killed Gareth and Gaheris to prevent Guinevere’s burning at the stake.
Things started going downhill in Camelot after this mysterious woman sealed Arthur’s wizard advisor Merlin in a cave. More benevolently, she gave Arthur the sword Excalibur.
In some tales, Arthur is boated away to this island after losing to his illegitimate son Mordred. In others, the Lady of the Lake rules this home of many fruit trees.
Lancelot du Lac [or Lancelot of the Lake; accept Launcelot]
Lady of the Lake [or Vivian; or Vivienne; or Nimue; or Nyneve; or Nyneue; or Ninianne; or Niviane; prompt on “Lady of Avalon;” DO NOT REVEAL that you can prompt such an answer unless teams give it]
Isle of Avalon [or Ynys Afallon; or Isle of Apples; or Insula Pomorum; prompt “Fortunate Isle”] &lt;GL&gt;
Answer some questions about ancient forms of writing, for 10 points each.
To create these Shang dynasty artifacts, kings would inscribe questions using a namesake proto-Chinese script. These items were then thrown into the fire, after which diviners would interpret the cracks in them.
This pictographic writing system uses characters like the folded cloth, reed, and horned viper to represent alphabetic sounds. It was deciphered with the help of the Rosetta Stone.
This Sumerian script, which may be the oldest written language, uses reed styluses to create wedge-shaped indentations on clay tablets. It was later adapted by Akkadians, and Assyrians.
oracle bones [or jiagu; prompt “bones”]
Egyptian hieroglyphs [or hieroglyphics; do not accept “demotic” or “hieratic”]
cuneiform &lt;GL&gt;
This goddess is sometimes shown wearing a horned headdress wrapped around a sun disk and the cobra Uraeus. For 10 points each:
Name this wife of Horus, an Egyptian goddess identified with, or depicted as, a cow.
Hathor is ambiguously related to this chief Egyptian god, who drives a barge across the sky each day in his role as god of the sun.
This brother of Ra is a serpent representing darkness and chaos. This god waits below the horizon to do battle with Ra each night, forcing Set and Thoth to help Ra out.
Hathor
Ra [or Re; or Amun-Ra; or Amun-Re; or Atum-Ra; or Atum-Re; do not prompt “Amun” or “Atum” alone]
Apep [or Apophis] &lt;AT&gt;
One example of these folkloric creatures demanded a maiden sacrifice in the city of Silene, Libya, where it was slain by a sainted guard of Diocletian who medieval Europeans imagined as a knight. For 10 points each:
Name these large creatures. They included Saint George’s scaliest, most fire-breathing victim.
The Chinese Dragon Kings and the Japanese dragon kami Ryujin live in this locale, and control its movements with a magical pearl. Greek Nereids were nymphs of this place.
This greedy Norse guy turned into a dragon after stealing a hoard of gold from Andvari. The hero Sigurd slew this dragon and bathed in its blood.
dragons [prompt “serpents”]
the ocean [or the sea; prompt “water” but do not accept “lakes,” “rivers,” “endorheic basins,” or other wrong stuff]
Fafnir [or Fafner; or Fraenir] &lt;MJ&gt;
The <em>Kojiki</em> is the oldest extant chronicle and collection of myths from this modern-day country. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of Shinto, whose emperor renounced imperial descent from the sun goddess Amaterasu after losing World War II.
This is the Japanese word for divinities or spirits. Many Shinto adherents believe that each natural feature has one of these connected to it.
These animals serve as messengers for the agriculture kami Inari, and statues of them at Inari’s shrines are often confused for Inari. In folklore, they gain more tails as they get wiser.
Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon]
kami
foxes [or kitsune] &lt;AT&gt;
Answer these questions about the second-most disruptive apple ever, presuming the fruit in the Garden of Eden was actually an apple, for 10 points each.
This inscription was carved into a golden apple which the goddess of discord, Eris, threw into a wedding feast to which she wasn’t invited. This phrase led Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite to all claim the apple.
This bratty prince got to abduct Helen after he gave the apple to Aphrodite in his namesake “judgment” of which goddess was fairest.
Name both the bride and the groom at the wedding where Eris threw the apple. The bride was an ocean nymph who later begged Hephaestus to forge a shield, and the groom was an exiled prince of Aegina.
“For the fairest one” [or “To the fairest one;” or “For/to the most beautiful;” or “te kalliste”; or “te kallisti”; or pulcherrimae; accept answers specifying “woman” or “goddess” rather than “one”]
Paris
Thetis AND Peleus &lt;DL/MJ&gt;
Answer these questions about the mythology of New Zealand’s Maori people, for 10 points each.
The Maori believe in a goddess of this type named Rangi, who married the sky god Papa. In this role, Rangi is analogous to the Egyptian god Geb and the Greek Gaea.
This Polynesian trickster god pulled New Zealand up from the sea using a jawbone as a fishhook. This figure, who once lassoed the sun to slow it down, is also venerated by Hawaiians.
Paikea rode these creatures across the sea to become the first person on North Island. In many Native American myths, this creature opposes the Thunderbird, and Sinbad the Sailor got screwed over by one on his first voyage.
earth goddess [or Mother Earth; accept answers such as ground]
Maui
whales [more specifically humpback whales; prompt “fish” or “giant fish” even though whales are mammals] &lt;MJ&gt;
This god was once abducted by pirates whom he turned into dolphins, and took Ariadne into his retinue on the isle of Naxos. For 10 points each:
Name this child of Semele, a god followed by maenads. He used his power to drive people insane on Lycurgus, and in some accounts replaced Hestia on Mount Olympus after his birth.
This king saved Dionysus’s drunken satyr Silenus, leading Dionysus to grant this king’s not-so-awesome wish to turn anything he touched to gold.
This Theban king was torn apart by female followers of Dionysus, including his mother Agave, after he refused to believe that a god could be born and banned Dionysus-worship.
Dionysus [or Bacchus; do not accept “Dionysius”]
King Midas of Lydia
Pentheus &lt;MJ&gt;
Answer these questions about the ten-headed demon lord Ravana (“RAH-vuh-nuh”), as told by a Hindu epic, for 10 points each.
This Ayodhyan prince’s namesake epic features Ravana as the villain. This man, Vishnu’s seventh avatar, takes up his bow and sets out to destroy Ravana after Ravana kidnaps his wife Sita.
Along with bears, these animals build a bridge to Ravana’s base on the isle of Lanka to help Rama. The god Hanuman took this animal form, and three Japanese ones hear no evil, see no evil, and speak no evil.
A container of this substance in Ravana’s stomach made him more powerful. The devas and asuras attempted to obtain this substance by churning the ocean of milk.
Rama [or Ram; or Sriram]
monkeys
nectar of immortality [or amrit; or amrta; prompt “elixir of immortality” and such answers] &lt;MJ&gt;
This hero diverted a river to clean the Augean stables and was deified after a poisoned shirt burned him to death. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus antagonized by Hera. At king Eurystheus’s request, he used his strength to complete twelve labors, such as slaying the Hydra.
Heracles’ first labor was to slay this golden-hued creature, whose pelt made it impervious to arrows. He strangled it and is depicted in art wearing that pelt thereafter.
Eurystheus hid in one of these objects for long stretches after the sight of Heracles in the Nemean lion pelt scared him. The Aloadae giants trapped Ares in one of these for a year.
Heracles [or Hercules]
the Nemean lion
a bronze wine jar [or a storage urn; or pithos] &lt;MJ&gt;
Name these groups of mythical Greek females, for 10 points each.
This trio of deities weave and appropriately cut the threads of each person’s life.
These entities emerged from drops of Kronus’ blood that fell into the sea. They pursue cosmic vengeance, particularly by attacking people who kill their own family.
Edmund Spenser adapted his Britomart from one of these beings named Britomartis. These nymphs of the mountains correspond to dryads in forests and naiads in water.
Fates [or Moirai, or Aisa, or Fata, or Parcae]
Furies [or Erinyes; or Eumenides; or Dirae]
oreads &lt;DL&gt;
This god was a rival of Tezcatlipoca and a twin of the dog-headed Xolotl. For 10 points each:
Name this god who sailed away from modern-day Mexico on a raft of snakes during the era of the fifth sun. He is a feathered serpent.
Quetzalcoatl is a key god of this Mesoamerican civilization, which also made human sacrifices to the hummingbird god Huitzilopochtli.
This substance was applied to bones in the underworld Mictlan by Quetzalcoatl to recreate humanity for the age of the fifth sun.
Quetzalcoatl
Aztecs [or Nahuatl]
his own blood &lt;MJ&gt;
[missing]
 Name this mother of Astyanax and wife of the greatest Trojan hero. She was taken as Neoptolemus's concubine during the Trojan War but later married Helenus.
 This husband of Andromache led the Trojans against the Greeks. He dueled Ajax and killed Patroclus before he was chased around the walls of Troy, killed, and had his body mistreated.
 This Greek hero killed Hector as well as other heroes like Penthesilea and Memnon. He was invulnerable everywhere except where his mother Thetis had held him while dipping him into the river Styx.
 Andromache
 Hector
 Achilles
Name these mythological figures who planted things in the ground for 10 points each.
This Phoenician prince and brother of Europa was given dragon's teeth by Athena to plant in the ground. The oracle at Delphi told him to follow a cow, leading him to found Thebes.
This man survived the great flood by hiding with his wife Pyrrha in a large chest. He and Pyrrha threw the "bones of their mother," or stones, behind them to form the new human race.
Medea gave this leader of the Argonauts dragon's teeth as well, which he used to plow a field in less than a day. Later, he left Medea on an island.
Cadmus
Deucalion
Jason
[missing]
 These Mesomaerican people believed the god Itzamna brought them writing and the calendar system, which includes the 260-day Tzolkin count and the Long Count, which ended in December 2012.
 Translated by Francisco Ximenez, the title of this four-part work means "Book of the People." It recounts three attempts at creating humans, and the tale of the first four men, their wives, and the First Dawn.
 The main portion of the Popol Vuh is about these two ball-playing brothers, Xbalanque and Hunahpu. They go through several tests in Xibalba, eventually defeating the Lords of Death and becoming the sun and the moon.
 Mayans
 Popol Vuh
 Hero Twins
[missing]
 Name this self-exiled king of Kosala, a man with blue skin who wielded the bow. He is featured in a namesake epic.
 Rama's main enemy was this demon king of Lanka who had ten heads and performed immense penances to Brahma and Shiva to gain power. He stored the nectar of immortality in his navel, making him effectively invincible.
 Ravana had captured this wife of Rama, who elected to enter exile with her husband and then raised his children again in isolation. She was the embodiment of womanhood and an avatar of Lakshmi.
 Rama
 Ravana [accept Dasis Ravana, Ravan, Raavan, Ravula, Lankeshwar, or Ravanaeshwaran]
 Sita [accept Seetha]
[missing]
 Pygmalion fell in love with this creation of his, a sculpture of a woman. He prayed to Venus, who turned this woman from ivory to flesh.
 This extremely ugly satyr was the god of nature. His flute was made from reeds, which the nymph Syrinx changed into after he chased her.
 In addition to Galatea and Pan, Daphne, who transforms into a laurel tree, and Echo, whose voice remains when she disappears, appear in Metamorphoses, a work by this Roman poet.
 Galatea
 Pan [accept Faunus]
 Ovid [or Publius Ovidius Naso]
[missing]
 This man was the king of Troy at the time of the Iliad. This father of Hector was killed by Achilles's son.
 This princess was the daughter of Priam and Hecuba. She had the gift of foresight but was cursed by Apollo so that nobody would listen to her predictions.
 Cassandra predicted this tool used by the Greeks to enter Troy. It was made of wood, and warriors, including Odysseus, Neoptolemus, and the lesser Ajax, hid inside it.
 Priam
 Cassandra
 Trojan Horse
[missing]
 Name this massive dragon in Babylonian myth, the primordial personification of chaos and the ocean. After her defeat, her body was split in two and used to form the world.
 This god used a whole slew of weapons, including a giant net, a flood-storm, and a whole bunch of winds, to kill Tiamat. After he succeeded, he was made the chief Babylonian god and was given 50 names.
 Tiamat gave these objects to Kingu, which were reclaimed by Marduk after he defeated Tiamat. They conferred to him his authority as chief of the pantheon.
 Tiamat
 Marduk [or Bel]
 Tablets of Destiny [or Dup Shimati] 
[missing]
 This giant was the first being, created when the fire of Muspelheim and the ice of Niflheim formed a water droplet. A race of frost giants descended from him.
 When Ymir got too huge and powerful, Vili, Ve, and this god killed him. He is the husband of Frigg and ruler of the Aesir.
 Odin gave up his eye so that he might gain knowledge by drinking from the well of this figure. The Vanir cut off his head, which Odin kept and consulted for advice.
 Ymir [accept Aurgelmir, Brimir, or Blainn]
 Odin [or Wotan]
 Mimir [or Mim]
[missing]
 Name this mythological hero who slew his most famous enemy with a lump of lead attached to a spear. This man lived on the Plains of Aleion after being blinded and crippled by a gadfly sent by Zeus.
 Bellerophon used a golden bridle to tame this magical winged horse with whom he killed the Chimera. he and his brother Chrysaor sprung from the decapitated corpse of Medusa.
 Like his father King Glaucus, Bellerophon hailed from this Greek city. This city-state was also home to Glaucus's own father Sisyphus, who founded its Isthmian Games.
 Bellerophon
 Pegasus
 Corinth [or Ephyra]
[missing]
 This Greek god of the dead is also known as "The Rich One," and famously captured Demeter's daughter, Persephone, to be his wife. Hercules asked this god for his dog, Cerberus.
 This Norse goddess is the daughter of Loki, and the world she rules bears her name. She is often described as half-flesh and half-black or rot, and with a generally melancholy air.
 Devi transformed into this Hindu goddess to slay the demon Raktabija, who is duplicated when his blood is spilled. She is depicted with black skin and standing on the corpse of Shiva, and is connected to empowerment, or shakti.
 Hades or Plouton [do not accept "Pluto"]
 Hel
 Kalika
[missing]
 This Native American trickster god stole fire from the gods by dancing around it with reeds on his head, and running away before the gods stopped laughing.
 This spider from African folklore tried to hoard all the world's knowledge in a pot, but dropped it out of annoyance at being bested by his son.
 Anansi became a folk hero for the southern blacks in America along with this bunny trickster, who once fought and got stuck to a tar baby. He befriended Old Man Tarrypin, a turtle whose pond was once set on fire.
 Coyote
 Anansi
 Brer Rabbit
[missing]
 This goddess has a lion's head and a woman's body. Ra created her to destroy mankind, but when she got out of hand, he tricked her into drinking seven thousand jars of beer, transforming her into her counterpart Hathor.
 Sekhmet is the wife and sister of this green-skinned god, the patron of craftsmen. He is depicted in the linens of a mummy and carries a was sceptre with a djed and an ankh. In some myths, he thought the universe into existence.
 This city was the center of the Ptah cult. Ptah is part of this city's namesake triad, along with Sekhmet and Nefertem. It was the capital of the Old Kingdom, and was also notable for its huge statues of Ramses II.
 Sekhmet [accept Sakhmet, Sachmis, Sekhet, or Sakhet]
 Ptah
 Memphis
[missing]
 This son of Odin was served by Djalfi and wielded the hammer Mjolnir.
 This goddess and wife of Thor had golden hair, an allusion to wheat. Loki once cut her hair off, after which Thor threatened to break all of Loki's bones.
 To make amends, Loki coaxed the dwarfs into making items including Mjolnir and Skidbladnir, the latter of which was one of these objects. Naglfar, another one of these, is made of  the nails of the dead.
 Thor
 Sif
 ship [accept boat and other clear equivalents] 
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the death of Baldur, a Norse god of light and beauty.
Baldur died after this trickster god tricked his blind brother Hodr into firing an arrow tipped with mistletoe. His tricks got so evil that he became an enemy of the gods.
In punishment, Loki was bound by his own intestines in a cave under this type of creature. Other examples include the “Midgard” one, a child of Loki which wrestles Thor.
Loki’s wolf son Fenrir is also bound, but by this chain fashioned by dwarves out of ingredients which no longer exist, such as a cat’s footfall, a woman’s beard, and the roots of a mountain.
Loki [do not accept “Utgard-Loki”]
snake [or serpent]
Gleipnir &lt;AD&gt;
She was chained to a rock to appease a sea monster after her mother, Cassiopeia, boasted of her beauty. For 10 points each:
Name this Ethiopian princess.
This hero rescued Andromeda by taking out the sea monster. To marry her, he then turned her suitors into stone using the head of Medusa, which he cut off on a previous quest.
Perseus fulfilled the prophecy that he’d kill his grandfather by accidentally killing Acrisius with one of these objects. Another of them killed Hyacinthus when Zephyrus got jealous.
Andromeda
Perseus
a discus &lt;SSp&gt;
Answer these questions about the founding of Thebes, for 10 points each.
The inciting incident for Thebes’s founding was the abduction of Europa by this serial philanderer and chief god of Olympus.
This Phoenician brother of Europa founded Thebes after following a cow to try and rescue her. Though he never found her, he did start the city where he planted the teeth of a serpent and they grew into men.
This immortal daughter of Ares and Aphrodite married Cadmus. At her wedding, Hephaestus gave this bride a cursed necklace that brought misfortune to the House of Thebes.
Zeus [or Jupiter; or Jove]
Cadmus
Harmonia &lt;RB&gt;
In one myth, he gambled with the moon for one seventy-second of the sun’s light, thereby giving humanity a 365-day calendar. For 10 points each:
Name this inventor of writing, a god who gave Isis the magic words needed to resurrect Osiris. He was often depicted with the head of an ibis.
In his role as scribe, Thoth assisted this god of embalming who carried out the weighing of dead hearts. This jackal-headed god had Thoth stand nearby and record the results of each weighing.
The dead person’s heart was weighed against an ostrich feather belonging to this goddess of truth.
Thoth [or Djehuty; or Dihauti]
Anubis [or Inupu; or Inepu; or Wepwawet]
Ma’at [or Mayet] &lt;SSp&gt;
The myth system of this people includes a god depicted with a smoking obsidian mirror embedded in his chest or foot, and their present was the age of the fifth sun. For 10 points each:
Name this people whose gods included Tezcatlipoca and the water god Tlaloc, to whom they sacrificed babies.
This good Aztec god gave maize to mankind and sailed away on a raft of serpents. Some Mormon scholars compare or equate this “feathered serpent” god with Jesus.
This Aztec war god’s name translates as “left-handed hummingbird.” His father was a ball of feathers placed in the waistband of Coatlicue.
Aztecs [or Nahua]
Quetzalcoatl
Huitzilopochtli &lt;AD&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the Hindu preserver god Vishnu.
This is the term for incarnations of a Hindu deity in the physical world. Vishnu has a canonical set of ten.
Vishnu’s eighth avatar was this blue-skinned god who played tricks on cowherds in his youth. This god reveals his full splendor to his master Arjuna while working as a charioteer.
Vishnu’s first avatar, the fish Matsya, appeared to help save this early man from a great flood, allowing his descendants to repopulate the earth.
avatars
Krishna [or Krsna]
Vaivasvata Manu [or Satyavrata] &lt;MJ&gt;
This man is the son of Ygraine and Uther Pendragon. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical English king who led the knights of Camelot after pulling a sword from a stone which people mistakenly conflate with Excalibur.
This illegitimate son of Arthur and Morgause was fated to kill his father on the battlefield of Camlann.
A band containing Arthur and Sir Kay helps Culhwch win over Olwen in this collection of Welsh myth compiled by Lady Charlotte Guest. Arthur appears outside the four main stories, or “branches,” featuring Pryderi.
King Arthur
Mordred
The Mabinogion &lt;MJ&gt;
These figures perform the not-so-exciting task of serving ale to the <em>einherjar</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these women who more excitingly ride out on horseback to find slain warriors and bring them to Valhalla in preparation for the battles of the Norse apocalypse, Ragnarok.
The Valkyries are often conflated with fighting “maidens” who are named for their use of these objects. Zeus and Athena are identified with one called the Aegis.
The Norns, a different set of Norse mythical females, who determine the fates of men near one of these locales named for Urdr. Odin gave up an eye to gain wisdom from one of these named for Mimir.
valkyries
shields
wells &lt;MJ&gt;
Erichthonius was born after Hephaestus tried to rape this goddess. For 10 points each:
Name this gray-eyed Greek goddess of wisdom and tactics who favored Odysseus. She is often depicted wearing a helmet more often than her Roman counterpart Minerva.
Athena helped Odysseus’s son Telemachus travel to Pylos and Sparta in search of news about his missing father. Give the name of either king visited by Telemachus on that trip.
Athena sprang fully-grown from the head of Zeus after he had cunningly swallowed this Titan famed for her wisdom. This Titan was thereby regarded as Athena’s mother.
Pallas Athena [prompt “Pallas”]
Nestor OR Menelaus
Metis &lt;SSp&gt;
One Polynesian trickster wrestled Mahuika before prying off Mahuika’s fingernails to accomplish this task, and Coyote enlisted other animals such as Squirrel to do it in Shoshone and Karok tales. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical transgression depicted by the statue at Rockefeller Center in New York, for which a Greek titan was punished by an eagle which ate his liver every day.
This Titan and brother of Epimetheus, who is “bound” in an Aeschylus play, stole fire in Greek myth.
The aforementioned Polynesian god was this hero who used a jawbone to slow down the sun and pulled up the islands of the Pacific, including one to which he gives his name.
the stealing of fire from the gods [accept synonyms for “steal” such as theft or robbery; accept giving fire to humankind, introducing fire to the mortal world, or equivalents]
Prometheus
Maui-tikitiki [or Ti’iti’i] &lt;MJ&gt;
On his long journey home after the Trojan War, Odysseus encountered many temptations. For 10 points each, answer these questions about women in <em>The Odysssey</em>:
This mortal woman proves faithful to Odysseus by resisting the advances of suitors for all twenty years he’s away. Odysseus fathered Telemachus with this wife of his.
The witch Circe turned Odysseus’s men into these creatures, turning them back after a year of Odysseus’s love. The Erymanthian and Calydonian ones were slain by Meleager and Heracles, respectively.
The immortal nymph Calypso held Odysseus captive on this island for seven years. Zeus sent Hermes to a cave on this island with orders to set Odysseus free.
Penelope
pigs [or boars; or hogs; or swine]
Ogygia [or Ogygiē] &lt;RB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the nine worlds in Norse mytho-geography:
The squirrel Ratatosk relays messages up and down this structure between the root-gnawing dragon Nidhogg and a hawk in its branches. It’s a huge tree connecting all nine worlds.
This realm of the gods is connected to Midgard by the rainbow bridge Bifrost. It contains Valhalla and the Plains of Ida.
Surt, the leader of this fiery realm, will emerge and set Midgard on fire at Ragnarok. It lies below Midgard and south of Niflheim.
Yggdrasil [prompt “World Tree”]
Asgard
Muspellheim &lt;SS&gt;
Answer some questions about King Arthur's Court, for 10 points each:
This Knight conducted an affair with Guinevere, but was banished after he sired Galahad with Elaine.
Lancelot was raised by this woman after the death of his father. In some stories, she trapped the smitten Merlin  in a tree after learning magic from him.
This other knight had "perfect sinews" and only one hand, and was apparently extremely handsome. As  Arthur's marshal, he was friends with Sir Kay and returned Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake.
Lancelot
the Lady of the Lake [accept Nimue, Vivian, or Ninian]
Bedivere
19.
These nymphs of the evening tended their namesake garden and guarded the immortality-giving apples of a tree  belonging to Hera.
This Titan was condemned to hold up the sky after the Titanomachy. Heracles had him collect golden apples  from the Hesperides, then tricked him into taking back his burden.
Hercules also slew this hundred-headed dragon that twisted around Hera's tree. His twitching body still lies  there, as seen years later by the Argonauts.
the Hesperides
Atlas
Ladon
This place was once invaded by the Fomorians, led by giants like Balor of the Evil Eye, as recorded in the Book of Invasions. For 10 points each:
Name this place where races like the Fir Bolg were displaced by the Tuatha de Danann. In real life this island was invaded by Oliver Cromwell, leading to the Siege of Drogheda.
This Irish hero fought the Fomorians in his travels, but is best known for going berserk and crushing the armies of Connacht under Queen Maeve during the Cattle Raid of Cooley.
The Cattle Raid of Cooley is a major part of this cycle of Irish myth, named for the region of Ireland defended by Cu Chulainn and ruled by Conchobar mac Nessa.
Ireland [accept Eire]
Cu Chulainn ("koo-hul-en") [or Setanta]
Ulster Cycle 
Aino drowned herself rather than marry this bard. For 10 points each:
Name this rival of Joukahanien who tortured the Luotes out of Antero Vipunen. He also tried to woo the  Maiden of the North and tricked Ilmarinen into crafting the Sampo.
Vainamoinen sails away after Marjotta's son chides him for his sins at the end of this epic poem. Other  episodes involve Ilmarinen's Bride of Gold and Kullervo's misfortune.
In The Kalevala, Ilmarinen is the god of this activity. Other figures associated with this activity include the  slayer of Nidhad, Wayland, and the creator of Pandora, Hephaestus.
Vainamoinen
The Kalevala
blacksmithing [accept equivalents]
After tasting the heart of the dragon Fafnir, this man learned to understand the language of birds. For 10 points  each:
Name this Germanic hero, a son of Sigmund who wrote through a circle of flames to rescue the maiden  Brynhild.
Fafnir the dragon sat on a hoard of this substance, which King Midas turned things into with his accursed touch.
This grandfather of Sigurd names an Icelandic saga which, along with the German Nibelungenlied, is one of the  two key primary sources for the Sigurd story.
Sigurd [or Siegfried; or Sifrid]
gold [or Au]
Volsung [or Volsung's Saga; or Volsunga Saga]
After tasting the heart of the dragon Fafnir, this man learned to understand the language of birds. For 10 points  each:
Name this Germanic hero, a son of Sigmund who wrote through a circle of flames to rescue the maiden  Brynhild.
Fafnir the dragon sat on a hoard of this substance, which King Midas turned things into with his accursed touch.
This grandfather of Sigurd names an Icelandic saga which, along with the German Nibelungenlied, is one of the  two key primary sources for the Sigurd story.
Sigurd [or Siegfried; or Sifrid]
gold [or Au]
Volsung [or Volsung's Saga; or Volsunga Saga]
Agni gave a gift to this warrior, which he then used to slay his foe and half-brother, Karna. For 10 points each:
Identify this third of the Pandavas, sired by Indra, whose chariot was driven by Krishna at the Battle of Kurukshetra.
The Pandavas fought against their cousins, members of this lineage, led by patriarch Dhritarashtra and his son Duryodhana.
The narrative of the Pandavas and Kauravas is narrated in this longest Indian epic, composed by Veda Vyasa. The Bhagavad Gita is part of this work.
Arjuna
Kauravas [prompt on Kurus]
Mahabharata
This deity, son of Coatlicue, led the Nahua people out of Aztlan and commanded them never to return. For 10 points each:
 Identify this deity of war and the sun, whose name translates as "blue hummingbird of the left."
Huitzilopochtli was the patron deity of this place, the capital city of the Nahua people, perhaps better known as the Aztecs.
This brother of Huitzilopochtli is the god of the morning star and created mankind for the fifth time. He is often depicted as a feathered serpent.
Huitzilopochtli
Tenochtitlan
Quetzalcoatl [or Quetzalcohuatl]
