In Buddhist mythology, the Heavenly King who guards this region is named Virupaksha. For 10 points each:
Name this general region, where Mount Kūnlún is said to be. In Taoist mythology, the Peaches of Immortality are cultivated by the Queen Mother of this region.
The hero journeys to the west from this island in an immram. Like Mount Kunlun, Tír na nÓg (teer-na-nog) is a mythical paradise west of this island, whose mythology includes tales of Cú Chulainn and Fionn mac Cumhaill.
In Greek mythology, this god of the West Wind is the gentlest of the Anemoi. Out of jealousy, this god directs Apollo’s discus to kill Hyacinthus.
the west [or xī; accept Xīwángmǔ]
Ireland
Zephyrus [or Zephyr] &lt;Mythology — Li/French&gt; [Ed. French]
This event was accomplished by using the snake Vasuki (VAH-soo-kee) as a rope and Mount Mandara (MAHN-duh-ra) as a rod. For 10 points each:
Name this event, which ended with the creation of amrita (UM-rit-ah), the nectar of immortality. During this event, the turtle Kurma appeared and allowed Mount Mandara to rest on its back.
During the Churning of the Ocean of Milk, the dangerous halahala poison emerged from the sea. To prevent it from engulfing the world, this god drank the poison, earning him the nickname neelakantha (NEE-la-KUHN-ta), or “blue throated.”
After the Churning was complete, this god appeared as the beautiful woman Mohini to beguile the Asuras into giving up the amrita. This Hindu preserver god forms the trimurti along with Brahma and Shiva.
the Churning of the Ocean of Milk [or the Churning of the Sea of Milk or Samudra Manthana, prompt on churning]
Shiva
Vishnu &lt;Mythology — Iyer&gt; [Ed. Venkateswaran]
Glaucus became a god of this domain after becoming immortal by eating a magical herb. For 10 points each:
Name this domain. A group of nymphs called the Nereids (NEER-ee-ids) were daughters of a deity known as the “Old Man” of this domain.
That “Old Man of the Sea” is Nereus (NEE-ree-us), who may be the same deity as this other “Old Man of the Sea.” This deity who slept at mid-day on the island of Pharos could see the future and change shape.
Menelaus (men-uh-LAY-us) asked Proteus how to get back home when returning home from this war, which he and the rest of Greece fought to recapture his wife, Helen.
the sea [or the ocean or thalatta; accept specific seas such as the Aegean or Mediterranean; accept fishermen]
Proteus
the Trojan War &lt;Mythology — French&gt; [Edited]
Mithras wears a hat from this region in depictions of the Tauroctony, since Romans associated those hats from this region with all cultures east of Rome. For 10 points each:
Name this region of Asia Minor, whose inhabitants worshiped gods like Attis and Cybele. This region names a style of soft, conical cap made of felt or wool.
During the French Revolution, Phrygian caps became associated with this concept. A woman personifying this concept wears a Phrygian cap in a painting of her “leading the people” by Eugene Delacroix.
This mythical king of Phrygia wore a Phrygian cap to hide the ass’s ears he was given by Apollo. This king bathed in the river Pactolus to lose an ability he was granted by Dionysus.
Phrygia [accept Phrygian cap]
liberty [or liberté or libertas; accept freedom]
King Midas &lt;Mythology — Schwartz/French&gt; [Ed. French]
An Old Norse kenning for bad poetry is “the dung of the ancient” one of these animals. For 10 points each:
Name this animal. After drinking the mead of poetry, Odin escapes Suttung’s lair by transforming into one of these animals.
To access the mead of poetry, Odin sneaks into Suttung’s lair by transforming into one of these animals. An enormous one of these animals named Jörmundgandr encircles Midgard.
The mead of poetry was created by two of these beings from the blood of Kvasir, whom they murdered. Two of these beings named Brokk and Eitri created Freyr’s boar Gullinbursti.
eagle [or ari or orn; prompt on bird]
snake [or serpent or ormr; accept sea serpent]
dwarves [or dwarf or dvergr; accept svartálfar or myrkálfar or black elves or swarthy elves or dark elves or dusky elves or murky elves; do NOT accept or prompt on “elves”] &lt;Mythology — French&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the end:
According to this political scientist’s book The End of History and the Last Man, the end of history is in the current system of capitalist liberal democracy.
Since the Sun is on the main sequence, it will probably exhaust its core hydrogen and become this kind of star in five billion years. These large, relatively cool stars eventually become white dwarfs.
In Norse mythology, this apocalyptic “twilight of the gods” will see Asgard and the Bifrost set on fire as the Midgard Serpent and the fire giants cause the end of the world.
Yoshihiro Francis Fukuyama
red giants [prompt on giant]
Ragnarök &lt;Mixed/Other — Gray&gt; [Edited]
In Arthurian legend, this object is described as a cup that could bring eternal youth and happiness. For 10 points:
Name this object, which is sought after by the Knights of the Round Table. In the 12th century, this object was identified with the chalice that collected the blood of Jesus during the crucifixion.
In the original Arthurian legend, this knight obtains the Holy Grail. In later versions, this knight does not obtain the Holy Grail but accompanies Sir Bors and Sir Galahad in their quest for it.
Sir Percival obtains the Holy Grail by this king, who rules the waste land. Sir Percival fails to heal this crippled king because he does not ask the healing question.
the Holy Grail
Sir Percival [or Sir Peredur or Sir Perceval or Sir Parzival or Sir Parsifal]
the Fisher King &lt;Mythology — Dai&gt; [Ed. French]
An epic simile compares an attack on this character to “a blacksmith plung[ing] a glowing ax or adze in an ice-cold bath.” For 10 points each:
Name this character. A “red geyser of blood” pours out of this inhospitable giant after his guests get him drunk and attack him.
The cyclops Polyphemus is blinded by this hero, whose journey home from the Trojan War is described in a Homeric epic.
Before blinding him, Odysseus tells Polyphemus that he is called by this name. The other cyclopes get confused when Polyphemus shouts out “[this name]’s killing me now by fraud and not by force.”
Polyphemus
Odysseus [accept The Odyssey or Ulysses]
Nobody [or No One or No Man or Outis; accept Nemo] &lt;Mythology — French&gt; [Edited]
<em>The</em> <em>Classic of Mountains and Seas</em> lists a bronze sculptural motif called the <em>taotie</em> among this many malevolent animals. For 10 points each:
Name this number. This number is considered bad luck in East Asian cultures because the word for it sounds like the word for death.
The Classic of Mountains and Seas also lists four benevolent animals, including this powerful animal that flies accompanied by lightning and thunder. This animal is the only mythical creature in the Chinese zodiac.
Another benevolent animal, the fènghuáng, is misleadingly translated as the Chinese version of this creature from Greek mythology. This animal may have been based on the Egyptian Bennu.
four [or sì]
Chinese dragon [or lóng]
phoenix &lt;Mythology — French&gt; [Edited]
An origin story attributed to this hero describes a primordial being named “Protogonos” or “Phanes” (fuh-NEEZ) who emerged from a cosmic egg. For 10 points each:
Name this hero from Greek mythology. This hero charmed Charon and Cerberus as he traveled to the underworld after his wife died of a snakebite.
Orpheus is the attributed author of a bizarre theogony that differs from traditional Greek mythology by stating that this god of wine became king of the gods after Zeus.
The traditional Greek theogony was described in this author’s aptly-titled poem, Theogony. This poet also wrote Works and Days.
Orpheus
Dionysus
Hesiod &lt;Mythology — French&gt; [Edited]
The Christian apologist Julius Firmicus Maternus believed that this deity was a projection of pagans’ impious desire to commit infidelities. For 10 points each:
Name this king of Olympus whose frequent affairs with nymphs and mortals often drew the wrath of his wife, Hera.
Another Christian, Lactantius, suggested that Zeus’ abduction of Ganymede in the form of an eagle actually referred to an abduction by one of these military forces, which carried eagle standards called aquilae.
This medieval Christian wrote that the Norse deities were actually mortal survivors of the sack of Troy in the prologue to the Prose Edda, which this writer compiled.
Zeus [accept Jupiter]
Roman legions [or legiones]
Snorri Sturluson [or Sturluson] &lt;Mythology — French&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about ancient Roman religion:
The top priest of ancient Roman religion was the pontifex maximus, whose purview influenced traditions regarding this religious title. Its current holder is Francis, who hails from Argentina.
The salii [say-lye] were a group of leaping priests who served this deity, who formed the Archaic Triad with Jupiter and Quirinus. Numa Pompilius dedicated a “campus” in the city of Rome to this god.
These priests were separate from the pontifices and were in charge of interpreting the feelings of the gods. They would interpret such omens as bird flight patterns or weather phenomena.
the pope
Mars Gradivus [accept Campus Martius]
augurs [or augures] &lt;EA, Religion&gt;
In one task, this woman is instructed by a talking reed to collect some golden wool that is caught on briers. For 10 points each:
Name this woman, who is assigned a series of seemingly impossible tasks after accidentally burning her husband, Cupid.
This mother of Cupid, who is the goddess of love, assigns Psyche her tasks.
In her first task, Psyche is assisted in sorting heaps of grain by some of these animals. In another myth, some of these animals were transformed into the Myrmidons.
Psyche
Venus [or Aphrodite]
ants &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
This goddess drifted away after consuming an elixir of immortality. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese goddess, who lives on the moon with a jade rabbit. She lends her name to China’s Lunar Exploration Program.
Chang’e is married to Houyi, a hero who uses one of these weapons to destroy nine of the ten suns that were burning up the earth. Gods who use these weapons include Apollo.
Altars to Chang’e are left out to absorb moonlight during this traditional Chinese festival, which is named for the eighth lunar month and typically occurs during September and October. This Chinese festival coincides with Chuseok in Korea and Tsukimi in Japan.
Chang’e [or Chang-o]
bows and arrows [or bows and arrows]
Mid-Autumn Festival [or Zhōngqiū Jié] &lt;WA, Mythology&gt;
At the onset of Ragnarok, this god seeks counsel from the severed head of Mimir, but most living things end up dying anyway. For 10 points each:
Name this Norse “All-Father,” who also receives counsel from two ravens named Hugin and Munin. He sacrificed an eye at Mimir’s well to gain wisdom.
At Ragnarok, Odin will be killed by this giant wolf, a son of Loki. This wolf also bit off Tyr’s hand.
Odin’s son Vidarr will avenge his father by killing Fenrir after wedging the wolf’s jaw open with this object, which he has constructed since the beginning of time from discarded scraps.
Odin [or Wodan; or Wotan]
Fenrir [or Fenrisulfr]
shoe [or boot] &lt;TB, Mythology&gt;
A man used this creature’s claws in order to skin it and get its pelt, which he ended up wearing for a long time. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical creature, which had to be strangled to death by a hero, as its skin is impenetrable by regular weapons like arrows.
Killing the Nemean Lion was the first of twelve labors that this Greek hero underwent. Other labors that this man went through included killing the Lernean Hydra and bringing Cerberus out of Hades.
Heracles was given his twelve labors by this cousin of his, who hid in a wine jar when Heracles brought him Cerberus for his twelfth and final labor.
Nemean Lion [prompt on lion]
Heracles [or Hercules]
Eurystheus &lt;EA, Mythology&gt;
This god used a fish trap to recover the hands of Osiris and used a net to catch the sons of Horus after they were born. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian fertility god, who had the head of a crocodile.
Sobek was closely associated with this Egyptian river, where he lived. The annual flooding of this river was believed to be controlled from two caves underneath Elephantine Island.
In one story, Sobek saves this many sons of Horus from drowning using a net. Those sons of Horus, who are this many in number, are depicted on Egyptian canopic jars.
Sobek [accept Sebek; or Sochet; or Sobk; or  Sobki]
Nile River
four &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
This figure forced his wife Sita to undergo a trial by fire to prove her purity after reclaiming her from the demon Ravana. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who fights the demon-king Ravana in his namesake epic.
The Ramayana is an epic central to the traditions of this major world religion.
While in exile, Sita took refuge near the ashram of this sage, who is traditionally said to be the author of the Ramayana. This sage later taught Sita’s twin boys, Lava and Kusha, to sing the story of Rama.
Rama [or Ramayana]
Hinduism
Valmiki &lt;TB, Mythology&gt;
After being taken to Crete, this woman is given gifts including the dog Laelaps, who can catch any prey. For 10 points each:
Name this Phoenecian princess and namesake of a continent, who is kidnapped by Zeus while in the form of a white bull.
After the dog Laelaps is sent to catch the uncatchable Teumessian one of these animals, both were turned into constellations. In Japan, kitsune [kit-soo-nay] are examples of these animals which can have as many as nine tails.
Another gift to Europa from Zeus is this giant bronze automaton which was used to protect Crete from invaders and pirates.
Europa
Teumessian fox [or nine-tailed fox]
Talos &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
During a contest, this goddess created three female deities from her brother's sword, while that brother created five male deities from a necklace belonging to this deity. For 10 points each:
Name this Shinto sun goddess, who hid in a cave after her brother, Susanoo, threw a flayed horse at her loom.
After being banished for throwing the flayed horse, Susanoo killed this eight-headed monster after making it fall asleep by getting it drunk on sake. The Grass-Cutter Sword was found in this monster’s body.
The first holder of this position, Jimmu, was legendarily guided by a three-legged crow and is believed to be a direct descendant of Amaterasu. The current holder of this position is named Naruhito.
Amaterasu Omikami [or Ohirume-no-muchi-no-kami]
Yamata no Orochi
Emperor of Japan [or tenno] &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about myths involving the huntress Atalanta:
Atalanta is most notable for being the first to strike during the hunt for one of these animals from Calydonia. After this animal was killed, Meleager awarded Atalanta its hide.
In another myth, Atalanta loses a footrace to Hippomenes after he distracts her with these objects. In the Garden of the Hesperides, these magical fruits are guarded by the dragon Ladon.
After Prince Iasus left Atalanta to die on a mountaintop as a baby, she was suckled by one of these animals. In another myth, the nymph Callisto is transformed into one of these animals by Hera.
boar [accept the Calydonian Boar]
golden apples [prompt on apples]
bear &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
In one story, this figure causes birds to be visible and in another, he learns how to produce fire from a tribe of intelligent birds. For 10 points each:
Name this Polynesian trickster who uses a lasso made of his sister’s hair and a fish hook to lengthen the day by restraining the sun.
Maui features heavily in myths from this U.S. state, where he is said to have pulled its islands to the surface.
This Hawaiian volcano goddess is said to live in Kilauea, where she is responsible for controlling lava flows.
Maui [mow-ee]
Hawaii
Pele [pel-ay] &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
In one myth, this deity uses worms and bees to create a trumpet out of a conch shell. For 10 points each:
Name this deity, who created the people of the fifth world using his blood and the bones of people from a previous world. This feathered serpent deity disappeared sailing east on a raft of serpents.
Quetzalcoatl appears in the religion of this Mesoamerican culture, who may have confused the arrival of Hernan Cortes for the return of Quetzalcoatl.
In one story, Tezcatlipoca [tez-caht-lee-POH-kah] used one of these objects as bait for the giant monster Cipactli. The Greek name “Oedipus” derives from a word for these objects.
Quetzalcoatl [ket-zal-co-aht-uhl]
Aztec
foot [or feet] &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
In Hinduism, one of these objects called Vajra is used to kill the serpent Vritra, and is wielded by a god who rides the white elephant Airavata. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, one of which was used to kill Asclepius, and which are wielded by deities such as Indra.
This chief god of the Slavs uses a lightning bolt to kill the serpentine god of the underworld, Veles, in a battle that is replayed every year.
While at the castle of Utgard-Loki, this other thunder god wrestles old age and fails to lift a cat that is actually the Midgard Serpent in disguise. This Norse god wields the hammer Mjolnir.
thunderbolt [or lightning bolts; prompt on lightning or thunder]
Perun
Thor &lt;WG, Mythology&gt;
According to Mu-ist mythology, Dangun was the legendary founder of this country. For 10 points each:
Name this Asian peninsula that neighbors Japan. It was prophesied that Emperor Chuai would conquer it, but his disbelief enraged the kami and he died, leaving his wife Jingu to conquer it.
Jingu was prophesied to invade Korea by three children of this deity. This creator god made the islands of Japan with his spouse, Izanami.
Name this Japanese kami of war, often identified with Ojin, the son of Empress Jingu. His name translates to “God of Eight Banners.”
Korea [do not accept or prompt on North or South Korea]
Izanagi
Hachiman [accept Hachiman-sin or Yawata no Kami] &lt;Mythology, DY&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Boats play an important role in many myth systems. For 10 points each:
Name this ship that contains wood from the grove of Dodona, allowing it to speak prophecies. This ship lends its name to the heroes who retrieved the Golden Fleece.
This ship is destined to depart to Vígríðr during Ragnarok after Jörmungandr’s rage sets it free. It is made up of the untrimmed nails of the dead and captained by the jötunn Hrym.
This chief Egyptian god rides the solar barge Mesektet every night through the Duat, fighting the giant serpent Apep. He is most commonly associated with the sun.
Argo
Naglfar [accept Naglfari]
Ra [accept Re] &lt;Mythology, DC&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This deity is sent by Ra to massacre insurgent humans, but turns into the gentle goddess Hathor after drinking beer dyed with red ochre. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian deity often associated with cats, a fierce goddess of war and vengeance.
This other feline deity was Sekhmet’s more benign counterpart in Lower Egypt. She was also worshipped as goddess of childbirth and fertility.
Bastet and Sekhmet were often portrayed as goddessses of this specific cat. The Sphinx has a woman’s head and the body of this large predatory feline.
Sekhmet
Bastet [accept Bast]
lion [accept lioness] &lt;Mythology, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Name some things about Zeus’ many lovers, for 10 points each:
Zeus turned this daughter of Inachus into a white heifer in order to protect her from the wrath of Hera. Hera was not fooled, however, and sent a gadfly to chase her around the world.
In another story, Zeus appeared before Leda as this white avian animal, which led to the conception of Helen and the Dioscuri.
When Hera tricked Semele into asking Zeus to appear in his true lightning-accompanied form, Zeus was forced to stitch the infant Dionysus into this body part of his to save him from the ensuing fire.
Io
swan
his thigh [accept leg] &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In some traditions, this deity is responsible for fathering Inti and Mama Quilla. For 10 points each:
Name this Incan creator god, who had Manco Capac and Mana Qullu repopulate the Earth after he used the waters of Lake Titicaca to drown the rest of mankind.
Similar to Quetzalcoatl, who did this on a raft of snakes, some legends tell of Viracocha performing this action at the end of his life, never to be seen again.
This prominently depicted feature of Viracocha has long been of interest to scholars of Pre-Columbian migrations. Instead of growing one from facial hair, Viracocha made one by attaching feathers to his chin.
Viracocha
sailing into the ocean [accept reasonable equivalents]
beard &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
Hubris does not only afflict men. Name some mythical women who met their downfall thanks to pride, for 10 points each:
This woman boasted that her artistic talent was superior to Athena. In some versions of the myth, she is turned into a spider after defeating the goddess in a weaving contest; in others, it is because her tapestry makes fun of Zeus.
This daughter of Tantalus boasted that she had more children than Leto, which led to the slaughter of her seven sons and seven daughters by the arrows of Apollo and Artemis.
The Pierides unwisely decided to challenge the Muses to a contest in this activity before being trounced by Calliope, the eldest Muse and mother of Orpheus.
Arachne
Niobe
singing [accept reasonable equivalents, prompt on music] &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Answer the following about the myth of Hippolytus, for 10 points each:
This Greek goddess of love swears to get revenge on Hippolytus, who spurns her in favor of his relationship with Artemis.
Aphrodite impels this stepmother of Hippolytus to fall in love with him, which eventually leads to her committing suicide in disgrace.
Phaedra is better known as the second wife of this hero, who fathered Hippolytus with the Amazon Antiope [[“an-TIE-oh-pee”]]. In another myth, he slew the Minotaur and abandoned Ariadne at Naxos on his return home.
Aphrodite
Phaedra
Theseus &lt;Mythology, DY&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
In one scene in Aeschylus’s <em>Agamemnon</em>, two prey-birds tear the belly of a pregnant hare as the Greeks are beached at Aulis. For 10 points each:
Calchas the clanseer interprets the pregnant hare to be this Asian city. The Greeks would fight a ten year war against this city over Paris’s abduction of Helen.
The invasion of Troy was stymied by Artemis, who was stung with pity for the hare. In order to sail, Agamemnon was forced to sacrifice this girl, his eldest daughter.
Agamemnon is later murdered by this character, his wife and the mother of Iphigenia. At the beginning of Agamemnon, this woman expresses hatred for her husband’s new concubine Cassandra.
Troy
Iphigenia
Clytemnestra &lt;Drama, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about dragons in Norse Myth:
Name this archetypical dragon slain by Sigurd the Volsung. He was formerly the son of the Dwarf king Hreidmar and the brother of Regin.
Fafnir's lair contains large piles of this precious metal as a result of his being cursed by Andvari's ring to lust after treasure. The presence of this metal in dragon lairs has become a common motif in fantasy depictions.
A more ancient dragon named Nidhogg is found inexplicably gnawing at the roots of this Norse world-tree encircled by the dragon-serpent Jormungandr.
Fafnir
Gold
Yggdrasil &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
One of these creatures named Polybotes was crushed by the island Nisyros after being pursued by Poseidon. For 10 points each:
Name these beings created by Gaia to topple Olympus, led by their king Porphyrion. An oracle prophesied that the gods had to fight side-by-side with mortals in order to defeat these creatures.
Heracles was brought to Olympus to assist the gods in fighting the giants, having earlier died by a scheme of one of these creatures, Nessus. These half-horse, half-men were born from Ixion and a cloud.
Unlike his siblings, this Giant could not be killed as long as he remained in his homeland, Pallene. On the advice of Athena, Heracles dragged this Giant out of Pallene, where he was promptly slain.
giants [accept Gigantes, Gigantomachy, or Gigantomachia; do not accept or prompt on “titans”]
centaurs
Alcyoneus [accept Alkyoneus] &lt;Mythology, DC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Answer the following about the Prose Edda, for 10 points each:
Name this king of Sweden who disguises himself as Gangleri and questions the three lords High, Just-As-High, and Third in the first part of the Prose Edda.
High, Just-As-High, and Third are pseudonyms employed by this one-eyed Norse god, the All-Father of the Norse Pantheon.
The second part of the Prose Edda, the Skaldskaparmal, is named after these professional verse writers. Odin stole a mead named for these people from Suttung.
Gylfi
Odin
poets [prompt on skalds] &lt;Mythology, DY&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the origin of the Golden Fleece:
The Golden Fleece came from the ram which carried Helle and this other son of Athamas and Nephele over the Black Sea. While Helle fell off and died, this youth was able to arrive safely at Colchis.
Phrixus was forced to leave Boeotia due to the machinations of Ino, the daughter of this founder of Thebes who sowed dragon’s teeth to create the Spartoi.
After arriving at Colchis, Phrixus sacrificed the ram and gave the Fleece to King Aeëtes, who hung it in a holy grove of this Greek god of war.
Phrixus
Cadmus
Ares &lt;Mythology, DY&gt;&lt;ed. AH and OC&gt;
Has anyone seen the new Aquaman movie? It is another rewrite of the legend of this mythical King of Britain. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Uther Pendragon who won the throne of England by drawing a sword from a stone, according to the account of Geoffrey of Monmouth.
In that account, not only does Arthur bring peace to Britain, but he defeats a massive army led by one of these figures named Lucius Tiberius.
The bad fanfictions start to kick off in the 12th century with the French writer Chrétien de Troyes, who decided that this adulterous Lord of Joyous Gard ought to have an affair with Guinevere.
King Arthur
Emperor of Rome
Lancelot du lac &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This mythical figure is often compared to Achilles for his tendency to enter into an unstoppable killing rage, or <em>ríastrad</em>. For 10 points each.
Name this demigod hero, son of Deichtine and Lugh, whose exploits are described in the Ulster Cycle.
One of his early exploits was assigned to him by his father-in-law Forgall the Wily, who sent him on a mission to kill this Amazonian warrior who would later teach him the art of war.
Cú Chulainn is perhaps most famous for a great war fought over a horned one of these animals. In another tale, the Morrígan appears to him as an old woman and gives him three drinks of milk from one of these animals.
Cú Chulainn [accept Sétanta]
Scathatch
cows [accept equivalents like bulls] &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
According to the Aztecs, we currently live in the era of the Fifth Sun, an era that was set into motion by the sacrifice of this humblest of gods. For 10 points each:
Name this sore-covered god who self-immolated in order to become the current sun.
The previous age was ended by this type of natural disaster that nobody survived after Tezcatlipoca upset the goddess Chauchaulticue.
The role of the fourth sun was assumed by this “feathered-serpent” god of light and wind who created the current race of mankind.
Nanahuatzin [accept Nanahuatl]
flood
Quetzalcoatl &lt;Mythology, AH&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This object was made so its creator could marry the Maiden of Pohjola [po-hoy-ya]. For 10 points each:
Name this ambiguous object, usually identified as a mill. Louhi attempted to steal it back, but dropped everything but the lid, which explains why the sea is salty.
The Sampo appears in this Finnish national epic, compiled by Elias Lonnrot.
This hero leads the trip to steal the Sampo with Ilmarinen from Louhi before she tries to take it back again. This sorcerer and inventor of the Kantele is the primary protagonist of the Kalevala.
(the) Sampo [or (the) Sammas; accept Kirjokansi]
Kalevala [or Kalewala or The New Kalevala; accept The Land(s) of Kaleva or The Homestead of the People of Kaleva or Kalevia or Poems from the Kaleva District; accept The Old Kalevala or Old Karelian Poems from the Ancient Days of the Finnish People]
Vainamoinen [or Wainamoinen]
<strong></strong> This magical item was first introduced in Charles Perrault’s version of Hop-o’-My-Thumb. For 10 points each:
Name this footwear which lets the user walk approximately 21 miles in a single step. They are related to, but better-named than, the Russian “fast-walker boots.”
Vithar uses his Thickmost Shoe to kill this wolf at Ragnarok. Like the Midgard Serpent, this canine is a son of Loki.
Helskor were shoes placed on the feet of the dead with which to walk to Valhalla, which would presumably involve crossing this rainbow bridge guarded by Heimdall.
Seven-League Boots
Fenrir [or Fenris]
Bifrost [or Bilrost or Bivrost; accept Asbru]
<strong></strong> This “Foremost of the Westerners” was syncretized with Ptah-Seker, who was already a synthesis of Ptah and Seker. For 10 points each:
Name this husband of Isis.
Ceremonial dramatic works depicting the life of Osiris are given this name, as they mirror plays popularize in Medieval times which depicted Christ’s crucifixion.
Passion plays about Osiris were performed in this city, the primary cult center of Isis and Osiris. Its Osireion was built for Seti I, though he was buried in the Valley of the Kings.
Osiris [or Asir; or Wesir; or Usir; or wsjr]
passion play(s)
Abydos
These objects are used to celebrate the Ambubachi Mela. For 10 points each:
Name this representation of Shakti in the form of a dish with a spout.
Yoni are often used in conjunction with and physically connected to the lingam which represent this Hindu destroyer god.
For seducing Ahalya, this god was cursed to be covered in a thousand marks of the yoni which became eyes. He slayed Vritra, with his Vajra, a thunderbolt.
yoni(s)
Shiva
Indra
Either this man or his father Poeas lights Heracles funeral pyre, for which Heracles grants him his weapons. For 10 points each:
Name this hero, stranded on the island of Lemnos because of his wounded foot. Odysseus and Diomedes rescue him after hearing from Helenus that they need his weapon to win the Trojan War.
Philoctetes was proficient with this weapon, which he uses with Heracles’ poisoned arrows.
Heracles comes down from Olympus to tell Philoctetes he should seek a son of this god to heal him. This father of Machaon and Po·da·lir·ius was the son of Apollo and was a god of medicine whose temples contained non-venomous snakes.
Philoctetes
bow
Asclepius [or Aesculapius; or Asklepios; accept Aesculapian snakes]
According to everyone who isn’t everyone’s favorite mythographer An<strong>·</strong>ton<strong>·</strong>in<strong>·</strong>us Liberalis, Dionysius turned the Min<strong>·</strong>ya<strong>·</strong>des into these creatures for refusing to worship him. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures. A god of them named Camazotz decapitates Hu·nah·pu after he peeks his head out to see if daylight has come before the Lords of Death play a ball game with that head.
Camazots live in the Bat House, which appears in the underworld of the Maya as described in this book.
Mayan heroes Hunahpu and Xbalanque ["shbah-lan-KAY"] have this relationship. Castor and Pollux also had this relationship.
bats [or Chiroptera]
Popol Vuh [“vookh”; accept Popol Wuj; accept The Council Book or Book of Council or Book of the People or Book of the Community ; accept “Our Place in the Shadows” or “The Light That Came From Beside the Sea” or “The Dawn of Life”]
Twins [accept Hero Twins; prompt on “brothers”]
Answer the following about the “princess and dragon” motif, for 10 points each:
The earliest known instance of the motif sees this hero save the princess Andromeda from the sea monster Cetus.
This hero saves a princess named Sabra, Aia, or Cleodolinda, though she is anonymous in the Golden Legend. This patron saint of England slays the dragon when the inhabitants of Silene promise to convert and be baptized.
Bogatyrs kill dragons called Zmey [zMAY] in this people’s folklore, but rarely stay with the princesses they save.
Perseus
Saint George of Lydda
(East) Slavs [or Russians or Ukrainians or any other Slavic group; accept word forms]
This god is possibly an amalgam of three or five others, and is also ambiguously either the husband of Uke Mochi or Uke Mochi herself. For 10 points each:
Name this highly venerated androgynous rice god who employs kitsune as messengers.
The kitsune Inari employs are these animals. Those that he/she/it/ they use as messengers are a lucky white, and can have up to nine tails.
This kami killed Uke Mochi in the earliest versions of the myth, after which his sister wife Amaterasu refuses to see him ever again. This moon kami was born from the right eye of Izanagi, whereas the sun goddess Amaterasu was born from the left one, and Susanoo was born out of his nose.
Inari Okami [or Oinari; or Inari no Kami]
foxes [or Vulpes vulpes]
Tsukuyomi-no-Mikoto
This empire’s leaders claimed descent from the sun god Inti. For ten points each:
Name this Quechoa-speaking empire with capital at Cuzco that was conquered by Francisco Pizarro.
The Incans worshipped many gods including this creator deity who wears the sun as a crown and has thunderbolts for hands.
This Incan god of the underworld has a name meaning ‘devil’. A dance for this god is performed during the Mamacha Candicha ritual.
Incan Empire
Viracocha
Supay
In this epic, the title character angers Ishtar by rejecting her advances, so she sends the bull of heaven to wreak havoc upon his land. For ten points each:
Name this epic poem about a man who seeks immortality after the death of his best friend.
This is Gilgamesh’s best friend. He is initially sent down to kill Gilgamesh, but ends up humanizing him after they realize that they are an even match.
Utnapishtim eventually tells Gilgamesh where to find an herb that will grant him immortality, but this animal eats it while Gilgamesh is asleep.
The Epic of Gilgamesh
Enkidu
a snake
This deity rides the elephant Airavata and slew the serpent Vritra. For ten points each:
Name this Vedic god of storms who lives atop Mount Meru and, with Angi, leads the Devas.
Indra is featured in this ancient collection of Sanskrit hymns. It consists of 10 books called mandalas.
This other group of Vedic deities competes against the Inra and the Devas for power and was divided into Daityas and Danavas. In earlier texts, the Devas are also considered part of this group.
Indra
Rigveda
Asuras (do not accept or prompt on “suras”)
One character in this work struggles with his obligation to kill Bhishma and Drona. For ten points each:
Name this 700 verse Sanskrit poem from the Mahabharata, a dialogue between a Pandava prince and his charioteer Lord Krishna.
This son of Indra is the main character of the Bhagavad Gita. In the Mahabharata, this man and his allies defeat the Kauravas.
Arjuna’s victory over the Kauravas comes during this 18-day conflict. Despite millions of participants, only twelve major warriors survived this war, including Satyaki and Yuyutsu.
Bhagavad Gita
Arjuna
Kurukshetra War (accept Battle of Kurukshetra)
This figure’s soul occupied the ram god Banebjedet and his spine is commonly represented by the Djed pillar. For ten points each:
Name this Egyptian god of the underworld whose wife Isis failed to put him back together after he was cut up into fourteen pieces by his brother Set.
In an earlier attempt to kill Osiris, Set trapped Osiris in a box that floated down the Nile and ended up in a tree in this Phoenician city.
This wife and sister of Set mourned Osiris’ loss with Isis and gave birth to Anubis, the god of the afterlife.
Osiris
Byblos
Nephthys
This brother of Vili and Ve gets information from his ravens Huginn and Muninn, and he rides the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. For ten points each:
Name this chief Norse god who will be eaten by Fenrir during Ragnarok.
Odin sacrificed this part of his body at Mimir’s Spring in order to drink and gain the world’s knowledge.
Mimir’s Spring is located at the base of the world tree Yggdrasil, home to this squirrel who carrys messages from the eagle at the tree’s top to the dragon below its roots.
Odin
eye
Ratatoskr
Robert de Boron described Joseph of Arimathea’s acquisition of this object. For ten points each:
Name this cup that Jesus used at the Last Supper which was sought after by King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table.
This knight of the Round Table was able to sit at the Siege Perilous as it was his destiny to find the Holy Grail.
This knight pursued the Holy Grail before Galahad. This man meets the Fisher King before Galahad rescues him from a group of rival knights.
: Holy Grail
: Sir Galahad
Sir Percival
For ten points each, name some of the mythical monsters found in Homer’s <em>Odyssey</em>.
Odysseus and his men encounter one of these creatures in a cave, a one-eyed giant named Polyphemus.
After passing the sirens, Odysseus inched his way between the monster Scylla and this monster, a giant whirlpool with teeth.
On the island of these cannibal giants, Odysseus loses all his ships except for his own, as well as most of his men.
cyclopes (or cyclops)
Charybdis
Laestrygonians
This pair used a mosquito to correctly identify the lords of Xibalba among a group of mannequins. For ten points each:
Name this pair that survived the Dark House before allowing the Xibalbans to win a ballgame. Their real names are Hunahpu and Xbalanque.
The Hero Twins feature in the mythology of this Mesoamerican civilization whose tales are recorded in the Popul Vuh.
These four deities, who are thought to be the sons of the supreme deity Itzamná, represent the four cardinal directions and hold up the sky.
Hero Twins
Mayan Civilization
the Bacabs
This man defeated a fire-breathing goblin named Aillen by holding a spear to his forehead, allowing him to resist a sleep-inducing song. For 10 points each:
Name this warrior figure of Celtic mythology who lead the Fianna after ousting the traitor Goll Mac Morna.
Finn Mac Cumaill is the hero of this cycle of Irish mythology, often compared to the Ulster, Invasions, and Historical cycles.
This man is the primary narrator of the Fenian Cycle. This son of Finn Mac Cumaill fell off of his horse while on his way to visit his father, trapping him outside of the Land of Youth forever.
Finn Mac Cumaill (pronounced ‘Finn MacCool’)
Fenian Cycle (accept Ossian Cycle)
Oisin (pronounced ‘Usheen’)
Name these pitiful and/or deserving people who were killed by Artemis. For ten points each:
This queen of Thebes bragged that she had more children than Artemis’s mother Leto, so Artemis and Apollo slew her children and turned her to stone. In one speech, Hamlet compares Gertrude’s grief to that of this woman.
After this hunter saw Artemis bathing, she turned him into a stag and sicced his own dogs on him.
This other hunter boasted that his skill exceeded that of Artemis, so the goddess killed this man with a giant boar.
Niobe
Acteon
Adonis
This group included a son of Poseidon and Gaia who was invincible as long as he was touching the ground. For ten points each:
Name this group from Greek mythology, led by Cronus and Rhea, which was overthrown by Zeus and preceded the Olympians.
This titaness of memory was worshipped in the cult of Asclepius, the god of medicine, and was the mother of the nine Muses.
This titan was the father of the Hesperides and the Pleiades and was forced to hold the Earth on his shoulders for all eternity. This being names a mountain range in Morocco.
Titans
Mnemosyne
Atlas
This goddess forms a trio with the sun god Shamash and the moon god Sin as she personifies Venus. For ten points each:
Name this goddess of Babylonian mythology who sent the Bull of Heaven to attack Gilgamesh after he rejected her love.
After being rejected by Gilgamesh, Ishtar went to be with her former lover Tammuz in the underworld, where she was forced to remove all of her clothing by this goddess of the underworld.
This other significant Babylonian deity became more popular in later mythology as the chief and patron god of Babylon.
Ishtar
Irkalla (accept Ereshkigal)
Marduk
This deity immolated himself in a stone chest after getting drunk and cavorting with his sister, a priestess. For ten points each:
Name this Aztec god of wind and wisdom who is worshipped at the Temple of the Feathered Serpent.
This brother of Quetzalcoatl tricked him into becoming drunk, leading to his self-immolation. His name is usually translated as “smoking mirror.”
This other Aztec deity created the world with Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca and was the patron deity of Tenochtitlan. He is the primary Aztec god of war.
Quetzalcoatl
Tezcatlipoca
Huitzilopochtli
These creatures are known as ceasg in Scotland, rusalkas in Eastern Europe, and maneli in Ancient Persia. For ten points each:
Name these mythological beings generally imagined with the torso of a woman and the tail of a fish.
These Celtic maidens of the sea often marry the men who steal their seal skins, at least until they can return to the water.
These Japanese “mermaids” are often depicted as hideous creatures, but those who catch and eat them are said to have eternal youth and a long life.
mermaids
selkies (accept selchies)
ningyos
Vishnu, the Hindu god of preservation, descends to earth in the form of an avatar when order needs to be restored. For ten points each, name these avatars of Vishnu:
This being is the eighth and most famous avatar of Vishnu. He features heavily in the Bhagavad Gita and is often depicted playing the bansuri flute.
This seventh avatar of Vishnu is chronicled in a Sanskrit epic poem in which he fights the demon Ravana.
This avatar, often depicted as a fish, is classically listed as the first avatar and is associated with the creation of the world and savior of the first man, Manu.
Krishna
Rama
Matsya
Ragnarok is forecast to be a pretty violent time. Answer some questions about all the deaths that are fated to happen then, for 10 points each.
Heimdall and this Norse trickster god, who is mostly responsible for the predicted carnage, are fated to kill each other.
This creature, a son of Loki, is fated to kill Odin at Ragnarok. In the meantime, this animal is bound with a chain made of six paradoxical substances like a woman’s beard and a fish’s breath.
Odin is also fated to be avenged by this silent son of his, who will kill Fenrir by stomping on his jaw with a special boot he obsessively thickens for that purpose. He will also manage to survive Ragnarok.
Loki [or Loptr or Hveðrungr]
Fenrir [or Fenrisulfr, Hroðvitnir, or Vanagandr; accept translations like the Fenris Wolf, the fen-dweller, the Fame-Wolf or the Monster of the River Van]
Viðarr (Note: “ð” is an “eth,” so accept answers that pronounce it as a “th” sound or as a “d” sound.) &lt;BY&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the <em>Mabinogion</em>, the primary collection of Welsh mythology:
The Mabinogion includes many stories about the king Bran the Blessed, whose name probably translates to this kind of animal. Odin owns two of these animals named Huginn and Muninn.
This son of Pwyll and Rhiannon is one of seven survivors of Bran’s expedition. This king of Dyfed is the only character to appear in all four branches of the Mabinogion, and he dies in battle against the wizard Gwydion.
The Mabinogion also contains a section called The Dream of Rhonabwy, in which this king’s soldiers are attacked by ravens while he plays chess. This king is better-known for leading the Knights of the Round Table.
ravens [accept crows; prompt on birds]
Pryderi
King Arthur &lt;JG&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the archer Arjuna:
Arjuna’s charioteer and companion was this flute-playing eighth avatar of Vishnu. This figure urges Arjuna to fight the Kauravas in the Bhagavad Gita.
Prior to the major events of the Mahabharata, Arjuna marries Subhadra, who has this relation to Krishna. These relatives give each other gifts on Diwali.
Arjuna and Subhadra are the parents of this great warrior, who died after breaking into the Chakravyuha formation of the Kauravas and getting surrounded. In his last stand, he fought the Kauravas with a chariot wheel.
Krishna
brothers and sisters [accept any answer indicating siblings]
Abhimanyu &lt;AF&gt; Tiebreaker
After fleeing her brother in Tyre, this woman claimed a hill by surrounding it with strips of oxhide. For 10 points each:
Name this queen who committed suicide after her lover left for Italy. This queen had an ambiguously-worded rendezvous with that lover in a cave during a stormy hunt.
Dido fell in love with Aeneas under the influence of his mother, who was this Roman goddess of love and beauty.
When Aeneas ventured into the Underworld to meet with his father, he encountered Dido in a grove of this kind of tree. This tree was sacred to Venus.
Dido [accept Elissa]
Venus [accept Aphrodite]
the myrtle tree &lt;CX&gt;
This substance inadvertently caused Chiron such pain that he gave up immortality. For 10 points each:
Name this substance that caused the death of Heracles, after Deianira was tricked into giving him a shirt coated in the blood of the centaur Nessus, into which Heracles had introduced this substance.
Heracles had used the Hydra’s venom to coat the tips of these weapons. Paris killed Achilles with one of these weapons, and Heracles bequeathed his still-toxic ones to Philoctetes.
In agony from the Hydra’s venom, Heracles built himself a funeral pyre and became a god. He then married this goddess of youth, whom Ganymede replaced as cupbearer.
the Lernaean Hydra’s venom [accept reasonable equivalents like Hydra poison; accept the Hydra’s blood and; prompt on just venom or blood]
arrows [accept bow and arrow, but do not accept or prompt on “bows” alone]
Hebe &lt;CX&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about city walls in Greek mythology:
Using a combination of good music and brute force, Zethus and Amphion built the walls of this city, which was originally founded by Cadmus.
According to Strabo, the residents of Tiryns contracted these beings to build their walls. The Greeks also credited the walls of Mycenae, not to mention Zeus’s thunderbolts, to these one-eyed beings.
This father of Priam refused to reward Poseidon and Apollo for building the walls of Troy. Heracles and his sons saved this man’s daughter Hesione from the monster sent in revenge.
Thebes
the Cyclopes [or Cyclops; accept Cyclopses]
Laomedon &lt;CX&gt;
The dwarf Andvari created one of these objects whose curse turned Fafnir into a dragon. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, one of which Odin placed on Baldr’s funeral pyre. That object, called Draupnir or “the dripper,” could create eight identical copies of itself every ninth night.
Draupnir is made out of gold, just like sets of these objects that were owned by Idunn and Eris.
This goddess received a golden replacement after Loki stole her original hair. Thor slew Hrungnir after he bragged that he would kill the gods and take this goddess and Freyja as concubines.
rings [also accept answers like armbands; prompt on treasure; prompt on jewelry; prompt on but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL gold]
apples [prompt on fruit]
Sif &lt;JG&gt;
In Yoruba mythology, Olorun sent Obatala to create a home for the first humans out of one of these places. For 10 points each:
Name these places, a personification of which was married by his sister Tethys. Apsu and Tiamat represented one of these places in Babylonian mythology, and Ra emerged from one called Nun by saying his own name.
In Hindu mythology, the primordial ocean is composed of this substance. This substance is produced by Kamadhenu and other examples of an animal that’s sacred in Hinduism.
The Samudra Manthan, or brewing of the ocean of milk, also produced Dhanvantari, a god of medicine, who was born holding a pot of this nectar of immortality. It’s called “soma” in the Vedas.
a primordial ocean [or sea; accept Oceanus; prompt on rivers]
milk
amrita &lt;JG&gt;
In Hittite myth, the gods are often plagued by monsters of this type like Hedammu and Illuyanka. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures, one of which is called Apep and nightly attacks the solar barge in Egyptian mythology. Aborigines revere a “rainbow” one of them, and the priestess of Delphi was named for one called Python.
After slaying the eight-headed serpent Yamata-no-Orochi, the Shinto kami Susano’o found one of these objects in its tail. Many kami had objects of this kind described as “of ten fists’ length.”
A number of myth systems depict great horned serpents like Uncegila as enemies of these creatures. In other stories, these creatures oppose the “underwater panthers” and kill evil whales.
giant snakes [accept serpents; prompt on dragon]
swords [accept katanas]
Thunderbirds [prompt on answers like birds] &lt;JG&gt;
Alcyone killed herself in this manner after learning that her hubristic husband died at sea. For 10 points each:
Name this rather frequent manner of death in Greek mythology, which befell Icarus after the wax in his wings melted, and which befell Aegeus after Theseus forgot to take down his black sails.
The Hellespont got its name after Helle fell off of this flying mammal and drowned there. This animal carried Helle’s brother safely to Colchis, where King Aeetes sacrificed it.
This man from Abydos swam across the Hellespont every night to meet with a priestess of Aphrodite, but drowned one night when a storm blew out the lamp that his lover lit to guide him.
drowning [also accept answers like falling into the sea or jumping into the sea, prompt on any answer that involves jumping or falling but does not specify doing so into a body of water]
The Golden Fleece [or the crysomallon deras; accept answers like “a golden, winged ram” or “the sheep with the Golden Fleece,” since the fleece is technically just its hide; prompt on partial answers]
Leander [or Leandros] &lt;CX&gt;
In Hesiod, these phenomena are represented by a primordial trio called the Oneiroi. For 10 points each:
Name these experiences governed by Morpheus. Supplicants to Asclepius hoped to be cured through having these experiences.
Athena visited this hero in a dream while he was sleeping in one of her temples and gave him a golden bridle. This hero used that bridle to tame Pegasus, which he rode when he slew the Chimera.
The Oneiroi, Thanatos, Hypnos, and Geras, were the children of this primordial entity with Erebus, or Darkness. Zeus never punishes the Oneiroi for anything because of his fear of this goddess.
dreams [accept reasonable equivalents, including nightmares; prompt on sleeping or similar answers]
Bellerophon
Nyx [prompt on answers like “the Night”] &lt;CX&gt; Tiebreaker
While pregnant, this woman was exiled for a second time; she then gave birth to Kusha and Lava in the house of Valmiki. For 10 points each:
Name this princess who is abducted by Ravana. This woman is the best-known avatar of Lakshmi.
Sita is the wife of this avatar of Vishnu and namesake of a Hindu epic. This man is exiled from the court of his father Dasharatha at the beginning of that namesake epic.
This favorite queen of Dasharatha forces Rama to exile himself so that her son, Bharata, will be first in the line of succession of Ayodhya.
Sita
Rama [accept Ramayana]
Kaikeyi &lt;AF&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some questions about plants named for figures from Greek mythology:
The hyacinth is named for Hyacinthos, a lover of Apollo who was killed by one of these objects. Perseus accidentally killed Acrisius with one of these objects.
This hunter turned into his namesake flower after falling in love with his own reflection. This unrequited love of Echo is also the source of a term for excessive self-admiration.
When Hades had an affair with a water nymph, Persephone transformed her into this aromatic plant, which is named after her. This plant was also used in Ancient Greek funerary rites.
a discus
Narcissus
mint [or Menthe; do not accept or prompt on any specific type of mint (e.g. peppermint)] &lt;BY&gt;
One of these gods tricked the other into entering a boat race in a stone boat. For 10 points each:
Name these two Egyptian gods, whose “contendings” involved one, a falcon-headed protector of the pharaohs, attempting to kill the other one, who had murdered his father Osiris.
In one story, Set tried to ambush Horus as a red one of these Nile-dwelling mammals. The goddess of childbirth, Taweret, is usually depicted as an anthropomorphic one of these large, thick-skinned mammals.
This goddess is considered Horus’s “nursing-mother” for her role in protecting him in his youth. Despite that, she is usually depicted as Set’s wife, and in some myths conceived Anubis by disguising herself as Isis.
Horus AND Seth
Hippopotamuses
Nephthys &lt;JG&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about people who killed their mothers in Greek mythology:
Orestes killed his mother Clytemnestra to avenge the murder of his father, who was this king of Mycenae and overall commander of the Greeks during the Trojan War.
This king of Iolcus and his brother Neleus killed their step-mother Sidero in a temple of Hera, earning her hatred. This man is better-known for sending Jason on the quest for the Golden Fleece.
Matricides like Orestes and the Epigonos Alcmaeon were often pursued by these relentless goddesses of vengeance. In the case of Orestes, Athena managed to cow these beings into becoming “kindly ones.”
Agamemnon
Pelias
Furies [accept the Erinyes, Dirae, or Chthoniai Theai; prompt on Eumenides] &lt;CX&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about people from Greek myths who misbehave and then turn into animals:
After Callisto broke her vows of chastity, Artemis changed her into one of these animals. Callisto and her son by Zeus became the constellations Ursa Major and Ursa Minor, which represent this kind of animal.
Cybele turned Atalanta and Hippomenes into these animals after they had sex in a temple. Pyramus killed himself after he saw one of these animals with Thisbe’s veil, and Heracles killed the Cithaeronian one of them.
After feeding his son to Zeus to test his omniscience, Callisto’s father Lycaon was transformed into one of these animals.
a bear [accept more specific answers like she-bears]
lion [accept more specific answers like lionesses]
a wolf [accept more specific answers like werewolf or lycanthrope, since Lycaon is often described as turning into a wolf-man instead of just a wolf] &lt;MK&gt;
Bonus: The ravens Hugin and Munin report everything that they see and hear in the world to this god. For ten points each:
Name this Norse God who, according to myth, gave up one of his eyes in order to gain wisdom. He also managed to obtain and drink part of the mead of poetry.
Some sources claim that the thing Odin once hung himself from for nine days was this Norse world tree. The dragon Nidhogg constantly gnaws at a root of this tree.
These female beings are responsible for the destiny of men and gods in Norse mythology. They are often depicted while weaving near the Well of Fate under Yggdrasil.
Odin
Yggdrasil
the Norns &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Because earthquakes occurred when he struck his weapon on the ground, this god was often referred to as “earth-shaker.” For ten points each:
Name this Greek god of the sea.
Poseidon once had intercourse with this woman on the floor of a temple dedicated to Athena, prompting Athena to turn this woman into a monster. Perseus was able to kill this woman by looking at her through the reflection of his shield.
This giant, along with Pegasus, emerged out of Medusa’s head after Perseus killed her. His name comes from the fact that he wields a golden sword.
Poseidon
Medusa
Chrysaor &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This god took on the forms of a turtle and a fish, and his mount is the bird-like Garuda, for ten points each:
Name this Hindu preserver god, a member of the trimurti, whose twelve avatars include the blue-skinned Krishna.
A certain Sanskrit mantra repeats the phrases “Hare [HA-ray] Krishna” and “Hare [this god]”. This seventh avatar of Vishnu also names a Hindu epic in which he travels to Lanka to rescue his wife Sita.
In that epic, the Ramayana, this ten-headed demon king of Lanka abducts Rama’s wife Sita.
Vishnu
Rama [accept Ramayana]
Ravana &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: These gods reside in Vanaheim. For ten points each:
Name this group of Norse gods who merged with the Aesir after a namesake war with them.
This wealthy Vanir god was exchanged to be with the Aesir gods along with his son Freyr.
This daughter of Njord and twin sister of Freyr is the Norse goddess of love and beauty.
Vanir
Njord
Freyja &lt;AN&gt;
Bonus: When this man’s son, Phaethon, accidentally drives this god’s chariot out of control, Zeus strikes him down with a lightning bolt. For ten points each:
Name this titan who drives his chariot of the sun across the sky every day.
Helios’s cattle are located on this island, which is guarded by his daughter Lampetia. When Odysseus lands on this island, he makes his crew swear to not touch any of the cattle, but they do, and all of them are killed except for Odysseus.
Before stopping at Thrinacia, Odysseus passed these two sea monsters, which ate six of his men. Thanks to help from Thetis, the Argonauts safely traveled through the channel containing these two monsters. Name either.
Helios
Thrinacia [or Trinacria, Thrinacie]
Scylla or Charybdis [accept either, accept both] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: When this woman was told she could have as much land as she could cover with the hide of an ox, she cut the hide into thin strips and encircled a hill. For ten points each:
Name this queen of Carthage, who famously committed suicide by falling on a sword that was given to her by her lover.
That lover of hers was this man, who fled Troy after it was sacked at the end of the Trojan War. This son of Venus is the subject of an epic by Virgil.
This father of Aeneas became lame when Zeus struck him in the foot with a thunderbolt after bragging that he had an affair with Venus, so Aeneas had to carry him out of Troy on his back. Unfortunately, he died before they could reach Italy.
Dido [accept Elissa]
Aeneas
Anchises &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Name some Aztec Gods, for 10 points each:
This Aztec god, whose name means “feathered serpent,” created mankind by going to the underworld and using bones and his blood. He is also the god of the morning star.
This other god and son of Ometeotl was often considered the rival god of Quetzalcoatl. This god was celebrated during an 18-day period known as the Toxcatl.
The Templo Mayor in Tenochtitlan was dedicated to Huitzilopochtli and this other god. Aztecs believed that this god of rain lived in a mountain named after him.
Quetzalcoatl
Tezcatlipoca
Tlaloc &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: At the beginning of this event, Heimdall blows on his horn to wake and alert the other gods. For ten points each:
Name this Norse apocalypse in which many of the gods are killed.
During Ragnarok, this wolf swallows Odin, but is later killed when Odin’s son kicks him. When he was originally tied up, Tyr put his hand in this wolf’s mouth to make him believe he wasn’t bound, but he was, and Tyr lost his hand.
When Ragnarok begins, these two humans hide in a forest, and come out after it ends to repopulate the earth. Name both of them.
Ragnarok [prompt on the end of the world or other similar things]
Fenrir
Lif and Lifthrasir [accept either order, prompt on single answer] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about people who only spend part of their time in the underworld. For ten points each:
This daughter of Demeter was abducted by Hades and soon released, but she was forced to spend every winter in the underworld because she ate pomegranate seeds while there.
Although one of these two twins was immortal, the other was mortal. After one of them died, the other requested to share his immortality with the dead one, so one would be in the underworld while the other was with the dead. Name both.
Castor, Pollux, and their half-sisters Helen of Troy and Clytemnestra were both children of this wife of Tyndareus that was raped by Zeus as a swan. The affair resulted in this woman laying two eggs that would hatch into her children.
Persephone [accept Cora]
Castor and Pollux [both required, prompt on single answer. Or Castor and Polyduces, accept either order, prompt on Dioscuri, Castores, or Gemini]
Leda &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This goddess was given the sword Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi as a gift of forgiveness from her brother. For 10 points each:
Name this goddess who fled into a cave after that brother threw a flayed horse at her loom. She was later lured out of the cave when another goddess started dancing on a tub.
Amaterasu was the daughter of this other god. After his wife died by giving birth to the fire god, he went to the underworld to try to bring her back, but he was unsuccessful.
Amaterasu and Izanagi are both gods, or kami, from the Shinto religion, which is from this Asian country.
Amaterasu-omikami [accept Ohirume-no-muchi-no-kami]
Izanagi-no-mikoto [accept Izanagi-no-Okami, do not accept Izanami]
Japan [or Nippon; or Nihon] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Hercules rescued this man from the underworld when completing his 12th labor. For ten points each:
Name this ancient Greek hero who slew the Minotaur. He didn’t get lost in the labyrinth because he tied a ball of string to its entrance and followed it to get out.
When Theseus was traveling to Athens, he met this criminal, who would stretch people or amputate them in order to make them fit on an iron bed. Theseus killed him by fitting him to his own bed.
Before he left to kill the Minotaur, Theseus told his father that if he died, the sails of his ship would be this color. When Theseus returned alive, he forgot to change his sails from this color, so his father jumped off a cliff and died.
Theseus
Procrustes
black &lt;MS&gt;
For 10 points each—give these answers related to death rituals
Chiefs and Shamans of the American northwest were crushed and placed in boxes at the top of these wooden sculptures. The Kickssetti one in Wrangell, Alaska records a migration story.
The Fore of New Guinea and Brazil’s Wari tribe included this act in their funerals; in the former it facilitated the spread of kuru disease.
Ancient Greeks placed a coin in the mouth of the dead so that the deceased could pay this figure to carry them across the river Styx to the afterlife. He is a brother of Hypnos.
totem pole
endocannibalism (accept feasts of the dead and other close descriptions like eating brains)
Charon (accept Charon's obol)
This god was also known as Adrestia or Invidia. For 10 points each--
Give this Greek god whose name comes from a word meaning "to give what is due". This daughter of Nyx is often depicted with a lash.
In one story Nemesis became a goose attempting to evade Zeus. In that tale, Nemesis is the mother of this woman whose abduction by Paris sparked the Trojan War.
Nemesis punished this beautiful hunter for rejecting the love of Echo. Nemesis lured him to a pool of water where he was unable to leave the image he saw.
Nemesis
Helen of Troy
Narcissus
For 10 points each—give these answers related to the ancient play <em>Medea</em>:
Medea was entered in a 431 BC competition by this writer, whose works lost to both Euphorion [yoo-FORE-ree-on] and Sophocles [SAW-foh-kleez].
In the drama, Medea is upset because this figure she helped to obtain the Golden Fleece has chosen to marry a different woman. This man led the Argonauts.
After Medea kills their children to punish Jason, she appears with the bodies in the chariot of what Greek sun god?
Euripides
Jason
Helios
For 10 points each—give these figures in Native American myth:
Ford named a line of cars after this flying creature said to cause a great sound when it flapped its wings.
This trickster canine is common to many tribes. The Shuswap people also call this figure Sk'elep and the Maidu say he told the world's first lie when he said he did not laugh while failing to make men out of clay.
Related to the Mayan figure Kukulkan, this feathered serpent in Aztec belief controlled the boundary between earth and sky.
thunderbird
Coyote
Quetzalcoatl [QWETZ-al-coh-AT-al]
Turnus is killed in combat at the end of this work. For 10 points each—
Name this epic poem by Virgil in which a Trojan travels to Italy. This poem’s main figure will become the ancestor of the Romans.
As they leave Troy, Juno attempts to stop the Trojan fleet by bribing this god of the winds, with a promise of the nymph Deiopea as a wife.
The fleet takes refuge on Africa’s coast, and Aeneas visits this city where Dido is queen. This city fought Rome in the Punic Wars.
The Aeneid (do not accept “Aeneas”)
Aeolus
Carthage
For 10 points each—give these answers related to creation myths:
In the Greek tradition, this formless or void state preceded the universe. This word still describes a state of disorder or confusion.
Some Hindu sources attribute creation to this god. The Trimurti includes this god, Vishnu the preserver, and Shiva the destroyer.
One Egyptian tale attributes creation to the Ogdoad, a group of this many deities. In Chinese myth there are this many Immortals.
Chaos
Brahma (do not accept "Brahman" or "Brahmin")
8
For 10 points—give these names common to astronomy and mythology:
Markab and Scheat are among the stars in this constellation said to resemble a mythological winged horse.
Rigel and Betelgeuse are in this constellation with shoulders, feet, and a belt. In one myth this figure loved a princess of Chios named Merope [mer-OH-pee].
John Goodricke studied the delta star of this constellation and described its varying luminosity. In myth this husband of Cassiopeia was an Ethiopian king.
Pegasus
Orion
Cepheus [the stars are known as Cepheid variables]
This figure was born after Zeus visited Danaë as a golden rain. For 10 points each—
Name this figure who stole the single eye shared among three hags to learn the location of their sister.
That sister Perseus wanted to slay was this Gorgon. She had snakes instead of hair, and those who gazed upon her turned to stone.
Perseus is the legendary founder of this civilization of the northeast Peloponnese peninsula. Linear B was a script used for the language of these people whose kings include Orestes and Atreus.
Perseus
Medusa
Mycenaeans
This civilization's kings include Enmerkar, who built the city of Uruk. For 10 points each--
Name this ancient civilization whose king Lugal-Zage-Si was captured by Sargon of Akkad.
Sumer was among the civilizations that lived in this region between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.
The Sumerian king list states this figure ruled between king Dumuzid and his own son Ur-Nungal. In an ancient story, this figure loses his friend Enkidu and learns the secret of immortality.
Sumer (accept Sumeria or Sumerian)
Mesopotamia
Gilgamesh (or Bilgamesh)
For 10 points each—name these Roman deities:
The gates of this god's temple were opened during war. Either Juno or this god of beginnings and doorways is the source of the name of our first calendar month.
Hephaestus [huh-FESS-tuss] is the Greek counterpart of this god of volcanoes and metalworking. Bonfires were lit during his August festival.
Caravaggio's painting Amor Vincit Omnia depicts this god. Jacques-Louis David also depicted this male, who is leaving a bed where Psyche reclines.
Janus
Vulcan
Cupid [the painting's title means "Love Conquers All"]
Identify the following about Yoruban mythology, for 10 points each.
The Yoruba people of this continent believe in a pantheon of gods with stories as rich as the Greco-Roman tradition. In Christian legend, the Queen of Sheba is from this continent.
The chief god of Olorun founded the city of Ile-Ife after sending Obtala to earth with a snail shell in order to perform this action. By some accounts, Obtala was accompanied by a pigeon and a hen that helped him with this process.
Another West African tradition reveres this trickster god who often takes the form of a spider. He became the god of storytelling after capturing a python, leopard, and swarm of hornets for the sky-god Nyame.
Africa
Creating Land [accept equivalents]
Anansi
The idea of mythical beings holding up the sky is found around the world in many different cultures. For 10 points each, identify some of these heavy lifters.
This Greek Titan was the father of Calypso and was condemned to hold up the sky for eternity.
This figure from Chinese mythology was birthed from a cosmic egg that perfectly balanced Yin and Yang. He holds up the sky after splitting Yin and Yang with an axe.
This Hawaiian mythological being held up the sky in order for the people of Earth to be able to stand upright. This figure is also accredited with making a bargain with the sun by lassoing it with his sister’s hair.
Atlas
Pangu
Maui
The flood myth is a motif found in many cultures throughout the world. For 10 points each:
Identify this country in which a flood supposedly lasted two generations. The flood was ended with the help of a channel-digging dragon, a mud-hauling turtle, and Hebo, the god of the Yellow River.
After Zeus became enraged with Lycaon’s attempt to offer the gods his own son for dinner, he ended the Bronze Age with a cataclysmic flood named after this son of Prometheus, who alongside his wife Pyrrha were the only survivors.
The story of Deucalion shares many parallels with the Sumerian hero Utnapishtim, a tale related in the Sumerian Epic of this man.
China
Deucalion
Gilgamesh
Answer some questions about a time when Gaia tried to destroy Olympus. For 10 points each:
This snake-like monster was the spawn of Gaia and Tartarus, intended to overthrow Zeus. Upon his first arrival at Olympus, the Olympians turned to animals and fled, but he was eventually defeated by Zeus with the aid of thunderbolts.
In many variants of Zeus’s clash with Typhon, he ultimately traps the monster under this mountain, explaining its volcanic nature.
This half snake “Mother of Monsters” is the mate of Typhon and mother of Cerberus, the Lernaean Hydra, the Sphinx, Scylla, and the Nemean Lion according to various sources. In modern times, her name has been given to an order of anteaters.
Typhon
Mount Etna
Echidna
Celtic myth was best preserved in Ireland. For 10 points each:
Name this figure, a hunter who burnt his finger while cooking the Salmon of Knowledge and whose time as a giant led to the creation of everything from the Giant’s Causeway to the Isle of Man.
This hero of the Ulster cycle was victorious at the Cattle Raid of Cooley, and he wielded the Gáe Bulg, a spear made from the bones of the Coinchenn, a sea monster.
This Celtic Goddess of War was commonly described as a trio of Badb, Macha, and Nemain. She commonly appears during battle to portend death as a crow.
Fionn mac Cumhaill [accept Finn MacCool or Deimne]
Cúchulainn [accept Cú Chulainn]
Mórrígan [accept Mór-Ríoghain or Morrígu]
The story of the Hall of Utgard-Loki is one of the strangest adventures of the Aesir. For 10 points each:
Name this god who attempts to murder Utgard-Loki with his hammer several times throughout the adventure. Thankfully, this angry god of thunder fails to hurt anyone.
Thor alarms Utgard-Loki by successfully lifting Jormungandr above his head while it is amusingly disguised as this furry animal.
The gods meet Utgard-Loki in this land of frost giants and rock giants that is separated from Asgard by the river Iving.
Thor
Cat
Jotunheim
There’s nothing like questing for the Holy Grail to bring people together. For 10 points each, name some Knights of the Round Table.
This son of Uther and first among equals presided over the Round Table. He was married to Guinevere and was the father of Mordred, his eventual killer.
This strongest Knight of the Round Table was raised by the Lady of the Lake, and he fathered the man who would eventually find the Grail, Sir Galahad. He also had an affair with Lady Guinevere.
This knight, Arthur’s nephew, is best known for his clash with the Green Knight, whom he decapitated, for which he receives a nick on his neck in return, a year later.
King Arthur Pendragon
Sir Lancelot du Lac
Sir Gawain [accept Gwalchmei or Gualguanus]
Before the onset of the Trojan War, Hesiod described the world as being in the Age of Heroes. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who famously slayed the Lernean Hydra as part of his twelve labors, only to have it not count because he was aided by his nephew Iolaus.
This hero wedded the suitor Hippomenes after being defeated in a foot race. She was the only female Argonaut.
Atalanta first became prominent after drawing first blood of a nearly invincible boar ravaging this area in Aetolia
Heracles [or Hercules]
Atalanta
Calydon [accept Calydonian boar]
The Aztec myth system posits that humans live in the fifth world after the first four ended in epic failures. For 10 points each:
This “feathered serpent” god continually fought with his brother Tezcatlipoca during the creation of the first four worlds.
There was no good material to make humans after the fourth world was destroyed. Thus, in order to create new humans, Quetzalcoatl had to retrieve these materials from the underworld in order to construct skeletons.
While journeying to the underworld, Quetzalcoatl traveled with this dog-headed god of lightning and death who is also his twin brother.
Quetzalcoatl
Bones
Xolotl
Spending too long looking at oneself can be dangerous. For 10 points each:
Identify this beautiful youth from Greek myth who fell in love with his own reflection and died while admiring it.
This nymph loved Narcissus, and she was cursed by Hera to only be able to repeat what others had said to her.
Narcissus’s death was the result of him decaying and transforming into one of these objects. Hyacinthus also was transformed into one of these.
Narcissus
Echo
Flowers [prompt on “plant”]
For 10 points each, name these foods that play a role in Hindu mythology and religion.
The god Vishnu adopts the form of a gigantic turtle named Kurma to churn an ocean of this white liquid.
The Vedas call upon Agni, the god of fire, to punish those who mistreat cows. As a result, many practicing Hindus abstain from eating this bovine meat product.
Krishna, an incarnation of Vishnu, is known for stealing and eating this solid, fatty dairy product from his mother Yashoda during his childhood.
Milk
Beef
Ghee [accept Butter]
Despite being a baby, Cupid is a rampaging troublemaker. For 10 points each:
This Roman god of the sun thought he could get away with mocking Cupid’s little bow. In return, Cupid let loose his arrows of gold and lead, making this god fall in love with the nymph Daphne.
Baby Cupid learned a lesson after he was hurt by these small animals. After running to his mother Venus, crying of the pain, she laughed him off by noting that he too is small and packs a painful punch.
Cupid also fell victim to his own love-dart when Venus had him cause mischief unto this woman, whose followers so admired her beauty that they neglected to make offerings to Venus. Cupid had Zephyr carry her to his bed where she became pregnant, and Cupid married this woman.
Apollo
Bees
Psyche
For 10 points, name these gods of the underworld.
This Greek god of the underworld used pomegranate seeds to help him kidnap Persephone and make her his bride.
This Norse god of the underworld is the daughter of Loki and Angrboda. The four-eyed hound Garm guards the entrance into her realm.
This Egyptian god of the underworld was the father of Horus, and he was chopped into many pieces by Set.
Hades [do NOT accept or prompt on “Pluto”]
Hel
Osiris
Answer the following about mythological bridges. For 10 points each.
It’s not Hinduism, but adherents of this myth system believe souls cross the Chinvat Bridge, which is guarded by two four-eyed dogs and widens or narrows based on a soul’s worthiness.
Perhaps the most famous mythological bridge is this rainbow bridge from Norse mythology. Heimdall guards this bridge from giants.
Robin Hood encounters this seven-foot tall man on a narrow bridge, and the two fight with staffs. Robin loses, but this figure joins the Merry Men and becomes Robin’s trusted friend.
Zoroastrianism [or Zarathustrism; or Mazdaism; or Magianism; or Parsiism]
Bifrost Bridge [or Asbrú]
Little John [or John Little] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Ishana is one of this deity’s five faces. For 10 points each:
Name this deity, who is often depicted with a serpent around his neck and a crescent moon on his forehead. This member of the Hindu trimurti often carries a weapon called the Trishula.
This wife of Shiva is sometimes represented as a yoni alongside a lingam. Her incarnations include Kali and Durga.
The child of Parvati and Shiva and brother of Ganesha is this Hindu god of war. His mount is a peacock, and he uses a spear known as the Vel.
Shiva [or Siva; or Shankara]
Parvati
Kartikeya [or Arumugam; or Skanda; or Subrahmanya; or Murugan] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This deity was born from the left eye of Izanagi. For 10 points each:
Name this solar deity, who temporarily shrouded the world in darkness when she hid in the cave Ama-no-Iwato.
The first emperor of this country, Jimmu, was allegedly a descendant of Amaterasu. This country’s myth system includes stories of Amaterasu and other kami.
Amaterasu gave Jimmu’s great-grandfather the Kusanagi blade, a weapon this kami of storms originally found after slaying the eight-headed Yamato-no-Orochi.
Amaterasu-omikami [or Ōhirume-no-muchi-no-kami]
Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon]
Susanoo [or Susanowo; or Susanoo No Mikoto] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This god was known as the “Guardian of the Scales,” and he was the father of the serpent goddess Kebechet. For 10 points each:
Name this jackal-headed Egyptian god of embalming.
The Egyptian Book of the Dead describes Anubis weighing a dead person’s heart against an ostrich feather, which represents this goddess of truth.
If a heart is found unworthy, it is devoured by the demoness Ammit, who has the head of this beast. This animal is also associated with the god Sobek.
Anubis [or Anpu]
Ma’at
Nile crocodile [do NOT accept “alligator”] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
<em>NOTE TO MODERATOR: Do not reveal the prompt on the second part of the bonus, as it will give away the answer to the third part. Thanks!</em> The giantess Rindr gave birth to Vali, who was born to avenge the death of this god. For 10 points each:
Name this god, who was burnt on the ship Hringhorni after his brother Hodr accidentally killed him with mistletoe.
Baldr was given the opportunity to return to leave Hel if all beings wept for him, but he will remain dead until Ragnarok because this giantess refused to weep for him.
Hodr was given the mistletoe by this god. Thokk may have been this Norse trickster god in disguise, according to some sources.
Baldr [or Baldur; or Balder]
Thokk [prompt on Loki]
Loki &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The ancient Greeks and Romans seemed to enjoy tales about male heroes dressing as women. Answer the following about cross-dressing in classical myth for 10 points each:
This hero’s mother Thetis sent him to Skyros disguised as a woman so he could avoid the Trojan War. He was discovered by Odysseus and eventually died from an arrow to the heel.
After killing Iphitus [“IFF-ih-tiss”] by throwing him over a wall, this hero was sentenced to dress as a maid and serve Queen Omphale [“Om-fall-ee”] for a year, while she got to wear his garb and carry his club.
In a Euripedes [“Eur-ip-ih-deez”] play, King Pentheus disguises himself as a Maenad, a female follower of this god, in order to spy on this god’s cult. It doesn’t turn out well—he ends up being torn to pieces.
Achilles [or Achilleus]
Hercules [or Heracles]
Dionysus [or Bacchus] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This king sought out Utnapishtim <em>[“Oot-nah-pish-tim”]</em>, a survivor of the Flood, in order to gain the secret to immortality. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical Sumerian King of Uruk, who refused Ishtar's love. This king was two-thirds God and one-third man.
This wild man wrestled Gilgamesh and became Gilgamesh's friend. This man was made from clay and helped Gilgamesh slay the Bull of Heaven.
Gilgamesh and Enkidu fought and killed this giant, who was the guardian of the Cedar Forest. The decapitation of this giant led to the rage of Enlil.
Gilgamesh
Enkidu
Humbaba &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This figure almost married Baduasemanpensa <em>[“Ba-dwa-see-man-pen-sa”]</em> by discovering her secret name, but lost her to Lizard when he could only spell out the name on a drum. For 10 points each:
Name this figure, a West African trickster god who is often depicted as a spider.
Description acceptable: Anansi captured Onini the python, and Osebo the leopard, and the Mboro wasps in order to buy these items from the sky-god Nyame.
In another story, Anansi becomes stuck on a Tar Baby, which is why he is often compared to this American trickster. This character appears in a collection of Uncle Remus stories.
Anansi [or Kwaku Anansi; or Compe; or Kompa Nanzi; or Aunt Nancy; or Sis’ Nancy]
all the world’s stories [or any answer that indicates that Anansi is collecting stories]
Br’er Rabbit [or Bruh Rabbit; or Brother Rabbit; or Compair Lapin] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Louhi promised her daughter’s hand to Lemminkäinen <em>[“Lemm-in-kay-nen”]</em>, only if the hero could bring back the lifeless body of this animal. For 10 points each:
Name this large black bird who swims the dark river that surrounds the island of the dead in Finnish mythology.
This Spartan queen and mother of Helen of Troy, Clytemnestra, and Castor and Pollux was impregnated by Zeus in the form of a swan.
This Hindu goddess of knowledge and the arts forms the Tridevi with Parvati and Lakshmi. This goddess emerged from Brahma's mouth riding a swan.
Swan of Tuonela
Leda
Saraswati &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This figure has false teeth made of jewels, but they are knocked out and replaced with kernels of corn. For 10 points each:
Name this figure. His sons are Zipacna, who loves to eat crabs, and Cabrakan, called “the Earthquake.” Before his downfall, he claimed to be the sun and moon.
Seven Macaw was defeated by these mythological brothers, who bested the Lords of Xibalba after a series of ball games.
Seven Macaw and the Hero Twins appear in the Popul Vuh, a book chronicling the mythology of this Mesoamerican people.
Seven Macaw [or Vucub Caquix]
Hero Twins [or Hunahpu and Xbalanque in either order]
Mayans [or K’iche; or Quiché] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
 His name possibly comes from the Sabine word for “spear.” For 10 points each:
Name this Roman god, who was identified with Romulus in the late republic.  He was worshipped together with the war goddess Bellona.
Quirinus was a member of the Archaic Triad, along with Jupiter and this Roman god of war. At times, this god and Quirinus were considered to be versions of the same god.
This woman gave birth to Romulus and Remus while serving as a Vestal Virgin, but claimed Mars was their father.
Quirinus
Mars
Rhea Silvia [prompt on Rhea] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This god created the first lyre from the remains of a tortoise after stealing Apollo’s cattle shortly after his birth. For 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus and Maia, the messenger of the gods.
Hermes’s theft of Apollo’s cattle was witnessed by this man. After he broke an oath of secrecy, Hermes turned this man into a rock.
Hermes carries a staff entwined by two of these creatures named the caduceus. His son Asclepius uses a rod entwined by one of them.
Hermes
Battus
Snakes [or Serpents] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
A character in this text encourages another to rise above nature's three modes and perform one's duty, without attachment to its consequences. For 10 points each:
Name this subsection of the Mahabharata, in which Krishna advises the warrior Arjuna on the battlefield.
Krishna is also worshipped as the eighth avatar of this “preserver” God of the Hindu Trimurti.
Krishna argues in the Gita that Arjuna must fight in order to fulfill his duty as a member of this caste. Vishnu's avatar Parashurama eradicated all males in this social class twenty-one times.
Bhagavad Gita
Vishnu
Kshatriyas &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. AR&gt;
Bonus: The musician Arion was saved by these animals after he jumped off a ship. For 10 points each:
Name these animals, which several pirates were transformed into after they had captured Dionysius.
Despite the warnings of Tiresias, a king of this city named Pentheus refused to recognize Dionysius, leading to his dismemberment by the Maenads and his own mother Agave.
According to Homer, Lycurgus was afflicted with this condition after he opposed Dionysius. Tiresias was afflicted with this condition after seeing Athena bathing, and Homer himself may have had it.
dolphins
Thebes
blindness &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about various nested things in mythology, for 10 points each:
According to the Popol Vuh, the Hero Twins were invited to this Mayan underworld via a message relayed by a louse hidden in a toad that was hidden in a snake that was itself hidden in a falcon.
In Slavic myth, the soul of Koschei the Deathless was hidden in a needle that was located in one of these objects buried in a chest. In Greek myth, Castor and Polydeuces were hatched from these objects laid by Leda.
The magic book of this Egyptian god was said to be hidden within several boxes made of different materials like iron, juniper, and gold. The curved beak of this ibis-headed god was taken to represent the Moon.
Xibalba
egg [Koschei’s soul was in a needle in an egg in a hare in a duck in a chest under a tree]
Thoth [or Djeheuty] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about the fates of Loki’s children, for 10 points each:
Loki’s daughter Hel was sent to rule over Helheim, which was sometimes said to be located in this frigid world. This world’s union with Muspellheim resulted in the creation of the giant Ymir.
This monstrous wolf was bound with the chain Gleipnir, biting off one of Tyr’s hands in the process. During Ragnarok, he will break free and devour Odin.
The serpent Jormungandr was thrown into the ocean and grew so large that it completely encompassed this world, in which men resided. The rainbow bridge Bifrost connected this world to the home of the Aesir.
Niflheim
Fenrir [or Fenris wolf]
Midgard &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about the second labor of Heracles, for 10 points each:
The second labor involved killing this monstrous seven-headed serpent, who lived in a swamp at Lerna.
At the behest of Hera, one of these aquatic animals assisted the Hydra in its fight and managed to cut off one of Heracles’ toes. That animal is now one of the signs of the Zodiac.
Eurystheus refused to count the second labor because Heracles received help from Iolaus, the son of this brother of Heracles. When Hera sent snakes to kill the infant Heracles, this man’s cries woke up his mother Alcmene.
Lernaean Hydra
crab
Iphicles &lt;BZ&gt;
Prior to Gaia and Uranus, the Earth, according to the Greeks, was a blob of elements called Chaos. For ten points each:
This first son of the union of Gaia and Uranus was a titan that personified the sea. The Greeks believed that this Titan was an infinite river circling Gaia.
This deity personified the sun during both the Titans’ and gods’ reign, and had to witness the death of his son due to a grave mistake.
Identify that son of Helios who nearly burned up the Earth when he was unable to control his father’s horses. To save the Earth, Zeus killed this figure with a thunderbolt.
Oceanus
Helios
Phaeton &lt;MD&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about soured fraternal relationships in mythology, for 10 points each:
This man helped found Rome with his brother Remus, but killed Remus over a dispute regarding the city walls.
This Aztec god helped create the world with his brother Quetzalcoatl, sacrificing a foot in the process, but later exiled Quetzalcoatl on a raft of snakes. He used an obsidian mirror to replace the foot he lost to the monster Cipactli.
Like many other Norse gods, the blind god Hodr took part in the sport of throwing weapons at this invulnerable brother of his, but accidentally killed him after Loki crafted a mistletoe spear.
Romulus
Tezcatlipoca [or Smoking Mirror]
Baldr &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: His father Gordius tied a knot that was legendarily cut by Alexander the Great. For 10 points each:
Name this Phrygian king, who quickly regretted the gift of a golden touch that Dionysius gave him for hospitably entertaining the satyr Silenus.
Dionysius, taking pity on Midas, told him to perform this action to get rid of the golden touch.
After Midas judged the music of Pan to be superior to the music of Apollo, Apollo cursed Midas to have the ears of this animal. The sound of this animal prevented the god Priapus from raping Hestia.
Midas
wash in the Pactolus River [accept equivalents like bathing in the Pactolus River; prompt on “washing” or “bathing”]
donkey [or ass] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This object protected King Arthur by ensuring he never bled in a fight. For 10 points each:
Identify this accessory to an object owned by King Arthur, which was stolen by Morgan le Fay and thrown into a lake.
The theft of the scabbard was one of the reasons that Arthur was dealt a fatal wound by this illegitimate son of his at the Battle of Camlann. Earlier, this man had usurped the throne while Arthur was abroad.
Another contributing factor to King Arthur’s fall was Lancelot’s affair with this woman, King Arthur’s wife. Arthur’s discovery of the affair between this woman and Lancelot led to a civil war that weakened his kingdom.
scabbard [or sheath]
Mordred [or Modred]
Guinevere &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This man was punished by being placed in a pool of water he could not drink. For 10 points each:
Name this man who cooked and served his son Pelops to the gods.
Tantalus had earlier stolen these items from Olympus after being invited to dine with the gods. All or nothing, name both the food of the gods and the drink of the gods.
Tantalus told Pandareus to steal a golden one of these animals from Zeus’s temple, thus earning divine retribution. Laelaps was one of these animals that could always successfully hunt down its prey.
Tantalus
ambrosia and nectar [accept answers in either order]
dog [accept equivalents like hound] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: In Zulu mythology, humans do not have it because a lizard beat a chameleon in a race. For 10 points each:
Name this quality, which Gilgamesh was unable to attain because a snake stole a flower he had retrieved from the bottom of the ocean. Tithonus, a lover of Eos, was given this quality, but eventually shriveled into a cicada.
Gilgamesh receives information about the plant from Utnapishtim, who had earlier survived one of these events. The Babylonian Utnapishtim shares many similarities with the biblical Noah, who also survives one.
A woman bakes seven loaves of bread to prove that Gilgamesh is unable to conquer this thing, and therefore cannot conquer death. In Greek myth, Selene makes Endymion immortal by having him do this forever.
immortality [accept equivalents like living forever; do not accept or prompt on “eternal youth”]
great flood
sleep &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about Joseph Campbell’s idea of the monomyth, for 10 points each:
One of the steps in the monomyth is the Refusal of the Call, which is exemplified by this Greek hero’s feigned madness prior to Trojan War. Palamedes throws this man’s baby son in front of him to show he is not truly insane.
The elements of Supernatural Aid and a Meeting with the Goddess are exemplified by Bellerophon’s dream, in which Athena presents him with a golden bridle to tame this winged horse.
This man’s defeat of bandits like Periphetes, Sciron, and Procrustes on his way to see his father Aegeus is an example of the Road of Trials that a hero faces in the beginning of the quest.
Odysseus
Pegasus
Theseus &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Volsung was proclaimed king after he pulled a sword from one named Barnstokkr. For 10 points each:
Name these things exemplified by the giant Yggdrasil in Norse mythology.
Siggeir’s jealousy of Volsung led him to imprison and murder Volsung’s sons, of whom only this man escaped. This father of Sigurd shattered his sword as he attacked a disguised Odin in battle.
The fragments of Sigmund’s sword were reforged by one of these beings named Regin. Sigurd used the reforged sword to kill the dragon Fafnir, who was originally one of these beings before he succumbed to his greed.
tree [accept oak or ash tree]
Sigmund
dwarf &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Chiron gave him an ashen spear at his wedding, to which Eris was not invited. For 10 points each:
Name this father of Achilles, whose wedding to Thetis resulted in Athena, Hera, and Aphrodite fighting over a golden apple thrown by Eris.
Thetis was married to the mortal Peleus because this Greek god was afraid that Thetis would give birth to a son greater than his father. The Cyclopes made the thunderbolts that this god wields.
In the beginning of the Iliad, Thetis notes that she had once rescued Zeus by summoning one of these brothers of the Cyclopes to his aid. These giant monsters were named for their numerous appendages.
Peleus
Zeus [do not accept “Jupiter”]
hundred-handed ones [or hekatonkheires; accept equivalents indicating they possessed 100 hands] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: The blind Demodocus served as a bard for these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people, whose king Alkinous hospitably received Odysseus and sent him on a ship to Ithaca. Nausicaa, a princess of these people, was the first to see Odysseus on their island.
The bard Phemius was the only person associated with this group of people to be spared by Odysseus. This group of men competed for the hand of Penelope, believing Odysseus to be dead.
This king of Sparta entertains Telemachus with a bard after the latter asks this man for news about Odysseus. However, this man is unable to tell Telemachus much, having been stranded in Egypt with his wife Helen.
Phaeacians [or Phaiakians; or Scherians]
suitors of Penelope [or proci; or mnesteres]
Menelaus &lt;BZ&gt;
This hero’s helmsman drowns as recompense for an otherwise safe voyage. For 10 points each:
Name this hero who founds what becomes the city of Rome after defeating Turnus in an epic battle.
Palinurus dies soon after this event in Book V of the Aeneid, which occurs exactly one year after Anchises’ death. Juno and Iris conspire to torch Aeneas’ fleet during this event.
Aeneas is mostly hated by Juno and favored by this Roman goddess in the Aeneid. This goddess, his mother, is the Roman counterpart of Aphrodite.
Aeneas
Anchises’ funeral games [or athletic competitions; or similar answers]
Venus
Like any good quizbowl player, Odin would do pretty much anything for knowledge. For 10 points each:
To learn the runes, Odin stabbed himself with a spear and hanged himself from this object for nine days. Odin also donated an eye to drink from Mimir’s well, which was located underneath this World-Tree.
He also learned how to speak to Hugin and Munin, two of these pet animals, who provided him tidings of the world.
Odin disguised himself as a snake, then sweet-talked Gunnlod, in order to acquire some of this substance, which legendarily turned anyone who consumed it into a bard. This substance was made from Kvasir’s [cuh-VASS-ears] blood.
Yggdrasil [EEG-druh-sill]
ravens [prompt on birds]
Mead of Poetry [or the Poetic Mead]
This princess is playing with a ball with her maidens, naked, when she comes across an unbelievably handsome naked Odysseus. For 10 points each:
Name this inhabitant of Phaeacia [fie-ASIA] who gives instructions to Odysseus to approach the palace of her father, King Alcinous [al-kin-OWE-us].
In some stories, Nausicaa marries this son of Odysseus, who visits Nestor and Menelaus early on in the Odyssey.
Odysseus washes up on the island of Phaecia after weathering a storm sent by this god. This Greek god of the sea is the main adversary in the Odyssey.
Nausicaa [NAWS-ick-uh]
Telemachus
Poseidon [do not accept or prompt on “Neptune”]
The ancient Egyptian creation myths varied, depending on the cult center. For 10 points each:
Ptah was venerated in Memphis for his ability to grant life with the help of this symbol, which the god used along with the was [WAHS] and the djed [JED]. This ubiquitous Egyptian symbol looked like a cross, but with a curved top.
The Heliopolis cult worshipped this creator god, who was later syncretized with Khepri [KEP-ree] and Ra. In the polite tellings of the myth, this god gave birth to Shu and Tefnut by spitting them out.
The Hermopolis cult believed that Ra was hatched from one of these objects. Many world mythologies believe the world was created from a “cosmic” one.
ankh
Atum [or Atum-Ra; or Atum-Re; do not accept or prompt on answers involving “Amun”]
eggs
Artemis created this creature in response to a hunter’s boast that he would kill every living thing. For 10 points each:
Name this creature which killed Orion.
In another myth, it was apparently Scorpio and Cancer who scared this lad so much that he crashed the sun chariot. This son of Helios had to be killed by Zeus after his antics resulted in the Ethiopians having black skin.
Cancer got his own spot in the sky while harassing Heracles during his Second Labor, which involved killing this multi-headed monster near Lerna.
Scorpio [or Scorpius; or a scorpion]
Phaethon
Lernaean Hydra
Answer the following about coyotes, for 10 points each:
Coyote and Raven served as this archetype in many Native American traditions. Clever, mischievous gods and heroes like Loki and Maui served this role.
In a classic tale from the Crow, Coyote accomplished this task by rolling a ball of mud. This task was accomplished by a Chinese goddess who flung a muddy vine through the air.
This American folk hero was raised by coyotes and believed himself a coyote until an embarrassingly late age. This cowboy dies after laughing to death seeing a Boston man in a ten-gallon hat.
tricksters
creation of humanity [or obvious equivalents like “making people”; prompt on creation]
Pecos Bill
One of these events happens immediately after Zeus and Hermes have dinner with Baucis and Philemon. For 10 points each:
Name these events. Three of them in Greek myth are named for Ogyges, Deucalion, and Dardanus respectively.
Descendants of Dardanus eventually founded this city. The namesake founder of this city was given a pair of magical horses by Zeus in exchange for his son Ganymede.
Deucalion was the son of this Titan, who enraged Zeus by showing man how to make fire. This Titan is the classic example of why you should never let an eagle anywhere near your liver.
floods
Troy [or Tros]
Prometheus
This era began when a god who was supposed to sacrifice himself chickened out, allowing Nana·huatl to jump in the fire instead. For 10 points each:
Name this current age according to the Aztecs, which will end in earthquakes when the moon devours the sun.
The last four ages have been brought down by feuds between these two rival Aztec gods. One of them lost his foot when the world was being created, and the other one exiled himself after sleeping with a virgin.
The first age came to an end after Quetzalcoatl sent these big predators down to earth. The Olmecs often sculpted these large cats as the Central American analog to the werewolf.
the Fifth Age [or the Fifth Sun]
Tezcatlipoca and Quetzalcoatl [be lenient on pronuciations; either order acceptable; prompt on partial answer]
jaguars
The cap of invisibility and these objects are given to Perseus to help him kill Medusa. For 10 points each:
Name these objects which traditionally were owned by Hermes.
Perseus may also have received a sword made of this material from Zeus to kill Medusa. This material was used by Cronus to castrate his father.
Perseus also brought along a wallet to store Medusa’s head, since people who looked at the Gorgon’s head died immediately in this way. In some myths, Perseus caused Atlas to undergo this transformation.
winged sandals [or talaria; prompt on partial answer; accept equivalents like flying shoes]
adamantine [or adamant; don’t accept or prompt on “adamantium”, which is what Wolverine is made out of]
turn to stone [or petrified; or word forms; or obvious equivalents]
Many of the stories in <em>The Hobbit</em> are borrowed from Norse myth. For 10 points each:
The dwarves’ encounter with the trolls exactly mirrors this Norse god’s encounter with the dwarf Alviss, who turns to stone after talking until morning. This god of thunder owns a magical hammer.
Tolkien likely borrowed the idea of a riddle contest from the Lay of Vaf·thrudnir, which ends with Odin cheating, and asking the giant what he once whispered into this god’s ear. This god presided over light and purity.
William Morris’ translation of the Poetic Edda’s “Myrk·vidr” gave Tolkien the idea for a Mirkwood forest. In Norse myth, the Myrk·vidr forest separates Asgard from this world of the fire giants.
Thor
Baldr [or Balder]
Muspelheim [or Muspelheimr]
One of these creatures named Briareus either defended Zeus or fought against Zeus, depending on the myth. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures which helped the Olympians against the Titans during the Titanomachy. They guard over the Titans in Tartarus.
The hecatonchires each have this many hands. Io was guarded by a giant with this many eyes, named Argus.
The hecatonchires joined forces with these other creatures against the Titans. These one-eyed creatures forged Zeus’ thunderbolts.
hecatonchires [heck-ah-TAWN-kyres; or close phonetic equivalents; prompt on centimanes]
100 [or one hundred]
Cyclopes [or cyclops]
Answer the following about fairies, for 10 points each:
In European folklore, fairies often replaced human children with these creatures, who grew up to cause all sorts of mischief.
In Marie de France’s lay “Lanval”, Lanval’s seduction by a fairy angers this woman, who is trying to get at Lanval too. This woman couldn’t keep her hands off Lancelot even though she was married to King Arthur.
This sorceress carries King Arthur off to Avalon after he is killed at Camlann. Arthur’s half-sister, her surname refers to the fact that she is actually part-fairy.
changelings
Queen Guinevere
Morgan le Fay [or Morgana; or close phonetic equivalents; do not accept or prompt on “Morgause”]
Name some things that Daedalus built, for 10 points each:
Perhaps most famously, Daedalus built this enormous maze to house the Minotaur on Crete.
An obscure quote attributes Daedalus to a dancing floor constructed for this woman, who gave Theseus the ball of string to navigate the Labyrinth. As a gesture of his sincerest thanks, Theseus abandons her on Naxos.
Daedalus constructed one of these objects for Pasiphae in order to help her satisfy her desires to mate with a white bull.
Labyrinth
Ariadne [do not accept or prompt on “Arachne”]
a wooden cow [or a mechanical cow; or similar answers involving artificial bovines; prompt on cows or similar livestock]
Name some things about swords in mythology, for 10 points each:
The Lady of the Lake bestows upon King Arthur this legendary sword, which is said to have blinded its enemies upon being wielded for the first time.
This kami used the Totsuka-no-Tsurugi to kill Yamata no Orochi. Within the serpent, this kami found another blade, the Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi.
This hero uses the sword Gram, or Nothung, to slay Fafnir, a dwarf-turned-dragon. After slaying Fafnir and drinking its blood, he acquired the ability to converse with birds.
Excalibur [or Caliburn]
Takehaya Susano’o-no-Mikoto
Sigurd [or Siegfried]
This deity once asserted his dominance over another by spreading his semen on the other’s favorite food, lettuce, for 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian deity who challenged Set to a boat race in order to win over Egypt once and for all. The wadjet eye is a symbol of this god.
Horus is typically depicted with the head of this bird. Horus took the form of this bird when flying through his dominion, the sky.
This other Egyptian god was the husband of Ma’at. The Greeks knew this deity as Hermes, although the Egyptian counterpart was often depicted with the head of a baboon or ibis.
Horus [accept Nekheny]
falcon
Thoth [accept Djehuty]
This 7th avatar of Vishnu was exiled from Ayodhya for 14 years, for 10 points each:
Name this man, accompanied on his exile by his wife Sita and his brother Lakshmana. After Ravana abducts Sita, he travels to Sri Lanka to rescue her.
The Ramayana was composed by the poet Valmiki, an adherent of this religion. The Ramayana is one of the two major epics in this religion.
In the Ramayana, Vali and Sugreev were half-men, half-[these animals] who aided Rama in his quest to save Sita by raising an army.
Rama
Hinduism
monkeys
Skirnir gives Gerd these objects, which Bragi’s wife guards. For 10 points each:
Name these objects which Idun supplies to the gods to keep them from aging.
This trickster god gives the golden apples of Idun to Thiazi and insults the aged Freya after she lends him her falcon skin.
The golden hair of this wife of Thor is at one point also stolen by Loki.
golden apples [prompt on “apples”]
Loki
Sif
His wife was turned into a deer before he met her, and Fear Doirich turns her back into a deer after this man leaves his country, for 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Fianna, the hero of the Fenian Cycle.
Finn MacCool burnt his thumb while trying to prepare this animal that granted its consumer a bunch of knowledge.
Finn MacCool is a folk hero from this island, where he is said to be sleeping in a cave even today. This island is to the west of Great Britain.
Finn MacCool [or Fionn mac Cumhaill]
salmon of wisdom
Ireland [or Éire]
The serpent Vasuki resides around this man’s neck, and the Ganges River flows out of his hair. For 10 points each:
Name this Hindu god who resides on Mt. Kailash with his wife Parvati. This trident-wielding deity is known as the destroyer in the Hindu trimurti.
One of Shiva’s children is this other god, whose mount is a mouse. Due to this god’s feud with the moon, adherents of Hinduism avoid looking at the moon on this deity’s birthday.
Ganesha is known for having the head of this animal, the tragic result of a case of short tempers and mistaken identities.
Shiva [accept Mahadeva]
Ganesha [accept Ganapati]
elephant
Answer some things about Homer’s <em>Odyssey</em> for 10 points each:
The Odyssey centers around Odysseus’s long journey home from this war fought over Helen. The losers of this war allowed a giant wooden horse filled with enemy soldiers into the city.
When Odysseus and his crew get shipwrecked on Thrinacia, his crew gets hungry and slaughters these animals belonging to the Sun god Helios.
Penelope’s suitors are led by these two men, one of whom hatches a plan to kill Telemachus but is shot in the throat by Odysseus. Name either leader of the suitors.
Trojan War
cattle [accept cows]
Antinous and Eurymachus [accept either or both, in either order]
This locale includes the Fields of Punishment, the Fields of Asphodel, Elysium, and Tartarus, for 10 points each:
Charon ferries souls to this locale, where Minos judges them. This location of the Greek afterlife is home to Cerberus.
This musician attempted to rescue his wife Eurydice from the Underworld after she died of a rattlesnake bite. He looked back just as he was leaving the Underworld and lost her forever.
Orpheus’ mother was Calliope, one of these nine figures, the offspring of Zeus and Mnemosyne. They collected Orpheus’ body upon his death.
the Greek Underworld [do not accept or prompt on “Hell”]
Orpheus
the Muses
This man stole the Mares of Diomedes and slew the Stymphalian Birds, for 10 points each:
Name this son of Zeus who killed his wife and children while driven mad by Hera. This hero repented by completing Twelve Labors.
This other son of Zeus took Hestia’s place among the Olympians. When this god was abducted by pirates, he transformed them into dolphins.
These two sons of Zeus, together called the Dioskouri, were born from an egg, along with their half-sisters Helen and Clytemnestra. Name both.
Heracles [accept Hercules, Alcaeus, or Alcides]
Dionysus [accept Bacchus]
Castor and Pollux
This being castrated his father Uranus with a scythe and reigned over a mythical Golden Age. For 10 points each:
Name this husband and brother of Rhea, who swallowed five of Rhea’s children. This deity’s sixth child, Zeus, overthrew him after freeing his fellow siblings with an emetic.
After the overthrow of Kronos, the ensuing rebellion of Zeus’s Olympians against Kronos and his siblings was given this name.
This Titan was one of the original 12 siblings of Kronos. Given the epithet “the Piercer,” his sons include Atlas, Prometheus, and Epimetheus.
Kronos [or Cronus]
Titanomachy
Iapetus
Name some things about Greek heroes, for 10 points each:
This man saved the princess Andromeda from Cetus by killing that sea monster while invisible. He slew Medusa by gazing only at her reflection.
This other Greek hero slew the Harpies to help out the blind prophet Phineas. With the aid of Medea, he was successful in the Argonauts’ quest to find the Golden Fleece.
This centaur taught both Perseus and Jason, as well as numerous other heroes.
Perseus
Jason
Chiron
These beings are said to have created islands using a jeweled spear. For 10 points each:
Name these nature spirits, one of whom looked back at the other in the Underworld and saw the other as a rotting corpse. One of these spirits washed three others out of his face.
Kami are prominent in Shintoism, an East Asian religion originating in this country. This nation’s largest city and capital is Tōkyō.
Amaterasu left her hiding place in a cave after spotting herself in one of these objects. The imperial regatta of Japan include a necklace, a sword, and one of these objects.
kami
Japan [accept Nippon- or Nihon-koku]
mirror
Name some of the trials of Odysseus, for 10 points each:
Odysseus encountered this daughter of Atlas on the island of Ogygia. This nymph keeps Odysseus on her island for seven years.
This son of Poseidon traps the crewmen in a cave and eats two at a time until Odysseus, under the guise of Nobody, intoxicates this Cyclops and then stabs his single eye.
Wanting to hear these creatures’ song, Odysseus had his crewmen plug their ears with beeswax and tie him to the mast of the ship.
Calypso
Polyphemus
the Sirens
The blood of one of these creatures killed Heracles, for 10 points each:
Name these half-men, half-horses, exemplified by the aforementioned Nessus.
At this man’s wedding, the centaurs attempted to carry away his bride, Hippodamia. That action resulted in the centaurs’ fight with this man’s subjects, the Lapiths, in the Centauromachy.
Pirithous was one of the many heroes that participated in the hunt of this beast. Atalanta ultimately dealt the first wound to this massive boar, sent by Artemis to punish a certain king.
centaurs
Pirithous
Calydonian Boar [or Aetolian Boar]
In one story, this man emerged from a cave holding a golden staff, and was instructed to build a Temple to the Sun where the staff sank into the Earth. For 10 points each:
Name this mythological man, succeeded by his son Sinchi Ruq’a and married to Mama Ocllo. He is said to have founded the city of Cuzco.
Cuzco served as the capital of these people, whose mythology includes Manco Cápac, the chief god Viracocha, and the sun god Inti.
In the Legend of Manco Cápac and Mama Ocllo, the god Inti brought up Manco Cápac from the depths of this lake. This lake straddles the border of Bolivia and Peru.
Manco Cápac [or Manqu Qhapaq]
Incans
Lake Titicaca [or Titiqaqa]
This Mesopotamian epic was written during the Third Dynasty of Ur, 10 points each:
Name this first great work of literature, centering on the title figure’s friendship with the wild man Enkidu, and his quest to obtain immortality.
Gilgamesh was a king of this ancient Sumerian city, situated east of the Euphrates river, in present-day Iraq.
Gilgamesh and Enkidu journey to this location to slay the ogre guardian Humbaba. After they kill Humbaba, Enkidu cuts down a tree to fashion into a gate for the temple of Enlil.
The Epic of Gilgamesh
Uruk [or Unug]
Cedar Forest
The temple Esagila was dedicated to this deity, who created the heavens and earth from his mother’s corpse, for 10 points each:
Name this deity, whose story is told in the Enuma Elish. This god retook the Tablets of Destiny from Kingu after capturing Tiamat with a net and impaling her stomach with an arrow.
This Assyrian deity reigned as chief god over Mesopotamia before Hammurabi established a powerful empire, after which Marduk usurped this god’s role.
Marduk ruled as the chief deity of the Anunnaki in the mythology of this Mesopotamian city.
Marduk [pronounced Marutuk]
Ashur
Babylon
The poisonous blood of this creature later killed Geryon, Nessus and Chiron.
Name this multi-headed creature killed by Heracles for his second Labor. Its breath was toxic, and when each head was cut off, two more grew back in its place until Heracles had his nephew Iolaus burn the stumps.
Two Labors were added to Heracles' original ten because Heracles cleaned the stables of this king with the help of the rivers Alpheus and Peneus, rather than by himself.
During his last Labor, Heracles brought back this other hero, who had been trapped in a chair in the underworld for accompanying Pirithous to woo Persephone.
Lernaean Hydra [or LernaÃ­a Hydra]
Augeas
Theseus
During battle, this deity was said to drive a chariot in front of the pharaoh while firing flaming arrows.
Name this lion-headed Egyptian goddess who ravaged the earth, nearly destroying all of humanity. After drinking beer dyed with red ochre and pomegranate, she transformed into the cow-headed Hathor.
Sekhmet's counterpart in Lower Egypt was this cat-headed goddess of warfare and protection, whose name translates to "She of the Ointment Jar."
This solar deity was the father of Sekhmet and Bastet. Identified with the god Atum, this falcon-headed sun god revealed his secret name to Isis after being poisoned by a serpent.
Sekhmet [or Sachmis; or Sakhmet; or Sekhet; or Sakhet]
Bastet [or Ubasti; or Baset]
Ra [or Re]
In Izumo Province, this figure turned Kushinada into a comb to hide in his hair.
Name this god of sea and storms who created five men from a necklace in a contest with his sister Amaterasu. This ruler of Yomi obtained the sword Kusanagi from the tail of the dragon Yamata no Orochi.
Susanoo was born from the nose of this creator god during a purification ceremony, which occurred after this god returned from Yomi. He plunged a spear into the ocean with his wife, forming the islands of ancient Japan.
Susanoo, Amaterasu, and Izanagi are kami from this indigenous Japanese religion, whose practitioners' shrines are fronted by torii gates.
Susano'o [or Takehaya Susanoo-no-Mikoto]
Izanagi-no-mikoto [or Izanagi-no-Okami]
Shintō [or kami-no-michi]
This figure's birth occurred after his parents Vasudeva and Devaki were imprisoned.
Name this charioteer of Arjuna and blue-skinned avatar of Vishnu. He gave advice to Arjuna before the Battle of Kurukshetra in the Bhagavad Gita, and the Mahabharata culminates in his death.
Arjuna was a member of this family, led by Yudhisthira during the Battle of Kurukshetra. This family fought against the Kauravas over the throne of Hastinapura.
This woman is the wife of the five Pandavas. In one scene of the Mahabharata, Dushasana tries to disrobe her, but Krishna causes her sari to become continually longer so that he could not disrobe her completely.
Krishna
Pandavas [or Pandawas]
Draupadi
The Hippocrene spring on Mount Helicon was created by this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this winged-figure whose hooves created springs wherever they struck the ground.
Pegasus was famously ridden by this hero, who slew the Chimera before being stung by a gadfly and falling from the sky for his hubris.
This figure, the son of Medusa and the brother of Pegasus, was the father of Geryon by Callirhoe. Oddly, he was a man, despite his brother being a horse.
Pegasus
Bellerophon
Chrysaor
Bonus: In one story, he scares the giant Cuhullin when he eats a griddle cake. For ten points each:
Name this leader of the Fianna who received the knowledge contained in the Salmon of Wisdom after he sucked his thumb.
The story of Fionn mac Cumhaill is collected in the Fenian Cycle of this island country to the west of Britain. Other stories in its mythology can be found in its Ulster Cycle.
Fionn mac Cumhaill stuck a spear in this body part in order to be able to kill the fairy Aillen. Diarmuid, who possessed a love spot on this body part, eloped with Fionn’s bride Grainne.
Fionn mac Cumhaill [pronounced “Finn McCool”]
Ireland [or Eire]
forehead [prompt on “head”] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: She was originally the wife of a king of Pisa named Tantalus. For ten points each:
Name this daughter of Tyndareus and Leda who conducted an affair with Aegisthus after she learned that her daughter Iphigenia was sacrificed.
After Orestes avenged his father Agamemnon by killing Clytemnestra, this trio of goddesses pursued him for committing matricide. They were renamed the Eumenides, or Kindly Ones, after they agreed to stop chasing Orestes.
In some stories, Orestes reunites with his sister Iphigenia because this goddess whisked her away at the last second as she was about to be sacrificed. This virgin huntress and protector of the wilderness is a daughter of Leto.
Clytemnestra
Erinyes [accept Furies]
Artemis &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: The Hekatonkheires participated in this conflict by throwing huge rocks. For ten points each:
Name this conflict between the Olympians and the children of Gaia and Uranus. Prometheus, however, decided to join the winning side in this conflict.
After the Titanomachy, this youngest son of Cronus and Rhea became ruler of Olympus. When he and his brothers Hades and Poseidon drew lots to determine their domains, this god got the sky.
During his infancy, Zeus hid from his father Cronus and was nursed by this goat. According to some stories, one of her horns later became the Cornucopia.
Titanomachy or Titan War
Zeus [do not accept “Jupiter”]
Amalthea &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: One named Brokkr created Mjolnir and Draupnir. For ten points each:
Name these short beings in Norse mythology who were skilled smiths and metalworkers. A group of them called the Sons of Ivaldi created Frey’s ship Skidbladnir.
This brother of Otr and Hreidmar turned into a dragon in order to guard the treasure of a dwarf named Andvari. His killer was able to understand the language of birds after tasting his blood.
Andvari possessed a cursed ring made of this material, which was also used to create Sif’s hair. One of Heimdall’s alternate names, Gullintani, comes from the fact that his teeth are the color of this metal.
dwarves [or dvergr]
Fafnir
gold &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This god gave Midas the golden touch. For ten points each:
Name this Greek god of wine, whose female followers were known as maenads.
This mother of Dionysus was killed when she persuaded Zeus to show himself in his full glory. Dionysus later retrieved her from Hades, after which she became a goddess on Olympus.
In his youth, Dionysus turned some pirates into these animals after they kidnapped him and attempted to sell him into slavery. These animals also saved the life of the legendary musician Arion after he jumped from his ship.
Dionysus [accept Bacchus]
Semele
dolphins &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Poseidon and Apollo built the walls of this city on the orders of Laomedon. For ten points each:
Identify this city that was ruled by Laomedon’s son Priam and home to heroes like Aeneas and Hector. The Iliad chronicles the war against this city, which was sacked after Greek soldiers entered it in a wooden horse.
An eagle carried this beautiful Trojan prince to Olympus, where he served as cupbearer to the gods. Hermes compensated for his abduction by giving a pair of divine horses to his father Tros.
Ganymede replaced this goddess of youth as cupbearer on Olympus, who married Heracles after his deification.
Troy [or Ilium; accept Trojan war]
Ganymedes
Hebe &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This god exiled his brother on a raft of snakes sometime after they defeated Cipactli. For ten points each:
Identify this brother of Quetzalcoatl, whose name means “smoking mirror” and who is frequently depicted wearing a piece of black obsidian.
Tezcatlipoca and Quetzalcoatl are gods in the mythology of these Mesoamerican people, who allegedly mistook Hernan Cortes for an incarnation of their “feathered serpent” god.
Tezcatlipoca lost one of these body parts when he defeated Cipactli to create the world. Oedipus had a deformity in these body parts, and Hermes wears winged talaria on these body parts.
Tezcatlipoca
Aztecs
feet [or foot; prompt on “leg”] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Polyneices used one of this woman’s possessions to bribe Amphiaraus’s wife Eriphyle. For ten points each:
Identify this daughter of Ares and Aphrodite who was presented with a divinely forged necklace at her wedding to Cadmus.
Harmonia’s husband, Cadmus, founded this city, which was ruled by Laius and Oedipus. Oedipus’s son Polyneices led a group of seven who fought against this city.
This sister of Polyneices buried his body and was sentenced to death for violating Creon’s decree that forbade Polyneices’ burial.
Harmonia
Thebes
Antigone &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: He served Queen Omphale for a year after accidentally killing Iphitus. For ten points each:
Name this immensely strong son of Zeus and Alcmene, a Greek hero who performed twelve labors.
After killing the Hydra, Heracles used its poison to augment these weapons, with which he killed the Stymphalian Birds. Heracles bequeathed these weapons to Philoctetes, who killed Paris with them.
Heracles completed the twelve labors to atone for killing this woman in a fit of madness. This first wife of Heracles was a daughter of the Theban king Creon.
Heracles [or Hercules]
bow and arrows [prompt on “bow”]
Megara &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: As patron of the military, this god sometimes wore a uraeus [yoo-ray-us]. For ten points each:
Identify this crocodile-headed son of Set and Neith who had a major center of worship at Crocodilopolis.
In his role as a creator god, Sobek was sometime syncretized with this Egyptian sun god, who fathered Shu and Tefnut and was worshipped at Heliopolis.
According to the Coffin Texts, Sobek retrieved the hands of this falcon-headed god from the Nile after Isis cut them off. This god engaged in a war against his uncle Set that featured hippopotamus hunting and boat racing.
Sobek [accept Sebek, Sochet, Suchos, or Sobki]
Ra [accept Atum-Ra, or Amun-Ra, or Ra-Horakhty, accept Re in place of “Ra” at all times, prompt on Atum, Amun, or Horakhty]
Horus [accept Neferhor or Harsiesis or Harpokrates] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This god established the Pythian Games after killing a gigantic snake. For ten points each:
Identify this son of Leto and Zeus, who was the Greek god of light, music, and medicine.
This son of Apollo worked as a renowned healer until Zeus struck him with a thunderbolt for resurrecting Theseus’s son Hippolytus. In revenge, Apollo slew the Cyclopes who made the thunderbolts that killed this man.
Asclepius attained the power of resurrection after this goddess gave him a vial of Gorgon blood. This daughter of Metis cast the deciding vote in a trial that acquitted Orestes of matricide.
Phoebus Apollo
Asclepius [or Aesculapius]
Pallas Athena [or Athena Parthenos] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: His first child was born deformed because his wife spoke first at their wedding. For ten points each:
Name this god who tried to retrieve his wife Izanami from Yomi after she died giving birth to the fire god Kagutsuchi.
This kami was born after Izanagi washed his left eye. The center of this goddess’s worship is at the Grand Ise Shrine, which is torn down and rebuilt every twenty years, and emperors of Japan formerly claimed descent from her.
Izanagi and Amaterasu are two of the many kami of this Japanese belief system, which claims the islands of Japan were created from the drops of water that fell after Izanami and Izanagi stirred the seas with a spear.
Izanagi-no-Mikoto [or Izanagi-no-Okami]
Amaterasu-ōmikami [accept Ōhirume-no-muchi-no-kami]
Shintoism [or kami-no-michi] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This object came with a scabbard that prevented its owner from bleeding to death. For ten points each:
Name this legendary sword wielded by King Arthur, which was given to him by the Lady of the Lake.
This man stole Excalibur’s scabbard and threw it into a lake before fatally wounding Arthur at the Battle of Camlann. This son of Arthur and his half-sister Morgause usurped his father’s throne during his absence.
Before dying, Arthur asks this knight to return Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake. As he throws Excalibur into the water, a mysterious hand appears and grabs the sword as it falls.
Excalibur [accept Caledfwlch or Caliburn]
Mordred [accept Medraut or Medrod]
Sir Bedivere [or Bedwyr] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Hermes’ caduceus features two of these animals coiled around a staff. For ten points each:
Name these reptiles which formed the hair of Medusa.
This blind prophet was turned into a woman after he hit a pair of mating snakes with a stick. This native of Thebes lived for seven generations and advised kings like Cadmus, Laius, and Oedipus.
This other prophet rescued some orphaned snakes and was able to understand animals after they licked his ears clean. This man also shared the fact that Midas had donkey ears after he overheard some birds talking about it.
snakes [or serpents]
Tiresias
Melampus &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: He once dressed up as Freya to retrieve a weapon that Thrym stole. For ten points each:
Identify this Norse god of thunder who wields the hammer Mjolnir.
Thor’s greatest enemy is this creature, which was also called the Midgard Serpent. Thor once hooked this creature when he went fishing with the giant Hymir.
Thor and Jormungandr kill each other during this event, which is preceded by Fimbulwinter and is survived by Thor’s sons Modi and Magni.
Thor
Jormungandr
Ragnarok &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Her son Parthenopaeus was one of the Seven Against Thebes. For ten points each:
Name this daughter of Iasus who was loved by Meleager. She and Hippomenes were eventually turned into lions for disrespecting Cybele’s temple.
Atalanta was the first to wound the Calydonian one of these animals. Heracles captured the Erymanthian one as part of his labors, and Ares gored Adonis to death in the guise of one of these animals.
Hippomenes won Atalanta’s hand in marriage after he defeated her in a footrace with the help of three of these objects, which were given to him by Aphrodite.
Atalanta
boars or pigs
golden apples [prompt on “apples”] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Her father Thiazi was killed after he kidnapped Idunn. For ten points each:
Name this wife of Njord, who was allowed to choose a husband among the gods by looking at their feet.
Skadi chose the god with the most beautiful feet in the hopes that it would be this god of light and beauty, but ended up with Njord instead. This god died after being struck by a mistletoe spear thrown by his brother Hodr.
This Norse trickster god persuaded Hodr to throw the mistletoe spear, after which he was punished by being bound to rocks while snake venom dripped on his face.
Skadi [accept Scade, Skathi, or Skaði]
Baldr [accept Balder or Baldur]
Loki [accept Loptr or Hveðrungr] &lt;BZ&gt;
[missing]
Name this hero who was undone by the poison of the Lernaean [LER-nay-un] hydra, which he killed as one of twelve labors ordered by his cousin Eurystheus [yoo-RIS-thee-us].
Zeus fathered Heracles by disguising himself as this king and sleeping with Alcmene [alk-MEE-nee] for three days and nights.
While travelling with this group, Heracles was left on Chios [KIE-ose] while searching for Hylas, who had been kidnapped by a nymph. Orpheus protected this group from the Sirens [SIE-rens].
Heracles (accept Hercules)
Amphitryon
Jason and the Argonauts
[missing]
Name this youth, who was advised by Athena to take a different route home after visiting Nestor and Menelaus [meh-neh-LAY-us].
The ambush that awaited Telemachus [teh-leh-MAH-kus] was planned by suitors pursuing this queen, whose husband was absent for twenty years.
Penelope was queen of this city-state. Penelope patiently waited for her husband Odysseus to return to his rightful place as king of this locale.
Telemachus
Penelope
Ithaca
[missing]
Name this Athenian king and husband of Hippolyta [hih-poe-LIE-tah]. After this person forgot to change the flags following his conquering of the Labyrinth, his father Aegeas [ay-JEE-us] jumped into the sea.
After arriving in Athens to claim his rightful place, this wife of Aegeas and ex-wife of Jason convinced the king to try to poison Theseus. She also killed her sons Alcimenes [al-ki-MEE-nees] and Tisander.
Theseus came of age on his journey to Athens. During that journey, he killed this "stretcher" who would stretch the limbs of shorter travelers and maim taller ones to fit different beds.
Theseus
Medea
Procrustes (accept Damastus or Polypemon)
[missing]
Name this chief deity of Norse myth, who gave up an eye to drink from the well of Mimir [MIH-mir].
To gain the power of the runes, Odin used a spear to hang himself from this ash tree for nine days.
Odin used trickery to obtain the mead of poetry, which was made from the blood of Kvasir. Kvasir himself was created from this substance gathered from the Aesir and Vanir.
Odin (accept Woden, Wotan, or Wodan)
Yggdrasil (prompt on "World Ash," "World Tree" or "Terrible Horse")
spit (accept saliva or equivalents)
The Konabos, some horses owned by Ares, possessed this ability. For 10 points each:
Name this ability. Bellerophon slew the Chimera because the beast attempted to use this ability while a lead spear was stuck down its throat.
Examples of these fire-breathing creatures in Greek myth include Ladon and Python. They're commonly depicted in Chinese myth.
Hephaestus crafted some bronze bulls that could breathe fire for this king of Colchis. Jason was forced to yoke them while attempting to plough a field with dragon teeth for this king.
breathing fire [or equivalents]
dragons [or wyrms; or wyverns; prompt on "snakes" or "reptiles"]
King Aeetes
He surrounds the world and eats his own tail. For 10 points each:
Name this enormous monster who will kill and be killed by Thor in an epic battle.
That last battle will occur during this event, in which Fenrir will break free and eat the moon and the sun. It will also feature the destruction of the world by the armies of the fire-giant Surtr.
Snow from all quarters will blanket the earth during this event that preludes the beginning of RagnarÃ¶k. Three of these events will last consecutively with no summer in between.
JÃ¶rmungandr [accept Midgard Serpent or World Serpent]
RagnarÃ¶k
Fimbulvetr [accept Fimbulwinter; prompt on "eternal winter"]
Name some lovers of Aphrodite, for 10 points each:
This god was trapped under a net with Aphrodite by her jealous husband Hephaestus. With her, he sired Phobos and Deimos, who accompanied him to war.
This son of Myrrha and Cinyras was raised by Aphrodite, who fell in love with him. He died when a boar gored him, and Aphrodite patronized a yearly festival in his honor.
This father of Aeneas was crippled for boasting of his affair, which included two weeks of lovemaking with Aphrodite in the guise of a Phrygian woman.
Ares
Adonis
Anchises
The Mnevis bull symbolized this god in Heliopolis. For 10 points each:
Name this Egyptian Sun deity who slays Apophis in the form of a cat. He is often depicted with a falcon head.
Ra sent this terrible lioness to destroy humankind when they conspired against him. Before she could slaughter everyone, he stopped her by tricking her into drinking too much beer.
In some myths, Sekhmet turned into this gentle goddess often represented with cow horns. She danced naked in front of Ra to cure his depression.
Ra
Sekhmet [accept Sachmis or Sekhet]
Hathor
Members of this group included Hercules, the twins Castor and Pollux, and the only female, Atalanta. For 10 points each:
Name this group of adventurers that Jason took on his quest for the Golden Fleece.
This former king of Thrace helped the Argonauts by revealing the secret to pass through the Sympleglades. His abuse of his foresight led to his blindness.
Zetes and Calais defeated these iron-winged creatures that would steal and trash Phineas's food when he attempted to eat.
Argonauts
Phineas [accept Phineus]
Harpies
For 10 points each, answer the following about mythological groups of three.
These flying hags persecute oath-breakers and murderers. They pursued Orestes until Athena personally stopped them.
These Greek spirits of charm and beauty often appear nude in many sculptures. One of them, Thalia, shares her name with the Muse of comedy.
These Norse giantesses sit at the Well of Uror weaving the Rope of Fate. They care for Yggdrasill, preventing its roots from rotting.
Furies [accept Erinyes, Eumenides, or Dirae]
Graces [accept Charites]
Norns
For 10 points each, name some figures based on their tales of transformation described in Ovid's Metamorphoses.
This son of Daedalus is never really transformed into a bird, proving unfortunate when the heat of the sun melts his wax wings and causes him to crash into the sea.
Ovid describes how this woman is transformed into a weeping rock after Apollo and Artemis kill her seven sons and seven daughters in revenge for her claiming to be better than Leto.
The tale of these two lovers who communicated using a wall describes how the mulberry bush became red after being stained with their blood.
Icarus
Niobe
Pyramus and Thisbe (prompt on partial answers)
The Well of Mimir is located under one of this entity's roots. For 10 points each:
Name this "World Tree" in Norse mythology. Its roots span Asgard and Hel.
This god hung himself upside-down from Yggdrasil for nine days and nine nights to be allowed to understand the language of runes. He also sacrificed an eye to drink from the Well of Mimir.
At the base of Yggdrasil lays this creature, who constantly gnaws at the World Tree's roots. The squirrel Ratatoskr relays messages between this serpent and an unnamed eagle.
Yggdrasil
Odin (or Wodan)
Nidhogg
Its entrance is guarded by the three-headed dog Cerberus. For 10 points each:
The Styx and Acheron rivers are located in what place in Greek mythology, where Persephone reigns as queen for nine months of the year?
This ferryman escorted souls across the Styx into the underworld. A coin was usually buried with the dead to pay this son of Nyx and Erebus.
Individuals who have led neither good nor evil lives are confined to the Asphodel Fields, where many of them drink from this river which erases the memories of dead souls and eventually sends them into oblivion.
Greek underworld (or Hades)
 Charon
 Lethe
Noah survived one of these events using an ark. For 10 points each:
Name these events, one of which Deucalion and Pyrrha survived. Those two later recreated mankind using rocks.
In Hindusim, this god's son Manu was the progenitor of mankind and had also survived a flood after being forewarned by the fish Shaphari. This god was the creator member of the Trimurti.
In the mythology of this West African people, the creator god Olorun breathed life into mankind. In an inversion of the flood myth in this mythology system, the world was initially only water before Obtala brought land to it.
 flood or Great Deluge
 Brahma
 Yoruba people or religion
For 10 points each, name these members of the Argonauts:
This leader of the Argonauts began the expedition after being made to find the Golden Fleece by the usurping king Pelias.
These hero twins were children of Leda. They were called the Dioscuri in Greek and the Gemini in Latin.
These two siblings were the sons of Boreas and Oreithyia. They could fly and helped rescue Phineas from the torment of the Harpies. Name either.
Jason
Castor and Pollux (prompt on partial; accept Polydeuces in place of Pollux)
Zetes or Calais (prompt on "Boreads")
In this work's Bhagavad Gita section, the prince Arjuna asks his charioteer Krishna for advice. For 10 points each:
Name this Indian epic about the Kurukshetra War.
The Mahabharata was written in this ancient Indo-European language. Panini was an early grammarian in this language.
Arjuna is a member of the Pandavas, who wage war with this group of brothers. Duryodhana is the eldest among this group.
Mahabharata
Sanskrit
Kauravas
This hero ensures that he would die standing upright by tying his intestines to a rock. For 10 points each:
Name this mythical warrior who was taught by Scathach and fights in the Cattle Raid of Cooley against Queen Medb.
Cú Chulainn was the son of this deity known as "the long-handed". After the Cattle Raid of Cooley this god healed Cú Culainn over a period of three days.
Cú Chulainn and Lug both possessed this kind of long shafted weapon, respectively called the Gae Bulg and the Gae Assal. One of these owned by Longinus was used to pierce the side of Christ.
Cú Chulainn (prompt on "Sétanta")
Lug
spear (accept lance)
Noah survived one of these events using an ark. For 10 points each:
Name these events, one of which Deucalion and Pyrrha survived. Those two later recreated mankind using rocks.
In Hindusim, this god's son Manu was the progenitor of mankind and had also survived a flood after being forewarned by the fish Shaphari. This god was the creator member of the Trimurti.
In the mythology of this West African people, the creator god Olorun breathed life into mankind. In an inversion of the flood myth in this mythology system, the world was initially only water before Obtala brought land to it.
 flood or Great Deluge
 Brahma
 Yoruba people or religion
Though the god of war, it became a running joke in Greek mythology that Ares was actually a wimp. For 10 points each;
After learning that Ares was having an affair with his wife Aphrodite, this god of the smithy constructed a golden net and caught them in the act to the humor of the rest of the gods.
With Athena as his charioteer, this Greek soldier inflicted a wound upon Ares who was fighting alongside the Trojans. This man had ventured with Odysseus into Troy to retrieve the Palladium.
When these two sons of Aloeus waged war on the gods, they captured Ares and trapped him in a bronze jar. Ares was freed by Hermes and these two giants eventually lost the war.
Hephaestus (do not accept or prompt on "Vulcan")
Diomedes
Otus and Ephialtes (prompt on "Aloadae")
These creatures were born out of the union between Ixion and a thundercloud he believed to be Hera. For 10 points each:
Nessus was a famous one of what half-man, half-horse combinations?
The immortal son of Cronus, this centaur served as the teacher of many heroes including Theseus.
A student of Chiron, this physician was eventually killed by Zeus after he accepted gold in exchange for bringing the dead back to life, although his father Apollo had him brought to Olympus as the god of medicine.
 centaurs
 Chiron
 Asclepius (do not accept or prompt on "Aesculapius")
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the death of Ymir, which led to the creation of the world:
Ymir was the primordial first example of this type of creature in Norse mythology. The jotunn were the "frost" type of these large creatures.
Ymir was killed by Odin, Vili, and Ve, who were the first generation of this pantheon of gods. They wage a war with, and then combine with, the Vanir.
The flesh and blood of Ymir were fashioned into these creatures. Brokkr and the sons of Ivaldi were examples of this type of creature.
giant (prompt on "jotnar")
Aesir
dwarf
This creature helped fight against the Solymi and Amazons. For 10 points each:
Name this sibling of Chrysaor which was captured while it drank from the Pirene.
This man tamed the winged-horse Pegasus using a golden bridle on the advice of Athena.
Bellerophon was best known for using Pegasus to slay this fire-breathing monster. Part lion, part goat, and part snake, it gives its name to creatures assembled from many others.
Pegasus
Bellerophon
Chimera
For 10 points each, answer the following about the churning of the ocean in Hindu mythology:
This Preserver member of the Trimurti took on the form of a turtle to act as a pivot for the mountain used in the churning. He is known for his many avatars.
This god obtained a blue throat when he swallowed the poison produced during the churning. He is the father of Ganesh.
This nectar of immortality was the end result of the churning of the ocean of milk.
Vishnu
Shiva
Amrita
The name of this location is roughly translated as "place of fear." For 10 points each:
Name this underworld overseen by the Death Gods which included trials like the Bat House and the Razor House.
This pair of mythological siblings descended into Xibalba to play a ball game and defeat the Death Gods. They consist of Hunahpu [WAH-nuh-pwuh] and Xbalanque [shi-BAY-lan-kay].
The Hero Twins and Xibalba originate from the mythology of this Mesoamerican civilization, which had a calendar that supposedly ended in 2012.
Xibalba [shee-BAHL-bah]
the Hero Twins (prompt on partial answers)
Maya (accept word forms)
For 10 points each, name these gods and goddesses of love:
This Roman God of desire and affection is the son of Venus. He is often contrasted with the Greek Eros and usually is depicted as an archer with arrows of gold which cause people to fall in love.
Associated with love, music, dance, and motherhood this cow-headed Egyptian goddess is said to hold up the sky.
This Hindu god of love and affection was burned by Shiva's third eye after a fight and rides a parrot.
Cupid
Hathor
Kamadeva
One man with this name slaughtered a flock of sheep in a fit of madness for not winning Achilles's armor. For 10 points each:
Give this name of two men who fought in the Trojan War, one known as "the Greater" and the other as "the Lesser."
Ajax the Greater is also sometimes named after this father of his who helped his friend Heracles in an earlier siege of Troy.
Ajax the Lesser raped this prophetess in the Temple of Athena. She was cursed with having no one believe her despite always being right.
Ajax
Telamon (accept Telamonian Ajax)
Cassandra
Bonus: Apollo and Poseidon built the massive walls that surrounded this city. For ten points each:
Name this city in Asia Minor that was conquered and destroyed by the Greeks in a war chronicled by a Homeric epic. The army of this city was led by Hector.
This king ruled Troy at the time of the Trojan War and was the father of Hector. He was killed by Neoptolemus during the sack of Troy, after which his wife Hecuba was sold as a slave to Odysseus.
This king of Troy and father of Priam ordered Apollo and Poseidon to build Troy’s walls. This man was killed after refusing to give his immortal horses to Heracles.
Troy (or Ilium, or Ilion, or Ilios)
Priam (accept Podarces)
Laomedon &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: While creating animals with his brother, he forgot to leave good traits for humans. For ten points each:
Name this son of Iapetus whose name means “afterthought”. He was warned by his wiser brother to never accept any gift from Zeus.
Unfortunately, Epimetheus didn’t listen and accepted this woman as a bride. As a wedding present, she received a box that later released various evils and illnesses to humanity when she opened it.
Pandora’s daughter Pyrrha married this man, who was told by his father Prometheus to build a shelter to hide in during a great flood. After they survived it, he and Pyrrha repopulated the world by throwing stones behind them.
Epimetheus
Pandora
Deucalion &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about the worship of a certain god, for ten points each:
This Egyptian god of the sun was the grandfather of Osiris and Isis.
Amenhotep IV changed his name to honor this deity, the worship of whom replaced that of Ra and other traditional Egyptian gods. This god represented the solar disk.
The center of Ra’s worship was located in this city, which contained a House of the Sun. An obelisk from a temple to Ra is currently the only monument recovered from this city.
Ra (or Atum-Ra, or Amun-Ra, or Ra-Horakhty; accept Re in place of “Ra”; prompt on Atum, Amun, or Horakhty)
Aten (or Aton)
Heliopolis (accept City of Helios) &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: One of them named Brynhild fell in love with Sigurd. For ten points each:
Name this Norse shieldmaidens who carried the valiant dead away to Valhalla.
Actually, valkyries only carry half the valiant dead to Valhalla. The other half are selected by this Norse goddess of beauty and sent to a hall named Folkvangr.
Those who do go to Valhalla get to feast on a boar named Saehrimnir, after which the cook Andhrimnir does this to it. After Thor did this to his goats, he found out one of them was lame because Thialfi broke open a bone.
valkyries
Freyja (do not accept or prompt on “Frey”)
resurrection (accept answers like bring back from the dead; prompt on answers like “reconstructing the body” or “regrowth”) &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: On his way to Athens, he eliminated bandits like Procrustes, Sciron, and Periphetes. For ten points each:
Name this son of Aegeus, a Greek hero who slew the Minotaur.
Theseus killed the Minotaur with the help of this daughter of Minos, who gave him some thread so that he could find a way out of the Labyrinth. However, Theseus abandoned her on Naxos while on the way back to Athens.
Theseus later married this sister of Ariadne, who fell in love with Theseus’s son Hippolytus. Tragically, she committed suicide after she framed Hippolytus for her supposed rape and caused his exile and death.
Theseus
Ariadne
Phaedra &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Name these trickster animals, for ten points each:
One of these animals, the African trickster god Anansi, managed to get ahold of all the stories in the world. In Greek mythology, Arachne was turned into one of these after losing a weaving contest.
This Native American trickster god is the brother of Wolf and created humanity by kicking a ball of dirt.
This avian Native American trickster god is said to be a brother of Coyote. In the myths of several Western tribes, he is responsible for giving light to the world, such as by stealing the Sun or opening a box of light.
spiders
Coyote
Raven &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: The Egyptians believed that this god’s laughter caused earthquakes. For ten points each:
Name this god of the earth and father of Osiris, Set, Isis, and Nepthys. This son of Shu and Tefnut married his sky-goddess sister.
Due to a restriction put in place by Ra, Geb’s wife Nut could not give birth on all 360 days of the year, so this divine scribe and god of wisdom gambled with Khonsu for 5 extra days in the year during which Nut could give birth.
Khonsu was the god of this nighttime celestial object, whose crescent phase was represented by Thoth’s curved ibis beak.
Geb (accept Gebeb, Keb, or Kebeb)
Thoth (accept Djehuty, Tahuti, or Zehuti)
Moon &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Zeus spoke through the rustlings of the oak trees at one of these in Dodona. For ten points each:
Name these places or people through which the gods communicated when consulted. The most famous example of these was the one at Delphi dedicated to Apollo.
Apollo established the Oracle of Delphi after killing this serpent, which had been pursuing his mother Leto. The predecessor to the Olympic Games were held to commemorate the killing of this creature.
This man seized the Pythoness’ tripod after she refused to answer his inquiry at first, since he had been stained by his murder of Iphitus. The Oracle eventually told him to serve Omphale as a slave to atone for the murder.
oracles (do not accept or prompt on “prophets")
Python [the Pythian games preceded the Olympic games]
Heracles (or Hercules) &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Many men could not partake in this event due to the curse of Macha. For ten points each:
Name this event in which the armies of Queen Medb attacked Ulster in an attempt to steal a valuable bull.
The Cattle Raid of Cooley is recorded in the Ulster Cycle of this country’s mythology. Famous figures in this country’s mythology include Deirdre of the Sorrows and Finn MacCool.
This youth ended up halting Queen Medb’s offensive and protecting Ulster. This wielder of the Gae Bulg was a son of Lugh and gained his most famous name after killing a guard dog.
Cattle Raid of Cooley (or Tain Bo Cuailnge; accept any answer indicating a theft of cattle from Cooley)
Ireland (or Eire)
Cu Chulainn (accept Setanta) &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: For ten points each, answer the following about the founding of an Italian city:
This man founded Rome with his brother Remus, but later killed him for criticizing the height of the city’s walls.
Romulus ordered a kidnapping of this tribe’s women to provide wives for the inhabitants of Rome. In retaliation, their king Titus Tatius attacked Rome, only to be stopped when the women threw themselves before the troops.
This daughter of Numitor and Vestal Virgin was the mother of Romulus and Remus. Amulius ordered her children’s execution, but she managed to put them in a basket on the Tiber River.
Romulus
Sabines (or Sabini)
Rhea Silvia &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Name the following wielders of mythological swords, for ten points each:
This owner of the sword Hrunting and hero of a namesake Anglo-Saxon epic discovered that the weapon failed to work against Grendel’s Mother, forcing him to discard it.
This kami of storms and the sea slew the dragon Orochi and pulled the sword Kusanagi from its tail. He was born with his siblings, the goddess of the Sun and the god of the Moon,  from Izanagi’s face.
This Greek hero, the half-brother of Teucer, received a sword from Hector in exchange for a purple sash after their battle. After a fit of divinely-induced madness, this man impaled himself in the chest with that sword.
Beowulf
Susano’o-no-mikito
Ajax the Greater (or Telamonian Ajax; or Ajax, son of Telamon; accept Aias in place of “Ajax”; prompt on just “Ajax”; do not accept or prompt on “Locrian Ajax” or Ajax the Lesser") &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This man killed Deioneus because he stole his horses. For ten points each:
Name this king of the Lapiths and father of Pirithous, who was later chained to a fiery wheel in Hades because he could not contain his lust for Hera. With the cloud nymph Nephele, he was the father of the Centaurs.
Nephele married King Athamas, but he later got rid of her in favor of Ino, a daughter of this man. This figure was the husband  of Harmonia and founder of Thebes.
To stop the drought after Nephele’s departure, Athamas ordered the deaths of Phrixus and Helle. However, a ram rescued them, and Phrixus skinned it to create this object, which Jason and the Argonauts sought in their voyage.
Ixion
Cadmus
the Golden Fleece &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: He owns the spear Gungnir and sacrificed an eye to drink from the Well of Mimir. For ten points each:
Name this owner of the ravens Hugin and Munin who was the chief Norse deity and father of the Aesir.
With his brothers Vili and Ve, Odin killed this primordial giant to build the world. He was formed in Ginnungagap by the union of fire and ice.
This cold and icy realm met with the fiery Muspelheim to create Ymir. According to some sources, the wicked dead are sent to this place instead of Hel.
Odin (accept Wotan or Woden)
Ymir (accept Augelmir or close pronunciations of that)
Niflheimr &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: The leaders of one side in this event were Alcyoneus and Porphyrion. For ten points each:
Name this rebellion against the Olympian gods, which was quelled with the help of Heracles. Some participants in it could not be killed unless they were taken out of their homeland of Pallene.
The Giants were sons of this personification of the Earth. With Ouranos, she was the mother of the Titans, Hekatonkheires, and Cyclopes.
This gigantic hundred-headed monster was also a son of Gaia.  His union with his wife Echidna was said to have brought forth all other monsters. After his defeat by Zeus, he was imprisoned under Mount Etna.
Gigantomachy (accept equivalents like Giant War)
Gaia (accept Ge)
Typhon (accept Typhoeus, Typhos, or Typhaon) &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: This figure gave his army to Duryodhana, but personally helped the other side in the Kurukshetra War. For ten points each:
Name this blue-skinned figure, a son of Devaki who served as the charioteer of Prince Arjuna. The dialogue between him and Arjuna makes up most of the Bhagavad Gita.
Krishna is an avatar of this “Preserver” of the Hindu Trimurti. His other avatars include Rama and the fish Matsya, while his final avatar Kalki is yet to come.
Prince Arjuna belonged to this family, which included his brothers Sahadeva, Yudhisthira, Nakula, and Bhima. They shared Draupadi as a wife and were helped by Krishna in the war against the hundred sons of Queen Gandhari.
Krishna
Vishnu
Pandavas (or Pandava family; prompt on “sons of Pandu") &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: Members of this kingdom’s royalty included Cassiopeia and Andromeda. For ten points each:
Name this nebulously defined African region where the Olympians would often go and feast. It shares its name with a country whose former ruler, Haile Selassie, is venerated by Rastafarians.
This man’s son was the Aethiopian prince Memnon. Priam bribed this lover of Eos with a golden grapevine, and he turned into a cicada after receiving immortality without eternal youth.
This hero saved the Aethiopian princess Andromeda from a sea monster and later married her. He had earlier went on a quest to bring back the head of Medusa and save his mother Danae from a marriage to Polydectes.
Aethiopia
Tithonus
Perseus &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: He once lost an eating contest to fire in Jotunheim. For ten points each:
Name this Norse trickster god who fathered Hel and Fenrir with Angrboda. He and Heimdall kill each other during Ragnarok, before which he will captain the ship Naglfar.
This wife of Loki uses a bowl to catch the venom that drips from a serpent placed above his head, while the god himself is bound to rocks with the entrails of his son Narfi.
Loki’s aforementioned ordeal was punishment for the death of this god of light and happiness. This god was killed by a spear made from mistletoe, the only plant that didn’t swear an oath to his mother Frigg.
Loki
Sigyn (do not accept “Signy")
Baldr &lt;BZ&gt;
[missing]
 Name this Norse shieldmaidens who carried the valiant dead away to Valhalla.
 Actually, valkyries only carry half the valiant dead to Valhalla. The other half are selected by this Norse goddess of beauty and sent to a hall named Folkvangr.
 Those who do go to Valhalla get to feast on a boar named Saehrimnir, after which the cook Andhrimnir does this to it. After Thor did this to his goats, he found out one of them was lame because Thialfi broke open a bone.
 valkyries
 Freyja (do not accept or prompt on "Frey")
 resurrection (accept answers like bring back from the dead; prompt on answers like "reconstructing the body" or "regrowth")
[missing]
 Identify this "good god" who is rivals with Angra Mainyu in a dualistic Persian religion.
 Ahuramazda and Angra Mainyu are the two central gods of this Persian religion, the chief text of which is the Avesta.
 A branch of Zoroastrianism held the belief that this father of Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu was the chief god. That branch uses this god's existence to explain the "twin brother" confusion in the Avestas.
 Ahuramazda (or Ohrmazd)
 Zoroastrianism (prompt on Mazdaism)
 Zurvanism
[missing]
 Name this owner of the ravens Hugin and Munin who was the chief Norse deity and father of the Aesir.
 With his brothers Vili and Ve, Odin killed this primordial giant to build the world. He was formed in Ginnungagap by the union of fire and ice.
 This cold and icy realm met with the fiery Muspelheim to create Ymir. According to some sources, the wicked dead are sent to this place instead of Hel.
 Odin (accept Wotan or Woden)
 Ymir (accept Augelmir or close pronunciations of that)
 Niflheimr
[missing]
 Name this rebellion against the Olympian gods, which was quelled with the help of Heracles. Some participants in it could not be killed unless they were taken out of their homeland of Pallene.
 The Giants were sons of this personification of the Earth. With Ouranos, she was the mother of the Titans, Hekatonkheires, and Cyclopes.
 This gigantic hundred-headed monster was also a son of Gaia.  His union with his wife Echidna was said to have brought forth all other monsters. After his defeat by Zeus, he was imprisoned under Mount Etna.
 Gigantomachy (accept equivalents like Giant War)
 Gaia (accept Ge)
 Typhon (accept Typhoeus, Typhos, or Typhaon)
[missing]
 Name this blue-skinned figure, a son of Devaki who served as the charioteer of Prince Arjuna. The dialogue between him and Arjuna makes up most of the Bhagavad Gita.
 Krishna is an avatar of this "Preserver" of the Hindu Trimurti. His other avatars include Rama and the fish Matsya, while his final avatar Kalki is yet to come.
 Prince Arjuna belonged to this family, which included his brothers Sahadeva, Yudhisthira, Nakula, and Bhima. They shared Draupadi as a wife and were helped by Krishna in the war against the hundred sons of Queen Gandhari.
 Krishna
 Vishnu
 Pandavas (or Pandava family; prompt on "sons of Pandu")
[missing]
 This Egyptian god of the sun was the grandfather of Osiris and Isis.
 Amenhotep IV changed his name to honor this deity, the worship of whom replaced that of Ra and other traditional Egyptian gods. This god represented the solar disk.
 The center of Ra's worship was located in this city, which contained a House of the Sun. An obelisk from a temple to Ra is currently the only monument recovered from this city.
 Ra (or Atum-Ra, or Amun-Ra, or Ra-Horakhty; accept Re in place of "Ra"; prompt on Atum, Amun, or Horakhty)
 Aten (or Aton)
 Heliopolis (accept City of Helios)
[missing]
 Name this son of Aegeus, a Greek hero who slew the Minotaur.
 Theseus killed the Minotaur with the help of this daughter of Minos, who gave him some thread so that he could find a way out of the Labyrinth. However, Theseus abandoned her on Naxos while on the way back to Athens.
 Theseus later married this sister of Ariadne, who fell in love with Theseus's son Hippolytus. Tragically, she committed suicide after she framed Hippolytus for her supposed rape and caused his exile and death.
 Theseus
 Ariadne
 Phaedra
[missing]
 One of these animals, the African trickster god Anansi, managed to get ahold of all the stories in the world. In Greek mythology, Arachne was turned into one of these after losing a weaving contest.
 This Native American trickster god is the brother of Wolf and created humanity by kicking a ball of dirt.
 This avian Native American trickster god is said to be a brother of Coyote. In the myths of several Western tribes, he is responsible for giving light to the world, such as by stealing the Sun or opening a box of light.
 spiders
 Coyote
 Raven
[missing]
 Name this nebulously defined African region where the Olympians would often go and feast. It shares its name with a country whose former ruler, Haile Selassie, is venerated by Rastafarians.
 This man's son was the Aethiopian prince Memnon. Priam bribed this lover of Eos with a golden grapevine, and he turned into a cicada after receiving immortality without eternal youth.
 This hero saved the Aethiopian princess Andromeda from a sea monster and later married her. He had earlier went on a quest to bring back the head of Medusa and save his mother Danae from a marriage to Polydectes.
 Aethiopia
 Tithonus
 Perseus
[missing]
 Name this god of the earth and father of Osiris, Set, Isis, and Nepthys. This son of Shu and Tefnut married his sky-goddess sister.
 Due to a restriction put in place by Ra, Geb's wife Nut could not give birth on all 360 days of the year, so this divine scribe and god of wisdom gambled with Khonsu for 5 extra days in the year during which Nut could give birth.
 Khonsu was the god of this nighttime celestial object, whose crescent phase was represented by Thoth's curved ibis beak.
 Geb (accept Gebeb, Keb, or Kebeb)
 Thoth (accept Djehuty, Tahuti, or Zehuti)
 Moon
[missing]
 Name this city in Asia Minor that was conquered and destroyed by the Greeks in a war chronicled by a Homeric epic. The army of this city was led by Hector.
 This king ruled Troy at the time of the Trojan War and was the father of Hector. He was killed by Neoptolemus during the sack of Troy, after which his wife Hecuba was sold as a slave to Odysseus.
 This king of Troy and father of Priam ordered Apollo and Poseidon to build Troy's walls. This man was killed after refusing to give his immortal horses to Heracles.
 Troy (or Ilium, or Ilion, or Ilios)
 Priam (accept Podarces)
 Laomedon
[missing]
 Name this hummingbird god of war who required human sacrifices every 52 years. His mother was impregnated by a ball of feathers, leading to his birth.
 Huitzilopochtli, whose Nahuatl name meant "hummingbird on the left", was the war god of these Mesoamerican people. Ometeotl was their creator god, and Tezcatlipoca served as their sorcerer.
 The Aztec god Tlaloc was responsible for this phenomenon, the coming of which required child sacrifices. Along with the sea, this was also controlled by the Japanese god Raijin.
 Huitzilopochtli [accept Uitzilopochtli, prompt on some combination of "Hummingbird" and "left"]
 Aztecs
 rain [accept storms, showers, precipitation or other specific types of rain, prompt on "weather", do not accept "thunder" or "lightning"]
[missing]
 Name these places or people through which the gods communicated when consulted. The most famous example of these was the one at Delphi dedicated to Apollo.
 Apollo established the Oracle of Delphi after killing this serpent, which had been pursuing his mother Leto. The predecessor to the Olympic Games were held to commemorate the killing of this creature.
 This man seized the Pythoness' tripod after she refused to answer his inquiry at first, since he had been stained by his murder of Iphitus. The Oracle eventually told him to serve Omphale as a slave to atone for the murder.
 oracles (do not accept or prompt on "prophets")
 Python [the Pythian games preceded the Olympic games]
 Heracles (or Hercules)
[missing]
 Name this event in which the armies of Queen Medb attacked Ulster in an attempt to steal a valuable bull.
 The Cattle Raid of Cooley is recorded in the Ulster Cycle of this country's mythology. Famous figures in this country's mythology include Deirdre of the Sorrows and Finn MacCool.
 This youth ended up halting Queen Medb's offensive and protecting Ulster. This wielder of the Gae Bulg was a son of Lugh and gained his most famous name after killing a guard dog.
 Cattle Raid of Cooley (or Tain Bo Cuailnge; accept any answer indicating a theft of cattle from Cooley)
 Ireland (or Eire)
 Cu Chulainn (accept Setanta)
[missing]
 This man founded Rome with his brother Remus, but later killed him for criticizing the height of the city's walls.
 Romulus ordered a kidnapping of this tribe's women to provide wives for the inhabitants of Rome. In retaliation, their king Titus Tatius attacked Rome, only to be stopped when the women threw themselves before the troops.
 This daughter of Numitor and Vestal Virgin was the mother of Romulus and Remus. Amulius ordered her children's execution, but she managed to put them in a basket on the Tiber River.
 Romulus
 Sabines (or Sabini)
 Rhea Silvia
[missing]
 This owner of the sword Hrunting and hero of a namesake Anglo-Saxon epic discovered that the weapon failed to work against Grendel's Mother, forcing him to discard it.
 This kami of storms and the sea slew the dragon Orochi and pulled the sword Kusanagi from its tail. He was born with his siblings, the goddess of the Sun and the god of the Moon,  from Izanagi's face.
 This Greek hero, the half-brother of Teucer, received a sword from Hector in exchange for a purple sash after their battle. After a fit of divinely-induced madness, this man impaled himself in the chest with that sword.
 Beowulf
 Susano'o-no-mikito
 Ajax the Greater (or Telamonian Ajax; or Ajax, son of Telamon; accept Aias in place of "Ajax"; prompt on just "Ajax"; do not accept or prompt on "Locrian Ajax" or Ajax the Lesser")
[missing]
 Name this king of the Lapiths and father of Pirithous, who was later chained to a fiery wheel in Hades because he could not contain his lust for Hera. With the cloud nymph Nephele, he was the father of the Centaurs.
 Nephele married King Athamas, but he later got rid of her in favor of Ino, a daughter of this man. This figure was the husband  of Harmonia and founder of Thebes.
 To stop the drought after Nephele's departure, Athamas ordered the deaths of Phrixus and Helle. However, a ram rescued them, and Phrixus skinned it to create this object, which Jason and the Argonauts sought in their voyage.
 Ixion
 Cadmus
 the Golden Fleece
This figure's mother Smyrna was turned into a tree from which he was born, and he was killed by a wild boar.  For 10 points each: 
Name this father of Beroe who spent part of the year with Persephone and part with his lover who hid him in a box as an infant due to his beauty.
That lover was this goddess of love and mother of Eros who produced the anemone by sprinkling his blood with nectar.
Aphrodite also fell in love with this son of Capys who stole horses from Laomedon.  Some accounts say that he was struck by a thunderbolt for revealing their love.
Adonis
Aphrodite
Anchises
Worship of this god originated at Nekhen, and his four sons were identified with the canopic jars.  For 10 points each: 
Name this falcon-headed Egyptian god of the sky who built a ship of wood disguised as stone for a race against Set.
This consort of Horus associated with the sistrum was the goddess of love, fertility, and mining, had a cult in Dandarah, and was depicted as a cow.
This creator god portrayed as a mummified human manifested himself as the bull Apis.  His worship along with that of Sekhmet and Nefertem spread from Memphis.
Horus
Hathor
Ptah
For 10 points each, identify these types of creatures from Greek mythology.
Including Pholus and Chiron, these half-man, half-horse creatures buried Caeneus with fir trees at the wedding of Pirithous.
Demeter gave Triptolemus a chariot pulled by two of these creature.  One of these beings guarded the golden apples of the Hesperides.
Consisting of Briareus, Cottus, and Gyes, this trio of giants with a hundred hands each aided the Olympian gods by bombarding the Titans during the Titanomachy.
Centaurs
Dragons
Hecatonchires
