Richard Titmuss argued against paying for this practice, arguing that monetary motives would crowd out altruistic ones and actually decrease its total supply. For 10 points each:
Name this activity. Payment for it fell out of favor in part due to fears that people motivated by money would be more likely to carry diseases like hepatitis B or HIV.
Another frequently cited example of markets corroding social norms is a 2000 paper by Gneezy and Rustichini that examined the introduction of fines in one of these places. People felt less bad about arriving late to this kind of place after it started charging 10 shekels.
This economist and Roland Bénabou theorized that incentive schemes backfire when a principal has more information about a task’s payoff than the agent. His 1988 textbook is still the standard for theoretical industrial organization.
blood donation [or word forms; do not accept “plasma donation”]
daycares [accept any answer indicating a childcare center, but do not accept or prompt on “preschools”]
Jean Tirole &lt;SB&gt;
A·valent examples of this part of speech have no arguments whatsoever. For 10 points each:
Name this part of speech which, in some languages, features distinctions of aspect, such as perfective and imperfective. Some languages have a basic form of this part of speech called the infinitive.
Verbs exhibit this feature based on the relationship between its arguments and the action in question. Deponent verbs are written with one form of this feature but mean the other.
Irregular verbs often have wildly varying stems in different tenses and moods due to this phenomenon, in which a word’s inflected forms originally derive from another word. This phenomenon is exhibited in English by the comparatives “good/better” and “bad/worse.”
verbs
grammatical voice
suppletion [accept word forms like suppletive] &lt;JM/MJ&gt;
In her presidential speech to the American Economic Association, this woman argued that economists should see themselves as neither scientists nor engineers, but rather as plumbers. For 10 points each:
Name this MIT economist who has conducted several randomized control trials in developing countries with Abhijit Banerjee, with whom she also wrote Poor Economics.
Duflo and Banerjee have studied the effects of one of these antipoverty programs in India. Muhammad Yunus won the Nobel Peace Prize for providing this kind of service, which is directed towards people who may be rationed out of traditional bank services.
Credit constraints can lead to this kind of inefficiency by causing dispersion in marginal products of capital. This kind of inefficiency occurs when inputs are distributed in a way that does not maximize social welfare.
Esther Duflo
microfinance [or microcredit or microlending or microloans; prompt on just finance, loans, etc.]
misallocation [or allocative inefficiency; prompt on productive inefficiency; do not accept “technical inefficiency”] &lt;SB&gt;
Answer the following about “Dual-Processual Theory” of Mesoamerican archaeology, for 10 points each.
The theory’s first process of “network” strategies, which restrict access to prestige goods or sacred knowledge, was exemplified by the restriction of access to artistic production in this oldest major Mesoamerican civilization.
The theory exemplifies the second, “corporate” strategy, which builds social solidarity and interdependence, with this city’s minimization of named kingship and building of public spaces like La Ciudadela and its Pyramids of the Sun and Moon.
The theory uses this cihuacoatl’s [kih-wuh-KWAH-tull] centering of Aztec ideology on the Flower Wars to exemplify both strategies. This general organized his uncle Itzcoatl [its-KWAH-tull] I’s book-burnings to wipe out knowledge of prior history.
Olmecs
Teotihuacan
Tlacaelel &lt;JG&gt;
This trait’s standard name may come from its use in Carl Rogers’ <em>On Becoming A Person,</em> which notes that a “fully-functioning person” has an “increasing” amount of it. For 10 points each:
Name this personality trait. R.R. McCrae found that it correlates strongly with the “divergent thinking” needed for creativity, and Jonathan Haidt often cites research showing more of it in liberals than conservatives.
Openness is part of this set, generated through factor analysis, which is the most experimentally robust minimal set of personality traits. Cambridge Analytica claimed to have data on these traits for millions of U.S. voters.
With Philip Peake, this Stanford psychologist challenged trait theory by tracking if college students displayed the same amount of the Big Five trait conscientiousness across 19 situations. His “marshmallow test” gauged delayed gratification in 4-year-olds.
openness to experience [prompt on O]
Big Five [or five factor model of personality; or CANOE traits; or OCEAN traits][If all items are given in time, accept this full list in any order: openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, neuroticism]
Walter Mischel &lt;MJ&gt;
An article by Atul Gawande argued these organizations could become more efficient by emulating the Cheesecake Factory. For 10 points each:
Name these organizations. Amy Finkelstein and coauthors have shown they act more like organizations in “normal” industries than commonly thought.
An issue in providing health insurance is this problem of asymmetric information, in which customers may spend more if the insurer will cover everything.
Einav, Finkelstein, and Schrimpf measured moral hazard among Medicare recipients by studying bunching near this infamous feature of the Medicare Part D pricing schedule. For dollar amounts in the range of this feature, but not above or below, all spending on prescription drugs was out-of-pocket.
hospitals
moral hazard [or hidden action; do not accept “adverse selection”]
doughnut hole &lt;SB&gt;
This idea’s developers applied Anthony Giddens’s structuration theory to predict that more hierarchical and professionalized fields will be more likely to display this property. For 10 points each:
Name this term coined by DiMaggio and Powell to describe how organizations tend to become more similar, even if it doesn’t improve efficiency. They put forth normative, mimetic, and coercive mechanisms for it to arise.
DiMaggio and Powell’s paper “The Iron Cage Revisited” takes its name from an image presented in this book by Max Weber, which describes the trend toward bureaucratic rationalization as a process of “disenchantment.”
Duff McDonald’s book The Firm applies the theory of isomorphism to the way this consulting firm makes its clients more similar. Marvin Bower developed much of the secretive, decentralized culture of this firm, which came under fire in 2019 for signing an illegal contract with the state-owned South African utility Eskom.
institutional isomorphism
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism [or Die protestantische Ethik und der Geist des Kapitalismus]
McKinsey &amp; Company &lt;SK&gt;
Narayana Kocherlakota showed that in environments where agents cannot commit, this thing is equivalent to public records of all transactions. For 10 points each:
Name this thing, whose traditional roles are as medium of exchange, unit of account, and store of value.
From 2009 to 2015, Kocherlakota was the Fed president in this city. While serving as Fed president in this city, Kocherlakota and his successor, Neel Kashkari, have both encouraged the FOMC to pursue more dovish policy.
A 1985 paper by George Akerlof and this other economist showed that anticipated changes in the money supply have real effects, since second-order deviations from rationality can have first-order effects.
money [do not accept or prompt on “currency” or other similar answers]
Minneapolis [do not accept or prompt on “St. Paul”]
Janet Yellen &lt;SB&gt;
This man developed a 5-item questionnaire on which people rate their agreement with phrases like “In most ways my life is close to my ideal,” which he called the Satisfaction With Life Scale. For 10 points each:
Name this extremely-cited Illinois psychologist, whose research finds that happiness tends to rise with income and then plateau above high five-figure incomes. His surveys measure a property he calls “subjective well-being.”
Diener is ostensibly a senior scientist at this organization. In the 1930s, its namesake founder George pioneered demographic sampling methods for high-quality public opinion polls.
Happiness research by this Nobel Laureate discovered “durational neglect,” in which people remember only the peak and end happiness levels of experiences. His work suggests that people asked about income and happiness fall prey to the “focusing illusion.”
Edward F. Diener
Gallup Organization
Daniel Kahneman [do not accept “Amos Tversky,” who died without receiving a Nobel and was also not involved in researching either of the things mentioned in this bonus part] &lt;MJ&gt;
A 2001 paper by Bertrand and Mullainathan show this quantity moves just as much with “obvious luck” as with actual performance. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. Emmanuel Saez has argued that its rise since the 1970s is due mainly to increased rent extraction, rather than changes in market structure or productivity.
Shareholders may try to incentivize CEOs to promote long-term growth by granting them these compensation schemes. These agreements stipulate some future date when their holders may purchase shares at an agreed upon strike price and then resell at the market rate.
A trader may pursue this strategy if they think the market rate will be far from the strike price (in either direction). This strategy consists of purchasing a call and a put option with the same strike price and expiration date.
CEO pay [or CEO compensation; or executive pay; or executive compensation; prompt on partial answer]
employee stock options
straddle &lt;SB&gt;
This theory’s developers Jeff Greenberg, Tom Pyszczynski [pish-CHIN-skee], and Sheldon Solomon tested it by priming municipal judges about “mortality salience” before bond hearings. For 10 points each:
Name this theory. It proposes that firm cultural worldviews and self-esteem arise as “anxiety buffering” systems in reaction to awareness of one’s mortality.
Though awareness of death correlates to activity in the frontal brain, terror spurs activity in this limbic system structure, named from the Greek for “almond.” Each hemisphere of the brain contains one of these structures sitting on the hippocampus.
A 2015 book is titled for this man’s adage that death is the “worm at the core” of human culture. Hugo Munsterberg was brought to Harvard by this man, whose functionalism tried to move beyond mere introspection.
terror management theory [prompt on TMT]
amygdalae
William James &lt;MJ&gt;
Joshua Kertzer and Dustin Tingley assessed the status of political psychology in international relations scholarship in the 2018 <em>Annual Review of Political Science</em>. Answer the following about their article, for 10 points each.
The article notes lower interest in this phenomenon, in which people don’t share conflicting views with a consensus-seeking clique. Irving Janis coined this term and studied how it warped JFK’s foreign policy toward Cuba.
The overview notes a shift toward studies of this kind of “cognition” suffused with emotion. A Canadian scholar used this one-syllable adjective to denote a type of “media” which completely engages a single sense in “high definition” with little need for mental effort.
Kertzer and Tingley cite four works by this Columbia theorist, who wrote 2017’s How Statesmen Think. This theorist of “system effects” brought psych to IR in his book Perception and Misperception in International Politics.
groupthink
hot or hot cognition; or hot media] (The psychology distinction is between “hot and cold cognition”; Marshall McLuhan contrasts “hot and cool media.”)
Robert Jervis &lt;MJ&gt;
The original experiment demonstrating this trait asked people to find a way to affix a candle to a wall using only thumbtacks and the box the thumbtacks came in. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term coined by Hans Duncker for the tendency of humans to see objects only in terms of their traditional or common use cases. A problem-solver with a narrow “mental set” might fall prey to this phenomenon.
Hans Duncker was part of this school of psychology, which Max Wertheimer launched in 1910s Germany. Its members studied how the mind automatically clusters discrete perceptions into whole objects.
Gestalt theorists found that the mind divides black-and-white images into these two layers, then decides which one goes in front. It’s ambiguous which of these two things is which in Edgar Rubin’s image of a vase whose sides look like faces in profile.
functional fixedness [or Funktionale Fixierung]
Gestalt psychology
figure [or Figur] and background [or Untergrund [(OON-tehr-)GRUHNT]] &lt;MJ&gt;
The theory of these things was presented with the example of a restaurant by Roger Schank and Robert Abelson, who denoted physical transitions in them as PTRANS and mental transitions as MTRANS, in all caps. For 10 points each:
Name this things first theorized by Silvian Tomkins, which Schank and Abelson grouped with “themes” and “plans.” People follow these short formulaic patterns to enact and understand social situations.
In his psychology work, Tomkins also studied this concept, which is the manner and extent to which a person expresses emotion. A person who reacts at the slightest touch has a “labile” one of these.
Flat affect is a diagnostic criterion for this mental condition with a Greek-derived name. The DSM-V [“five”] no longer distinguishes subtypes of it such as “paranoid” and “catatonic.”
scripts [or social scripts; accept script theory]
affect [accent is on the first syllable]
schizophrenia [accept paranoid schizophrenia or catatonic schizophrenia; prompt on psychosis or psychotic disorder(s)] &lt;MJ&gt;
Philosopher Elisabeth Lloyd argued that the idea that this biological phenomenon is an adaptation rather than a developmental by-product is an example of scientific bias in a book titled for “The Case of” it. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of sexual response. Sigmund Freud postulated a variety of this response that later doctors argued could be achieved by stimulating the G-spot.
This writer, who co-founded New York Radical Feminists with Shulamith Firestone, wrote in her pamphlet The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm that self-interest and fear of obsolescence leads men to maintain the idea that vaginal penetration is enough for orgasm
The sex researchers Masters and Johnson found that unlike the male orgasm, the female orgasm is not followed by one of these periods in which further ejaculation is not possible.
female orgasm [or obvious equivalents; prompt on orgasm]
Anne Koedt
refractory period <SK>
Harry Harlow summarized his monkey-torturing research on “contact comfort” in a book titled for <em>The Nature of</em> this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this intense positive emotion that often arises from pair bonding. Robert Sternberg’s “triangular” theory of this emotion breaks it down into commitment, intimacy, and passion.
This theory suggests that emotions like love arise when a “cognitive label” is combined with arousal symptoms like fast heartbeat. Its was tested in an experiment that involved injections of the fictitious the drug “Superoxin.”
This social psychologist contrasted “passionate love” and “companionate love” in a study of newlyweds. She and R.D. Clark did a notorious study on Florida State’s campus in which researchers posed as students to offer random passersby one-night stands; some men accepted the offer but zero women did.
love [accept The Nature of Love; accept Sternberg triangular theory of love; do not accept or prompt on synonyms]
two-factor theory of emotion [accept Schachter two-factor theory; accept Schachter–Singer theory or Schachter–Singer experiment(s)]
Elaine Hatfield [accept Clark and Hatfield study] &lt;MJ&gt;
In computational linguistics, these words require “reference resolution” through the analysis of linguistic and situational context. For 10 points each:
Name these words, exemplified by demonstratives and adverbs of time and place, which depend upon the context of their speaker. These words index positional attributes like “I am here.”
Deictics are exemplified by these parts of speech, which substitute for a noun.
Deictics are studied in this subfield of linguistics, whose other key concepts include H. Paul Grice’s notion implicature.
deictics [accept deixis]
pronouns
pragmatics &lt;JR&gt;
The first script created for this program, DOCTOR, was written to simulate a client-centered therapist. For 10 points each:
Identify this early chatbot program created by Joseph Weizenbaum and named after a female literary character. It is one of several candidates for the first program to pass a Turing test.
Bernie Cosell rewrote ELIZA in this functional language commonly used in early AI systems. This Polish-notation language comes in dialects such as Scheme and a “Common” variant.
This language processing program, developed by Terry Winograd, allowed users to instruct the computer to manipulate objects in what was essentially a virtual sandbox. Its memory allowed for it to remember context from past conversations.
ELIZA
Lisp [or LISP]
SHRDLU (“SURE”-d’loo or “S-H-R-D-L-U”)
This psychologist discovered that changes in the ratio of leg fat to muscle cause the U-shaped developmental trajectory in infants’ stepping movements. For 10 points each:
Name this developmental psychologist whose experiments on babies placed in fish tanks showed that babies learn new motor skills dynamically by interacting with their environment.
Thelen’s experiments let her to propose a dynamic explanation for this phenomenon, which occurs when 8-to-12-month-old infants attempt to locate a toy in the same box they recently found it, despite seeing it placed into a different box.
This Swiss psychologist discovered the A-not-B error in his experiments, which caused him to identify four stages of cognitive development, including sensorimotor and preoperational.
Esther Thelen
A-not-B error [or perseveration error; or perseverative search error; or stage four error]
Jean Piaget
This company had only 29 million pounds in cash in comparison to over 900 million pounds in debt and 500 million pounds in pension deficits when it went into liquidation in early 2018. For 10 points each:
Name this British multinational facilities management company, whose collapse has called the Private Finance Initiative’s objectives into question.
As a result of the Carillion liquidation, scrutiny has fallen on PricewaterhouseCoopers, one of the “big four” firms in this professional services field along with KPMG, Ernst &amp; Young, and Deloitte (duh-LOYT).
A union representing Carillion workers has sued this large investment management corporation for allegedly shorting Carillion stock while simultaneously managing its pensioners’ accounts. This Larry Fink-headed company is the world’s largest asset manager, with 5.7 trillion dollar in assets under management.
Carillion plc
accounting [or accountancy; accept forms of the word accounting]
BlackRock Inc.
Answer the following about the career of Harvard political scientist Theda Skocpol (“SCOTCH-paul”), for 10 points each.
With Vanessa Williamson, Skocpol analyzed the “remaking of Republican conservatism” by this political movement. Skocpol argues that this grassroots, anti-government movement arose in reaction to Republican establishment’s loss to Barack Obama in 2008.
Skocpol’s book Protecting Soldiers and Mothers built in her idea that, because this entity largely operates through bureaucracies, it has the “potential” to be autonomous, a concept known as this entity’s “autonomy theory.”
This book by Skocpol compares the course of similar events in France, Russia, and China, concluding that the title events tend to occur when governments falter under the weight of multiple crises.
Tea Party movement [accept answers mentioning Tea Party]
the state [accept state autonomy theory]
States and Social Revolutions
A type of auction named for this man, Edward Clarke, and Theodore groves is used by Facebook to sell ads. For 10 points each:
Name this Nobel laureate, who is the single namesake of a more specific version of the aforementioned auction mechanism in which the high bidder wins but pays the second-place bidder’s price.
Vickrey derived an early and limited version of this result stating that, as long as an auction results in the same outcome, i.e. the same winner, that winner will have paid the same price, regardless of the auction’s mechanism.
In VCG and simple Vickrey auctions, bidding one’s true valuation is this type of game theoretical strategy, meaning it is the best strategy regardless of the actions of the other bidders.
William Vickrey [or William Spencer Vickrey; accept Vickrey auction or Vickrey-Clarke-Groves auction]
revenue equivalence theorem
dominant strategy [accept answers mentioning forms of the word dominate or dominance]
Like menu costs, these costs are incurred in response to inflation. For 10 points each:
Name these costs that account for the extra time and effort spent transferring money from interest-bearing assets to hard cash so that purchases can be made. These costs are named for a material on footwear that metaphorically wears down from multiple trips to the bank.
In the 2000 paper “Inflation and Welfare,” this economist provided an estimate of shoe-leather costs by concluded that reducing annual inflation from 10% to 0% would increase real income by about 1%.
This Nobel laureate published a 1997 paper based on a survey of non-economists titled “Why Do People Dislike Inflation?”, which found that ordinary people generally believe inflation lowers standard of living due to sticky wages. This author of the book Irrational Exuberance is the namesake of a house-price index with Karl Case.
shoe-leather costs [prompt on “leather”]
Robert Lucas [or Robert Emerson Lucas Jr.]
Robert Shiller [or Robert James Shiller; accept Case-Shiller index]
In “Ten Theses on Politics,” Jacques Rancière championed “dissensus” over consensus because the latter reduces politics to this institution. For 10 points each:
Name this institution. A 1970 essay subtitled “Notes towards an Investigation” gives the example of a member of this institution “hailing” someone to illustrate how “interpellation” turns an individual into a subject.
The example of the police officer appears in the essay “Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses” by this French Marxist, who broke with his student Rancière over the 1968 student uprisings.
Rancière contributed to Althusser’s book on “reading” this unfinished Karl Marx book that presents a “critique of political economy.”
the police [or law enforcement; accept answers mentioning the idea of a police force or law enforcement institution; prompt on “state” or “ideological state apparatus”]
Louis Althusser [or Louis Pierre Althusser]
Capital: Critique of Political Economy [or Das Kapital: Kritik der politischen Ökonomie]
This man was derided as “the metaphysician of the homemade intellectual, and the prophet of the cracker-barrel agnostic” in an essay describing his “vogue.” For 10 points each:
Name this best-selling intellectual author in late-19th-century America, where his works were championed and published by Edward Youmans, the founder of Popular Science magazine.
“The Vogue of Spencer” is the second chapter of a book on this theory “in American thought.” Spencer was a leading proponent of what later came to be known as this theory, which applied evolutionary principles to argue that the “survival of the fittest” dominated societal and economic considerations.
Social Darwinism in American Thought was a book by this historian, who wrote the 1963 book Anti-Intellectualism in American Life.
Herbert Spencer [accept “The Vogue of Spencer”]
social Darwinism [or social Darwinists; accept Social Darwinism in American Thought]
Richard Hofstadter
A group at this university published pamphlets like “Swarmachines,” which approvingly describes jungle music as “the abstract diagram of planetary inhuman becoming.” For 10 points each:
Name this university where the student-run collective Ccru operated in the 1990s. Members of Ccru, including Sadie Plant and Nick Land, popularized ideas like accelerationism and speculative realism while working here.
A book by Ccru co-founder Mark Fisher, also known as k-punk, asks whether there is “no alternative” to a form of “realism” dominated by this economic system characterized by private ownership of the means of production.
Mark Fisher’s book Ghosts of My Life appropriated the term “hauntology” to describe a “nostalgia for lost futures” from this Jacques Derrida book, which describes the ten plagues of global capitalism and the emergence of a New International.
University of Warwick
capitalism [accept answers mentioning forms of the word capitalist]
Specters of Marx [or Spectres de Marx]
In the U.K., the “shy Tory factor” is a phenomenon similar to this one. For 10 points each:
Name this problem in political polling caused by respondents giving what they believe to be the socially desirable response rather than the true one. Its name comes from California’s 1982 gubernatorial election, in which the African-American candidate was ahead in the polls but lost anyway.
The American National Election Studies are administered by this university and Stanford. Researchers from this university wrote the 1960 book The American Voter based on their data collection since 1948.
The American Voter concluded that this variable was the basis for most voters’ choices. The “Michigan model” holds that this variable rarely changes except in “realignment elections” and predicts that people who have a “strong” form of it will engage in straight-ticket voting.
Bradley effect [accept Wilder effect]
University of Michigan [or UMich; prompt on “U of M” or “UM”]
party affiliation [or party identification; or party membership; accept partisanship; accept any answer indicating the political party a person identifies as a member of]
Two years before this action was taken, John E. Fryer gave a speech as “Dr. Henry Anonymous,” wearing a rubber joke-shop mask and a curly wig out of fear of professional reprisal. For 10 points each:
Name this action taken in 1974, partly based Evelyn Hooker’s experiments demonstrating that prominent psychologists were unable to accurately score psychological tests that they had not administered themselves.
Hooker’s experiment demonstrated that psychologists could not differentiate between “gay” and “straight” scores on this psychological test, which is scored using the Exner system and is based on showing subjects abstract images with bilateral symmetry.
Hooker also demonstrated similar problems in “diagnosing” homosexuality from this projective test, which was developed by Henry Murray and asks subjects to make up narratives about ambiguous pictures of people.
removing homosexuality from the DSM [accept any answer mentioning Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or DSM or DSM-II and the idea of making it so that being gay or homosexual was removed or no longer listed as a disorder; prompt on more general answers such as “revising the DSM”]
Rorschach test
thematic apperception test [or TAT]
In an influential study, researchers demonstrated how this effect changes decision making by presenting different wordings to describe the outcomes of interventions for an “unusual Asian disease.” For 10 points each:
Name this cognitive bias in which wording an outcome in a positive way leads people to be risk-averse, while wording an outcome in a negative way leads people to be risk-seeking.
The “unusual Asian disease” experiment was carried out by Daniel Kahneman in collaboration with this Israeli psychologist, with whom Kahneman devised prospect theory.
Charles Brainerd and Valerie Reyna developed a cognitive model that attempts to explain biases and fallacies based on “fuzzy” instances of these representations of memories. That theory draws on an early theory that describes memories as “multiple” instances of these concepts.
framing effect [accept frame analysis or other answers mentioning forms of the word frame]
Amos Tversky [Amos Nathan Tversky]
traces [accept fuzzy-trace theory or multiple trace theory]
The book <em>Quest for Excitement</em> examines the role that “sport and leisure” play in this process. For 10 points each:
Name this process that titles a two-volume work whose second volume discusses the formation of states.
This Jewish-German thinker founded figurational sociology by writing The Civilizing Process.
The first volume of The Civilizing Process examines the “history” of these rules of etiquette. The third volume of Claude Lévi-Strauss’s Mythologiques traces the “origin” of a subset of these rules used at the “table.”
civilizing process [or the process of civilization; accept The Civilizing Process or Über den Prozess der Zivilisation]
Norbert Elias
manners [or manières; accept table manners or The History of Manners or The Origin of Table Manners or L’Origine des manières de table]
Karen Ho wrote about the “institutional culture of crisis” in these institutions to in a discussion of downsizing in the 2000s. For 10 points each:
Name these institutions, the subject of Joris Luyendijk’s (LIE-un-dike’s) Swimming with Sharks, which discusses the lifetime of social separation involved in working in them.
Karen Ho’s book Liquidated posits a “feedback loop” of this name between Ivy League schools and investment banks. Ho’s research is cited in Chris Hayes’s book Twilight of the Elites, which is subtitled for “America after” this concept.
Ho’s Liquidated is subtitled as a work of this type “of Wall Street.” The “salvage” form of this type of culturally descriptive work is produced to preserve the practices of a dying culture.
banks [accept investment banks; prompt on “financial institutions” or similar more general answers]
meritocracy [accept meritocratic feedback loop]
ethnography [accept salvage ethnography or “An Ethnography of Wall Street”]
This anthropologist worked with Jacques van Vlack to produce the video <em>Microcultural Incidents in Ten Zoos</em>, which shows families around the world feeding elephants. For 10 points each,
Name this UPenn anthropologist who pioneered the cultural study of body movements, such as facial expressions and gestures, in a research area he called “kinesics.”
Birdwhistell was a frequent collaborator with this Canadian-American sociologist, who pioneered dramaturgical analysis in The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life.
Birdwhistell’s analysis of filmed interactions led to collaborations with this man, who co-wrote a “photographic analysis” of culture in the book Balinese Character.
Ray Birdwhistell
Erving Goffman
Gregory Bateson
An employee of this company authored a memo criticizing its “Ideological Echo Chamber,” which cited David Schmitt’s research on sex differences in personality and Richard Lippa’s review on differences in neuroticism. For 10 points each:
Name this tech company that fired James Damore for sharing that memo on its diversity policies on an internal mailing list.
This psychologist expressed sympathy for Damore over his firing, despite criticizing research that attributes gender inequality to innate differences in books such as Delusions of Gender and Testosterone Rex.
Damore cited, and Fine criticized, this psychologist’s theories that women are more interested in “empathizing” than “systemizing.” He conjectured that autism-spectrum disorders result from an “extreme male brain.”
Google LLC [accept Alphabet Inc.]
Cordelia Fine
Simon Baron-Cohen
In 2015, this economist wrote an exploration of behavior economics titled <em>Misbehaving</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this economist who co-authored a book that explores the attitude of “libertarian paternalism,” by which governments want to respect the freedom of their citizens while simultaneously wanting to influence them into making good decisions.
With Cass Sunstein, Thaler wrote this 2008 book suggesting that policymakers can improve citizens’ “decisions about health, wealth, and happiness” through positive reinforcement and “choice architecture.”
Martin Binder has examined the idea of “libertarian paternalism” through the lens of this approach to economics, which was revived in 1970s and 1980s in part thanks to a 1982 book written by Richard Nelson and Sidney Winter.
Richard H. Thaler
Nudge [or Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness]
evolutionary economics [accept answers that mention forms of the words evolution or Darwinian]
Kenneth MacCorquodale’s 1970 rebuttal of this essay argued that the abstruse technical vocabulary that it derides was, in fact, an attempt to paraphrase vernacular terms and make them objective. For 10 points each:
Name this 1959 essay arguing that, if a particular theory were taken literally, “train[ing] machine guns on large crowds of people who have been instructed to shout” a scientific idea would be proof of the idea’s validity. This essay published in the journal Language was central to the “cognitive revolution” in psychology.
Three years before Chomsky’s review, George Miller helped start the cognitive revolution by arguing that the “magical number of seven, plus or minus two” governed the “working” form of this faculty.
This German-American psychologist, considered the “father of cognitive psychology,” wrote the 1967 book Cognitive Psychology. He advocated “ecologically valid” settings for experiments in Cognition and Reality.
Noam Chomsky’s review of B. F. Skinner’s Verbal Behavior [or “Review of Skinner’s Verbal Behavior”; prompt on less-specific answers mentioning “Avram Noam Chomsky and B. F. Skinner”]
working memory [accept short-term memory]
Ulric Neisser [or Ulric Gustav Neisser; or Dick Neisser]
This thinker drew from Machiavelli in dividing people in political power into the categories of “foxes” and “lions” and describing the historical oscillation between governments led by both. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian thinker who explained regime change as a process dependent on the “circulation of elites.”
This sociologist criticized Pareto for using mathematical proportions of the population to define the “elite” in his study of American society titled The Power Elite.
Pareto’s methods of identifying elites were later criticized in this American anthropologist’s 1983 book Elites: Ethnographic Issues. He wrote the book Anthropology as Cultural Critique with Michael M. J. Fischer.
Vilfredo Pareto [or Vilfredo Federico Damaso Pareto]
C. Wright Mills [or Charles Wright Mills]
George E. Marcus
The author of this book penned a 2010 editorial with Anmol Chaddha about “why we’re teaching <em>The Wire</em> at Harvard” whose byline notes that this book inspired the show’s second season. For 10 points each:
Name this 1996 sociological study that examines the poverty resulting from structural changes leading to job loss in urban ghettos.
The author of When Work Disappears, William Julius Wilson, wrote the 2006 book There Goes the Neighborhood, which examines demographic change in four neighborhoods in this city. Wilson’s student Sudhir Venkatesh conducted research at public housing projects in this city published as Gang Leader for a Day.
Wilson is an exponent of a theory of urban poverty based on a “mismatch” of this economic variable. The Tiebout (TEE-boh) model explains how people dissatisfied with local governance can “vote with their feet” by changing this variable.
When Work Disappears [or When Work Disappears: The World and the New Urban Poor]
Chicago
spatial variable [accept spatial mismatch or answers indicating location or geography or where people live]
A paper titled for the “strength” of these concepts is, at over 47,000 citations, among the most cited in the social sciences. For 10 points each:
Name these concepts that, according to the sociologist Mark Granovetter, are chiefly responsible for the “embeddedness” of an individual within a social network.
A classic 1974 Granovetter book studies the process by which 282 Americans use their social ties to engage in networking and achieve this goal, a process social scientists now study using data from Monster and LinkedIn.
The “weak ties hypothesis,” under which individuals A and B will likely have a weak tie to one another if they both have strong ties to individual C, was proposed by this social scientist and game theorist who published the 1963 paper “Mathematical Models of Social Interaction” while teaching at the University of Michigan.
weak ties [or weak social ties; accept “The Strength of Weak Ties”; prompt on “social ties”]
getting a job [accept any answer indicating job or career seeking or getting hired; accept Getting a Job]
Anatol Rapoport [or Anatoly Borisovich Rapoport]
Kenneth Williams worked with this psychologist on experiments in which infant rats were put through mazes and retained problem-solving skills into adulthood, which helped inspire the Head Start program. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian psychologist whose 1949 book The Organization of Behavior introduced a postulate about neurons, now thought to be correct, that is often summarized as “cells that fire together wire together.”
Hebb’s insight flowed from the idea of the “perception-action cycle,” which traces to this American psychologist’s paper criticizing “The Reflex-Arc Concept in Psychology.”
Hebb’s postulate was influential on David Marr’s attempt to create a computational model of this one of the five human senses, which Eleanor Gibson tested in infants using a simulated “cliff.”
Donald Hebb [or Donald Olding Hebb; accept Hebb’s postulate or Hebb’s rule or Hebbian learning]
John Dewey
vision [or eyesight; or visual faculty; accept visual cliff]
A table illustrating this mathematical inequality shows that, in the world economy, it did not hold from about 1940 to 1950 because of taxation policy, postwar reconstruction, and demographic transition. For 10 points each:
Name this mathematical inequality, couched in terms of two variables, that underlies the argument about wealth inequality in the book Capital in the Twenty-First Century.
This French economist’s discussion of “r is greater than g” is central to his 2014 book Capital in the Twenty-First Century.
This economist’s 2015 paper “Yes, r &gt; g. So What?” argues that “r is greater than g” is unremarkable because it holds true in most models’ steady-state equilibria. In 2013, this man published a paper titled “Defending the One Percent” in which he argued that wealth was the “just deserts” of “significant economic contributions.”
r is greater than g [accept any answer mentioning r &gt; g or net rate of return to capital exceeds growth rate of output]
Thomas Piketty
Greg Mankiw [or Nicholas Gregory Mankiw]
This concept is central to its deviser’s treatment for negative automatic thoughts, or NATs. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that groups together the “self,” the “world,” and the “future” as three subjects that sufferers of depression have automatic, irrationally pessimistic thoughts about.
The cognitive triad is central to Beck’s approach to therapy, which is described by both this adjective and “cognitive.”
This American psychologist devised a system called rational emotive behavior therapy, which was one of the approaches that influenced Beck’s development of CBT.
Beck’s cognitive triad [or Beck’s negative triad; or Beck’s triad; prompt on “triad”]
behavioral [accept cognitive behavioral therapy]
Albert Ellis
This belief was developed in a book that drew from the author’s Cambridge thesis, <em>Walt Whitman: A Study in the Evolution of Personality</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this quasi-spiritual and largely debunked belief system closely associated with New Age and New Thought. Like gestalt, it is based on the idea that complex things should be analyzed not as the sum of their parts but in their entirety.
This two-time South African prime minister, whose loss in 1948 to the National Party led to the creation of apartheid, coined the term “holism” in his book Holism and Evolution.
Critics of South Africa’s pre-apartheid racial caste system noted the irony that Smuts had created holism and written the first draft of this document’s preamble, whose finalized form begins “we the peoples” and includes the goal “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.”
holism [accept answers mentioning holistic such as holistic thinking]
Jan Smuts [or J. C. Smuts; or Jan Christiaan Smuts]
United Nations Charter [or U.N. Charter; prompt on answers mentioning “charter”]
Dwight Conquergood’s essay “Rethinking Ethnography” argues that this method “privileges the body as a site of knowing.” For 10 points each:
Name this dominant paradigm in ethnographic research pioneered by Bronislaw Malinowski, which takes place outside of the laboratory, library, or other workplace.
The distinction between cultural writing from the perspective of the subjects versus the perspective of the observer is captured in these two contrasting four-word terms invented by Kenneth Pike.
This linguistic anthropologist devised a rigorous emic anthropological paradigm through the application of componential analysis to kinship terminology. His major works include Culture, Language, and Society and Cultural Anthropology and Linguistics.
fieldwork [or field research; or participant observation; accept any answer indicating research in the field or observational research or participatory research; accept, BUT DO NOT REVEAL, etics]
emic(s) and etic(s) [accept answers in either order; accept any answer mentioning emic and etic]
Ward Goodenough ("good enough") [or Ward Hunt Goodenough]
This text uses the term “symbolic universe” to describe the set of traditions that make up the symbolic totality of the institutional order. For 10 points each:
The argument that knowledge is based on linguistic representations of patterns arising from the roles that people take on within society is central to what 1966 book on the “sociology of knowledge”?
Peter Berger and Thomas Luckmann’s The Social Construction of Reality claims that the growth of specialized knowledge outpaces the growth of general knowledge because of this process that Émile Durkheim examined “in society” and Adam Smith illustrated with the example of a pin factory.
Part I of The Social Construction of Reality focuses on the “foundations of knowledge” within this conceptual framework, which is the subject of a book on its “practice” by Michel de Certeau and a “critique” by Henri Lefebvre.
The Social Construction of Reality: A Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge
division of labor [accept The Division of Labor in Society or De la division du travail social]
everyday life [accept routine life or vie quotidienne or The Practice of Everyday Life or The Critique of Everyday Life]
Ellison Burton and William Sanjour first demonstrated the possible efficacy of this system in a series of microeconomic computer simulations conducted in 1970 at the NAPCA. For 10 points each:
Name this system that, in the EU, proceeds via the ETS, which operates using “credits” and “offsets.”
Thomas H. Tietenberg’s book Emissions Trading traces the cap-and-trade system to the ideas in this economist’s paper “The Problem of Social Cost,” which introduced his namesake “theorem” about externalities.
This Yale economist and cap-and-trade skeptic developed the DICE and the RICE models for analyzing the impacts of climate change. He took over editing the textbook Economics from Paul Samuelson in the 1980s.
cap and trade [or emissions trading; or CAT; accept answers mentioning forms of the word capping and trading or emissions trades; accept more specific answers mentioning “carbon” or “pollution” or similar]
Ronald Coase [or Ronald Harry Coase; accept Coase theorem]
William Nordhaus [or Bill Nordhaus; or William Dawbney Nordhaus]
The name of this belief system was coined in a 1995 essay by media theorists Richard Barbrook and Andy Cameron, who linked its rise to the romantic individualism of Stewart Brand, who founded the <em>Whole Earth Catalog</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this “ideology” that, according to Barbrook and Cameron, married concepts derived from the New Left and New Right with elements of anti-statism, 1960s counterculture, and techno-utopianism.
The Californian ideology traces to the ideas of this Canadian media theorist, who wrote that the “medium is the message” and coined the term “global village.”
Adam Curtis’s documentary about the Californian ideology, All Watched Over by Machines of Loving Grace, is named for a poem written by this California poet and novelist, who also wrote In Watermelon Sugar.
Californian ideology
Marshall McLuhan [or Herbert Marshall McLuhan]
Richard Brautigan [or Richard Gary Brautigan]
This anthropologist’s fieldwork inspired her novel <em>Return to Laughter</em>, which she wrote under the pseudonym Elenore Smith Bowen. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist whose oft-anthologized article “Shakespeare in the Bush” describes her attempts to tell the plot of Hamlet to members of Nigeria’s Tiv people.
The Tiv people are a prominent example of a society with segmentary lineage, like this Nilotic ethnic group which is the subject of a trilogy by an anthropologist who co-edited African Political Systems with Meyer Fortes.
Laura Bohannan’s husband Paul divided this activity among the Tiv into three spheres. The kula ring is a ceremonial form of this activity.
Laura Bohannan [or Laura Marie Altman Bohannan; prompt on Laura Marie Altman Smith]
Nuer (“NOO-ur”)
exchange [accept gift-giving] &lt;WN, Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about some controversial laureates of the Nobel Prize in Economics, for 10 points each:
Many people protested Milton Friedman’s Nobel victory because of his relationship to this group of Chilean economists, many of whom were given positions in Augusto Pinochet’s government.
When this Israeli-American economist shared a Nobel with Thomas Schelling, his detractors argued that he used game theory to prop up his pro-Israel political stances.
According to the biography A Beautiful Mind, the controversy arising from this mentally ill and allegedly anti-Semitic man winning the prize led the Nobel committee to overhaul the selection process.
Chicago Boys
Robert Aumann (“OW-mahn”) [or Robert John Aumann; or Yisrael Aumann]
John Nash [or John Forbes Nash, Jr.] &lt;WN, Social Science&gt;
In the sentence “Pranav hosed himself,” the pronoun “himself” is bound by “Pranav,” which serves as this type of expression. For 10 points each:
Give this term for an expression that lends its meaning to a later anaphor. A type of ellipsis known as ACD, or [this term]-contained deletion, occurs in sentences like “We zeroed every bonus that you did.”
ACD can be explained by positing that the sentence is actually ordered “Every bonus that you zeroed, we zeroed” in this representation. In the Y-model, a sentence’s structure splits into Phonetic Form and this other representation, which is the input to semantic interpretation.
The aforementioned “himself” is this type of pronoun, which in English ends in “self” or “selves.”
antecedent
Logical Form [or LF]
reflexive pronoun &lt;EC, Social Science&gt;
This region underwent significant deindustrialization and population decline beginning approximately in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
Identify this region of the United States, which includes many economically-distressed former manufacturing hubs like Youngstown, Gary, Flint, and Cleveland. It encompasses much of the Great Lakes region, stretching from Western New York to the Western shore of Lake Michigan.
One possible method of recovery for the Rust Belt would be the return to the region of heavy industrial production which had moved to lower-cost countries. This term is used to denote the return to a country or region of jobs and other business activities which had previously been moved overseas.
Some of those optimistic about the future of the Rust Belt believe that the rise of this technology may lead to a return of industrial jobs, since it permits diverse components to be produced quickly near the location of their use, reducing transportation and storage costs. This technology uses industrial-scale 3D printers to produce goods.
Rust Belt
onshoring [or re-shoring or backshoring or inshoring]
additive manufacturing &lt;MC, Other Academic&gt;
Answer the following about how social scientists have explained the 1997 Asian financial crisis, for 10 points each:
This 2002 Joseph Stiglitz book blames the crisis on the neoliberal policies of the IMF, and more broadly on the Washington Consensus.
This woman’s book Casino Capitalism blames the crisis on the volatility of the international financial system. This author of States and Markets referred to the modern system of nation states as “Westfailure,” punning on the term “Westphalia system.”
Paul Krugman is among the economists who have emphasized the role of this situation, in which an agent takes on greater risk because they know someone else will bear the cost of the risk.
Globalization and Its Discontents
Susan Strange
moral hazard &lt;WN, Social Science&gt;
The neofunctionalist interpretation pioneered by Ernst Haas argues that people like Jean Monnet have carried out this process primarily through “spill-over” between different domains. For 10 points each:
Identify this process. It has sometimes been proposed that this process should take place at “two speeds” or “multiple speeds.” The Charlemagne Prize rewards contributions to this process, such as those made by Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi through a movement he established in 1923.
The Chinese government has recently been making efforts to achieve increased economic integration in Asia, including the establishment in 2015 of this new institution, which was designed to compete with the Asian Development Bank. The US failed to convince key allies like Australia and Britain not to join it.
A fully-integrated European Union is sometimes seen as having the potential to become one of these political entities, which have the ability to exercise authority and exert influence globally. China is often seen as a rising one of these things, while the United States is generally recognized as being the only political one in the world today.
European integration [accept equivalents like the integration of the European Union or European unification or the federalization of Europe]
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank [or AIIB]
superpowers &lt;MC, Current Events&gt;
In <em>Seeing Like a State</em>, James Scott argues that the employment of this type of map contributed to a decline in traditional land tenure arrangements, which it was unable to capture. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of map, which shows the locations of parcels of land, who owns them, and sometimes their value. Scott argues that these types of maps were used to help bring about a shift from communal to individual taxation.
As another example of seeing like a state, Scott cites the way in which the land of the Northwest Territory was divided into these administrative units, which were typically squares with six mile sides. That was done to make the land more easily sold as a commodity and taxed.
Scott discusses the management of these environments in Germany, which was also practiced by Gifford Pinchot (“PIN-shoh”), and which damaged their biodiversity and made traditional activities like gathering kindling difficult or impossible. A book by Eduardo Kohn argues that because these environments signify, they are able to “think.”
cadastral maps [or cadasters; or cadastral surveys]
townships
forests [or rainforests or woods] &lt;MC, Geography&gt;
Gerd Gigerenzer analogized our use of these constructs to the “untutored mind… running on shoddy software” and described them as “fast and frugal.” For 10 points each:
Name these general “rules of thumb” often contrasted with algorithms. Ones named for “availability” and “representativeness” were identified by Kahneman and Tversky, who theorized that they lead to cognitive biases.
Gerd Gigerenzer co-wrote a 2001 book that attempted to reframe this concept within an “adaptive toolbox.” This concept arises from our use of heuristics and their associated biases, a behavior described as “satisficing.”
“Satisficers” are noted to be happier than “maximizers” in this psychologist’s 2004 book The Paradox of Choice, which argues that freedom of choice leads to greater dissatisfaction.
heuristics
bounded rationality
Barry Schwartz &lt;RK, Social Science&gt;
Ernest Gellner argues that communism is differentiated from capitalism in part because the former is incompatible with the realization of this concept. For 10 points each:
Identify this concept, which has been promoted as a part of democratization, and which denotes organizations like universities, foundations, unions, and clubs which can advance the interests of private citizens independently from the state. It is sometimes said to constitute a third, voluntary sector beyond the public and private ones.
This Hungarian-born billionaire is known for funding civil society organizations around the globe through his Open Society Foundations, which have attracted criticism from Viktor Orbán and have been accused of funding protesters in the US. His Quantum Fund is said to have “broke[n] the Bank of England.”
In 2017 Orbán’s government passed measures that would have restricted the operations of foreign-funded universities, a measure which was widely seen as an attack on this Budapest-based private university, which was founded by Soros and where Gellner was an early leader.
civil society
George Soros [or György Schwartz or Soros György]
Central European University [or CEU] &lt;MC, Current Events&gt;
This book notes that subjects evaluate a computer more favorably if they complete the evaluation using the same computer. For 10 points each:
Name this book in which Clifford Nass and Byron Reeves argue that human interactions with computers and television are “fundamentally social and natural,” like real-life interactions.
Nass and Reeves claim that because people are polite to machines, we must create media that are polite to people by incorporating this thinker’s maxims of quantity, quality, relation, and manner into their design.
In “A Virtual Reprise of the Stanley Milgram Obedience Experiments,” Slater et al. found that subjects who administered these punishments to an avatar they could see and hear responded to the situation as if it were real.
The Media Equation: How People Treat Computers, Television, and New Media Like Real People and Places
Herbert Paul Grice
electric shocks &lt;EC, Social Science&gt;
A common attributional bias associated with this process involves blaming one’s own failures on external factors, but an actor’s failures on internal factors. For 10 points each:
Name this process, also a common method of data collection in psychology that’s traditionally contrasted with experimentation. It is often divided into “naturalistic” and “systematic” varieties.
Norman Triplett’s observation of various cycling times inspired the discovery of this effect, in which the presence of an audience improves the performance of easy tasks and harms the performance of harder tasks.
Jean Lave (“jeen layv”) and Étienne Wenger formulated this type of learning, which requires “legitimate peripheral participation,” rather than simple observation. It was extended to theorize “cognitive apprenticeships” by Brown, Collins, and Duguid (“doo-GHID”), who discussed how this type of cognition leads to a “culture of learning.”
observation [prompt on synonyms like watching]
social facilitation [prompt on audience effect]
situated [accept situated learning or situated cognition] &lt;RK, Social Science&gt;
This book analyzes three gravestone designs to support its argument that New England and England had similar cultures in the seventeenth century, which diverged and then reconverged in the eighteenth century. For 10 points each:
Name this pioneering work of historical archaeology by James Deetz. This book claims that studying seemingly insignificant artifacts like ceramic fragments can reveal important cultural trends.
Deetz argues that freedmen’s shotgun houses at the site of Parting Ways in this city were influenced by West African patterns. Edward Winslow’s Mourt’s Relation is an early history of a colony centered in this city.
Deetz’s Eurocentric definition of historical archaeology limits its scope to “the spread of European cultures throughout the world since” this century and its impact on indigenous cultures. Vasco da Gama discovered a sea route to India at the end of this century.
In Small Things Forgotten: An Archaeology of Early American Life
Plymouth
fifteenth century [or 1400s] &lt;EC, Other History&gt;
A 1961 book critiquing John Austin’s approach to these constructs distinguishes between “internal” and “external” points of view in response to these constructs. For 10 points each:
Name these constructs, categorized into “primary” ones and “secondary” ones that govern the creation of the “primary” ones. The latter group contains one of these “of recognition,” which determines their validity.
H. L. A. Hart’s The Concept of Law, which defines law as “the union of primary and secondary rules,” supports a “legal” form of this philosophy, unrelated to a similarly-named philosophy pioneered by Auguste Comte emphasizing science and sensory experience.
Ronald Dworkin’s essay “Model of Rules” critiques Hart’s logical positivism by suggesting laws are made of rules and these things, which he contrasts with policies and claims have a “weight,” rather than being all-or-nothing.
rules
positivism
principles &lt;RK, Philosophy&gt;
Michael Gottfredson and Travis Hirschi emphasized the role of self-control in predicting this behavior in their book <em>A General Theory of</em> <em>[this behavior]</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this behavior that is facilitated by community apathy according to the broken windows theory. Important statistics in the study of this behavior include the recidivism rate and the homicide rate.
Edwin Sutherland drew on social learning theory to posit that the “differential” type of this process leads to crime. It’s not bias, but an online Harvard test of the “implicit” form of this process asks the user to sort images of black and white men and positive or negative words.
This framework models crime as the convergence of a motivated offender, a suitable target, and the lack of a guardian or oversight. It was developed by Marcus Felson and Lawrence Cohen.
crime [or deviance]
differential association [or implicit association test; prompt on IAT]
routine activity theory [or routine activities theory; prompt on crime opportunity theory] &lt;AK, Social Science&gt;
A 2009 documentary titled after this term centers on the murder of Fred Martinez, a Navajo sixteen-year-old who identified as <em>nádleehí</em> (“nahd-LAY-hee”). For 10 points each:
Give this umbrella term derived from the Ojibwe phrase niizh manidoowag (“neezh muh-nih-DOH-wug”), which was adopted at a 1990 conference to replace the derogatory anthropological term “berdache” (“bur-DASH”).
In his Handbook of the Indians of California, this anthropologist controversially claimed that two-spirits in the San Gabriel Valley entered their status by choice rather than being selected.
In Patterns of Culture, this anthropologist cites We-wha (“WAY-wah”), a famous Zuni “man-woman,” to support her claim that two-spirits have an equal chance to become “functioning members of the society.”
two-spirit [or twospirited; or Two Spirits]
Alfred Kroeber [or Alfred Louis Kroeber]
Ruth Benedict [or Ruth Fulton Benedict] &lt;EC, Social Science&gt;
In this book’s second section, titled “Yielding Place for New,” the author discusses various invented works of pulp fiction such as “Death Cab for Cutie” that are “invitations to a candy floss world.” For 10 points each:
Name this Richard Hoggart book that examines how the “massification” and “Americanisation” of British culture have uprooted the values of “An Older Order.”
The Uses of Literacy is subtitled for “Aspects” of this group’s life. A statistical study of these people by Friedrich Engels is titled for their “Condition.”
This New Left author attempted to “rescue… the Luddite cropper… from the enormous condescension of posterity” in his The Making of the English Working Class, which reevaluates the development of working class consciousness.
The Uses of Literacy
the English working class [accept “Aspects of Working-Class Life”; accept The Condition of the Working Class in England]
E. P. Thompson [or Edward Palmer Thompson] &lt;RK, Social Science&gt;
The use of this process as a source of evidence in psychology was promoted by Wilhelm Wundt (“voont”). For 10 points each:
Name this process of observing or reflecting upon one’s own mental state, which the behaviorists rejected as a source of psychological evidence.
T. D. Wilson and this psychologist argued that introspection is not a reliable source of evidence about how people really think in the paper “Telling More Than We Know.” He argued that East Asians think differently than Westerners in his book The Geography of Thought.
This student of Wilhelm Wundt considered introspection to be the only valid psychological methodology, and developed a detailed experimental methodology based on introspection. He also coined the word “empathy.”
introspection
Richard Nisbett [or Richard Eugene Nisbett]
Edward Titchener [or Edward Bradford Titchener] &lt;WN, Social Science&gt;
According to Douglas Yates, these states engender a namesake mentality in which “contracts are given as an expression of gratitude rather than as a reflection of economic rationale.” For 10 points each:
Give this term for a state that derives most of its revenue externally, most commonly through oil exports, and thus becomes unaccountable to its citizens. Hossein Mahdavy popularized this term in a 1970 article that analyzed Iran as this type of state.
There are many oil-rich rentier states in the area known by the acronym MENA, which refers to this region and North Africa.
This framework, developed by Singer and Prebisch, argues that the developed core exploits and impoverishes the underdeveloped periphery within a capitalist world-system through the extraction of resources.
rentier (“ren-TEER”) states
Middle East
dependency theory &lt;EC, Social Science&gt;
The passage that introduces this concept describes African-Americans as the “seventh son,” labeling this concept the “sense of always looking at one’s self through the eyes of others, of measuring one’s soul by the tape of a world.” For 10 points each:
Name this concept introduced in the chapter “Of Our Spiritual Strivings.”
This sociologist coined the term “double consciousness” in his book The Souls of Black Folk. This man also co-founded the NAACP.
Du Bois’s dream of creating this work failed due to lack of funding, but it inspired a similar work edited by Henry Louis Gates and Kwame Anthony Appiah (“APP-ee-ah”) that was published in 1999.
double consciousness
W. E. B. Du Bois (“doo-BOYSS”) [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois]
Encyclopedia Africana [accept Africana: The Encyclopedia of the African and African-American Experience] &lt;AK, Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about a form of creaky voice known as stød (“stood”), for 10 points each:
Stød is a suprasegmental feature of this North Germanic language, whose orthography was adapted into the Bokmål (“BOOK-mole”) system used for a neighboring language.
The Southern Jutlandic dialect of Danish has this type of system, also found in Norwegian and Swedish, instead of stød. These systems lie between stress systems and tonal systems in that they allow contrastive tone only on stressed syllables.
In emphatic speech, stød is often realized as a glottal stop, a sound produced by closing this pair of membranes stretched across the larynx. These structures vibrate to produce voiced sounds like [z] (“zzz”).
Danish [or dansk]
pitch accent [or tone accent]
vocal folds [or vocal cords] &lt;EC, Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about the US tax code and some of the economic incentives involved in it, for 10 points each:
This tax is placed on the increased value of an asset after the asset is sold. Different rates for this tax are placed on short and long term assets in America, supposedly to discourage speculative investment.
This tax, much derided by economists, ensures that high income earners pay some income tax. This complicated tax is only owed if its tentative value is higher than an individual’s normal tax rate.
This doubly-eponymous hypothesis suggests that the optimal tax rate on capital income is 0. It is based off some 1980s papers which generally argue that under an infinite lives simplification, fear of future income taxation means that taxes on future income, and thus capital, approaches 0.
Capital Gains Tax [accept short term capital gains tax rate and long term capital gains tax rate]
Alternative Minimum Tax
Chamley-Judd zero capital income hypothesis &lt;HB&gt;
Answer the following about the US tax code and some of the economic incentives involved in it, for 10 points each:
This tax is placed on the increased value of an asset after the asset is sold. Different rates for this tax are placed on short and long term assets in America, supposedly to discourage speculative investment.
This tax, much derided by economists, ensures that high income earners pay some income tax. This complicated tax is only owed if its tentative value is higher than an individual’s normal tax rate.
This doubly-eponymous hypothesis suggests that the optimal tax rate on capital income is 0. It is based off some 1980s papers which generally argue that under an infinite lives simplification, fear of future income taxation means that taxes on future income, and thus capital, approaches 0.
Capital Gains Tax [accept short term capital gains tax rate and long term capital gains tax rate]
Alternative Minimum Tax
Chamley-Judd zero capital income hypothesis &lt;HB&gt;
Answer the following about mixed languages. For 10 points each:
These simplified mixed languages often result from trade or other contact between two groups without a language in common. They are contrasted with creoles, which result when these languages acquire fixed grammatical structure and native speakers.
Orphans in this modern-day country created a German-based creole called Unserdeutsch. This island country is known for having over 800 distinct languages, making creoles rather necessary to get by.
Advocates of universal grammar often point to this language as an example of a spontaneously generated creole. This language is best understood as a mixture of hundreds of different “home-sign” systems, combined when its users attended a boarding school together.
pidgins
Papua New Guinea
Nicaraguan Sign Language [or Idioma de Señas de Nicaragua; do NOT accept or prompt on “Lenguaje de Señas de Nicaragua”] &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
This man’s symmetry theorem states that import taxes and export taxes have the same effect. For 10 points each:
Name this market socialist, whose theory of distributive efficiency argues that equal distribution of wealth results in maximum total utility.
According to the Marshall-Lerner condition, this quantity will increase if and only if the sum of export and import demand elasticities exceeds one. This quantity equals gross exports minus gross imports.
The Lerner index measures a firm’s ability to have prices above marginal cost. A Lerner index of 1 indicates this situation, in which one firm constitutes the entire market of an industry.
Abba P. Lerner [or Abraham Ptachya Lerner]
balance of trade [or net exports; or commercial balance; prompt on NX]
monopoly &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
Answer these questions about the work of your favorite sociologist, Robert K. Merton. For 10 points each:
Merton developed this theory to show how society encouraged people to conform. Merton said that when individuals have a gap between their goals and their current status, the namesake phenomenon occurs.
Along with the latent function, this “function” was formulated by Merton. This function represents the consequences people expect from an action in Merton’s structural functionalist paradigm.
Merton wrote a work sometimes called a “Shandean postscript” that investigates the origin of this title phrase. This phrase was used by Newton to explain how discoveries depended on the work of predecessors.
strain theory
manifest function
“Standing on the shoulders of giants” [accept “nanos gigantum humeris insidentes”] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
Answer the following about the psychology of perception. For 10 points each:
In one psychological experiment, participants were asked to count the number of basketball passes made by players wearing white shirts, while a man in a costume of this type walks across the scene.
This British psychologist and neuroscientist made groundbreaking developments in the field of visual processing. He wrote three papers about computational theory in the cerebellum, neocortex, and hippocampus, respectively.
The perception theory of this school of psychology is based on principles such as reification and multistability, as well as the notion that experience tends to occur in an orderly pattern.
gorilla suit [prompt on ape or monkey]
David Marr
Gestalt psychology &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
While giving a speech to the American Sociological Association, this man defined the term “white-collar crime” as something the aristocrats did that was wrong. For 10 points each;
Name this sociologist and author of Principles of Criminology. He also developed the theory of differential association, which purports to explain how some people become criminals.
Sutherland’s differential association theory attempts to explain actions of this type. Sociologists use this term for actions that violate norms or rules, such as laws.
Sutherland primarily worked at this Midwestern university. Its sociologists, like George Mead and Robert Park, formed a namesake School with theories of urban sociology, one of which was based on circles.
Edwin Sutherland
deviance [accept word forms such as deviant]
University of Chicago &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the economics of fossil fuels.
In The Coal Question, this economist described a namesake paradox, in which a resource is consumed more as it is used more efficiently. This economist, along with Menger and Walras, contributed to the “marginal revolution.”
Greg Mankiw founded the “Pigou Club” to advocate these policies on gasoline. These policies, which may also be placed on cigarettes, can internalize negative externalities by raising prices.
Biophysical economist Graham Palmer believes that the economy is too dependent on fossil fuels to change as dramatically as the result of this climate science body projects it will. This body says that a decrease in consumption due to decarbonization of 3-11 percentage points is acceptable.
William Stanley Jevons
taxes [accept Pigouvian taxes; or sin taxes]
IPCC [or Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, prompt on “UN”] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
This theorist developed the idea of the “focal point” in his book <em>The Strategy of Conflict</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this Nobel Prize-winning game theorist known for his work on brinkmanship. Both he and Henry Kissinger worked for the RAND Corporation during the Cold War.
Schelling is known for his contributions to the theory of deterrence for these weapons. Herman Kahn applied game theory to analyze a kind of war characterized by the use of these extremely destructive weapons.
Like Schelling, this author of Superforecasting won an NAS award for research into preventing nuclear war. This current University of Pennsylvania professor wrote about hedgehogs and foxes in a book that questions expert political judgement.
Thomas Schelling
thermonuclear weapons [or atomic weapons]
Philip Tetlock &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
One model of this process that was popular in the 1950s came from the so-called Michigan School. For 10 points each:
Name this process. Arrow’s impossibility theorem says that no system of this process can exist that satisfies the three fairness criteria, one of which says that there is no dictator.
This other criterion for Arrow's impossibility theorem states that if a voting system prefers A to B, adding in additional candidates does not change the ranking of A relative to B.
Following the median voter theorem, this model of voting suggests that since voters would choose a candidate that is most similar to their linearly modeled political ideology, candidates would then try to appeal the median voter’s ideology.
voting [accept elections]
independence of irrelevant alternatives [or IIA]
Hoteling model [accept Downs model] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about personality disorders.
People with this disorder have grandiose self-images and tend to ignore the feelings of others unless they are relevant to themselves. Freud said this disorder and loving oneself was related to the self-preservation drive.
This other personality disorder is marked by an impairment in self functioning and an impairment in either empathy or intimacy. People who suffer from this personality disorder tend to be prone to heavy changes in emotions and often exhibit a fear of abandonment.
Along with the amygdala, this region of the brain tends to be smaller in people with BPD. When this part of the brain is damaged, it may result in anterograde amnesia.
Narcissistic Personality Disorder [accept just Narcissism]
Borderline Personality Disorder [accept BPD]
Hippocampus &lt;HB&gt;
This theory posited that the controller of the namesake region would control the world-island.  For 10 points each:
Name this pioneering theory of geopolitics, proposed by Halford Mackinder, which presaged British and American fears that if a powerful Germany or Russia would dominate Europe, then they could conquer the world.
Mackinder was also one of the founders of this British educational institution for the social sciences. Academics at this institution, such as Cannan and Robbins, debated with thinkers at Cambridge during the 1930s.
James Joll taught at the LSE for a period and was notable for his historical work studying this 20th century conflict. Mackinder summarized his idea after this conflict, and a book about it was written by Barbara Tuchman.
Heartland theory [prompt on the geographical pivot of history or similar answers]
London School of Economics
World War I [accept Great War, or the First World War obviously.] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
William Riker said that the existence of strong regional parties can complicate the effects of this law. For 10 points each:
Identify this law which states that two-party systems are favored in plurality-rule elections, such as first past the post.
This paradox states that although voters preferences in candidates are transitive, the overall group’s may be cyclical. Its namesake argued that inconsistent voters should be ignored when devising a voting procedure.
This nation’s First Past the Post system has been criticized for how its Conservative party got over half the seats in 2015 despite getting less than 40 percent of the votes. David Cameron was PM of this nation at the time.
Duverger’s Law
Condorcet’s Paradox
United Kingdom [or Great Britain; or just Britain] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
One study of this phenomenon by John Bargh showed people acted slowly when read words related to elderly people. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which subtle environmental stimuli cause changes to a person’s response to other stimuli. Chapter 4 of Daniel Kahneman’s Thinking Fast and Slow summarizes many studies of this effect, several of which were found to be non-replicable, and Kahneman has since called the study of this effect a “trainwreck.”
Kahneman has shown skepticism towards priming studies because of their sample size. In a 1971 paper, he and this Israeli developer of prospect theory criticized the use of small sample sizes in social psychology research.
Kahneman further conceded that researchers can try to get published by “hacking” the p-value of these kinds of tests. These tests are named after a statement whose null variety can be rejected or not rejected.
priming
Amos Nathan Tversky
hypothesis testing &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
The statutes governing these rights appear in Title 35 of the United States Code, which provide that they last for 20 years from the time of filing, and define requirement of novelty in Section 102. For 10 points each:
Name this form of intellectual property that confers the exclusive right to appropriate an invention, provided the applicant can show that the invention is not obvious, useful, and new, among other things.
This Court of Appeals, located in the District of Columbia, was created in 1982 to replace the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals as the appellate court that holds sole jurisdiction over patent law, excluding the Supreme Court.
This 2014 Supreme Court decision caused numerous patents to be invalidated by holding that taking an abstract idea and implementing it by computer does not make an invention patent-eligible, absent an inventive concept.
patents
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
Alice Corp. v. CLS Bank International [accept either party]
This work posits the “re-potting hypothesis” as a possible cause of the title phenomenon, and this work notes that there has been a decline in “social capital.” For 10 points each:
Name this text that notes that, though there have been more Americans engaging in the title activity, there has been a decline of doing said activity in social groups.
Bowling Alone partially blames the title phenomenon on the increased use of this technology. This technology falls under McLuhan’s category of “cool media” and was criticized in Neil Postman’s Amusing Ourselves to Death.
This thinker discusses how advancements in technology and artificial intelligence can degrade organic social interactions in Alone Together. She also explores the boundary between humanity and AI in Life on the Screen.
Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of the American Community
television [or TV]
Sherry Turkle
This model uses a security market line to model the relationship between beta and the expected rate of return. For 10 points each:
Name this model used to determine theoretical rates of return. This model was partially based off of Harry Markowitz’s work on modern portfolio theory.
The beta parameter in the CAPM represents one form of this quantity. This quantity represents the probability of a loss from an investment.
This economist won a Nobel Prize along with Markowitz and Lintner for his work on finance. He was one of the creators of the CAPM and created a namesake ratio that measures average excess return per unit of risk.
capital asset pricing model [accept CAPM]
financial risk
William Sharpe
This anthropologist used the phrase “everyday communism” to describe interactions in which people in society help each other without expecting anything in return.
Name this British anthropologist who called the title phenomenon the “oldest form of trade” in his book Debt: The First 5000 Years. He is credited with coining the term “we are the 99 percent.”
This anthropological text devotes several chapter to debt and social obligation, including one titled “Repaying One-Tenthousandth.” This book distinguishes between shame and guilt cultures and was written by Ruth Benedict.
David Graeber got his PhD under the supervision of this anthropologist who used the term “original affluent society” to describe hunter-gatherers.
David Graeber
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword
Marshall Sahlins
One model of this activity was based off of Ricardo’s theory of comparative advantage and describes how a capital-abundant country and a labor-abundant country will lower bids accordingly. For 10 points each:
Name this activity that may be modeled using the Heckscher-Ohlin model. The “new” theory of this activity models increasing returns to scale.
This economist noted that the United States exported labor-intensive goods and imported capital-intensive goods even though it was capital-abundant. That challenge to the H-O model is known as his namesake paradox.
This other model of trade calculates trade flows between two countries with an equation that multiplies the masses or GDPs of two economies and divides that product by the distance, all multiplied by a constant G.
international trade
Wassily Leontief
gravity model of international trade
This economist despised fractional reserve banking and supported abolishing central banks, as can be seen in his book The Mystery of Banking. For 10 points each:
Name this self-described “anarcho-capitalist” economist who wrote a book that often has its final eight chapters published separately as Power and Market because of their radical ideas.
This other economist outlined his vision of laissez-faire capitalism in the book Human Action, which introduces his concept of praxeology, the study of purposeful human behaviors.
von Mises and Rothbard were members of this economic school of thought that attributed business cycles to banks issuing credit. Friedrich Hayek was another member of this school.
Murray Rothbard
Ludwig von Mises
Austrian School
One psychologist with this surname developed a namesake sex-role inventory that measures masculinity and femininity, and also introduced gender schema theory. For 10 points each:
Give this surname also shared by a man who defended the ganzfield experiment, which tested an individual’s level of ESP.
Daryl Bem developed self-perception theory partly to explain this phenomenon in which people experience discomfort when they hold two conflicting ideas. This phenomenon was introduced by Leon Festinger.
Leon Festinger used cognitive dissonance to explain the findings in this work, in which he investigated a UFO cult that believed the world was going to end but had to deal with the fact that it actually didn’t.
Bem [accept Sandra Bem or Daryl Bem]
cognitive dissonance
When Prophecy Fails
One text from this field, which is titled for eight conflicts that “make us who we are,” introduces a cyclical model that consists of the 4 I’s: ideas, individuals, institutions, and ideas. For 10 points each:
Identify this subfield of psychology that analyzes the namesake systems, which can be divided into “individualistic” and “collectivistic” types.
This pioneering figure in cultural psychology developed the aforementioned 4 I’s culture cycle. She was the wife of Robert Zajonc and discovered that biracial people had lower self-esteem when they were not allowed to identify with more than one race on surveys.
Cultural psychologists also study these phenomena, judgments resulting from misuse of the representativeness heuristic. Their namesake threat was studied in an experiment by Steele and Aronson that demonstrated how these phenomena could undermine performance on tests.
cultural psychology [accept word forms]
Hazel Markus
stereotypes [accept stereotype threat]
In a book about the decline of these entities, Robert Moses’ “rationalist” approach to these entities is critiqued. For 10 points each:
Name these entities, which Jane Jacobs wrote about in a book about the “Death and Life of Great American” versions of these entities.
In this essay, Georg Simmel wrote that modern big cities can hamper individuals’ intellects, which are needed to overcome the “blasé” of urban life.
This other thinker pioneered the idea of the “right to the city” and argued for the importance of understanding the production of the social space in works like The Survival of Capitalism and The Production of Space.
cities
“The Metropolis and Mental Life”
Henri Lefebvre
In Bertrand’s model of this situation, firms set prices, while in Cournot’s model of this situation, firms set the quantity sold. For 10 points each:
Name this economic situation in which a market is dominated by a small number of firms.
In Bertrand’s model, two identical firms will set their price equal to this value if they optimize their strategy. This is the value of the price in perfect competition.
This value is a measure of the number of firms in relation to the amount of competition between then. It is calculated by summing the squares of each firm’s market share.
oligopoly [accept duopoly]
marginal cost [accept MC]
Herfindahl-Hirschmann index [accept HHI]
In this landmark psychological experiment, subjects were shown a card with a line on it, after which they were shown a card with three different lines. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment conducted at Swarthmore College that planted confederates who would intentionally choose an incorrect answer to test whether the subject would resist or yield to the group.
Solomon Asch’s study of conformity was inspired in part by the results of a Muzafer Sherif experiment that made use of this effect, in which light in a dark setting appears to move despite being stationary.
The results of the Asch conformity experiment can be explained with this phenomenon, a kind of influence that causes us to change our behavior to be better liked. This type of influence is contrasted with an “informational” counterpart.
Asch conformity experiment [accept either underlined part]
autokinetic effect
normative social influence [prompt on “social influence”]
This work describes its author’s concept of “survivals,” which are vestiges of old beliefs or customs that remain a part of society despite the process of evolution. For 10 points each:
Name this work of anthropology that describes how animism gives way to religious evolution in the second of its two volumes.
This anthropologist, who is not Edward Tylor, developed a concept of cultural evolution. This anthropologist defined a unit called an “ethna” in a book that describes the relationship between the household and the family. He also established a link between social development and technology.
Morgan’s Ancient Society influenced this man’s work The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State. He was also one of the co-authors of The Communist Manifesto.
Primitive Culture
Lewis Henry Morgan
Friedrich Engels
A “covert” variant of this operation is sometimes posited at LF for Mandarin Chinese, which leaves its question words in their base-generated positions. For 10 points each:
When it occurs in the root clause, this phenomenon results in English sentences that begin with words like “what” or “where,” and this operation cannot take place out of extraction islands. It is named for the class of words that it applies to.
Wh-movement appears to take place in these clauses, like “what you’re selling” in the sentence “I’ll buy what you’re selling,” but Bresnan and Grimshaw argued in 1978 that a different operation was required. They contrast with a similar “bound” clause type.
A-bar movement is an example of this kind of operation that is fundamental to the Chomskyan tradition of generative syntax. These operations produce a surface structure from a deep structure.
Wh-movement
free relative clauses
transformations
It is hypothesized that there is a “critical period” during the first years of life when this activity can occur most rapidly. For 10 points each:
Name this process that Noam Chomsky theorized was aided by a “universal grammar.”
To support his theory of a universal grammar, Chomsky developed this argument, which states that children couldn’t possibly learn natural language grammar through mere exposure to language alone.
This psychologist argued that learning a language requires interaction with a linguistically knowledgeable adult. In addition to pioneering that social interactionist theory, this psychologist developed the notion of “scaffolding” using Vygotsky’s ideas.
language acquisition [accept equivalents, like learning a language]
poverty of the stimulus
Jerome Bruner
This man wrote a 1980 article with Sanford Grossman entitled "On the Impossibility of Informationally Efficient Markets."
Name this economist, who showed in that article that a competitive equilibrium in an asset market could not exist with costly-but-accurate information since the price would convey information and therefore make paying for it sub-optimal.
That article is a critique of this concept, which at the time held that asset prices always reflect all available information. Subsequent refinements of this concept have made it either false or tautological.
An entirely different critique of EMH from complexity theory was proposed by Philip Maymin, who showed that markets are efficient if and only if [this statement]. Since this statement is probably not correct, markets are probably not efficient because they cannot be an algorithm capable of solving a sufficiently complex problem.
Joseph Stiglitz
Efficient Markets Hypothesis (or EMH; accept "strong" or "weak" if anyone adds that because the clue is intentionally ambiguous between the two.)
P=NP (prompt on partial answer)
California pursued this policy with the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, which led to a ballooning of its prison population.
Name this policy of moving people out of mental asylums and into theoretically less coercive environments.
This proponent of deinstitutionalization argued what was often treated as insanity was actually a logical response to contradictory messages from family and society at large in books like The Divided Self.
Laing focused on this mental disorder he claimed was not biological but caused by the "double-bind" placed upon patients. Risperidone is used to treat this disorder, whose sufferers may experience hallucinations and feelings of persecution.
deinstitutionalization [accept word forms]
Ronald David Laing
schizophrenia
This man first proposed the concept of a "natural rate of interest" that would equalize saving and investment at full employment.
Name this economist, whose work on the linkage between the real and financial sector presaged Keynesian macroeconomics.
Wicksell was an influential figure from this school of economics, which also included the namesakes of the Heckscher-Ohlin model and Mancur Olson, who published a 1937 books that is by turns admiring of Keynes and resentful of the lack of attention to this school's earlier influential research.
Stockholm School economist Erik Lindahl proposed a way to pay for these goods that requires knowledge of individuals' marginal benefits. The Groves-Clark mechanism provides a way for funding them that is strategy-proof but not Pareto optimal.
Knut Wicksell
Stockholm School of Economics [or Swedish School of Economics]
public goods [do not accept "common goods"]
This man credited Thomas Hobbes and Robert Boyle with creating the modernist outlook that separates society and nature in We Have Never Been Modern.
Name this man, whose first major field work was conducted with Steve Woolgar at the Salk Institute.
Latour and Woolgar observed this process happening at the Salk Institute. A 1987 Latour work about it "in action" stresses the social aspect over more abstract criteria like falsifiability.
Another sociologist of science, Robert Merton, wrote a very weird book about this five-word phrase. R.W. Southern uses this phrase to describe the conception medieval cathedral schools had about their relationship with antiquity.
Bruno Latour
science
"on the shoulders of giants"
He believed that criminality manifests itself in physical characteristics, which are genetically reproduced, a concept known as "criminal atavism."
Name this founder of the Italian School of positivist criminology, whose point of view contrasts with the classical conception of his predecessor Cesare Beccaria.
Many of the characteristics Lombroso believed to be criminal could be detected by measuring this part of the body. Determining personality from studying this part of the body is called "phrenology."
This French criminologist used anthropometric methods to classify criminals, keeping namesake data cards recording various measurements, so criminals could always be positively identified. The incompetent handwriting analysis he provided as an expert witness was partially responsible for the conviction of Alfred Dreyfus.
Cesare Lombroso
skull [be generous and accept "cranium"; prompt on "head"; do NOT accept or prompt on "brain"]
Alphonse Bertillon
Samuel Preston showed this variable for newborns increases concavely with income.
Name this value, which for a given age is the average total years of life.
This economist claimed increased life expectancy and other physiological changes were due entirely to public health factors in The Escape from Hunger and Premature Death, 1700-2100. He more controversially argued slavery was efficient and profitable in Time on the Cross, co-authored with Stanley Engerman.
This two-word concept refers to the multi-stage process by which life expectancy increases with economic and social development, giving rise to lower birth and mortality rates. Investment in public health and the adoption of contraception are both components of this concept.
life expectancy
Robert (William) Fogel
demographic transition
This NYU professor developed the "social intuitionist" model of moral reasoning, propounded in his article "The Emotional Dog and His Rational Tail."
Name this man, who argues that moral judgments are based on intuition, with rational ethical positions adopted post-hoc. He is the author of The Righteous Mind.
Haidt was criticized by this leading New Atheist and author of The End of Faith for observing the higher satisfaction and generosity of religious people, which Haidt intends as a retort to this man's argument that the Bible and Koran are immoral for advocating doing harm.
Haidt cites this Harvard myrmecologist and founder of sociobiology as a critic of rational morality. This man proposed the idea of the "Evolutionary Epic," science's response to the human need for a larger narrative previously filled by religious epics.
Jonathan (David) Haidt ["Height" is the correct pronunciation, but be generous]
(Samuel B.) "Sam" Harris
E(dward) O(sborne) Wilson
Richard Steckel used currently-measurable data on this variable to argue that American slave children were subjected to a nutritionally deprived diet that produced persistent cognitive deficits. 
Name this variable, which is a plausible explanation for the positive relationship a different study found between getting wounded in the Civil War and post-war earnings. This variable could be a cause of both
This right-wing economics blogger and inequality apologist thought he was effectively lampooning the theory of optimal taxation when he facetiously argued for a tax on height since it correlates strongly with income but is essentially inelastic as well as difficult to fraud.
This pioneering statistician published a point estimate of 0.57 for the effect of parents' height realizations on their children in the paper that coined the term "regression."
height [accept equivalents: "stature," etc.]
N(icholas) Gregory Mankiw
Francis Galton
Subjects in this experiment have a book of matches and a box of thumbtacks and are asked to fix another object to the wall. 
Name this Karl Duncker experiment used to test for functional fixedness. The trick is to dump the tacks out of the box, tack the box to the wall, and hold the title object in that.
This general principle says that out of all possible perceptual interpretations, people tend to perceive things as ordered and continuous.
Karl Duncker worked with Wolfgang Kohler and Max Wertheimer, founders of this school of psychology that emphasized pragnanz. Thinkers in this school believed people perceived the world as a complete whole that was different than the sum of its parts.
candle experiment
 pragnanz
Gestalt
Simon Baron-Cohen claimed that people with this condition lacked a "theory of mind" based on his 1985 study.
Name this neurological condition. The "broken mirrors" hypothesis posits people develop it when mirror neurons fail before or during infancy.
Baron-Cohen used this experiment to test for a theory of mind, in which one of the namesake dolls places a marble in a basket and the other moves it to a box when the first isn't looking. Most autistic children said the first doll would look for the marble in the box rather than the basket.
One proposed cause for the rise in the prevalence of autism-spectrum disorders is an increase in the efficiency of this process in the marriage market, because spouses who are outliers in their genetic endowment for mathematical reasoning are more likely to marry one another.
 autism
Sally-Anne test
assortative matching or mating [accept word forms]
Among Inuit peoples, these figures are known as angakkuit and are often called upon to defeat tupilaqs created through malevolent witchcraft.
Name these figures who enter trances or ingest entheogens in order to undergo mental journeys through alternate realms and solve problems affecting their communities. They are very common in circumpolar cultures.
South American shamans often sing during these events, which in Vodoun are presided over by Erzulie Mapiangue. During these events, one participant is welcomed with honey in the Hindu Jatakarma ceremony.
In this Oglala Sioux ritual, a shaman breaks out of the ropes binding him after leading healing prayers to Wakan Tanka in a sweat lodge. This ritual also entails a pledge remaining awake in the "vision pit" on a hill for one day.
shamans [prompt on "medicine men" or "medicine women" or "witch doctors"]
childbirths [accept word forms; accept labor; accept parturition; accept child delivery; accept midwifery; antiprompt on "C-section" or "Caesarean section"; prompt on "healing" "curing" or "medicine" or related answers]
Yuwipi [prompt on "night sings" or "sings"]
The anthropologist Ruth Behar's first book concerns the peasantry in a village in this European country, where a "web of use rights" survived the formal disentailment that caused recurrent civil strife during the 19th century.
Name this country, where Julian Pitt-Rivers did fieldwork for The People of the Sierra.
Pitt-Rivers argued that this Spanish pastime linked a well-defined, millenia-spanning Mediterranean culture dating back at least to ancient Crete.
Julian Pitt-Rivers was the great-grandson of the founder of the Pitt-Rivers Museum in Oxford, which contains an exhibit of these controversial objects. These objects, all of which come from Jivaroan tribes in the western Amazon, were supposed to force a beaten enemy's spirit into service.
Spain
bullfighting
shrunken heads
This man used Greenlander Norse and Easter Islanders as examples of societies whose collapse was brought on by ecological destruction.
Name this author of Collapse who also claimed ecology and geography were the primary factors for the success of Europe compared to the Americas in Guns, Germs, and Steel.
Diamond's emphasis on geography was criticized in Why Nations Fail, a book by this man and James Robinson. This man argued political institutions established while a country was a colony were largely responsible for current development in "Colonial Origins of Comparative Development."
To overcome omitted variable bias, Acemoglu used European settler mortality as this type of variable. This variable is correlated only with the independent variable and is the regressor in the first stage of twostage least-squares regression.
Jared (Mason) Diamond
(Kamer) Daron Acemoglu
instrumental variables (or IVs)
This method was developed after a psychologist noticed the high correlation in test scores for apparently unrelated topics among schoolchildren.
Name this method of statistical analysis in which covariance between surface attributes is assumed to be driven by a smaller number of internal attributes.
Charles Spearman explained the testing correlation with the "g factor," which is a general measure of this quality. Tests created to measure this include the WAIS and Stanford-Binet.
Raymond Cattell used factor analysis to identify these two components of general intelligence. One accounts for the ability to recognize patterns in new situations and the other describes the ability to use previously learned facts.
factor analysis
intelligence
fluid and crystallized intelligence
You are a Marxist. Explain some doctrines that you believe in,
You model society according to a metaphor in which a society's means of production form its "base". Built on that base are all ideological and cultural relations, which form this concept.
You believe that there is is a subsection of the working class, including criminals, which will never achieve class consciousness; you call them by this term. However, your friend has been reading Fanon's The Wretched of the Earth and believes that securing this group's help is the key to decolonization.
You believe that because different people's relations of production are at different stages, individuals do not have synchronous experiences of the "Now". That concept of "non-simultaneity" was developed by this German Marxist author of The Principle of Hope.
superstructure [or Ã¼berbau]
lumpenproletariat [prompt on "proletariat"]
Ernst Bloch
This writer claimed that Johann George Hamman was the first to understand human cognition as a linguistic rather than purely rationalist process in his Three Critics of the Enlightenment.
Name this historian of ideas who divided thinkers into those whose worldviews are defined by a single idea and those whose worldviews aren't in his The Hedgehog and the Fox.
This founder of the "Cambridge School" of historiography and author of The Foundations of Modern Political Thought built on Berlin's concept of "negative liberty" in attempting to define the "neo-Roman" concept of liberty, as understood by Renaissance and Reformation thinkers such as Machiavelli.
This historian of ideas criticized contemporary America's approach to intellectualism in his The House of Intellect. He chronicled the history of Western culture from 1500 to the present in his From Dawn to Decadence.
Isaiah Berlin
Quentin (Robert Duthie) Skinner
Jacques (Martin) Barzun
This man argued that Japanese economic success was due to a belief functionally equivalent to the Protestant work ethic in Tokugawa Religion.
Name this sociologist who also wrote about the importance of "civil religion" in American social movements such as the revolution and Civil Rights movement.
Bellah was a student of this sociologist, whose "AGIL system" describes the four functions he claimed a society must fulfill to remain stable. This functionalist introduced his action theory in The Structure of Social Action.
In Habits of the Heart, Bellah and Richard Madsen coined this word to describe the individualized and private religion that has replaced more public and community-based ones. Its name comes from a woman who described her faith as "just my own little voice."
Robert (Neelly) Bellah
Talcott Parsons
Sheilaism
Diamond and Dybvig model these events as liquidity crises arising from stochastic timing of the desire to consume.
Charles Kindleberger and others argued for a lender of last resort to stave off these events, where depositors worried about a bank's solvency withdraw their deposits even if they don't need the money themselves.
One of the earliest proponents of a lender of last resort was this author of Lombard Street: A Description of the Money Market. He was the editor of The Economist for most of the 1860s and 70s.
One critique of the Diamond and Dybvig model is that it suffers from this indeterminacy, since it has no way of predicting whether a run will or won't actually happen. Roger Myerson has argued that this situation is characteristic of the world, rather than a modeling flaw, and Schelling's concept of a "focal point" is one way around this situation.
bank run
Walter Bagehot
multiple equilibria [accept equivalents, including specifically "two equilibria"]
Diamond and Dybvig model these events as liquidity crises arising from stochastic timing of the desire to consume.
Charles Kindleberger and others argued for a lender of last resort to stave off these events, where depositors worried about a bank's solvency withdraw their deposits even if they don't need the money themselves.
One of the earliest proponents of a lender of last resort was this author of Lombard Street: A Description of the Money Market. He was the editor of The Economist for most of the 1860s and 70s.
One critique of the Diamond and Dybvig model is that it suffers from this indeterminacy, since it has no way of predicting whether a run will or won't actually happen. Roger Myerson has argued that this situation is characteristic of the world, rather than a modeling flaw, and Schelling's concept of a "focal point" is one way around this situation.
bank run
Walter Bagehot
multiple equilibria [accept equivalents, including specifically "two equilibria"]
The formal definition of this concept in frequentist statistics is that the expectation of an estimator is not equal to the population moment.
What is this statistical concept, which may arise when a sample is not drawn randomly from the population?
This type of bias arises because the data are generated by agents who make decisions. For instance, the observed wage distribution does not include the "latent" wages of those outside the labor force, so the data is not a random sample.
Selection bias is a major issue in estimates of this data object, the parameter of interest in most applications of the "Mincer equation." This data object can potentially be compared to the market interest rate to test for over- or- under-investment in human capital.
 bias [accept word forms and more specific answers: "sampling bias," for example]
selection bias
"rate of return to schooling" or "rate of return to education"
 The title figure of this book calls a rose a "convoluted red form with a linear green attachment."
Name this collection of case studies of neurological malfunction. The title essay is about "Dr. P," a music teacher suffering from visual agnosia.
The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat was written by this neurologist. This herring enthusiast wrote about the effects of music on the brain in Musicophilia and most recently about his experience with mind-altering drugs in Hallucinations.
The title of Sacks' An Anthropologist on Mars comes from a phrase coined by this woman, an autistic animal science professor at Colorado State University whose work on livestock care is touchingly empathetic.
The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat
Oliver (Wolf) Sacks
Temple Grandin
This observation was used to justify the import substitution industrialization, or ISI, promoted by many Latin American countries after World War II.
Name this observation made by two economists in 1950 that the terms of trade for raw commodities deteriorates over time, putting developing countries at a structural disadvantage in international trade.
Singer-Prebisch thesis
Comparative advantage does not explain why similar countries trade similar goods, which is why trade models in the Krugman tradition assume this property holds. A Cobb-Douglas function displaying this property will have exponents sum to more than one.
Singer-Prebisch thesis
comparative advantage
increasing returns to scale
Nature's Metropolis tells the history of the relationship between this city and the environment of the American West.
Name this city, whose urban structure was studied by Robert Park and which was the site of of settlement halls like Hull House.
Nature's Metropolis was written by this environmental historian. In 2011 the Wisconsin Republican Party filed a freedom of information request for this UW-Madison professor's emails after he criticized Scott Walker's anti-labor policies on his blog.
Cronon criticized this theory as static and deterministic. This theory was proposed by the German geographer Walter Christaller and holds that cities will be situated in a hexagonal pattern to minimize transport costs for raw materials.
Chicago, Illinois
William Cronon
Central Place Theory
He posited the existence of covert semantic concepts that do not appear on the morphological surface of language, but which nonetheless shape our understanding, concepts he called "cryptotypes."
Name this linguist, whose ideas laid the foundation for the field of metalinguistics. With Sapir, he conames a hypothesis of linguistic relativity, which states that language affects how we conceptualize the world.
In Roman Jakobson's six functions of communication, this word describes the metalinguistic use of language. In Saussurian semiotics, this word denotes the set of conventions that allows signs to acquire meaning. 
Whorf also invented this phonological term for different sounds that are treated as variants of one phoneme. For example, in English, the letter "p" is more aspirated in "pin" than in "spin", but we treat them as the same phoneme.
Benjamin Lee Whorf
codes
allophones [accept word forms such as "allophonic"
This psychologist's tests on French schoolchildren led him to develop a measurement that related "mental age" to chronological age. For 10 points each:
This psychologist's tests on French schoolchildren led him to develop a measurement that related "mental age" to chronological age. For 10 points each:
Along with his student John Horn, this psychologist explored the distinction between crystallized and fluid intelligence. He also used factor analysis to identify sixteen distinct personality traits.
This nonverbal intelligence test is designed to be "culture-fair," and requires people to complete a series of visual patterns. The British military used it to test recruits during World War II, causing it to spread to more than one hundred other militaries throughout the world.
Alfred Binet 
Raymond Cattell
Raven's Progressive Matrices [or RPM]
This book claims that the title concepts numb people into a state of "Narcissus narcosis." For 10 points each:
Name this 1964 book, which argues that new technology becomes "extensions of man." It divides the title concepts into "cool" and "hot" types, which respectively require more involvement and less involvement by their users.
Understanding Media was written by this Canadian communications theorist, who coined the aphorism "the medium is the message."
This one-time editor of the Partisan Review wrote a scathing review calling Understanding Media "impure nonsense." He lambasted mass culture in his essays Masscult and Midcult, and demolished James Cozzens's literary reputation in his essay "By Cozzens Possessed."
Understanding Media 
Marshall McLuhan
Dwight Macdonald 
In the work in which it appears, this concept is exemplified by a film that provides the spectator with a "standardized echo of himself to which he hearkens." For 10 points each:
Identify this concept, described in a chapter of the same name, which causes every detail to be "so firmly stamped with sameness that nothing can appear which is not marked at birth, or does not meet with approval at first sight."
The term "culture industry" was coined in this seminal 1947 work co-written by Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer.
In an essay collected together with eight others in a collection titled The Culture Industry, Adorno argues that this theorist foresaw the rise and character of fascist propaganda, as well as anticipating "the fascist leader's... resemblance to ham actors and asocial psychopaths."
the culture industry
Dialectic of Enlightenment: Philosophical Fragments
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud]
This situation occurs when no player would change their decision after taking into account the decisions of other players. For 10 points each.
Name this type of solution to non-cooperative games named for an American mathematician.
For games that do not have pure strategy Nash equilibria, players may need to use this type of strategy, in which players assign probabilities to pure strategies and randomly choose one. For instance, players with two options would choose option A x percent of the time and option B one minus x percent of the time.
Backward induction is used to solve for this type of equilibrium, which does not suffer from the existence of noncredible threats. It consists of the strategies that constitute a Nash equilibrium for each subset of an extensive form game
Nash equilibrium [or Nash equilibria]
mixed strategies
subgame perfect Nash equilibrium
Friedrich Engels used this book's arguments as the basis for his treatise The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State. For 10 points each:
Name this book by Lewis Henry Morgan, which argues that cultures progress through the states of savagery and barbarism before arriving at civilization.
Morgan performed a tremendous amount of field research about the customs of this Native American tribe, whose "Great Law of Peace" may have influenced parts of the US constitution.
Morgan's evolutionary theories were adopted by this man, who encouraged American anthropological research as the founder of the Smithsonian's Bureau of Ethnology. In 1881, he became the director of the United States Geological Survey.
Ancient Society
Iroquois [or Haudenosaunee]
John Wesley Powell
A language is regular if an only if there exists one of these entities that accepts it. For 10 points each:
Name this class of theoretical machine that is less capable than the pushdown automata.
A finite-state automaton has this property if it has a transition function such that the next state can certainly be found from the current state. Automata without this property are said to have transition relations rather than transition functions.
For a given deterministic finite automaton, this task can be accomplished by Hopcroft's or Moore's algorithms. This goal can be accomplished by finding a nondeterministic finite automaton equivalent to the reverse of a given DFA, then constructing the NFA's power set, then reversing that.
finite-state automata [or finite-state machines]
deterministic [accept word forms like determinism]
minimization [accept equivalents like finding the DFA with the smallest number of states for a given language]
The Morris water maze and radial arm maze test this type of memory in rats. For 10 points each:
Name this type of memory, which is often tested in tandem with visual memory. It is accessed in order to form a cognitive map.
This part of the limbic system plays an important role in storing spatial memories. It is located beneath the cerebral cortex, and is critical for the formation of new memories.
Karl Lashley wrote an article about his inability to find a single location of these physical traces of memories in the brain. He theorized that they are caused by physical or biological changes in neurons after a specific experience.
spatial memory 
hippocampus 
engrams 
This man was tried and acquitted at the Council of Diospolis, before being soundly condemned at the Council of Carthage. For 10 points each:
 Name this British heretic, who famously denied original sin and incurred the wrath of St. Augustine.
This follower of Pelagius took the Pelagian heresy even further than his teacher. Augustine wrote an entire book condemning this man by name.
Augustine himself was a follower of this Italian bishop, who first convinced Augustine to convert to Christianity.
Pelagius 
Caelestius 
Ambrose of Milan
An academic critique of this phenomenon argues that IMF policies helped contribute to the 1997 Asian financial crisis and drew on the author's experience as chief economist at the World Bank. For 10 points each:
Name this process, defined by Roland Robertson as "the compression of the world" and criticized in a book by Joseph Stiglitz about its "discontents."
This sociologist lamented the globalization of places devoid of distinctive and substantive content in his book The Globalization of Nothing. He argued that the world is becoming increasingly rationalized like modern fast-food restaurants, an idea he termed "McDonaldization."
This contemporary sociologist analyzed the ways in which New York, London, and Tokyo became crucial nodes in the global economy in her classic study on The Global City, a term she coined.
globalization
George Ritzer
Saskia Sassen
Hart Blanton and Philip Tetlock have published prominent critiques of this psychological test. For 10 points each:
Name this test developed by Greenwald and Banaji, which asks people to quickly pair words of different categories together. It often shows that people prefer white faces.
Anthony Greenwald was a lab assistant to Elliot Aronson, who is best known for his research on this feeling of discomfort when a person holds two or more conflicting ideas at once.
The IAT measures the strength of implicit associations using this variable, which is popular in cognitive psychology studies. It is also measured in Sternberg's memory scanning and mental rotation tasks
Implicit Association Test [or the IAT]
cognitive dissonance
reaction time [accept obvious equivalents like how long it takes you to react to something]
For 10 points each, answer the following about George Homans.
Homans wrote an "introduction" to the theories of this man, who named a "circle" at Harvard that Homans joined. A system in which no one can become better off without making someone else worse off is his namesake optimality.
Homans pioneered this sociological theory, which describes social change or stability by way of negotiated bargaining between parties.
Homans's protÃ©gÃ©, Peter Blau, burst onto the sociological scene with a 1956 work titled for this type of organization in modern society. Another theorist argued that this type of organization is trapping society in an "iron cage of rationality" and a "polar night of icy darkness."
Vilfredo Federico Damaso Pareto [or Wilfried Fritz Pareto]
social exchange theory
bureaucracy [or Bureaucracy in modern Society]
Answer the following about sociolinguistics, for 10 points each.
This phenomenon occurs when multilingual speakers use multiple languages in one context, without compromising the syntax or phonology of each language.
This American sociolinguist and author of Principles of Linguistic Change asked clerks in New York City department stores to say "fourth floor" in one study. He founded variationalist sociolinguistics.
In Class, Code, and Control, this British sociolinguist developed the theory of language codes, which he divided into elaborated and restricted types.  
code-switching 
William Labov 
Basil Bernstein
Part of the ideas that make up this thinker's theories includes the belief that the most mature of human beings have acquired "self-objectification," ideas he explored in his analysis of the letters of Jenny Masterson. For 10 points each:
Identify this psychologist who argued that one's own behavior was dependent on cardinal and central traits, but could be reflected in what he termed secondary traits.  
Although Gordon Allport's trait theory has been applied to leadership, it was originally developed to explain this psychological concept that may also be assessed by the Thematic Apperception Test and the MMPI.
Worry about morale during World War 2 led Allport to co-author a book about this phenomenon with Leo Postman. It was later written about in sociologist Tamotsu Shibutani's book Improvised News.
Gordon Allport
personality
rumors [or gossip]
This book distinguishes between three types of legitimate domination, and its first section, "Basic Sociological Terms," delineates four kinds of social action. For 10 points each:
Name this unfinished sociological treatise, which was edited by its author's wife Marianne and published posthumously in 1922.
Economy and Society is the magnum opus of this German sociologist, who linked Calvinism with economic success in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
This sociologist translated many works by Max Weber into English, including the first four chapters of Economy and Society. He analyzed social interaction using five "pattern variables," including affectivity and affective neutrality.
Economy and Society [or Wirtschaft and Gesellschaft]
Max Weber 
Talcott Parsons 
Kenneth Arrow analyzed the effect of this condition in the health insurance market in his paper "Uncertainty and the Welfare Economics of Medical Care." For 10 points each
Name this condition, in which gaps in knowledge influence the dynamics of transactions. George Akerlof illustrated it using used cars in his essay "The Market for Lemons."
This technique, in which people voluntarily convey information about themselves, can help circumvent information asymmetry. For example, people in the job market do this by obtaining degrees from prestigious universities.
This economist shared the Nobel with Akerlof and Joseph Stieglitz for his work on information asymmetry, signaling, and their effects on education and human capital, most notably in his paper "Job Market Signaling."
information asymmetry [or asymmetric information]
: signaling
A. Michael Spence
This sociologist wrote a study about Agnes, who tricked him into believing that she was "intersexed" instead of transgendered. For 10 points each:
Name this American sociologist, a symbolic interactionist who pioneered ethnomethodology and attempted to discover unspoken rules of social interaction by performing breaching experiments..
Garfinkel's ethnomethodology helped inspire this theory developed by Michel Callon and Bruno Latour. It holds that scientific progress emerges through systems which connect humans and non-humans alike.
Ethnomethodology was also inspired by this Canadian sociologist, who analyzed micro-level social interactions in books such as Behavior in Public Places and The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life.
Harold Garfinkel
actor-network theory [or ANT]
: Erving Goffman
For 10 points each, name these thinkers who wrote about cities.
This French Marxist argued that all residents of urban areas should be able to participate in city life in his book The Right to the City. He also wrote The Production of Space and inspired the New Left with his massive tome The Critique of Everyday Life.
This thinker advocated mixed-use urban neighborhoods such as Greenwich Village and lambasted urban planners like Robert Moses in her classic The Death and Life of Great American Cities.
This one-time member of the Merry Pranksters wrote about the evolution of buildings over time in his book How Buildings Learn. He also published the Whole Earth Catalog and allegedly coined the phrase "information wants to be free."
Henri Lefebvre
Jane Jacobs 
Stewart Brand 
For many years, this country's economic policy has been based on the so-called "Polder Model." For 10 points each:
Name this European country, whose discovery of natural gas deposits in 1959 led to currency appreciation that crippled its manufacturing industry. That situation is known as its namesake "disease."
Dutch disease often leads to a decline in this quantity, often measured as the percent increase in a country's GDP over time. Solow and Swan developed the neoclassical model of it.
This American economist argued that countries begin with traditional economies, which then industrialize, "take off," and reach mass consumption, in his five-stage model of economic growth.
the Netherlands [or Holland]
economic growth
Walt Whitman Rostow
For 10 points each, identify these cognitive biases.
Melvin Lerner proposed this bias, which holds that people get the rewards or punishments that they deserve. It's often used to explain why people blame the victims of crimes like rape.
In this type of selection bias, people tend to seek information that agrees with their existing opinions and ignore contrary information.
Kahneman, Knesch, and Thaler measured this bias in an experiment which randomly assigned Cornell undergraduates as buyers or sellers of coffee mugs. It causes people who own an object to place more value on it than others would.
just-world hypothesis [or belief in a just world; or just-world bias; or just-world fallacy]
confirmation bias
endowment bias [or endowment effect]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the anthropology of South America.
While searching for the lost city of Vilcabamba, Hiram Bingham discovered this Inca site, whose ruins include the Temple of the Sun. Many scholars now believe it served as a retreat for Pachacuti
Jacques Lizot's ethnography emphasized the erotic life of this Amazon River culture, in contrast to Napoleon Chagnon, who wrote a book calling them the "fierce people."
This Columbia anthropologist wrote about "acts of terror" in rubber plantations on the Putamayo River in his book  Shamanism, Colonialism, and the Wild Man. He used the Cuna people as the basis of his 1993 book Mimesis and Alterity.
Machu Picchu
Yanomamo [or Yanomami]
Michael Taussig 
Paul Niebanck found that the rate of disrepair on units subject to this practice was three and a half times as for those without it. For 10 points each:
Identify this form of a price ceiling, most famously implemented in New York since 1943, which many economists allege causes artificial shortages in housing.
This economist co‐wrote a 1946 paper against rent control with Milton Friedman. This formulator of regulatory capture theory also wrote "The Economics of Information."
Rent control in California became popular in the 1980s when promised savings to tenants from this referendum did not materialize. This Howard Jarvis‐pushed referendum capped property tax rates at one percent and is often blamed for California's subsequent budget crises.
rent control
George Stigler
Propostion 13
This collection of sixty‐two essays was based on its author's time with the Kwakiutl and includes long decriptions of that group's art and mythology. For 10 points each:
Name this 1940 book which also discusses the pros and cons of the "comparative method" and aims to prove that its three title phenomena are independent of each other.
This author of Race, Language, and Culture taught people such as Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict at Columbia.
In addition to racism, one of Boas's bugaboos throughout his life was this anthropologist, who published books such as The Ancient Maya after researching Mexico for the Carnegie Institution. He also spied for the U.S. government during World War I, which Boas found objectionable.
Race, Language, and Culture
Franz Boas
Sylvanus Griswold Morley
This book lamented the decline in visible signs of the university's Calvinist roots and focused much space on "indoctrination" with Keynsian theories. For 10 points each:
For 10 points, name this 1951 book, subtitled The Superstitions of Academic Freedom, which denounced the author's Ivy League alma mater as a haven of liberalism.
God and Man at Yale was written during the senior year of this conservative host of Firing Line. His next book, McCarthy and His Enemies, was co‐written with his brother‐in‐law and frequent collaborator, Brent Bozell.
In 1955, Buckley founded this magazine, the leading organ of intellectual conservatism in the U.S. It is sometimes said to be responsible for Barry Goldwater's nomination and the emergence of conservatism as a "movement," and Buckley defined its mission as "standing athwart history, yelling 'stop!'"
God and Man at Yale
William F. Buckley, Jr.
National Review
This language, rather than Persian, was the lingua franca of the Achaemenid Empire. For 10 points each:
Name this language, which survives today as Palmyrene and Syriac, and is often called the language spoken by Jesus.
A form of Aramaic without guttural consonants is used today as the liturgical tongue of this religious community, which venerates John the Baptist and follows the Ginza Rabba. There are about seventy thousand of these people, who live in Iraq and Iran near the Shatt al‐Arab.
Biblical passages in Aramaic are traditionally pronounced using this system for Hebrew, which is the only one that effectively survives in the modern world. In ancient times, the Babylonian and Palestinian systems of vocalization competed with it.
Aramaic
Mandeans
Tiberian vocalization
In addition to the constraints of coordinate structure and the sentential subject conditions, this event is prevented in higher order CPs by islands created when this event has already happened to the specifier of an embedded CP. For 10 points each:
Identify this event, which in English is also accompanied by a T-to-C movement to fill the null [+Q] complementizer role.
Wh-movement occurs in sentences of this type, and its name comes from the prevalence of the letters "wh" at the beginning of words common to these sentences, like "why" and "when".
As with other movements, Wh-raising is argued to leave these phonologically null grammatical occupiers in the syntactic structure. The prevention of wanna-contraction in certain questions is cited as evidence for them.
Wh-Movement [or Wh-Raising or Wh-Fronting]
questions [or interrogative Sentences]
traces [or gaps]
International relations is often divided into different schools of thought. For 10 points each:
This school of thought, founded by Hans Morgenthau, posits that states are self-interested and exist in an anarchic international system. Its "neo-" form is championed today by John Mearsheimer.
This school of thought places value in international institutions and globalization to achieve peace and mutual gains. The Democratic Peace Thesis is sometimes considered a tenet of this school, which some might say is led by Robert Keohane.
Liberalist scholars often look favorably to the goals outlined in this 1795 Immanuel Kant essay. It includes articles about the destruction of standing armies and the need of republican constitutions to achieve the title condition.
Realism
Liberalism [I guess take neoliberalism even though that usually is just code for "capitalists" or "Jews" and doesn't have much to do with IR at all, because at one time it was in fact used interchangeably with the IR theory of liberalism]
"Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Sketch"
Early in this essay, the author argues that intellectualism is a "protective organ" that develops in response to the fluctuations and discontinuities of the title locations. For 10 points each:
Name this sociological essay that argues that the intensification of stimuli in the title location results in the decline of emotional life and the development of a "blasé outlook."
"The Metropolis and Mental Life" was written by this German sociologist, author of The Philosophy of Money.
Simmel was one of the co-founders of the German Sociological Association along with Ferdinand Tönnies and this author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
"The Metropolis and Mental Life" [or Die GroÃŸstadt und die Geistesleben]
Georg Simmel
Max Weber
Although this animal was able to grasp a limited vocabulary, it never exhibited grammar. For 10 points each:
Identify this whimsically named chimpanzee, who was the subject of a study by Columbia's Herbert Terrace on animal language acquisition.
Project Nim sought to test the validity of Noam Chomsky's formulation of this linguistic approach. A key feature of this approach is the innateness of language to human brain structure, excluding other animals but providing a biological basis for the similarity of all languages.
Terrace attempted to teach Nim this language. According to different accounts, Nim learned anywhere from 25 to 125 words in this non-oral language, which Koko the gorilla is also alleged to comprehend.
Nim Chimpsky
transformational-generative grammar
ASL [or American Sign Language; prompt on sign language, I guess]
In an 1897 case study, he concluded that Protestants were more likely to kill themselves than Catholics. For 10 points each:
Name this influential French sociologist who attributed that disparity to a weaker social structure in Protestant nations in Suicide.
This 1895 work by Durkheim presented his view of the nature of sociology, focusing heavily on the concept of the "social fact".
Durkheim believes that repressive as opposed to restitutive law, religion, and low interdependence characterized this type of social organization, typical of smaller socieities.
Emile Durkheim
The Rules of the Sociological Method [or Les Règles de la Méthode Sociologique]
mechanical solidarity
According to this man, conformity, innovation, ritualism, retreatism, and rebellion are the five modes of adaptation. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose "middle range theory" uses empirical phenomena to generate verifiable general sociological statements and differs from narrow empiricism.
Merton used this term to describe the "unintended and unrecognized consequences" of something. He contrasted these with "manifest functions."
Merton also coined this term for an adult figure that children may pattern behavior after.
Robert K. Merton [do not accept "Robert C. Merton"]
latent functions
"role model"
This analogy was used to explain why investors will buy securities based on their demand rather on their value. For 10 points each:
Name this analogy used in Book 12 of a certain economic tract. It hypothesizes a namesake competition in which the winners are the people who picked the most popular option.
The Keynesian beauty contest was described in this seminal work of economics, which was also the first to describe the consumption function.
At equilibrium the aggregate demand is equal to output; this relationship is shown by this curve, usually named for Keynes.
Keynesian beauty contest
The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money
Keynesian cross
Ernest Renan argued that "forgetting, and I would say even historical error, are essential in the creation" of these entities in an essay that tries to define them. For 10 points each:
Name these entities, which are sometimes defined as groups of people sharing the same language. Unlike states, they are not necessarily bound under the same political system.
This man defined nations as "imagined political communities" in his 1983 work Imagined Communities. He argued the new print-capitalism of the Renaissance created the means for people to feel connected to the nation.
This man distinguished nationalism from patriotism in his essay "Notes on Nationalism." He wrote on the prospects of socialism in England and what it would mean for defeating the Nazis in another essay, "The Lion and the Unicorn."
nations 
Benedict Anderson
George Orwell [or Eric Blair]
This psychologist used the "lost in the mall" story to demonstrate the ease of manipulating memory. For 10 points each:
Name this pioneer in debunking "recovered memories," who often testifies as to the unreliability of eyewitness testimony and is regularly accosted by crazy people.
Loftus testified at the McMartin preschool trial in California, perhaps the most ridiculous instance of this 1980s panic which believed that America was riddled with pedophilic cults. Comedian Mike Warnke and the book Michelle Remembers helped drive this urban legend.
Loftus coined the name for this psychological effect, in which people who experienced an event firsthand later integrate news accounts and other descriptions of the event into their own memory.
Elizabeth Loftus 
Satanic ritual abuse [prompt on partial answer]
misinformation effect 
With Joshua Waletzky, this man pioneered narrative analysis, and he created a conceptualization of a speech community as "participation in shared norms." For 10 points each:
Name this sociolinguist, most famous for studying the influence of social stratification on language use in New York City.
Labov argued that this English dialect is not substandard. Notable features of this dialect include copula dropping and the habitual "be," and it likely originated from a mixture of creoles and Southern regional speech.
Labov has also studied chain shifts in these sounds, which include the "Northern Cities" one. These sounds are the nucleus of syllables and are pronounced with an open vocal tract.
William Labov 
African American Vernacular 
vowels
It predicts that the nominal interest rate is approximately equal to the real interest rate plus inflation. For 10 points each:
Name this equation
Fisher and his theories fell out of popularity after the 1929 stock crash due to his public, vocal optimism concerning the market until this Australian economist utilized aspects of Fisher's debt deflation in predicting the 2008 recession.
Irving Fisher was an advocate of this general practice, which was upheld in the United States in caswes such as Buck v. Bell. It rapidly declined in popularity in the U.S. following Skinner v. Oklahoma and revelations about the extent of the Nazi use of this practice to eliminate undesirable races.
Fisher equation
Steve Keen
eugenics 
Greg Mankiw and Matthew Weinzierl proposed taxation based on this property, based on the fact that is a strong, albeit imperfect predictor of income. For 10 points each:
Those economists wrote about "utilitarian income redistribution" in a paper proposing taxation on what quantitative characteristic, which is notably depressed among North Koreans?
The notion of optimal taxation based on tagging was introduced by George Akerlof, who also wrote about information asymmetry in a paper about the market for what product?
The optimal linear tax formula includes a term for this quantity in the denominator, which affects the efficiency cost of taxation. This quantity measures how sensitive people's desire for work is to the level of income tax.
height 
lemons [or used cars or defective cars]
elasticity of labor supply 
This thinker attempted to establish sociology as a science by writing The Rules of Sociological Method. For 10 points each:
Name this French sociologist, who argued that the breakdown of social norms, or "anomie," was one of the four main causes of suicide.
Durkheim believed that sociology should mainly study these phenomena, which he divided into "material" and "nonmaterial" kinds. They consist of the external cultural norms and social structures which constrain an individual's behavior.
This American sociologist explained the theories of Durkheim and others in his Masters of Sociological Thought. He cofounded the journal Dissent, and attempted to bring conflict theory and functionalism together in his book The Functions of Social Conflict.
David Emile Durkheim
social facts [or fait social]
Lewis Coser
Answer the following about psychological experimentation in the United States, for 10 points each.
In the so-called "Monster Study" performed at the University of Iowa, Wendell Johnson attempted to induce this condition in orphans by giving them harsh negative therapy.
From 1932 to 1972, the United States Public Health Service controversially injected poor black men in this Alabama city with syphilis in order to study its effects. It inspired the government to require researchers to obtain the informed consent of their subjects.
] In 1898, this University of Indiana psychologist performed the first social psychology experiment, in which he discovered that bicyclists pedal faster in the presence of another person than by themselves.
stuttering [accept things like speech defects]
Tuskegee 
Norman Triplett 
For 10 points each, name these theorists who discussed television:
This American cultural theorist collaborated with Charles Weingartner to write Teaching as a Subversive Activity. He outlined the information-action ratio and showed that television cheapens and flattens political discourse in his book Amusing Ourselves to Death. 
This man distinguished between Hot and Cool media, putting television in the latter category and film into the former, in his Understanding Media. 
The two-step flow of media communication was advanced by Paul Lazarsfeld and this other sociologist, who worked with Daniel Dayan to compile a series of broadcasts of world-changing events in his Media Events.
Neil Postman
Herbert Marshall McLuhan
Elihu Katz 
Hicks and Leontief's contributions resulted in a theorem suggesting that this problem can be overcome for commodities if they behave similarly in a twice-differentiable utility function. For 10 points each:
Identify this problem which arises when translating microeconomic observations of individual agents to macro observations for an entire economy.
The aggregation of this factor of production was the subject of the "Cambridge controversy." This factor of production refers to goods which may be used in production, are not consumed themselves, and undergo depreciation.
An influential contributor to the Cambridge capital debates was this female economist, who dismissed the notion that capital can be aggregated. This critic of the Neo-Keynesian movement also wrote The Accumulation of Capital.
aggregation problem
capital
Joan Violet Robinson
Daniel Miller portrayed this concept as critical to self-definition in a 2012 book about it "and its consequences." For 10 points each:
Name this concept, whose "shadows" are discussed in a book by Peter Dauvergne. Sidney Mintz analyzed its patterns in 19th century England in his book Sweetness and Power.
Consumption and Its Consequences argues that the global demand for this product is emblematic of the lust for individuality through personalized wear-and-tear. This type of clothing is notorious for its barter value in economies with cheap currencies, and helps conceal surface class distinctions because of its ubiquity in the Western world
Miller incorporates this author's narrative of global financial markets' rewarding mindboggling risk, as portrayed in this author's The Big Short. This author wrote about the rise of sabermetrics in Moneyball.
consumption [or equivalents such as consuming things]
blue jeans 
Michael Lewis 
Arnold Toynbee's A Study of History praises this term's accuracy in describing tribal relationships while simultaneously anticipating the rise of nationalism. For 10 points each:
Identify this term its author used to model the social cohesion experienced by nomadic cultures like the Berbers and Mongols
This Tunisian scholar traced the tribalism encompassed by Asabiyyah in his Muqaddimah, a preface to a six-volume universal history
Ibn Khaldun's work helped inspire the formulation of this quantity, which describes the maximum number of stable social relationships an individual can maintain and is linked with neocortex size. Its eponymous British formulator set it at one hundred and fifty after researching primates.
asabiyyah
Ibn Khaldun [or Abu Zayd 'abdur-Rahman bin Muhammad bin Khaldun al-Hadrami]
Dunbar's number 
The financial accelerator model suggests that problems in the real economy occur due to increased frictions in credit channels. For 10 points each:
Important contributions to the financial accelerator model were made by this American economist, a frequent collaborator with Mark Gertler and the current chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Bernanke and Gertler pioneered the use of this approach from contract theory in the analysis of credit markets. This approach was developed by Robert Townsend, and suggests that the namesake inefficiencies arise because the entrepreneur has better information about a business than the investor.
In his 2010 speech to the AEA, Bernanke critiqued this economist's eponymous rule for inflation rate targeting, which states that the federal funds interest rate should be a function of inflation and the output gap.
Ben Shalom Bernanke
costly state verification [or auditing costs; or agency costs]
John Taylor 
With James Robinson, this man wrote Why Nations Fail, and he co-authored a paper with Simon Johnson that explored the relationship between disease prevalence on economic growth. For 10 points each:
Identify this rock star of developmental economics, who is probably best known as the author of "Colonial Origins of Comparative Development."
This other economist shared the 2011 Nobel Prize with Pissarides and Mortensen for their development search frictions in the labor market. He was unsuccessfully nominated to the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors by President Obama.
Both Acemoglu and Diamond teach at MIT, which also employed this economist who worked with Wolfgang Stolper on a theorem relating relative prices of goods under Hecksher-Ohlin conditions. This "father of modern economics" wrote the popular textbook Economics: An Introductory Analysis.
Kamer Daron Acemoglu
Peter Arthur Diamond 
Paul Anthony Samuelson
For 10 points each, name these types of therapy.
Therapists help clients fight against negative thoughts in order to change their actions in this type of therapy, in which clients are usually assigned homework. It is commonly used to treat anxiety.
Albert Ellis devised this type of therapy, which holds that people are unhappy because of their irrational beliefs, and tries to help people change irrational beliefs into rational ones. It refers to the most common irrational beliefs as "the three basic musts."
Michael White developed this therapy, in which a patient tells a story to the therapist, who deconstructs it using an "externalizing conversation" to separate the patient from his or her problem.
cognitive-behavioral therapy [or CBT; prompt on cognitive therapy]
rational-emotive behavior therapy [or REBT]
narrative therapy 
For 10 points each, name these concepts from feminist theory.
 Feminists believe that women are oppressed by this kind of society, which is ruled and dominated by men.
This concept describes how multiple identities of a person's life interact. Kimberle Crenshaw coined this term to analyze how black women are oppressed by their race and their gender.
Gayatri Spivak advocated that minority groups use the "strategic" form of this concept, although she rejected it otherwise. It asserts that there are innate fixed differences that define categories like gender or race.
patriarchy [accept word forms]
intersectionality [accept word forms]
essentialism [accept word forms]
Answer the following about economies of scale, for 10 points each.
Economies of scale increase this function, which plots the relationship between inputs such as capital and labor and the total output allowed by existing technology.
This British economist distinguished between internal and external economies of scale. He introduced the conceÂ¬pt of elasticity and emphasized supply and demand in his 1890 book Principles of Economics.
This economist developed a theory in which international trade is driven by economies of scale and consumer preference for diversity. He also wrote a 1979 papeÂ¬r on currency crises arguing that a fixed exchange rate regime makes currencies vulnerable to a speculativeÂ¬ attack.
production function
Alfred Marshall
Paul Krugman
This paper agrees with Kant that it is impossible to argue freedom away and among the principles it advances are the Principle of Causal Interaction and the Principle of the Nomological Character of Causality. For 10 points each:
Identify this paper most famous for advancing the position that no strict psychophysical laws exist, which its author called "anomalous monism."
The paper "Mental Events" was written by this American philosopher, who invented the Swampman thought experiment and advanced a coherence theory of truth in his "A Coherence Theory of Truth and Knowledge."
Davidson's work on language led him to advocate this position, which involves trying to understand a speaker by identifying correlations between attitudes towards sentences and events in the environment. As part of this idea, Davidson advocated the "Principle of Charity" which assumes that the speaker is mostly right and rational.
Mental Events
Donald Davidson
radical interpretation
Examples of this kind of sound include pf in German and and the most common pronunciations of ch and j in English. For 10 points each:
Name this sound that starts as a stop and releases as a fricative.
This doubly-eponymous American Indian language family is rich in affricate. It includes the Athabascan languages and Tlingit. Most members of this family are found in Alaska or Canada.
 The Na-Dene language with the most speakers is this one, spoken in the American southwest. Speakers of this language were famously used as "code-talkers" during World War II, because the Japanese could not understand this language. 
affricate
Na-Dene
Navajo
For 10 points each, name these American thinkers who wrote about advertising.
This sociologist argued that advertising helped transform America from a "community of publics" to a "mass society" in his study of the links between economic, military, and political leaders, The Power Elite.
This social critic analyzed the psychological techniques used by advertisers in The Hidden Persuaders. His other books include The Waste Makers and The Status Seekers.
 This nephew of Sigmund Freud believed that public opinion had to be guided to prevent society from succumbing to the irrationality of the "herd instinct." This "father of public relations" hired models to light cigarettes, which he called "torches of freedom," in his successful campaign encouraging women to start smoking.
C Wright Mills 
Vance Packard 
Edward Bernays 
This thinker's concept of the "spiral curriculum" inspired the curriculum Man: A Course of Study. For 10 points each:
Name this constructivist thinker who highlighted the importance of "readiness for learning" in his landmark book The Process of Education.
Bruner mentored Howard Gardner, who argued that people have multiple types of this ability. David Weschler and Alfred Binet developed tests to measure it.  
This psychologist wrote the Culture Fair Intelligence Test to minimize cultural biases in IQ testing. He distinguished between crystallized and fluid intelligence, and identified sixteen distinct factors of personality.
Jerome Bruner
intelligences [prompt on IQ]
Raymond Cattell
For 10 points each, answer the following about the study of marriage in anthropology.
This British anthropologist defined marriage as a "bundle of rights" in his 1961 paper "Rethinking Anthropology." A student of Malinowski, he attacked the theories of Radcliffe-Brown in his seminal work Political Systems of Highland Burma.
Claude Levi-Strauss proposed alliance theory to explain how the incest taboo causes societies to apply this common marriage rule.
This anthropologist defined ritual sexual unions as "sacred marriages" in his "study in magic and religion," The Golden Bough.
Edmund Leach
exogamy 
James Frazer 
This book argues that America has declined from a religious culture to a "therapeutic sensibility." For 10 points each:
Name this 1979 book by Christopher Lasch, which is subtitled "American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations." It claims that postwar America is dominated by a new personality type which constantly seeks external validation
Lasch borrowed the term "narcissism" from this earlier thinker, who theorized that men develop an Oedipus complex and founded psychoanalysis.
People with narcissistic personality disorder often exhibit this kind of reasoning, the belief that your ideas or actions can influence the outcome of an event beyond logical cause and effect. For instance, a person with the superstition that his favorite sports team will win if he wears one of their shirts exhibits this kind of belief.
The Culture of Narcissism: American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations
Sigmund Freud
magical thinking
This feature is absent in the e in "pet" and present in the initial sound of "eat." For 10 points each:
Name this feature of vowels, sometimes abbreviated +str, which contrasts with laxness.
Another way to contrast vowels is this feature. In Latin, this feature is marked by the presence or absence of a macron, while in Hunarian it is marked by the presence of absence of an accent mark.
In addition to long and short vowels, this extinct Indo-European language had "super-short" vowels that were lost in its descendants. This language was first written in the Glagolitic alphabet.
vowel tenseness
vowel length [or shortness]
Old Church Slavonic [or Old Church Slavic; or OCS]
Along with a colleague, this man wrote the so-called "Bible of Sociology," Introduction to the Science of Sociology. For 10 points each:
Name this pioneering urban sociologist who collaborated with Robert Park. He created the "concentric zone" model of cities that placed suburban zones on the fringes of a central business 
Burgess was a faculty member at this university's sociology department. A group of Chilean economists who studied under Milton Friedman were colloquially known as this university's "boys."
This more recent urban sociologist wrote about urban poverty in such books as When Work Disappears and The Truly Disadvantaged. He claimed that class is more important than race in determining one's life chances in The Declining Significance of Race.
Burgess was a faculty member at this university's sociology department. A group of Chilean economists who studied under Milton Friedman were colloquially known as this university's "boys."
University of Chicago
William Julius Wilson
Prominent members of this language family include Burmese. For 10 points each:
Name this language family, which has the second most speakers after Indo-European, and whose other languages include Hui and Yue.
The most prominent Sino-Tibetan language is Mandarin, which like many Sino-Tibetan tongues is this kind of language, where pitch and inflection alter the meaning of words.
In more ancient times, people in Burma spoke the Mon language, which is not Sino-Tibetan, but instead belongs to this family whose other members include Vietnamese and Khmer, the language of Cambodia. Curiously, this family also dominates the Nicobar Islands.
Sino-Tibetan [do not accept "Sinetic" or "Chinese," as Burmese is no such thing]
tonal language
Austro-Asiatic family
Sometimes, Americans write history books. Answer some questions about that for 10 points each:
This man wrote a memoir-esque history of the Kennedy administration called A Thousand Days before criticizing Nixon in The Imperial Presidency.
Chapters of this ubiquitous survey text include "The Intimately Oppressed," about white women before the Civil War, and "Self-Help in Hard Times," about deportations of Communists. It begins from the perspective of Arawaks spotting Columbus's ship and was written by Howard Zinn.
This ex-Marxist historian of the South examined that region's Agrarian literary movement in The Southern Tradition. He posited that Africans from temperate zones had trouble adjusting to the rigid "clock time" of slavery in his Roll, Jordan, Roll: The World the Slaves Made.
Arthur Meier Schlesinger, Jr.
A People's History of the United States
Eugene D. Genovese
This concept is illustrated by a situation in which two people meeting in New York City without knowing the exact time or place show up at Grand Central Station. For 10 points each:
Name this type of solution that people tend to choose in the absence of communication, which was proposed in The Strategy of Conflict.
This Nobel Prize-winning American economist introduced focal points in The Strategy of Conflict and analyzed weapons policy in Arms and Influence.
In The Strategy of Conflict, Schelling analyzed uncertainty in military relations in a chapter entitled "The Manipulation of" this concept. This idea is often defined in economics in terms of uncertainty in investments.
focal points [or Schelling points]
Thomas Schelling
risk
This tort was at issue in the 15th century "Thorns Case." For 10 points each:
Name this historically strict liability tort that occurs when a person enters the property of another without permission.
A trespasser can become a rightful owner of property through this process, which normally involves him treating the property as his own and occupying it for a significant amount of time
A trespass claim will only stand when land is invaded by a corporeal object. This tort may be used instead when a person's right of quiet enjoyment is invaded by foul smells or loud noises.
trespass to land 
adverse possession
nuisance 
In his theory of motivation, this psychologist proposed that drives could become functionally autonomous from their original motives. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist, who analyzed intergroup discrimination in The Nature of Prejudice, and devised a hierarchy of cardinal, central, and secondary traits.
Gordon Allport's analysis of traits pioneered the psychological study of this entity, which can be assessed with the Myers-Briggs Test.
Lewis Goldberg proposed this model of personality, whose factors include openness, agreeableness, and neuroticism. It is sometimes referred to by the acronym OCEAN.
Gordon Willard Allport 
personality
Big Five model [or Five Factor Model; or FFM]
In the Stag Hunt, this situation occurs when both players hunt for the stag or both players hunt for the hare. For 10 points each:
Name this situation from game theory in which no player can gain more utility from changing his strategy when the other players' strategies are unchanged.
The Nash equilibrium in this model occurs when each firm sets its price equal to the marginal cost. It assumes that there is no cooperation between firms, unlike a similar model, it sets price, not output level.
One way to find the Nash equilibrium of a game is to use the iterated elimination of this type of strategy. The weak type of this strategy occurs when one action yields a lower utility than all of its alternatives, regardless of the opponent's action.
Nash equilibrium
Bertrand game/competition/model
dominated [accept word forms]
In Hebrew, this noun form is created by the suffix Â–ayim, and the presence of this noun form is one feature that distinguishes Sami from Finnish. For 10 points each:
Name this grammatical noun number, which falls between singular and plural and describes things that come in pairs.
One of the few Indo-European languages that still has a dual is this Slavic language, spoken by the namesake ethnic minority in Germany.
The dual number is also found in this large language family, which includes the Tagalog language spoken in the Phillipines as well as most languages spoken in Polynesia.
dual number 
Sorbian
Austronesian langauges 
McGill Professor Lydia White wrote a book about this concept's application to second language acquisition. For 10 points each:
Name this theory defended by Noam Chomsky who analyzed the assumptions children made during the language acquisition process as evidence for innate principles shared by all languages
Chomsky outlined this argument for universal grammar theory in Rules and Representations, which holds there is not enough positive evidence for children to learn grammar solely from that experience.
Paul Smolensky and Alan Prince proposed this theory that views grammars as a ranking of constraints, which it maps with a system of inputs and outputs.
universal grammar 
poverty of stimulus 
Optimality Theory [or OT]
Answer the following about the properties of a decentralized competitive equilibrium for 10 points each:
The strong form of this hypothesis holds that equilibrium prices embody all information available to market participants at any given time. Its weak form holds that no opportunities for riskless arbitrage exist in equilibrium, and that therefore the expected forecast error for future values of a time series is zero given the present information.
According to a 1980 article by Grossman and this economist, the efficient markets hypothesis fails if information acquisition is costly and agents are heterogeneous in their degree of risk aversion. He explained unemployment with a model of efficiency wages he developed along with Shapiro.
This economist's PhD thesis put forth the major assumptions behind the Efficient Markets Hypothesis. He identified shortcomings in the Capital Asset Pricing Model in a three-factor model he developed along with Kenneth French.
Efficient Markets Hypothesis
ANSWER: Joseph Stiglitz
Eugene Fama
Give the following economic situations for 10 points each.
When a vendor is able to accurately predict the demand for a product in the vendor's market, the vender cancaptured all of the consumer surplus by doing this, maximizing their profits.
In this economic game, a two-player version of three card poker named for a game theorist who solved the assignment problem, the first player has many optimal strategies, but the second player has only one, which always puts him in the advantage.
These kind of status goods, which are classically represented with a diamond tipped cane, paradoxically see their demand rise with their price.
First-degree price discrimination (prompt on partial answer)
Kuhn Poker
Veblen Good
This sociologist incorporated his studies of the Kabyles into Outline of a Theory of Practice. For 10 points each:
Name this subject of the documentary Sociology as a Martial Art, who developed the ideas of symbolic capital and cultural capital, and defined the cognitive schemes a person uses to interpret the world as a habitus. 
Bourdieu developed this term for a social space with its own rules and systems of domination, such as art, religion, and science. He argued that people use cultural and symbolic capital to compete for positions within them.  
Bourdieu's analysis of the way differences in taste are used to bolster social status echo the writings of this American economist, who argued that individuals display their status through pecuniary emulation and conspicuous waste.
Pierre Bourdieu
fields
Thorstein Veblen
This anthropologist published a conversation with James Baldwin as A Rap on Race. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist who attacked racism in Race, Language, and Culture and The Patterns of Culture.
This psychologist devised a scale of prejudice which goes from antilocution at one to extermination at five. A founder of trait theory, he suggested that infantile drives evolve into distinct motives, which have "functional autonomy."
This other anthropologist came to prominence by writing UNESCO's "Statement on Race." He argued against the notion of women as the weaker sex in The Natural Superiority of Women.
Ruth Benedict 
Gordon Willard Allport 
Ashley Montagu
This curve was based on the study of 153 Belgian families, and it is most commonly used to show that as a household's budget increases, a smaller proportion of it is spent on food. For 10 points each:
Name this curve which shows how the size of a household's budget impacts its spending on a good or service.
This American thinker was also interested in the results of increased household income. He described the conspicuous consumption and pecuniary emulation of wealthy families in The Theory of the Leisure Class.
Veblen wrote a review of this French thinker's Reflections on the Formation and Distribution of Wealth. This French economist served as an early minister to Louis XVI, but fell from grace when his attempt to abolish the corvÃ©e failed.
Engel curve 
Thorstein Bunde Veblen
Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, baron de l'Aulne 
In West African folklore, this term referred to giant animals which stole girls from villages at the behest of witches. For 10 points each:
Name this term which in the Caribbean signifies a brand of folk witchcraft that often involves burying an object to harm its owner.
The Caribbean practice of Obeah is thought to have begun with the Igbo tribe in this modern day country. Its other major ethnic groups include the Yoruba and the Hausa.
The Fon tribe in Benin influenced the Caribbean worship of this trickster figure, who sits at crossroads and serves as an intermediary between humans and Loa in Haitian Voudou.
Obeah
Nigeria
Papa Legba
Because this effect is usually demonstrated in a dark room, the usual reference points that would correct for it cannot be seen. For 10 points each:
Name this effect in which eye fatigue causes the perceived movement of a point of light on a wall.
Muzafer Sherif used the autokinetic effect to test this phenomenon in three subjects. Solomon Asch used planted confederates to convince subjects that short lines were longer than long ones in an experiment that tested this concept.
Sherif worked on social judgment theory with this psychologist. With Weiss, he discovered the "sleeper effect" in an experiment in which subjects forgot whether information came from Fortune magazine or Pravda. He wrote Experiments on Mass Communication after studying World War II propaganda.
autokinetic effect
conformity
Carl Iver Hovland
Ernest Burgess modeled these entities socially with his concentric zone model, which depicts the Central Business District as a circle in the middle. For 10 points each:
Name these entities whose "edge" type was theorized by Joel Garreau.
 This American thinker wrote about technology in The Myth of the Machine and about the development of cities in The City in History.
This first volume in Mumford's "Renewal of Life" series divides the history of technological innovation into three stages based on the method of energy production and the usage of organic materials.
cities
Lewis Mumford
Technics and Civilization
In The Political Language of Islam, Bernard Lewis cites an instance when this concept was invoked against Africans to permit their sale as slaves. For 10 points each:
Name this duty of "struggle" in Islam, which can be fulfilled by the heart, the tongue, the hand, and the sword.
This political scientist discussed Islamic struggle in its global context in Jihad vs. McWorld. He claimed that democracy will be torn apart by expanding global market forces in the book Consumed.
Bernard Lewis also coined this term, which Samuel Huntington used to title his book about how conflict between individual states and ideologies was being replaced by conflict between whole societies
Jihad 
Benjamin Barber 
The Clash of Civilizations 
Derek Freeman alleged that this woman was lied to in a book about her "fateful hoaxing." For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist who described the loose sexual mores of the title society in Coming of Age in Samoa.
Many beginning anthropology students have been hoaxed by this Horace Miner essay, which satirically analyzes a North American tribe whose members revere Notgnihsaw and go to a latipso when ill.
This NYU physics professor prompted a bitter debate about postmodernism, science, and peer review when he submitted a gibberish filled article to the journal Social Text in 1996.
Margaret Mead 
Body Ritual Among the Nacirema 
Alan Sokal
Children tested on Easter Sunday are more likely to see this illustration as one animal, while those tested on a Sunday in October are more likely to see it as another. For 10 points each:
Name this illustration which can be seen as two animals and which was introduced to academic study by psychologist Joseph Jastrow.
The duckrabbit is also examined in Philosophical Investigations, a book by this Austrian philosopher who wrote Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
In a 2009 book, Richard Dawkins dismissed the relevance of this other hybrid animal. This reptile-bird rose to prominence when Kirk Cameron claimed that the lack of a fossil record for it disproved evolution.
duckrabbit [or rabbitduck]
Ludwig Wittgenstein
crocoduck
This university was the site of Ancel Keys's World War II study in which thirty-six conscientious objectors volunteered to undergo starvation to benefit European relief efforts. For 10 points each:
Name this school which was also the site of Carney Landis's experiment in which over two-thirds of his subjects agreed to cut off the heads of live rats.
Although it is chiefly used as an example of obedience today, Landis' experiment was originally intended to study this phenomenon. Singer and Shacter posited a two-factor theory of it.
This economist also briefly worked at Minnesota with his friend George Stigler. He is better known for writing Capitalism and Freedom and Free to Choose as a leader of the Chicago School.
University of Minnesota 
emotions
Milton Friedman
[missing]
Name this psychologist who founded the journal Psychological Research and theorized the concept of "pragnanz."
With Koffka and Kohler, Wertheimer was a founder of this psychological school which emphasized that the whole of most phenomena is greater than the parts.
Wertheimer was looking out the window of a train when he discovered this phenomenon, an optical illusion in which stationary objects presented in rapid succession appear to move.
Max Wertheimer
Gestalt psychology
phi phenomenon
[missing]
This founder of Chicago's Hull House advocated shorter work weeks and other social reforms in Democracy and Social Ethics.
This husband and wife team took the novel approach of applying anthropological methods to a modern western city with their study of Muncie, Indiana titled Middletown.
This Austrian-born sociologist founded the Bureau of Applied Social Research at Columbia, which allowed him to conduct innovative studies of the effects of mass media on society.
Jane Addams
Robert and Helen Lynd
Paul Felix Lazarsfeld
This model is similar to the Cournot model in that it involves two firms, but it differs because the game is sequential instead of simultaneous. For 10 points each:
Name this model in which the leading firm can set quantity and the following firm is forced to conform based on the choices of the first.
The Stackelberg model applies to duopolies, a specific case of this market situation in which a small number of producers dominate the market.
This reworking of the Cournot duopoly model has firms adjusting price instead of quantity produced. Because the firm with the lowest prices wins all of the business, both firms have their price at the marginal cost.
Stackelberg model [or Stackelberg competition]
oligopoly
Bertrand competition model
Common symptoms of this disorder include hallucinations, delusions, and disordered thinking. For 10 points each:
Name this severe mental disorder which has types named residual, disorganized, catatonic, and paranoid.
This American psychologist pioneered attempts to use therapy to overcome schizophrenia. His work with mental conditions informed his study of the way personal relationships affect mental state, which he discussed in The Interpersonal Theory of Psychiatry.
Sullivan coined this two-word term for situations in which interpersonal relationships are derailed when one person has a conception of another based on personal fantasy rather than fact.
schizophrenia 
Henry Stack Sullivan
parataxic distortion
This work tracks contemporary Italian regional governments, and why those in the north tend to be stronger than those in the south.
Name this work which posits that the title concept is better when social capital, in the form of civic engagement in local groups, is higher.
This other work tracks the decline of "bonding" and "bridging" social capital in America, stating that people participate in activities like the titular one more often than they used to, instead of joining groups.
] This sociologist wrote Making Democracy Work and Bowling Alone.
Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy
Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community
: Robert David Putnam
This method can be used to solve such game theoretical problems as the centipede game, where two players alternately get the chance to take the larger portion of a continually increasing size of money. For 10 points each: 
Name this method for computing subgame perfect equilibria in sequential games. It involves reasoning what one would do when making the last decision, then what one would do prior to that step based on that information, and so forth. 
Backwards induction can be used to solve the "rotten kid theorem," which suggests that given proper financial incentives, even selfish children will help other family members. That theorem was devised by this economist, the author of The Economics of Discrimination.
Gary Becker and Casey Mulligan studied this decline in efficiency that takes place due to a tax based on the number of tax dollars a government chooses to raise. Taxes and binding price ceilings or floors commonly cause this phenomenon, which is exemplified by Christmas shopping. 
backwards induction 
Gary Becker 
deadweight loss 
The two groups in this experiment named themselves the Rattlers and the Eagles. For 10 points each: 
Name this experiment which studied the origins of prejudice among two groups of eleven-year-old boys who began insulting and attacking members of the opposite group after directly competing against them in games like tug of war. 
The Robber's Cave Experiment was carried out by this Turkish-American psychologist, who described it in the monograph Intergroup conflict and cooperation. 
In the Robber's Cave experiment, Sherif reduced intergroup prejudice by cooperative tasks he gave this name. They included voting whether to see Treasure Island or Kidnapped and pushing a broken-down truck back to camp. 
Robber's Cave Experiment 
Muzafer Sherif
superordinate goals
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the economics of taxation.
This curve shows that increased taxation does not necessarily increase government revenue; it was used to justify the Kemp-Roth Tax Cut of 1981.
This journalist and author of The Way the World Works coined the term "Laffer Curve" as well as "Supply-side Economics." He argued in support of reducing barriers to trade and returning to the gold standard.
This law, first postulated in 1993 by its namesake San Francisco economist, states that, "No matter what the tax rates have been, in postwar America tax revenues have remained at about 19.5% of GDP."
Laffer Curve
Jude Wanniski
Hauser's Law 
This founder of the Saguaro Seminar promoted civic engagement in Making Democracy Work. For 10 points each:
Name this Harvard professor of public policy whose other works include Democracies in Flux and Better Together.
This Putnam work argues that the modern disconnects of American society cause people to spend more time by themselves and less time accumulating "social capital" by joining groups or leagues.
Claude Fischer criticized Bowling Alone for ignoring opposing data, much like he criticized the vast oversimplifcations of this book by Herrnstein and Murray, which purported to explain hereditary differences in the intelligence of various races.
Robert Putnam
Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community
The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life
Greeks use xematiasma to cure this affliction, while people in Iran and Iraq cure it by burning aspand seeds on charcoal. For 10 points each:
Name this affliction which Muslims ward off by wearing a hamsa, which is caused by a malevolent gaze.
This UC Berkeley professor of anthropology argued that the evil eye is almost always associated with dryness, and its cure with wetness, in his essay "Wet and Dry."
In "Wet and Dry," Dundes argues that many cultures believe that this kind of animal is immune from the evil eye because of its association with water. Since the Talmud states that these animals are unaffected by the evil eye, Sephardic Jews use images of these creatures to ward it off.
evil eye [or clear-knowledge equivalents; there are huge number of foreign names for the evil eye, too many to list here]
Alan Dundes
fish [or clear-knowledge equivalents]
Many analyses of this language's phonology include the nonspecific pseudo-phonemes /Q/ ["capital q"], marking the first half of a geminated consonant, and /N/, representing a syllable-final nasal. For 10 points each:
Name this language which also includes a system of downstep.
Mushamusha, meaning "frustrated" or "irritated", belongs to this class of sound-symbolic Japanese words that describe mental states. 
This syllabary is used in Japanese to write words of foreign origin, while native words use hiragana.
Japanese language or Nihongo
psychomimes or gijoogo or gitaigo [do not accept "onomatopoeia"]
katakana
