In one book, this man recalled visiting a town where he’d taught, only to find that “My log schoolhouse was gone. In its place stood Progress.” For 10 points each:
Name this thinker who, in a 1903 book, posited that oppressed minorities always view themselves “through the eyes” of their oppressors, a state he called “double consciousness.”
Du Bois coined the term “double consciousness” in a book about the Souls of these people. Du Bois said that these people should focus on cultivating the “Talented Tenth,” a notion opposed by Booker T. Washington.
The Souls of Black Folk describes how African-Americans live within this metaphorical construct, which also gives a gift of “second sight.”
W.E.B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois]
African-Americans [accept reasonable equivalents; accept The Souls of Black Folk ]
veil &lt;JW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some questions about the concept of “theory of mind” in psychology:
One of the first experiments related to theory of mind was this man’s “Three Mountains” task, in which children describe what a doll sees. He found that children in his “preoperational” stage were unable to do so.
Theory of mind is often tested in children with this “false belief” task. Success at this task requires realizing that one title character couldn’t know that the other title character moved an object unless they saw it happen.
The Sally–Anne test was created in part by Simon Baron-Cohen, who also theorized that this disorder is caused by a “blindness” in theory of mind. A mild type of this disorder is known as Asperger’s syndrome.
Jean Piaget
Sally–Anne test
autism spectrum disorder [or ASD] &lt;AF&gt;
Much of the work on this language has been done by Daniel Everett. For 10 points each:
Name this Múra language that Everett controversially claims lacks many features found in most languages, including numerals, kinship terms, and embedded clauses.
Everett claims that Pirahã’s unusual features provide evidence for this controversial linguistic hypothesis. According to this hypothesis, the structure of your native language determines your patterns of thought.
Pirahã is spoken in this country. This country was home to most of the speakers of Tupian languages, before colonization turned it into the only New World country with Portuguese as an official language.
Múra-Pirahã [or Pirahán]
Sapir–Whorf hypothesis [or linguistic relativity; accept Whorfianism]
Federative Republic of Brazil [or República Federativa do Brasil] &lt;JW&gt;
Tariffs do not actually increase this quantity in the long-run and instead only raise the real exchange rate. For 10 points each:
Name this component of gross domestic product that quantifies a nation’s monetary balance of trade with other nations in a given period of time. This quantity is negative if a country has a trade deficit.
Another component of GDP, investment, depends on this quantity. Borrowers with high credit scores may receive loans that are low in this quantity, which is the proportion of a loan that is regularly charged to the borrower.
Too much government spending can choke off private investment and raise the interest rate, an effect known by this two-word phrase.
net exports (or NX; accept x minus n; or commercial balance; accept balance of trade before mention; prompt on partial answer)
real interest rate (be generous and accept nominal interest rate; prompt on partial answer)
crowding out (prompt on crowding) &lt;Suh, Economics&gt;
Answer some questions about essays in Susan Sontag’s collection <em>Against Interpretation</em>, for 10 points each:
Identify this concept defined as something that is “good because it’s awful,” discussed by Sontag in her essay titled “Notes on [this concept].” That essay consists of 58 theses about things like “old Flash Gordon comics.”
Along with Marxism, Sontag’s essay “Against Interpretation” deems a school of thinking named for this man “aggressive and impious.” This psychologist discussed manifest and latent content in The Interpretation of Dreams.
“Against Interpretation” ends by asserting that “in place of a hermeneutics we need an erotics of [this general discipline].” The philosophical field of aesthetics studies this general discipline.
camp
Sigmund Freud
art (anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on poetry, music, painting, or other specifications) &lt;Yue, Philosophy&gt;
According to a Canadian thinker, these things can be divided into “hot” and “cool” categories based on how rich they are in sensory data. For 10 points each:
Name these “Extensions of Man” described by Marshall McLuhan in a book titled for Understanding [them]. In that work, he asserted that “[one of these things] is the message.”
McLuhan asserted that this “cool” medium “speaks, and yet says nothing.” In The Gulf War Did Not Take Place, Jean Baudrillard argued that reality could not be distinguished from propagandistic war footage broadcast by CNN through this medium.
This philosopher disagreed with McLuhan’s “ideology about the end of writing,” believing phonetic writing to be “the medium of the great…adventure of the West.” This man wrote Writing and Difference.
the media (or the medium)
television (or TV)
Jacques Derrida &lt;Yue, Sociology&gt;
A Bronisław Malinowski <strong>[“mah-li-NAWF-ski”]</strong> book partly titled for this concept examines it through the lens of maintaining coral gardens. For 10 points each:
Name this concept which preceded religion and science according to The Golden Bough. It is often associated with shamans and witches, and its “black” form is performed by practitioners with selfish intent.
This anthropologist described the “King of the Wood” ceremony in his aforementioned study of magic and religion, The Golden Bough.
This Oxford anthropologist discussed the title central African tribe’s tendency to blame witchcraft and magic for misfortune in his study Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic Among the Azande.
magic (accept Coral Gardens and Their Magic; accept black magic; do NOT accept or prompt on “sorcery” or other perceived equivalents)
James Frazer
E. E. Evans-Pritchard &lt;Yue, Anthropology&gt;
In a famous 1970 George Akerlof paper, this term is contrasted with “peaches” in the context of the used car market. For 10 points each:
Name this slang term meaning a car that is found to have defects only after it has been purchased. A market for this term titles the aforementioned Akerlof paper.
According to Akerlof, some people end up buying “lemons” from used car dealers because they know less about the cars on sale than the shady dealers do, leading to an asymmetry in this concept.
Information asymmetry is a prominent problem in this industry, as providers in this industry cannot perfectly evaluate the risk of every customer in the market. Allstate and State Farm are major players in this industry.
lemons (accept “The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism”)
information (accept asymmetric information)
insurance &lt;Suh, Economics&gt;
This sociologist developed the concept of the social action that was later expanded upon in the work of Talcott Parsons, who translated many of this sociologist’s works. For 10 points each:
Name this sociologist who predicted a “polar night of icy darkness” in an essay that defines the state as having a “monopoly on the legitimate use of force,” Politics as a Vocation.
In Politics as a Vocation, Weber described an “iron cage” brought on by these systems, which transform social action into rationally organized action. These administrative systems have hierarchies and impersonal rules.
This German thinker discussed a related notion to social action in his Theory of Communicative Action. He also wrote The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere.
Max Weber
bureaucracy
Jürgen Habermas &lt;Yue, Philosophy; Finals&gt;
In languages with evidentiality systems, speakers use grammatical markers to indicate what kind of evidence exists for a given statement. Answer some questions about grammatical features that English does not have, for 10 points each:
This language, which is widely spoken in Sri Lanka and a namesake state in southwestern India, uses the suffix am when reporting hearsay.
English uses this word for the first-person plural pronoun. Vietnamese uses either chúng ta or chúng tôi depending on whether the listener is included in the group.
Turkish does not mark this grammatical property even in pronouns, so English’s third-person singular pronouns all translate as “o.” The Spanish words for “the,” el and la, differ in this grammatical property.
Tamil
we (or us)
gender &lt;Murton, Linguistics&gt;
According to Gene Sackett, the controversial experiments conducted by this doctoral adviser of Abraham Maslow were the impetus for the animal liberation movement. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who studied the effects of maternal separation in animals using “surrogate” mothers made from wire and wool.
Harlow changed his last name from Israel while studying at this university under Lewis Terman, the creator of an intelligence scale named for this university and Alfred Binet. Philip Zimbardo conducted a “prison” experiment at this school.
Harlow exclusively used these mammals to conduct his controversial experiments.
Harry Harlow (or Harry Israel)
Stanford University
monkeys (accept rhesus monkeys) &lt;Suh, Psychology&gt;
Psychologists working in this paradigm formulated a series of grouping principles that account for the effects of proximity, similarity, symmetry, and continuity. For 10 points each:
Name this early 20th-century brand of psychology that focused on how perceptions of wholes influence perceptions of parts, and vice versa.
Gestalt studies often employed these images, including the Rubin “vase” that looks like a pair of faces if you perceptually reverse the figure and the ground. These images often “trick” the eye about lengths or colors.
This Polish-American Gestalt psychologist advertised his most famous study as a vision test, when in reality it was actually an experiment in social psychology.
Gestalt psychology
optical illusions [prompt on ambiguous images]
Solomon (Eliot) Asch (The experiment actually studied social conformity.) &lt;BY&gt;
The value of the next best alternative is assessed to measure the “opportunity” type of this value that’s been lost. For 10 points each:
Give this generic term for the value that has to be spent on producing a good or delivering a service. Prices almost always have to be set above this value, or a company will lose money.
Cost-benefit analyses are often couched in terms of this kind of quantity, which measures an incremental change.
For the vast majority of goods, the marginal utility curve almost always has this kind of slope. A description is fine.
(opportunity) costs
marginal
negative [or downward; prompt on diminishing marginal utility] &lt;JR&gt;
In the short run, this process tends to reduce unemployment, since wages are sticky. For 10 points each:
Name this process in which prices rise across the board.
Quantities that have not been adjusted for inflation are described using this adjective. This kind of value is opposed to something’s “real” value.
While inflation is often measured using the Consumer Price Index, the Fed usually monitors inflation using this other consumption-based measure, which is “chain-based” and grows a bit slower.
inflation
nominal
PCEPI [or personal consumption expenditure price index] &lt;JR&gt;
This postcolonialist work states that its title concept is inherently political in that it was a byproduct of the imperialist societies which created it. For 10 points:
Name this landmark 1978 book by Edward Saïd which criticized the West’s prejudiced cultural views of the Middle East as the “other.” It’s considered a major book of postcolonial theory.
Rachel Miller has argued that postcolonial literature heavily emphasizes this concept, which was first discussed in a 1919 psychoanalytic essay. This word describes the eerie effect of things that are familiar but somehow “off.”
“The Uncanny” was written by this cocaine addict who developed the concepts of the id, ego, and superego. This man almost certainly made up much of the “clinical” reporting in his book The Interpretation of Dreams.
Orientalism
uncanny [or “Das Unheimlich”]
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud] &lt;HK&gt;
Many psychological experiments would fail to meet today’s standards of ethics. For 10 points each:
John B. Watson classically conditioned a young boy to associate the beating of a hammer on metal with the presence of this animal, unethically neglecting to rid the boy of his acquired fears.
This series of experiments conducted by Albert Bandura involved conditioning participants to engage in violent behavior after they witnessed the namesake object pop back up every time it was hit or knocked down.
This Swarthmore College psychologist did not receive informed consent in his conformity study in which participants were asked to match the lengths of geometric lines.
white rat
Bobo doll experiment
Solomon Asch &lt;Stecko&gt;
Answer some questions about the language of the Pirahã [pee-duh-HA] people in the Amazon, for 10 points each:
Study of the language of the Pirahãs has caused many to reevaluate the Universal Grammar proposed by this MIT linguist, since it does not contain numbers, past or future tenses, recursion, or other supposedly ubiquitous concepts included in this man’s work Syntactic Structures.
The Pirahã language is believed to have either ten or eleven of these fundamental units of sound that do not convey meaning by themselves. Those consist of three vowels and either seven or eight consonants.
In transcribing the Pirahã language, an “x” is used to denote this phoneme that is produced by abruptly obstructing airflow through the entrance of the vocal folds. In English, this phoneme occurs in the interjection “uh-oh” and can be used in place of a “t” in the words “cat” and “button.”
Noam Chomsky
phonemes
glottal stop [or glottal plosive] &lt;McMaken&gt;
This field was pioneered by John von Neumann. For 10 points each:
Give the name for this field which studies cooperation and conflict between rational decision-makers and which has applications in economics, political science, logic, and biology. A famous problem studied in this field is the Prisoner’s Dilemma.
In the Prisoner’s Dilemma, an equilibrium named for this man occurs when both prisoners choose to defect. This economist and mathematician was depicted in the 2001 film A Beautiful Mind.
This game differs from the Prisoner’s Dilemma in that there are two pure-strategy Nash equilibria. In this social cooperation game first described by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, two individuals must decide whether they want to kill a hare for themselves or wait for the title animal to appear and risk going hungry.
game theory
John Forbes Nash, Jr.
stag hunt [prompt on partial answer] &lt;McMaken&gt;
This concept is defined with the sentence “what a man can be, he must be” in one work. For 10 points each:
Name this concept discussed in “A Theory of Human Motivation” which features efficient perceptions of reality, autonomy, and comfortable acceptance of self. It forms the pinnacle of a “hierarchy of needs.”
This psychologist created that namesake “hierarchy of needs,” expanding his discussion of human needs in his book Motivation and Personality.
A similar autonomy features in this mental state titling several books by Mihály Csîkszentmihályi [“mee-HALL SHEEK-cent-mee-HALL-ee”] which is defined as an energized sense of focus and complete absorption in one’s activities.
self-actualization (accept word forms)
Abraham Maslow
flow &lt;Yue&gt;
These objects are “total prestations” that represent all of society according to one anthropological text. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, the subject of a landmark Marcel Mauss work which compared the prevalence of these objects in societies around the world, exemplified by the Pacific Northwest potlatch.
Gift economies are exemplified by this ceremonial system in Papua New Guinea studied by Bronislaw Malinowski, in which Trobriand Islanders exchange things like necklaces and armshells.
Bronislaw Malinowski mentored Edmund Leach, E. E. Evans-Pritchard and other notable anthropologists from this country while he taught at the London School of Economics.
gifts (accept The Gift)
the kula ring (or kula exchange)
United Kingdom (accept Great Britain or England) &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, answer some questions about research ethics.
Name this physician who conducted gruesome experiments on prisoners in the concentration camp Auschwitz. He was particularly interested in children and twins.
This document sets forth basic ethical principles – respect for persons, beneficence, and justice – to protect human research subjects. It remains an essential reference for conducting ethical research in the United States.
This concept means to “give permission for something to happen,” the informed variety of which requires the research subject to be given all information necessary for them to voluntarily agree to participate in the research.
Josef Mengele
Belmont Report
consent &lt;K. Li&gt;
A theorem concerning this activity applies under assumptions of independence of irrelevant alternatives, non-dictatorship, and universality. For 10 points each:
Identify this individual activity, the subject of an impossibility theorem by Kenneth Arrow proving that there is no consistent way of generating community-wide preferences from individual ones.
The criteria of monotonicity and citizen sovereignty were replaced in a later version of the theorem by an assumption of this condition named for an Italian economist, in which no one can be made better off without making at least one person worse off.
The condition of Pareto optimality in Arrow’s impossibility theorem was removed by economist Amartya Sen, who also notably related this concept to individual freedom in a landmark 1999 book. One metric for this quantity takes into account life expectancy, education, and per capita income.
voting (accept word forms; accept elections I suppose)
Pareto efficiency (or Pareto optimality)
human development (accept economic development; accept Development as Freedom) &lt;Yue&gt;
The most famous work of Edward Tylor is titled for a “primitive” one of these concepts. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that represents the collective set of beliefs and values of a society. Moving to a foreign country across the world may cause a “shock” named after this concept.
This anthropologist defined culture as “personality writ large” in her book Patterns of Culture, but is better known for discussing Japanese shame culture in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
This anthropologist wrote a 1976 book that discussed the materialistic and symbolistic theories of culture. He also posited that the hunter-gatherers were the “original affluent society.”
culture
Ruth Benedict
Marshall Sahlins &lt;Suh&gt;
An attempted replication of an experiment involving these objects in 2018 failed to support the behavioral conclusions of that experiment, but affirmed the correlation with achievement tests. For 10 points each:
Name these objects which were placed in front of children at the Bing Nursery school to test the age that control of delayed gratification develops in an experiment by Walter Mischel.
Mischel’s marshmallow test was conducted at this university, the site of a Philip Zimbardo experiment involving “guards” and “prisoners” that was abandoned after six days and has not yet been successfully reproduced.
Another experiment involving children conducted by Jane Elliott investigated the effects of discrimination by dividing them up into two groups based on having either of these two traits. Name both.
marshmallows
Stanford University
blue-eyed and brown-eyed (accept anything indicating blue and brown eye color) &lt;Yue&gt;
Answer some questions about American sociologists’ views of social interaction, for 10 points each:
In The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life, Erving Goffman analogized people to be of this profession, who perform differently in “front” and “back” settings. Stanislavski’s system trains people for this profession.
A Robert D. Putnam work surveys the decline of in-person social interaction in America by citing falling league membership for this activity. That work titled for performing this activity rejects the “repotting hypothesis” and asks, “Why is US social capital eroding?”
Putnam suggests that this entity is the cause of increasing individualization in America in Bowling Alone. Advances in it, illustrated by the growth of the Internet and social networks, change the nature of social interaction.
acting (accept word forms; prompt on performer)
bowling (accept Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community)
technology &lt;Yue&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about taxes.
This type of tax is charged by a government on the final exchange of a finished good and may be calculated at a cash register.
This curve relates government revenue to taxation and is often said to have been drawn by its namesake on a napkin. According to this curve, government revenue is maximized with a top marginal tax rate of around 70%.
This form of tax, which has never been implemented, was first proposed by Juliet Rhys-Williams before being analyzed by a more notable economist. Congress rejected President Nixon’s proposal for this kind of tax in 1971.
sales tax [prompt on consumption tax; prompt on value-added tax or VAT]
Laffer curve
negative income tax [or NIT; do not accept or prompt on “income tax”] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
Our minds are not our own. For 10 points each, identify some ways in which psychology rather than choice may control the way people think and act.
This term refers to self-imposed manipulation of information or the search for information to support what people already believe. According to a study of it in courts, “hedgehogs” are less reliable than “foxes” with multiple hypotheses.
This effect refers to the tendency to not help a victim if others are present. One example of this effect occurred when, according to a questionable report, 38 people heard or saw Kitty Genovese’s murder and didn’t call the police.
This form of bias occurs when people focus on things which have passed a given selection process. An example is thinking that since 50% of top students at a school are in a given club, that club helps students earn good grades.
confirmation bias [accept confirmatory bias; accept myside bias; prompt on partial]
bystander effect [accept bystander apathy; prompt on apathy; prompt on Genovese syndrome]
survival bias [accept survivorship bias; prompt on correlation is not causation and equivalents] &lt;CL&gt;
Jean Piaget’s work focused on these people. For 10 points each:
Identify these people who, according to Piaget, develop object permanence during the sensorimotor stage. Erik Erikson researched the education of a Sioux group of these people on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.
In a partially disproven study on delayed gratification, children were offered one of these items immediately or two after a wait. Children able to wait for these items, which are not cookies or pretzels, had more successful lives.
This psychologist led the Stanford marshmallow experiment. His book Personality and Assessment argued that observable personality traits are highly situation-dependent.
children [or kids or minors or other equivalents; generously accept baby or babies; do not accept or prompt on “infants”]
marshmallows
Walter Mischel &lt;CL&gt;
As of 2017, the board game named for this economic condition no longer features the thimble. For 10 points each:
Identify this economic situation in which one source controls the entire supply of a commodity. Antitrust laws seek to prevent this economic situation, and it can cause a loss of efficiency known as deadweight loss.
In contrast to a monopoly, this economic situation exists when there is only one consumer of a given commodity. In microeconomics, examples of this situation include a large company deciding whom to hire in a small town.
In the modern day, this technology company has often been accused of being a monopoly due to its “embrace, extend, and extinguish” policy, which was revealed by name in a 2001 case.
monopoly [accept word forms]
monopsony [accept word forms]
Microsoft Corporation [prompt on MS] &lt;CL&gt;
Tok Pisin is an example of these systems used in Papua New Guinea. For 10 points each:
Identify these stable systems which often develop from pidgins and are contrasted with similar mixed or hybrid systems of the same type. One of these systems called Manglish is used in Malaysia.
Haitian Creole is primarily based on a version of this Romance language. Along with English, this language is one of the official languages of Canada.
Some creole languages, such as the United States’s Gullah, incorporate these words, which are taken directly from a donor, unlike cognates. Examples in Gullah include “oonuh” for “you” and “benne” for “sesame.”
creole languages [or creoles; accept but otherwise do not reveal English-based creole languages or English-based creoles]
French [accept le français]
loanwords &lt;CL&gt;
This quantity is equal for both axes of the indifference curve. For 10 points each:
Name this economic concept which describes the amount of satisfaction gained by a customer from a good, as expressed by personal preferences.
These two goods provide one name for the “paradox of value,” in which the one with a seemingly greater utility has a lower value because it is widespread. The concept of marginal utility resolves that paradox about these goods.
The paradox of value presented by diamonds and water was described by this Scottish thinker in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.
utility
diamonds and water [accept in either order; prompt on partial]
Adam Smith &lt;BL/CL&gt;
This thinker coined the term “participatory observation.” For 10 points each:
Name this Polish anthropologist who wrote Argonauts of the Western Pacific and Coral Gardens and Their Magic. His psychological functionalist theory of society opposed Alfred Radcliffe-Brown’s structural functionalism.
In Argonauts of the Western Pacific, Malinowski wrote about the Kula ring in the Trobriand Islands, which is a system of this type of action. In the case of the Kula ring, it primarily involves necklaces and armbands.
It is often said that Malinowski brought anthropology off one of these structures, a phrase which also titled a documentary about his work. Architecturally, these structures are open-air, roofed porches.
Bronisław (Kasper) Malinowski
gift exchange [accept either; generously accept gift-giving and equivalents; do not accept or prompt on “trade”]
verandahs &lt;CL&gt;
As of 2017, the board game named for this economic condition no longer features the thimble. For 10 points each:
Identify this economic situation in which one source controls the entire supply of a commodity. Antitrust laws seek to prevent this economic situation, and it can cause a loss of efficiency known as deadweight loss.
In contrast to a monopoly, this economic situation exists when there is only one consumer of a given commodity. In microeconomics, examples of this situation include a large company deciding whom to hire in a small town.
In the modern day, this technology company has often been accused of being a monopoly due to its “embrace, extend, and extinguish” policy, which was revealed by name in a 2001 case.
monopoly [accept word forms]
monopsony [accept word forms]
Microsoft Corporation [prompt on MS] &lt;CL&gt;
Tok Pisin is an example of these systems used in Papua New Guinea. For 10 points each:
Identify these stable systems which often develop from pidgins and are contrasted with similar mixed or hybrid systems of the same type. One of these systems called Manglish is used in Malaysia.
Haitian Creole is primarily based on a version of this Romance language. Along with English, this language is one of the official languages of Canada.
Some creole languages, such as the United States’s Gullah, incorporate these words, which are taken directly from a donor, unlike cognates. Examples in Gullah include “oonuh” for “you” and “benne” for “sesame.”
creole languages [or creoles; accept but otherwise do not reveal English-based creole languages or English-based creoles]
French [accept le français]
loanwords &lt;CL&gt;
For 10 points each, name some things about taxes.
This type of tax is charged by a government on the final exchange of a finished good and may be calculated at a cash register.
This curve relates government revenue to taxation and is often said to have been drawn by its namesake on a napkin. According to this curve, government revenue is maximized with a top marginal tax rate of around 70%.
This form of tax, which has never been implemented, was first proposed by Juliet Rhys-Williams before being analyzed by a more notable economist. Congress rejected President Nixon’s proposal for this kind of tax in 1971.
sales tax [prompt on consumption tax; prompt on value-added tax or VAT]
Laffer curve
negative income tax [or NIT; do not accept or prompt on “income tax”] &lt;BL/CL&gt;
This quantity is equal for both axes of the indifference curve. For 10 points each:
Name this economic concept which describes the amount of satisfaction gained by a customer from a good, as expressed by personal preferences.
These two goods provide one name for the “paradox of value,” in which the one with a seemingly greater utility has a lower value because it is widespread. The concept of marginal utility resolves that paradox about these goods.
The paradox of value presented by diamonds and water was described by this Scottish thinker in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.
utility
diamonds and water [accept in either order; prompt on partial]
Adam Smith &lt;BL/CL&gt;
Then-graduate student Rosalie Rayner assisted in experiments conducted on this boy. For 10 points each:
Identify this boy in whom Rayner and her professor attempted to develop a phobia of furry objects, using loud noises to scare him when he played with a rat. The name for this boy used by that experiment is shared by Einstein.
Rayner’s professor, credited with designing the Little Albert experiment, was this developer of behaviorism. He also carried out the kerplunk experiment and his reputation was damaged by revelations of his affair with Rayner.
The Little Albert experiment was conducted at this university, where Woodrow Wilson earned his doctorate.
Little Albert [or Albert B.; accept William Barger; accept Douglas Merritte]
John (Broadus) Watson
Johns Hopkins University [or JHU; prompt on Hopkins] &lt;CL&gt;
Name some curves in economics, for 10 points each:
This negatively sloped curve is often drawn with its counterpart, the supply curve, and shows the relationship between the price of a good and the quantity people are willing to buy.
This curve named after an American economist illustrates taxable income elasticity by showing how government revenue changes in response to increases or decreases in the tax rate.
Economists use these concave to the origin curves to show the tradeoff between capital investment and consumer goods. A point inside the curve represents an economy where labor and capital are underemployed while a point on the curve shows full productivity.
demand curve
Laffer curve
Production Possibilities Frontier [accept Production Possibilities Curve]
<em>Ngangkari</em> are traditional healers and community leaders from this culture. For 10 points each:
Along with the Torres Strait Islanders, this group of indigenous Australians inhabited the island before the arrival of the British.
This term refers to the “everywhen” temporal setting of Aboriginal oral tradition. During this period, figures with supernatural abilities roamed the land.
In one story set in Dreamtime, Goomblegubbon the Bustard is jealous of Dinewan, who, like other emus, is a bird that cannot do this.
Australian Aboriginals [accept Aborigines]
Dreamtime
fly [accept word forms like flying; accept flightless birds]
This psychologist was “the great pioneer of the constructivist theory of knowing”, according to Ernst von Glasersfeld, for 10 points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist who developed a four-stage model for cognitive development in children.
In this state of Piaget’s model, children develop abstract reasoning skills. Children gain metacognition and deductive reasoning during this stage.
This concept, the recognition that objects continue to exist even when they are not observed, arises in children at the end of the sensorimotor stage.
Jean Piaget
formal operational
object permanence
Answer some questions about moral psychology, for 10 points each:
This psychologist’s stage theory of moral development contains 3 levels, pre-conventional, conventional, and post-conventional. He also wrote The Philosophy of Moral Development.
Against Kohlberg, Jonathan Haidt argues these phenomena, not reasoning, serve as the base for moral views. Examples of this phenomena include disgust and anger.
According to the moral foundations theory of Jonathan Haidt, people of this type express concern over only the Care and Fairness moral foundations at the expense of the Loyalty, Authority, and Sanctity foundations.
Lawrence Kohlberg
emotions [accept equivalents like feelings]
liberals
Answer the following about famous experiments in psychology, for 10 points each:
Name this Yale psychologist whose namesake experiment tested to what extent participants will obey an authority figure. That experiment occurred during the trial of Adolf Eichmann.
This psychologist conducted the Stanford Prison experiment, which he wrote about in The Lucifer Effect.
Muzafer Sherif conducted this experiment, which studied intergroup conflict between two groups of twelve-year-old boys at a summer camp in Oklahoma.
Stanley Milgram
Philip Zimbardo
Robbers Cave experiment
The four factors of production include land, capital, entrepreneurship and this concept, whose division is the subject of a work by Emile Durkheim. For 10 points each:
Name this factor. A branch of economics named after this concept examines how supply and demand for it affect things like wages and income.
The increase in productivity as a result of a division of labor was discussed by this classical economist in his Wealth of Nations.
In this treatise that criticizes conspicuous consumption, Thorstein Veblen argues that the division of labor resulted in lower classes being the only ones in productive occupations.
labor
Adam Smith
The Theory of the Leisure Class
Hans Morgenthau founded this school of international relations, which believes that national interest drives foreign policy decisions. For 10 points each:
First, name this theory usually contrasted with liberalism and constructivism, which emphasizes states as primary actors and whose proponents include E.H. Carr.
A balance of this concept is a key tenet of realism. This concept can be defined as the ability of one entity to influence another through coercion, diplomacy, or other means.
This American political scientist hypothesized the title “Clash of Civilizations” in the post-Cold War era and divided the globe based on cultural and religious identities.
realism
power [accept balance of power]
Samuel P. Huntington
Language isolates are languages that have no genealogical relationship with any other languages. For 10 points each:
This language had one of the first writing systems, known as cuneiform. Once spoken in Mesopotamia, it is now extinct.
Another name for this other language isolate is euskara. Primarily spoken around the Bay of Biscay, this is the only non-Indo-European language in Europe, spoken in a Spanish province.
The yukar is written in the classical form of this language, which uses postpositions instead of prepositions. The Sakhalin dialect of this language went extinct in 1994, leaving only the Hokkaido variant.
Sumerian
Basque
Ainu
For 10 points, name these things related to experiments conducted by Stanley Milgram that aren’t his famous obedience experiment:
Milgram worked with the makers of Medical Center to study if performing this activity could affect antisocial behavior. People have sounded the alarm since the 50s on the amount of violence consumed while doing this action.
Milgram studied people who do this action after finding an item either lost by charitable organizations or by reviled groups like “Friends of the Nazi Party.” He also studied how many times this action was performed in the small world experiment.
Milgram also coined this term for the type of person you regularly see, but whom you never actually interact with. Other quizbowl players at this tournament might be an example.
watching television (accept obvious equivalents like TV in place of television)
mailing a package or letter (accept obvious equivalents; prompt on “sending something” or “passing it on” and other obvious equivalents; the final answer must clearly allude to a form of postal behavior)
familiar stranger (accept exact phrase only) &lt;Kuang&gt;
Some gorgeous new classmate walks into class, and you can’t tell if it’s love at first sight or the autonomous physiological response of arousal. For 10 points each:
Hyperarousal can lead to this primal response, in which an animal gets ready to either brawl or timidly run away.
This chemical has been called the “love hormone,” and it’s been linked to feelings of sexual arousal, though it’s been identified with several other purposes such as maternal bonding.
In one experiment, subjects were given a woman’s phone number either during or after performing this activity. Subjects in the middle of performing this activity had higher levels of arousal and were more likely to call the woman.
fight-or-flight response
oxytocin
crossing a bridge (accept any obvious equivalents; accept more specific details like a shaky bridge or a suspension bridge, etc.) &lt;Kuang&gt;
This book illustrates the limitations of one part of the mind with the acronym <em>WYSIATI</em>, or “what you see is all there is.” For 10 points each:
Name this book by Dan Kahneman. Its title references Kahneman’s description of the mind as being split into an intuitive “System 1” and a more logical and deliberative “System 2.”
In the book, Daniel Kahneman describes this phenomenon in which positive traits are ascribed to people we find attractive. It probably explains why you think the Harvard quizbowl team is friendly and generous as well as drop-dead gorgeous.
Kahneman’s advocacy for slow, cognitive thinking clashes with this pop psychologist’s support for intuition in works like Blink. According to his book Outliers, it takes 10,000 hours of practice to become an expert at something.
Thinking, Fast and Slow
halo effect
Malcolm (Timothy) Gladwell &lt;Chu&gt;
This approach has been superseded by the use of bare phrase structures. For 10 points each:
Name this “theory” for diagramming grammars in trees using phrases such as inflectional phrases. Certain branches of those trees are called heads, and can take complements.
X-bar was initially developed by this linguist, whose pioneering work is the text Syntactic Structures. He has been a pioneering proponent of the theory of a universal grammar.
Among the most common phrases in X-bar theory are those made from this part of speech, which can take determinants such as articles. These parts of speech can be declined or possess a gender.
X-bar theory
Noam Chomsky
nouns &lt;Kuang&gt;
This work asserts that emulation and advertising causes increased consumer needs, termed the “dependence effect.” For 10 points each:
Name this book originally titled “Why the Poor are Poor.” It contains such chapters as “The Bill Collector Cometh” and “The Paramount Position of Production” and popularized the term “conventional wisdom.”
This Canadian-American economist wrote The Affluent Society. He explored the nature of “technostructures” in American society in his book The New Industrial State.
A contemporary of Galbraith was C. Wright Mills, who notably described this subgroup of the American working class in a book of the same name. This group usually works in an office environment and is contrasted with the more manual “blue” variety.
The Affluent Society
John Kenneth Galbraith
white collar (prompt on partial answer) &lt;Yue&gt;
Amartya Sen’s “Liberal Paradox” states that a society cannot both have a minimal sense of freedom and this economic condition.
Name this state of allocation of resources from which it is impossible to make one party better off without making another worse off.
In economics, this term represents the satisfaction experienced by the consumer of a good or service. An indifference curve represents all possible combinations of two goods for which this term stays constant.
This British economist equated the utility of the wage with the marginal disutility of employment, but more notably argued that government spending was necessary to keep up aggregate demand in times of depression.
Pareto efficiency (or Pareto optimality)
utility
John Maynard Keynes &lt;Suh&gt;
John von Neumann proved an early concept in the modern version of this field. For 10 points each:
Identify this mathematical field which deals with logical decision making. One situation analyzed in this field is the prisoner’s dilemma.
In the prisoner’s dilemma, this state occurs when each player turns the other in. In this state, players cannot improve their own outcomes by unilaterally changing their strategies.
Game theory originally addressed this type of game, exemplified by cutting a cake. The minimax theorem can be used to solve this type of game.
game theory [prompt on partial]
Nash equilibrium
zero-sum game [accept strictly competitive game; prompt on competitive game] &lt;CL&gt;
This field was pioneered by Edward Burnett Tylor and Franz Boas. For 10 points each:
Name this field similar to cultural anthropology, the study of the customs of people and cultures from an insider’s point of view. Examples include Malinowski’s Argonauts of the Western Pacific and the 1922 film Nanook of the North.
This notable ethnographer is known for studying the Yanomami people and violence among them, and wrote about them in the 1968 book The Fierce People. The New York Times Magazine called him the “most controversial anthropologist” in the United States.
The Yanomami, a polygamous hunter-gatherer group which also grows bananas, live in this region, which shares its name with the longest river in South America. Other people-groups of this region include the Xingu and the Pirahã.
ethnography
Napoleon Alphonseau Chagnon
Amazon rainforest &lt;CO&gt;
This man’s work has attracted controversy surrounding its claims concerning genetics and intelligence, including a violent confrontation at Middlebury College in 2017. For 10 points each:
Name this American political scientist who recently examined family breakdown in his book Coming Apart. He is perhaps best known for his 1994 book about intelligence, The Bell Curve, which we wrote with Richard Herrnstein.
Description acceptable. The Bell Curve’s controversy in part revolves around its analysis the increasing prevalence of this phenomenon in the United States. This description is estimated to be the apply approximately 40% of births in the United States.
This racial group forms the population studied in Coming Apart. Vermont has the highest share of this racial group as a percentage of total population in the United States.
Charles Alan Murray
out of wedlock births [accept illegitimate births; accept descriptions such as parents not being married]
white people [accept obvious equivalents such as Caucasians] &lt;LT&gt;
This is a market filled with bears and bulls. For 10 points each:
Name this type of market or place where shares of publicly listed companies are traded. Examples include NASDAQ and the Euronext.
Besides stocks, this financial instrument can also be traded on a stock exchange. It gains its value but does not actually entitle ownership of an underlying asset such as a stock, examples include options and futures, and one type of these called a collateralized debt organization, or CDO, played a crucial role in creating the Great Recession.
Name this theory which holds that the stock market is completely random and cannot be predicted, making it impossible to beat the stock market average without increasing liability or risk. It takes its name from a 1973 book by Burton Gordon Malkiel.
stock exchanges [accept obvious equivalents]
derivatives
random walk theory &lt;BL&gt;
Languages that cannot be classified into one of these, such as Basque and Korean, are said to be language isolates. For 10 points each:
Name these groups of languages who share a common “proto”-language. Examples include Dravidian and Afro-Asiatic.
Romance languages and Balto-Slavic languages are subdivisions in this most widely studied language family. The“proto-”language of this family was reconstructed in the 20th century by August Schleicher.
This language is thought to be the most similar to Proto-Indo-European and thus one of the oldest languages in the world. It is one of two surviving Baltic languages.
language families
Indo-European language family
Lithuanian &lt;PO&gt;
The Latin term <em>malum prohibitum</em> describes a type of this phenomenon that exists only because it is decreed by the law, rather than because it is inherently wrong. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which the law is violated by an individual. People who engage in this type of behavior may face fines or prison sentences.
This criminological theory argues that maintaining order by punishing minor anti-social offenses will prevent more serious crimes. It takes its name from a prototypical minor enforceable offense.
This US city adopted broken windows-style policing under Police Commissioner Bill Bratton and Mayor Rudy Giuliani. Whether a decrease in crime rates is the result of these reforms has become a controversial question in this city.
crime [accept obvious equivalents]
broken windows theory
New York City [accept NYC] &lt;LT&gt;
This economist and Anna Schwartz wrote <em>A Monetary History of the United States</em>, <em>1867-1960</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Chicago School economist who was noted for his advocacy of free-market viewpoints. His most famous work is Free to Choose, and he formulated the idea of monetarism.
This other free market economist and famous adherent of the Austrian School criticized socialism in The Road to Serfdom and The Fatal Conceit.
Hayek did most of his work at this non-Austrian city at its namesake School of Economics. The Thames (“TEMS”) River runs through this city.
Milton Friedman
Friedrich August von Hayek
London &lt;LT&gt;
Do you see the white vase, or the two black faces on other side? This school of psychology explains why we can’t see both images in the famous optical illusion at once. For 10 points each:
Name this school of psychology, which explores the way our mind seeks to make a “completion” of our sensory stimuli. Its name is the German word for “whole.”
Gestalt psychology says that if we see the white vase, the black faces form the “ground” against which we perceive it. What complementary word is given to the vase, the primary visual object we perceive?
This gestalt psychologist famously conducted what he called “impression” experiments, including one in which he demonstrated the impulse to conformity by asking subjects to estimate the length of lines.
gestalt psychology
figure
Solomon Asch &lt;CC&gt;
A system for performing this action satisfies the Condorcet criteria if the winner would still win one-on-one against every other candidate. For 10 points each:
Name this action which a democracy might use to elect a candidate to office. It’s used with the Electoral College in the US.
The US also uses this system in which a voter indicates their preferred choice, and the “first” candidate with the most votes wins. This system promotes a two-party system and the concept of “wasted votes.”
This other randomized selection process is used today to select from a pool of candidates to serve on a jury. It was also used to select ancient Athenian politicians.
voting (accept word forms)
first-past-the-post (prompt on winner-take-all)
sortition (prompt on demarchy; prompt on “drawing straws”)
The Slutsky equation relates changes in the Marshallian and Hicksian forms of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this economic quantity representing the desire for a good, almost always contrasted with supply.
Most forms of demand have this relationship with respect to price according to the first law of demand. The demand curves of Veblen and Giffen goods do not have this property.
This economist names a model of transactions demand with William Baumol. This Nobel laureate also names a tax levied on foreign currency exchange transactions.
demand
inverse (accept things like as price goes up, demand goes down or as price goes down, demand goes up; accept negative slope)
James Tobin (or Baumol-Tobin model; or Tobin tax)
Answer the following about possibly unethical psychological experiments on children, for 10 points each:
Children in the University of Iowa’s Monster Study were harshly criticized for having this common speech defect in which syllables are involuntarily repeated over and over.
The nine month-old subject of this experiment carried out by John Watson was conditioned to fear a white rat, as its presence was accompanied by a loud banging noise.
Schoolteacher Jane Elliott pioneered diversity training as the result of an experiment conducted the day after Martin Luther King was shot. In the experiment, Elliott segregated her class based on this characteristic.
stuttering (or stammering; accept word forms)
Little Albert experiment
eye color (or whether they had blue or brown eyes; prompt on partial answer)
Robert’s group is playing a game where each person has to guess a number between 0 and 100 that is closest to two-thirds of the average of the group’s guesses. For 10 points each:
Strangely, Robert and his friends should all guess 0, a strategy exemplifying this situation. In this situation, nobody benefits from changing their strategy, assuming all other players’ strategies stay constant.
Because he studied game theory, Robert knows that the Nash equilibrium involving a “dilemma” of these two people is when they both defect. In their namesake “dilemma,” two of these people are offered the chance to rat each other out.
Robert requires cooperation--or else. Thus, during repeated games of the prisoner’s dilemma, he pursues this strategy of constantly cooperating until the other player defects, after which Robert defects forever.
Nash equilibrium (or Nash equilibria; prompt on partial answer)
prisoner’s dilemma
grim trigger (or Friedman; prompt on trigger)
One work on this concept argues that “it may save the world from barbarism.” For 10 points each:
First, name this concept that the French thinker Georges Sorel wrote some “Reflections on.” Another thinker wrote about the “monopoly” of a similarly translated term in Politics as Vocation.
The aforementioned author of Politics as Vocation was this man, who discussed the state’s “monopoly on violence.” This sociologist also wrote The Protestant Ethic and Spirit of Capitalism.
Sorel and his writings on violence were also a strong influence on this political ideology. Prominent leaders of this far-right ideology included Francisco Franco and Benito Mussolini, and its name is derived from a Roman symbol of a bundle of rods.
violence (accept force)
Max Weber
Fascism (accept word forms)
Three subdivisions of this sort of substance form a triangle whose main axes are elaborated/unelaborated and culture/nature. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of substance, the subject of the aforementioned triangle devised by Claude Lévi-Strauss. Two of the triangle’s points are types of this substance that also titles the first volume of Lévi-Strauss’ Mythologiques.
Lévi-Strauss authored The Raw and the Cooked and also posited that the original reason for marriage was to avoid the “incest” type of this construct, a term generally applied to actions that egregiously violate social norms.
Lévi-Strauss was the founder of the “structural” form of this discipline, which was pioneered in America by Franz Boas. Its name translates as “study of man.”
food (accept literally any type of food; accept culinary triangle)
taboo (or incest taboo)
anthropology (or structural anthropology)
This work posits that notions of masculinity and femininity are shielded from critique in a “heterosexual matrix.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1990 work, the most famous by Judith Butler. In it, Butler mentions drag shows as examples of the “performativity” of the title concept, which, like sex, she claims is constructed.
Gender Trouble is a seminal text of the “third-wave” form of this social theory. Another expounder of this theory was Simone de Beauvoir, who wrote about the oppression of women in The Second Sex.
This thinker touched off second-wave feminism with a book based on a survey of alumnae of Smith College called The Feminine Mystique. She was also the first president of the National Organization for Women.
Gender Trouble
feminism (or feminist theory; accept second-wave feminism; accept third-wave feminism)
Betty Friedan (or Bettye Naomi Goldstein)
Sismondi's use of macro-economic lag analysis led to the theory that this pattern existed, and Joseph Schumpeter argued that it has four phases. For 10 points each.
Give this term used to describe the long term patterns of periods of growth, periods of stagnation, and periods of contraction in the economy.
This economist argued that government should act to stabilize the business cycle through deficit spending in his General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
Downturns in the business cycle are generally linked to inwards shifts in this curve which shows the trade-offs resulting from producing more or less of one good. A common example uses guns and butter.
 the business cycle
John Maynard Keynes
 production possibility frontier [or production possibility curve; or production possibility boundary; or product transformation curve; accept ppf]
This country's four major ethnic groups include the Yoruba, the Igbo, the Hausa, and the Fulani. For 10 points each:
Identify this African nation which is currently struggling against the Islamic fundamentalist group Boko Haram.
This starchy plant's roots are often dried in Nigeria to make fufu. A key staple food for Asian, South American, and African countries, this plant's root extract is called tapioca.
A 64-ton cassava mill is housed in this largest and most populous city in Nigeria.
Federal Republic of Nigeria
cassava [or manioc; or Manihot esculenta; or M. esculenta]
 Lagos 
Answer some questions about the breakdown of logic, 10 points each:
This type of dubious argument involves attacking someone's personal qualities instead of responding to his or her argument. It comes from the Latin for "to the man."
Ad hominem attacks are one of these kinds of logical errors. Examples of them include "straw man," "slippery slope," and "begging the question."
This author, who won the Nobel prize in 2002, wrote about common cognitive biases and fallacies in the 2011 book Thinking, Fast and Slow.
argumentum ad hominem
formal fallacy [or logical fallacy]
Daniel Kahneman
Answer the following about how memory can fail us, for 10 points each:
This phenomenon is the common name for the result of memory retention declining over time. Hermann Ebbinghaus plotted a "curve" for this concept, which is the opposite of remembering.
Our memories can become distorted due to the misinformation effect, which Elizabeth Loftus studied by implanting false childhood memories of getting lost in this type of place.
Our recent memories can also make us susceptible to this cognitive bias. This bias causes us to overestimate the frequency of certain events due to how easily accessible our memories of them are.
forgetting [accept word forms]
mall [prompt on any sort of "shop"]
 availability heuristic [or availability bias] 
Readers differ on whether the <em>SCUM Manifesto</em> is a satirical example of a work in this school. For 10 points each::
Name this school of thought that was discussed by Simone de Beauvoir in The Second Sex. Its first-wave form was mainly concerned with civil rights like suffrage.
This work launched second-wave feminism in the US. It was written by Betty Friedan after interviewing her former classmates and finding them unhappy as housewives.
This later work of third-wave and post-structural feminism is probably the best known book by Judith Butler. It proposed the idea of gender performativity.
feminism (accept word forms)
The Feminine Mystique
Gender Trouble
C.S. Peirce [“purse”] defined these entities using a triadic relationship, connecting them to the object and the interpretant. For 10 points each:
Name this units of meaning that are studied in semiotics. Icons and symbols are good examples.
This man’s Course in General Linguistics examines what he called semiology. He described the sign as a double entity of “signified” and “signifier.”
The semiotics of a Balzac short story were studied in this work by Roland Barthes [“bart”]. It posits various codes of meaning, such as the hermeneutic code and the semic code.
signs (accept word forms)
Ferdinand de Saussure
S/Z
This man popularized the idea of an “oceanic feeling” that exists in infants prior to the conception of the self. For 10 points each:
Name this German thinker whose ideas of psychoanalysis include concepts like projection and the Oedipus complex.
Freud’s model of the psyche includes this portion of yourself that strives for perfection and clashes with the id. You can think of it as the naggy parent that’s always with you.
Freud also identified this practice of when a patient converts the sexual drive into some other socially acceptable pastime, like clock making or quizbowl. Don’t confuse it with displacement.
Sigmund Freud
super-ego (do not accept or prompt on just “ego” as that’s another concept)
sublimation (accept word forms)
Do you believe in magic? For 10 points each:
First, name this phenomenon that was studied by Sir Edward Evans-Pritchard among the Azande people in Africa. After a rash of epileptic fits, several people were accused of this in the town of Salem, Massachusetts.
Agricultural rites are described in this anthropologist’s Coral Gardens and Their Magic. He described gift exchange in the Kula Ring in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
The subtitle of this book by James Frazer is sometimes given as “A Study in Magic and Religion.” It describes the ritual of the reincarnated king and is titled after an item in the Aeneid.
witchcraft (prompt on things like “magic” and “sorcery”)
Bronisław (Kasper) Malinowski
The Golden Bough
Maximizing this quantity for a consumer under a given budget constraint gives the optimal consumption bundle. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. It can be defined as the satisfaction derived from consuming a good.
These curves connect consumption bundles with equal utility. Their name comes from the fact that the consumer has no preference for different consumption bundles along one of these curves.
The concept of the indifference curve was developed by this economist, who also names a “box” used to represent the allocation of two goods between two consumers in general equilibrium theory.
utility
indifference curves
Francis Ysidro Edgeworth
A motion of no confidence is an example of the disapproval type of this action. For 10 points each:
Name this action in which actors cast ballots to make decisions, such as electing candidates.
This voting system is an example of a plurality voting system. In it, the candidate with the most votes wins outright.
Arrow’s impossibility theorem states that no voting system can satisfactorily meet all of a given set of fairness criteria, among which is an “efficiency” named for this man. This man also names an inequality index.
voting(accept word forms)
first­past­the­post(prompt on “winner takes all”)
Vilfredo Pareto
Name these things related to the rich and powerful, for 10 points each:
This term is frequently used to describe those with greater economic and financial advantage. Galbraith wrote a book about a “Society” described by this term, and a portmanteau of this term and “influenza” describes a supposed disease held by the rich not responsible for their actions.
This economist described the behavior of people buying things just to show off as “conspicuous consumption” in his book The Theory of the Leisure Class.
This book combines the military, political, and corporate classes into the title group. In contrast, the author’s earlier book of White Collar focuses on the middle classes.
affluence (accept word forms)
Thorstein Veblen
The Power Elite (the book is by C. Wright Mills)
The gorilla Koko learned to use an American example of these languages. For 10 points each:
Name this group of languages that uses hand gestures instead of sound and that is primarily used by the deaf.
The study of sign languages examines cheremes instead of these fundamental units of sound. These units typically make up morphemes.
A case study in the spontaneous development of language arose in this country after a group of deaf schoolchildren created a sign language that the linguist Judy Kegl termed ISN.
sign language (accept word forms)
phonemes (do not accept or prompt on just “phones”)
Republic of Nicaragua
The ongon of these people are contained in a drum. For 10 points each:
Name these mystic figures common in many animistic traditions. They interact with the spirit world through an altered state of mind.
These colorful wooden carvings full of bears, birds, faces, and even killer whales have become bits of Americana scattered throughout the Pacific Northwest.
These objects, along with turtle plastrons, were used to divine the future by Chinese Shamans. They are of modern interest to archaeologists and linguists since inscriptions on them may be a direct precursor to Chinese.
shamans (accept word forms)
totem poles
oracle bones (prompt on “bones”)
One of this man’s experiments asked subjects to identify which photograph matched what a doll would see from its view of three model mountains. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist who theorized the sensorimotor and preoperational stages as part of his theory of cognitive development.
Piaget’s work examined the schemata that this type of person experiences the world through. The motor development undergone by this type of person allows them to first roll over, then stand, then walk.
Sigmund Freud theorized that children develop through five psychosexual phases, the first of which he gave this name. Fixation on this stage can later result in over-eating, smoking, and childlike dependence on others.
Jean Piaget
children [or babies, infants, toddlers, etc.]
oral stage &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
Name these criminal offenses. For 10 points each:
This crime is committed when a person asserts the truth of their false testimony under oath.
This crime differs from assault in that it explicitly involves intentional unlawful physical contact.
This crime is defined as the intentional unlawful misreporting of assets for personal usage. Bernie Madoff’s investment scheme was a complex, high-level form of this crime.
perjury [or forswearing]
battery
embezzlement [or peculation] &lt;AP Misc&gt;
The practice of this behavior in the lower classes is called “pecuniary emulation.” For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term introduced by Thorstein Veblen in Theory of the Leisure Class to describe the purchase of luxury goods for the purpose of demonstrating wealth or social status.
Veblen’s Theory of the Leisure Class criticizes many aspects of this economic system, which is based on competitive markets and the private ownership of the means of production.
Veblen traced a certain pastime to predatory barbarian culture in a chapter called “The Belief in” in this phenomenon. Boethius’s The Consolation of Philosophy introduced a popular personification of this concept.
conspicuous consumption
capitalism
luck [accept fortune or Fortuna] &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
Answer some questions about monetary policy. For 10 points each:
Monetary policy is concerned with manipulating the supply of this liquid asset in the economy. One important measure of this liquid asset includes coins, currency, and demand deposits in its calculation.
To alter the money supply, central banks may perform open-market operations, in which this type of asset is either bought from or sold to commercial banks.
This monetarist economist from the Chicago school wrote A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960, which argued that the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy errors exacerbated the Great Depression.
money [or M1]
bonds [or government security or Treasury security; anti-prompt on “Treasury bill”]
Milton Friedman &lt;WC Social Science&gt;
The CBD is at the center of these areas in the concentric zone model by Ernest Burgess. For 10 points each:
Name these metropolitan centers of population that have impoverished “inner” areas and are surrounded by suburbs.
Robert E. Park tried to explain the creation of cities in terms of this theory. A notable advocate of this theory defined the “new Toryism” in Man Versus the State and penned Social Statics.
Saskia Sassen coined a term for this type of city. Marshall McLuhan discussed how telecommunications have created this type of village, and this word names a process that has allowed the growth of outsourcing.
cities [or urban areas; prompt on “towns” or equivalents]
social Darwinism [or evolution]
global [or globalization] &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
Mandarin Chinese is a language that does not mark this category. For 10 points each:
Name this grammatical category that indicates when a verb takes place relative to the time of the utterance. Past, present, and future are basic kinds of this category.
This grammatical category distinguishes verbs that represent continuous actions from those that represent actions with endpoints. The perfective and imperfective types, for example, differ in whether an action is complete.
The preterite passé simple, combining past tense and perfective aspect, disappeared in this language, except in American dialects and literary use. It was replaced by a “compound past” that uses the auxiliary verb “to have,” or “to be” if the main verb is intransitive and indicates motion.
tense
aspect
French &lt;OL Social Science&gt;
Answer the following questions about hot new trends in education. For 10 points each:
An educational approach named for this type of classroom is designed so that students learn material at home and practice it at school with guidance from their teacher.
This system of unified educational standards is a project of the Obama administration. Its techniques for teaching addition and multiplication have been subject to widespread mockery.
This system run by the College Board was implemented after the launch of Sputnik and allows students to earn college credit for high school courses by passing exams.
flipped classroom
Common Core
Advanced Placement &lt;NC Misc&gt;
Answer the following about anthropologist Margaret Mead. For 10 points each:
Mead’s best-known work is about the sexual behavior of adolescents on these Pacific islands.
Mead documented the Arapesh saying, “Your own yams… you must not eat,” which reflects a prohibition on this practice. Exogamic marriages arose from a taboo on this practice of having sexual relations with relatives.
With Gregory Bateson, Mead did a photographic study of the character of this place. Another writer discussed this place’s 19th-century “theater state” and used “thick description” to document an illegal activity practiced here.
Samoa
incest
Bali &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
Freud argued that the mind of a newborn child is devoted almost completely to this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this part of Freud’s psychic apparatus which acts on the pleasure principle and contains the libido. Unconscious by definition, it is the only personality component which exists at birth.
This personality part works in contradiction to the id. Acting as a moral conscience, it is characterized by its internalization of societal rules and cultural influence.
This psychological concept formulated by Carl Jung is the archetype of feminine inner personality. Jung named this concept’s four levels of development Eve, Helen, Mary, and Sophia.
id
superego (accept über-ich)
anima &lt;LG&gt;
This man argued that the increasing rationalization of Western society created an “iron cage.” For 10 points each:
Name this German author of Economy and Society who classified legitimate authority into rational-legal, traditional, and charismatic types.
Weber coined this term, which proposes that the influence of Calvinism and similar religious movements explain the economic development of Western Europe. He paired this term with the “Spirit of Capitalism.”
Along with Karl Marx and Emile Durkheim, Weber is considered one of the founders of this social science that studies human behavior and institutions.
Max Weber (VAY-ber)
protestant ethic (accept “protestant work ethic”)
sociology
An example of this term occurs when a parent stops nagging their child after the child cleans up their room. For 10 points each:
Identify this frequently misused term, a type of conditioning which occurs when something unwanted is removed as a consequence of a desired behavior. It is often confused with a type of punishment.
Negative reinforcement is part of the theory of operant conditioning formulated by this psychologist. He also wrote the utopian novel Walden Two.
B.F. Skinner helped to develop this type of psychology which limited itself to the study of observable events. It was heavily influenced by the work of Ivan Pavlov.
negative reinforcement
Burrhus Frederic Skinner
behaviorism [accept behavioral psychology] &lt;CC&gt;
Economists have organized themselves into different schools of thought. For 10 points each:
Name this school that emphasizes individual rights and free markets. If differs from the Chicago School predominately in issues of monetary policy, as economists from this school believe that the central bank should be abolished.
This Austrian economist who wrote The Constitution of Liberty and who argued that central economic planning always leads to tyrannical government..
This seminal work of Hayek’s explained the progression of economic and political repression in a society. Its title is taken from the writings of 19th century thinker Alexis de Tocqueville.
Austrian School
Friedrich Hayek
The Road to Serfdom
In his Theory on Profit, this economist stated that real profits decrease as wages increase, and many attribute his ideas to the formulation of the Iron Law of Wages. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th century English economist and author of Principles of Political Economy and Taxation.
Ricardo formulated this theory, which stated that a nation should concentrate its resources in its strongest industries. In turn, the nation would get products that it lacked from other nations which did the same.
Ricardo also names this principle, which states that demand will remain unchanged when a government increases debt-financed spending.
David Ricardo
theory of comparative advantage
Ricardian equivalence [accept Barro-Ricardo equivalence proposition]
This term includes events that can vary from car accidents to copyright infringement. For 10 points each:
Give the term for a civil wrong that unfairly causes someone to suffer loss or harm. Typically they result from negligence which falls short of being labeled “criminal.”
Torts are prevalent in this kind of law system which gives weight to the precedent established by earlier case law. It is the law system used in the United States and is usually contrasted from civil law.
This other common law term describes an agreement entered into voluntarily by two parties. One of these requires an offer, acceptance, and an intention to create legal relations.
tort
common law
contract
This was increased in Oakland effective March 2, 2015, as over 80% of voters wanted. For 10 points each:
Identify this value which some argue improves quality of life and reduces class disparity, while others say it threatens small businesses. Nationally, it is $7.25.
It’s not retail, but workers in this sector have protested nationally in hopes of raising the minimum wage to $15.00. An employer in this sector insisted that 90% of its American locations were franchises that could face losses upon paying employees $15.00.
President Barack Obama supports a bill to raise the minimum wage to this amount in the second half of 2016, but it is stalled in Congress.
minimum wage
fast food [prompt on food, McDonald’s, or service]
$10.10 &lt;CL&gt;
His geographical trip in Canada kick-started his most famous career path, and he also worked at the Smithsonian and Columbia University. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose works include Tsimshian Texts, Primitive Art, and The Mind of Primitive Man. He also argued against scientific racism and stage-based organization.
Boas is most famous for his work in this discipline. He is called the father of its American tradition and conducted revolutionizing research in this discipline about cranial shape and size.
One of Boas' anthropological students was this woman who researched in the Caribbean and American South, prompting her to write the book Mules and Men.
Franz Boas
anthropology
Zora Neale Hurston [prompt on Neale] &lt;CL&gt;
Tax policy is a source of much debate among economists. For 10 points each:
Name this graphical construct that is used in determining the hypothetical tax revenue at given rates. It works under the assumption that at both tax extremes there will be no taxable income.
The Laffer curve is often used by proponents of this economic school to justify reduction in taxation as a way to increase state revenue. This school also postulates that the most economically beneficial course of action is to eliminate barriers to producers.
Followers of this author of The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money often criticize supply-side economics. He is most famous for advocating deficit spending.
Laffer curve
supply-side economics
John Maynard Keynes &lt;LT&gt;
Adam Smith wrote a <em>Theory of [these] Sentiments</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this term that describes the principles on which people base their judgements. A system of ethics may be based on this concept.
This American psychologist proposed six stages of moral development based on the work of Jean Piaget. He created the "Heinz dilemma,” in which Heinz must decide whether to steal an unaffordable cancer drug to save his wife.
The last two stages of Kohlberg's theory are given this term. This level of morality includes social contract- and universal principle-based morality.
morality [or morals]
Lawrence Kohlberg
post-conventional &lt;AG&gt;
Inflation or deflation in a currency will change this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this ratio between the values of 2 or more different currencies. This ratio between the euro and the dollar is getting closer to 1:1, which it has not been since 2002.
This woman is the chairperson of the Federal Reserve, which releases daily bilateral exchange rates. She has lately been strongly against raising interest rates until she is sure that the economy will sustain itself without them.
The New York Fed’s regulator to this group, Carmen Segarra, refused to falsify a report about improper actions by this group in 2012. This group, together with Deutsche Bank, led Apple's largest corporate-bond deal in Apple Inc.'s history in April of 2013.
exchange rate [accept foreign exchange rate, FX rate, or Agio]
Janet Louise Yellen
The Goldman-Sachs Group, Inc. &lt;GA&gt;
Freud argued that the mind of a newborn child is devoted almost completely to this structure. For 10 points each:
Name this part of Freud’s psychic apparatus which acts on the pleasure principle and contains the libido. Unconscious by definition, it is the only personality component which exists at birth.
This personality part works in contradiction to the id. Acting as a moral conscience, it is characterized by its internalization of societal rules and cultural influence.
This psychological concept formulated by Carl Jung is the archetype of feminine inner personality. Jung named this concept’s four levels of development Eve, Helen, Mary, and Sophia.
id
superego (accept über-ich)
anima &lt;LG&gt;
For 10 points each, name the following about the study of suicide. 
The first sociological study of suicide was conducted by this French author of Rules of the Sociological Method. He studied differences in suicide rates between Catholic and Protestant communities.
This anxiety disorder is often comorbid with suicidality. Its symptoms include flashbacks, irritability, and hypervigilance. It occurs frequently among military personnel. 
In this test, those at high risk for suicide exhibit delayed reaction time in naming the color of suicide-related words. Its classical formulation presents a conflict between word meaning and font color. 
Emile Durkheim
post-traumatic stress disorder [or PTSD]
Stroop test [or emotional Stroop test]
For 10 points each, answer these questions about learning proper fighting strategy.
Name this book by Sun Tzu on tactics, strategy, and military organization. It contains sections on martial arts and terrain, and characterizes war as an information game involving deception and uncertainty. 
The uncertainty of war is also described as part of a "fascinating trinity" in On War, a text on early 19th-century European warfare by this Prussian officer who served during the Napoleonic Wars.
In On War, Clausewitz parallels war and this concept, which he calls the "womb" of war. He also refers to it as a continuation of war.
The Art of War
Carl von Clausewitz
politics
Answer the following about measures used to compare the economies of different countries. For 10 points each:
This term denotes the total market value of goods and services produced within a country.
This theory holds that currency exchange rates will approach the ratio of prices of identical goods and services in two countries. It can convert GDP between currencies to avoid discrepancies from fluctuating exchange rates.
The price of this corporation's core product is used by The Economist to calculate ideal exchange rates based on PPP. Thomas Friedman suggested that no two countries with one of these stores would go to war with each other
gross domestic product or GDP [do not accept "GNP" or "GDP per capita"]
purchasing power parity [accept PPP]
McDonald's
The incompleteness of this understanding can result in an a-not-b error. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, the continued existence of items that can no longer be seen or otherwise observed. The lack of it may be why some babies are startled by the game of peek-a-boo.
This psychologist first studied object permanence in infants, and believed it originated in the sensorimotor stage of his theory of cognitive development. 
The first stage of object permanence is named for the schema of these involuntary reactions. They include sucking and grasping, and Piaget suggested that they facilitate sensorimotor development.
object permanence
Jean Piaget
primitive reflexes
For 10 points, name these researchers who used the associative learning procedure called conditioning.
This physiologist helped define classical conditioning with his work measuring the salivary response among dogs to the announcement of food by a tuning fork.
This behaviorist trainer of missile-guiding pigeons argued against “autonomous man” in Beyond Freedom and Dignity, and described a society shaped by his work in operant conditioning in Walden Two.
Skinner’s work built on this Columbia psychologist, who found in his work with puzzle-solving cats that rewarded behavior is likely to recur via his “law of effect.”
Ivan Petrovich Pavlov
Burrhus Frederick [B.F.] Skinner
Edward Lee “Ted” Thorndike &lt;MJ&gt;
This man pshawed long-term economic predictions by saying “In the long run, we’re all dead.” For 10 points each:
Name this British macroeconomist, whose General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money advocates deficit stimulus spending during economic crisis.
In the Keynesian IS-LM model, outward shifts in the LM curve represent increases in this quantity, which the M in IS-LM stands for. Milton Friedman claimed that increases in this quantity resulted in inflation.
Keynes theorized this condition, where increases in the money supply do not result in interest rate changes and banks don’t lend the new money. Paul Krugman claimed that Japan suffered this condition in the 1990s.
John Maynard Keynes, 1st Baron Keynes [or Lord Keynes] (“CANES”)
money supply [or money stock; prompt “money”]
liquidity trap &lt;IP&gt;
Answer these questions about the psychology of the end of the world, for 10 points each.
This bias might lead a person at the world’s end to think that they knew the apocalypse was coming all along. In general, it makes people think they were more able to predict events than they were at the time.
When a person expects the end of the world and it doesn’t happen, such as in an apocalypse cult, they might experience this phenomenon of discomfort due to tension between conflicting beliefs or ideas.
This American psychologist pioneered the concept of cognitive dissonance, and used it to study a UFO cult in When Prophecy Fails.
hindsight bias
cognitive dissonance
Leon Festinger &lt;IP&gt;
The “structural” type of this phenomenon impairs citizens’ basic needs, and Max Weber defined the state as an entity with a monopoly on this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, which has declined over time according to data in the 2011 book The Better Angels of Our Nature. It usually involves physical contact with another member of one’s species.
This Harvard psychologist argued that worldwide violence has declined in The Better Angels of Our Nature. His other books include How the Mind Works and The Blank Slate.
Pinker titled another book for the Instinct of this faculty, which children cannot acquire after a “critical period” in early childhood. Its aspects include syntax, semantics, and speech.
violence [accept warfare, combat, force, harming people, wounding others, or other synonyms; prompt “killing”]
Steven Pinker
language [do not accept any other answers] &lt;SSp&gt;
Barack Obama criticized this asset class all throughout his 2012 re-election campaign, mostly because Mitt Romney made his fortune through professionally investing in the asset class. For 10 points each:
Name these stocks that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange. Bain Capital is a firm that invests largely in this asset class.
In this transaction, a private equity fund uses some of its own capital plus a loan secured from an outside lender to purchase majority ownership of a target firm. The loan is paid off from the target company’s future cash or assets.
This firm declared bankruptcy in November 2012 after many private equity firms failed to mediated between it, the Teamsters, and the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers, and Grain Millers’ International Union. It makes Twinkies.
private equity securities [or PE securities]
leveraged buyout [or LBO]
Hostess Brands, Inc. &lt;MH-H&gt;
Germanic languages often follow the V2 principle in determining this property of sentences, whose rare types include OSV and VSO. For 10 points each:
Name this property of utterances which is consistently SVO in English and therefore affects meaning when changed. It is more flexible and can be altered for emphasis in Ancient Greek or Latin.
Along with its noun equivalent, declension, this process is used heavily in flexible-word-order languages to convey meaning. It changes verb endings to mark properties like tense.
This level of syntactic cognition, an old theory of Chomsky, creates underlying regular sentences. Its output is then modified by transformations such as word order changes to produce different surface-level sentences.
word order typology [Editors’ note: “SVO” is “Subject-Verb-Object,” etc.]
conjugation [in the spirit of this answer line, accept word forms such as conjugating]
deep structure [or D-structure] &lt;MJ&gt;
An infamous example of these setups was designed by Stanley Milgram, whose inquiry into obedience led dozens of people to believe they had given lethal electric shocks in a Yale classroom. For 10 points each:
Name this research method by which social scientists measure the causal effect of an independent variable on a dependent variable to test a hypothesis.
In most experiments, this group with neutral data is compared to the experimental group after it doesn’t undergo the main procedure. In a double-blind setup, the experimenter can’t know if participants are in this group.
These studies observe a trend by selecting a group of people and collecting data from those same people over an extended time span, often for years.
experiments
control group
longitudinal study &lt;MJ&gt;
Answer these questions about one of the most popular academic majors at American universities, political science, for 10 points each.
Many departments regard this Florentine Renaissance author as the first political scientist. He gave hardboiled advice to leaders about keeping power in his The Prince.
This economic discipline influences models in political science. It studies strategic decisions in multiplayer setups such as the prisoner’s dilemma, which has the same Nash equilibrium as a nuclear arms race.
According to IR theorist Joseph Nye, this non-coercive form of power should be used by the US instead of force to attain objectives. It encompasses methods such as open diplomacy and appealing to human rights.
Niccolo Machiavelli
game theory [or interactive decision theory]
soft power &lt;MJ&gt;
[missing]
 Name this sociological work, a collection of essays on African-American identity. It argues that the happy black slave is a flawed image created by whites, and describes a "veil" between black and white perspectives.
 The Souls of Black Folk is a seminal work in sociology by this editor of The Crisis. A rival of Booker T. Washington, he introduced the idea of the "talented tenth," and founded the Niagara movement.
 Du Bois coined this phrase to describe the fragmented and often conflicting identities of being black and being American.
 The Souls of Black Folk
 W. E. B. Du Bois ("doo-BOYZ")
 double consciousness [or twoness]
[missing]
 Name this concept which, along with "Coral Gardens," titles a Malinowski book which analyzes agricultural practices of Trobriand Islanders. In "A General Theory of" this concept, Mauss contrasts it with religion.
 This anthropologist suggested that societies first believed in magic, before progressing to religion and science, in his tome of comparative mythology, The Golden Bough.
 Frazer connected the myth of Danae to these rituals for pubertal girls, and Arnold van Gennep described them as breaking off into a new social state. During Poy Sang Long, Burmese monks-to-be undergo this by imitating Buddha's path to enlightenment.
 magic
 James George Frazer
 rites of passage [prompt on partial]
[missing]
 Identify this concept that refers to a machine's ability to reason, plan, learn, and emulate other aspects of human cognition.
 One method of assessing AI is this test, which an AI can pass if their behavior is indistinguishable from that of a human.
 This thought experiment formulated by John Searle challenges functionalism and the validity of the Turing test. It involves using a list of input and output instructions to trick a native speaker of a certain language.
 artificial intelligence [accept AI or machine intelligence]
 Turing test
 Chinese room experiment
[missing]
 This psychologist postulated the existence of the mind as an id, ego, and superego in his Beyond the Pleasure Principle.
 Freud proposed that fixations with this second stage in psychosexual development would cause either a destructive and messy personality or a rigid and compulsive personality.
 Freud claimed that this sex drive is the component of the id that encompasses sexuality.
 Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud]
 anal stage
 libido
Answer some questions about a certain economic concept and one of its originators for 10 points each.
This concept describes the cost of buying into producing a certain good. Examples include the cost of joining a medieval guild, government royalties, or patent and license costs.
This author of An Inquiry Into the Nature and Progress of Rent pointed out the difference between arithmetically growing resources and exponentially increasing population.
According to Malthus, that difference caused the world to be stuck in this structure until the Industrial Revolution, before which technological progress only translated to population growth, not increased income or quality of life.
economic rent
Thomas Malthus
Malthusian trap
[missing]
 These entities can be progressive or regressive. Before becoming savings, income is partitioned such that these are taken out and used to fund public-sector expenditures.
 At tax rates of 0 and 100 percent, this curve assumes that government revenue is zero. Its maxima represents the optimal tax rate.
 This law states that, despite varying tax rates, federal tax revenues in the United States have remained at about 19.5 percent of GDP since World War II.
 taxes
 Laffer curve
 Hauser's Law
[missing]
 This principle of linguistic relativity has a strong form, which holds that thought is determined by language, and a weak form, stating that thought is only influenced, not limited, by language.
 This MIT professor of linguistics and author of Syntactic Structures argued for a universal grammar, meaning that surface differences in languages do not affect cognition, contrary to the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis.
 Berlin and Kay also disputed linguistic relativity, positing a strict, universal sequence in which color terms evolve in language. They claim that this Stage II color is the first to be introduced other than "dark" and "light."
 Sapir-Whorf hypothesis
 Noam Chomsky
 red
[missing]
 Name this psychological concept that refers to characteristics and roles associated with sex. Unlike sex, which is usually considered biologically determined, this concept can be self-determined.
 This writer tackled "the problem that has no name" and, in The Feminine Mystique, described the title concept as the illusion that women were fulfilled through marriage and housework.
 The Feminine Mystique praises this anthropologist for early work on fluid gender dynamics, but criticized her Freudian turn in Male and Female to glorifying women in their gender roles.
 gender
 Betty Friedan
 Margaret Mead
[missing]
 This theory claims that the whole is greater than its parts. Central to this theory is the law of pragnanz which claims that we try to find order and regularity in our sensations.
 This theory that emerged from Gestalt theory holds that there exist two of its namesake entities in memory, verbatim and gist. It also attempts to explain risky decision making.
 Gestalt theory was started in this city by Carl Stumpf, Max Wertheimer, and Wolfgang Kohler, who formed their namesake school.
 Gestaltism [or Gestalt theory]
 fuzzy-trace theory
 Berlin [or Berlin School]
[missing]
 Name this thought experiment proposed by Philippa Foot which asks whether it is ethical to flip a track switch to kill one man instead of five.
 As a form of consequentialism, this ethical theory would have the agent flip the switch to maximize the net happiness for the greatest number.
 Unlike consequentialism, this theory would hold that the agent must not act. Notably championed by Immanuel Kant, it derives morality from the nature of the action itself in relation to a norm, such as rules or duty.
 trolley problem
 utilitarianism
 deontology
[missing]
 Name this experiment was intended to show the effects of authority, but was aborted six days after its inception after guards began to physically and psychologically abuse other participants.
 This psychology professor conducted the Stanford prison experiment and wrote The Time Paradox.
 Zimbardo wrote this book after the Stanford prison experiment that seeks to explain why good people perform evil acts after being given authority. Its title refers to the biblical figure who becomes Satan.
 Stanford prison experiment
 Philip Zimbardo
 The Lucifer Effect 
[missing]
 This disorder alternates with mania in bipolar disorder. Its symptoms include social withdrawal, appetite and sleep changes, fatigue, and persistent disinterest or general sadness.
 Zoloft treats depression by selectively inhibiting the reuptake of this neurotransmitter. Derived from tryptophan, it has also been linked to schizophrenia and OCD.
 Mental disorders like schizophrenia and OCD are diagnosed via criteria set by this manual published by the American Psychiatric Association. Its fifth edition eliminated the bereavement exception for depression.
 depression [or major depressive disorder]
 serotonin [or 5-HT; or 5-hydroxytryptamine]
 DSM [or Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders]
[missing]
 This approach emphasizes the effect of unconscious factors and childhood experiences on current behaviors. Developers of this approach include Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan.
 Unconditional positive regard is a trait of a therapist who uses person-centered therapy, a technique developed by this humanistic psychologist. He is the author of On Becoming a Person.
 This therapy is based on the idea that the patient's own perception and thoughts, not the situation, causes anxiety. As a result, it focuses on modifying present dysfunctional thinking.
 psychoanalysis
 Carl Rogers
 cognitive-behavioral therapy [or CBT]
Answer these questions about propositions in the field of international relations theory, for 10 points each.
One longstanding IR theory claims that two nations with this kind of government will not fight each other. In the representative form of this government, citizens vote for legislators rather than deciding directly.
Mutually-assured destruction is a nuclear example of this concept, the way in which states protect themselves or their allies by threatening to retaliate with military force that no one wants.
Some IR theories compare national action to this setup in which two people repeatedly make a binary choice to work with or betray the other without knowing the other player’s choice.
democracy [or parliamentary democracies, or democratic governments]
deterrence theory
iterated prisoners’ dilemma &lt;MJ&gt;
This organization with thirteen regional branches uses open market operations to control the supply of money within the United States of America. For 10 points each:
Name this organization which has reduced interest rates to near zero under its current chairman, Ben Bernanke. It acts like America’s central banking system.
This man partly apologized for his deregulatory policies during and after the 2008 financial crisis. He served as Chairman of the Federal Reserve before Bernanke.
This rule indicates that a central bank should try to increase the nominal interest rate by more than one percentage point for every percentage point increase in inflation.
United States Federal Reserve System [prompt “The Fed”]
Alan Greenspan
Taylor rule &lt;AD&gt;
He wrote <em>The Economic Consequences of the Peace</em> after World War I to express doubts about the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points each:
Name this British economist whose General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money advocates for government spending to end recessions.
Keynes’s views were opposed by this school, which distrusted quantitative analysis and really liked Say’s law that supply creates demand, which Keynes hated. Its members included Ludwig von Mises and F. A. Hayek.
This quantity’s curve intersects with a 45-degree line on a Keynesian cross diagram. It is defined mathematically as C plus I plus G plus the difference of exports and imports.
John Maynard Keynes
Austrian school of economics
aggregate demand [do not accept or prompt “demand”] &lt;SSp/MJ&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about second-wave feminist thought.
This woman, the first president of the National Organization for Women, sparked a revival of feminism in the USA with her book The Feminine Mystique.
Many second-wave feminists drew on this French feminist and lover of Jean-Paul Sartre, who examined the existential problems posed by women’s subjection in The Second Sex.
A central thesis of The Second Sex is that women have been posited as this thing by men, who posit Man as the Subject. Hegel notes that the Self becomes an “I” when the mind relates itself to this conceptual being.
Betty Friedan [or Bettye Naomi Goldstein]
Simone de Beauvoir
the Other [or l’Autre] &lt;SSp&gt;
In one setup, this man used a teacher who told participants “You have no other choice, you must go on” after they asked to stop administering a memory test for the fourth time. For 10 points each:
Name this Yale psychologist, who found that two-thirds of participants would eventually press a button to kill another person in his Obedience to Authority study.
Milgram’s experiment made people think they were doing this to a “learner” behind the wall. In reality, this wasn’t happening and Milgram had paid an actor to cry out with each button press.
This Penn professor used real electric shocks on dogs to demonstrate his theory of “learned helplessness”. He works in “positive psychology,” which tries to correct the discipline’s focus on abnormality.
Stanley Milgram
giving electric shocks [accept any synonyms involving the use of harmful electric current]
Martin Seligman &lt;MJ&gt;
The author of <em>The Civilizing Process,</em> Norbert Elias, was a pioneer in this academic discipline, in which an early German practitioner described how the Protestant work ethic drove capitalist innovation. For 10 points each:
Name this social science practiced by Max Weber [VEY-burr], which seeks to analyze the nature of human interaction in large groups.
This pioneering sociologist authored Rules of the Sociological Method and analyzed anomie as one of four attitudes leading to the title phenomenon in his study Suicide.
This positivist Frenchman coined the term “sociology” and also wrote “Course in Positive Philosophy.” He devised a law of three mental stages which all societies undergo.
sociology [prompt “social theory”]
Emile Durkheim
August Comte &lt;SS&gt;
With the words having been translated, answer these questions about a language in order that you may receive points, for 10 points each:
This dead Indo-European language has five declensions of nouns and four conjugations for verbs. It is the basis for modern Romance languages such as Spanish, and its “vulgar” form became Italian.
In Latin, examples of this grammatical property for nouns include the nominative, which indicates a subject, the dative, which indicates indirect objects, and the ablative. Declension changes this property.
This Latin grammar construction is introduced by words such as “dixit.” In it, the subject is changed from nominative to accusative, relative-clause verbs become subjunctive, and the main verb becomes an infinitive.
Latin
case
indirect discourse [or indirect speech, or indirect quotation] &lt;MJ&gt;
Answer some questions about anthropologists studying the native peoples of North America, for 10 points each.
These people don’t actually have hundreds of words for snow, ruining an example used by Benjamin Whorf to show how language influences thought. They have autonomy in Canada’s Nunavut province.
This female anthropologist described the “personality writ large” of the Kwakiutl and Pueblo peoples in Patterns of Culture, and wrote a study of Japan for the US Office of War Information.
Like the Omaha and Crow, Lewis Henry Morgan studied the kinship system of these people, in which brothers of one’s father are also called fathers. They identify themselves as “People of the Longhouse.”
Inuit [prompt the derogatory term “Eskimos”; prompt “Yupik;” prompt “Inupiat”]
Ruth Fulton Benedict
Iroquois League [or Iroquois Confederacy; or Haudenosaunee] &lt;AD&gt;
The Wade-Giles system of writing this language in Roman letters is widely disliked. For 10 points each:
Name this tonal language whose pictographic characters underwent simplification in the mid-20th century. Its dominant dialect is the most commonly-spoken language in the world.
Thousands of Chinese characters are made up of these smaller units, of which there are only about two hundred. They can help inform semantic meaning of the whole character.
This is the Japanese name for Chinese characters used in certain contexts, though Japanese has syllabaries of phonetic characters as well.
Mandarin Chinese [or Zhōngwén or Hànyŭ; prompt “Mandarin”; prompt “Putonghua”]
radicals [or bùshǒu]
kanji &lt;SSp&gt;
Answer these questions about fundamentals of microeconomics, for 10 points each.
Rational economic actors seek to maximize this measure of satisfaction. Increased consumption of goods, services, and leisure are classically associated with higher levels of this measure.
This graph charts the different bundles of goods and services that each provide the consumer with the exact same level of utility. For a perfectly rational consumer, they are perfectly convex and have negative slope.
When rational consumers’ incomes drop, they’re forced onto a lower indifference curve and consume more of this type of good with negative income elasticity of demand. Examples might include instant noodles.
utility
indifference curve
inferior goods &lt;MHH&gt;
Answer these questions about linguistics, for 10 points each.
This MIT professor revolutionized the study of syntax and posited the existence of a “universal grammar” with which children acquire language. He expresses his leftist political views in books such as Manufacturing Consent.
Chomsky’s work obsoleted the Course in General Linguistics by this 19th-century intellectual, who also wrote on the arbitrariness of the linguistic signifier.
Saussure also put forth the laryngeal theory of this language family’s “Proto-” ancestor, which in turn underwent changes to become Proto-Germanic and Proto-Italic.
Avram Noam Chomsky
Ferdinand de Saussure
Indo-European language family [or Proto-Indo-European; prompt “PIE”] &lt;IP&gt;
Bob runs a video game company whose products are so addictive that he needs capital to expand. For 10 points each, help him by answering these questions about the financial markets.
Bob can sell equity shares on the open market because these entities underwrote him. Examples of them include Goldman Sachs and the Citi arm of Citigroup.
Bob’s shares are bought and sold on this fully electronic public stock exchange, second behind the New York Stock Exchange in terms of market capitalization. Its namesake Composite stock index hovers around 3000.
After Bob gets underwritten, investment banks sell his shares directly to investors in this type of sale, held on the first day that his stock can be publicly traded.
investment bank [prompt “bank”; prompt “financial services company;” prompt “securities firm”]
NASDAQ [or National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations]
initial public offering [or IPO; prompt “launch”] &lt;MHH&gt;
This thinker’s work forms the basis of the Myers-Briggs personality test, which among other things measures introversion and extraversion. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist and alchemy fan. He broke with Freud and proposed the collective unconscious.
The collective unconscious is composed of many of these symbolic psychic images. They include the Shadow and the Persona.
To Jung, archetypes explain the meaning of these narratives and their similarity across all societies. Joseph Campbell’s The Hero with a Thousand Faces traces their similarity to a “mono” one about the hero’s journey.
Carl Gustav Jung
archetypes
myths [or mythology; prompt “fables,” “folk tales,” “legends,” or “folklore”] &lt;SSp&gt;
The fiat type of this entity derives its value from its declaration as "legal tender" by the government. For 10  points each:
Give this general term for an object that can be accepted as payment for a good or service. Most of its M1 ("M  one") supply is held in banks.
The Federal Reserve sets this minimum amount of money that a bank must retain at the end of each day. It is  currently 10% of the bank's net transactions. The money multiplier is the reciprocal of this quantity.
Keynesian economics describes this situation in which increasing the money supply fails to affect near-zero  interest rates, because consumers hoard their money in expectation of deflation. Japan experienced it in the 1990s.
money [do not accept "currency"]
reserve requirement [accept required reserve ratio, required reserve rate or liquidity ratio]
liquidity trap
This man helped record the Yahi language from its last living member, a man called Ishi. For 10 points each:
Name this Yale linguist who created a comprehensive classification of Native American languages for the Encyclopedia Britannica. He inspired his student Benjamin Whorf to develop the theory of linguistic relativity.
In an influential study in linguistic relativity, Berlin and Kay studied different languages' words for these concepts, classifying English as "Stage VII" since it has separate words for purple, pink, orange, and gray.
Sapir was a student of this German-American "father of anthropology" known for his studies of the Kwa-kwa-ka'wa-kw people of Vancouver Island, whom he called the Kwakiutl.
Edward Sapir
colors
Franz Boas 
As income rises, it shifts outward for normal goods and inward for inferior goods. For 10 points each:
Name this usually downward-sloping curve that plots the amount of a good that consumers will buy at a given  price.
The slope of the demand curve is related to this measure, defined as the ratio of percentage change in demand  to percentage change in price. It is 0 for a vertical demand curve and infinite for a horizontal demand curve.
Whether the price elasticity of demand is over or under 1 determines whether raising the price will raise or  lower this quantity, a firm's total income from the sale of a product. This quantity minus total cost equals profit.
demand curve
price elasticity of demand
total revenue
For 10 points each, name some things about conditioning:
The inability to avoid adverse events can result in this feeling of futility. Even if the opportunity to escape is  reintroduced, the learner will often still resign themselves.
In this questionably ethical experiment, Watson and Rayner aversively conditioned a baby to fear rats and other  furry things.
The most notable classical conditioning experiment was performed by this Russian psychologist, in which he  conditioned dogs to salivate at the sound of a bell.
learned helplessness
Little Albert experiment
Ivan Pavlov
Many people answer wrongly when asked whether there are more English words that start with K or more words  with K as their third letter. For 10 points each:
This heuristic is exemplified by picking the first answer even though more English words have K as their third  letter. This bias makes people think an event is more probable based on how readily an example comes to mind.
This other cognitive bias is the tendency for people to pay attention to information which supports their  preconcieved notions and screen out contradictory information.
Like confirmation bias, this effect is a self-serving bias in which people tend to judge things that have happened  as more predictable than they were, leading to claims like "I knew it all along!"
availability heuristic
confirmation bias
hindsight bias
Many people answer wrongly when asked whether there are more English words that start with K or more words  with K as their third letter. For 10 points each:
This heuristic is exemplified by picking the first answer even though more English words have K as their third  letter. This bias makes people think an event is more probable based on how readily an example comes to mind.
This other cognitive bias is the tendency for people to pay attention to information which supports their  preconcieved notions and screen out contradictory information.
Like confirmation bias, this effect is a self-serving bias in which people tend to judge things that have happened  as more predictable than they were, leading to claims like "I knew it all along!"
availability heuristic
confirmation bias
hindsight bias
Robert Graves subtitled his The White Goddess "a Historical Grammar of Poetic" this, and Roland Barthes examined "The World of Wrestling" and "Toys" in a book named for a set of these. For 10 points each:
Name this concept whose Zuni variety titles an anthropological survey by Ruth Benedict.
This French anthropologist developed his structuralist approach to myth in Mythologiques, which includes The Raw and the Cooked. He also wrote the memoir Tristes Tropiques and The Elementary Structures of Kinship.
Otto Rank uses psychoanalytic methods in his The Myth of the Birth of this.mythological figure, who undergoes the "monomyth" quest and is with a Thousand Faces in a Joseph Campbell work.
mythology [or mythologies]
Claude LÃ©vi-Strauss
the hero
This German author of The Religion of China, The Religion of India, and Economy and Society delineated rational-legal, traditional, and charismatic types of authority. For 10 points each:
Name this sociologist who suggested that Calvinism was responsible for the appearance of a novel economic system in Northern Europe.
Weber proposed that the Protestant ethic was closely related to "the spirit of" this economic system based on free markets, which communists oppose.
In Politics as a Vocation, Weber defined this political entity as a holder of monopoly on the legitimate use of force in a given area.
Max Weber
Capitalism
the state [accept Staat; do not accept or prompt any synonyms]
