Full and lengthened ablaut are differentiated in the first and second of nearly four thousand rules for this language’s grammar formulated by Pāṇini (“PA-nih-nee”). For 10 points each:
Name this language, whose similarity to Latin and Greek led William Jones to theorize Proto-Indo-European. It remains in use as a liturgical language for Hindus.
Frits Stahl argued that Pāṇini created an early grammar of this type, labelled Type 1 in the Chomsky hierarchy. Non-terminals cannot be moved at will in these grammars, so they are more general than their “free” counterpart.
Grammars vary between these general linguistic systems that encompass languages, registers, and styles. This four-letter word is prefixed with “idio-” when speaking of one person’s speech, or “dia-” when discussing examples like Cockney and AAVE.
Sanskrit
context-sensitive grammar [accept context-sensitive languages]
lects [accept language varieties; accept dialects or idiolects or sociolects] &lt;Social Science&gt;
This psychologist founded the Heroic Imagination Project, inspired in part by his most famous experiment. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who discussed Abu Ghraib (“grayb”) in light of that experiment in The Lucifer Effect. His future wife Christina Maslach (“MAZZ-lock”) intervened and ended that unethical experiment after six days.
Ron Jones’s Third Wave Experiment was conducted in Palo Alto, which is home to this university. The Third Wave Experiment is often compared to Zimbardo’s “prison experiment” at this university.
This Stanford graduate’s research on the “misinformation effect” has saved many from wrongful imprisonment on account of faulty eyewitness testimony. She co-developed the “Lost in the Mall” technique with James Coan (“KO-in”) to study false memories.
Philip Zimbardo
Stanford University
Elizabeth Loftus &lt;Social Science&gt;
This vessel was christened with an alternate name for the god Viracocha. For 10 points each:
Name this balsa-wood boat on which a research team led by experimental archaeologist Thor Heyerdahl successfully sailed to the Tuamotu Islands.
Heyerdahl voyaged on Kon-Tiki to prove that these people could have settled the islands of Polynesia. More conventional archaeologists studying this civilization have dug around Cusco and Machu Picchu.
This thinker denied that the Kon-Tiki voyage implied more than a possibility of ancient trans-Pacific movement when discussing the Nambikwara in Triste Tropiques (“TREEST tro-PEEK”). This Belgian-born anthropologist described mythological thought in terms of bricolage in The Savage Mind.
Kon-Tiki
Incans [or Incan Empire; accept Quechua or Quecha]
Claude Lévi-Strauss &lt;Social Science&gt;
This economist’s failed prediction that the stock market had reached a “permanently high plateau” just before the 1929 crash led him to propose that recessions are caused by “debt deflation.” For 10 points each:
Name this American economist whose namesake equation states the nominal interest rate is the sum of the real interest rate and the inflation rate.
Fisher was a proponent of this school, whose microeconomic ideas are fused with Keynesian (“CANE-zee-in”) macro in a namesake synthesis. It is named for updating the ideas of John Stuart Mill and Adam Smith.
The transition from classical to neoclassical economics was a “revolution” named for this adjective. This adjective is used to describe the change in utility from consuming an additional unit of a good or service.
Irving Fisher
neoclassical economics
marginal revolution [or marginalism; accept marginal utility] &lt;Social Science&gt;
Constituents of this book’s title group include the “Warlords,” the “Corporate Rich,” and “the Metropolitan 400.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 book by C. Wright Mills, sometimes considered a counterpart to White Collar. It claims that the average citizen is powerless against the title conglomeration of political, military, and business leaders.
Robert Dahl wrote Who Governs? in part as a rebuttal to The Power Elite; for it, Dahl studied the polyarchic government of the surrounding town of New Haven while working at this Ivy League university in Connecticut.
The emphasis on bureaucracy in The Power Elite parallels this earlier book, which contrasts a “light cloak” and “shell as hard as steel” to discuss one of many modern socioeconomic consequences of northern European Calvinism.
The Power Elite
Yale University
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism [or Die protestantische Ethik und der Geist des Kapitalismus] (by Max Weber) &lt;Social Science&gt;
A field named for these things is often divided into the social and the medical model of its subject, though scholars still debate whether person-first or identity-first language better fits its social model. For 10 points each:
Name these things studied in the queer-influenced crip theory. Scholars differentiate impairments from these things, which are covered by the ADA and may include paraplegy and blindness.
This term encompasses such disabilities as chronic pain, dyslexia, and rheumatoid arthritis, which are not immediately noticeable to others.
Disabled persons may be especially subject to this bias studied by Melvin Lerner, which is the belief that others tend to get the consequences they “deserve.” In a Linda Carli study on this “hypothesis,” respondents blamed the victim more when they heard a “bad” ending to the presented story.
disabilities [accept disability studies; accept word forms like disabled]
invisible disabilities [or hidden disabilities]
just world hypothesis [accept just world effect or just world phenomenon] &lt;Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about Irish political scientist Benedict Anderson, for 10 points each.
Anderson is best-known for arguing that early European incarnations of this type of ideology were spurred on by “print capitalism.” Ideologies of this type promote the governance of a region by namesake people groups, even if those areas are not yet countries.
Anderson’s book on nationalism is named for Imagined places of this type. Ferdinand Tönnies (“TUR-neese”) used the word Gemeinschaft (“guh-MINE-shoft”) when differentiating these things from societies.
Anderson wrote a 2013 book on The Age of this phenomenon, whose cultural consequences are discussed in Arjun Appadurai’s Modernity at Large. Popular books on this world-wide process include Thomas Friedman’s The World is Flat.
nationalism [or word forms like nationalists]
community [or communities; accept Imagined Communities; accept Community and Society]
globalization [or word forms like globalize; accept The Age of Globalization] &lt;Social Science&gt;
An essay by this man opens by declaring “The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color-line.” For 10 points each:
Name this African-American thinker who collected his essays on race in The Souls of Black Folk. He came to oppose Booker T. Washington’s Atlanta Compromise and advocated for civil rights advances in the early 1900s.
To oppose Washington’s accommodation of white rule, Du Bois founded this short-lived civil rights organization named for the “mighty current” of change it hoped to inspire. It was later absorbed by the NAACP (“N-double-A-C-P”).
In a 1935 book on this period, Du Bois challenged the racialized “Dunning School” perspective and defended African-Americans’ role in it. Eric Foner has extensively cited Du Bois in his studies of this period.
W. E. B. Du Bois (“doo boyce”) [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois]
Niagara Movement
Reconstruction [accept Black Reconstruction in America] &lt;American History&gt;
August and Friedrich von Schlegel divided languages into analytic and synthetic typologies based on patterns of the structures studied in this subfield. For 10 points each:
Name this linguistic subfield whose subjects include the use of affixes in word formation. This subfield studies the internal structure of words.
Jean Berko Gleason’s “wug test” studied which morpheme children would add to the made-up word “wug” to give it this property. This property is contrasted with the singular and, in some languages, the dual.
Fusional languages such as English often use just one morpheme to indicate a number of grammatical features, so they apply this type of inflection, which is specific to adjectives and nouns, but not verbs.
morphology
plural
declension [or word forms like declining] &lt;Social Science&gt;
This statement is seemingly undermined by the existence of general gluts, a phenomenon that it implies to be impossible. For 10 points each:
Name this economic statement. Debate persists over the accuracy of the formulation of this statement by Keynes (“canes”) as “supply creates its own demand.”
Advocates of Say’s law are often followers of this economic philosophy with a two-word name. This philosophy asserts that the state should largely let the market be and minimize intervention.
Say’s law may imply that this thing is completely neutral. Its “narrow” definition only includes currency used as legal tender.
Say’s law
laissez-faire (“LESS-ay-FAIR”)
money [accept M0, M1, or M2] &lt;Social Science&gt;
This organization wrote a controversial 1993 report stating that the successful countries called the “Asian Tigers” were rapidly developing due to free-market, neoliberal policies. For 10 points each:
Name this organization that comprises the IBRD and IDA. It was founded at the Bretton Woods Conference alongside the IMF, with which it works to loan money and give aid to developing countries.
Despite the name, this Swedish thinker’s Asian Drama only focuses on South Asia. Ralph Bunche was the main researcher for this economist’s An American Dilemma, a book on “the Negro problem” cited in Brown v. Board.
Asian Drama is subtitled “An Inquiry into [this condition] of Nations.” A book by Amartya Sen pairs this condition with famine, and intro to sociology classes often discuss the “feminization” of this condition, in which it disproportionately affects women.
World Bank
Gunnar Myrdal
poverty [accept An Inquiry into the Poverty of Nations or Poverty and Famine; accept feminization of poverty] &lt;Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about mothers, for 10 points each.
Greylag geese usually learn behaviors from their mothers in an early critical period for this phenomenon. In one example of this phenomenon, geese followed Konrad Lorenz because he was the first thing they saw upon hatching.
Stephen Suomi has controversially continued Harry Harlow’s research on maternal deprivation in these animals, particularly their Old World rhesus species.
Harlow’s work partly inspired John Bowlby’s theory on this behavior, in which children seek parental figures to quell their alarm and anxiety. Mary Ainsworth’s “Strange Situation” experiment classified infants into “secure,” “anxious-avoidant,” and “anxious-ambivalent” styles of this behavior.
imprinting
monkeys [or macaques; accept Cercopithecidae; accept Macaca]
attachment theory [accept attachment styles] &lt;Social Science&gt;
Eagly and Karau (“KAH-rao”) theorized that people will be evaluated according to how well they seem to fit into these things in a study of prejudice against female leaders. For 10 points each:
Name these sets of behaviors attached to certain jobs, genders, and other situations. People may emulate “model” persons named for them when “playing” make-believe games such as House or RPGs.
Role theory adopts the idea of people as “actors” from this symbolic interactionist’s dramaturgical model. This sociologist wrote on that subject in The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life.
Labelling theory asserts that criminals fall into the role of a criminal because they believe that they are a “criminal.” In this situation with a three-word name, a person’s belief that X will happen causes X to happen.
social roles [accept role congruity theory; accept role models; accept role-playing games; accept role theory]
Erving Goffman
self-fulfilling prophecy (also coined by Merton) &lt;Social Science&gt;
“Compensation” was first used in a psychological context to explain how sufferers cope with this condition. For 10 points each:
Name this condition theorized by Alfred Adler, which is now referred to as “lack of covert self-esteem.” People who were constantly criticized as a child are especially prone to this complex.
Adler’s individual psychology builds upon this philosopher’s idea of the “will of power,” as elucidated in his books Beyond Good and Evil and Thus Spake Zarathustra.
This psychologist suggested that humans are instead motivated by a “will to meaning,” which is used in his existential logotherapy. This thinker introduced that idea in a book whose first half is a Holocaust memoir.
inferiority complex
Friedrich Nietzsche (“NEE-chuh”)
Viktor Frankl (The book is Man’s Search for Meaning.) &lt;Social Science&gt;
Stratum III (“three”), the highest in John B. Carroll’s namesake model, contains only this construct. For 10 points each:
Name this construct proposed by Charles Spearman central to his “two-factor theory” of a certain ability. The Raven Progressive Matrices test “loads onto,” or heavily correlates with, this psychometric factor.
A controversy over the heritability of IQ, and more specifically the g-factor, erupted on account of a Murray and Herrnstein book named for this shape. IQ’s normal distribution is graphed as a “curve” named for this object.
This thinker attacked craniometry and IQ testing in general for trying to “reify” intelligence under the framework of biological determinism in The Mismeasure of Man. This paleontologist also wrote The Panda’s Thumb.
g-factor [or general intelligence factor; or general mental ability; accept g-loading; prompt on intelligence; prompt on IQ]
The Bell Curve [or bells]
Stephen Jay Gould &lt;Social Science&gt;
The earliest version of this model assumes two countries producing two commodities, and only accounted for two factors, so it was nicknamed the “2 × 2 × 2 model.” For 10 points each:
Name this Stockholm School economic model. It predicts that capital-abundant countries will export capital-intensive goods and import labor-intensive goods, while labor-abundant countries will do the opposite.
The Heckscher–Ohlin model does not explain why this capital-abundant country imports capital-intensive goods, a paradox named for Leontief. This country is the world’s largest importer, but lost the title of largest exporter to China in 2013.
Factors may not be substituted for one another in a function of this type named for Leontief. Cobb and Douglas name another popular example of this class of functions that relate such namesake factors as capital and labor to total output.
Heckscher–Ohlin model [or H–O model; or Heckscher–Ohlin–Samuelson model; or Heckscher–Ohlin–Vanek model]
United States [or USA; or the United States of America]
production functions [accept Leontief production function; accept Cobb-Douglas production function] &lt;Social Science&gt;
The conflict of “immersion” and “emersion” following an “encounter” is explained in William Cross’s model of identity relating to this characteristic. For 10 points each:
Identify this characteristic. An “association test” created at Harvard measures the response time of participants pairing negative and positive words with people who differ in this characteristic.
In an experiment cited in the Brown v. Board decision, two psychologists with this surname found that all races of children did not prefer dolls that resembled African-Americans.
In an experiment examining a type of “threat” named for this concept, black students performed worse on a GRE after being reminded that it was an intelligence test. This term refers to generalizations about broad groups.
race [accept black people or African-American people or white people or Caucasian people; accept skin color; prompt on color]
Clark [accept Kenneth Clark or Maimie Clark]
stereotypes [accept stereotype threat] &lt;RK, Social Science: Psych&gt;
This author’s recent book <em>21 Lessons for the 21st Century</em> suggests adopting the Scandinavian approach of protecting “workers, not jobs.” For 10 points each:
Name this historian whose book Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind postulates that humanity underwent a “cognitive revolution” about 70,000 years ago that allowed people to live in an “intersubjective reality.”
Harari postulates that a second “revolution” took place with the invention of this practice during the Neolithic period. Domestication of plants enabled this practice at such sites as Çatalhöyük (“cha-TALL-hoo-yook”).
Harari’s work draws on discoveries made by the Leakey family at this paleoanthropological site in Tanzania, such as the stone tools made by Paranthropus boisei (“puh-RAN-thruh-puss BOY-say”) and Homo habilis.
Yuval Harari (“yoo-VALL ha-RA-ree”)
agriculture [or farming; prompt on cultivation]
Olduvai Gorge &lt;WA, Social Science: Socio/Anthro&gt;
So-called “induced,” “latent,” and “pent-up” examples of this quantity are often said to be “activated” by changes in the availability. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. Functions for this quantity are typically downward-sloping, with the exception of situations named for Sir Robert Giffen, and are described by the Slutsky equation.
In economics, the most commonly studied type of induced demand is the increase in this phenomenon that can result from added capacity; examples of such increases include Braess’s (“brass’s”) paradox.
The “price” of traffic can be thought of as consisting of both monetary costs, via extra fuel wasted, and this other sort of cost, which refers to the most valuable alternative choice that a consumer could have made with their time and money had they not been in traffic.
demand [accept demand curve]
traffic [or congestion; accept road traffic or network traffic]
opportunity cost &lt;WA, Social Science: Econ&gt;
The outcome of a failure of this activity is referred to as a BATNA (“bat-nuh”). For 10 points each:
Give this activity. A “principled” approach to this activity is advocated by Roger Fisher and William Ury in Getting to Yes, which suggests such strategies as “Focus on interests, not positions.”
A somewhat similar theory of negotiation is called this psychologist’s namesake “argument” and suggests using empathetic listening to find common ground. This psychologist invented client-centered therapy.
Negotiation can be difficult in this sort of situation, in which the gain of one party implies an equal loss on the part of the other party. Games named for having this property are Pareto-optimal.
negotiation [or negotiating; accept principled negotiation; do not accept or prompt on other answers]
Carl Rogers [accept Rogerian argument]
zero-sum situation [or zero-sum game; prompt on Pareto optimality until “Pareto” is read] &lt;WA, Social Science: Socio/Anthro&gt;
In the common “first-price” variety of these events, the price of the item in question is bid up until it is sold to the highest bidder. For 10 points each:
Name these events in which items are sold publicly.
In a type of auction named for this non-British country, an item’s price is instead repeatedly lowered until a bidder is willing to pay. In economics, this country’s namesake “disease” is an alternate name for the so-called “resource curse.”
This term refers to the minimum price at which an item may be sold at a Dutch auction. By the revenue equivalence theorem, first- and second-price auctions will have identical outcomes if this price is the same for both.
auctions
Netherlands [accept Holland; accept Dutch auction or Dutch disease]
reserve price [or reservation price] &lt;WA, Social Science: Econ&gt;
This language was invented by the Polish academic L. L. Zamenhof, who was inspired by the polyglot nature of his boyhood hometown. For 10 points each:
Name this widely spoken constructed language. Its draws much of its vocabulary from Romance languages, including its name, which sounds a lot like the Spanish word for “hoping.”
This earlier attempt at an international auxiliary language was invented by the priest Johann Schleyer. This language, whose name means “world talk,” was likely doomed by its excessive use of umlauts.
Somehow, the child abuse authorities never went after linguist d’Armond Speers for teaching his son this fictional tongue as a first language. The opera ’u’ (“ooh”) is written in this language created by Marc Okrand, whose second-language speakers include Saavik.
Esperanto
Volapük
Klingon &lt;JM, Other Academic&gt;
Marketers often take advantage of “cognitive” examples of these phenomena, such as by framing in terms of loss instead of gain. For 10 points each:
Give this term for systematic distortions in thinking, such as only seeking out information that confirms one’s established opinions.
One bias often exploited in marketing is this effect, in which a positive judgment about a person or organization in one domain distorts perceptions in other domains. Nisbett and Wilson’s study of this effect found that, if a teacher was friendly to students, their European accent would be considered appealing.
The halo effect was named by this psychologist, who created a number of puzzle boxes to study animals and postulated the “law of effect” regarding behavior conditioning.
cognitive biases [accept confirmation bias]
halo effect [or halo distortion]
Edward Thorndike &lt;WA, Social Science: Psych&gt;
Arguments against attempts to “renew” these places are presented in a book by Jane Jacobs about the “life and death” of “Great American” ones. For 10 points each:
Give these locations that are often modeled as concentric zones around a central business district.
Jacobs also criticized this theorist, whose concept of a “radiant city” was the inspiration for the design of Chandigarh (“CHON-dee-gar”). In a treatise, this theorist advocates for roof gardens and the use of pilotis.
This sociologist invited Jacobs to contribute essays to Fortune magazine, after which the essays were added to the book Exploding Metropolis. Earlier, Fortune sponsored interviews of CEOs for this sociologist’s best-known book, which studies conformity in large companies in the 1950s.
cities [accept city or urban areas, locations, renewal, etc.]
Le Corbusier (“luh cor-booz-YAY”)
William Whyte (That book is The Organization Man.) &lt;WA, Social Science: Socio/Anthro&gt;
A website called a “machine” of these things has been a godsend for students everywhere and automatically generates them in Chicago, Turabian, and Harvard formats, among others. For 10 points each:
Give this term for a reference in a bibliography to published or unpublished sources. An index of these things is provided by Google Scholar.
This letter of the alphabet names an index that measures the number of papers published with at least that many citations. Michel Foucault has the highest value for this index, because 280 of his papers have at least 280 citations.
Citations are often said to exemplify a “rich get richer” effect named for this book of the Bible. Robert Merton coined the name for that effect in reference to this Biblical book’s “parable of the talents.”
citations [accept Citation Machine]
h-index
Book of Matthew [accept Matthew effect] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
Trees representing this set of rules may “branch” ternarily in the case of prepositions that take both direct and indirect objects, but are only binary branching in the stricter X-bar theory of it. For 10 points each:
Give this linguistic term for the collective set of rules of how words are put together to form constituents, such as clauses and sentences.
Phrases named for this part of speech, such as “that boring linguistics question in EFT,” may include determiners, such as the word “that.” This part of speech can be marked by definite articles such as “the.”
This theory studies how syntax constrains the interpretation of noun phrases. In this theory, antecedents to pronouns form “domains” that link them with other co-indexed constituents across the branches of a syntax tree.
syntax [accept syntactic theory]
nouns [accept noun phrases; prompt on NP]
binding theory [prompt on government and binding theory; do not accept or prompt on “government”] &lt;JM, Social Science: Linguistics&gt;
Bill Clinton fiercely advocated for China’s entry into this organization, which occurred in December 2001. For 10 points each:
Name this international organization founded in 1995 that sets the rules of commerce. It replaced an earlier framework called GATT.
WTO rules allow countervailing duties to be imposed on parties that engage in this practice of selling goods in a foreign market for significantly less than “fair market value.”
The WTO’s Uruguay Round dealt with this commodity, which is subject to the Berne Three-Step Test in several international treaties. In the US, most cases brought before the Federal Circuit concern this commodity.
WTO [or World Trade Organization]
dumping
intellectual property [or IP; accept patents; do not accept or prompt on “property”] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
The University of Pennsylvania’s Adam Grant argues that people who exhibit a mix of these traits can have advantages as salespeople. For 10 points each:
Give these two personality traits that are represented by the contrasting “E” and “I” in the Myers–Briggs classification.
This psychologist, who popularized the terms “extrovert” and “introvert,” also theorized a hidden aspect of personality called the “shadow.”
Extraversion is one of the five major components of the Big Five model, along with openness, conscientiousness, and agreeableness. The fifth is this trait, whose effects on personality were studied in an influential book by Karen Horney (“HORN-eye”).
extroverted AND introverted (Adam Grant’s idea is that of an “ambivert.”)
Carl Jung
neuroticism [accept The Neurotic Personality; prompt on neurosis] &lt;WA, Social Science: Psych&gt;
The namesake “doctrine” of this market, developed by the Stockholm School, asserts that its supply and demand functions are determined by a combination of bank credit and savings. For 10 points each:
Give the common two-word name for this market. In many textbooks, this two-word term refers to a market in which the interest rate is determined only by the supply and demand for investment.
Tapping into the loanable funds market is one method by which firms raise money to purchase this factor of production, which is one of a firm’s major inputs along with land and labor. It’s often symbolized K.
A common example of “crowding out” in the loanable funds market is caused by an increase in this quantity. Modulating the level of this quantity is the typical Keynesian (“KANE-zee-in”) approach to combat recessions.
loanable funds market [prompt on funds]
capital
government spending [or government expenditure or government consumption; do not accept or prompt on “spending” or “expenditure” or “consumption”] &lt;WA, Social Science: Econ&gt;
This book concludes with an examination of the “Future Condition of Three Races,” in which it notes that General Jackson would “infallibly… forfeit his political station” if he sought to become a despot. For 10 points each:
Name this two-volume treatise, published in 1835 and 1840 after its author was sponsored by the July Monarchy to study foreign prison systems.
Democracy in America is a book by this French political scientist.
A less positive view of America was taken by this Victorian, who promoted the abolitionist cause in Britain through her book Society in America. This pioneering female sociologist wrote Illustrations of Political Economy and translated much of Auguste Comte’s work into English.
Democracy in America [or On Democracy in America or De La Démocratie en Amérique]
Alexis de Tocqueville
Harriet Martineau &lt;WA, Social Science: Political&gt;
In the context of valuing companies, this two-word phrase denotes potential value that a company may have above that of its assets and its goodwill. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word phrase that, in science, refers to basic research that is conducted without taking into account any practical application.
One major product of blue sky research was this British computer scientist’s research into communications for CERN, which led to the creation of hypertext. As a result, he is credited with inventing the World Wide Web.
About 80 percent of medicines approved by this US federal agency can be traced back to basic research, although it takes on average 31 years from when the research was conducted until this agency’s approval.
blue sky [or blue skies; accept blue sky research; prompt on sky]
Tim Berners-Lee [or TimBL]
FDA [or Food and Drug Administration] &lt;WA, Other Academic&gt;
A popular textbook used in and titled for this interdisciplinary field is by David Buss, much of whose research concerns the impact of choosing short-term versus long-term mating strategies. For 10 points each:
Name this field. Its founders included the husband-and-wife team John Tooby and Leda Cosmides (“KOZ-mid-eez”), who expounded a critique of the “standard social science model,” or SSSM, in their book The Adapted Mind.
This Harvard psychologist and linguist criticized the title concept from the SSSM in The Blank Slate. This author’s books for a popular audience include The Language Instinct.
Evolutionary psychology is ultimately rooted in this book by Charles Darwin, in which he propounded the theory of evolution by natural selection.
evolutionary psychology [or evo psych; prompt on psychology or evolution]
Steven Pinker
The Origin of Species [or On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life] &lt;WA, Social Science: Psych&gt;
Much of William H. Riker’s work applies concepts from this field of social science to politics. For 10 points each:
Name this field of applied mathematical social science whose common tools include backwards induction and payoff matrices.
Riker’s books applying game theory include one on the “theory of” these entities that uses game theory to postulate a “size principle” to limit the number of their members. Cyert and March postulated that elites form “dominant” examples of these entities to control firms and governments.
Another of Riker’s books uses game theory to study the “calculus” of this action and adapts a model proposed by Anthony Downs. Systems for deciding this action’s outcomes include “first-past-the-post.”
game theory [prompt on games]
political coalitions [or dominant coalitions; accept The Theory of Political Coalitions; prompt on alliance or blocs; do not accept or prompt on “lobbies” or “cliques”]
voting [or electing officials or election; accept The Calculus of Voting] &lt;WA, Social Science: Political&gt;
William Nordhaus’s DICE model was created to assess the costs and benefits of proposed policies to deal with this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Give this phenomenon, the subject of the Kyoto Protocol. In 2018, Nordhaus argued against a “special report” on this phenomenon, claiming that the report’s proposals would make the world poorer than “doing nothing.”
This policy for reducing the social cost of climate change imposes a ceiling on the amount of carbon emissions and allows people to purchase and sell credits that give them permission to emit.
The social cost of a ton of carbon controversially varies from 1 dollar to over 500 dollars based on how this variable is calculated. The net present value of a cash payment is inversely proportional to [read slowly] “one plus this quantity, all raised to t,” where t is how many years in the future you get paid.
climate change [or global warming; prompt on climate]
cap-and-trade [prompt on emissions trading; do not accept or prompt on “carbon tax”]
discount rate [prompt on interest rate or annual interest rate; prompt on discount factor] &lt;WA, Social Science: Econ&gt;
Social scientists have tried to draw sociologically significant lines through various spectrums and continents. For 10 points each:
Thomas Talhelm found that a “Huai–Qin line” divides China into the rice-dominated, collectivist south and the individualistic north, whose primary crops are wheat and this hardy grain that can grow in low rainfall.
This country’s Middle Belt divides its Muslim north from its Christian south and has seen violence between Christian Berom farmers and Muslim Fulani pastoralists. The Middle Belt also contains its capital of Abuja.
In 1965, John Hajnal (“HYE-nall”) drew his namesake line from St. Petersburg to Trieste, splitting Europe into two regions characterized by different social patterns and customs with regard to this practice.
millet (“MILL-it”)
Nigeria
marriage [accept nuptials or nuptiality or wedlock; prompt on fertility or child-rearing] &lt;WA, Geography&gt;
This book describes how young girls are instructed in ngweko, a practice of “platonic fondling” meant to avoid pregnancy. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropological text that is dedicated to “the dispossessed youth of Africa,” an ethnography of the Kikuyu people.
This man wrote Facing Mount Kenya. This student of Bronislaw Malinowski later become the first president of Kenya.
Facing Mount Kenya controversially supported this practice, so long as it was performed by a “trained western scholar.” Alice Walker’s book Warrior Marks contains interviews of women who experienced this practice.
Facing Mount Kenya
Jomo Kenyatta
female genital mutilation [prompt on partial answer; accept female circumcision; accept infibulation; accept clitoridectomy; accept female genital cutting; accept FGM; prompt on circumcision] &lt; Brad McLain | Social Science &gt;
This quantity measures how much consumers are willing to buy at a particular price. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity whose price elasticity is usually negative. It is usually contrasted with supply.
The price elasticity of demand is positive for this type of good named for a Scottish economist. In this type of inferior good, the income effect is greater than the substitution effect.
Description acceptable. Giffen goods are inferior goods, which means that they have this relationship with income. The price of a good and the demand of a complementary good have this relationship with each other.
demand [or quantity demanded]
Giffen goods
inverse [accept descriptions of “inversely proportional” such as “one going up when the other goes down”] &lt; Sarod Nori | Social Science &gt;
The Cournot-Nash model for this type of market assumes just two major competitors. For 10 points each:
Give the name for a market dominated by a small number of sellers.
When the sellers in an oligopoly agree to work together for reasons such as increasing prices, they are referred to with this legal term -- which has almost nothing to do with drug smuggling.
Businesses in an oligopoly act asymmetrically to price increases and drops from competitors, giving the market a demand curve described by this adjective, reflecting the discontinuity in the curve.
oligopoly [accept duopoly]
cartel
kinked [accept descriptions of kink-having] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
Name some social experiments that were performed in a certain state. For 10 points each:
In this experiment, participants pick from four decks of cards that give or take away money, with some decks being more likely to take money than others. On average, people begin to develop stress sensors when hovering over so-called “bad decks” within 10 trials in this experiment.
Wendell Johnson and Mary Tudor performed this unethical 1939 experiment in Davenport, Iowa. In this experiment, some stuttering orphans were given speech therapy and some were instead mocked.
In Randall, Iowa, Jane Elliott performed a classroom exercise to demonstrate the effects of this bias to children. In her activity, Elliott divided the class by eye color rather than skin color to demonstrate this bias.
Iowa gambling task [or IGT]
Monster Study
racism [prompt on prejudice] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
The writing system of the Cherokee language is a syllabary; thus, each symbol corresponds to a plain vowel sound or a consonant-vowel pair. For 10 points each:
The Cherokee syllabary was created by this man in the early 19th century. He took inspiration from both the Latin and Cyrillic scripts while creating the Cherokee characters.
Two syllabic scripts are used in the writing of this Asian language. One named katakana can be used to transcribe foreign language words, while the other, hiragana, can denote grammatical content.
Another largely syllabic system was cuneiform adopted by the Akkadians and Assyrians. The languages of those groups are part of this language family that also includes Tigrinya and Amharic.
Sequoyah [accept George Gist; accept George Guess]
Japanese [accept Nihongo]
Semitic [prompt on Afro-asiatic; prompt on Afrasian; prompt on Hamito-Semitic; prompt on Semito-Hamitic] &lt; Bryan Lu | Social Science &gt;
According to this psychologist, young children cannot tell what a man in the mountains can see because they are egocentric. In reality, mountains are just disorienting. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist who designed a four-stage model of development and formulated object permanence.
Among Piaget’s four stages of child development, this step is defined by extreme egocentrism as children begin to develop and internalize schemata.
Piaget used this term to describe the process of combining new knowledge with previous facts and knowledge. In terms of education, this is the combination of assimilation and accommodation.
Jean Piaget
sensorimotor stage
equilibration &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
This psychologist, who wrote “The Problem of Female Masochism,” is considered one of the pioneers of feminine psychology. For 10 points each:
Name this German psychoanalyst who stated that men had the subliminal desire for the ability to bear children like women in her theory of “womb envy.”
Horney developed a continuous theory of this type of disorder. This general class of disorders commonly results from stress, but without the radical loss with reality seen in psychosis.
Along with Alfred Adler, Horney developed many ideas that led to the psychoanalytic school against this psychologist. This cocaine-enthusiast wrote Interpretation of Dreams.
Karen Horney (“horn-eye”) [accept Karen Horney née Danielson]
neurosis [accept word forms like neurotic]
Sigmund (Schlomo) Freud &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
This book’s final chapters discuss a plan for a society built on collective exchange processes. For 10 points each:
Name this non-Malinowski work that discusses potlatch and “forms and functions of exchange in archaic societies.”
In Argonauts of the Western Pacific, Malinowski found that this system was why Trobriand Islanders would “risk life and limb to travel across huge expanses of dangerous oceans” to give necklaces to other groups.
The necklaces used in the Kula ring are an example of this thing that serves as a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and a store of value. The US dollar is an example of the “fiat” variety of this thing.
The Gift (by Marcel Mauss)
Kula ring [accept Kula exchange; do NOT accept or prompt on “Kulak”]
money [accept currency] &lt; Sarod Nori | Social Science &gt;
The theory that this type of payment should be the main source of public revenue is one of the main tenets of Georgism. For 10 points each:
Name this type of payment, whose namesake law states that it should be equal to the maximum economic advantage of the land associated with it.
This British economist formulated the law of rent in Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, which also presented this man’s theory of comparative advantage.
Ricardo also advanced this theory, which holds that the moral price of a good or service must be based on the amount of wages spent to produce it. Marx’s Law of Value is an extension of this theory.
rent
David Ricardo
labor theory of value [accept LTV; prompt on partial answer] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
This man theorized that the religious idea of the “Sacred” presents itself in ideal models, which he called “hierophanies.” For 10 points each:
Name this religious historian who wrote texts like Images and Symbols (pause) and The Sacred and the Profane.
Eliade claimed that these types of stories demonstrate the Sacred manifesting itself in the origins of the world. Joseph Campbell described a framework centering around the hero’s journey in his book The Hero with a Thousand Faces, which analyzes these stories.
Eliade espoused a theory that a society attempts to become contemporary to the age of myths, an idea he gave this name. Friedrich Nietzsche used this two-word term to describe the universe continuing forever in self-similar, repetitive forms.
Mircea Eliade
myths [accept mythologies]
eternal return [accept eternal recurrence] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
Answer some questions about vowels. For 10 points each:
Vowels are one of the main two classes of speech sounds, along with this other group of letters used to form words.
This property of a vowel is determined by where the tongue is relative to the roof of the mouth when the vowel is voiced. This property is the vertical component of the IPA’s vowel trapezoid.
In contrast to diphthongs, this phenomenon occurs when two consecutive vowels are pronounced in different syllables. This phenomenon occurs in the word “biology” and the name of this term itself.
consonants
vowel height [prompt on openness; prompt on closeness]
hiatus [or diaeresis] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
This book presents a theory of pleasure and pain assessment based on a distinction between the “experiencing self” and “remembering self.” For 10 points each:
Name this book by Daniel Kahneman that distinguishes between two mental systems -- one that can reflexively complete tasks and another that initiates more difficult cognitive work.
Thinking, Fast and Slow includes documentation of this effect -- examples of which include Kahneman’s study on answers to the question “Did Gandhi die before or after the age of 140?” When asked to guess what age Gandhi died after the initial question, participants tended to guess older -- exemplifying this cognitive bias.
This other psychologist wrote a psychohistory of Gandhi. This theorist proposed eight stages of development and coined the term “identity crisis,” which he examined in his book Young Man Luther.
Thinking, Fast and Slow
anchoring [accept focalism; do NOT accept or prompt on “framing”]
Erik (Homburger) Erikson &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
This man developed a comparison between an asset’s market value and reproduction value in his namesake “q ratio.” For 10 points each:
Name this economist who gives his name to a type of tax on currency exchanges.
Tobin created a simplification for a person optimizing their utilities by assuming an inherent tradeoff between expected return and this measure of failure. The Arrow-Pratt Measure quantifies aversion to this measure.
James Tobin was part of a school developed from this economist’s writings which include his General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
James Tobin
risk
John Maynard Keynes &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Social Science &gt;
Early practitioners in this field include Mary Ellen Richard, which developed out of the Settlement House movement. For 10 points each:
Name this applied field, whose practitioners often work in child protective services.
The Settlement House movement was spearheaded by this “mother of social work” and graduate of what would become Rockford University. This social activist established a Chicago area settlement house with Ellen Gates Starr.
Social workers often work in these institutions where they provide mental health services to adolescents and children. The methods of these institutions are discussed in Maria Montessori’s book Peace and Education.
Social Work
Jane Addams (the Chicago area one is the Hull House)
(public/private/charter) schools &lt;Brad McLain | Misc - Other Academic &gt;
You’re a hotshot trying to make it big on Wall Street. For 10 points each, identify some concepts you’ll need to be familiar with if you’re going to make the big bucks:
If you’re predicting a stock’s failure, you can take this position, in which you sell an asset you don’t own and “cover” it later. Michael Lewis described the 2000s housing bubble in a book titled for a Big sale of this sort.
One of the most important rules of finance is to always diversify this group of investments or assets you own.
You might use CAPM, or the Capital Asset Pricing Model, in which this variable is symbolized beta. Harry Markowitz’ modern portfolio theory seeks to find an “efficient frontier” given a certain value for this variable.
short sale
your portfolio
risk [or volatility]
Answer the following about the work of Northwestern University sociologist Gary Alan Fine, for 10 points each:
Fine’s book Shared Fantasy discusses this leisure activity, which Philip Zimbardo linked to the “failure” of boys in his book Man, Interrupted. It doesn’t involve movies or music, but many studies have examined the relation between this leisure activity and males’ desensitization to violence.
Fine defines “naturework” as the way we give meaning to our surroundings in a book about people who collect these organisms. This organism appears in the title of an Anna Tsing book about “the Possibility of Life in Capitalist Ruins.”
Fine’s book Sticky Reputations examines the influence of the “collective” form of this concept advanced by Maurice Halbwachs. This term refers to our ability to store and retrieve information.
playing video games [or gaming; accept any descriptive or specific answers that involve video games]
mushrooms [or Morel Tales: The Culture of Mushrooming; or The Mushroom at the End of the World: On the Possibility of Life in Capitalist Ruins; prompt on fungi]
memory
In a classic work of forensic psychology, Hugo Münsterberg suggested that the memory of these people can be affected by so-called “illusions.” For 10 points each:
Name these people who may recall events inaccurately due to suggestibility and the misinformation effect. Loftus and Palmer demonstrated the unreliability of these people in an experiment that had patients describe the severity of a car crash.
Aside from creating Wonder Woman, Münsterberg’s student William Marston is known for championing the use of this device. Modern studies largely reject evidence provided by these devices, which determine the validity of eyewitnesses by measuring factors like blood pressure and heartbeat.
Münsterberg wrote a book pairing psychology with this sort of efficiency. This term is paired with the word “organizational” in the name of a branch of psychology that studies workplaces.
eyewitnesses [or On the Witness Stand: Essays on Psychology and Crime; accept court witnesses;]
lie detectors [or polygraph tests]
industrial [or industrial efficiency; or industrial and organizational psychology]
This curve is often used to illustrate opportunity cost. For 10 points each:
Name this curve that demonstrates the effects of tradeoffs. Introductory economics classes often use this curve to plot the relationship between guns and butter.
Points located along the PPF are considered to have the productive form of this condition. Vilfredo Pareto generalized it to a state in which any reallocation of goods will make an individual worse off.
Two answers required. The Heckscher-Ohlin model uses PPFs to determine the intensity of goods relative to these two quantities, which determines what countries export and import.
production possibility frontier [or production possibility curve; or PPC; or PPF]
efficiency [or productive efficiency; or Pareto efficiency; or Pareto optimality; accept word forms such as efficient]
labor and capital [accept in either order]
. The study introducing this test also asked children for etymologies of words like “blackboard.” “Thanksgiving.” and “Friday.” For 10 points each:
Name this linguistic test introduced by Jean Berko Gleason in which participants asked to provide a plural form to describe a pair of a fictional bird-like creature.
Gleason conducted the wug test to examine the ability of these people to learn morphological rules. According to one hypothesis, these individuals are able to acquire language because they haven’t left the “critical period.”
Lydia White has done research on how this concept contributes to second language acquisition. Noam Chomsky put forth the “poverty of the stimulus” argument to argue for this theory, which suggests that certain structures and constraints are innate to all language.
Wug test
children [accept equivalents]
universal grammar [or UG]
A Margaret Mahler book titled for this event advances her theory of the separation-individuation phase of development. For 10 points each:
Name this event whose “trauma” titles a 1924 book by psychoanalyst Otto Rank. Rank posited that this event results in the first and most significant instance of “separation anxiety” in a person’s life.
Both Mahler and Rank’s theories were inspired by this teacher and founder of psychoanalysis, who originated the idea of the Oedipus Complex and wrote The Interpretation of Dreams.
Rank wrote a book titled for The Myth of the Birth of this figure. In Joseph Campbell’s “monomyth” theory, this figure refuses to heed the “Call to Adventure” before “Crossing the First Threshold.”
birth [accept equivalents such as conception; accept The Psychological Birth of the Human Infant: Symbiosis and Individuation; or The Trauma of Birth]
Sigmund Freud
the hero [or The Myth of the Birth of the Hero]
The “availability” variety of these things leads people to make evaluations based on readily-available mental examples. For 10 points each:
Name these mental “shortcuts” utilized in decision-making and problem-solving, which are often contrasted with algorithms. Research by Kahneman and Tversky demonstrated how these things can lead to cognitive biases.
Heuristics are often studied in this subfield of psychology, which examines how human behavior is influenced by interactions with other humans.
This pioneering social psychologist from Yale asked volunteers to administer electric shocks to confederate “learners” in an experiment testing subjects’ obedience to authority.
heuristics
social psychology
Stanley Milgram
[Moderator note: <em>Make sure to read the lead-in to the following bonus (“Answer the following questions!”) forcefully, exaggerating the exclamation point.</em>] Answer the following questions! For 10 points each:
A sentence like “Answer the following questions!” has the imperative form of this grammatical feature, which also can be declarative or interrogative. It is often paired with tense and aspect.
This other mood is often used to express hypotheticals or wishes, as seen in the use of the verb “were” in the statement “I wish this question were over.”
This family of languages, once merged with Baltic languages, largely lacks a subjunctive mood. It underwent a series of three “palatalizations,” and is divided into West, East, and South branches.
mood
subjunctive mood
Slavic languages
Dutch researcher Jaap Kunst is credited with coining the name of this academic field. For 10 points each:
Name this field of study practiced by Colin McPhee. A pioneer of this field named Alan Lomax used the Cantometrics system and visited Angola Prison to make recordings of Huddie “Leadbelly” Ledbetter.
Both Jaap Kunst and Colin McPhee studied the gamelan percussion ensembles of this country. Wayang shadow puppets often perform to gamelan music on this country’s islands of Java and Bali.
Lomax made recordings of Leadbelly at Angola Prison in this state, which is the birthplace of zydeco music. The Preservation Hall brass band hails from this state, as did the members of the Original Dixieland Jass Band.
ethnomusicology [prompt on musicology; prompt on ethnography; prompt on anthropology; prompt on folklore]
Republic of Indonesia
Louisiana
Maurice Duverger argued that single-member district democracies are inevitably dominated by this number of political parties. For 10 points each:
Name this number of major political parties in America. Each individual state is granted this number of seats in the United States Senate.
According to Robert Michels, a democracy inevitably devolves into of these systems, in which power is held by a small number of people. Michels’ theory is known as the “iron law” of these systems.
Michels belonged to an Italian sociological school devoted to the study of these people. A 1956 C. Wright Mills book posits that these people are the answer to the question “Who, after all, runs America?”
two [or two-party system]
oligarchy
elites [or The Power Elite; prompt on descriptive answers like rich people]
Robert Sternberg’s triarchic theory of this concept divides it into componential, experiential, and practical components. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that was also divided into multiple categories by Howard Gardner. The Stanford-Binet scale measures its “quotient.”
The self, the world, and the future comprise a “cognitive triad” Aaron Beck proposed to understand beliefs associated with this condition. Dysthymia is a less-severe form of this condition that is often treated with SSRIs.
Mary Ainsworth’s “Strange Situation” experiment helped establish three primary forms of this concept: secure, insecure, and ambivalent. These relationships are key to a theory pioneered by John Bowlby.
intelligence
clinical depression
attachments [or attachment theory]
Everett Rogers coined the term “early adopter” in a book examining how this process affects innovations. For 10 points each:
Name this process that comes in contagious, hierarchical, and stimulus varieties. In the study of geography, this term refers to the spread of a phenomenon.
Leo Frobenius coined a form of diffusion involving this concept. Carl Sauer founded a branch of geography focusing on this concept, which encompasses the beliefs, customs, and values of a people.
This 1997 book partially examines the role of diffusion in explaining why Eurasian civilizations became the dominant world powers, a process largely aided by the title entities.
diffusion
culture [or cultural diffusion; or cultural geography]
Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies (by Jared Diamond)
Academics associated with this school of thought often study the security dilemma, a paradox in which a state’s security measures inadvertently makes the state less secure. For 10 points each:
Name this school of international relations, typically contrasted with liberalism, whose adherents emphasize the role of power in states’ interactions. Thinkers associated with its “neo” branch include John Mearsheimer and Kenneth Waltz.
To illustrate the security dilemma, defensive realists often cite the example of this early 20th-century war, which was partially caused by escalating tensions between the Allied Powers and the Central Powers.
Robert Jervis claimed the security dilemma could only exist under this situation. The Constructivist Alexander Wendt claimed that this situation “is what states make of it.”
realism [or neorealism]
World War I
anarchy
Daniel Ziblatt’s <em>Structuring the State</em> examines why one of these political systems developed in Germany in the 19th century, while Italy became a unitary nation-state. For 10 points each:
Name this political system that contains both a central government and regional governments that divide powers. The Tenth Amendment establishes this system in the United States.
This process is the transfer of power from a central government to a regional government. The rate of this process between the UK Parliament and the Scottish Parliament has been an issue in discussions of Scottish independence.
This political scientist wrote “Federalism and the Democratic Process.” He characterized the actual functioning of democracy as “polyarchy” in Democracy and its Critics, and examined New Haven’s pluralistic democracy in Who Governs?
federalism [or federalist system]
devolution
Robert Dahl &lt;RR, Social Science - Political Science/IR&gt;
This term was used to describe the findings of James Damore (“duh-MORE”), the ex-Google employee who wrote a presentation on the differences between men and women in the workplace. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the view that inherent differences in male and female anatomy justify cultural stereotypes of women. This term was introduced in the 2010 book Delusions of Gender by Cordelia Fine.
Neurosexism is often cited as an example of this three-word phrase, which was first articulated by Robert Merton. In this situation, an event’s consequences only become real after people think the consequences are real.
Simon Baron-Cohen’s work on this condition has been characterized as reinforcing neurosexism. Baron-Cohen suggests that this condition results from “mindblindness.”
neurosexism [accept word forms]
self-fulfilling prophecy
autism spectrum disorder &lt;IJ, Social Science - Psychology&gt;
Dutch orthography uses one of these things combining the letters I and J. For 10 points each.
Name these combinations of two letters used to represent a single sound or a combination of sounds different from those represented by the letters individually. Unlike in ligatures, the two letters aren’t fused together.
The Dutch word for “talk,” praat (“praht”), names a software package commonly used in this linguistic subfield. Unlike phonology, this subfield deals with the physical properties of speech sounds.
In 2004, Hagoort (“hah-HORT”) et al. measured N400 ERPs (“E-R-P’s”) in response to sentences like “The Dutch trains are white and very crowded” or “The Dutch trains are sour and very crowded.” ERP, which refers to a brain response triggered by a specific stimulus, stands for this phrase.
digraphs
phonetics [do not accept “phonics”]
event-related potential &lt;WN, Social Science - Linguistics&gt;
While this term was first used in a 1964 paper by Michael Beldoch, it did not enter common usage until a 1995 book that discussed the Self-Science Curriculum as a way to teach it. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that assesses a person’s ability to deal with interpersonal and intrapersonal interactions. It was popularized by a Daniel Goleman book.
This capacity, similar to sympathy, is the ability to understand and experience the feelings of another person.
An early researcher into emotional intelligence, Peter Salovey, now serves as the president of this university. Other psychologists at this university include Laurie Santos and Paul Bloom.
emotional intelligence quotient [or EI or EQ or emotional quotient or EIQ]
empathy
Yale University &lt;KH, Social Science - Psychology&gt;
A 2015 paper by Hulme and Snowling summarizing research into the acquisition of this skill found three primary determinants: letter knowledge, phoneme awareness, and rapid automatized naming. For 10 points each:
Name this skill. Dyslexia inhibits acquisition of this skill.
This process is the internal pronunciation of words as they are read, involving tiny movements of the larynx to mimic actual pronunciation of the words.
This method for teaching children to read emphasizes phoneme awareness and learning grapheme–phoneme correspondence. In contrast to “whole language” approaches, this method breaks down words into constituent parts to teach them.
reading [prompt on literacy]
subvocalization [accept phonological recoding, silent speech, inner speech, phonological encoding, or speech recoding]
phonics [do not accept or prompt on “phonetics” or “phonology”] &lt;RR, Social Science - Psychology&gt;
One type of this concept is exercised by a patriarch and derives from the “eternal yesterday.” For 10 points each:
Name this concept that was divided into traditional, charismatic, and rational-legal types in the speech “Politics as a Vocation.”
This German sociologist formulated the three types of legitimate rule. He also wrote about the influence of the title religion in his book The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
A George Ritzer book argues that Weber’s rational-legal bureaucracy has become outdated and that this company is a better model for society. A Benjamin Barber book analogized the struggle between tribalism and globalism to “jihad” versus a world named for this company.
legitimate authority [or Weberian authority]
Max Weber
McDonald’s [accept McDonaldization or McWorld] &lt;RR, Social Science - Sociology&gt;
A 2009 book named for these concepts includes confidence, fairness, and corruption as examples of them. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term used by the economists George Akerlof and Robert Shiller, which refers to human drives that influence an economy. They are said to be not accounted for in traditional theories of economics.
The term animal spirits was coined by this economist, who used the term to describe a person’s confidence in the economy in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
Keynes pioneered behavioral economics by analogizing speculators to participants in one of these events, in which the goal is to guess the person whom other players think have the namesake quality.
animal spirits
John Maynard Keynes
beauty contest [prompt on contest; do not accept or prompt on “beauty pageant” or “pageant”] &lt;IJ, Social Science - Economics&gt;
The appendix to a book titled after this concept recommends that a good scholar not split work from life and that they should keep a file of notes combining personal and professional experiences. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that was developed in response to structural functionalism and originally defined as a “vivid awareness of the relationship between experience and the wider society.”
This sociologist originated the idea of the sociological imagination and coined the term “New Left.” He studied the connections between military, political, and commercial interests in The Power Elite.
Mills based his book Listen, Yankee! on interviews he conducted in this country in 1960, shortly after a coup here. The highlight of his interviews in this country was a three-day-long visit with Fidel Castro.
the sociological imagination
C. Wright Mills [or Charles Wright Mills]
Cuba &lt;RR, Social Science - Sociology&gt;
This man’s student Penelope Eckert wrote <em>Jocks and Burnouts</em>, an ethnography of social groups at a Detroit high school. For 10 points each:
Name this University of Pennsylvania linguist who founded the study of variationist sociolinguistics and also studied African-American Vernacular English.
AAVE differs from Standard English in both pronunciation and grammar, meaning that is informally classified as a dialect, as opposed to this concept, which only covers pronunciation differences.
People who speak several dialects or languages can engage in this process that involves changing languages, sometimes rapidly, within a single conversation.
William Labov (“luh-BOHV”)
accent
code-switching [or code-mixing] &lt;RR, Social Science - Linguistics&gt;
This organization was founded at the Bretton Woods conference to ease payment difficulties among nations. For 10 points each:
Name this international organization. Along with the World Bank, it has been criticized for attaching conditions to its loans which infringe national sovereignty.
The IMF might offer a loan when a country has a high amount of this quantity, which equals a country’s payments minus its revenue. Latin America experienced a crisis of this quantity in the 1980s.
The IMF plays this role in the global financial system, as it is willing to lend to countries that cannot borrow through other credit arrangements.
IMF [or International Monetary Fund]
debt [prompt on deficit]
lender of last resort &lt;RR, Social Science - Political Science/IR&gt;
Women who suffered as a result of this tort were often given a recompense called “heart balm.” For 10 points each:
Name this tort, abolished in most jurisdictions, in which a man was engaged to marry a woman but changed his mind.
Breach of promise is a concept in this branch of law that deals with marriage, adoption, child protection, and related issues.
This procedure renders a marriage void. Unlike divorce, it generally applies retroactively, so that the marriage is considered invalid from its inception.
breach of promise
family law
annulment &lt;WN, Social Science - Law&gt;
The so-called “elephant chart,” named for its resemblance to an elephant, plots the global distribution of this value against its growth rate. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, defined as the total amount of earnings an individual gains over a given time period.
The elephant chart was co-developed by this Serbian-American economist and is discussed in his 2016 book Global Inequality: A New Approach for the Age of Globalization.
In 2016, this economist delivered a keynote address called “After the Elephant Diagram.” This New York Times columnist and author of The Conscience of a Liberal is known for his work on international trade.
income
Branko Milanović
Paul (Robin) Krugman &lt;WN, Social Science - Economics&gt;
The foundation of one of these institutions in Paris was inspired by a manifesto by the ethnologist Jacques Kerchache stating that “the masterpieces of the entire world are born free and equal.” For 10 points each:
Name these institutions, one of which in Rio de Janeiro was destroyed in a 2018 fire.
This pioneering British archaeologist founded an anthropological museum at Oxford, donating his collection in exchange for the appointment of a permanent lecturer in anthropology.
While working at the American Museum of Natural History, this anthropologist organized the Jesup North Pacific Exhibition. Ruth Benedict, Margaret Mead, and Alfred Kroeber were among his students at Columbia.
museums [accept museums of natural history or museums of anthropology or national museums]
Augustus Pitt Rivers
Franz (Uri) Boas &lt;WN, Social Science - Anthropology&gt;
This man’s model of the six functions of language was influenced by Karl Bühler’s three-part organon model. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker who wrote Preliminaries to Speech Analysis and created a theory of phonology based on a hierarchy of distinctive features.
Although he was a member of the Prague circle of linguists, Jakobson was from this country home to psychologist Ivan Pavlov.
This linguist’s structural analysis was an important influence on Jakobson’s work. This man introduced the distinction between langue and parole in his Course in General Linguistics.
Roman Jakobson [“YAH-kub-son”]
Russia [or the USSR; or the Soviet Union]
Ferdinand de Saussure &lt;YFL Social Science&gt;
The “doctrine of survival” is a legal fiction still used in parts of the United States in cases of simultaneous death. For 10 points each:
The doctrine of survival says that if two people die in a way that makes it impossible to determine order of death, the person with this trait is said to have died first. In primogeniture, the son with this trait is first to inherit.
Another legal fiction involved this historic English county. Because the Court of King’s Bench only had jurisdiction over crimes taking place in this county, spurious charges for trespassing here would be brought against a defendant, then quietly substituted with the actual complaint.
This English philosopher claimed fiction was as of much use to law as swindling was to trade. This advocate of codifying common law into statutes wrote A Fragment on Government.
being older [or being eldest; accept equivalents, but prompt on just age or being old; accept being born first]
Middlesex [or the Bill of Middlesex]
Jeremy Bentham &lt;JK Social Science&gt;
George Taylor presented this theory in 1926, arguing that rising stock prices were positively correlated to a certain sartorial characteristic. For 10 points each:
Name this index that relates a specific aspect of clothing to the state of an economy.
The “men’s underwear index” is used as a “leading” one of these things because a drop in discretionary consumption implies an upcoming downturn. Other types of these things include “lagging” and “coincident” ones.
This quantity, symbolized M2, is considered to be a leading indicator. It includes traveler’s checks and savings deposits in addition to physical currency, and an increase in it can drive inflation.
hemline index [prompt on anything mentioning the length of skirts or dresses]
indicator
money supply &lt;JK Social Science&gt;
David Skarbek’s <em>The Social Order of the Underworld</em> examines the complex structure of prison organizations of this type. For 10 points each:
Name this type of group often discussed in the sociology of deviance, examples of which include the Crips and Bloods in Los Angeles.
The gang member J. T.’s beating of C-Note is recounted in this book by Sudhir Venkatesh, which is subtitled “A Rogue Sociologist Takes to the Streets” and recounts his participant-observation study of crime in Chicago.
The choice of young people to join gangs is often explained with Robert Merton’s strain theory, which articulates how people adapt to this condition. This state of societal normlessness was first described in Émile Durkheim’s Suicide.
gangs
Gang Leader for a Day
anomie &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
A legend about this sort of figure among sugarcane workers is treated as a critique of commodity fetishism in an anthropological book by Michael Taussig. For 10 points each:
Name this sort of figure. In sociology, a Stanley Cohen book about moral panics introduced the idea of the “folk” type of these figures, who are groups of outsiders blamed for societal ills.
Michael Taussig’s The Devil and Commodity Fetishism draws from field work on this continent. Napoleon Chagnon dubbed the Yanomami tribe of this continent’s Amazon rainforest “the fierce people.”
Another Taussig book about South America is titled for this practice, “Colonialism, and the Wild Man.” A word from the Tungusic language names this practice, in which namesake healers enter a trance state in order to interact with the spirit world.
devils
South America [prompt on America]
shamanism &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
One psychologist theorized that this process occurs with the aid of “vicarious reinforcement” and “modelling.” For 10 points each:
Name this process placed in a social context in that theory by Albert Bandura. Lev Vygotsky theorized that this process occurs in the “zone of proximal development.”
Bandura tested his social learning theory by conducting an experiment in which children exhibited this type of behavior after watching adults interact with a bobo doll. A 2015 APA study found evidence for the belief that shooter video games cause this type of behavior.
A key idea from social learning theory is Julius Rotter’s theory of the “locus” of this concept. People with an external locus of this concept believe that their life events are determined primarily by outside forces.
learning [or social learning; accept answers indicating the acquisition of skills or knowledge]
aggression [accept word forms; accept equivalents like violence; anti-prompt on synonyms of crime]
control [accept word forms] &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
The book <em>The Ritual Process</em> examines how this entity’s “anti-” form is created through rituals that produce the feeling of “communitas.” For 10 points each:
Name these entities that are uncovered across cultures in a school of anthropology pioneered by Claude Levi-Strauss, who wrote about “elementary” entities of this kind that define kinship rules.
The concept of “anti-structure” was explored by this anthropologist, who developed his teacher Arnold van Gennep’s concept of “liminality” in his studies of rites of passage among the Ndembu.
Turner’s view that ritual transcends social structure contradicts the theory put forth in this Frenchman’s The Elementary Forms of Religious Life. He also wrote The Division of Labor in Society and On Suicide.
structures
Victor Turner
Émile Durkheim &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
This book claims that inferiority complexes result from embracing the culture of the Mother Country. For 10 points each:
Name this book that uses psychoanalysis to study the effect of colonization on blacks in the chapter “The Negro and Psychopathology.”
This Martinique philosopher wrote Black Skin, White Masks as well as a book that argues that the colonized need to utilize the power of the lumpenproletariat to violently expel the colonizers, The Wretched of the Earth.
Frantz Fanon was strongly influenced by this philosopher, from whom he borrowed the term lumpenproletariat. This philosopher is best known for The Communist Manifesto, which he wrote with Friedrich Engels.
Black Skin, White Masks
Frantz Fanon
Karl Marx &lt;YFL Philosophy&gt;
Okun’s law observes an empirical relationship between this phenomenon and GDP. For 10 points each:
Name this economic phenomenon which Keynesians [“CANE-zee-ins”] argue is composed of both cyclical and natural components, as opposed to the structural and frictional elements focused on by classical economics.
Keynesians support the “efficiency” types of these things, arguing that they increase productivity. Mandatory “minimum” ones often fall above the market-clearing level created by the intersection of labor supply and demand.
This economist and Alan Krueger used a natural experiment in Pennsylvania and New Jersey to argue that minimum wage increases did not decrease employment. He also argues that immigration does not decrease wages.
unemployment
wages [or pay]
David Card &lt;JK Social Science&gt;
David Keirsey’s <em>Please Understand Me</em> introduced a classification of temperaments such as “guardian” and “artisan” based on this test. For 10 points each:
Name this test developed by mother-daughter pair of psychologists that produces outputs such as INFJ and ESTP based on four scales.
The “I” and “E” in Myers–Briggs results refer to the taker’s orientation on an axis of these two opposing traits, which respectively manifest as outward-turning and inward-turning behavior. Name either.
The concept of personality types described as multi-letter abbreviations is also used in the Holland Codes system, which matches personalities with these things. Satisfaction with these things is explained by the two factors of hygiene and motivation in a theory of Frederick Herzberg.
Myers–Briggs Type Indicator [or MBTI]
introversion OR extroversion [accept word forms]
occupations [or workplaces; accept equivalents such as jobs, careers, and professions] &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
This economist posited “transaction utility” to explain why people don’t follow the predictions of classical microeconomics. For 10 points each:
Name this author of the column Anomalies in the Journal of Economic Perspectives. His interest in those anomalies led him to develop the field of behavioral economics with people like Kahneman and Tversky.
In 2017, Thaler became the 18th professor at this university to win the Nobel Prize in Economics. Ironically, he has argued against its namesake “School” of neoclassical economics championed by Milton Friedman.
In their book Nudge, Thaler and his colleague Cass Sunstein argued for “architecture” around these things. A theory named for these things assumes that preferences are complete and transitive, and that agents maximize utility.
Richard Thaler
University of Chicago [prompt on Booth School of Business]
choices [or choice architecture or rational choice theory] &lt;JK Social Science&gt;
Bonds with a rating below BBB from Standard &amp; Poor’s or a rating below Baa3 from Moody’s are known by this term. For 10 points each:
Name this derogatory term for speculative, non-investment grade bonds which are issued by companies with a high risk of default.
Many distressed debt investors buy junk bonds in order to receive equity after a company undergoes this process. In the Chapter 11 variety of this process, a company that cannot pay its debts undergoes reorganization.
Junk bond issuers often have high ratios of debt to this financial measure. This measure known by a six-letter acronym is a proxy for a company’s cash flows that can be used to service the company’s debts.
junk bonds
bankruptcy
EBITDA [or Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization] &lt;CH Social Science&gt;
The “weapon focus” problem for these people was studied in an experiment in which subjects more accurately identified a man carrying a greasy pen than one with a bloody knife. For 10 points each:
Name these people. A key role for forensic psychologists is appearing in court as the “expert” type of these figures.
That weapon focus experiment was conducted by this psychologist. In a study done with Palmer, this psychologist found that subjects’ estimates of the speed of car crashes was influenced by the use of the word “smashed.”
The reliability of eyewitnesses is undermined by Daniel Schacter’s “seven sins of memory,” which include misapplication of this process. This process of explaining the causes of behavior is subject to a “fundamental error.”
witnesses [or eyewitnesses; or expert witnesses]
Elizabeth Loftus
attribution &lt;JB Social Science&gt;
Clenora Hudson-Weems described an “Africana” type of a concept described by this thinker, which this thinker claimed “is to feminist as purple is to lavender.” For 10 points each:
Name this writer who greatly influenced modern black feminism by describing womanism in her prose work In Search of Our Mothers’ Gardens.
Contemporary black feminists can be described by this adjective often used to describe third-wave feminism. In social science, this adjective refers to the interaction of overlapping identities.
A bell hooks book subtitled “Black women and feminism” is titled “Ain’t I a Woman?” after a speech by this activist, in which she asserted “I could work as much as a man and bear the lash as well.”
Alice Walker
intersectional feminism
Sojourner Truth [or Isabella Baumfree] &lt;OL Social Science&gt;
A 1990 book on this concept argues that it is not a state of being, but rather a process of repeatedly doing. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, the social construction of masculine and feminine characteristics, distinct from biological sex.
This theorist described gender as “performative” in her 1990 book Gender Trouble.
Butler is generally considered to be a member of this feminist movement that started in the early 1990s. This movement incorporates intersectionality and has less of an explicitly political focus than prior feminist movements.
gender
Judith Butler
third-wave feminism
Instead of prepositions like “in” or “on,” this language uses words translating to “loose-fitting” and “tight-fitting.” For 10 points each:
Name this language. The writing system for this language was invented in 1443 and uses letters with similar shapes to represent sounds produced in the same place in the mouth.
Korean is an example of this type of language which does not have any known genetic relationships to other languages or language families.
In the 1980s, a new language isolate of this type spontaneously developed at a school in Nicaragua. This type of language is primarily used to communicate with people who are hard of hearing or deaf.
Korean language [prompt on hangul; accept hanguk-eo or hanguk-mal or uri-mal or guk-eo]
language isolates
sign languages [or Nicaraguan Sign Language]
This man dropped envelopes addressed to “Friends of the Nazi Party” and observed how many people put them in the mailbox in his “lost letter” experiment. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist, the primary investigator on a later experiment that tested subjects' obedience to authority by having them administer electric shocks to fellow participants.
Milgram conducted his obedience to authority experiment at this university. While a political science professor at this university, Robert Dahl wrote Who Governs? about the local government of this university's city.
Milgram studied under Gordon Allport, who created a three-tiered hierarchy of this concept. This general concept is measured by the MMPI.
Stanley Milgram
Yale University
personality
One figure in this experiment took on a personality based on a character from <em>Cool Hand Luke</em> and was referred to as “John Wayne.” For 10 points each:
Name this psychological experiment, conducted in the basement of Jordan Hall at the namesake university, which was terminated early due to the guards’ mistreatment of the inmates.
The Stanford prison experiment was led by this psychologist, who connected its findings to abuses at Abu Ghraib in The Lucifer Effect.
Another study of group dynamics was this experiment conducted by Muzafer Sherif at a namesake Oklahoma camp. It saw the rival Rattlers and Eagles unite when presented with “superordinate goals.”
Stanford prison experiment
Philip George Zimbardo
Robbers Cave experiment
You’re designing a social science experiment, and you want to use the proper methodology. For 10 points each:
You decide to use this type of experimental design. In this type of design, subjects are assigned to different treatment groups, in contrast to within-subject design, where all subjects are given all treatments.
You want to study your subjects over many years, so you conduct this kind of study. An example is the Up series of documentaries by Michael Apted, which interviewed a set of British children every seven years.
When analyzing data from your study, you decide to use this measure of central tendency. It is less resistant to outlier effects than the median, and is calculated by taking the average of your observations.
between-subjects design
longitudinal study
arithmetic mean
This author described three types of authority — traditional, charismatic, and legal — in his <em>Three Types of Legitimate Rule</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this German sociologist who attributed the development of European market societies to the influence of Calvinist theology.
Weber defined this concept as the entity that holds “a monopoly on the legitimate use of force.” This concept is often paired with “nation” to describe mono-ethnic countries.
This author described a “minimally protective state” whose only duty is to protect its citizens from violence in his book Anarchy, State, and Utopia, which aims in part to refute John Rawls’s theory of distributive justice.
Max Weber
the state [do not accept "country" or "government"]
Robert Nozick
The Laffer curve proposes that reducing these policies will increase government revenue. For 10 points each:
Name these policies that governments use to raise money. Many libertarians propose enacting a "flat" one.
Taxes can be used to account for these outcomes, which affect parties outside of a contract. An example is the pollution in Town A from a chemical plant that leases land in Town B.
This theorem states that if trade is possible and transaction costs are low enough, all parties will reach an efficient outcome even in the presence of externalities.
taxes
externalities [or negative externalities; or positive externalities]
Coase theorem [or Coase’s theorem]
In <em>The Chrysanthemum and the Sword</em>, Ruth Benedict uses this country as an example of a “shame culture.” For 10 points each:
Name this Asian country. Benedict was unable to perform field research here for The Chrysanthemum and the Sword because of the outbreak of World War II.
Benedict contrasted shame cultures, such as Japan, with cultures of this type, exemplified by the United States. In these cultures, actions are driven by an internal conscience rather than external approval or disapproval.
This practice is the ultimate method of enforcement in shame cultures. Its English name comes from the pieces of pottery that were used in this practice in Ancient Greece.
Japan
guilt cultures
ostracism [prompt on exile]
This man developed a methodology later used by his student Penelope Eckert in her study of “jocks” and “burnouts” in Detroit. For 10 points each:
Name this “father of sociolinguistics.” He conducted an experiment in which New York department store clerks were asked for directions to the “fourth floor.”
Labov’s research into language use in New York focused on this dialect of English. Speakers of this dialect use the habitual “be” and may use code switching to flip between this dialect and standard English.
Another area of Labov’s research looks at changes in values of these sounds, which underwent a “Great Shift” in England during the 15th to 18th centuries. They are produced with an open vocal tract in contrast to consonants.
William Labov
AAVE [or African American Vernacular English or ebonics or Black English Vernacular or Vernacular Black English]
vowels
This book’s author engaged in a public debate with Bernard Lewis over its main idea. For 10 points each:
Name this book published in 1978. It criticizes the West’s false cultural portrayal of the East, and was written by Edward Said.
Said was born in land that is now part of this territory. Said was a strong advocate for the formation of a new country from this territory, which is currently comprised of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Said’s essay “The Clash of Ignorance,” written a month after the September 11th attacks, criticizes the “cartoon-like” depictions of Islam and the West in this political scientist’s book The Clash of Civilizations.
Orientalism
Palestine
Samuel Huntington
Answer the following about Nobel Prize winning economists, for 10 points each:
The 2017 Nobel Prize in Economics went to Richard Thaler for his contribution to this specific field of economics, the study of the effect of psychological, social, cognitive, and emotional factors on economic decisions.
In 1996, this man and Reinhard Selten won the Nobel Prize for their study of non-cooperative games. He names a situation in a non-cooperative game where no player can improve their outcome when acting unilaterally.
Paul Krugman won the Nobel Prize in 2008 for his contribution to theories of this system. David Ricardo used Portuguese wine and English cloth to demonstrate the comparative advantage provided by this system.
behavioral economics [accept behavioral finance]
John Nash [accept Nash equilibrium]
international trade
Many indigenous cultures of this region carve totem poles to commemorate family lineages. For 10 points each:
Name this geographic region home to cultures such as the Tlingit and Kwakiutl that held large potlatch celebrations on Vancouver Island.
In potlatches, people who perform this action receive social prestige. Bronislaw Malinowski described the kula ring, another form of this action, in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
Argonauts of the Western Pacific is one of the first modern examples of this type of work, a detailed description of a society's everyday life and habits. An ancient example is Tacitus’s Germania.
the Pacific Northwest coast [or Northwest coast; prompt on Pacific Coast or Western United States or Western Canada or Oregon or Washington or British Columbia or Northern California or Alaska]
giving gifts [or gift-giving or gift economy or gift exchange or destroying gifts or anything involving giving away things to other people; do not accept "receiving gifts"]
ethnography [or word forms such as ethnographic]
Answer some questions about looking at situations through different perspectives, for 10 points each:
This American sociologist argued that changing perspectives to better understand society constitutes the “sociological imagination.” He described the influence of dominant societal interests in The Power Elite.
Shifting societal perspectives are central to this thought experiment, in which a group of people create a society under a “veil of ignorance” where no person knows what their social status will be. It was devised by John Rawls.
In psychology, this term is used to describe imagining someone else’s life from their perspective. In contrast to sympathy, someone undergoing this emotion does not share that perspective.
Charles Wright Mills
the original position
empathy
A simplified diagram showing where these sounds are produced in the mouth takes the shape of a quadrilateral set between the palate and the velum. For 10 points each:
Name these sounds represented orthographically by letters like A, E, and O.
An articulatory definition of a vowel includes the height of the tongue, the frontness of the tongue, and the presence or absence of rounding at this part of the vocal tract. Labial consonants are produced at this place of articulation.
In languages of the discredited Altaic superfamily, such as Hungarian, Turkish, and Korean, vowels may exhibit this phenomenon in which the presence of one vowel in a word causes other vowels to be more similar to it with predictable patterns.
vowels
lips
vowel harmony &lt;AF, SocSci&gt;
An entire chapter of anthropologist Heather Levi’s <em>The World of Lucha Libre</em> is dedicated to the use of these objects. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, often wagered by Mexican wrestlers in luchas de apuestas, which require the loser to permanently remove his and the identity that goes with it. They’re also used in many African religions.
This anthropologist wrote The Way of the Masks about their use among the peoples of the Pacific Northwest. He described depressing journeys in the developing world in Tristes Tropiques.
The False Face Society among this group wore red or black painted masks as they healed people. Lewis Henry Morgan wrote an ethnography of this group and named one of his types of kinship systems after them.
masks
Claude Lévi-Strauss
Iroquois League [accept Haudenosaunee] &lt;AF, SocSci&gt;
The components of this term are often considered “intangible,” and brain drain is also known as a “flight” of this term. For 10 points each:
Name this term, which refers to an individual’s stock of knowledge, skills, or innate economic value. It can be increased by investments in education or on-the-job training.
This former professor at the University of Chicago is a major proponent of human capital theory. This social economist studied the effects of drug addiction on output and crafted the “rotten kid theorem” thought experiment.
The “rotten kid theorem” became one of the centerpieces of a new branch of economics developed by Becker focusing on these units. Becker’s work with Jacob Mincer considered how male income affected their stability.
human capital
Gary Stanley Becker
family [or households] &lt;LS, SocSci&gt;
This quantity is held constant for a Hicksian demand function. For 10 points each:
Name this economic concept. Its “marginal” variety refers to how much benefit an agent receives from a good, service, or other product.
These economic curves indicate combinations of goods that provide equal amounts of utility for a given agent.
The fact that indifference curves almost always have negative slopes indicates that this value is almost always positive, since this quantity equals the negative slope of the indifference curve at a given point.
utility
indifference curves
marginal rate of substitution [or MRS; prompt on marginal rate by asking “of what?”] &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
Behaviors linked to this phenomenon can be predicted using a task in which participants blow on a simulated balloon by pressing on a computer key in the BART test. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, whose perception is affected by the “optimism bias.” The Arrow–Pratt measure defines agents’ response to this phenomenon, a reaction assigned a value of unity by the Bernoulli utility function.
Risk behaviors are often considered a part of Marvin Zuckerman’s “Sensation-Seeking” test for this concept. The Myers–Briggs test classifies people into types of this concept such as “ENTJ.”
Risk is used to predict behavior in the paradigm of prospect theory developed by Amos Tversky and this author of books such as Thinking, Fast and Slow.
risk [accept risk aversion]
personality
Daniel Kahneman &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
Answer some questions about social psychology studies that just refuse to be replicated, for 10 points each.
Amy Cuddy made waves in 2012 with a TED Talk concerning the “power” form of these things, which Eva Ranehill failed to replicate with a double blind set-up. These nonverbal behaviors can usually be seen during job interviews with insecure people.
John Ioadannis [yo-ah-DAH-nis] published a 2005 article about why most published research is false during his tenure at this university. It was home to a notable “prison experiment” led by Philip Zimbardo.
Roy Baumeister’s research on this concept failed to replicate in recent research using over 2,000 participants. This concept refers to the idea that self-control draws upon a pool of limited mental resources that can be used up.
poses [or postures; prompt on related terms like body language]
Stanford University
ego depletion &lt;JM, SocSci&gt;
Answer the following about Gary Fine’s ethnography of Dungeons and Dragons players – <em>Shared Fantasy: Role Playing Games as Social Worlds</em>. For 10 points each:
Fine’s book asks “When was the first fantasy game played?” in discussing how rule-stretching led to paradigm shifts in gaming, and credits this author of The Structure of Scientific Revolutions with inspiring his analysis.
Fine borrows the term “voluntary subjection” from this author, who described that process as a necessary condition of play in the book Homo Ludens.
Fine’s book focuses on the sociology of D&amp;D players, unlike later psychological studies of them, which generally considered their players to be exhibiting this form of variation from social norms. Émile Durkheim argued that anomie causes this.
Thomas Kuhn
Johan Huizinga [“housing”-uh]
deviance [or deviant behavior, etc.] &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
A distinction between “formalist” and “substantivist” positions in this discipline is proposed in Karl Polanyi’s <em>The Great Transformation</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline. A famous definition for this discipline was coined in Thomas Carlyle’s Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question, which is otherwise a questionable defense of slavery.
Contemporary to Karl Polanyi’s distinction was Marvin Harris’s analysis of “emic” and “etic” approaches in this discipline. This discipline’s practitioners include Harris himself, as well as Michael Taussig.
Economic anthropologist David Graeber argues that pure varieties of this system never really existed, questioning many theories about the origins of money. In this form of trade, goods are directly exchanged for one another.
economics (that definition is “the dismal science”)
anthropology
barter economy &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
Commonly used techniques in this field are the “time and motion” studies conducted by Frank and Lillian Gilbreth. For 10 points each:
Identify this field whose “scientific” form was pioneered by Frederick Winslow Taylor, whose main goal was to increase the efficiency of workers and better administer organizations.
A set of questionable early industrial-organizational psychology studies at this factory in Illinois concluded that workers acted differently while observed.
Many modern I/O psychologists, such as Arlie Hochschild [HOCK-shilled] focus on a form of “labor” associated with these concepts that is often required in nurses and call center workers. A theory of them was developed by Cannon and Bard.
management (theory) [accept industrial-organizational psychology to be generous]
Hawthorne Works
emotions [accept emotional labor] &lt;JM, SocSci&gt;
This is the surname of a 19th-century Orthodox rabbi from Hamburg who began the practice of giving sermons in German and added German education to traditional Torah study. For 10 points each:
Give this surname, which also belonged to a pioneer in the field of public relations who worked for the United Fruit Company and created the “Torches of Freedom” campaign.
Edward Bernays applied the principles of this psychoanalyst to advertising. Coincidentally, this formulator of the Oedipus complex was married to Martha Bernays.
Jakob Bernays was best known as a scholar of this discipline, a pillar of 19th-century German education. This discipline, whose name is Greek for “love of words,” comprises the study of language in historical texts and historical linguistics.
Bernays [accept Isaac and Edward Bernays]
Sigmund Freud
philology &lt;WA, Other&gt;
Candace West and Don Zimmerman proposed that this concept is a “routine accomplishment embedded in everyday interaction” in a widely-cited 1987 paper about “Doing” it. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that Judith Butler argues is performative.
West and Zimmerman’s thesis is one of many arguing that gender is this kind of “construct,” meaning that it is only valid in the context of one’s given interpersonal milieu.
This adjective describes a type of “masculinity” identified by R. W. Connell based on her studies of Australian high schoolers. Connell’s theory is rooted in that of Antonio Gramsci, in which this word’s noun form describes the predominance of bourgeois culture.
gender identity [prompt on identity]
social construct
hegemonic [or hegemony; accept hegemonic masculinity or cultural hegemony] &lt;WA, PhilO&gt;
This paper takes its title term for defective productions from auto slang originating in a 1960 Volkswagen commercial. For 10 points each:
Name this paper by George Akerlof that uses the example of a used car market to illustrate the problem of adverse selection.
The problem of adverse selection stems from asymmetry in this resource between two parties in a car purchase. Akerlof won a Nobel Prize for examining that asymmetry in this resource.
Adverse selection alters the distribution of people who choose to enter into a transaction. This related phenomenon occurs when people behave differently when risks are borne by other parties, such as flood insurance encouraging people to build houses in flood-prone areas.
“The Market for ‘Lemons’”
information
moral hazard &lt;LS, SocSci&gt;
The “Demeny” form of this practice was proposed in 2007 by Warren Sanderson to allow for children to indirectly participate. For 10 points each:
Name this practice whose “foreign” form is currently illegal within the United States at the national and state levels. The Borda count is one way of performing it.
This theorem, postulated by Anthony Downs, suggests that parties in a two-party system will attempt to appeal to the namesake voter in order to win the largest share of the population possible.
The median voter theorem is similar to a theorem named for this economist; it says that producers have incentives to make their products as undifferentiated as possible. Similarly, his location-based pricing model says that on a single street, it is rational for two shops to both locate at the center.
voting [accept word forms; or elections]
median voter theorem
Harold Hotelling &lt;EX, SocSci&gt;
You’re browsing the DSM-V. Answer some questions about what you find inside, for 10 points each.
You discover that this disorder has now been classified as a singular diagnosis compared to its four separate diagnoses in the DSM-IV, two of which were “childhood disintegrative disorder” and “pervasive developmental disorder.
You see that this concept’s “identity disorder” has been renamed to “dysphoria” and now has distinct criteria for diagnosing children, adolescents, and adults.
You find that your pattern of volatile relationships, impulsive behaviors, and fear of abandonment may be a sign of this Cluster B personality disorder that is now commonly treated with dialectical behavior therapy.
autism spectrum disorder [or ASD]
gender
borderline personality disorder [accept BPD and emotionally unstable personality disorder] &lt;JM, SocSci&gt;
Otto Rank connected world mythology through a psychoanalytic approach in a work about the “Myth of the Birth of” these people. For 10 points each:
Name these people, whose stories experience a pattern of departure-initiation-return according to mythographer Joseph Campbell.
The theory that heroes’ stories and journeys all follow a single pattern was given this name by Joseph Campbell. George Lucas applied this idea to Star Wars.
Campbell’s approach is rooted in the approach of this psychoanalyst, particularly in his concept of archetypes. He split with Sigmund Freud over his notion of the “collective unconscious.”
heroes [accept The Hero With a Thousand Faces]
monomyth
Carl Jung &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
A Saskia Sassen book with this title collects a number of essays dealing with cities as well as immigration, which it conceives as the title process happening to labor. For 10 points each:
Give this title of a 2002 book which argues that IMF interventions were at the root cause of the Argentine and Asian economic crises, and which criticizes “governance” without “government.”
Among other policies attacked by Joseph Stiglitz’s Globalization and Its Discontents is this set of policies with a two-word name, which involved sudden market liberalization and privatization in countries like Russia.
Stiglitz’s book specifically criticizes IMF policies of keeping these quantities high. The Federal Reserve sought to reduce these quantities to near zero percent during the 2008 crisis.
Globalization and Its Discontents
shock therapy
interest rates &lt;WA, SocSci&gt;
Lectures given by Ferdinand de Saussure were compiled into a book titled for this field, and Noam Chomsky created its theory of a universal grammar. For 10 points each:
Name this field of social science that is the study of human language.
Chomsky wrote a book titled for this concept’s “structures” in 1957. In that book, the sentence “Colorless green ideas sleep furiously” follows this concept, which refers to rules that determine the order of words in a sentence.
This other subfield of linguistics was studied by British philosopher J.L. Austin in his book How to Do Things with Words. It includes the concept of speech acts, like asking a question or making a threat.
linguistics
syntax [accept syntactics; accept Syntactic Structures]
pragmatics
Answer the following about macroeconomic modeling, for 10 points each.
The interest rate is on the vertical axis and the real output on the horizontal axis in this model. The equilibrium is the intersection of a curve representing the goods market and another curve represents the liquidity market.
The IS curve can be found by using a “cross” named for this economist who offered opinions on the nature of full employment in his 1936 The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
Leon Walras posited this theory that seeks to show that excess demand is zero. This model was criticized by von Mises who developed the alternative Evenly Rotating Economy theory.
IS–LM model [or Hicks–Hansen Model]
John Maynard Keynes
general equilibrium theory [prompt on equilibrium theory or Walrasian Equilibrium; do not accept “partial equilibrium theory”]
This man’s theory of reciprocal determinism states that both personal and social factors influence a person’s behavior. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who developed social learning theory and the concept of self-efficacy.
In this experiment by Bandura, adults beat up the namesake toys while children watched, and then the children were observed to be more aggressive with the toys themselves.
Walter Mischel, a colleague of Bandura at Stanford, performed an experiment in which children were given a choice of receiving one of these snacks immediately or waiting for fifteen minutes to receive two of them.
Albert Bandura
Bobo doll experiment
marshmallows
Olson’s law of large groups states that the larger the group, the larger this problem becomes. For 10 points each:
Name this problem that leads to inefficiency in markets. When this problem occurs, people receive goods or services that they do not pay for.
The free rider problem is most common among this type of good. This type of good is non-excludable and non-rivalrous, and examples of it include fresh air and street lighting.
The free rider problem can be exacerbated by the presence of the “positive” form of these constructs. Ronald Coase theorized that bargaining will lead to an efficient outcome if one can trade “in” these constructs with no cost.
free rider problem
public goods
externalities
He described his support for Oriental despotism in Le Despotisme de la Chine. For 10 points each:
Identify this economist, whose Economic Table established the main ideas of the Physiocrats. Earlier, this man was one of the personal physicians of Louis XV.
François Quesnay was an economist from this country. Jean-Baptiste Colbert, another economist from this country, was an advisor to Cardinal Mazarin.
The Physiocrats believed that this resource was the source of all wealth. The taille was a tax on the amount of this resource that a farm possessed.
François Quesnay (“keh-NAY”)
Kingdom of France [or Royaume de France]
land
Patrick Geddes, a Scottish biologist, drew loosely on Darwinian natural selection to describe how these entities grow, in his book titled for them in Evolution. For 10 points each:
Name these entities whose features are explored by a book titled for The Death and Life of Great American ones of them. Lewis Mumford wrote a book about them in History.
This scholar wrote The Death and Life of Great American Cities and opposed the urban planning efforts of Robert Moses.
Jacobs and Moses both worked in this city, and Jacobs opposed Moses’ efforts to build a proposed Lower Manhattan Expressway through its neighborhood of Greenwich Village.
city or cities [accept towns; accept obvious equivalents like metropolises or urban areas]
Jane Jacobs [or Jane Butzner]
New York City
A second attempt to introduce a more extreme variant of these objects in the 1970s was widely rejected. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, whose adoption in the 1950s was an attempt to improve its country’s dismal twenty-percent literacy rate. Hong Kong and Taiwan do not use these objects, which take fewer strokes to write than their traditional counterparts.
An even more radical attempt to improve literacy proposed getting rid of Chinese characters altogether and using this romanization of Chinese, which has almost completely replaced the older Wade–Giles romanization system.
This writer, who spearheaded the New Culture Movement, declared that China would perish if Chinese characters were not abolished. His “True Story of Ah Q” pioneered the usage of baihua, or Vernacular Chinese, in literature.
simplified Chinese characters [or jianti zi; or jianhua zi]
pinyin
Lu Xun [or Zhou Zhangshou; or Zhou Shuren]
Husband-and-wife neuroscientist duo Hanna and Antonio Damasio created a famous 1994 reconstruction of this man’s injury. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th century American railroad worker who developed a drastic personality change after he survived having a metal rod rammed through his skull. He later had a successful stagecoach-driving career in Chile.
Antonio Damasio is best known for his “somatic marker hypothesis” of how these psychological phenomena influence decision making. Examples include anger, fear, and happiness.
Another famous 19th century neuroscience case was of Louis Victor Leborgne, whose damaged frontal lobe helped Paul Broca identify an area controlling this faculty. Impairment of this ability is a type of aphasia.
Phineas Gage
emotions
speech [accept any answer describing the ability to speak]
An example of this effect is the not-real mathematical talent of Clever Hans, the horse who could supposedly perform arithmetic. For ten points each:
Name this effect in which the biases of the experimenters influence the outcomes of their experiments. It can occur at many stages, from selective preliminary research to cherry-picking during data analysis or publishing.
One way to help control for the observer-expectancy effect is to use this type of experimental design in which neither the experimenter nor the subject know which subjects belong to which treatment groups.
Well-designed experiments have robust replication in a treatment group and also in this type of group, whose subjects can receive a placebo alternative to the treatment being investigated or no experimental treatment at all.
observer-expectancy effect [accept observer effect, or experimenter effect, or expectancy bias]
double-blind trials [accept synonyms of “trial” like “experiment” or “design”]
control groups
This phrase was coined by an English sociologist who wrote the books System of Synthetic Philosophy and Social Statics. For 10 points each:
Give this four-word phrase often used to describe the theory of natural selection. Alfred Russel Wallace urged Charles Darwin to use this phrase in place of natural selection.
This man coined the phrase “survival of the fittest.” This one-time editor of The Economist magazine is credited with creating the idea of Social Darwinism.
The term “Darwinism” was itself coined by this Englishman. In an 1860 debate at Oxford, Bishop Samuel Wilberforce asked this man whether he claimed descent from a monkey through his grandfather or his grandmother.
“survival of the fittest”
Herbert Spencer
Thomas Henry Huxley
Michael Doyle is a Columbia professor who popularized the idea that war is absent among countries with this form of government, which is called its “peace theory.” For 10 points each:
Name this form of government whose “direct” form was exemplified by ancient Athens.
Doyle popularized democratic peace theory with a paper analyzing Immanuel Kant, Machiavelli, and this Austrian economist, whose book Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy analyzed “creative destruction.”
A central tenet of international relations, especially according to the realist school, is the assumption that states operate under this condition, in which there is no overarching sovereign power.
democracy [accept word forms like democratic]
Joseph Alois Schumpeter
anarchy [accept word forms like anarchic]
Daryl Bem’s self-perception theory attempts to explain how this phenomenon occurs. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that Leon Festinger described in his book When Prophecy Fails, which is the discomfort one feels due to conflicting beliefs.
During World War II, the U.S. government employed Festinger’s mentor, Kurt Lewin [“Levine”] to convince the public to eat organ meats. They also employed this anthropologist who wrote Coming of Age in Samoa.
Lewin’s studies of group dynamics were influential in this field of psychology, which applies psychology to corporate work environments like human resources and management.
cognitive dissonance
Margaret Mead
industrial-organizational psychology [or I-O psychology]
Ferdinand Lassalle drew on this thinker to describe the “iron law of wages,” which claims that all wages tend to return to a subsistence level. For 10 points each:
Name this English economist who used Portuguese wine and English cloth to illustrate the idea of comparative advantage in his book Principles of Political Economy and Taxation.
Ricardo described how actors would produce more of a good that they have a comparative advantage in if this phenomenon is “free.” Barriers to this activity include tariffs on imports and exports.
The Stolper-Samuelson theorem, part of the Heckscher-Ohlin model of trade, holds that changes in the prices of goods will change the prices, or “income,” of these inputs. They include land, labor, capital, and sometimes entrepreneurship.
David Ricardo
trade
factors of production [accept factor income]
A 1956 paper by this man showed that the precarious “knife-edge” result of the Harrod-Domar growth model relied on the assumption of no substitution between capital and labor. For 10 points each:
Name this economist, whose own growth model allowed for substitution and became the basis of the neoclassical growth model.
Solow treated as exogenous the rate of this activity. This quantity, which is often defined as “deferred consumption”, is identical to investment in a closed economy with no government spending or taxes.
Solow's original model made this assumption about the elasticity of labor supply. With this assumption, labor supply does not change in response to changes in the real wage.
Robert Solow [or Robert Merton Solow]
saving [or savings]
perfectly inelastic [or elasticity of zero] &lt;Bailey&gt;
Answer the following about pioneering social scientist Gregory Bateson, for 10 points each.
A Bateson-led group of researchers published a paper suggesting that problems in communicating with schizophrenics were due to these dilemmas, in which an individual receives two messages that conflict with each other such that satisfying one will inherently fail to satisfy the other.
An essay in Bateson's Steps to an Ecology of Mind examines the alcoholic mind through the framework of this then-recently-developed field that focuses on feedback-modulated complex systems. Its founder, Norbert Wiener, defined it as “the scientific study of control and communication in the animal and the machine”.
Bateson's early anthropological work was often conducted in collaboration with this woman, his first wife. She collaborated with James Baldwin on A Rap on Race more than 40 years after writing Coming of Age in Samoa.
double binds
cybernetics
Margaret Mead &lt;Carson&gt;
Kenneth Waltz classified prior theories about the causes of this phenomenon into three “images of analysis” in a book titled for “man, the state, and” this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that is subject to an “inefficiency puzzle” about why states pursue it despite its cost. James Fearon has contributed to a bargaining model of this phenomenon.
Waltz argues that war can be mitigated by this state, in which nations' military capabilities are distributed such that no state or coalition can dominate all others, thus creating stability among competing states.
Thomas Schelling applied this mathematical discipline to war and conflict studies in books like The Strategy of Conflict. This discipline considers situation like the Hawk-Dove scenario and evaluates the payoffs received by players depending on their strategies.
war [or armed conflict]
balance of power [or word forms]
game theory &lt;Kothari&gt;
A more subjectivist school that reacted to this movement includes the director of Çatalhöyük <strong>(chah-TAHL-hoh-yook)</strong>, Ian Hodder. For 10 points each:
Name this school of archeology, also called New Archeology, that emphasized scientific methods and continuity with anthropology. Its noted proponents include Gordon Willey, Philip Phillips, and Lewis Binford.
Lewis and Sally Binford disagreed with François Bordes about the functional or stylistic meaning of variation in Mousterian Levallois tools made by this recent Eurasian hominid subspecies. This species is named after a German valley.
The processual archaeologist Colin Renfrew argues that this language originated in Anatolia rather than with the Kurgan culture, as proposed by Marija Gimbutas. Shifts away from the pattern of stop consonants in this language are the subject of Grimm's law.
processual school
Neanderthals [or Homo sapiens neanderthalensis]
Proto-Indo-European language [prompt on “PIE language”] &lt;Kothari&gt;
Michael Taussig explicates this concept using the example of Colombian sugarcane workers who believe that wage laborers can make a pact with the devil to make a lot of money, only to have to spend it on pointless consumer goods. For 10 points each:
Identify this concept from Marx's Das Kapital, which refers to the reification of social relations into economic relations, such that power is attributed to goods rather than labor.
Taussig attributes the story about the devil to an application of this concept to the impersonal market. Marshall Sahlins classified balanced, negative, and generalized types of this concept, the last of which David Graeber calls “open” for its lack of accounts.
Perhaps the foremost early theorist of reciprocity, Marcel Mauss, discussed the role of the hau in the gift-giving of the native Polynesian people, the Maori, of this country in Oceania.
commodity fetishism [accept word forms such as commodity fetishizing]
reciprocity [or word forms]
New Zealand &lt;Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about legal pleading requirements. For 10 points each:
The processes of civil law at the national level are governed by this set of standards enforced by the Supreme Court since 1938, pursuant to the Rules Enabling Act. The eighth of these measures sets forth the lenient standard of “notice pleading”.
Bell Atlantic Co. v. Twombly, a case in this area of law, requires complaints to plead facts that “plausibly” state a claim for relief. The Clayton and Sherman Acts are central to this area of law, which attempts to curb anticompetitive behavior.
A complaint asserting one of these actions must plead commonality, numerosity, typicality, and adequacy of representation, according to Rule 23 of the Federal Rules. Additional jurisdictional pleading requirements for them are set forth in a namesake “fairness act” abbreviated “CAFA” (CAFF-uh).
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [or FRCP or Fed. R. Civ. P.; prompt on “Federal Rules”]
antitrust law [accept unfair competition law]
class action [or class suit; accept Class Action Fairness Act] &lt;Kothari&gt;
Mark Granovetter argued that the “weak ties” in these entities were an important and understudied part of how ideas and innovations spread. For 10 points each:
Name these structures of agents and the connections between them. The “small-world” experiment was an attempt to measure them.
Granovetter drew upon the ideas of this man in his study of how economic transactions are embedded in larger social structures. This man investigated the emergence and breakdown of the classical market economy in The Great Transformation.
This man ran an experiment in which participants were asked to send packages to strangers via people they knew on a first name basis. In another experiment of his, almost two-thirds of people were willing to submit others to fatal electric shocks if one of the scientists told them to.
social networks
Karl Polanyi [or Karl Paul Polanyi]
Stanley Milgram &lt;Bailey&gt;
In an economy with a continuum of agents, these scenarios are identical to the core of the economy. For 10 points each:
Name these allocations where aggregate excess demand is zero. The first welfare theorem gives conditions for when they are Pareto optimal.
An equilibrium may fail to be Pareto optimal if the private costs or benefits of a good do not match its social costs or benefits, a situation described by this term. Pollution is an example of a “negative” one.
This early general equilibrium theorist showed that, in an economy of n markets, if n-1 (“n-minus-one”) markets clear, the last one must also clear. His “law” states that the price values of excess demand in every market must sum to zero.
competitive equilibria [or market equilibria; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, Walrasian equilibria; accept word forms such as equilibrium]
externalities [or externality]
Léon Walras [or Marie-Esprit-Léon Walras] &lt;Bailey&gt;
A 2009 study by Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers found that the self-reported well-being of these people has been decreasing since the 1970s. For 10 points each:
Name this group of people whose labor supply increased dramatically in the late 1960s. Although their relative wages have been rising, they still only make between 78 and 93 cents for every dollar of their counterparts.
These two economists argued that the availability of oral contraceptives increased the female labor supply. Name either of these people, who claimed that skill-biased technological change explained growing wage inequality in The Race Between Technology and Education.
Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn found that little of the wage gap can be explained by differences in this quantity, the stock of knowledge and skills possessed by workers. Gary Becker wrote a 1964 book titled for it.
American women [accept equivalents such as females or ladies]
Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz [accept either]
human capital [prompt on “capital”] &lt;Bailey&gt;
Answer the following about social capital, for 10 points each.
A 2000 book by Robert Putnam that examined the decline of American social capital was partly titled for this recreational activity, which Putnam observed more people were doing but fewer people were doing in leagues.
In his essay “The Forms of Capital”, this French sociologist suggested that economic, cultural, and social capital were the “three fundamental guises” in which capital presents itself. He explored the effects of cultural capital on taste in his 1979 book Distinction.
Though he didn't use the term “social capital” explicitly, Emile Durkheim suggested that urbanization and industrialization lead to a breakdown in bonds between individuals and communities that produces this condition, also referred to as “normlessness”. Durkheim also proposed it as one of the four causes of suicide.
bowling [accept Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community]
Pierre Bourdieu [or Pierre Felix Bourdieu]
anomie [accept anomic] &lt;Carson&gt;
This man used people's reactions to a story about incestuous siblings as evidence that moral reasoning follows intuitive judgments. For 10 points each:
Name this proponent of social intuitionism. He tabulated six principles underlying most morality systems in The Righteous Mind.
Haidt criticized rationalist models of moral development such as the one developed by this man. Carol Gilligan criticized this psychologist for his stages of moral development being male-centered.
One of the scenarios Kohlberg asked children to respond to involved a man named Heinz stealing this kind of thing for his wife.
Jonathan Haidt
Lawrence Kohlberg
drug [or medicine or cancer treatment or radium; accept equivalents in the vein of drug or medicine] &lt;Bailey&gt;
The third section of J. Michael Bailey's <em>The Man Who Would Be Queen</em> was criticized by people with this identity for its use of Blanchard's typology of it. For 10 points each:
Name this identity, which includes Groups 2 and 3 in a scale created by Harry Benjamin.
The Benjamin scale references the homosexual-heterosexual scale of this sexologist, who referred some of Benjamin's first trans patients and led reports on the sexual behavior of men and women.
Pre-transition trans people are often formally diagnosed as having this DSM-listed condition, in which a person feels distress over his or her assigned sex.
transgender women [or transsexual women; accept any answers denoting a person identified as biologically male at birth who identifies as female; prompt on “transgender” or “transsexual”]
Alfred Kinsey [or Alfred Charles Kinsey]
gender dysphoria [or gender identity disorder or GID] &lt;Kothari&gt;
A paper by Gilovich, Vallone, and Tversky claimed to find evidence that this belief was fallacious among datasets of Philadelphia 76ers, Boston Celtics, and Cornell varsity basketball teams. For 10 points each:
Name this belief that the probability of success is greater after a success than after a failure. A 2015 re-analysis by Miller and Sanjurjo showed the original claim that this belief is fallacious is itself based on a statistical mistake.
Besides the clustering illusion, Gilovich et al. attribute the hot hand fallacy in part to the “confirmation” type of this phenomenon, in which agents systematically deviate from rational behavior.
Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman helped begin a research program on biases and these mental shortcuts that can lead to biases when applied to complex problems. One example is the “availability” kind.
hot hand fallacy
cognitive bias [or cognitive biases; accept confirmation bias]
heuristics &lt;Kothari&gt;
The “broken windows” theory has been used to justify a controversial “stop-and-frisk” policy in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the largest in the United States, where the Tri-Borough Bridge connects Manhattan, Queens, and the Bronx.
The Tri-Borough Bridge was built under the direction of this man, whom Robert Caro profiled in The Power Broker. Despite never holding elected office, he built many large public works projects around New York City.
This journalist vigorously opposed Moses’s planned Lower Manhattan Expressway. Her book The Death and Life of Great American Cities is a pioneering text in urban planning.
New York City
Robert Moses
Jane Jacobs
Answer the following about a British anthropologist, for 10 points each:
This man’s Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic Among the Azande, as well as his studies of the Nuer people in the Nile region, were foundational to 20th century social anthropology.
Evans-Pritchard wrote a book about “primitive” ones of these systems, in which he outlines Nuer theology, despite the lack of a written liturgy. Emile Durkheim wrote about the Elementary Forms of [this kind of] Life.
In The Azande: History and Political Institutions, Evans-Pritchard described Gbudwe [“ge-bood-wey”], one of these people. In The Golden Bough, James Frazer describes how old religions linked these people with solar deities.
Edward Evan Evans-Pritchard
religion [or religious life; accept Theories of Primitive Religion or Elementary Forms of Religious Life]
kings [or rulers; or monarchs; or similar answers]
This linguist found increased articulation of the molar “r” in New York City department stores catering to the upper class. For 10 points each:
Name this University of Pennsylvania linguist who founded variationist sociolinguistics, which studies how features of language reflect underlying social structure.
Labov advocates for the de-stigmatization of a dialect of American English spoken by this largely urban group. Their namesake Vernacular English features multiple negation, existential “be”, and “ain’t” as a general negation.
Speakers of AAVE are often bi-dialectal, meaning they can change between AAVE and Standard American English. This two-word term describes that alternation of dialects or languages during discourse.
William Labov
African-Americans [accept blacks or black people]
code-switching
An important concept in this branch of linguistics is the cooperative principle, which can determine the implications people make in conversation. For 10 points each:
Name this subfield of linguistics that studies meaning. It is often contrasted with syntax.
This Russian linguist and pioneer of phonology defined six functions of language, including referential, emotive, and metalingual functions.
Another notable linguist is this MIT professor and “father of modern linguistics.” He developed generative grammar, which claims that most knowledge of grammar is innate.
semantics [accept pragmatics]
Roman Osipovich Jakobson
Avram Noam Chomsky
The law of the “diminishing marginal” type of this concept states that as the amount consumed of a commodity increases, this concept decreases. For 10 points each:
Name this concept referring to the satisfaction received from consuming a good or service.
Utility is constant along these curves, which illustrate combinations of goods that are interchangeable to consumers.
Named for the developer of indifference curves, this quadrilateral construct combines indifference curves to illustrate how a Pareto-optimal distribution of goods between two consumers can be achieved.
utility
indifference curves
Edgeworth box
This essay frequently returns to the story of Clyde Ross, a Chicagoan activist against redlining and racially restrictive covenants. For 10 points each:
Name this 2014 Ta-Nehisi [“tah neh-HAH-see”] Coates essay that lays out the struggles of the African-American community and argues that America must “reckon with [its] compounding moral debts.”
“The Case for Reparations” was published in this American magazine. It began as a literary magazine edited by James Russell Lowell that was the first to publish “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”
Much of Ta-Nehisi Coates’ writing focuses on his upbringing in this city. In 2015, riots broke out in this Maryland city over the death of Freddie Gray in police custody.
“The Case for Reparations”
The Atlantic [or The Atlantic Monthly]
Baltimore, Maryland
This language’s alphabet includes a letter that extends a preceding sound, and that is depicted as the letter “g” with a breve. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle Eastern language that has been written using Latin script since a 1928 reform.
Turkish harmonizes these sounds according to groupings that class them into front and back varieties. These sounds are produced with an open vocal tract and come in “long” and “short” varieties in English.
Turkish uses this system of word formation extensively. This system adds prefixes or suffixes to stems to form longer words rather than overlaying them.
Turkish [or Turkce]
vowels
agglutination [or word forms like agglutinative]
This foodstuff was the subject of an experiment in which children could choose to receive one of them immediately or two if they waited for a short time. For 10 points each:
Name this sweet that Walter Mischel used to study the effects of delayed gratification. The ability to delay gratification was later correlated with higher SAT scores.
Mischel authored a controversial 1968 book on this subject in psychology critiquing the “trait” approach towards its study, which uses assessments like the popular Myers-Briggs test.
Hans Eysenck attributed this member of the “Big Five” personality factors to higher limbic system activity in individuals with it, who are more susceptible to stress and thus express negative affect and anxiety.
marshmallows [or Stanford marshmallow experiment]
personality psychology [or word forms like “personalities”]
neuroticism [or neurotic personality; or word forms like neurosis]
Answer the following about Polynesian settlement of South America, for 10 points each.
The Rapa Nui people of this island are descendants of Polynesian settlers. It is home to some famous moai stone heads.
This Norwegian explorer postulated that the Rapa Nui actually arrived from South America, not Polynesia. He attempted to prove his point by sailing on the Kon-Tiki across the Pacific Ocean from Peru.
On Easter Island, Rapa Nui elites could achieve this title by winning a race to collect an egg from a nearby island. This title’s namesake cult was eliminated by Christian missionaries in the 19th century.
Easter Island
Thor Heyerdahl
birdman [or tangata manu]
Answer the following about a type of learning, for 10 points each.
This type of learning primarily takes place in a “critical period” shortly after birth. The Westermarck effect is an example of this type of learning.
This student of Oskar Heinroth popularized the study of imprinting through experiments on greylag geese.
The Westermarck effect proposes that familiarity during childhood results in a lack of sexual attraction to prevent this activity. The prevalence of this activity among European nobility caused many genetic abnormalities.
imprinting [or word forms like imprinted]
Konrad Lorenz
inbreeding [or word forms like inbred; or incest]
Answer the following about a cognitive process, for 10 points each.
Recent evidence suggests that sleep facilitates effective use of this mental system. The “long-term” type of this faculty records both facts and information about how to do things so that both can be used again much later.
Long-term memory is often contrasted with this memory system that permits active, ongoing manipulation and organization of visual and verbal information.
Baddeley and Hitch’s three-part model of the working memory includes this system that mentally simulates repeating verbal information. It complements the visuospatial sketchpad and the episodic buffer.
memory
working memory [prompt on “short-term memory”]
phonological loop [or articulatory loop or articulatory rehearsal component]
Answer the following about how the free market works, for 10 points each.
Adam Smith coined this two-word term as a metaphor for how the free market regulates itself by guiding individual actors towards a common goal.
This term describes outcomes of an economic transaction that affect parties not involved in the transaction. Examples include pollution and public education.
This economist’s namesake theorem states that if transaction costs are low enough, externalities will be resolved efficiently through private transactions.
the invisible hand
externalities [accept positive externalities or negative externalities]
Ronald Coase
Noted economist Pope Francis called the “unbridled” form of this system the “dung of the devil.” FTPE:
What economic system is characterized by free markets and private interests?
This French economist warned of what he calls patrimonial capitalism, in which a small number of families control much of a nation’s wealth, in his 2013 book Capital in the Twenty-First Century.
Proponents of unbridled capitalism often use this two-word French phrase, meaning roughly “let it be,” to refer to governmental non-interference in private industry and trade.
capitalism
Thomas Piketty
laissez-faire
A book about this subject focuses on the way that the exchange of objects between groups build relationships. For ten points each:
Identify this type of item, exchanged during the Native American potlatch ceremony, which titles a Marcel Mauss book.
This founder of American academic anthropology studied the practice of potlatch among the Kwakiutl [kwah-kee-OOTL], which led him to develop the concept of cultural relativism.
This Polish anthropologist examined the Trobiand islanders and discussed the kula ring in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
gifts
Franz Boas
Bronislaw Malinowski
Sigmund Freud called these entities the “royal road to the unconscious.” FTPE:
Freud titled a book for his efforts to interpret the latent content behind the manifest content of what mental experiences?
One famous patient of Freud, Sergei Pankjieff, takes his nickname from a dream he had of seeing six white examples of this animal in a tree, not a place one would usually find them.
Freud analyzed his own dream about this female patient of his, known only by her first name, involving her injection with an unclean syringe.
dreams
wolf or wolves
Irma
This psychologist and Barbel Inhelder ran an experiment in which they asked participants to draw a picture of a diorama of a mountain from the point of view of someone inside it. FTPE:
Name this psychologist who pioneered the field of “genetic epistemology” and developed a four-stage model of cognitive development.
This is the second stage of Piaget’s model, and for most children, lasts from ages two to seven.  Children in this stage do not yet understand concrete logic and are unable to see things from another person’s point of view.
This other psychologist developed theories of human cultural development, and differentiated between the tasks a person can do unaided and those he can only do with help in his Zone of Proximal Development.
Jean Piaget
pre-operational
Lev Vygotsky
This quantity rises to the right when plotted on a graph with price as the y-axis and quantity as the x-axis. FTPE:
What is this term for the amount of a good produced, which increases as demand increases?
One “product” for which supply curve doesn’t always increase when price increases is the so-called “backward bending” curve for this expenditure of human effort.
A central tenet of supply-side economics is this eponymous curve, which suggests that government revenues will increase if tax rates are reduced, an idea which sets Jeb Bush prancing.
supply
labor
Laffer Curve
This phenomenon was studied in one case by Latane and Darley by having smoke appear under a door and seeing whether subjects were more likely to report it alone or with others. FTPE:
What “effect” posits that people are less likely to intervene to help another person when other people who are not helping are nearby?
Latane and Darley were prompted to study the bystander effect after the notorious murder of this woman in 1964; her rape and murder was originally said to have been witnessed by 38 people who wouldn’t even call the police, though the initial story has been mostly debunked.
The bystander effect is a specific example of the larger concept of the “diffusion of” this feeling, the sense that one has a stake in the outcome of a situation.
bystander effect (accept bystander apathy)
Kitty Genovese
responsibility
In the 19th century, Cesare [CHE-zah-rey] Lombroso believed he could identify people who would perpetrate this action by their atavistic qualities. FTPE:
Sociologists define what term as a violation of social norms that specifically involves breaking the law?
This term characterizes behaviors that are not crime but violate social norms, mores, or taboos. The term itself suggests it means behaviors that are off the normal path.
This French sociologist argued that crime is a necessary social function because it reinforces social mores. He also studied suicide and wrote The Division of Labor in Society.
crime
deviance
Emile Durkheim
The 1976 book The Uses of Enchantment studies these stories as psychological guides. FTPE:
What kinds of originally oral stories were collected by the Grimm brothers and include works like “Little Red Riding Hood” and “Rapunzel”?
The author of The Uses of Enchantment was this Austrian psychologist, a Holocaust survivor.
Bettelheim reads this classic tale as representing a child’s anxiety over separation from his parents, arguing that the title siblings’ ability to use their wits to survive being abandoned in the woods and threatened by a cannibalistic witch provides comfort to children.
fairy tales or fairy stories
Bruno Bettelheim
Hansel and Gretel
James Coleman was a badass American sociologist. Name some things he worked on, for 10 points each.
The 1966 Coleman report showed that the achievements of these entities are not so much correlated with funding as they are with the socioeconomic background of their students.
Coleman spent most of his career at this university, which established the first Sociology department in the US. Ernest Burgess, an earlier researcher at this university, developed the concentric zone model of urban activity.
Coleman also made important contributions in extending this paradigm, which seeks to explain how people evaluate costs and benefits of their decisions, into sociological research.
primary schools
University of Chicago
rational choice theory [prompt on partials like “rationality”]
A 1961 book about these places includes the essay “Notes on the Tinkering Trade” and describes them as “total institutions”, while Michel Foucault critiqued them for blending the goals of “curing” and “confining” in <em>Madness and Civilization</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify these places, many American examples of which were established thanks to the 19th-century campaigns of Dorothea Dix.
The aforementioned 1961 book, Asylums, was written by this Canadian sociologist who developed his theory of “dramaturgical analysis” of behavior in his book The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life.
This man employed several healthy confederates to feign auditory hallucinations in order to be admitted to mental hospitals in an experiment later published in Science under the title “On Being Sane in Insane Places”.
mental asylums [or mental hospitals; or psychiatric hospitals/wards; or lunatic asylums; or other obvious synonyms]
Erving Goffman
David Rosenhan
A dismal bonus for a dismal science -- answer the following about eponymous laws of economics, for 10 points each.
A law named for Thomas Gresham states that the bad variety of this concept tends to drive out the good variety. Different parts of an economy’s supply of this thing are classified as M1, M2, M3, et cetera.
According to the law named for this French economist, values of excess market demands or supplies must sum to zero. He developed the marginal theory of value independently of Carl Menger and William Stanley Jevons.
This Minnesota-born developer of a namesake T-square distribution lends his name to a law, also known as the “principle of minimum differentiation”, that states that it is rational for producers to make their products as similar as possible.
money
Léon Walras [or Marie-Esprit-Léon Walras]
Harold Hotelling
This thinker asserted that artistic skill was a product of insanity in <em>The Man of Genius</em> and wrote about how totally legit mediums were in <em>After Death - What?</em> after getting suckered by Eusapia Palladino. For 10 points each:
Identify this Italian author of The Criminal Man, which introduced his theory of criminal atavism and became a founding text of modern criminology.
Lombroso thought that atavistic, or “born” criminals, bore physical as well as psychological resemblances to this extinct species of human, named for the valley in Germany in which they were discovered.
Lombroso’s ideas about the physical characteristics of criminals were torn apart by Charles Goring’s 1913 study of convicts in this country. Friedrich Engels wrote an 1845 study of the condition of its working class.
Cesare Lombroso [or Ezechia Marco Lombroso]
Neanderthals [or Neandertals; or Homo (sapiens) neanderthalensis]
England [or the United Kingdom, or Great Britain]
Jean Tirole, the winner of the 2014 Nobel prize in Economics, has written a popular textbook in this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field within economics which seeks to study how firms respond to market structures and competitions, how firms deal with regulation and policy, and how firms might structure their governance.
Edward Chamberlin, an early contributor to Industrial Organization, developed this model in which firms produce similar, but not perfectly substitutable products. Agents don’t have perfect information in this model.
IO economists may study these goods which the consumer has to purchase and use before they can ascertain its value. They are contrasted with “search goods” and “persuasive” rather than “informative” advertising is used to market these goods.
Industrial organization economics [or IO]
monopolistic competition [or MC]
experience goods
Answer the following about research methods in ethnography, for 10 points each.
Historically, many researchers embedded themselves directly in a studied group in a practice called participant observation. One of the pioneers of that technique was this woman, whose major works include the questionable Coming of Age in Samoa.
In The Interpretation of Cultures, Clifford Geertz used this term borrowed from Gilbert Ryle to refer to his analyses of human behavior that explained both the behavior itself and its context.
The linguist Kenneth Pike coined this pair of terms to refer to two types of research: those that obtain information from the perspective of the subject and those that concern the perspective of the observer.
Margaret Mead
thick description
emic and etic [prompt on partial answer]
This man invented the stopwatch time study of work efficiency, which Frank Gilbreth later developed into the time and motion study. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker whose work at Midvale Steel Works and Bethlehem Steel led to his creation of the field of “scientific management”.
Taylor’s scientific management is sometimes seen as an extreme application of the division of labor, which was explained through the metaphor of a pin factory in the opening chapter of this Adam Smith book.
Taylor’s work inspired management theorist Peter Drucker, whose work is especially popular in this country, the origin of just-in-time production. An automotive manufacturer in this country invented a style of “lean management” called “TPS”.
Frederick Winslow Taylor
The Wealth of Nations [or An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations]
Japan [or Nihon-koku; or Nippon-koku]
William Nordhaus developed the DICE and RICE models to understand the costs and benefits of responses to this phenomenon, whose economic impacts were projected by the Stern Review using tools like SRES scenarios. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, responses to which are often divided into mitigation or adaptation. Factors affecting this phenomenon are related by the Kaya identity.
In studying climate change, Nordhaus supports linking discount rates to this quantity, whose real and nominal varieties are linked by the Fisher equation. This is a percentage of a principal that borrowers pay to lenders over a given time period.
As a public good, climate change mitigation is subject to this problem, in which parties refuse to pay for resources or services from which they benefit, resulting in under-provision.
global warming [or climate change; prompt on related answers like “greenhouse effect”]
interest rate
free rider problem
In <em>A General Theory of Magic</em>, Marcel Mauss and Henri Hubert argue this concept is universal using analogies with <em>orenda</em>, <em>hau</em>, and <em>manitou</em>, which were contested by people like Ian Hogbin and Mircea Eliade. For 10 points each:
Name this concept in Pacific Island cultures, first described by Robert Codrington, denoting spiritual power accumulating in people, places, or things. Raymond Firth describes it as a bearer of prestige.
This French anthropologist used mana as an example of a “floating signifier” lacking a stable referent. He used the term “mytheme” to denote basic units of myth and distinguished the engineer from the primitive bricoleur.
In this Polynesian archipelago, there were two paths to mana, war and marriage, represented by the gods Ku and Lono. King Kamehameha II broke kapu codes of conduct on this chain, whose traditions include the hula dance.
mana
Claude Lévi-Strauss
Hawai’i [or the Hawai’ian Islands]
Widely-used tools created by this man include namesake self-reporting scales for hopelessness, suicidal ideation, anxiety, and depression. For 10 points each:
Name this former UPenn psychiatrist who theorized a “cognitive triad” that explains the three major types of negative thoughts held by depressed people while developing a common type of cognitive behavioral therapy.
Beck’s work on depression inspired Martin Seligman’s formulation of this theory of behavior, which he originally developed in experiments where dogs subjected to electric shocks eventually became convinced they couldn’t escape them.
Seligman’s findings directly contradicted the suppositions of behaviorism, which was pioneered by this American psychologist who invented a namesake operant conditioning chamber and wrote Walden Two.
Aaron Beck [or Aaron Temkin Beck]
learned helplessness theory
B.F. Skinner [or Burrhus Frederic Skinner]
Richard Atkinson and Richard Schiffrin developed a multi-store model of this concept, while Baddeley’s model of it involves a visuospatial sketchpad and a phonological loop. For 10 points each:
Name this human capacity, often divided into recognition and recall types. George Miller theorized that humans could hold seven, plus or minus two, elements in the short-term or working version of it.
This German psychologist’s landmark study On Memory introduced the spacing effect and the learning and forgetting curves.
Ebbinghaus built on Ewald Hering’s work with a double-pyramid model explaining this other human ability, which can also be evaluated by tests that use diagrams designed by Shinobu Ishihara.
memory [accept types like “short-term memory” or “working memory”
Hermann Ebbinghaus
color vision [or color perception; or even color blindness; or anything that indicates human perception of color; prompt on “vision” or “perception” or equivalents]
In the prisoner’s dilemma, implicating the other agent is this type of strategy. For 10 points each:
Name these strategies, for which the payoff is always greater than it is for pursuing any other strategy regardless of the strategy pursued by the other agent.
This situation results when the prisoners pursue the dominant strategy in the prisoner’s dilemma; in this situation, each player’s decision is the best response to each other player’s strategy.
An extension of Nash equilibrium called quantal response equilibrium seeks to incorporate this phenomenon into the strategy profiles of players. The lambda parameter of the McKelvey-Palfrey QRE model captures this phenomenon.
dominant strategies [or word forms; do NOT accept “dominaTED strategies”; accept “weak(ly) dominant” or “strict(ly) dominant” ]
Nash equilibrium
probabilistic strategies [or “probability of committing an error” or “probability of being irrational” or “probability of being random”; accept “randomness”; prompt on “non-deterministic” or word forms]
The holophrastic and telegraphic stages occur during this process, the study of which is aided by a database founded by Catherine Snow and Brian MacWhinney. For 10 points each:
Identify this process that Steven Pinker suggested is instinctual in a 1994 book. B.F. Skinner argued that it worked through a form of operant condition in his book Verbal Behavior.
Skinner’s behaviorist arguments about language acquisition were savaged by this MIT linguist, the author of Syntactic Structures, who instead proposed that a “universal grammar” might be responsible.
Jerome Bruner attempted to explain oral language acquisition by developing scaffolding theory, which was based on this concept of Lev Vygotsky. This concept refers to the things a learner cannot do by themselves, but can do with guidance.
first language acquisition [accept synonyms like “learning a first language”; do not accept anything relating to learning an additional language]
Noam Chomsky [or Avram Noam Chomsky]
the Zone of Proximal Development [or ZPD]
In a two-person economy, the person who holds a lower value for this quantity for a good is said to hold  a comparative advantage for that good. For 10 points each: 
Identify this type of cost that is defined as the amount of potential production of one good given up  by a producer when she or he decides to produce a different good. 
A high opportunity cost translates to a steep slope on this curve, which depicts the maximum  amount of production of two goods that an economy can maintain, at different levels of each good. 
A concave production possibilities curve may indicate a situation described by this three-word  phrase, which refers to circumstances in which the average cost of a product decreases as more of the  product is produced.
opportunity costs 
production possibility frontier [or production possibility curve; or PPF; or PPC] 
an economy of scale [or word forms]
The committee that oversees these actions determines the federal funds target rate. For 10 points each: 
Give this term which refers to the sale or purchase of government bonds by the central bank for the  purpose of interest rate targeting. 
The Open Market Committee is a group within this body. This body is the central bank of the United  States, and it was established by a 1913 act. 
Open market operations are the main tool in the type of policy named for this thing, which expands  or contracts the supply of this thing in the economy. The quantity theory of it relates the amount and the  velocity of this thing. 
open market operations [or OMOs] 
Federal Reserve System [or the Fed] 
money 
The Greek letter pi is commonly used to represent this economic quantity. For 10 points each: 
Name this quantity that is the dependent variable of the downward-sloping Phillips curve, with  unemployment rate serving as the independent variable. It refers to an increase in price level and  decrease in purchasing power. 
This University of Chicago economist, the author of A Monetary History of the United States,  asserted that the Phillips curve is only valid in the short term. He advocated free market policies in the  book Capitalism and Freedom. 
This equation defines inflation rate as equal to the nominal interest rate minus the real interest rate.  It is named after an American economist who is also known for a namesake separation theorem. 
inflation
Milton Friedman
Fisher equation
This linguist divided language into two components, langue, referring to the system of language rules, and parole, referring to the instances of their use. For 10 points each: 
Name this Swiss linguist, whose lectures were compiled in his book Course in General Linguistics. 
Saussure proposed this theory that posited the existence of some no longer used consonants in the ancient Proto-Indo-European language. 
Saussure defined this concept as a "double entity" composed of the signified and the signifier. He defined language as a system of these entities that express an idea. 
Ferdinand de Saussure 
laryngeal theory 
signs [or signe] 
A school of economic thought named after this man was founded by Piero Sraffa and attempted to improve this man's labor theory of value. For 10 points each: 
Name this British political economist who wrote Principles of Political Economy and Taxation. He opposed the Corn Laws and came up with the theory of comparative advantage. 
This other 19th century British economist wrote about the supposedly-inevitable overtaking of the food supply by exponential population growth in his An Essay on the Principle of Population. 
This British economist made key contributions to the theory of marginal utility. He is also known for suggesting that coal extraction would reach a peak level in his book The Coal Question. 
David Ricardo 
Thomas Robert Malthus 
William Stanley Jevons 
This University of Pennsylvania professor used the acronym PERMA to outline values in positive psychology. For 10 points each: 
Name this psychologist who showed that animals that are repeatedly given electric shocks will later submit to the electric shocks even when given a chance to escape. He named that phenomenon "learned helplessness." 
Seligman's experiments used these animals. Ivan Pavlov made a breakthrough while studying the salivary responses of these animals. 
Pavlov's dogs learned to salivate in response to the sound of a bell; that learning is an example of this phenomenon. 
Martin Seligman 
dogs [or any specific kind of dog] 
classical conditioning [accept respondent conditioning; or word forms like "they were classically conditioned"; prompt on "conditioning"; do not accept "operant conditioning"] 
A book about this subject distinguishes economies based on these items from ones that involve "total prestation." For 10 points each:
Identify this type of item, which is the title of a book by Marcel Mauss examining customs like the Native American potlatch and the Maori hau.
This Polish anthropologist described the Kula ring and stressed the importance of participant observation in his book Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
In the Kula ring, two ceremonial items called veigun and mwal, which were these types of items, were exchanged. Name either type; they are made of white shells and red shells respectively, and were passed in opposite directions.
gifts
Bronislaw [Kasper] Malinowski
necklaces OR armbands [or similar answers like "bracelets" instead of armband; veigun were necklaces, and mwal were armbands]
William Labov conducted a study of this characteristic by observing how shoppers at different  department stores pronounced the letter "r." For 10 points each: 
Identify this characteristic of language that indicates one's rank in society. A "standard" language is  believed to possess more of this quality than regional dialects. 
Labov's study was conducted in this city, whose regional dialect includes variations like the use of  "on line" instead of "in line." This city's accent has a "coffee vowel" which is prevalent far into eastern  Long Island. 
This term refers to the use of two languages, one formal and one vernacular, in a community. Code- switching occurs in such communities. 
sociolinguistic prestige 
New York City
diglossia [or word forms like diglossic] 
This thinker argues that shareholder influence has given way to managerial power, a form of "accepted fraud" in his final essay The Economics of Innocent Fraud. For 10 points each: 
Name this Canadian-American economist who authored The New Industrial State and coined the term "conventional wisdom" in The Affluent Society. 
Chapter 11 of The Affluent Society concerns this phenomenon, in which consumers desire increase to the point that luxuries become necessities. Hayek criticized it in his essay "The Non Sequitur of [this effect]". 
Galbraith also wrote an economic history of the "Great Crash" in this year. Galbraith argued that the stock market crash of October 28th and 29th of this year played a major role in the onset of the Great Depression 
John Kenneth Galbraith 
dependence effect  
1929 [prompt on "29"] 
This psychologist developed "puzzle boxes" to test whether animals could learn from trial and error. For 10 points each: 
Name this man, sometimes called the father of educational psychology, who formulated a "law of effect."
This man created a namesake "taxonomy" of educational objectives that lists knowledge as the bottom tier, and evaluation and synthesis on the top tier. 
 Besides researching how people learn, educational psychologists also are interested in measurement of this concept, whose "quotient" is purportedly measured by the Stanford-Binet and Wechsler tests. 
Edward Lee Thorndike 
Benjamin Samuel Bloom 
intelligence 
Answer the following about the study of child psychology, for 10 points each. 
This Stanford professor studied how toddlers exhibited greater aggression after seeing adults act aggressively in his Bobo doll experiment. 
The Bobo doll experiment was a foundational study of the "social" type of this developmental process. The social form of this process describes how it can be accomplished through observation without any reinforcement.
This Soviet Russian psychoanalyst described "zones of proximal development" that define what children can do with or without outside help in the learning process. 
Albert Bandura
learning [accept word forms] 
Lev Semyonovich Vygotsky 
The "grim trigger" strategy for this situation calls for cooperation until the other player defects for the first time, after which the first player defects for every other iteration. For 10 points each:
Name this scenario, proposed by RAND corporation researchers Merrill Flood and Melvin Dresher, in which two people can choose to stay silent or betray each other in hopes of decreasing their sentences. 
John von Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern founded this field with an influential 1944 book. The prisoner's dilemma is a classic scenario in this field that models decision making in competitive activities. 
Anatol Rapoport came up with this winning strategy for iterated versions of prisoner's dilemma. It calls for doing exactly what the other side did in the previous iteration. 
prisoner's dilemma 
game theory 
tit for tat strategy 
Identify the following about Latin terms used in legal terminology, for 10 points each. 
This prerogative writ is granted by the Supreme Court of the United States when it reviews a case  from a lower court. This term translates as "apprise" or "inform." 
Granted to Guantanamo inmates in Boumediene v. Bush, this other prerogative writ requires a  detaining jurisdiction to show why it should keep a person prisoner. This term translates as "you may  have the body." 
Prerogative writs are sometimes called this kind of writ. This term refers to a type of law defined by  judges in respect of precedent, following the principle of stare decisis. It is distinguished from civil law,  and is followed in the U.S. and Britain. 
certiorari [or writ of certiorari] 
habeas corpus [or writ of habeas corpus] 
common law [or case law] 
This man worked with his wife Alva on the book Crisis in the Population Question, which proposed  solutions to Sweden's low birth rate. For 10 points each: 
Name this Swedish economist whom the Carnegie Foundation supported in writing a study of race  relations in the U.S., titled An American Dilemma. That book was cited in Brown v. Board of Education. 
Gunnar Myrdal won a Nobel Prize alongside an economist from this country. This country's  namesake school of economics focused on individual choice and included Ludwig von Mises and Murray Rothbard. 
Myrdal shared his Nobel with this Austrian economist, who warned that collectivism and central  planning will inevitably lead to the loss of freedom and the rise of totalitarianism, in his book The Road  to Serfdom. 
Gunnar Myrdal [or Karl Gunnar Myrdal] 
Republic of Austria [or Republik Ã–sterreich] 
Friedrich August von Hayek 
While serving in Algeria, this man conducted a study of the Kabyle peoples that formed the basis for his  book about the sociology of Algeria. For 10 points each: 
Name this sociologist who discussed how cultural capital and differences in taste strengthened class  divisions in his book Distinction and detailed his ethnographic findings in Outline of a Theory of Practice. 
A Bourdieu essay titled "On [this medium]" attacked it for threatening democracy through "invisible  censorship" of news programs. Bourdieu argued that the "commercial plebiscite" of audience ratings  makes this medium mediocre. 
Because it engages multiple senses at low levels, television is considered a "cool" medium  according to this man's book Understanding Media. This Canadian intellectual coined the phrase "the  medium is the message." 
Pierre Bourdieu
television [or TV] 
Marshall McLuhan [or Herbert Marshall McLuhan]
One issue in the phonology of these languages is the historical development of "weak" vowels called yers. 
Name this group of languages that includes Bulgarian, Polish, Czech, and Russian.
The Slavic languages are a subset of this language family. Other members of this family include Celtic languages like Welsh, and Germanic languages like English.
Many Slavic languages, including Russian, are written in the Cyrillic alphabet, which is the successor to this alphabet invented by Cyril and Methodius.
Slavic languages
Indo-European languages
Glagolitic
This condition often occurs due to head trauma or brain damage, and was famously observed in a patient named Henry Molaison. 
Identify this loss of memory that can come in anterograde and retrograde forms.
Anterograde amnesia often occurs due to damage in this part of the brain, which is responsible for consolidating new memories.
Amnesia usually does not affect this type of memory, which is retrieved subconsciously and used to automatically do tasks that integrate cognitive and motor skills like driving or reading.
amnesia
hippocampus
procedural memory
This woman wrote a book that described the so-called "Problem That Has No Name." 
Name this woman who helped launch second-wave feminism by describing the frustrations of suburban housewives in her book The Feminine Mystique.
Friedan was the first president of this group, formed in 1966 to bring women "into equal partnership with men."
An oft-heard request of NOW and other feminist groups was that "equal work" would result in this for women. In the U.S., a clear gap between men and women persists involving this statistic.
Betty Friedan [or Bettye Goldstein]
NOW [or National Organization for Women]
equal pay [accept any answer indicating that pay between men and women should be equal]
This concept was first introduced in its creator's book Theory of Moral Sentiments. 
Identify this metaphor that captures the idea that the self-interested nature of the market seamlessly promotes the interest of the nation at large.
The invisible hand metaphor was created by this Scottish thinker, who laid the foundation for capitalism and the field of economics in his masterpiece The Wealth of Nations.
Adam Smith promoted the free market in opposition to this economic system. He coined this system's English name and believed that it gave too much power to the royal state.
invisible hand
Adam Smith
mercantile system [accept word forms like "mercantilism"]
The "transactions" form of this quantity can be calculated using the formula PT over M. 
Identify this term that refers to how fast money passes from one person to another.
Velocity of money can be calculated by dividing the nominal GDP by this other quantity. M1, M2, and M3 are all representations of this quantity.
In general, supply curves are often plotted with curves of this type. These curves are typically downwards sloping since desire for goods decreases as price increases.
velocity of money
money supply [or supply of money; prompt on "supply"]
demand
This landmark experiment provided disturbing insights into people's willingness to submit to a figure of authority. 
Name this experiment in which participants were asked to administer increasingly painful shocks to a confederate, despite the confederate's pleas for mercy.
Stanley Milgram was mentored by Solomon Asch, who worked on this psychological concept. This term refers to the act of matching one's behavior and attitudes to that of a group.
In Asch's conformity experiment, subjects were tasked with comparing this type of geometric quantity.
Stanley Milgram's obedience experiment [accept either]
conformity
length of a line [accept equivalents like "how long a line is"; prompt on just "length"]
To err is human; to forgive, divine. 
Name this verb form exemplified by "to err" and "to forgive." Your elementary-school grammar teacher may have told you to not split them.
In Latin, infinitives could be used as nominals only if they were in the nominative case. Otherwise, this other verb form was used, as in the phrase "Tempus est iocundum."
Another use of infinitives in Latin was in indirect statements. Indirect questions, on the other hand, used this non-indicative verbal mood.
infinitives
gerund [do not accept "gerundive"]
subjunctive
This philosopher outlined an understanding of gender in terms of "performativity" in her essay Performative Acts and Gender Constitution. 
Name this UC Berkeley gender theorist who argued that bodily acts establish an ontological or "core" gender in the book Gender Trouble.
This other gender theorist stated that women were "the privileged Other" in "Facts and Myths," the first volume of her magnum opus, The Second Sex.
Butler and de Beauvoir are considered major proponents of this movement, which promotes equality for women. It is typically divided into a first, a second, and a current third wave.
Judith Butler
Simone de Beauvoir
feminism [accept word forms like feminist movement, etc.]
This man's namesake dichotomy makes a distinction between institutions and technology. 
Name this economist, the author of Theory of the Leisure Class. He also names a type of good whose demand is proportional to its price, such as a luxury handbag or fancy wine.
Veblen worked at this university for 14 years, during which he published Theory of the Leisure Class. Other economists from this school include Ronald Coase and Milton Friedman.
One of Veblen's contributions to economics was this concept, which can be 'invidious' when done to provoke envy and has recently been applied to large public charity donations.
Thorstein Bunde Veblen
University of Chicago
conspicuous consumption
This anthropologist compared the bricoleur and the engineer in his landmark work The Savage Mind. 
Name this French anthropologist who pioneered structuralist anthropology. He believed that cultures and human thoughts were governed by universal, homologous structures.
Part of LÃ©vi-Strauss' book Tristes Tropiques covers his interactions with the Bororo people in the Mato Grosso region of this country, whose Amazon rainforests are home to the Yanomami.
In The Elementary Structure of Kinship, LÃ©vi-Strauss theorized that exogamous behavior is driven by this taboo, whose "horror" titles a Freud essay.
Claude LÃ©vi-Strauss
Federative Republic of Brazil [or RepÃºblica Federativa do Brasil]
incest taboo
Inventories of these units can be expressed with the help of the IPA. 
Identify this smallest linguistic unit of sound. Different phonetic realizations of a single one of these units, like the two different "p" sounds in "peak" and "speak," are known as allophones.
This is the term for two words that differ only by a single phoneme. For example, the words "bad" and "bed" contrast with respect to one vowel phoneme.
This larger phonological unit minimally consists of a nucleus, which is usually a vowel, and may also include onset and/or coda consonants. These units are further grouped into feet.
phonemes
minimal pair [accept minimal set]
 syllables
On the Trobriand Islands, only chiefs can really participate in this system, while it is open to all men on the island of Dobu. For 10 points each:
Name this ceremonial system in modern day Papua New Guinea in which participants exchange things such as necklaces or armshells. It was studied extensively by Bronislaw Malinowski in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
The Trobriand Islanders, like many societies, have form of taboo against this practice, which consists of sexual relations between blood relatives.
The concept of gift exchange was analyzed in The Gift by Marcel Mauss. Mauss claimed that the gift was this two word object which had “spiritual mechanisms” affecting both giver and receiver. As this term implies, the gift represents all of a specific society.
Kula ring
incest
total prestation [or prestation totale]
This book popularized the term “conventional wisdom.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1958 book which described rampant income disparity in the postwar United States. The author notes that the private, not public sector, is becoming wealthy. Many of the ideas appear in the author’s later book, The New Industrial State.
A much earlier book on the “affluent society” in the United States was Theory of the Leisure Class by this thinker, who did his undergraduate work at Carleton College.
This 1962 Michael Harrington book also described income inequality within the United States. This book is credited with instigating Lyndon Johnson’s War on Poverty and Medicaid programs.
The Affluent Society
Thorstein Veblen
The Other America
This theory was first introduced in an article by James Wilson and George Kelling. For 10 points each:
Name this theory about crime prevention which, using a different analogy than its namesake, suggests that people tend to litter more if they see litter already on a pavement. Philip Zimbardo demonstrated it by parking an already vandalized car in Palo Alto.
An application of broken windows theory is an attempt to remove instances of this phenomenon from cities, some of which have been created by such people as Banksy and Basquiat.
The broken windows theory has been used to justify the “stop and frisk program” ongoing in this city, whose current mayor, Bill de Blasio, appointed “stop and frisk” guru Bill Bratton to be its Police Commissioner.
broken windows theory
works of graffiti [or street art, prompt on tags]
New York City [or NYC]
Rollo May wrote that this school of thought was overly authoritarian. For 10 points each:
Name this school of therapy founded on the belief that the driving force in people is to find meaning in their lives. It was appropriately outlined in Viktor Frankl’s book Man’s Search for Meaning.
Man’s Search for Meaning is primarily about Frankl’s experiences in one of these institutions, in which he noted that numerous people experienced depersonalization and lost the will to live without meaning.
Aspects of logotherapy are similar to this theory created by Abraham Maslow that organizes human concerns into a pyramid, with physiological concerns at the bottom. People who have satisfied all of their concerns are said to be “self-actualized.”
logotherapy [prompt on psychotherapy]
a concentration camp [prompt on prison camp or jail]
hierarchy of needs
One of these animals, Britches, was infamously used to test a sonar device called the Trisensor Aid before he was released by the Animal Liberation Front. For 10 points each:
Give the general animal type of Britches. Other animals of this type were placed in the “pit of despair” by Harry Harlow to test clinical depression.
Harlow’s monkeys are not to be confused with a delightfully named chimpanzee, Nim, who was used to test animal language acquisition. Nim’s name parodies that of this MIT linguist and author of Syntactic Structures.
Chomsky outlined his anti-Vietnam War views in a book describing American Power and the New type of these people, a specific type of bureaucrat.
monkeys [or rhesus macaque monkeys; prompt on primates; do not accept “apes” or specific types of apes such as “chimpanzees”]
(Avram) Noam Chomsky
Mandarins
This book is dedicated to “the socialists of all parties.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1940’s book which is meant to warn “of the danger of tyranny that inevitably results from government control of economic decision-making through central planning.” This libertarian text was written by one of the chief leaders of the Austrian school of economics.
The Road to Serfdom’s author, Friedrich von Hayek, taught during the 1950’s at this American university. Its namesake economic school rejects Keynesianism, and includes scholars like Milton Friedman and Ronald Coase.
Hayek and other thinkers formed this think tank in 1947 that is dedicated to free market economic policies. This society is named for a Swiss resort and was originally going to be named the “Acton-Tocqueville” Society.
The Road to Serfdom
University of Chicago
Mont Pelerin Society
Margaret Thatcher’s slogan “There is no alternative” may have been originated by this thinker. For 10 points each:
Name this man who coined the phrase “survival of the fittest.” In books like Social Statics, he popularized the application of evolutionary theory to non-scientific fields, such as within the study of society.
Spencer thus popularized the “social” form of this application of natural selection to sociology. This ideology takes its name from the scientific theorist who proposed evolution.
This other Social Darwinist introduced the term “ethnocentrism” in his 1906 book Folkways. He also wrote an essay about The Forgotten Man and is considered an early libertarian.
Herbert Spencer
Social Darwinism
William Graham Sumner
Answer the following about the “ticking time bomb” scenario in ethics, for 10 points each.
The scenario imagines that a terrorist in custody has knowledge of a ticking time bomb that will go off soon, so the authorities have to decide if that justifies performing these type of acts on the prisoner to make him talk.
This man supported the use of torture in such a scenario in his 2001 article “Want to Torture? Get a Warrant.” This author of Chutzpah wrote the book Reversal of Fortune about his defense of Claus von Bulow for the attempted murder of his wife.
Dershowitz has also been called an apologist for this faction said to have too much power in U.S. foreign policy. It was notoriously discussed in a namesake paper by John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt, the conclusions of which Dershowitz strongly disputed.
torture [prompt on coercive acts]
Alan Dershowitz
The Israel lobby
This man’s first book was a study of popular culture called <em>The Mechanical Bride</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker who also wrote a study of print culture called The Gutenberg Galaxy. He coined the term “global village” and pioneered much of media studies with his text Understanding Media.
McLuhan famously wrote in Understanding Media that the medium was “this,” suggesting that the medium itself influences how we receive information.
Another study of media is this 1985 Neil Postman book mainly focused on television, in which Postman argues that TV is part of a system in which viewers’ rights to information are exchanged for entertainment.
Marshall McLuhan [or Herbert Marshall McLuhan]
message [or the medium is the message; accept massage]
Amusing Ourselves to Death
Two answers required. The usage of these terms in an economic context may have originated in a speech from Senator Ellison D. Smith. For 10 points each:
Name these two commodities frequently modeled on a simple production possibility frontier. These two goods effectively symbolize a nation’s choice between spending resources on defense or civilian goods.
The guns or butter model can be used to indicate national spending as part of this quantity, the market value of goods and services produced within a country in a year. Considered an indicator of standard of living, it should not be confused with the similarly named gross national product.
The question of commodity production efficiency was also examined by this English economist in his 1865 text The Coal Question, in which he argued British supremacy was reliant on a finite supply of coal. His namesake paradox says that as a resource is used more efficiently, it is consumed more.
guns and butter
Gross domestic product [or GDP]
William Stanley Jevons
This experiment was stopped shortly after objections from graduate student Christina Maslach. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment conducted by Philip Zimbardo at a California university, in which he assigned students roles of prisoners or guards. This experiment demonstrated the abuse of authority from people with power.
During the experiment, one especially cruel “guard” received this nickname, a reference to a Hollywood actor, even though he was attempting to copy Strother Martin’s performance from Cool Hand Luke.
Another study conducted at Stanford, this one by Walter Mischel, offered children a small reward immediately or two rewards if they waited for some time, in order to test delayed gratification. The study is commonly known by this name, referring to the foodstuff offered the children.
Stanford prison experiment
“John Wayne” [do not accept other answers, the nickname was “John Wayne”]
Stanford marshmallow experiment
The elements of this type of liability are mens rea, actus reus, concurrence, and causation. For 10 points each:
Name this type of liability that is more serious than tort liability.
At common law, this criminal offense was defined as the breaking and entering of the dwelling of another in the nighttime with intent to commit a felony therein.
This legal concept, which denotes causation that is legally sufficient to warrant punishment, is typically required for criminal liability in addition to "but-for causation."
criminal liability [accept crime or other word forms of "crime"]
burglary [do not accept or prompt on any other answer]
proximate cause [accept word forms of "cause" such as "causation"]
This book discusses why post-World War II America prospered in the private sector while remaining stagnant in the public sector. For 10 points each:
Name this book that coined the term "conventional wisdom" and discussed the dependence effect, in which corporate planning and advertising creates unnecessary wants for Americans because their needs are fulfilled.
This Canadian-American author wrote The New Industrial State as well as The Affluent Society.
Galbraith was influenced by this Norwegian-American thinker, who coined the term "conspicuous consumption" in The Theory of the Leisure Class.
The Affluent Society
John Kenneth Galbraith [accept Ken Galbraith]
Thorstein Bunde Veblen [or Torsten Bunde Veblen]
Otto Jespersen, a Danish linguist and Anglicist, was the first to study an event concerning these sounds. For 10 points each:
Name these sounds pronounced with an open vocal tract. They underwent a "Great Shift" between Middle English and Early Modern English, partly explaining the modern mismatch between spelling and pronunciation.
During the Great Vowel Shift, two long vowels became this sort of sound, in which two adjacent vowel sounds are pronounced as one syllable.
The Great Vowel Shift further exacerbated the differences between English and this group of Dutch-like languages of residents of the North Sea shore. They are still the second-closest relative to English after Scots.
vowels
diphthong [or glide; or gliding vowel]
Frisian languages
In Gang Leader for a Day, "rogue sociologist" Sudhir Venkatesh investigates the gang culture of the "Black Kings" in the Robert Taylor Homes of this city's Bronzeville neighborhood. For 10 points each:
Name this city, home to Jane Addams' Hull House and a school of sociology that included Robert Park.
Chicago School member Ernest Burgess devised a model which suggests that cities are structured by zones of this shape, centering on the central business district and radiating out into the "commuter zone."
The Second Chicago School of sociology centered on the approach of George Herbert Mead, which Herbert Blumer dubbed this kind of "interactionism."
Chicago
concentric circles
symbolic interactionism
In this system, the veigun are traded north and the mwal are traded south. For 10 points each:
Name this system of exchange in Papua New Guinea that is often studied alongside the potlatch.
This Polish anthropologist studied the kula ring in Argonauts of the Western Pacific, based on his studies of the people of the Trobriand Islands.
The study of the kula ring prompted an anthropological debate about economies based on this exchange, which Maurice Leenhardt, a student of another Frenchman, claimed depended on "total prestation" that gives this mechanism spiritual significance.
kula ring [or kula exchange]
Bronislaw (Kasper) Malinowski
gift exchange [accept le don; accept gift-giving and equivalents]
The Marshallian demand function finds the consumption bundle that maximizes this quantity at a given budget constraint. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity whose "marginal" type is the additional benefit of purchasing one more unit of a good.
These utility isoquant curves show bundles of goods between which a given consumer has no preference.
The compensated demand function named for this British economist gives demand derived from the consumer's cost-minimization problem, and is related to Marshallian demand by the Slutsky equation.
utility [accept marginal utility]
indifference curves
Sir John (Richard) Hicks [accept Hicksian demand function]
The leading member of this school of economics argued that wealth arose from agricultural surplus in the 1758 Tableau Economique. For 10 points each:
Name this school of French economists that included Francois Quesnay and Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot and advocated an economic emphasis on agriculture.
The Physiocrats were critics of this economic policy in which a country aims to create a positive trade balance, thereby accumulating monetary reserves.
The Physiocrats believed that all economic value derived from this resource important to agricultural production. This resource is natural capital in the most basic sense.
Physiocrats [accept word forms such as physiocracy]
mercantilism [accept word forms]
land [accept real estate or other logical equivalents]
This man explored "prestige suggestion" by using a quote alternatively attributed to Jefferson and to Lenin. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who conducted a conformity experiment in which people judged the lengths of lines.
Asch was an American member of this German school of psychology, which believes the whole is greater than the sum of its parts and counts Max Wertheimer, Kurt Koffka, and Wolfgang Kohler among its founding members.
Early Gestalt psychologists described this phenomenon, in which a series of rapidly shown objects seems to give the idea of continuous movement when none truly exists.
Solomon (Eliot) Asch
Gestalt psychology
phi phenomenon
Ragnar Frisch coined this term, which names the field of study of 2013 Nobel laureate Lars Peter Hansen. For 10 points each:
Name this term that describes the economic applications of statistics.
Many economic models are based on a linear version of this modeling technique, which creates a line of best fit given empirical data.
This economist, the namesake of an “island model” of the money supply, critiqued overreliance on statistical economic models because they fail to account for policy changes that could be made in light of the model itself.
econometrics
linear regression [accept word forms; accept least-squares regression]
Robert Emerson Lucas Jr. [accept Lucas critique or Lucas island model]
This thinker's "fateful hoaxing" titles a critique by Derek Freeman. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist who studied female dominance in the Tchambuli Lake region in the work Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies.
Mead focused on adolescent girls who deferred marriage for years while enjoying casual sex and described the taupou system in a book about "coming of age" in this island chain.
This advisor of Margaret Mead wrote The Mind of Primitive Man, which challenged claims that intelligence was racially determined.
Margaret Mead
Samoan Islands [accept Coming of Age in Samoa; do not accept "American Samoa"]
Franz Uri Boas
Two words that differ by a single one of these units are called a "minimal pair." For 10 points each:
Name these basic units of meaning within the sound of a language that can be combined to form morphemes or words.
This Russian linguist, who joined Nikolai Trubetzkoy in the Prague School, broke the phonological structure of linguistics down even further, to the level of "distinctive features."
 Phonemes are called cheremes when studying this type of language, whose phonemes are typically visualized in Stokoe notation. Thomas Gallaudet was instrumental in the development of the American one.
phonemes
Roman Osipovich Jakobson
sign languages [accept word forms like signing or signed; accept American Sign Language or ASL]
One thinker from this country wrote that "positive thinking and neo-positivist philosophy" provide support for a technological society that makes us wealthier but not happier. For 10 points each:
Name this country whose philosophers included Walter Benjamin, Theodor Adorno, and Max Horkheimer.
This is the aforementioned thinker, who argued that consumerist society places people in a state of "unfreedom" in One-Dimensional Man. He also wrote Eros and Civilization.
Eros and Civilization alludes to this Austrian psychoanalyst's book Civilization and its Discontents. This man also came up with the Oedipus Complex.
Germany
Herbert Marcuse
Sigmund Freud
This type of economic policy is "neutral" if it affects only prices and not quantity variables. For 10 points each:
Name this type of policy, which uses interest rates, reserve requirements, and discounting, and is sometimes contrasted with fiscal policy.
This advocate of monetary policy co-wrote a Monetary History of the United States with Anna Schwartz and trumpeted free-market principles in his 1962 book Capitalism and Freedom.
This three-word term denotes the mechanism by which a central bank controls interest rates and the money supply by selling securities during monetary contraction and purchasing securities in an expansion.
monetary policy
Milton Friedman
open market operations [accept OMO]
The two-factor theory of these phenomena was developed by Stanley Schachter and Jerome Singer after a study in which college students were injected with epinephrine and placed in different situations. For 10 points each:
Name these phenomena, which include fear, anger, and happiness.
The theory that emotions are the brain's reaction to physiological changes in the body was formulated by Carl Lange and this American psychologist who wrote Principles of Psychology and Varieties of Religious Experience.
This psychological term, which forms the "A" of the "ABC of psychology," describes the experience of feeling or emotion. A heuristic in which a current emotion unduly influences decision making is named for this term.
emotions
William James [accept James-Lange theory]
affect [accept word forms; accept affect heuristic] (Note: it's pronounced "AFF-ect")
This technique is contrasted with B.F. Skinner's "operant" approach.
Name this process by which a neutral stimulus is presented with an unconditioned stimulus to elicit a response.
This Russian psychologist classically conditioned dogs to drool at the ringing of a bell.
If a previously conditioned stimulus no longer elicits a response, then this phenomenon has occurred. Spontaneous recovery may restore a conditioned response following this phenomenon.
classical conditioning [accept word forms of either word; prompt on partial answer]
Ivan [Petrovich] Pavlov
extinction [accept word forms]
Examples of these phenomena include the fundamental attribution error.
Name these patterns of deviation in judgment that lead people to draw illogical conclusions, exemplified by the "confirmation" type in which people only seek out the information they want.
Confirmation bias is a concept from this field of psychology, which examines how the presence of other individuals affects people's thoughts, feelings, and actions.
People use these cognitive shortcuts to make decisions; they result in biases when they deviate systematically from logic, probability, or rationality.
cognitive biases [accept confirmation bias]
social psychology [accept word forms]
heuristics
This thinker relied on common syntactic features to develop x-bar theory.
Name this MIT professor, whose linguistic theory includes both his work Syntactic Structures and his hierarchy of formal languages.
The "poverty of the stimulus" argument belies the Chomskyan notion that humans are born with the innate or "universal" ability to learn these structural rules of language.
Noam Chomsky wrote a book on the "sound pattern" of this language, which can be spoken in a dialect known as Received Pronunciation.
[Avram] Noam Chomsky
universal grammar
English [accept The Sound Pattern of English]
This psychologist claimed that he could train a dozen healthy infants to excel in any profession as adults.
Name this American psychologist who conditioned Little Albert to fear white things.
Watson was an advocate of this school of psychology, whose other major contributors included Ivan Pavlov and B.F. Skinner. It focuses on the conditioning of observable actions.
In this study conducted by Watson and Harvey Carr, rats that were trained to run down a long alley smashed into the wall when the alley was shortened, producing a namesake sound.
John [Broadus] Watson
behaviorism [accept behavioral psychology or other word forms]
kerplunk experiment
James Frazier's The Golden Bough was re-released with a subtitle referring to religion and this practice.
Name this practice, whose key role in farming the coral gardens titles a Bronislaw Malinowski work about the Trobrianders.
Malinowski wrote this 1922 study of the Trobrianders that forms a trilogy with The Coral Gardens and their Magic and The Sexual Life of Savages.
Malinowski is usually credited with inventing this type of anthropological observation in which the social scientist becomes embedded in the culture being observed.
magic
Argonauts of the Western Pacific
participant observation
This man proposed the "bancor" currency and lead the British delegation at the Breton Woods Conference.
Name this British economist who wrote The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
Keynes advocated using this type of policy to regulate fluctuations in aggregate demand. It concerns the government's use of taxation and spending to influence the economy.
The effect of fiscal policy on output can be calculated as this factor, which generally measures how much one variable changes in response to an external variable.
John Maynard Keynes
fiscal policy [do not accept or prompt on "monetary policy"]
multiplier [effect]
This social scientist wrote a 1919 essay discussing E.T.A. Hoffman called "The Uncanny."
Name this Austrian father of psychoanalysis who developed a theory of the "death drive" in his Beyond the Pleasure Principle.
Freud wrote a book about the "interpretation" of these phenomena, which he defined as a "royal road to the unconscious."
Freud's Totem and Taboo contains an essay on the "horror" of this behavior, which is the logical end of the Oedipus complex.
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud]
dreams [or trÃ¤ume; accept The Interpretation of Dreams or Traumdeutung]
incest [accept equivalents like sex with one's father/parent]
Franz Boas created the first graduate program of this social science at Columbia. 
Name this broad social scientific discipline whose early practitioners also included Bronislaw Malinowski.
This English anthropologist was inspired by Charles Lyell to write his Primitive Culture, in which he states that "the science of culture is essentially a reformer's science."
This French structural anthropologist argued that both savage and civilized minds had the same structure in The Savage Mind and Tristes Tropiques.
anthropology [accept word forms] 
 Sir Edward Burnett Tylor
Claude Levi-Strauss [prompt on partial answer]
Examples of these concepts include the mother, the trickster, and the child.
Name this psychological term of collectively inherited unconscious ideas that are universally present in individual psyches
This Swiss psychiatrist created the concept of archetypes as well as the "collective unconscious."
Jung's book Psychological Types is the inspiration for this doubly eponymous psychological test that classifies people on two axes as extrovert or introvert and judging or perceiving.
archetypes
 Carl [Gustav] Jung
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator [or MBTI]
[missing]
 Name this collection of course lectures which is credited for laying the foundations for structural linguistics.
 Course in General Linguistics is attributed to this Swiss linguist, who also predicted the existence of laryngeals in Indo-European.
 One of Saussure's greatest contributions to the field of linguistics was his concept of the sign, signifier and signified, which forms the core of this academic field, the study of signs, including semantics.
 Course in General Linguistics [or Cours de linguistique generale]
 Ferdinand de Saussure
 semiotics
[missing]
 This psychologist used devices like the "rape rack" and the "pit of despair" on monkeys in experiments showing that really, everyone just wants to be loved.
 This behaviorist showed that humans can be classically conditioned in an experiment where Little Albert was made to fear a white lab rat, as well as similar furry white objects.
 In his Robber's Cave experiments, this man pitted two groups of campers against one another; they united to drive off a common enemy, to rebel against the experimenters, or to achieve a common goal.
 Harry Harlow
 John Watson
  Muzafir Sherif
[missing]
 Name this Stanford psychologist and social learning theorist who wrote Social Foundations of Thought and Action.
 Bandura conducted this experiment which showed that children descend into aggressive behavior after observing adults exhibit aggression towards the title object after being deprived of the toys like a spinning top and a truck after 2 minutes.
 Social learning theory is an advancement over this other psychological theory, whose "radical" variety was researched by B.F. Skinner. It holds that human activity should be considered as a mechanical response to stimuli.
 Albert Bandura
 Bobo Doll experiment
 Behaviorism
[missing]
 Name this work of sociology that states how a belief in predestination led the title religious group to see economic success as a sign of future salvation.
 The Protestant Ethic was written by this German sociologist who rejected the values of the Junker class in his Freiburg Address.
 In Politics as a Vocation, Weber described the State as being the only entity holding a monopoly on the legitimate use of this activity.
 The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism
 Max Weber
 violence [accept force]
[missing]
 Chomsky believes in a "universal" form of this kind of structure that innately governs the use of words and phrases in a given language.
 Chomsky showed that a sentence can make no sense, but have correct grammar, with a sentence in which colorless green ideas sleep in this manner.
 In Syntactic Structures, Chomsky proposed a theory of this kind of grammar. In this theory, the sentences "John reads a book" and "A book is read by John" have the same "deep structure," but different "surface structures."
 grammar
 furiously [do not accept other answers]
 transformational grammar [or transformational-generative grammar; prompt on generative grammar]
[missing]
 Name this quantity from economics which is constant along indifference curves.
 Indifference curves are strictly convex, due to this property, in which the change in utility of an additional good decreases as more of that good is used.
 This production function, denoted Y equals K to the alpha times L to the beta, is used to represent the relationship of two inputs to an output.
 Utility
 Diminishing Marginal Utility [prompt on diminishing returns]
 Cobb-Douglas functions
[missing]
 First, name this effect in which the audience to a crime does not call for help because everyone assumes someone else has already done so.
 This woman's brutal murder is the most famous case of the bystander effect. Psychology textbooks claim 38 witnesses failed to call for help, though recent studies have proven that an exaggeration.
 The rape of Kitty Genovese took place in New York City, which later applied this theory of criminology. According to this theory, cleaning up graffiti and cracking down on petty crime can reduce serious crime.
 Bystander Effect [do not read alternate answer unless it is given, but also accept Genovese Syndrome]
 Kitty Genovese
 Broken Windows Theory
[missing]
 Name these monolithic figures which were first discovered by Europeans in 1722, which noted fraud Erich von Daniken claims could only be built with extraterrestrial help, due to their size and number.
 The moai giant stone heads were discovered by Europeans on this Polynesian island, the society of which caused its own destruction by destroying the once tree-rich environment, according to Jared Diamond's Collapse.
 This geographer proposed that the Moai were "walked" upright on stone sledges from a stone quarry to the outskirts of Easter Island. He's also known for sailing across the Pacific Ocean in the Kon-Tiki.
 moai [prompt on answers like "those heads on Easter Island"]
 Easter Island
 Thor Heyerdahl
[missing]
 Name this therapeutic method in which the therapist gives his patient unconditional positive regard and tries to understand issues from the patient's viewpoint to help find a solution.
 Client-centered therapy was developed by this psychologist who outlined its basic ideas in his book On Becoming a Person.
 Rogers worked with and was influenced by this other psychologist who coined the term "self-actualization" to describe the last stage of his namesake Hierarchy of Needs.
 client-centered therapy [or person-centered therapy]
 Carl Rogers
 Abraham Maslow
[missing]
 This man is best known for creating a conditioned reflex in dogs that would cause them to salivate when they heard the sound of a bell.
 This psychologist attributed things like exercise and recency to the optimality of learning. He also formulated such concepts as the Law of Effect in his overall Theory of Learning.
 This developer of cultural-historical psychology had the idea of the Zone of Proximal Development, an area bounded by what someone learning can do by himself and what he can do with the help of a teacher.
 Ivan Petrovich Pavlov
 Edward Thorndike
 Lev Semyonovich Vygotsky
[missing]
 Identify this monk, who stood up in the middle of a choir practice and shouted "I am not!"
 This thinker wrote a psychohistory of Luther in Young Man Luther, and a psychohistory of Mahatma Gandhi in Gandhi's Truth. This psychologist also developed eight stages of psychosocial development.
 Erikson coined this term to describe what happens when someone's view of themselves does not match how others perceive them. Luther's manifested in him shouting "I am not!"
 Martin Luther
 Erik Erikson
 Identity Crisis
[missing]
 This experiment, conducted at Yale University, involved the test subject being given the order to subject another human being to increasingly potent electric shocks at the instruction of an authority figure.
 In this experiment conducted by Philip Zimbardo, students were booked and strip-searched before being incarcerated and psychologically tortured by other students serving as guards. It was stopped after only six days.
 One subject in the Stanford Prison experiment was a guard who locked one of the "prisoners" in a closet and refused to let him out while emulating "Cool Hand Luke." As a result, he was given this nickname after an actor.
 Milgram experiment
 Stanford Prison experiment
 John Wayne
[missing]
 Identify this economic quantity, the ratio of the change in GDP to the change in government spending inducing it. Its existence was the operating principle behind the fiscal stimulus.
 The fiscal multiplier is an important concept in this man's economic framework. This British economist argued that fiscal policy could regulate business cycles in his General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
 This Nobel Laureate and left-wing Princeton professor advocates New Keynesian policies in his popular New York Times blog, The Conscience of a Liberal.
 fiscal multiplier [or the multiplier effect; or the spending multiplier]
 John Maynard Keynes
 Paul Krugman
[missing]
 Name this quality studied by Gordon Allport, which is also quantified in the Big Five Theory.
 Multiple personality disorder, or dissociative identity disorder, is sometimes confused with this other disease, whose name means "split mind." This mental illness results in paranoia and auditory hallucinations.
 Based on the work of Jung, this questionnaire classifies personality types using four dichotomies, including introversion vs. extraversion. It was developed by a mother-daughter team.
 personality [do not accept other answers]
 schizophrenia
 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator
This psychologist defined the anima and animus to describe the unconscious qualities associated with each sex that members of the other sex possess.
Name this student of Freud who used the term "synchronicity" for a non-causal connection between separated events and elaborated on archetypes such as the Great Mother and the Shadow. 
Jung posited a shared "collective" type of this part of the mind, and Freud argued that this part of the mind, which contains repressed thoughts and images, may surface through dreams or Freudian slips. 
This doubly eponymous psychometric personality test, based on Jung's ideas, evaluates people across four dichotomies encompassing functions, lifestyle, and attitudes, the last of which includes introversion or extroversion. 
 Carl [Gustav] Jung
unconscious mind [accept word forms] 
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator Test [or Myers-Briggs Personality Test] 
This work examines societies in the Pacific, Polynesia, and the American Northwest to argue that practices of reciprocal exchange are important for building human relationships. For 10 points each:
Name this essay by Marcel Mauss.
This German-American anthropologist, who pioneered cultural relativism and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man, was also a student of the societies of the American Northwest.
This is the method of exchange in non-monetary, non-gift societies, in which goods are traded for other goods.
The Gift [or Essai sur le don]
Franz Boas
barter [or truck]
A majority of participants in this man's study were willing to administer electric shocks.
Name the Yale psychologist for whom the "obedience to authority" experiment is named.
Milgram was partly inspired by the trial of this Nazi who exemplified the "banality of evil" in Hannah Arendt's book titled for him "in Jerusalem
This experiment performed by Milgram found that the average number of times a package had to be forwarded for it to get from someone in Omaha or Wichita to someone in Boston was around six.
Stanley Milgram
Otto] Adolf Eichmann [accept Eichmann in Jerusalem; or Eichmann trial]
small world experiment
The number of years that a person engages in this process is a commonly used proxy for human capital. For 10 points each:
Name this process, theorists of which include Paolo Freire and Maria Montessori.
This American philosopher advocated progressive education in his work Democracy and Education, in addition to penning Art as Experience and The Quest for Certainty.
Democracy and Education is partly a response to this French author who outlined his views of education in Ã‰mile.
education [accept equivalents such as pedagogy]
John Dewey
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
In the twentieth century, Talcott Parsons and Anthony Giddens practiced this discipline. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline whose early German practitioners include Georg Simmel and Ferdinand TÃ¶nnies.
This French thinker is credited as being the founder of sociology as a discipline. He postulated that societies go through three stages.
Comte was a proponent of this philosophy, which states that knowledge is gained exclusively through empirical investigation.
sociology
Auguste Comte [or Isidore Auguste Marie FranÃ§ois Xavier Comte]
positivism [accept word forms]
Except in the case of Veblen and Giffen goods, increasing price causes this quantity to decrease, according to this quantity's namesake law. For 10 points each:
Name this economic quantity that is often contrasted with supply.
For two goods with this relationship, lowering the price of either increases demand for both goods. An example is bicycles and helmets, which are often used together.
Complementary goods have a negative value for the "cross" variety of this economic concept. This concept refers to the rate at which one economic variable changes with respect to another.
demand [accept aggregate demand]
complementary goods [accept word forms]
elasticity [or cross-price elasticity of demand
In the "operant" variant of this process, positive and negative reinforcement, punishment, and extinction change the strength and occurrence of a behavior. 
Name this form of learning, which has also has a classical variant. 
John Watson performed this experiment, which demonstrated classical conditioning by showing that a baby repeatedly frightened by a loud noise while holding a rabbit will come to fear the rabbit. 
This Russian physiologist first demonstrated classical conditioning through an experiment in which dogs were conditioned to associate the sound of a bell with food, and thus salivated when they heard the bell. 
conditioning [accept word forms] 
Little Albert experiment [accept anything including Albert] 
Ivan [Petrovich] Pavlov
 This man trained Raymond Firth and Edmund Leach and served as Jomo Kenyatta's mentor. 
Name this Polish anthropologist who described the Kula Ring in The Argonauts of the Western Pacific. 
Malinowski's study of the Trobriaders documented examples of the use of this practice, such as spells cast by sorcerers to help in the growing of gardens, in a book titled for "The Coral Gardens" and this practice. 
This Scottish anthropologist posited that societies move from magical to religious to scientific thought processes in his "Study in Magic and Religion" titled The Golden Bough. 
Bronislaw [Kasper] Malinowski
magic [accept The Coral Gardens and their Magic
James Frazer [or Sir James George Frazer] 
A study of this phenomenon investigated why it happened more frequently among Protestants than among Catholics. 
Name this behavior, which the aforementioned study claimed can be egoistic, anomistic, or fatalistic. 
The study Suicide was conducted by this foundational French sociologist who authored The Elementary Forms of Religious Life and The Rules of Sociological Method. 
This type of suicide is committed for the benefit of others. Auguste Comte coined this word. 
 suicide [accept equivalents]
[David] Ã‰mile Durkheim
 altruistic [accept word forms] 
This man discusses the "nature" and "motive" of morality in his Theory of Moral Sentiments and uses the example of a pin factory to discuss the division of labor in another work. 
Name this economist who used the image of an "invisible hand" in The Wealth of Nations. 
Robert Barro's "equivalence" named for this man states that financing government with taxes or debt has the same effect; this man also proposed the comparative advantage in his Principles of Political Economy and Taxation. 
The Slutsky equation shows the relation between this man's namesake demand function and Hicksian demand. This British economist's 1890 Principles of Economics emphasized the influence of supply and demand on prices. 
Adam Smith
David Ricardo
Alfred Marshall
This school is based on the law of pragnanz, which is the tendency of humans to group things in an orderly manner
Name this German psychological school, popularized by Wolfgang Kohler and Max Wertheimer. As its name indicates, its proponents argue that you must take a holistic view and that the human eye sees objects in their entirety before perceiving individual parts.
This social psychologist and student of Wertheimer's tested conformity by asking participants to state which line was longer than the others after others gave incorrect responses.
Max Wertheimer defined this optical illusion, in which the human eye perceives constant movement after seeing a succession of images. Cinema and animation are examples of this illusion at work, which should not be confused with beta movement.
Gestalt [accept Gestaltism]
Solomon Eliot Asch
phi phenomenon
This anthropological hypothesis was largely advocated for by Kristin Hawkes, and the foundations for this theory were laid by William Hamilton and George Williams. For 10 points each:
Name this dubious hypothesis which tried to explain the existence of the title post-menopausal women by arguing that the namesake women increase their own fitness by foraging for their extended families.
A lot of anthropological research is done on these organisms of genus Pan. Jane Goodall famously studied these large apes at Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania.
For a third part about anthropology in Africa, give the nickname of the australopithecine discovered by Donald Johanson in Hadar, Ethiopia, in 1974. Its official name is AL 288-1.
grandmother hypothesis
chimpanzees [accept Pan troglodytes]
Lucy
One example of the negative type of these is pollution. For 10 points each:
Name these unintended costs or benefits that are not accounted for by the producer and are incurred by a third party.
This theorem of externalities requires that a set of conditions, including property ownership, be in place for negotiations to reach the ideal level of externalities, which is somewhere in the middle.
This economist names a type of taxes levied on producers of negative externalities and wrote The Economics of Welfare and The Theory of Unemployment.
externalities
Coase theorem
Arthur Cecil Pigou
This woman was killed while walking back to her home at 3 o'clock in the morning in Queens, New York. For 10 points each:
Identify this woman who screamed and pleaded for help as she was stabbed to death while 38 witnesses failed to intervene.
The Kitty Genovese case is an example of this effect where individuals do not offer aid to those in need when other people are present.
These two social psychologists were the first to research the Kitty Genovese murder. They also conducted an experiment that concluded that the bystander effect stems partially from social loafing, the fact that individuals exert less effort as group size grows. Name either.
Kitty Genovese [or Catherine Susan Genovese]
bystander effect
John M. Darley or Bibb LatanÃ© [accept either]
This book states, "From each according to his ability, to each according to his need." For 10 points each:
Name this work describing the execution of a socialist revolution, which is based on a letter its author wrote to the Eisenach faction.
This man wrote the Critique of the Gotha Program, but is more famous for Das Kapital as well as for a collaboration with Engels.
In Critique of the Gotha Program, Marx claimed that a classless worker's state could only be achieved through this intermediate phase. Lenin discusses this concept in his The State and Revolution, where the title group deposes the capitalist state to achieve socialism.
Critique of the Gotha Program
Karl Heinrich Marx
dictatorship of the proletariat [prompt on equivalents]
Name some psychologists with stages of development, for 10 points each.
This Swiss psychologist developed a four-stage model where children understand the idea of object permanence at the end of the sensorimotor stage.
This psychologist created six stages of moral development at three levels: pre-conventional, conventional, and post-conventional.
This psychologist's eight stages see the person confront and master new challenges and builds on the successful completion of earlier stages. This man also coined the term identity crisis.
Jean Piaget
Lawrence Kohlberg
Erik Homburger Erikson
On Dobu Island, all men can participate in this system, whereas on the Trobriand Islands, the exchange is monopolized by the chiefs. For 10 points each:
Name this system of ceremonial barter of shell-disc necklaces or soulava.
The Kula ring is described in this man's Argonauts of the Western Pacific. This Polish guy is considered the founder of ethnography.
This man drew on Malinowski's study of the kula ring to argue that giving the title object between groups builds relationships between humans in The Gift.
Kula ring
: Branislaw Malinowski
Marcel Mauss
Answer these questions about twentieth century Supreme Court cases, for 10 points each.
This Supreme Court justice, appointed by Teddy Roosevelt, delivered the unanimous majority opinion in Schenck. This justice dissented in Abrams v. United States and was known as the Great Dissenter.
Holmes dissented on this case in which a New York baker pushed for longer working hours.
This other case decided that inaccurate statements only count as libel when there is a malicious intent. It arose after the publication of the article "Heed Their Rising Voices."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.
Lochner v. New York [or New York v. Lochner]
New York Times v. Sullivan [or New York Times v. Sullivan]
Examples of this term include assault, battery, and false imprisonment. For 10 points each:
Identify this term, defined as any wrongful act that is grounds for a civil suit
Torts are examples of wrongdoings without one of these, a binding legal agreement enforceable in a court of law or arbitration.
This type of law promotes or maintains market competition by limiting contracts that would create monopolies, examples of which include the Sherman and Clayton Acts in the United States.
torts 
contracts
antitrust law 
Examples of this term include assault, battery, and false imprisonment. For 10 points each:
Identify this term, defined as any wrongful act that is grounds for a civil suit
Torts are examples of wrongdoings without one of these, a binding legal agreement enforceable in a court of law or arbitration.
This type of law promotes or maintains market competition by limiting contracts that would create monopolies, examples of which include the Sherman and Clayton Acts in the United States.
torts 
contracts
antitrust law 
One of this man's works discusses the responsibilities of intellectuals in revolutionary situations and discusses the need of "absolute violence" to purify the world. For 10 points each:
Name this cultural theorist from Martinique who wrote about the importance of the lumpenproletariat in The Wretched of the Earth.
Frantz Fanon also wrote this work in which the "epidermalization" of the subject causes an inferiority complex and claims that the subject will appropriate and imitate the dominant culture code.
Frantz Fanon critiqued this sort of imperial practice, which involves industrial countries taking political control of less developed countries and exploiting their resources.
Frantz Fanon
Black Skin, White Masks [or Peau Noir, Masques Blancs]
colonialism [accept like terms]
[missing]
The Federal Reserve is responsible for carrying out this type of policy, which involves either the purchase or sale of bonds or the lowering of the reserve requirement.
Another method of carrying out this policy by the Fed involves this, the interest rate charged for short-term loans to commercial banks, which is currently set at 0.75 percent.
This economist discusses the role of monetary policy in his book A Monetary Policy in the United States, where he argues that an excessively tight monetary policy by the Fed following the boom of the 1920s led to the Great Depression in the 1930s.
monetary policy
discount rate
[missing]
This work is credited with coining the term "conventional wisdom." For 10 points each:
Identify this 1958 work that examined how America had become wealthy in the private sector after World War II but remained poor in the public sector, and that advocated increased spending on public services like education.
The Affluent Society was written by this liberal economist who taught at Harvard and served as an economic advisor to John F. Kennedy.
Galbraith argues that very few industries in the United States fit the model of perfect competition and that large corporations dominate the title entity in this 1967 follow-up to The Affluent Society.
The Affluent Society
John Kenneth Galbraith
The New Industrial State
He discussed the role of sympathy in social relationships in his first book, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, but is more famous for his second work. For 10 points each:
Name this economist who argued the benefits of a free market and described the invisible hand in The Wealth of Nations.
Smith declared that this man, the founder of modern conservatism, was "the only man...who thinks on economic subjects exactly" as he does. He criticized the French Revolution and liberal politics, stating in Thoughts and Details on Scarcity that "to provide for us in our necessities is not in the power of Government."
The man who proposed this namesake law publicized Adam Smith's views, though he disagreed with some of them. This law was interpreted by John Maynard Keynes to mean, "Supply creates its own demand."
Adam Smith
Edmund Burke 
Say's Law 
This experiment was designed to examine prejudice towards socially undesirable groups. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment that involved distributing four groups of 100 of the title objects, addressed to medical research associates, friends of the Nazi party, friends of the Communist party, and Mr. Walter Carnap.
] This experiment by the same psychologist was designed to quantitatively determine degrees of separation in social networks. It involved 160 people in Omaha, Nebraska being instructed to send a package to a man given only his job title and other basic information
Those two experiments were performed by this psychologist, whose most famous experiment saw people administer electric shocks when ordered to by an authority figure.
lost letter experiment
small world experiment 
Stanly Milgram
This work states that the only legitimate purpose for the exercise of power over another is to prevent harm. For 10 points each:
Name this work that suggests that tyranny of the majority is a greater threat to the titular concept than tyranny of government.
This man was the author of On Liberty, as well as The Subjection of Women and Utiliarianism. 
Utilitarianism provides one response to this thought experiment originally posited by Philippa Foot, which examines whether it is right to flip a switch to cause the death of one person if it will save many from the namesake object.
On Liberty
John Stuart Mill
Trolley Problem
Cattell divided this into fluid and crystallized components. For 10 points each
Name this ability to understand, reason, and plan that is measured by tests that are known as its quotient.
This is the baseline average IQ in a standard IQ test
This the apparent increase in IQ scores between generations in some parts of the world. Its namesake argued that this effect showed that IQ tests have a weak relationship with actual intelligence.
intelligence
100
Flynn Effect
Name these economic paradoxes, for 10 points each.
This paradox states that, when a community chooses from among three or more alternatives, no voting system can provide a consistent and fair ranking of the group's preferences given individual preferences.
This paradox derives from an observation that countries with an abundance of non-renewable raw materials tend to have slower economic growth and worse development outcomes than those with fewer resources.
This paradox is founded on the observation that countries with large amounts of capital tend to import capital-intensive goods and export labor-intensive goods, in contradiction to the Hecksher-Ohlin theory.
Arrow's Impossibility Theorem [or Arrow's Paradox]
: paradox of plenty [or resource curse]
Leontief's Paradox
One extension of this concept is the NAIRU level, which accounts for a phenomenon that existed in the United States in the late 1970s. For 10 points each:
Name this economic curve first described by Irving Fisher over thirty years before its namesake, which claims that unemployment and inflation are inversely related.
This phenomenon of both high unemployment and high inflation was explained by Nitzan and Bichler as companies attempting to grow without acquiring competitors in the differential accumulation theory.
One measure of stagflation, the Misery Index, was created by this economist most famous for his law stating that the unemployment and GDP are related.
Phillips Curve
stagflation
Arthur Melvin Okun
This psychologist described his theory of reciprocal determinism in Social Foundations of Thought and Action. For 10 points each
 Identify this psychologist who conducted a landmark experiment on social learning in which children watched and imitated adults violently abusing an inflatable Bobo doll.
Bandura's research built on the work of this original developmental psychologist, a Switzerland native who divided development into sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational, and formal operational stages
 Bandura's social learning observations led him to conclude that the most reliable predictor of success was a person's development of this faculty, which denotes a belief in one's ability to succeed and is viewed distinctly from confidence.
BANDURA
PIAGET
SELF EFFICACY
This welfare economist wrote a series of essays about his home nation, The Argumentative Indian. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Collective Choice and Social Welfare.
] In one work, Sen argued that the optimality criterion named for this man contradicted Mill's notion of liberalism. That criterion states that nobody can be made better off without someone else being made worse off.
Sen also wrote about entitlements and ownership in a work titled for poverty and these events, catastrophic shortages of food.
Amartya Kumar Sen
Vilfredo Federico Damaso Pareto 
famines
Identify these psychologists who conducted famous experiments
This pioneering behaviorist conditioned a child to fear white, furry objects in his Little Albert experiment.
This psychologist conducted the small-world experiment, but is better known for an experiment in which he tested obedience by ordering his subjects to administer electric shocks to another person.
This psychologist conducted an experiment in which children who observed an adult beating an inflatable Bobo doll imitated the adult's aggressive behavior.
John Broadus Watson
Stanley Milgram
Albert Bandura
One section of it is titled "Historical Review" and describes Boulainvilliers and Gobineau, while middle sections describe the "morphological position" and "physiological and psychological functions" of races.  For 10 points each:
Name this 1911 work, a series of lectures on culture and race, which maintains that the human capacity for intelligence remains largely the same over all cultures. 
The Mind of Primitive Man was written by this American social scientist and professor at Columbia, considered the founder of American anthropology. 
 One of Boas's students was this American anthropologist, who further developed the notion of "culture area" in his Cultural and Natural Areas of Native North America and also wrote Indian Myths of South Central California. 
 The Mind of Primitive Man 
 Franz Boas 
 Alfred Kroeber 
It exists in systems where all improvements for one party would result in some corresponding worsening of conditions for another.
Name this indicator of economic optimality, named for an Italian who is also often identified as the originator of indifference curves. 
In his landmark work Collective Choice and Social Welfare, this economist showed that Pareto efficiency is mutually exclusive with the concept of personal liberty.  He is also known for Poverty and Famines. 
An extension of Pareto efficiency named for this economist and Kaldor.  He has a namesake demand function often contrasted with that of Marshall. 
Pareto efficiency [or Pareto optimality]
Amartya Sen
John Hicks
Name these psychology experiments that helped quantify evidence on previously suspected behaviors, 
Solomon Asch showed that people were likely to change their opinions when they were opposed in an experiment that showed this type of influence of groups.
This also 1963 Albert Bandura experiment showed that children would copy adult aggressive behavior, especially by adults of the same sex.
The 1972 Rosenhan experiment showed that professionals could neither identify fakers of this behavior, nor correctly affirm true sufferers.
conformity [accept word forms]
the Bandura Bobo Doll experiment
insanity [accept any reasonably equivalents implying generally impaired mental health, but NOT specific examples like "schizophrenia"]
This man established the International Centre of Genetic Epistemology in Geneva for collaborative studies between psychologists and scientists into the cognitive development of children.  
Name this Swiss psychologist most famous for developing the four stage model of cognitive development.
In this first stage of Piaget's model, lasting between a child's birth and 2 years of age, the child begins to differentiate itself from objects and also achieves object permanence
In this stage, the child achieves conservation of number, mass, and weight. The child is also able to classify and order objects in a series according to a single dimension, but is still unable to think abstractly.
Jean Piaget
Sensorimotor stage
Concrete Operational stage
Some of her lesser known works include And Keep Your Powder Dry.  
Identify this anthropologist who studied about 600 individuals on the island of Ta'u, and also wrote a work called Growing up in New Guinea and Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies.
This work, perhaps Mead's best-known, deals with adolescents in the namesake culture, and tells of how they get around the pesky taupau system of testing virginity by using chicken blood.
This anthropologist from New Zealand himself spent time on Samoa, and later declared that Mead had been extremely misled. He went on to criticize Mead in his books like The Fateful Hoaxing of Margaret Mead.
Margaret Mead
Coming of Age in Samoa
Derek Freeman
At the base of the pyramid are physiological requirements, like food, water, and air. 
Name this theory that posits successive levels of human necessities, developed by Abraham Maslow.
At the top of Maslow's Hierarchy is this final level, in which a person has reached his or her full potential.  Maslow identified a number of historical figures who reached this level, including Thomas Jefferson, Albert Einstein, and Eleanor Roosevelt.
Maslow's humanistic approach had a great influence on this psychologist, who wrote A Way of Being and On Becoming a Person and developed client-centered therapy. 
Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs [accept equivalent as long as the words "hierarchy" and "needs" are mentioned]
Self-actualization
Carl Ransom Rogers
This man wrote about followers of Muhammad in Islam Observed. 
Name this anthropologist who pioneered "thick description" in his Interpretation of Cultures.
Perhaps the best-known essay in Geertz's Interpretation of Cultures is called "Deep Play," and discusses this Balinese practice, which involves some animals that duke it out.
Geertz wrote an article about how he was "anti-anti-" this "ism," which claims that there is no absolute definition of "culture," and thus that culture should be viewed in its own terms.
Clifford James Geertz
the Balinese cockfight [accept obvious equivalents]
cultural relativism [accept "Anti-Anti-Relativism; do not accept "moral relativism" or any other kind of relativism]
Some of these entities worshiped American servicemen like John Frum. 
Name these groups dedicated to worshiping people who bring them technologically advanced goods, often found when societies on isolated islands like Vanuatu first interact with other cultures.
Some cargo cults create imitations of airplanes or ships, known as the sympathetic form of this phenomenon, which is the subject of The Golden Bough.
Wikipedia notes that cargo cults are similar to UFO cults, such as this one led by Marshall Applewhite. Their 38 members committed suicide, supposedly to board the spaceship responsible for the 1997 appearance of the Hale-Bopp comet.
cargo cults
magic
Heaven's Gate
