This psychoanalyst’s contrast between ‘depressive’ and ‘paranoid/schizoid’ positions was influentially taken up by Eve Sedgwick to call for ‘reparative’ as well as ‘paranoid’ readings of literary texts. For 10 points each:
Name this psychoanalyst, who contrasted between ‘part’ and ‘whole’ objects and the notion of the ‘bad breast’. This thinker engaged in the so-called ‘Controversial Discussions’ with Anna Freud in the early 1940s.
Together with Anna Freud, Klein was among the first to carry out psychoanalysis on these people. Donald Winnicott would later argue that these people required ‘good-enough mothering’ in order to develop.
According to Winnicott, these objects help the child to separate the ‘me’ from the ‘not-me’ while maintaining a fantasized bond with the mother. Common examples include dolls, teddy bears, and blankets.
Melanie Klein
children [or infants]
transitional objects &lt;NC&gt;
In North American and Australian English, alveolar stops in this environment are subject to flapping, which changes their pronunciation. For 10 points each:
Name or describe this environment. The ‘s’ consonant in Old Latin uniformly changed to ‘r’ in Classical Latin when the original ‘s’ was in this environment.
In intervocalic position, the Spanish ‘d’ consonant is weakened to become a consonant of this type. Grimm’s Law means that voiceless stops in Germanic languages became voiceless versions of these consonants, which include ‘s’.
Though a large number of regular Indo-European sound changes affect consonants, ablaut affects this other category of phonemes, contrasted with consonants.
intervocalic [or being between vowels; do not accept or prompt on ‘after a vowel’ or ‘before a vowel’]
fricatives [accept spirants]
vowels &lt;AH/ELM&gt;
The ‘third wave’ of this form of therapy describes a process by which other, similar forms of therapy are incorporated within it. For 10 points each:
Name this form of therapy, often used to treat anxiety, which involves modifying dysfunctional thinking by talking about problems the patient currently faces.
CBT is now sometimes used to treat this disorder, characterised by persistent low mood and loss of interest in activities.
Another treatment for depression is this structured therapy method, which centres on the notion that when a person is able to interact more effectively with others, their psychological symptoms often improve.
cognitive behavioural therapy [or CBT]
depression [or MDD]
interpersonal psychotherapy [or IPT] &lt;GDC&gt;
According to Haugen’s model, the standardisation of languages involves a stage of codification that can involve the compiling of rules about this area of language. For 10 points each:
Name this aspect of language, generally understood to encompass morphology and syntax. Noam Chomsky proposed a theory of a universal form of this thing to explain language acquisition.
This pair of linguists added an explicit stage of ‘prescription’ alongside Haugen’s codification and also emphasised that a fully standardised language is not possible. In Belfast, they investigated the effect of the networks of connections between members of speech communities on speakers’ linguistic behaviour.
This language has two written standard varieties. The name of one of the forms means ‘book tongue’ and is based on the written variety of a neighbouring country, while the name of the other – significantly less widely used – written standard means ‘new [this language]’.
grammar
James Milroy and Lesley Milroy [accept anything indicating multiple Milroys]
Norwegian &lt;ELM&gt;
This thinker likened economists to plumbers in an article arguing that economists need to pay attention to the details of policy making. For 10 points each:
Name this economist who, with Rohini Pande, wrote a paper simply entitled ‘Dam’ that examines the distributional effects of large dams in India.
Duflo, along with Abhijit Banerjee and Michael Kremer, won the Nobel Prize in Economics for advances in this general field of economics.
Development economists often study the ‘global’ form of this phenomenon. This phenomenon has both ‘absolute’ and ‘relative’ forms, with the former concept’s ‘line’ set at $1.90 a day by the World Bank.
Ester Duflo
development economics
poverty &lt;GDC&gt;
In <em>Civilisation Matérielle, Économie et Capitalisme</em>, this thinker argued that the function of the state has tended to be to reinforce monopolists. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker, most famous for their analysis of the Mediterranean in the time of Phillip II. An example of this thinker’s use of their best-known technique is their analysis of tensions between mountain- and plain-dwellers.
Fernand Braudel was part of this 20th-century school of history, adherents of which often employed longue durée analysis.
The longue durée is sometimes used to analyse the ‘settler’ form of this concept. This concept is more broadly the process by which less developed countries or regions are controlled as outposts of another polity.
Fernand Braudel
Annales school
colonialism &lt;GDC&gt;
Emily Martin wrote a paper that examines the anthropology and cultural study of this field. For 10 points each:
Name this field, which Sharon Traweck claims involves subfields with ‘cultures of no culture’. The Edinburgh school is associated with the ‘strong program’ of the sociology of this field, which emphasises the importance of understanding its successes as well as its failures.
According to David Bloor, the first tenet of the ‘strong’ program of the sociology of science is this concept. Bloor examines the Humean notion of this concept, which Hume claims occurs when the impression of ‘one object forms a more lively idea of the other’.
In Beamtimes and Lifetimes, Sharon Traweck examined ‘myth making’ in this major field of the sciences. Traweck noted that scientists of this discipline are generally ‘stoic’ by analysing the behaviour of those working at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center.
science
causation [or causality]
particle physics &lt;GDC&gt;
This thinker wrote a recent critique of economics that involves the claim that banks are ‘magic money trees’ and cited Skidelsky’s claim that ‘lunatic premises lead to mad conclusions’. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist, whose work The Utopia of Rules analyses how people relate to and are influenced by bureaucracies.
David Graeber wrote a work that examined ‘5000 years’ of this concept with respect to social institutions like barter and marriage. A contract involving this concept often specifies that one party pays the other ‘interest’.
David Graeber examined the ‘bullshit’ form of these things in another book, in which he describes how ‘flunkies’ and ‘goons’ fill examples of them.
David Graeber
debt
jobs &lt;GDC&gt;
The name for this approach to post-Fordist analysis in sociology was coined by Destanne de Bernis in the early 1970s. For 10 points each:
Name this French school of thought. Robert Boyer wrote an influential book on this school, which examines the ‘competition’ and ‘monopolistic’ modes of the concept for which this school is named.
Another school of post-Fordism is the ‘neo’ form of the thinking of this economist, whose view of business cycles incorporates Kondratiev waves and is outlined in their work Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy.
Post-Fordism is popular with intellectuals in this country, an example being Antonio Negri. An earlier thinker from here, Antonio Gramsci, coined the term ‘cultural hegemony’ while in prison.
regulation school.
Joseph Schumpeter
Italy &lt;GDC&gt;
Michael Storms suggested adapting this scale to three dimensions, while Fritz Klein introduced a grid-like approach to the variable it measures to take into account changes over time. For 10 points each:
Name this scale, which its creator defended by arguing that the world is ‘not divided into sheep and goats’. The research that led to the development of this scale is sometimes criticised for lacking rigour, because, for example, it took into account lewd bathroom graffiti.
A 6 on the Kinsey scale describes people who solely had desires of this type, the sexual attraction of people to the same gender as themselves.
Description acceptable. Kinsey’s work provided evidence that being gay was more common than thought, which was influential in the decision to perform this action in 1973, which helped destigimitise non-heteorosexual people in the eyes of the psychological profession.
Kinsey scale
homosexuality [accept being gay]
removing homosexuality from the DSM [accept any answer mentioning Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or DSM or DSM-II and the idea of making it so that being gay or homosexual was removed or no longer listed as a disorder] &lt;GDC&gt;
This concept’s theorizer presented eight successful examples of its execution in her book <em>The Dreamkeepers</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this three-word concept developed by Gloria Ladson-Billings to describe pedagogical practices that enable students to relate academic material to their personal backgrounds.
Ladson-Billings’s culturally relevant teaching draws on this thinker’s notion of “teaching as mining,” which he advocated as a replacement for what he termed the “banking model” of education in his Pedagogy of the Oppressed.
Culturally relevant teaching is informed by the constructivist theories of knowledge proposed by this Swiss developmental psychologist, who argued that children use “assimilation” and “accommodation” to develop interpretive “schemas.”
culturally relevant teaching [accept culturally relevant pedagogy; do not accept “critical pedagogy”]
Paulo Freire (“FRAY-reh”)
Jean Piaget &lt;Social Science&gt;
Alexander Bickel described this practice as a “deviant institution in the American democracy” in a book about the problem of the “counter-majoritarian difficulty.” For 10 points each:
Name this two-word practice. Jeremy Waldron, a prominent critic of it, argued that the “core of the case against” it is that it disenfranchises citizens and distracts them through “side-issues about precedent, texts, and interpretation.”
Waldron argues that judicial review is unable to settle disagreements about these things. In a book titled for “taking [these things] seriously,” Ronald Dworkin argued that “individual” examples of them serve as “trumps.”
Waldron notes that judicial review’s failure to establish decision procedures that “settle, not reignite” the controversies that made them necessary echoes a problem described in this English thinker’s treatise Leviathan.
judicial review [accept “The Core of the Case Against Judicial Review”]
rights [accept Taking Rights Seriously and a right to/of equal concern and respect]
Thomas Hobbes &lt;Philosophy&gt;
A series of papers by Roger Myerson formulated this principle for Bayesian games, assuming the presence of a free and trustworthy mediator. For 10 points each:
Name this principle in mechanism design theory which states that any mechanism can be transformed into an equivalent incentive-compatible mechanism in which agents make direct claims about their preferences.
William Vickrey’s design for one of these types of processes, in which the highest bidder wins but pays the price of the second-highest bid, is an example of an incentive-compatible direct-revelation mechanism.
The revelation principle allows one to assume that players are truthful when calculating the Bayesian form of these solutions to non-cooperative games.
revelation principle
auctions [accept Vickrey auction]
Bayesian Nash equilibrium [or Nash equilibria; prompt on equilibrium or equilibria] &lt;Social Science&gt;
A 1999 book by Arend Lijphart (“AH-runt LYPE-hart”) argues that “consensus” types of these systems outperform “majoritarian” varieties. For 10 points each:
Name these systems. Initiatives and referenda are often used in these systems’ “direct” form.
In his book Patterns of Democracy, Lijphart argues that this country represented the paradigmatic majoritarian democracy until it voted in 1993 to adopt a mixed-member proportional system after a successful campaign by the Electoral Reform Coalition.
Lijphart also distinguishes between “congruent” and “incongruent” forms of this two-tiered system of governance, the latter of which involves homogenous states organized under a central government, such as in India.
democracies [or democracy; accept consensus democracy, majoritarian democracy, or direct democracy; prompt on republics or parliamentary systems]
New Zealand [or Aotearoa]
federalism [or federalist; prompt on mixed or compound government; do not accept “confederalist”] &lt;Social Science&gt;
In this sociologist’s best-known study, black applicants with no criminal record were shown to be around as likely to get job offers as white applicants with a felony conviction. For 10 points each:
Name this recently deceased sociologist who included the results of that study in her article “The Mark of a Criminal Record.”
Pager based her study on an experiment by Schwartz and Skolnick that measured criminal records as a “legal” form of this sociological concept. A book by Erving Goffman titled for this concept divides it into categories such as “tribal” and “blemishes of individual character.”
Pager’s work also notes that limited employment opportunities are a key predictor for this phenomenon of convicted criminals committing additional crimes once they’ve been released from prison.
Devah Pager [or Devah Iwalani Pager]
stigma [accept legal stigma or social stigma; do not accept any other terms]
recidivism [accept word forms, such as recidivate or recidivating; accept the revolving door] &lt;Social Science&gt;
This quantity is frequently used by investors to evaluate the profitability of corporate investments. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is generally calculated using the weighted average of the rates that a company expects to pay in order to finance its stock and long-term debt.
A theorem developed by Merton Miller and this economist suggests that in the absence of taxes and bankruptcy costs, the weighted average cost of capital is unaffected by a company’s sources of borrowing. This economist posited that people stabilize their consumption over time in his “life-cycle hypothesis.”
Modigliani introduced the concept of a “non-inflationary rate” of this phenomenon, below which inflation accelerates. This phenomenon’s “rate” is calculated by dividing the number of people without a job by the size of the labor force.
weighted average cost of capital [or WACC]
Franco Modigliani (“mo-deel-YAH-nee”) [or the Modigliani–Miller theorem]
unemployment [or Non-Inflationary Rate of Unemployment; or unemployment rate] &lt;Social Science&gt;
In the early 1990s, a team of researchers at the University of Pennsylvania used the Brown Corpus to construct one of these entities for American English. For 10 points each:
Name these parsed corpora in linguistics that are created by annotating either phrase structures or dependency structures in a body of texts.
The Penn Treebank project created the most popular of the namesake “sets” for tagging these linguistic categories, which include nouns, verbs, and adjectives.
Corpus linguists often analyze the occurrence of these sets of co-occurring words within a given window of text. Jon Orwant and Will Brockman used the Google Books corpus to develop a program that displays the frequencies of these things over time.
treebanks [prompt on corpora or corpus]
parts of speech [or POS; accept part of speech tagging or POST; prompt on lexical categories]
n-grams [accept the Google Books Ngram Viewer; anti-prompt on bigrams, trigrams, etc. by asking “can you be less specific?”] &lt;Social Science&gt;
Stevan Hobfoll defined this phenomenon as a reaction to either a potential loss of resources or lack of gain of resources following investment. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon described by Hans Selye’s “general adaptation syndrome.” A scale developed by Thomas Holmes and Richard Rahe (“RAY-hee”) uses “life change units” to estimate the health effects of it.
This Harvard psychologist conducted an infamous series of experiments on the effects of stress, in which undergraduates, including Ted Kaczynski, were verbally abused. Earlier and somewhat more ethically, he worked with Christiana Morgan to develop the Thematic Apperception Test.
Research indicates that this seahorse-shaped region of the brain responsible for consolidating memories is suppressed during periods of high stress, which may be a cause of the flashbacks experienced by those with PTSD.
psychological stress
Henry Murray [or Henry Alexander Murray]
hippocampus &lt;Social Science&gt;
Malcolm Hailey directed a decade-long research survey on the “extent to which modern knowledge” was being applied to this region. For 10 points each:
Name this region described as a potential source of “results of striking practical importance” in a “view” of it written by Julian Huxley. The idea of this region as a “living laboratory” is explored in a book by Helen Tilley.
Tilley describes how these things were introduced to Kenya by Richard Oliver. Oliver was a student of Lewis Terman, who developed the “Stanford–Binet (“bin-AY”)” one of these things that produced a namesake “quotient.”
Tilley coined the phrase “thinking like an empire” to refer to Britain’s colonial use of scientific ideas, a reference to James Scott’s work on “seeing like” one of these entities. Max Weber (“VAY-bur”) argued that a monopoly on the legitimate use of force defines these entities.
Africa [accept An African Survey, Africa View, or Africa as a Living Laboratory; accept Sub-Saharan Africa]
intelligence tests [accept word forms; or IQ tests]
states [accept Seeing Like a State] &lt;Social Science&gt;
Rule 704b of the Federal Rules of Evidence places limitations on the ability of people in this role to offer conclusions on the so-called “ultimate issue.” 10 points each:
Name this role in common law justice systems frequently filled by forensic scientists and forensic psychologists who deliver a namesake “opinion” about a case’s evidence.
This standard, which replaced the Frye “general acceptance” test in federal law following a 1993 Supreme Court case involving Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, instructs judges to assess the relevance and reliability of expert witness testimony.
In defining the distinction between science and pseudoscience in his majority opinion in Daubert, Harry Blackmun quoted the claim that science should be defined by falsifiability put forth by this author of The Logic of Scientific Discovery.
expert witnesses [accept expert opinion; prompt on witness]
the Daubert (“DOW-bert”) standard [accept the Daubert Test]
Karl Popper [or Karl Raimund Popper] &lt;Social Science&gt;
This classification was inspired by Joe Henrich’s work with the ultimatum game among various non-Western cultures. For 10 points each:
Give this acronym for a set of five traits that titles a paper by Henrich et al. which claims that high usage of participants described by this word skewed experimental outcomes.
Despite the Many Labs 2 project’s usage of non-WEIRD participants while performing this task of re-confirming results of prior psychological experiments, they have had low rates of success.
Tyler Watts led a 2018 replication study that found much weaker correlations between delay times and future achievement than an original experiment by Walter Mischel, in which kids could be patient and receive two of these items rather than just one.
WEIRD people [or Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic people; accept “The weirdest people in the world?”]
replication [accept word forms; or reproduction; accept replication crisis or reproducibility crisis]
marshmallows &lt;Social Science&gt;
The chief formulator of this paradigm believes that it should be refined by adding a Liberty/Oppression axis. For 10 points each:
Identify this theory from social psychology, co-developed by Jesse Graham and Craig Joseph, which relies on axes like Care/Harm, Loyalty/Betrayal, and Purity/Degradation to explain outcomes such as political ideology.
MFT was popularized by this NYU psychologist whose recent activities include criticizing “safe spaces” on college campuses along with his co-author Greg Lukianoff in their 2018 book The Coddling of the American Mind.
Haidt claims that adherents of this political ideology are sensitive to all five moral foundations, while their counterparts are focused only on Care/Harm and Fairness/Cheating. Edmund Burke is considered a founder of the modern form of this ideology.
moral foundations theory [or MFT]
Jonathan Haidt (“height”) [or Jonathan David Haidt]
conservatism [accept word forms, such as conservative] &lt;Social Science&gt;
A book by this thinker argues that the “symbiotic milieu” caused by the title <em>Retreat of the State</em> has made it difficult to redress the “collective colonialism” administered by international organizations. For 10 points each:
Name this British thinker who highlighted the political impact of global finance in works such as States and Markets, a key influence on the field of international political economy.
In an essay titled for a portmanteau of this international system with the word “failure,” Strange argued that it makes socioeconomic polarization impossible to address. This system, in which nation-states have full sovereignty over their territory, is named after a 1648 treaty.
Strange’s essay notes that global capital’s use of “havens” such as the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg to avoid paying these things makes financial regulation under the Westphalian system extremely difficult.
Susan Strange
Westphalian system [or Westphalia system; accept Westphalian sovereignty]
taxes [accept more specific forms of taxation] &lt;Social Science&gt;
According to this thinker, transcendence is achieved through awareness of that which is “intrinsic, the most essential” but “never expressed,” or what he termed “the ineffable.” For 10 points each:
Name this theologian and philosopher who examined Jewish ideas about the relationship between God and people in works such as Man Is Not Alone and God In Search of Man.
Heschel frequently criticized the following of mitzvot (“meets-VOTE”) without any rationale, calling it a “religious” form of this intellectual approach, whose pioneers such as B. F. Skinner emphasized the role of operant conditioning in how people act.
Heschel also often criticized this other Jewish philosopher’s views on prophetic revelation, writing at one point that “a lot has happened between the Bible and Hasidism that” this author of I and Thou “did not pay attention to.”
Abraham Joshua Heschel
behaviorism [or behaviorist; accept religious behaviorism or radical behaviorism]
Martin Buber &lt;Philosophy&gt;
This psychologist co-names with “Nebraska” a battery of tests used to determine neuropsychological deficiencies on fourteen scales. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet neuropsychologist who published a case study about the incredible memory abilities of journalist Solomon Shereshevsky in his The Mind of a Mnemonist.
Luria noted that when Shereshevsky heard a musical tone, he would see a color, suggesting that he had this disorder in which the stimulation of one sense leads to automatic experiences in other senses.
Luria’s postwar work included research into the regulative function of this ability as a source of voluntary behavior. Individuals with Broca’s aphasia often suffer from “automatism” associated with this ability.
Alexander Luria
synesthesia [or word forms, such as synesthetic]
speech [or speaking or talking or equivalents; prompt on language] &lt;Social Science&gt;
One sociologist described how one of these businesses would serve differing grades of alcohol to passers-by depending on what image its proprietors wanted to present. For 10 points each:
The behavior of workers at one of which businesses in the Hebrides inspired that sociologist to develop the dramaturgical model of social interaction?
This sociologist developed his dramaturgical model based on his fieldwork in the Hebrides and his study of professions like medicine. This sociologist laid out that theory in his groundbreaking text The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life.
In one chapter of The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life, Goffman interprets these events as performative. Exploitative practices surrounding the planning of these ceremonies were exposed by Jessica Mitford in The American Way of Death.
tourist hotels
Erving Goffman
funerals [accept synomyms like burials or wakes]  &lt;Social Science Sociology - Myers&gt;
Answer the following about some critical analyses of sexism. For 10 points each:
In her book Feminist Frontiers, Marilyn Frye argued women are subjected to this situation, in which very few options exist, and all of them “expose one to penalty, censure or deprivation.” Gregory Bateson used this term to refer to situations where someone receives two contrasting messages.
This term, coined by Kimberle Crenshaw, describes the overlap of identities that combine to produce additional privileges or disadvantages, such as the overlapping racism and sexism faced by black women.
This author of Feminism is for Everyone analyzed the intersectional effects of sexism and racism on black women. This thinker also wrote Teaching to Transgress where she discussed the “transgressive” nature of education that allows for crossing class and social lines to give the “gift of freedom.”
double bind
intersectionality [accept word forms]
bell hooks [or Gloria Jean Watkins]  &lt;Social Science Misc - McLain&gt;
Graham Spanier developed a Dyadic Adjustment Scale to assess the quality of this kind of social relation. For 10 points each:
Name this institution, which Jessie Bernard claimed benefits men more than women in a book about its future. In many cultures, paying a dowry is required to establish this kind of relation.
This anthropologist explained norms promoting exogamy, or marriage outside one's social group, as part of the alliance theory that he described in his book The Elementary Structures of Kinship.
In kinship terminology from anthropology, familial relationships established through marriage are often described using this term, which is contrasted with “consanguineal.”
marriage
Claude Lévi-Strauss
affinal [or affine]  &lt;Social Science Anthropology - Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about the work of Lewis Binford. For 10 points each:
Binford helped develop the processual form of this field, which he argued was a type of anthropology. This field's practitioners study material remains and artifacts to make inferences about human society.
Binford developed type of theory's application to archaeology while studying the Nunamiut or Alaska. This type of theory attempts to integrate empirical evidence into theory building by observing patterns of waste production by modern people, which is extended to past groups.
Binford borrowed the term middle-range theory from this sociologist, who is perhaps more famous for coining such terms as “role-model” and “self-fulfilling prophecy” in books like Social Theory and Social Structure.
archaeology [accept new archaeology]
middle-range theory [accept middle-level theory, answers in which mid is given rather than middle]
Robert King Merton [accept Meyer Robert Schkolnick]  &lt;Social Science Misc - McLain&gt;
Andrew Lo's “adaptive” hypothesis attempts to combine theories based on this hypothesis with behavioral economics. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis, developed by Eugene Fama. It argues that the market cannot be beat in the long run, because the current price of a stock already reflects all available information.
Those in favor of the efficient-market hypothesis typically also support the hypothesis that states that share prices behave like one of these processes. That hypothesis was popularized by Burton Malkiel's 1973 book titled for one of these processes “down Wall Street.”
If you believe either the efficient-market hypothesis or the random walk hypothesis, then you should invest in an index fund, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average or this index of 500 large companies.
efficient-market hypothesis [or EMH]
random walk
S&amp;P 500 [or Standard &amp; Poor's]  &lt;Social Science Economics - French&gt;
In a book about this form of ethics, Nel Noddings claimed that its central action is an “engrossment” and that in performing it certain people “enter the practical domain of moral action…through a different door.” For 10 points each:
Name this form of ethics also advocated for by the author of In a Different Voice, Carol Gilligan, which focuses on the moral duty to motivate and meet the needs of others.
In In a Different Voice, Gilligan notes that these people were more likely to emphasize care while their counterparts would emphasize justice. Simone De Beauvoir's work The Second Sex notes how these people have come to be defined as the “Other.”
In a Different Voice posits that the answers of two children named Jake and Amy would be different when asked about the Heinz Dilemma in a study run by this psychologist, who was Gilligan's mentor.
the ethics of care [or care ethics]
women [accept equivalents]
Lawrence Kohlberg &lt;Social Science Psychology - Shanmugam&gt;
Answer the following about Danish contributions to the field of phonology. For 10 points each:
The Danish linguist Otto Jespersen discovered this phenomenon, which is one of the reasons why Chaucer and Shakespeare employ different rhyming patterns. This phenomenon resulted in a chain raising of front and back varieties of its namesake sounds.
The Danish linguist Rasmus Rask discovered this phonological law before its German namesake. This law governs consonantal changes between proto-Indo-European and proto-Germanic, thus explaining the change of the Latin “pater” to the English “father”
Another Danish linguist inspired by Rask derived this phonological law, which stipulates stress circumstances in which Grimm's law ran in reverse.
Great Vowel Shift [accept GVS; prompt on vowel shift or chain shift]
Grimm's Law
Verner's Law  &lt;Social Science Linguistics/Languages - Myers&gt;
If the marginal private cost is shifted upwards by this quantity, then it and the marginal social cost will intersect marginal revenue at the same point. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. It is the price at which the marginal social cost intersects the marginal social benefit.
Taxing at the optimal Pigouvian tax is one way to address these market inefficiencies. Pollution is the prototypical example of the “negative” variety of these inefficiencies.
Another way to address externalities is by this system, in which the government assigns permits that firms may exchange amongst themselves. The US government uses this system to regulate emissions that lead to acid rain.
optimal Pigouvian tax [accept descriptions that mention Pigouvian taxes and make clear that it's the best level; prompt on Pigouvian tax, optimal tax, and synonyms]
externalities
cap and trade &lt;Social Science Economics - French&gt;
Graham Spanier developed a Dyadic Adjustment Scale to assess the quality of this kind of social relation. For 10 points each:
Name this institution, which Jessie Bernard claimed benefits men more than women in a book about its future. In many cultures, paying a dowry is required to establish this kind of relation.
This anthropologist explained norms promoting exogamy, or marriage outside one's social group, as part of the alliance theory that he described in his book The Elementary Structures of Kinship.
In kinship terminology from anthropology, familial relationships established through marriage are often described using this term, which is contrasted with “consanguineal.”
marriage
Claude Lévi-Strauss
affinal [or affine]  &lt;Social Science Anthropology - Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about the work of Lewis Binford. For 10 points each:
Binford helped develop the processual form of this field, which he argued was a type of anthropology. This field's practitioners study material remains and artifacts to make inferences about human society.
Binford developed type of theory's application to archaeology while studying the Nunamiut or Alaska. This type of theory attempts to integrate empirical evidence into theory building by observing patterns of waste production by modern people, which is extended to past groups.
Binford borrowed the term middle-range theory from this sociologist, who is perhaps more famous for coining such terms as “role-model” and “self-fulfilling prophecy” in books like Social Theory and Social Structure.
archaeology [accept new archaeology]
middle-range theory [accept middle-level theory, answers in which mid is given rather than middle]
Robert King Merton [accept Meyer Robert Schkolnick]  &lt;Social Science Misc - McLain&gt;
Andrew Lo's “adaptive” hypothesis attempts to combine theories based on this hypothesis with behavioral economics. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis, developed by Eugene Fama. It argues that the market cannot be beat in the long run, because the current price of a stock already reflects all available information.
Those in favor of the efficient-market hypothesis typically also support the hypothesis that states that share prices behave like one of these processes. That hypothesis was popularized by Burton Malkiel's 1973 book titled for one of these processes “down Wall Street.”
If you believe either the efficient-market hypothesis or the random walk hypothesis, then you should invest in an index fund, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average or this index of 500 large companies.
efficient-market hypothesis [or EMH]
random walk
S&amp;P 500 [or Standard &amp; Poor's]  &lt;Social Science Economics - French&gt;
In a book about this form of ethics, Nel Noddings claimed that its central action is an “engrossment” and that in performing it certain people “enter the practical domain of moral action…through a different door.” For 10 points each:
Name this form of ethics also advocated for by the author of In a Different Voice, Carol Gilligan, which focuses on the moral duty to motivate and meet the needs of others.
In In a Different Voice, Gilligan notes that these people were more likely to emphasize care while their counterparts would emphasize justice. Simone De Beauvoir's work The Second Sex notes how these people have come to be defined as the “Other.”
In a Different Voice posits that the answers of two children named Jake and Amy would be different when asked about the Heinz Dilemma in a study run by this psychologist, who was Gilligan's mentor.
the ethics of care [or care ethics]
women [accept equivalents]
Lawrence Kohlberg &lt;Social Science Psychology - Shanmugam&gt;
Answer the following about Danish contributions to the field of phonology. For 10 points each:
The Danish linguist Otto Jespersen discovered this phenomenon, which is one of the reasons why Chaucer and Shakespeare employ different rhyming patterns. This phenomenon resulted in a chain raising of front and back varieties of its namesake sounds.
The Danish linguist Rasmus Rask discovered this phonological law before its German namesake. This law governs consonantal changes between proto-Indo-European and proto-Germanic, thus explaining the change of the Latin “pater” to the English “father”
Another Danish linguist inspired by Rask derived this phonological law, which stipulates stress circumstances in which Grimm's law ran in reverse.
Great Vowel Shift [accept GVS; prompt on vowel shift or chain shift]
Grimm's Law
Verner's Law  &lt;Social Science Linguistics/Languages - Myers&gt;
If the marginal private cost is shifted upwards by this quantity, then it and the marginal social cost will intersect marginal revenue at the same point. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity. It is the price at which the marginal social cost intersects the marginal social benefit.
Taxing at the optimal Pigouvian tax is one way to address these market inefficiencies. Pollution is the prototypical example of the “negative” variety of these inefficiencies.
Another way to address externalities is by this system, in which the government assigns permits that firms may exchange amongst themselves. The US government uses this system to regulate emissions that lead to acid rain.
optimal Pigouvian tax [accept descriptions that mention Pigouvian taxes and make clear that it's the best level; prompt on Pigouvian tax, optimal tax, and synonyms]
externalities
cap and trade &lt;Social Science Economics - French&gt;
Charles Tilly and Harrison White led the “Harvard Revolution” in the study of these structures. For 10 points each:
Name these systems with an average path length of five and a half. These systems of interpersonal connections name a class of online services such as Facebook.
After studying job hunting, Mark Granovetter wrote a paper titled for “The Strength of” these things that has been cited over 50,000 times. Granovetter analogized people who share this type of interpersonal relationship to “acquaintances” rather than “friends,” and has argued that they create most of a social network's “embeddedness.”
One would share an “absent tie” with this type of figure, but would share a weak tie with this type of figures “consequential” counterpart.” Stanley Milgram identified this figure as a person one could recognize but does not interact with.
social networks
weak ties [or peripheral relationships; accept “The Strength of Weak Ties”]
familiar stranger [prompt on stranger]  &lt;Social Science Sociology - Smith&gt;
In <em>The Closing of the American Mind</em>, Allan Bloom criticized the relativism of these institutions. For 10 points each:
Name these institutions, whose use of “safe spaces” and “speech codes” was questioned in a 2018 book. These institutions' ranking by the US News &amp; World Report has been criticized for overemphasizing research expenditures.
That 2018 book by Greg Lukianoff and Jonathan Haidt argues that changes in parenting styles and the explosion of social media usage have lead to a culture of “safetyism” on college campuses. This book advocates for the use of CBT techniques to combat cognitive distortions such as the myth of fragility and emotional reasoning.
The Coddling of the American Mind argues that the social form of this concept will only be achievable if it is framed in ways that appeal to the intuitive form. In an essay titled “this concept as Fairness,” another thinker divided this concept into the principles of liberty and equality.
universities [or colleges; prompt on schools]
The Coddling of the American Mind: How Good Intentions and Bad Ideas Are Setting Up a Generation for Failure
justice &lt;RMP Philosophy/Thought - McLain&gt;
This statistician invented correction for attenuation to mitigate the effects of measurement error on correlation coefficients. For 10 points each:
Name this psychometrician who coined “factor analysis.” Arthur Jensen formalized this scientist's hypothesis that racial differences in cognitive ability testing are mainly correlated to how well the exams “load” or test for his concept of general intelligence.
This contemporary of Spearman opposed his two-factor theory of intelligence, instead dividing intelligence into abstract, mechanical, and social aspects. R.J. Herrnstein quantified this psychologist's namesake law of effect.
Sometime after experiments in William James' basement, Thorndike helped this organization create a precursor to the widely studied ASVAB aptitude test. Studies on former members of this organization convinced the APA to add posttraumatic stress disorder to the DSM-3.
Charles Spearman
Edward Thorndike
United States military [or the US army or United States Armed Forces]  &lt;Social Science Psychology - Smith&gt;
In a 2017 paper, Curran and Hill implicated neoliberalism, meritocracy, and increasing parental demands in the rising prevalence of this attitude. For 10 points each:
Name this attitude which D E Hamachek divided into “normal” and “neurotic” forms in one paper. This attitude can be divided into self-oriented, other-oriented, and socially prescribed forms.
Perfectionism is often cited as a cause for these disorders, which include bulimia and anorexia.
Perfectionism has also been refered to as a risk factor for this behavior due to the tendancy of people with high levels of perfectionism to show a “perfect face” and set unreasonable goals. This behaviors “ideation” is strongly associated with borderline personality disorder.
perfectionism [accept word forms]
eating disorders
suicide [accept obvious equivalents such as killing yourself; do NOT accept or prompt on “self-harm”]  &lt;Social Science Psychology - Shanmugam&gt;
If the players do not have access to all of this resource, then a game is called “Bayesian.” For 10 points each:
Name this resource. George Akerlof's paper “The Market for Lemons” discusses the adverse selection arising from asymmetric allocation of this resource.
Crawford and Sobel pioneered the study of these games in their 1982 paper “Strategic Information Transmission.” In this type of game, players can send unverifiable, non-binding information to each other for free.
In the Bayesian form of this equilibrium, actual payoff is replaced with expected payoff. In this equilibrium, a player cannot increase their payoff by changing their strategy if their opponents' strategies all remain fixed.
information
cheap-talk games
Nash equilibrium  &lt;Social Science Economics - French&gt;
Dorothy Smith developed the “institutional” form of this practice, which focuses on the ways people interact in social institutions such as hospitals and schools. For 10 points each:
Name this practice, which Clifford Geertz argued should be done with “thick description,” which consists of describing behavior in context. The “salvage” form of this practice records the practices and beliefs of cultures at risk of extinction.
Smith attacked the current state of gender relations in a text titled for this type of world “as problematic”. Henri Lefebvre published a three-volume critique of this type of “life” that helped inspire the 1968 Parisian uprising.
Smith argued that writing in this field objectifies women and treats them as an “other” due to the male-dominated nature of its discipline. Auguste Comte and Emile Durkheim are considered the “fathers” of this field.
ethnography
everyday [accept quotidienne]
sociology &lt;Social Science Sociology - Myers&gt;
In <em>Delusions of Gender</em>, Cordelia Fine denounced this researcher's empathizing-sympathizing theory as “neurosexist.” For 10 points each:
Name this researcher, who extended his empathizing-sympathizing theory to formulate the “extreme male brain” theory of a certain mental condition.
Baron-Cohen is a researcher on this condition, one variant of which is named for the German physician Hans Asperger.
Baron-Cohen theorized that autistic people have this inability to attribute mental states to others. He contrasts this state with the “theory of mind” exhibited by neurotypicals and attributes it to a dysfunction in mirror neurons that was later proven not to exist.
Simon Baron-Cohen
autism spectrum disorder [prompt on being on the spectrum]
mind-blindness [or word forms]  &lt;Social Science Psychology - Smith&gt;
Answer the following about founding figures in linguistic subdisciplines who were active in the early 1970s and aren't Noam Chomsky. For 10 points each,
This UCLA logician provided the starting point for modern semantic theory in his paper “English as a Formal Language”, which argued for analyzing natural languages similarly to programming languages.
This “father of sociolinguistics” founded that field with a series of influential studies on dialectical variations within New York department stores and on African-American Vernacular English speakers in Harlem.
Robin Lakoff pioneered a discipline of linguistics focused on these people with a book titled Language and [these people]'s Place. She argued in that book that patriarchal power structures lead these people to employ techniques of “powerless speech”.
Richard Montague
William “Bill” Labov
women [accept Language and Woman's Place]  &lt;Social Science Linguistics/Languages - Myers&gt;
A best-selling Melody Beattie book titled for this condition <em>No More</em> popularized the work of Timmen Cermak. For 10 points each:
Name this condition. Cermak proposed diagnostic criteria for this condition that included an “assumption of responsibility for meeting others' needs” and enmeshment with other disordered individuals.
The concept of codependency can be traced back to this organization, which originated the twelve-step program for treatment of addiction and codependency.
Codependent behavior is similar to the “Moving Towards People” strategy, one of three anxiety management strategies identified by this thinker. Those strategies deal with the ten neurotic needs formulated by this psychologist, who is also credited with founding feminist psychology and coining “womb envy.”
codependency [or word forms like codependent]
Alcoholics Anonymous [or AA; do not accept Al-Anon]
Karen Horney &lt;Social Science Psychology - Smith&gt;
Answer the following about the British-Ghanaian-American philosopher, Kwame Anthony Appiah. For 10 points each:
In a work titled for the Ethics of this concept, Appiah argues that some forms of this concept demand respect and recognition at the expense of other values. In Young Man Luther, Erik Erikson defined this concept's “crisis” as the failure to achieve individuation in adolescence.
In a review of the book The Moral Landscape, Appiah claimed that this thinker was doing little more than reformulating utilitarianism in his attempts to establish a scientific morality. This “New Atheist” thinker also wrote The End of Faith.
In the Ethics of Identity and Cosmopolitanism, Appiah discussed differences between ethnic groups as well as these things, which represent the collective value and beliefs of a society. Ruth Benedict described these things as “personality writ large” in a 1934 book.
identity
Samuel Benjamin Harris or Sam Harris
culture [accept word forms]  &lt;RMP Philosophy/Thought - McLain&gt;
This book suggests mandating “RECAP regulations” to mandate explanations for complex corporate payment plans. For 10 points each:
Name this book, which suggests that states participate in libertarian paternalism to help their citizens. It describes “choice architectures,” which help planners choose responsible defaults as examples of the title phenomena.
With Cass Sunstein, this University of Chicago economist and winner of the 2017 Nobel Prize in Economics wrote Nudge.
Richard Thaler won the Nobel for his work in this field, which combines psychology and other human-based factors with economics to provide a better explanation of why actors act as they do. Much of Daniel Kahneman's work falls into this subfield of economics.
Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness
Richard Thaler
behavioral economics  &lt;Social Science Economics - Shanmugam&gt;
A 2019 <em>New York Times</em> article discussed the controversy over genetic research done by David Reich's lab on ancient skeletons found in this culture's Teouma site in Vanuatu. For 10 points each:
Name this cultural complex from the Pacific, often thought to be the ancestors of most modern Pacific islanders. It was characterized by its widespread use of dentate-stamped pottery.
Another hallmark of the Lapita culture is the widespread use of this rock to make tools. Artifacts made from this kind of dark volcanic glass can be dated using a form of hydration dating.
Experimental archaeologists often try to replicate methods used in this practice of applying lithic reduction to stones like flint or obsidian to create tools.
Lapita culture
obsidian
knapping  &lt;Social Science Anthropology - Kothari&gt;
This phenomenon typically occurs in industries that have high fixed costs. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, in which a firm can lower the per-item production cost by producing more items.
Paul Krugman applied economies of scale to explain this practice, improving upon the previous Heckscher–Ohlin model. David Ricardo explained this practice via comparative advantage.
Unlike comparative advantage, economies of scale can explain the existence of this type of trade. Grubel and Lloyd developed a namesake index to quantify this type of trade.
economies of scale
international trade
intra-industry trade [or IIT; accept any answers indicating trade within the same industry or for the same type of product]  &lt;Social Science Economics - French&gt;
Many of this island's over 800 distinct languages may be able to be grouped into a "Trans-[this island]" language family. For 10 points each:
Name this island whose language families include the South Bird's Head languages, named for their location on the peninsula at its western end. Its most widely-spoken language is the creole Tok Pisin.
This creole language spoken in New Guinea is the only creole language to have developed from German colonization. It originated among the students of German-speaking Catholic mission schools.
This disease, derived from the word for "trembling" in the New Guinean Kore language, was common among the Kore until they ceased ritual cannibalism, which enabled this prion disease to spread via brain tissue.
New Guinea [or Papua, or Irian, or Niugini]
Unserdeutsch
kuru
This scholar has worked with Emmanuel Saez <strong>("sighs")</strong> on many papers including one where they discuss dividend and corporate taxation in the agency model of the firm. For 10 points each:
Name this Harvard economist, formerly of Stanford, who has also done work on the income distribution of the parents of college students.
Chetty's paper "The Fading American Dream" focuses on the social form of this phenomenon where children earn more than their parents. Corak and others have found that this phenomenon is more prevalent in Canada than the United States.
In other inequality research, some including Massey have found that this local land-use tool have increased segregation by income and race. This policy dictates what type of building development can happen in a certain area.
Raj Chetty
social mobility [accept inter-generational earnings elasticity as it's like the inverse]
(restrictive) zoning
Some of the assumptions of this model include assuming no transaction costs, the returns are normally distributed and the risk free rate is known and constant. For 10 points each:
Name this model of option pricing that calculates the theoretical value for a European option and the numerator of the d1 term in this model includes a log of the ratio of the current stock price and the option strike price summed to the quantity r + s squared all times t.
This Lebanese-American statistician maintains that there are several flaws in Black-Scholes and that its formulation was just a manipulation of the risk parameter through dynamic hedging. He also wrote the book Black Swan about rare events.
This lemma is used to determine the derivative of time-dependent function of a stochastic process. It performs the chain rule in a stochastic setting and can help with solving stochastic differential equations which are commonly used in quantitative finance.
Black-Scholes-Merton model
Nassim Nicholas Taleb
Ito's Lemma
Watts and Duncan have attempted to verify the results of a study involving this foodstuff and found that many socioeconomic factors impacted whether a child would eat this food right away. For 10 points each:
Name this white sugary food that was the subject of a Stanford experiment in which children participants had to wait 15 minutes to get two of these items.
A 1990 follow-up study to the Marshmallow Experiment found that that the ability to engage in this practice correlated with SAT Scores. This process is when a subject resists an initial reward for a future reward.
Another food-related study by Baumeister involved these vegetables and cookies and found that, after consuming this vegetable, participants spent less time completing puzzles. Because those who ate the cookies spent more time, it was argued that eating this food reduced willpower.
Marshmallow [accept Stanford Marshmallow Experiment]
Delayed Gratification
Radish
The title of one essay by of this thinker asks whether the subaltern can speak and questions why the practice of Sati isn’t well-documented. For 10 points each:
Name this postcolonial scholar also known for her translation of Derrida’s Of Grammatology.
The concept of the subaltern comes from the works of this Italian Marxist, who created the concept of cultural hegemony in his Prison Notebooks
Dalit are often regarded as being the "subaltern" of this country whose historiography the field of Subaltern Studies was created to deal with. This country's modern thinkers include Amartya Sen.
Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak
Antonio Gramsci
Republic of India
For 10 points each, answer the following about different theories of international relations.
In The Lexus and the Olive Tree, Thomas Friedman argued that globalization has reduced conflict which has been summarized to say that no two countries with this restaurant chain have attacked each other.
In some ways similar to Friedman's globalization thesis, this perspective in IR asserts that democratic nations are unlikely to go to war with each other. This IR theory, oft-contrasted with realism, also stresses the role of international organizations and free trade in state relations.
With Joseph Nye, this Princeton political scientist is considered one of the founders of neoliberalism. This man edited a book that summarizes Kenneth Waltz's neorealism and contains several critiques of Waltz.
McDonald's [accept Mickey D's or Golden Arches Theory of Conflict Prevention]
Liberalism [also accept neoliberalism]
Robert Keohane
One member of this non-human species was supposedly distraught when her friend Robin Williams died in 2014. For 10 points each:
Identify this ape species. A person dressed up like this ape appears in a video where people pass basketballs to demonstrate the idea of selective attention.
Some have suggested that the research involving Koko has been plagued by this research issue. This issue, common in the study of primates, is when researchers choose to mention the part of the observation that confirms their idea. In this phenomenon, bigoted people may interpret satirical cartoons as enforcing bigotry.
This primatologist was an expert on mountain gorillas in Rwanda until her murder. She wrote the 1983 book Gorillas in the Mist about her work at the Karisoke Research center.
gorilla
selective interpretation [accept selective perception; prompt on selection bias]
Dian Fossey
This model of endogenous growth includes a term where the derivative of <em>h</em> is equal to phi times the quantity of 1 minus <em>L</em> in one of its two differential equations. For 10 points each:
Identify this model of economic growth that was partially inspired by Uzawa's 1965 paper and was published in the 1980s. This model's production function is similar to a Cobb-Douglas production function where the Labor term is multiplied by coefficients l and h.
In this perhaps more famous model of economic growth, the optimal level of capital per worker, k star, is where the break even capital per worker is equal to the savings rate times the output. This model suggests a "golden rule" savings rate.
The classical Solow model does not account for open economies where this type of exchange takes place. Riccardo's idea of comparative advantage helps explain this economic phenomenon.
Lucas model [accept Lucas-Uzawa model]
Solow Swan model
Trade [prompt on international exchange]
The totality of these relations can be represented by a signed graph and both Herb Simon and Mark Granovetter did work in examining how these sociological entities interact. For 10 points each:
Name these information-carrying units between people that can also come in "strong" or "weak" forms.
Ties are central to the study to these entities that were studied by Milgram to show that there is, on average, about six degrees of separation between people. Facebook is seen as a virtual one of these things.
This contemporary French philosopher wrote about how the word "social" has become loaded with assumptions and tries to return to its original meanings in Reassembling the Social. He argued science and technology must be studied "in the making" in another book.
Interpersonal Ties [accept Weak Ties or Strong Ties]
social networks
Bruno Latour (The unnamed book is Science in Action)
Identify the following academics associated with the University of Chicago--none of whom are economists--for 10 points each.
This current Chicago scholar wrote about how Greeks such as Aristotle view moral luck in The Fragility of Goodness. She highlighted the experiences of women in developing countries in her 1999 book Sex and Social Justice.
The founder of the so-called Chicago School of Literary Criticism, this author of The Languages of Criticism and the Structure of Poetry opposed New Criticism and argued for a broad definition of the humanities to include the sciences and human institutions.
Earlier, this "mother of social work" taught a few classes at Chicago, but never took up a full position. This Nobel winner is probably most notable for co-founding the Hull House with Ellen Gates Starr.
Martha C. Nussbaum
Ronald Salmon Crane
Jane Addams
Answer the following about creole development for 10 points each.
This linguist developed the influential "bioprogram" theory of creole development and is a forceful critic of the idea that all creoles descend from a single source. This University of Hawaii linguist developed that theory while researching Guyanese creole.
One case often cited by bioprogram proponents is that of this country's sign language, developed autonomously by children in an orphanage for the deaf. The Miskito language is also spoken in this country.
The presence of serial verb constructions in Mauritian and Seychellois creole was another major discovery of Bickerton. Both of those creoles have this language as their superstrate, as does Haitian creole.
Derek Bickerton
Nicaragua
French
One theory about these objects says that their fluctuations are caused by changes in the stock of technology. For 10 points each:
Name these economic phenomena that are the boom and bust periods the economy periodically goes through.
This economist's namesake "moment" occurs when there is a collapse in the value of assets during the business cycle. He also notable for his financial instability hypothesis.
Real Business Cycles Theory was partially based on work by Nobel recipients Finn E. Kydland and Edward C. Prescott who were associated with this University. Along with Chicago Booth's Fama and Yale's Schiller, Lars Peter Hansen won the Nobel and taught at this private university.
business cycles [prompt on economic cycle or trade cycle]
Hyman Minsky
Carnegie Mellon University [or CMU; also accept Tepper School of Business]
In one book, this psychologist wondered if "there can be a way of really understanding the miracle of thinking" and said thinking concerns itself with visualizing "structural features." For 10 points each:
Identify this psychologist who wrote Productive Thinking and defined the phi phenomenon.
Wertheimer was a member of this psychological school that posits that the "whole is greater than the sum of its parts" which based its ideas of perception off of a phenomenological approach.
This term in Gestalt therapy consists of three zones of Inner, Outer and Middle and a method of directing patients to experience this phenomenon as "focusing on what is minimized or avoided" and "staying in the here and now." This term can be defined as being in touch with one's existence.
Max Wertheimer
Gestalt Psychology
Awareness [prompt on "mindfulness"; accept "Bewusstsein"]
This thinker noted the difference between production space, natural space and social space. For 10 points each:
Identify this philosopher and sociologist who argued that the total urbanization of society was inevitable in a book in which he argued against a conception developed by people like Le Corbusier.
Lefebvre also came up with the idea of right to these places. Jane Jacobs titled a book about the Death and the Life of the Great American version of these places.
This sociological model of cities, developed by Burgess, was developed using the city of Chicago as an example. The commuter zone is the farthest region identified by this model, while the Central Business District is in the center.
Henri Lefebvre (“Le-FEB”)
city [accept right to the city, The Death and the Life of Great American Cities, or Le Droit à la ville]
concentric zone model [also accept CCD, prompt on zone model]
Answer the following about sociolinguistics for 10 points each.
This sociolinguist pioneered the study of African-American Vernacular English with interviews with a Harlem gang leader. In another study by this linguist, he analyzed the use of class markers in the speech of department store customers.
A study by William O'Barr in one of these locations in North Carolina revolutionized the field of language and gender by demonstrating that women and lower-class males used similar "powerless speech" markers.
A major subject of sociolinguistic research is the social connotations of a vowel shift underway among youth in this state in which the "Valley girl" dialect originated.
William "Bill" Labov
courtrooms [accept courts]
California
In her essay "Lust Horizons: Is the Women's Movement Pro-Sex?", this author argues against sexual conservatism in the feminist movement. For 10 points each:
Name that journalist and essayist who was one of the founders of the radical feminist group Redstockings who also originated the term "pro-sex feminism."
Willis characterized the supporters of a crusade against these materials as authoritarian and puritanical. Some feminists argue that these materials exploit women but some make a distinction between it and erotica.
This feminist author of Right-Wing Women claimed there was a link between pornography and rape and violence against women. This author and Catharine MacKinnon sought to restrict to access to pornography.
Ellen Willis
pornography [accept obvious equivalents]
Andrea Dworkin
This syntactic phenomenon occurs between two anaphors X and Y if and only if X c-commands Y, and X and Y corefer. For 10 points each:
Name this syntactic phenomenon. In the 1980s, Noam Chomsky developed its Principles A, B, and C in a series of lectures on government and this phenomenon.
These languages, which allow pronouns to be omitted when they are inferable from syntax or pragmatics, are assumed to have phonologically-null noun phrases in subject position in government and binding theory.
In government and binding theory, verbs and prepositions govern this grammatical feature of nouns and pronouns. In English, this grammatical feature includes the nominative, the accusative, and the genitive.
binding [or government and binding; accept word forms like bind or bound]
pro-drop languages
grammatical case &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
This book argues that while US political parties strongly favor the wealthy, Republicans wear “black hats,” whereas Democrats wear “grey hats.” For 10 points each:
Name this 2010 book by political scientists Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson, which argues that income inequality in the United States is largely a product of political forces.
This plurality voting system is often called “winner-take-all.” In this system, voters pick a single candidate and the candidate with the most votes wins. It usually results in a two-party system due to Duverger’s (“doo-vair-ZHAY’s”) law.
Since first-past-the-post voting leads to many wasted votes, it is more susceptible to this practice in which district boundaries are manipulated to favor one party or group over another.
Winner-Take-All Politics [or Winner-Take-All Politics: How Washington Made the Rich Richer—and Turned Its Back on the Middle Class]
first-past-the-post voting [or FPTP voting or FPP voting]
gerrymandering &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
A theorem states that “rotten” members of these groups will maximize the utility of the entire group so long as it benefits them. For 10 points each:
Name this group that is the subject of an economic “treatise” by Gary Becker. In its chapter on the division of labor, Becker argues that agents in this group should specialize by investing in different kinds of capital.
This French sociologist argued that primitive societies maintain order through a “conscience collective” in his magnum opus, The Division of Labor in Society.
The Division of Labor in Society argues that anomie arises when the division of labor fails to produce this sort of social cohesion that arises because individuals are dependent on other individuals to perform specialized jobs.
the family [or families; accept A Treatise on the Family]
Émile Durkheim (“dur-KEM”)
organic solidarity [prompt on solidarity; do not accept “mechanical solidarity”] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
Marshall Sahlins argued that individuals in these societies only worked between three and five hours a day in an article that dubs them the “original affluent society.” For 10 points each:
Name these foraging-based societies that declined after the spread of agriculture in the Neolithic Revolution.
Marshall Sahlins taught this anarchist anthropologist, who argued that societies arose from “everyday communism” in his book Debt: The First 5000 Years.
In a 2018 book, Graeber included “box-tickers” and “taskmasters” as examples of these things that are “bullshit.” Arlie Hochschild (“HOCK-child”) examined the emotional requirements associated with them in The Managed Heart.
hunter-gatherer societies [prompt on partial answer]
David Graeber
jobs [accept Bullshit Jobs] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
This thinker called Black women “outsiders-within” because they are excluded from both feminist and Black thought. For 10 points each:
Name this University of Maryland sociologist who examined the intellectual history of African-American women in her 1990 book Black Feminist Thought.
Patricia Hill Collins argued that this concept works within a “matrix of domination.” Kimberlé Crenshaw coined this concept, which argues that the most marginalized are oppressed by interlocking systems of power.
This earlier sociologist described how African-Americans suffered from “double consciousness” in The Souls of Black Folk. This man also served as first president of the NAACP and edited its magazine The Crisis.
Patricia Hill Collins
intersectionality [or word forms]
W. E. B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
In a widely-cited paper, Daron Acemoğlu (“dah-ROAN ah-jay-MOH-loo”) and James Robinson used European settler mortality rates as an instrumental variable for the strength of these entities in formerly colonized countries. For 10 points each:
Name these entities, which have “inclusive” and “extractive” types contrasted in Acemoğlu and Robinson’s book Why Nations Fail. Douglass North defined these entities as the “rules of the game” in human interactions.
The institutional economist Elinor Ostrom became the first woman to win the Nobel Prize in Economics thanks to her work on this problem proposed by Garrett Hardin, in which people acting rationally deplete a shared resource.
Ronald Coase (“koce”), who founded New Institutional Economics, proposed a namesake theorem stating that without transaction costs, bargaining can efficiently resolve these costs and benefits incurred by unrelated third parties.
institutions
tragedy of the commons [accept Governing the Commons]
externalities [or externality; or spillover effects] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;
This book follows a group started by Dorothy Martin, who founded a UFO cult after claiming to have received a message from the planet Clarion telling them that “spacemen” would take them away. For 10 points each:
Name this book that was written by a group of researchers who infiltrated a UFO cult in Chicago called the Seekers. This book examined the UFO cultists’ feelings of cognitive dissonance.
When Prophecy Fails was co-written by this psychologist, Henry Riecken, and Stanley Schachter. In addition to his study of cognitive dissonance, this psychologist pioneered social comparison theory.
Festinger has been credited with challenging the then-dominant psychological school of behaviorism, which was championed by this psychologist who created an operant conditioning chamber called his namesake “box.”
When Prophecy Fails [or When Prophecy Fails: A Social and Psychological Study of a Modern Group That Predicted the Destruction of the World]
Leon Festinger
B. F. Skinner [or Burrhus Frederic Skinner; accept Skinner box] &lt;JH, Social Science&gt;
Amartya Sen argued that this sort of event in Bengal was caused by a combination of a lack of democratic governance and inefficiencies in distribution, rather than “absolute scarcity.” For 10 points each:
Name these shortages of food, one of which took place in Bengal in 1943. Olivier Rubin re-examined the evidence in his book titled after democracy and these events.
Arturo Escobar wrote the need for “pluriverses” in a book titled after “encountering” this concept. Life expectancy, education, and per capita income are factors used to calculate a namesake index for this concept.
This anthropologist critiqued the “development discourse fantasy” for making political decisions appear to be as if they were “technical solutions to technical problems” in his book The Anti-Politics Machine.
famines [accept hunger or starvation]
human development [accept human development index]
James Ferguson &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
Many Romance languages exhibit a phenomenon in which these morphemes “climb” to the matrix clause and attach to the matrix verb. For 10 points each:
Name these morphemes that are pronounced like affixes but have phrase-level syntactic roles. A standard example in English is the contracted forms of the auxiliary verbs in “I’m” and “we’ve.”
Zwicky and Pullum wrote a widely-cited paper contrasting cliticization with this morphological process that produces grammatical variants of a word, such as conjugating a verb or declining a noun.
This Asian language notably lacks inflectional affixes. The Wade–Giles and Pīnyīn systems are used to Romanize this language, which differentiates between homophones through four different tones.
clitics
inflection [or word forms; do not accept or prompt on “derivation”]
Mandarin Chinese [or Pǔtōnghuà or Guóyǔ or Huáyǔ or Gūanhuà; prompt on Chinese; prompt on Zhōngwén] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
A “massive” version of this thesis is defended in the book <em>The Architecture of the Mind</em> by Peter Carruthers (“ker-OTHERS”). For 10 points each:
Identify this thesis that names a 1983 book by Jerry Fodor. It contends that the mind is composed of systems that are, among other things, domain-specific and informationally encapsulated.
Fodor’s work on modularity was inspired by this argument against empiricist accounts of language acquisition which holds that children do not receive enough evidence to infer core aspects of language.
This MIT linguist formulated the poverty of the stimulus argument. He formulated transformational generative grammar in his 1957 book Syntactic Structures.
modularity of mind [accept word forms like modular]
poverty of the stimulus [or POS]
Noam Chomsky &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
In this experiment, “superordinate goals” reduced conflict between two groups known as the “Rattlers” and the “Eagles.” For 10 points each:
Name this seminal experiment in social conflict theory, conducted at a namesake Oklahoma state park by Muzafer Sherif.
The contact hypothesis contends that intergroup interaction reduces this form of disparate treatment based on group-membership, such as race, gender, and religion.
Henri Tajfel (“TYE-fell”) invented this methodological paradigm to study how seemingly arbitrary distinctions can lead to the formation of “in” and “out” groups.
Robbers Cave experiment
discrimination [accept word forms; accept prejudice]
minimal group paradigm &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
In finite games with perfect information, this method always calculates a subgame perfect Nash equilibrium. For 10 points each:
Name this optimization technique in game theory that involves iteratively reasoning from the final decision node to the initial decision node in an extensive form game.
Backward induction makes unrealistic predictions in this game in which one actor proposes a division of a sum of money that the second actor can either accept or reject, in which case neither actor gets any money.
If this game is played a finite number of times, backward induction finds that the two players defect in each subgame. Played a single time, this game’s Nash equilibrium has both players choosing to defect over cooperate.
backward induction [accept backward chaining or backward inference; prompt on induction]
ultimatum game [do not accept “dictator game”]
prisoner’s dilemma &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
This thinker described his ideas in formulas known as “mathemes.” For 10 points each:
Name this psychoanalyst who discussed the importance of small children recognizing themselves in his conception of the “Mirror Stage.” He published most of his work in his Écrits (“ay-KREE”).
Lacan’s work in psychoanalysis influenced Laura Mulvey’s later psychoanalytic theories about this art form. Slavoj Žižek (“SLAH-voy ZHEE-zhek”) analyzed this art form in a psychoanalytic “pervert’s guide” that explored works like The Matrix and Psycho, among others.
In “Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema,” Mulvey used the concept of “scopophilia” to describe this visual phenomenon, in which a certain group of people are objectified for the pleasure of the audience.
Jacques Lacan
films [or movies; or cinema; accept The Pervert’s Guide to Cinema]
male gaze [prompt on gaze] &lt;VS, Social Science&gt;
Joseph Nye distinguished this concept’s “hard” form from its “soft” form, which is a nation’s ability to influence other states without using military force. For 10 points each:
Identify this ability of a state to influence the international system.
Kenneth Waltz’s Theory of International Politics popularized the “neo-” version of this approach to IR theory that views states as power maximizers. It is divided into offensive and defensive branches.
This defensive realist argued that states balance against perceived threats rather than against all increases in power. With John Mearsheimer, he was accused of anti-Semitism for writing The Israel Lobby and U.S. Policy.
power
neorealism
Stephen M. Walt &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
David Kennedy criticized the role that these things play in international governance in his book <em>Dark Sides of Virtue</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these norms articulated in a 1948 “universal declaration” by the United Nations, which declared them to be the foundation of “freedom, justice and peace in the world.”
This earlier critic of the concept of “human rights” lambasted them as “the rights of egoistic man, of man separated from other men and from the community” in his On the Jewish Question.
This Yale legal scholar and historian argued that the promotion of human rights functioned as a conservative response to the demands of decolonized countries in his book The Last Utopia.
human rights [accept Universal Declaration of Human Rights; prompt on rights]
Karl Marx
Samuel Moyn &lt;Social Science&gt;
This thinker argued that humanist ethics and spiritual rootlessness resulted in an unsustainable “cut flower culture” in his 1951 book Judaism and Modern Man. For 10 points each:
Name this conservative sociologist of religion, best-known for advocating America’s status as a “triple melting pot” in his 1955 book Protestant, Catholic, Jew.
In Protestant, Catholic, Jew, Herberg argued that the religious revival of the 1950s was superficial, drawing on the ideas of “brand names” and “other-directed” personalities developed by David Riesman, Nathan Glazer, and Reuel Denney in this 1950 work.
Herberg was a longtime contributor to this right-wing American magazine founded by William F. Buckley Jr. in 1955.
Will Herberg
The Lonely Crowd
National Review
Ann Arnett Ferguson analyzed these places’ treatment of black males in her book Bad Boys. For 10 points each:
Name these places where the implementation of zero-tolerance policies and rising use of “resource officers” over the past few decades has resulted in a metaphorical “pipeline” from these institutions to prisons.
This thinker examined the disproportionate disciplining of black girls in American schools in Black Girls Matter, a 2014 report coauthored with Priscilla Ocen and Jyoti Nanda. She introduced the concept of “intersectionality” to race and gender studies in the late 1980s.
This author pointed to the “school-to-prison pipeline” as a key factor in the rise of mass incarceration in her 2010 book The New Jim Crow.
American public schools [accept school-to-prison pipeline]
Kimberle Williams Crenshaw
Michelle Alexander
Shmuel Eisenstadt argued that multiple forms of this concept have developed across various civilizations. For 10 points each:
Name this concept. Arjun Appadurai discussed the “cultural dimensions of globalization” in a book titled for concept “at large.”
This Polish sociologist’s idea of “liquid modernity” characterizes our era as demonstrating increased individual uncertainty and the privatization of ambivalence.
In another work, Bauman connected the ideology of modernity to this event, analyzing the scientific rationale for genocide present in statements such as Joseph Goebbels’s claim that there is “no hope of leading the Jews back into the fold of civilized humanity.”
modernity [accept “multiple modernities” or Modernity At Large]
Zygmunt Bauman
the Holocaust [or the Shoah; accept Modernity and the Holocaust] &lt;Social Science&gt; CAN BE READ TO ANYONE
A pioneering study of these places by Stanton and Schwartz influenced a book by Erving Goffman that analyzes the “tinkering trades” associated with them, as well as the “moral careers” of their inhabitants. For 10 points each:
Name these places. As part of his namesake experiment, David Rosenhan and others faked symptoms of schizophrenia in order to gain admittance to these places.
Rosenhan studied under this Scottish psychiatrist and founder of Kingsley Hall, who criticized the medicalization of schizophrenia in works such as The Politics of Experience and the Bird of Paradise.
Laing’s work was a key source of inspiration for the “schizoanalysis” advocated by Félix Guattari and this French philosopher in their books Anti-Oedipus and A Thousand Plateaus.
mental asylums [accept equivalents like insane asylums, mental hospitals, and psychiatric hospitals; prompt on hospitals]
R. D. Laing [or Ronald David Laing]
Gilles Deleuze (“jeel duh-LOOZ”) &lt;Social Science&gt;
To emphasize the dynamic nature of these two terms, Max Weber replaced them with their gerund forms in <em>Economy and Society</em>. For 10 points each:
Give these two German words that title an 1887 work by Ferdinand Tönnies (“TUR-neese”). One of them is based in subjective feeling and translates as “community,” while the other usually translates to “society.”
Gesellschaft is often illustrated using one of these documents as an example. Rousseau wrote about a “social” one of these things, in which people surrender some freedoms to a government that pledges to protect them.
Georg Simmel (“ZIM-ull”) posited that the use of this stuff moves society from Gemeinschaft towards Gesellschaft in a work titled for the Philosophy of it. William Stanley Jevons (“JEV-ins”) analyzed the “representative” type of this stuff.
Gemeinschaft (“guh-MINE-shoft”) AND Gesellschaft (“guh-ZELL-shoft”) [prompt on partial answer]
contract [or On the Social Contract, or Principles of Political Law; or Du contrat social; ou Principes du droit politique]
money [or The Philosophy of Money or representative money; accept equivalents like cash or currency] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
The thesis of this essay was later criticized by Jean Malaquais (“mah-lah-KWAY”), who argued that equivalents to its title group also existed in Russia, Japan, and Sweden. For 10 points each:
Name this 1957 essay that analyzes the emergence of “American existentialists” who use black America’s existence on the “margin between totalitarian and democracy” as a source of “hipness.”
In “The White Negro,” Norman Mailer argued that the trends he was describing signaled the decreasing success rate of this discipline in relieving the “infantile fantasies” of its patients. This discipline was first developed by Sigmund Freud.
Mailer’s understanding of “the psychology involved in the accelerating confrontation of black and white” in “The White Negro” was cited as an influence by this Black Panther in his 1968 essay collection Soul on Ice.
“The White Negro”
psychoanalysis [prompt on psychotherapy or therapy]
Eldridge Cleaver &lt;Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about American anthropologist and theorist of the anthropocene Anna Tsing, for 10 points each.
Tsing’s most recent book is a study of a particular example of this kind of organism. The book, subtitled “On the possibility of life in capitalist ruins,” uses this kind of organism as a metaphor for life in global capitalism.
Tsing’s Mushroom at the End of the World focuses on the Matsutake (“mott-soo-TAH-kay”) mushroom, which she notes was the first thing to grow in the land impacted by this weapon’s deployment against Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
James Ferguson, Tsing’s dissertation advisor, is most famous for books like The Anti-Politics Machine that criticize this concept as imperialist. Life expectancy, education, and income are used in an index of this measure.
mushrooms [or toadstool or basidiomycote; prompt on fungus or fungi]
atomic bomb [prompt on nuclear weapons or nukes]
human development [prompt on HDI] &lt;Social Science&gt;
In behavioral economics, prospect theory models the decisions people make that involve this phenomenon. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that is classically measured by the negative ratio of the second and first derivatives of utility, according to the Arrow–Pratt measure.
Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky developed prospect theory as an alternative to this theory, which predicts the value of a set of probabilistic outcomes based on its namesake statistical function.
Risk aversion only accounts for part of the so-called “equity premium puzzle,” which tries to explain the large disparity in premiums between government bonds and these assets.
risk [accept risk aversion]
expected utility theory [accept expectation or expected value]
stocks &lt;Social Science&gt;
This essay traces its first title concept’s historical progression through “civil,” “political,” and “social” phases. For 10 points each:
Identify this T. H. Marshall essay that claims that in the 20th century, its first title concept, a supposed “principle of equality,” has been at war with its second title concept, a “system of inequality.”
Marshall’s theory of “social citizenship” inspired Nancy Fraser and Linda Gordon’s essay “Contract Versus Charity,” which examines inequalities associated with this characteristic, including an average “pay gap” of roughly twenty percent.
Fraser and Gordon have both published scathing critiques of the methods for closing the gender pay gap proposed in this liberal feminist’s 2013 book Lean In.
“Citizenship and Social Class”
gender [or sex]
Sheryl Sandberg &lt;Social Science&gt;
Nicholas Kaldor and John Hicks helped develop the “new” type of this field. For 10 points each:
Name this subfield of economics whose two fundamental theorems outline the conditions under which markets will reach a particular Pareto optimal outcome.
This theorem is considered to be the third fundamental theorem of welfare economics. It states that no ranked voting system can satisfy three “fairness” criteria.
This economist and Martha Nussbaum created the “capabilities” approach to welfare economics. He criticized the assumption that humans are only motivated by self-interest in his essay “Rational Fools.”
welfare economics
Arrow’s impossibility theorem [or general possibility theorem; or Arrow’s paradox]
Amartya (Kumar) Sen &lt;Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about the English word “a” in linguistics. For 10 points each:
The unstressed version of “a” makes this most common vowel sound in English, phonetically described as a mid central vowel. This sound is represented by an upside-down “e” in the International Phonetic Alphabet.
The word “a” belongs to this lexical category, which precedes nouns in English. Words in this lexical category include articles like “the,” demonstratives like “this,” and quantifiers like “every.”
In truth-conditional semantics, the denotation of “a” can be analyzed as this kind of mathematical object, a subset of the Cartesian product of two sets. For example, “A cat is eating” is true if and only if the ordered pair of the set of cats and the set of eaters is an element of this kind of object.
schwa
determiner [accept determinative]
binary relation &lt;Social Science&gt;
In his article “Action Research and Minority Problems,” this thinker argued in favor of defining groups not by the similarity of their individuals but by “interdependence of fate.” For 10 points each:
Name this social psychologist who helped to develop the methods of sensitivity training during his time as director of MIT’s Center for Group Dynamics.
In an equation first articulated in his Principles of Topological Psychology, Lewin argued that this trait is a function of a person in their environment. A psychological school of thought named for this trait was promoted by John Watson.
Lewin introduced this term to American psychology in his book A Dynamic Theory of Personality. It describes the levels of positivity or negativity associated with particular emotions.
Kurt Lewin
behavior [or behaviorism]
valence &lt;Social Science&gt;
Answer the following about Asian language isolates, for 10 points each.
The Hokkaido variant became the only surviving member of the Ainu languages after the last speaker of the variant named after this large Russian island died in 1994.
This most commonly spoken language isolate in the world makes use of seven “speech levels” divided into jondaenmal (“chohn-den-mahl”) and banmal (“pahn-mahl”). It is written using the Hangul alphabet.
Starting in the 1920s, some linguists began to group Korean into this Eurasian language family that also includes the Turkic and Mongolic language groups, though this classification is still disputed.
Sakhalin Island [or Sakhalin Ainu]
Korean
Altaic languages &lt;Social Science&gt;
This book analyzes situations in which “the rational individual… is faced with questions of constitutional choice.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1962 book by James Buchanan and Gordon Tullock that analyzes the “rule of unanimity” in relation to constitutional decision-making.
The Calculus of Consent is a foundational work in this academic field, which broadly attempts to use economic methods to deal with questions in political science.
James Buchanan spent the bulk of his academic career in this state. Nancy MacLean’s 2017 book Democracy in Chains argues that Buchanan’s brand of public choice theory has served as the intellectual basis for the rebirth of the radical right, most notably through the Mercatus Center at this state’s George Mason University.
The Calculus of Consent: Logical Foundations of Constitutional Democracy
public choice theory
Virginia &lt;Social Science&gt;
In a notable disagreement with Friedrich Engels’s <em>The Origin of the Family</em>, this thinker argued that male-dominated family structures have a biological basis. For 10 points each:
Name this radical feminist author of The Dialectic of Sex.
Firestone founded the New York Radical Feminists group with Anne Koedt (“coat”), who is best-known for an essay on the “Myth of the Vaginal” form of this sexual response, which she claims arose due to Freud’s framing of the clitoral method of achieving this response as “juvenile.”
Firestone’s notion of “sex class” is comparable to this earlier thinker’s notion of the “social sex economy,” outlined in his book The Invasion of Compulsory Sex-Morality. This German psychoanalyst tried to harness a universal life force called “orgone” (“or-GOH-nay”) energy by having people sit in small, enclosed spaces.
Shulamith Firestone
orgasm [or “The Myth of the Vaginal Orgasm”]
Wilhelm Reich &lt;Philosophy&gt;
Answer the following about the use of the comparative method in historical linguistics, for 10 points each.
The comparative method draws genetic links between languages by establishing sound correspondences, allowing the reconstruction of languages like this proposed ancestor of English, Greek, and Sanskrit.
The comparative method is based on the idea that sound changes are regular and apply without exception, a hypothesis named for this group of 19th-century German linguists, which included Osthoff and Brugmann.
Critics of the Neogrammarians include this “father of sociolinguistics” who argued that a variety of social factors affect the diffusion of lexical innovations in his Principles of Linguistic Change. He analyzed “ebonics” in his book Language in the Inner City.
Proto-Indo-European [or PIE; prompt on Indo-European]
Neogrammarians [accept the Neogrammarian Hypothesis; also accept the Young Grammarians or Junggrammatiker]
William Labov &lt;Social Science&gt;
This concept’s role in creating “digital divides” and automating research are two of “six provocations” about it proposed by Kate Crawford and danah boyd. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word phrase that describes the collection and analysis of large quantities of information.
The rise of Big Data “increases inequality and threatens democracy,” according to the subtitle of this author’s 2016 book Weapons of Math Destruction. This thinker maintains the blog Mathbabe.org.
A 2016 ProPublica study analyzed the disparate racial outcomes of Northpointe’s COMPAS algorithm for predicting this action, which uses a survey that asks respondents to agree or disagree with statements like “A hungry person has a right to steal.”
Big Data
Cathy O’Neil
recidivism risk [or recidivist behavior; accept descriptive answers, such as “the odds of a prisoner committing another crime after released”; prompt on crime or criminal behavior] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
M0 and M1 are considered “narrow” measures of this quantity, while M2 and M4 are more commonly employed “broad” measures of this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity, the total stock of currency and other liquid assets in a given economy at a given time. Many of Milton Friedman’s policy proposals centered on maintaining a slow, constant growth of this quantity.
This economist grounded the quantity theory of money by being the first to algebraically formulate the equation of exchange, MV=PT. He also names an equation that relates real and nominal interest rates.
This alternative to Fisher’s equation of exchange includes a constant k equal to the proportion of national income that the public wish to hold in cash. This equation emphasises demand for money as a store of value.
money supply [accept money stock; prompt on money]
Irving Fisher
The Cambridge equation [or the Cambridge cash-balance equation] &lt;HO&gt;
It has been claimed that this language has no numerals, instead just using words for “small quantity” and “large quantity.” For 10 points each:
Name this language spoken by around 300 people in the Amazon basin. It is controversially claimed that it has no colour words, has one of the smallest known phoneme inventories, and supports linguistic relativity.
This American missionary-turned-linguist is responsible for the vast majority of the fieldwork conducted on Pirahã. He wrote about his 30 years spent among the tribe in Don’t Sleep, There Are Snakes.
Another of Everett’s contentious claims is that Pirahã lacks recursion and thus falsifies this occasional political activist’s namesake foundational approach to linguistics, put forward in works like Syntactic Structures.
Pirahã
Daniel Everett
Noam Chomsky &lt;EJW&gt;
This thinker was not only a Quebec separatist, but also wanted Toronto to break away from Ontario, believing that cities had to be politically separate to thrive. For 10 points each:
This author of The Death and Life of Great American Cities attacked urban renewal for not respecting citizens’ needs, and fought Robert Moses over plans to redevelop her neighbourhood, Greenwich Village.
In Death and Life, Jacobs argued for the value of networks using the “social” form of this concept, as discussed by Robert Putnam in Bowling Alone. In economics, this term refers to wealth in money or assets.
Death and Life heavily critiques “orthodox urbanism”, using examples like the Garden City movement founded by this British urban planner. This thinker’s ideas later influenced the post-war New Towns and EPCOT.
Jane Jacobs
social capital
Ebenezer Howard &lt;EJW&gt;
Judith Butler argues that this concept is “performative” in a work named for this concept’s <em>Trouble</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, hierarchical social structures of which are often called “patriarchy” in contemporary feminism, which seeks, among other things, to analyse and undermine the namesake “roles” of this thing.
N. Katherine Hayles, Rosi Braidotti, and the “cyborg feminist” Donna Haraway have incorporated feminism into this field, which attacks post-Enlightenment anthropocentrism. Other scholars in it focus on “the singularity.”
This pioneer of eco-feminism challenged humans’ “standpoint of mastery” and links it to patriarchal attitudes in Feminism and the Mastery of Nature. She partly credits those insights to nearly being eaten by a crocodile.
gender
Posthumanism [also accept transhumanism and word forms; prompt on anything similar to futurism or antihumanism and word forms].
Val Plumwood &lt;CB&gt;
This work argues that the state cannot be defined by “enumerating its activities,” but only by the specific means that are available to it. For 10 points each:
Name this 1919 essay, which goes on to describe the state as that which has “a monopoly on legitimate physical violence” within a territory.
‘Politics as a Vocation” is an essay by this German sociologist, who also wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
In “Politics as a Vocation”, Weber argues that the practice of politics is difficult because politicians are prone to this quality, which makes them emotionally attached to their followers.
“Politics as a Vocation”
Max Weber
Vanity [accept Eitelkeit] &lt;Tom&gt;
As a verb, this term can refer to undermining normality by finding an alterity of some kind in literary texts and cultural products, as seen in Susan Stryker’s work on <em>Frankenstein</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this term, pioneers in the “theory” of which include Eve Sedgwick and Jack Halberstam. Especially in popular use, this term refers to anything deviating from heteronormative ideas of sexuality and gender.
The term “queer theory” itself was coined in 1990 by this Italian feminist and author of Technologies of Gender and Alice Doesn’t. She disavowed the term soon after, disliking its hijacking by mainstream writers.
Michel Foucault’s indirect influence on queer theory centers on his introduction of this term in his History of Sexuality. This term refers to how nation-states wield authority by controlling the bodies of citizens.
queer [very, very generously prompt on non-binary; anti-prompt on genderqueer]
Teresa de Lauretis
biopower &lt;EJW&gt;
Answer some questions about social science conducted in New Haven, Connecticut, or at least by professors at a certain podunk university there, for 10 points each:
Gerber and Green conducted many of their seminal experiments on how to encourage people to participate in these events in New Haven. A method of conducting these events is named for Jean-Charles de Borda.
This “dean of American political science” criticized C. Wright Mills’ The Power Elite with an analysis of New Haven in Who Governs? He formulated the concept of “polyarchy” in works like Democracy and Its Critics.
New Haven, specifically Yale, was where this psychologist conducted his infamous “obedience experiment.” He investigated the idea of “six degrees of separation” in his “small world” experiment.
elections [also accept voting and such]
Robert A. Dahl
Stanley Milgram &lt;JG&gt;
This thinker liked to use weird pseudo-mathematical symbols, for example ‘$ &lt; &gt; a’ meaning ‘fantasy’, as well as his ‘graph of desire’. For 10 points each:
Name this French psychoanalyst, who pioneered the idea of the mirror stage in his gloriously impenetrable Écrits.
Lacan gave an influential series of seminars in Paris from 1953 to 1981, in an effort to return to the ideas of this Austrian founder of psychoanalysis. He postulated the Oedipus complex and the id, ego and superego.
Lacan also reinterpreted the object relation, building on the works of this other psychoanalyst. This author of The Psychoanalysis of Children feuded with Anna Freud when they proposed that the superego existed from birth.
Jacques Lacan
Sigmund Freud
Melanie Klein &lt;JK&gt;
This analytical framework invokes the economic domination of “periphery” countries or regions by a “core” territory or power centre. For 10 points each:
Name this model of history and geopolitics notably employed by Janet Abu-Lughod and Immanuel Wallerstein, the latter of whom saw its origins in sixteenth-century capitalist agriculture.
This author of The Development of Underdevelopment contends that the world-system had already formed by 1500. He described Song China's dominance of the world-system in ReOrient: Global Economy in the Asian Age.
Wallerstein suggested that the presence of the world-system implies that this process, sometimes defined as increasing worldwide interconnection and interdependence, has been happening for 500 years.
World-Systems Theory/Analysis [accept the world-economy] (yes, Janet Abu-Lughod is Lila’s mother, if anybody’s wondering)
Andre Gunder Frank
Globalisation &lt;HO&gt;
An encounter with this person while studying at Oxford inspired Godfrey Lienhardt to become an anthropologist himself. For 10 points each:
Name this British anthropologist, whose works include Theories of Primitive Religion and Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic among the Azande. He trained under Bronislaw Malinowski and Charles Gabriel Seligman.
Evans-Pritchard conducted extensive studies on the Nu’er people of Sudan, analysing practices such as their “ghost” form of this practice. Cattle may be given as a dowry before one of these ceremonies.
Evans-Pritchard was also a proponent of the structural-functionalist view of social anthropology, the founder of which is often considered to be this man who studied the Andaman Islanders and tribes in Western Australia.
Edward Evan “E.E.” Evans-Pritchard
marriage [or wedding]
Alfred Reginald “A.R.” Radcliffe-Brown &lt;EJW&gt;
This historian examined disputes related to the use of forests and chases in a work which argued that the 1723 Black Act was the product of an emergent, oppressive, market-oriented regime. For 10 points each:
Name this Marxist historian, best known for his study The Making of the English Working Class.
In a 1971 Past and Present article, Thompson considered this title facet of the English crowd in the eighteenth century. The setting of “fair prices” by riotous peasants was central to this concept.
Thompson's article considered riots and the sending of threatening letters prompted by scarcity of this stuff and its export to cities. Word of this commodity’s scarcity prompted Marie Antoinette’s most infamous remark.
E.P. Thompson
“The Moral Economy of the English Crowd”
bread [accept, flour, grain, specific grains such as wheat, or just food in general] &lt;HO&gt;
This graph was supposedly sketched on a napkin by its namesake during a meeting with Dick Cheney in 1974. For 10 points:
Name this inverted-U shaped graph, which depicts the theoretical relationship between tax rates and tax revenue, showing that if tax rates are too high, cutting tax rates may increase tax revenue.
These taxes named for a Cambridge economist increase efficiency by correcting for the over-consumption of a taxed good causing a negative externality.
A result by Chamley and Judd states that this type of tax’s optimal rate is zero in a steady state, though Straub and Werning showed that a positive rate may be optimal when the tax’s income effect is taken into account.
the Laffer curve
Pigouvian taxes [accept Pigovian taxes]
capital income tax [prompt on corporate or corporation tax] &lt;KV&gt;
This process may be either “declarative” or “procedural”, depending on whether the information involved is explicit or implicit. For 10 points each:
Name this human ability. The limits of the “short-term” variety of this ability were explored in George A. Miller’s 1956 paper “The Magical Number 7, Plus or Minus 2”, which discusses “chunking”.
This German psychologist did early research on memory, testing himself using nonsense syllables. Perhaps more usefully for quizzers, he also formulated a “forgetting curve” to show the speed at which we forget new facts.
Nowadays we know a lot more about how memory functions in the brain thanks partly to patients such as this man, who developed severe amnesia in 1953 after William Scoville removed his hippocampi to treat his epilepsy.
memory
Hermann Ebbinghaus
Henry Molaison [accept HM] &lt;EJW&gt;
You’re Ellie Warner, and you have decided, against all good judgment, to learn Polish. Answer some questions about some of the linguistic phenomena you will encounter, for 10 points each:
One difficulty is that Polish orthography has some key differences from English. For example, this letter in Polish represents the voiced labiodental fricative and not the voiced labiovelar glide like in English.
Pronunciation is difficult too, due to consonant clusters that arose in Slavic languages after the loss of these sounds. Russian still uses the Cyrillic letters for these sounds to indicate if a preceding consonant is palatalised.
Learning to construct a Polish sentence is also tricky, since it requires using seven of these grammatical categories, like the instrumental, locative, and dative, which determine morphosyntactic agreement.
w
strong and weak yers
grammatical cases &lt;EJW&gt; (EJW note: i did not write the lead in)
One <em>Disappearing World</em> film failed to capture Ongka giving one of these offerings that eventually consisted, off-camera, of 10,000 dollars, 600 pigs, 8 cows, a motorcycle, and a pick-up truck. For 10 points each:
Name this ceremonial exchange found among several peoples from New Guinea such as the Kawelka. Those who make the most extravagant offerings thereby gain significant informal authority and the title of “big man.”
The Moka system and “big men” were analyzed by this anthropologist. This author of Stone Age Economics argues that hunter-gatherers’ ability to fulfill their modest desires makes them “the original affluent society.”
The Moka system is an example of an exchange based on this action, examined in an “essay” on it by Marcel Mauss. This action produces implicit, non-monetary obligations based on reciprocity, such as in the potlatch.
the Moka exchange [prompt on, but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL answers like gift-giving]
Marshall Sahlins
gift-giving [accept equivalents] &lt;JG&gt;
This thinker argued that the family was the “central reactionary germ cell” for the reproduction of authoritarianism in a book that got him expelled from the International Psychoanalytic Association. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Mass Psychology of Fascism who argued that neuroses are caused by “orgastic impotence” and the suppression of sexual desire in The Sexual Revolution.
Reich’s lectures helped shape a form of therapy developed by Fritz and Laura Perls named after this German word. A school named after this word explained patterns of perception through the law of Prägnanz (PRAYG-nonts) and included Max Wertheimer and Wolfgang Köhler.
Reich’s Character Analysis influenced the work of this psychoanalyst, who clashed with Melanie Klein over child psychology and enumerated ten defense mechanisms. A dream she had before she turned two appeared in her father’s The Interpretation of Dreams.
Wilhelm Reich
Gestalt (guh-SHTALT)
Anna Freud (AH-nah FROYD) [prompt on Freud] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Psychology and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about the expression of group identities in politics, for 10 points each.
Arguing that traditional identity politics often ignores intragroup differences, Kimberlé Crenshaw coined this term to describe the ways that different kinds of identities, such as race, sexuality, and class, act in tandem.
This Indian-born theorist used the term “strategic essentialism” to describe how people who share an identity set aside their differences to achieve common goals. She translated Jacques Derrida’s Of Grammatology into English.
Mark Fisher, also known as k-punk, left this social media platform due to controversy over his blog post “Exiting the Vampire Castle,” which critiques identitarian politics. In May, a federal judge ruled that Donald Trump could not block people on this platform.
intersectionality
Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak
Twitter &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Social Criticism and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Prior to the DSM-V (D-S-M-five), these disorders, together with mental retardation, were grouped in a separate axis from nearly all other psychological diagnoses. For 10 points each:
Name this class of disorders characterized by long-lasting cognitive patterns and behaviors that disrupt everyday functioning. They are grouped into three clusters, and examples include the schizotypal, antisocial, and histrionic types.
Marsha Linehan developed dialectical behavior therapy to reduce suicidal ideation caused by this personality disorder, which is characterized by fluctuating moods and an ambiguous sense of self.
A personality disorder described by this term causes exaggerated self-importance and self-admiration. It is named after a character from Greek mythology.
personality disorders
borderline personality disorder [or BPD; or emotionally unstable personality disorder; or EUPD]
narcissism [or narcissistic personality disorder] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Psychology and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
This essay was written in response to Francis Fukuyama’s <em>The End of History and the Last Man</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this essay that defines “torn countries” and identifies fault lines where conflict will occur. This essay argues that conflict between cultures will replace ideological struggle in the post-Cold War world.
This Harvard political scientist developed the Clash of Civilizations hypothesis and coined the term “third wave of democratization” in his similarly-named book analyzing democratic transition after the Carnation Revolution.
This British historian of the Middle East used the term “clash of civilizations” in his 1990 essay “The Roots of Muslim Rage.” He defended Orientalist scholarship in debates with Edward Said (sah-EED).
“The Clash of Civilizations?”
Samuel Huntington
Bernard Lewis &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Social Criticism and was written by Nitin Rao&gt;
This psychiatrist identified a “triad” in patients of negative thoughts about themselves, the world, and the future and advocated reflecting on negative thoughts in order to dispel their validity. For 10 points each:
Name this Penn-based psychiatrist whose daughter Judith has continued to apply his therapeutic techniques.
Beck designed a 21-question “inventory” test to quantify the severity of this mental disorder, which is pharmaceutically treated with SSRIs such as Zoloft.
The identification, interrogation, and rational response to “automatic thoughts” is the fundamental process in this form of therapy developed by Beck. This approach was merged with Albert Ellis’s behavioral techniques to form a major paradigm in contemporary psychological treatment.
Aaron Beck [Aaron Temkin Beck]
depression [or major depressive disorder]
cognitive therapy &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Psychology and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
In her paper “Objectification,” Martha Nussbaum explicated and defended a passage in which this scholar wrote that objectification can be “a wonderful part of sexual life.” For 10 points each:
Name this American legal scholar, who introduced the terms “libertarian paternalism” and “choice architect” and wrote the book Nudge with behavioral economist Richard Thaler.
In The Partial Constitution, Cass Sunstein identified this case, which overturned limits to working hours for New York bakers, as an example of the Constitution’s bias towards the status quo. The “era” of this case was ended by West Coast Hotel v. Parrish.
Sunstein and Adrian Vermeule argued in favor of the death penalty based on evidence that it may have this kind of effect, in which punishment for crimes dissuades others from committing the same crimes.
Cass Robert Sunstein
Lochner v. New York
deterrence [or word forms] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
Robert Heilbroner’s <em>The Worldly Philosophers</em> is a qualitative book of this type. For 10 points each:
Wendy Carlin’s CORE project seeks to create a free replacement for what type of instructional book, whose standard repertoire includes instances by Daron Acemoğlu (dah-ROAN ah-jem-OH-loo) and Paul Samuelson?
The most widely assigned economics textbook in contemporary American universities is Principles of Economics by this Harvard professor and chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers to George W. Bush.
Mankiw and his textbook are usually identified as belonging to this school of macroeconomic thought, which improves upon the mainstream view of 20th-century economics to account for imperfect competition and the stickiness of prices and wages.
economics textbook [or macroeconomics textbook; or microeconomics textbook; prompt on textbook]
Greg Mankiw (MAN-kyoo) [Nicholas Gregory Mankiw]
New Keynesianism [do not accept or prompt on “Keynesianism”] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This man modified Patrick Geddes’s theories to divide the history of civilization into the eotechnic, paleotechnic, and neotechnic periods. For 10 points each:
Name this sociologist who wrote The Myth of the Machine and The City in History.
Mumford wrote in Technics and Civilization that this machine, “not the steam-engine, is the key-machine of the modern industrial age.” In the 13th century, water-based versions of these machines, called clepsydra, began to appear at monasteries.
Mumford used this proper name to refer to people who work in “megamachines.” Ward Churchill claimed that people killed in the 9/11 attacks were “little” versions of this person.
Lewis Mumford
clocks [accept water clocks]
Eichmanns [or little Eichmanns; or Otto Adolf Eichmann] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Sociology and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
A surprising fact in this field of economics is that the supply curve for its namesake quantity is backward-bending, meaning that proportionally less of it is provided at extremely low or extremely high prices. For 10 points each:
Name this field of economics, in which, on the micro level, agents must choose between consumption and leisure.
These two researchers found that callback rates were higher for résumés with white-sounding names than for those with black-sounding names in their paper “Are Emily and Greg More Employable than Lakisha and Jamal?”
Bertrand and Mullainathan’s research involved sending résumés to Boston and this Midwestern city. A school of economics in this city included George Stigler, who pioneered the use of search theory in labor economics.
labor economics
Marianne Bertrand AND Sendhil Mullainathan [accept in either order]
Chicago [or Chicago School of Economics] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Kurtis Droge&gt;
This man advocated “Just Community Schools” in which decision-making was based on a democratic process involving both teacher and student votes. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who identified the social contract and universal ethics as the two parts of the “post-conventional” stage in a model he created.
Kohlberg’s model outlines the development of this faculty, which is assessed in James Rest’s Defining Issues Test.
In a scenario introduced in Kohlberg’s Essays on Moral Development, a man named Heinz must decide whether it is moral to perform this action in order to save a life.
Lawrence Kohlberg
moral reasoning or judgment [or moral development]
steal a newly developed treatment or drug that he cannot afford [or break into or burglarize a laboratory or pharmacy; the drug is identified in the scenario as a “form of radium,” which is not a required part of the answer, but if the player specifies another particular substance or medical treatment then the answer is wrong] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Psychology and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
Contemporary English only retains two forms of this grammatical category, though it previously had another. For 10 points each:
Name this grammatical category that marks words for quantity.
This grammatical number marks exact pairs of nouns. It was lost in modern Greek and most Slavic languages, but is preserved in Slovenian. It only survives in words for body parts in Welsh and Hebrew.
The Tanoan languages, spoken in New Mexico, exemplify this idiosyncratic number system, where nouns are marked for whether or not their number is the expected amount; for example, the noun for one or three legs is marked, whereas for two it is unmarked.
grammatical number [do not accept “singular,” “plural,” or other examples of specific grammatical numbers]
dual number
inverse number &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Linguistics/Languages and was written by John Marvin&gt;
This field was co-founded by Jacob Mincer in 1965. For 10 points each:
Name this subfield of economics which uses allocation of time theory to analyze the impact of parents choosing not to join the workforce and the allocation of resources within the family unit.
New Home Economics was co-founded by this Chicago-based economist, who also advanced a rational choice theory of crime and collaborated with Kevin Murphy on rational addiction theory.
A 1964 Becker book was named for this two-word phrase; it refers to the body of skills which give labor its value and is named in analogy to a classical factor of production.
New Home Economics
Gary Becker [Gary Stanley Becker]
human capital &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This book identifies four additional puzzles to its title, including “missing information,” “political awareness,” and “legal failure.” For 10 points each:
Name this 2000 book by economist Hernando de Soto which advocates creating strong property rights regimes for the poor in order to bring the benefits of modern economic systems to the Third World.
The fifth mystery identified by de Soto is the lack of global awareness of this common field of study, which de Soto says must be understood to comprehend how capitalism developed within it. Frederick Jackson Turner wrote about “the significance of the frontier” in this thing, which is studied by Eric Foner and Howard Zinn.
A critique by de Soto of this 2013 book notes that its statistics leave out the informal economy that dominates in 90 percent of the world and claims that the Arab Spring was in part a “revolt” against weak protections of property rights for the poor. This book proposes a crisis arising when r is greater than g.
The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else
American history [or US history; prompt on history]
Capital in the Twenty-First Century &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This language’s word for “mustache” is “maus gras,” from “mouth grass.” For 10 points each:
Name this lingua franca spoken in Papua New Guinea whose lexicon is derived from English. Its word for “if” is “sapos” (sah-POHCE), from the English “suppose.”
Although Tok Pisin’s name is derived from “talk pidgin,” it is actually this kind of language, which usually arises when a generation of native speakers acquire a pidgin as their first language. The primary language of Haiti is an example of one of these languages based on French.
The fact that almost all creoles share certain grammatical features independently of their parent languages – for example, having the default verb tense be past rather than present – led Derek Bickerton to develop this universal grammar sub-theory. This theory argues that Creole grammar is enforced onto ungrammatical pidgins by its namesake innate mental structures.
Tok Pisin (tock PISS-in)
creole
language bioprogram theory/hypothesis &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Linguistics/Languages and was written by John Marvin&gt;
The third section of the book that fleshed out this idea claimed that corals, hymenopterans, non-human mammals, and humans are the four ends of evolution. For 10 points each:
Name this field of study that looks to the self-propagation of genes in nonhuman animals to explain human behavior, and was popularized by a 1975 book of the same name.
This leading critic of sociobiology co-coined the term “spandrel” with Stephen Jay Gould. He advocates a “constructivist” view of evolution that opposes the neo-Darwinian synthesis and emphasizes the role of organisms in creating environmental niches.
Sociobiology founder E. O. Wilson and Bert Hölldobler wrote a 1990 textbook about these animals that won a Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction. Wilson said of these animals “Karl Marx was right, socialism works, it is just that he had the wrong species.”
sociobiology
Dick Lewontin [Richard Charles Lewontin]
ants [or Formicidae] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Psychology and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
This environmental design theory comprises the five factors of territoriality, natural surveillance, image, milieu, and safe adjoining areas. For 10 points each:
Name this theory in urban planning developed by Oscar Newman. It links crime deterrence to physical factors built into small communities that evoke feelings of personal investment, security, and control in their residents.
Evidence that a community is not cared for, such as the presence of namesake unrepaired structures, encourages crime according to this theory proposed by James Q. Wilson and George Kelling.
The dilapidated title tower block in the film Paradise Hotel was part of an ambitious project to house these people. In the nineteenth century, some of their subgroups lived in ornate vardos, which are now mostly used at horse fairs.
defensible space
broken windows
Romani [or Romanichals; or Rumneys; or Gypsy] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Sociology and was written by Joelle Smart&gt;
When one of these objects was dropped from a canoe, the islanders agreed that it could still be used, since it was certainly still down there on the ocean floor. For 10 points each:
Name these stone discs used as currency on the island of Yap. Since they are huge, they are generally left in one spot and traded through ownership rather than physical possession.
Yap is located north of New Guinea, where this anthropologist did most of his research. This early anthropologist wrote Argonauts of the Western Pacific, one of the first books of social anthropology, based on research about the Trobriand Islands off the coast of New Guinea.
Malinowski examined this complex exchange system or gift economy, where Trobriand Islanders travel long distances to give necklaces to other groups.
rai stones
Bronisław Malinowski (BROH-nee-swoff mah-lin-OFF-skee)
the Kula ring [or Kula exchange] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Anthropology and was written by John Marvin&gt;
Answer the following about diamonds in economics, for 10 points each.
Adam Smith asked why diamonds are so much more valuable than this natural resource, a paradox that was not resolved until the articulation of the concept of marginal utility.
Economies heavily based on searching for appropriate transactional partners are modeled by Peter Diamond’s analogy to an island where you can only consume this object after trading it with another person.
A model of four controllable factors that drive comparative advantage in international trade is named for this competition theorist and is known as his “diamond.”
water
coconut [prompt on food; prompt on fruit]
Michael Porter [or the Porter diamond model] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
A book named for this place analyzes the “omnipotent, unknowing mother” in the work of Marcel Proust. For 10 points each:
That foundational work of queer theory by Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick is named for the “Epistemology” of this conceptual space. It argues that a homosexual versus heterosexual binary is overly simplistic.
This queer theorist argued that social policing of the gender binary creates “the bathroom problem” in his 1998 book Female Masculinity. She frequently uses gender to analyze pop culture, such as in 2012’s Gaga Feminism.
In “Queer Race,” Ian Barnard argues that queer theory is dominated by whiteness and often fails to account for the effects of race. This term coined by the black philosopher Kimberlé Crenshaw refers to frameworks, particularly in feminism, that acknowledge how different forms of marginalization affect each other.
the closet [accept Epistemology of the Closet]
Jack/Judith Halberstam
intersectionality [accept word forms] &lt;JK, Philosophy&gt;
According to the “critical” philosophy of this process, the goal should be emancipation from oppression through the creation of a critical consciousness. For 10 points each:
Name this process carried out in pedagogy, theorists of which include Maria Montessori.
This work by Paulo Freire is a foundational text of critical pedagogy. It argues against the “banking” model of education and for a model where students also create knowledge.
Freire acknowledges that the oppressed may fear freedom, but says it will come via this process of “reflection and action directed at the structures to be transformed.”
education [accept equivalents like teaching; prompt on school or learning]
Pedagogy of the Oppressed [or Pedagogia do Oprimido]
praxis [prompt on practice] &lt;MT, Philosophy&gt;
Each language has a different set of these sounds, ranging from just 11 in Pirahã (“pee-rah-HAH”) to 141 in !Kung (“kung”). For 10 points each:
Name these units of sound, the smallest units that can create a change in meaning in a given language. Infants can hear the difference between all of these units at birth, but lose the ability to differentiate those that do not occur in their language.
These pairs of words, which differ in only one phoneme, must exist in a language for the two sounds to be considered separate phonemes. “Bad” and “dad” are an example in English.
These two languages are often discussed when studying phonemes and minimal pairs. Speakers of one language can differentiate the sounds /r/ (“arr”) and /l/ (“ell”), but speakers of the other cannot, unless they are manipulated to not sound like speech, as studied by Kuniko Miyawaki.
phonemes
minimal pairs
Japanese AND English [accept Nihongo in place of “Japanese”] &lt;MT, Social Science (Linguistics)&gt;
The creation of this field was preceded by a mixed strategy solution to the Waldegrave problem. For 10 points each:
Identify this field that deals with interactions between rational decision-makers.
In the 1980s, a computerized study found that this strategy was optimal for playing the iterated prisoner’s dilemma. In this strategy, a player chooses to cooperate or defect depending on its opponent’s previous move.
In later studies, this method has often been shown to outperform the “tit-for-tat” strategy. This strategy, developed by Nowak and Sigmund, keeps the same policy if it is effective, but discards it if it is ineffective.
game theory
tit-for-tat
Pavlov strategy [accept “win–stay, lose–shift” or “win–stay, lose–switch” or WSLS] &lt;AJ, Social Science (Economics)&gt;
This term is often paired with “field” to remove the distinction between subjective and objective in sociology. For 10 points each:
Name this sociological term for the system of dispositions an individual uses to interpret and react to the social world.
The term habitus was developed by this sociologist in his book Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste. This Frenchman was influenced by Pascal to write his Pascalian Meditations.
In Distinction, Bourdieu discusses how having more of this concept allows an individual to have more influence on what constitutes taste in a society. The economic form of this concept titles a work by Karl Marx.
habitus
Pierre Bourdieu
capital [or kapital; or social capital; or cultural capital; prompt on k] &lt;MT, Social Science (Sociology)&gt;
Gaëtan Dugas was long misidentified as Patient Zero for this disease in America after his nickname of Patient “O” was misinterpreted. For 10 points each:
Name this disease whose spread and response were chronicled by Randy Shilts in his book And the Band Played On. Susan Sontag’s book about [this disease] and Its Metaphors argues that its victims had been turned into symbols.
This book by Laud Humphreys also had an important impact on the LGBT community: namely, convincing the police that the titular sexual activities in public bathrooms were “victimless crimes.”
This man pioneered the study of LGBT issues with his namesake reports, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female. He names a scale for measuring sexual orientation.
AIDS [or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; or Human Immunodeficiency Virus; or HIV]
Tearoom Trade: Impersonal Sex in Public Places
Alfred Kinsey &lt;MT, Social Science (Sociology)&gt;
This concept can be “frictional” when people quit jobs in order to find better ones or “structural” when it comes about through technological advances. For 10 points each:
Name this metric that is calculated as the number of jobless people divided by the whole labor force.
This economist was best known for the report Social Insurance and Allied Services. His namesake diagram shows the relationship between job vacancies and unemployment rate.
If this rate increases, the Beveridge curve will shift outward from the origin. It measures the number of people working or in search of work.
unemployment
William Beveridge
labor force participation rate &lt;AJ, Social Science (Economics)&gt;
This construct is often divided into the five traits of openness, conscientiousness, neuroticism, agreeableness, and extraversion. For 10 points each:
Many psychometric tests, including the Myers–Briggs, attempt to measure this concept.
This psychologist identified the aforementioned “Big Five” personality traits and created the commonly-used Sixteen Personality Factor Questionnaire.
This personality test contains 32 picture cards with evocative but ambiguous images. In this test, the subject is asked to make up a story about the figures in the picture.
personality
Raymond Cattell
Thematic Apperception Test [or TAT; or picture interpretation technique] &lt;JC, Social Science (Psychology)&gt;
The “outside” or “indirect” form of this action is when interest groups encourage the citizens to push politicians to make change. For 10 points each:
Name this action in which interest groups hire lawyers and specialists to argue for legislation. It is seen as morally dubious because of its ability to twist laws to suit the purposes of a select few.
Some laws regarding this system require a one-year cool down period. This is term for the system in which government officials become lobbyists, and vice versa.
This problem can occur as a result of representatives acting in their own best interest. It can be the result of having a larger amount of information about a situation in their hands, when compared to the interest group.
lobbying
revolving door
principal–agent problem [or agency dilemma; or agency problem] &lt;AJ, Social Science (Political Science)&gt;
Egocentric bias can result in quarantine failures when using this ability. For 10 points each:
Name this ability, also called mindreading, that allows us to implicitly and explicitly attribute beliefs, emotions, and other mental states to others that are different from our own.
One type of this task often used to test development of theory of mind asks participants to say where a character thinks an object is after leaving it somewhere even though the participant saw someone else move it. More generally, these tasks involve attributing a mental state to someone that differs from reality.
People with this condition fail elicited response false belief tasks but do pass spontaneous response tests, suggesting that there may be more than just a single module responsible for theory of mind. These disorders include Asperger’s syndrome.
theory of mind [or mentalizing; prompt on folk psychology]
false belief task [accept Sally–Anne task]
autism spectrum disorder &lt;MT, Social Science (Psychology)&gt;
Subjects in a 1983 study were told about Linda, a woman who participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations and majored in philosophy, and thought that it was more likely that she was a <em>feminist</em> bank teller than just a bank teller. For 10 points each:
That study demonstrated this type of fallacy in which people think that specific conditions are more likely than a more general condition.
Conjunction fallacies are a problem associated with this general method of problem solving. Specific examples of these methods include representativeness and availability.
Heuristics can result in this phenomenon when they deviate from logic. This phenomenon occurs when people seek out and are more likely to believe information that fits with what they already believe.
conjunction fallacy
heuristics
confirmation bias [prompt on bias] &lt;MT, Social Science (Psychology)&gt;
This man wrote a study of Kikuyu society titled <em>Facing Mount Kenya</em> that supported female genital mutilation. For 10 points each:
Name this activist and politician. He was the first president of Kenya.
Kenyatta was influenced by the functionalism of this man, whom he studied under at the London School of Economics. This author of Crime and Custom in Savage Society wrote the foreword to Facing Mount Kenya.
This other student of Malinowski, who defined himself as both rationalist and functionalist, wrote introductions to the works of Lévi-Strauss. He criticized his contemporaries’ overgeneralizations in “Rethinking Anthropology.”
Jomo Kenyatta
Bronislaw Malinowski
Edmund Leach &lt;MT, Social Science (Anthropology)&gt;
A paper that founded a sub-discipline of this field states that this field has moved from “noble innocence” to “critical self-consciousness” and declares that it needs to be “anthropology or… nothing.” For 10 points each:
Name this discipline that often excavates and studies artifacts from ancient cultures.
This aforementioned theory, also called New Archaeology, is framed upon cultural evolutionism and emphasizes the scientific method. It is rooted in Wiley and Phillips’ Method and Theory in American Archaeology.
This American archaeologist, a proponent of processual archaeology, is known for incorporating middle range theory into the field.
archaeology [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, New Archaeology or processual archaeology]
processual archaeology
Lewis Binford &lt;AP, Social Science (Archaeology)&gt;
Some causes of this condition include having access to natural resources that are restricted to competitors or having highly skilled labor. For 10 points each:
Name this condition in which a company is able to outperform its rivals by providing goods of equal value for a lower price.
This Harvard Business School professor created a five-component model for determining the intensity of competition in an industry. Its components include threat of new entrants and bargaining power of suppliers.
Another of Porter’s five forces refers to the threat posed by these things. An effect named for these types of goods is often contrasted with the income effect.
competitive advantage
David Porter [accept Porter’s five forces analysis]
substitutes [or substitute goods; accept substitution effect] &lt;AJ, Social Science (Economics)&gt;
This period is hypothesized to be important in developing the ego and recognizing an adult as “other.” For 10 points each:
Name this psychoanalytic period, named after the time at which infants develop apperception, or the ability to perceive themselves as an object that can be viewed externally.
This postmodern psychoanalyst and author of Écrits (“ay-KREE”) posited the “mirror stage” and divided world orders into the imaginary, the symbolic, and the real.
Lacan proclaimed a “return to” this father of psychoanalysis and analyzed his concept of the ego.
“mirror stage” [or “stade du miroir”]
Jacques Lacan
Sigmund Freud &lt;JC, Social Science (Psychology)&gt;
According to this book, a sense of maleness comes at a great cost for boys because it requires separating themselves from a parent and repressing tenderness at an early age. For 10 points each:
Name this book by Nancy Chodorow that examines how mothers raise their children. It also explores how women come to view themselves as heterosexual and how masculine dominance might be changed.
The processes described in The Reproduction of Mothering contribute to the develop of these kind of norms. This concept is often contrasted with sex.
It’s not toxic masculinity, but this type of masculinity theorized by R. W. Connell legitimizes the dominant position of men and the subordinate position of women in society.
The Reproduction of Mothering
gender
hegemonic masculinity &lt;MT, Social Science (Sociology)&gt;
One of Miguel Covarrubias’s illustrations for this book depicts its author lying naked on a snakeskin for three days in an attempt to get initiated into a local religion. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of African-American folklore that examines New Orleans and Eatonville stories, including that of a slave scared by a frog while fetching water.
This author of Mules and Men also wrote Tell My Horse: Voodoo and Life in Haiti and Jamaica. She was buried in a grave that remained unmarked until Alice Walker found it in 1973.
Zora Neale Hurston was a student of this “father of American anthropology,” a professor at Columbia University who wrote The Mind of Primitive Man.
Mules and Men
Zora Neale Hurston
Franz Boas &lt;MT, Social Science (Anthropology)&gt;
This philosopher qualifies his notion of transcendentalism with the word “weak,” a stance critiqued by Karl-Otto Apel, with whom this philosopher developed a theory of discourse ethics. For 10 points each:
Name this critical theorist who wrote Theory of Communicative Action.
In the framework of Habermas, communicative and/or emancipative rationality are contrasted with this sort of rationality, which refers to a strategic use of rationality for an end, as in science. Max Horkheimer linked the triumph of this kind of rationality to the triumph of the bureaucratic state.
The concept of “instrumental rationality” was first elucidated by this German philosopher and sociologist, who contrasted it with “value rationality.” He wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
Jürgen Habermas
instrumental rationality [or instrumental reason; accept Critique of Instrumental Reason]
Max Weber &lt;Thought, WA&gt;
The official sanctioning of this term was intended to reduce stigmatization. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word term. In 2013, the APA recognized it as the proper academic term for the distress experienced by an individual on account of a certain characteristic that they are assigned at birth.
Common side effects of gender dysphoria include this disorder, which is commonly treated with selective reuptake inhibitors that increase the patient’s dopamine levels.
In an infamous experiment, a Canadian boy with this surname was given gender reassignment surgery after a botched circumcision mutilated his penis, while his twin brother of the same surname grew up as a cis male; one of the brothers later committed suicide, while the other died of an antidepressant overdose.
gender dysphoria [prompt on partial answer; prompt on GD; do not accept or prompt on “gender identity disorder,” which is the now-deprecated term]
clinical depression [or major depression disorder]
Reimer [accept David Reimer or Bruce Reimer or Brian Reimer] &lt;Social Science: Psychology, WA&gt;
Zompist.com is a hub for this activity, which is represented by a purple flag whose foreground depicts a black tower in front of a rising yellow sun. For 10 points each:
Name this activity performed by Mark Rosenfelder and David J. Peterson. Popular products of this activity include Ithkuil (“ith-KOO-eel”) and Volapük (“VOH-lah-POOK”).
By far the most widely-spoken constructed language is this creation of L. L. Zamenhof. Though designed for international use, most of its vocabulary is based on Romance, Germanic, and Slavic languages.
Esperanto, Klingon, and Elvish languages are coded by three letters in the 639 series of this standards body that maintains quality control between countries. Many companies conform to its 9001 series of quality management.
language construction [or conlanging; or language invention; or language creation; or equivalents]
Esperanto [or lingvo internacia]
ISO [or ISO 639; or ISO 9001:2015; or International Organization for Standardization; or Organisation internationale de normalisation; or Mezhdunarodnaya organizatsiya po standartizatsii] &lt;Other/Misc Academic, KL&gt;
Answer the following about the syntax of the sentence “I saw the concert that had the awesome Tupac hologram,” for 10 points each.
The phrase “that had the awesome Tupac hologram” is an example of this type of clause that cannot stand alone in a sentence, since it requires the presence of additional information, such as a subject.
The verb “saw” in the sentence has two “roles” denoted by this Greek letter since it takes two arguments: the subject “I” and the object “the concert.” In the IPA, this symbol denotes a [read slowly] voiceless dental fricative.
The related question “What did I see the concert that had?” sounds ungrammatical because “the awesome Tupac hologram” is one of these structures from which wh-words (“W-H-words”) like “what” cannot be extracted.
dependent clause [or subordinate clause; or relative clause; or adjectival clause; prompt on sentence fragment]
theta [accept theta role]
island [or complex DP island] &lt;Social Science: Linguistics, KL&gt;
In cooperation with the CIA’s project MKUltra, British psychiatrist William Sargant attempted to brainwash patients by administering these things and then using insulin to induce a coma. For 10 points each:
Identify these things that were administered by experimental subjects to “learners” in a study that Stanley Milgram conducted at Yale.
This one-time president of each of the American, Canadian, and World Psychiatric Associations used shock therapy as part of the three-stage brainwashing treatment that he developed with MKUltra. Naomi Klein’s The Shock Doctrine draws a comparison between this man’s treatments and economic shock therapy.
MKUltra also notoriously experimented with this drug on patients, such as by giving it to unsuspecting men in brothels in the appropriately-named Operation Midnight Climax.
electric shocks
Ewen Cameron [or Donald Ewen Cameron]
LSD [or lysergic acid diethylamide] &lt;Social Science: Psychology, WA&gt;
A partisan phenomenon described by this word is measured by such indices as those developed by Michael Taylor and V. M. Herman in 1971 and Federal Reserve economist Marina Azzimonti in 2013. For 10 points each:
Give this word that can describe a social phenomenon exacerbated by partisanship, in which groups collectively take more extreme positions and attitudes than members’ inclinations.
Some analysts have partly attributed the recent increase in polarization in US politics to this landmark 2010 Supreme Court decision that prohibited the restriction of independent political expenditures.
Surveys from this nonprofit consistently find that Americans have become more partisan on all issues. This nonprofit, which bills itself as a “fact tank” and source of free data, is a subsidiary of a set of “Charitable Trusts” founded by a namesake Sunoco executive in the 1950s.
polarization [accept word forms such as polarized; accept political polarization or attitude polarization or group polarization]
Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission
Pew Research Center [prompt on Pew or other partial answers by asking “what is the full name of the nonprofit?”] &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
The epistemology influenced by this movement includes such concepts as “situated knowledges.” For 10 points each:
Name this intellectual movement whose various “waves” of intellectual leaders in the 20th century have included Betty Friedan and Judith Butler.
This essay by Martha Nussbaum attacks academics who proffer a feminism which says “that there is little room for large-scale social change,” such as Judith Butler, whom it notes won a “Bad Writing Contest” for her prose.
“The Professor of Parody” notes that a feminist with this surname parodied Butler-like feminists in her novel Mercy, and also fought for stricter pornography laws with Catherine MacKinnon. Another thinker with this surname wrote Taking Rights Seriously.
feminism [accept feminist epistemology or third-wave feminism]
“The Professor of Parody”
Dworkin [accept Andrea Dworkin or Ronald Dworkin] &lt;Thought, WA&gt;
Robert Putnam’s book <em>Our Kids</em> explains how changes in this phenomenon’s patterns are rooted in social capital, and argues that it has increased in recent generations by assortative mating trends. For 10 points each:
Identify this socioeconomic phenomenon that Joseph Stiglitz wrote about the “price of.” A French philosopher attributed the “origin” of this concept to the first man who fenced off a piece of land and claimed “this is mine.”
Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson pointed the finger at Washington politics for rising inequality in a book whose title includes this three-word phrase. A similar phenomenon of runaway salaries was described in a book by Robert Frank and Philip Cook titled for a “society” described by this phrase.
Hacker and Pierson downplayed the influence of this phenomenon as a contributor to inequality. Stiglitz wrote about the “discontents” of this phenomenon, which is the increasing internationalization of world economies.
inequality [accept social or economic inequality; accept The Price of Inequality; do not accept or prompt on “equality”]
winner-take-all [accept Winner-Take-All Politics or The Winner-Take-All Society]
globalization [accept Globalization and its Discontents] &lt;Social Science: PoliSci, WA&gt;
This work notes that, throughout the 19th century, members of its title group have sought to define a role for themselves other than “the angel” of the home. For 10 points each:
Name this 1898 treatise which argues that humans are set apart not by a “sex-energy,” but by a “race-energy” that drives them to produce, and presents a critique of the contemporary “sex-relation.” Its author famously suffered a bout of postpartum psychosis.
Charlotte Gilman’s presentation of women as objects of exchange was influenced by this book, which presents an evolutionary approach to economics. This book argues that many purchases are motivated by the goal of achieving “invidious distinction.”
This other 19th-century thinker wrote on the political economy of female subjugation with his wife Harriet Taylor in The Subjection of Women, though he’s better known for writing On Liberty.
Women and Economics
The Theory of the Leisure Class (by Thorstein Veblen)
John Stuart Mill &lt;Social Science: Sociology, WA&gt;
The Cannon–Bard theory of these phenomena explains their expression as a result of the actions of the thalamic regions of the brain. For 10 points each:
Identify these psychological phenomena that may include happiness and sadness.
In their two-factor theory, Schachter and Singer explain emotions in terms of cognitive labeling and misattribution of this phenomenon of heightened reaction to stimuli. Dutton and Aron explored that misattribution of this phenomenon in their “bridge” study.
In the bridge study, a male confederate administered this projective test to assess the participant’s emotional responses. This test was developed by Henry Murray and Christiana Morgan.
emotions
arousal
thematic apperception test [or TAT] &lt;Social Science: Psychology, WA&gt;
This two-word term, which often lends its name to the problem of induction, refers to a saying that was used in Early Modern London to refer to an impossibility. For 10 points each:
Give this term that was applied to unpredicted rare events in a 2007 book of the same title by Nassim Taleb.
To shield societies from black swans, Taleb proposes to increase their level of this property through decentralization. Taleb’s 2012 book of the same title states that systems with this property grow stronger with chaos or disorder.
The US banking system is the opposite of antifragile, according to Taleb, in part because of the phenomenon known by this four-word name. This term originated in the Great Recession to refer to financial organizations so vital that they had to be bailed out to avoid system collapse.
black swans [accept The Black Swan]
antifragile [or word forms like antifragility; accept Antifragile; do not accept or prompt on loose synonyms such as “not fragile”]
too big to fail &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
Answer the following related to <em>Designing Social Inquiry</em>, a widely cited methodological guide to social science research, for 10 points each.
The book’s major thesis is that a “logic of inference” is shared by quantitative research and research described by this other adjective, which is often contrasted with quantitative.
One of the book’s authors, Robert Keohane, is best known for his contributions to this field of social science. The constructivist approach in this field of study was pioneered by Alexander Wendt.
Another of the book’s authors is Sidney Verba, who inaugurated the field of political culture by co-writing the study Civic Culture with this political scientist. With Walter Lippmann, this thinker names a “consensus” which states that public opinion is volatile and largely irrelevant to policy making.
qualitative [or qualitative research]
international relations theory [or IR theory]
Gabriel Almond [accept Almond–Lippmann consensus] &lt;Social Science: PoliSci, WA&gt;
This adjective describes long-term market trends that move in a singular direction over a long period of time, in contrast with cyclical markets. For 10 points each:
Give this adjective that also names a concept coined by Alvin Hansen during the Great Depression and revived in recent years by Larry Summers, which states there may be fundamental limits on the economy that prevent it from growing quickly or reaching full employment.
Secular markets that consistently trend positively, like any markets that trend positively, are named after this animal. A famous statue of this animal is found on Wall Street.
Both negative secular trends and secular stagnation are often described as consequences of this two-word concept coined by John Maynard Keynes to refer to irrational, emotional forces that drive economic trends.
secular [accept secular trend or secular stagnation]
bulls [accept bull market]
animal spirits &lt;Social Science: Economics, WA&gt;
This principle in common law prevents a person from asserting something contrary to the implied meaning of their previous actions. For 10 points each:
Identify this judicial device, which is one reason that large companies frequently sue over minor infringements of intellectual property. The 2002 SCOTUS case Festo Corp examined this doctrine’s “prosecution history” variety.
Estoppel is sometimes used as a defense against lawsuits over this type of intellectual property, which protects original works of authorship fixed in a tangible medium of expression.
Another defense against copyright infringement suits is this doctrine, whose four elements include the purpose of the work, amount of material copied, and effect of the copying on the market of the original work. It is used to protect citations in academic works.
estoppel
copyright
fair use &lt;Other/Misc Academic, BB&gt;
This author’s 2018 book <em>Bullshit Jobs</em> analyzes work that fosters a “simmering resentment” against people “whose work has clear and undeniable social value.” For 10 points each:
Name this activist and author of Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology. This author’s best-known book illustrates how the title concept originated in Sumer and replaced “human economies” over 5,000 years.
Graeber calls interactions between people in which a return is not expected an “everyday” form of this system. In Bullshit Jobs, Graeber jokes that capitalism was supposed to eliminate bullshit jobs, unlike this economic system of the USSR.
Graeber studied under this anthropologist and anti-Vietnam War protest leader, with whom he collaborated on the monograph “On Kings.” This thinker coined the term “primitive communism” in Stone Age Economics.
David Graeber (The book is Debt: The First 5,000 Years.)
communism [accept everyday communism]
Marshall Sahlins &lt;Social Science: Anthropology, EL&gt;
Anti-psychiatry activists often compare this book to the medieval witch-hunting treatise <em>Malleus Maleficarum</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this book published by the American Psychological Association that provides a standard list of symptoms for mental disorders.
This 1961 book by Thomas Szasz (“soss”) criticizes the attempts to use tools such as the DSM to diagnose mental disorders in a way analogous to medicine, and compares psychiatry to alchemy and astrology.
Followers of this French psychotherapist have also expressed opposition to the DSM, preferring to base their methods on a “return to Freud.” This theorizer of the “mirror stage” pioneered the use of variable-length sessions.
DSM [or Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; accept DSM-5]
The Myth of Mental Illness
Jacques Lacan &lt;Social Science: Psychology, WA&gt;
A so-called “time” example of these things cannot be withdrawn throughout its term to maturity. For 10 points each:
Give this term for sums of money placed in a bank. These things are insured by the FDIC in order to prevent the devastating effects of bank runs.
This term refers to deposits denominated in US currency that are held outside of the US and thus not subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. Despite their name, many of these deposits are held in Caribbean tax havens.
Banks often borrow eurodollars from each other to shore up their reserve requirements overnight; another common method of doing so is borrowing in onshore dollars at the rate of interest known by this name.
bank deposits [accept time deposits]
eurodollars [do not accept or prompt on “Euro” or “dollars”]
federal funds rate [accept federal funds effective rate or discount rate; prompt on bank rate] &lt;Social Science: Economics, WA&gt;
The adjectival form of this word was used to describe a form of ethnography that focuses on “textually-mediated social organization,” as defined by Dorothy Smith. For 10 points each:
Identify these things that are commonly divided into “total” and “social” examples in anthropological studies, using terms introduced in sociology by Erving Goffman.
This approach to anthropology pioneered by Claude Lévi-Strauss argues that social institutions reflect deep elements common across human societies.
Mary Douglas’s book How Institutions Think applies a structuralist approach to argue that institutions “confer” this concept of self-definition. In psychology, Erik Erikson said that it could experience a “crisis.”
institutions [accept institutional ethnography or total/social institutions]
structuralism [or structuralist anthropology; do not accept or prompt on “post-structuralism”]
identity [accept identity crisis] &lt;Social Science: Anthropology, WA&gt;
Most of Derek Bok’s work concerns the industry dominated by these places, including his 2007 book that called these places “underachieving.” For 10 points each:
Identify these places that Thorstein Veblen said were dominated by business interests in America. Among the findings of the report A Nation at Risk was that Americans were being inadequately prepared for these places.
Bok analyzed the social responsibilities of the university in a work titled “Beyond” this structure. This two-word metaphor is named for a precious material that elephants are hunted for.
A long-time UCLA scholar with this surname wrote the international study The Higher Education System, which applied Erving Goffman’s concept of “cooling out” to higher education. This is also the first name of the author of The Uses of the University.
universities [or colleges; accept Our Underachieving Colleges; prompt on institutions of higher learning or schools]
ivory tower [accept Beyond the Ivory Tower]
Clark [accept Burton Clark or Clark Kerr] &lt;Social Science: Other, WA&gt;
When this situation occurs in a labor market, the quantity of labor purchased will be determined by the intersection of the marginal cost and marginal revenue product curves, but the wage value will be depressed. For 10 points each:
Identify this general type of market situation. Examples of this situation may include Walmart being the only employer in a small town, or a government mandating that all grain be sold through a wheat board.
A labor market monopsony may be counteracted by workers forming one of these organizations, which could then collectively bargain the wage up to equal the monopsonist’s marginal revenue product.
The Oxford English Dictionary credits the coining of the term “monopsony” to this economist’s book The Economics of Imperfect Competition. This woman extended Keynesian (“KANE-zee-in”) theory to apply to long-run situations in her book The Accumulation of Capital.
monopsony [do not accept or prompt on “monopoly”]
labor unions [or trade unions]
Joan Robinson &lt;Social Science: Economics, WA&gt;
This work begins with a discussion of the primal “fear of being touched”, and it later describes how a small group known as a “crystal” facilitates the actions of its first title entity. For 10 points each,
Name this work by Elias Canetti describing the dynamics of the first of its two title entities.
Within Crowds and Power, Canetti describes crowds with various symbols like fire, the sea, rivers, and one of these natural entities. One of these natural entities, “of symbols” also titles the best-known work by Victor Turner.
For individuals in a crowd, this social “effect” describes the decreased likelihood that individuals will help a person in need as the number of individuals in the crowd increases. The murder of Kitty Genovese is the classic example of this effect.
Crowds and Power
forest
Bystander effect
A man claims that the white spots he sees in this woman’s throat recall the diphtheria contracted by her friend, the grave illness of his eldest daughter, and using cocaine to treat his swelling nose. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who is administered trimethylamine by Otto, which reminds a man of a conversation with a friend who thought he found trimethylamine in one of the products of sexual metabolism.
“Irma’s Injection” was described by this psychologist who wrote The Interpretation of Dreams and posited the existence of the Oedipus complex.
This two-word term, analyzed in the opening of Civilization and its Discontents, was suggested by Romain Rolland in a letter to Freud and describes a “sensation of eternity” that is the source of religious sentiments.
Irma
Sigmund Freud
oceanic feeling
One definition of this term is the gain that consumers get by buying goods at a price lower than the price they were willing to pay. For 10 points each:
Name this term also contrasted with deficit to mean a situation when a government brings in more revenue than its expenses.
A government can have this type of surplus in which its revenues exceed its expenses excluding debt servicing costs. A government in this kind of situation is in a position to pay down its debt.
Alfred Marshall, who established the concept of economic surplus, compared it to this concept in a namesake 1893 work. This concept, which is different from profit, is compensation for a factor of production, such as land, in excess of costs.
surplus [accept economic surplus, or consumer surplus or Marshallian surplus]
primary surplus
rent
This work’s introduction begins with the question “Who now reads Spencer?”. For 10 points each,
Name this work of sociology that begins by discussing its author’s “positivistic theory of action” before  discussing the various theories of Marshall, Pareto, and Durkheim.
That work’s author, Talcott Parsons, is also widely-regarded in the field of sociology for his translations of this German thinker into English. This thinker’s works include “Politics as a Vocation” and “The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism”.
Talcott Parsons was also very influential on the works of this other thinker. This sociologist and author of Asylums developed a “dramaturgical” model of social interactions in his best-known work.
The Structure of Social Action [by Talcott Parsons]
Max Weber
Erving Goffman
James Frazer identifies “Homeopathic” and “Contagious” forms of this concept as subsets of its “Sympathetic” form since it assumes that things act on each other from a distance through a “secret sympathy.” For 10 points each:
Name this concept that was studied by a different anthropologist who transcribed the utterances used by those who practice this concept in a book titled for coral gardens and it.
Coral Gardens and Their Magic was written by this Polish anthropologist, who analyzed the Kula ring in a different book.
Malinowski analyzed these spirits of the dead in Trobriand society, noting that after exiting the body they go to a small island called Tuma and make an annual visit during an event called the milamala.
magic
Bronislaw Malinowski
baloma
Edward Sutherland and Donald Cressey published an authoritative text on this discipline in 1934. For 10 points each:
Name this academic discipline that analyzes topics like robbery and theft.
This Italian philosopher is widely regarded as one of the founders of criminology as an academic discipline for his discussion of topics like torture in the work, On Crimes and Punishments.
This other American sociologist and author of Social Theory and Social Structure developed the “strain theory” of criminology. He also coined the term “self-fulfilling prophecy”.
criminology [prompt on “penology”]
Cesare Beccaria
Robert Merton
This thinker’s theory of “sonant coefficients” would be proven more than fifty years after its proposal due to the discovery of various Hittite texts. For 10 points each,
Name this Swiss linguist, the father of semiotics and the author of the “Course in General Linguistics”.
Saussure introduced two terms to distinguish between the abstract, systematic conventions of language and the everyday usage of speech. Name either of those two terms.
Saussure’s theory of “sonant coefficients” as well as his theory of laryngeals were based on the re-construction of this early language. Grimm’s law also describes the inheritance of stop consonants from this early language.
Ferdinand de Saussure
langue and parole [accept either]
Proto-Indo-European [or PIE]
One work of this type by Richard Lee includes a section on “Eating Christmas in the Kalahari”. For 10 points each,
Name this type of anthropological work which, typically following fieldwork, attempts to extensively and systematically describe a culture of society.
This early anthropologist was a proponent of the theory that anthropologists should be fully engrossed in the culture they are studying, which can be seen in his Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
This documentary by Robert Flaherty is a classic example of the “salvage” type of ethnography. Various scenes in this film include a walrus hunt, one at a trading post, and one of the central character constructing an igloo.
ethnography [accept specific types like “salvage ethnography”]
Bronislaw Malinowski
Nanook of the North
This term was introduced in the book <em>Pedagogy of the Oppressed</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this term coined by Paulo Freire for the traditional education system that views the students as passive containers, instead of critical thinkers.
Freire's Pedagogy of the Oppressed was heavily influenced by this 1961 book by Frantz Fanon that examines the dehumanizing effects of colonization.
Freire was also influenced by this German author of Das Kapital, who analyzed the class struggle inherent in society.
banking education [or the transmission model]
The Wretched of the Earth [or Les Damnes de la Terre]
Karl Marx &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This anthropologist wrote a study of voodoo titled <em>Tell My Horse</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist who also collected numerous tales of folklore in a 1935 text that was compiled after trips to Eatonville and Polk County, Florida, as well as New Orleans.
Hurston studied under this German-American professor at Columbia University who wrote the book The Mind of Primitive Man and taught many other anthropologists.
Boas studied the indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest and documented this practice, a gift-giving feast held on special occasions. Seen as wasteful by Europeans, it was banned in Canada and the US for many years.
Zora Neale Hurston
Franz Boas
potlatch &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Franz Bopp reconstructed a model of this paradigm by observing Sanskrit, Persian, Greek, Latin, and Germanic suffixes. For 10 points each:
Name this morphological process, the inflection or variation of verbs to indicate features like tense, number, or person. Latin has four of these verb paradigms; "amō, amās, amat" is from the "first" one.
In the sentence "Heidi bopped herself on the head with a zucchini," "Heidi" and "herself" must refer to the same person, illustrating this syntactic phenomenon whose domain constrains the use of pronouns and anaphors. In the 1980s, Noam Chomsky devised its Principles A, B, and C in a theory of government and this feature.
Both stop consonants in the English word "bop" share all distinctive features except for voicing; that means they have this place of articulation and thus are produced using the same two parts of the mouth as the sound m.
conjugation
binding [or government and binding; accept word forms like bound] (That example sentence is from Carnie's introductory book on syntax.)
bilabial [prompt on labial; prompt on lips; do not accept "labiodental"] &lt;Lifshitz&gt;
The backwardness model of this phenomenon argues that it is more likely to occur in countries that are relatively further behind. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that is also the subject of Walt Rostow's take-off model. It is defined as the expansion of the value of an economy over time.
This exogenous growth model was developed in the 1950s. It begins by constructing a Cobb–Douglas production function for an economy whose inputs are labor and capital.
The Mankiw (MAN-kyoo)–Romer–Weil adjustment to the Solow model adds this element, symbolized H, to the aggregate production function. Much like the other inputs, it is calculated as a function of time.
economic growth
Solow–Swan model
human capital [do not accept or prompt on "capital"] &lt;Droge&gt;
Answer the following about the work of Swedish philosopher Nick Bostrom, for 10 points each.
Bostrom introduced the concept of these things in a namesake paper, where he described them as "global, terminal" risks. He argued that moral actions ought to maximize the probability that these risks do not happen.
Bostrom argues that the development of a superintelligent one of these could be an existential risk. Alan Turing names a "test" for determining whether these things are equivalent to humans.
Bostrom's trilemma argues that unless most human civilizations fail to reach a post-human level, it is likely that our universe is one of these things. Arguments that the universe is one of these things include physical evidence that the universe has a minimum resolution, or that time is divided into discrete blocks.
existential risks [prompt on human extinction or nuclear war or logically equivalent answers implying apocalyptic scenarios]
artificial intelligence [or AI; accept equivalents like computers, machines, robots, computer programs, etc.]
simulation [or logical equivalents] &lt;Thompson&gt;
Many languages use means other than prefixing and suffixing to modify words. For 10 points each:
In this morphological process common in Asian and Native American languages, part or all of a word is repeated to express a grammatical function, such as plurality or intensity.
In Celtic languages like Irish, word-initial consonants undergo this process of "weakening" in many grammatical contexts. In Irish orthography, the letter "h" is added after the consonant undergoing this phonological process, which is contrasted with fortition.
This language family uses three-consonant roots and often inflects them by inserting vowels in various places in the root. This language family includes Amharic, Arabic, and Hebrew.
reduplication [do not accept or prompt on "duplication"]
lenition [accept séimhiú (shay-view)]
Semitic [prompt on Afro-Asiatic] &lt;Thompson&gt;
The supply of this entity is governed by central banks, which can cause inflation by producing more of it. For 10 points each:
Name this entity whose rate of movement between different parties in an economy is called its velocity.
This two-word hyphenated term denotes the system of banking whereby financial institutions are required to only hold a specified percentage of deposits as currency, allowing banks to increase the money supply.
Two answers required. An easy way to estimate the money multiplier is by taking broad money over base money, which is represented by taking the ratio of these two concepts.
money
fractional-reserve banking
M2 AND M0 (M-zero) [or M2 to M0; accept in either order] &lt;Droge&gt;
One of these things that was popular until the mid-20th century was produced by Alfred Marshall in 1890. For 10 points each:
Name these things, two popular American examples of which were produced by Lorie Tarshis and Paul Samuelson after World War II.
A paradox discussed in Samuelson's textbook Economics states that individuals performing this action may lead to lower aggregate demand and thus less of this action on a national level.
The fifth book of Alfred Marshall's Principles of Economics discusses formal representations of these two contrasting economic concepts. The quantities specified by these two concepts will balance at the market clearing price.
economics textbooks [prompt on partial answers]
saving [or paradox of saving; or paradox of thrift]
supply AND demand [accept in either order] &lt;Droge&gt;
Name these things about Ronald Coase (koce), for 10 points each.
Coase's paper "The Problem of Social Cost" claimed that stringent property rights could address these economic issues. These issues exist when an agent's actions impact other people, and they can be either positive or negative.
Coase burst onto the economic scene with his paper "The Nature of the Firm," in which he suggested that firms arise to minimize these costs that are incurred by participating in a market or exchange.
According to Coase, lighthouses were not actually public goods, but fall into this other category of goods that are artificially scarce because they are excludable but non-rivalrous.
externalities [or externality]
transaction costs
club goods &lt;Droge&gt;
In an oligopoly, there are few sellers who dominate a given market. For 10 points each:
In an oligopoly, firms are able to set these levels, rather than having to take them as given if there were perfect competition. These levels are displayed on the opposite axis as quantity in standard economic graphs.
The Cournot model of oligopolies was inspired by a spring water market in which this many companies were competing. Most oligopoly theory is introduced by scenarios in which this many firms are competing.
The defining feature of Stackelberg competition, unlike in Cournot competition, is that there is a substantial advantage generated for this firm.
prices
two [or duopoly]
first mover [or leader] &lt;Droge&gt;
Name these things about economist Daron Acemoğlu (DAH-roan AH-jem-OH-loo). For 10 points each:
Acemoğlu's book Why Nations Fail compares inclusive institutions with oppressive institutions described by this term, such as North Korea.
Acemoğlu is currently employed by this university. Robert Solow and Paul Samuelson were two longtime faculty members at this university.
Acemoğlu's breakout paper claimed that countries that engaged in this practice only developed locations where diseases were relatively rare. Thus, European countries that engaged in this practice made few infrastructural developments in Central Africa.
extractive
MIT [or Massachusetts Institute of Technology]
colonialism [prompt on imperialism] &lt;Droge&gt;
This book discusses the interruption of a time of "blissful uterine life." For 10 points each:
Name this 1924 book by an Austrian psychoanalyst. It claims that male homosexuality is caused by men abhorring the female genitals.
This psychologist wrote Inhibitions, Symptoms, and Anxiety in response to Otto Rank's The Trauma of Birth. He wrote The Interpretation of Dreams.
Carl Rogers claimed to be "infected with Rankian ideas," which he said helped him pioneer this type of psychotherapy that requires the therapist to give the patient unconditional positive regard.
The Trauma of Birth [or Das Trauma der Geburt]
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Freud]
client-centered therapy [or person-centered therapy; or PCT; or person-centered psychotherapy; or person-centered counseling; prompt on Rogerian psychotherapy] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This book argues that "the ultimate problem of freedom" is the "cheerful robot," who passively accepts his social position. For 10 points each:
Name this book that challenged structural functionalism and defined the title concept as the "vivid awareness of the relationship between experience and the wider society."
C. Wright Mills, the author of The Sociological Imagination, wrote this 1956 book that explores how the dominant leaders of dominant institutions, like the military and industry, make decisions that impact the world.
Mills also wrote a 1951 book with this title. It analyzed the title type of worker, a middle manager or office worker contrasted with the blue-collar employee.
The Sociological Imagination
The Power Elite
White Collar: The American Middle Classes &lt;Cheyne&gt;
One of this author's last books was the pessimistic <em>Dark Age Ahead</em> from 2004. For 10 points each:
Name this author and activist best known for condemning 1950s urban planning and urban renewal projects in the 1961 book The Death and Life of Great American Cities.
Jacobs was a longtime opponent of Robert Moses, an urban planner in this city. She claimed that Greenwich Village here was an example of an ideal urban community.
A famous section of The Death and Life of Great American Cities emphasizes the importance of these things for the safety of the city, spending time poetically analyzing the "ballet" that can be found within these things.
Jane Jacobs [or Jane Butzner]
New York City [or NYC; prompt on Manhattan]
sidewalks [prompt on streets or synonyms] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
The psychologist Susan Clancy wrote a 2005 book explaining why people believe these events to be true, and argued against the accuracy of so-called repressed memories. For 10 points each:
Name these events, the subject of accounts by Betty and Barney Hill, who claimed that one of these events happened to them in New Hampshire.
The reliability of repressed memories has been attacked by psychologists such as Elizabeth Loftus, who has performed studies showing how people frequently claim to remember a fake memory about becoming lost in one of these places as a child.
Repressed memories may occasionally be linked to this mental disorder, which can develop after people are exposed to intense, painful events. Survivors of rape and war may develop this disorder.
alien abductions [accept obvious equivalents]
shopping mall [prompt on store]
PTSD [or posttraumatic stress disorder] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
The theory surrounding these people was attacked in a 1964 book by Bernard Rimland. For 10 points each:
Name these people, noted for their coldness and obsessiveness, who were first described in the theories of Leo Kanner. They were more famously analyzed in books like The Empty Fortress, which compared them to concentration camp guards.
Refrigerator mothers were blamed for their children developing schizophrenia or this disorder characterized by impaired communication and social interaction.
The main theory of refrigerator mothers was pushed by Bruno Bettelheim, who also wrote the book The Uses of Enchantment. That book took a Freudian view of these things, noting that their violence helps children solve problems.
refrigerator mothers [or refrigerator parents; prompt on parents; prompt on mothers; do not accept or prompt on "fathers"]
autism [prompt on Asperger's syndrome]
fairy tales [or folk tales; accept equivalents; prompt on children's stories] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
One scoring method for this test is called R-PAS. For 10 points each:
Identify this test created by a Swiss psychologist in 1921 that involves having people state their perceptions of inkblots.
The iconic first inkblot in the original Rorschach test is meant to be "easily" interpreted, and most people perceive it as a bat or this other animal.
The standard method of interpreting the Rorschach test, once known as the RCS, is now usually named for this American psychologist, who fleshed out the system in the 1960s.
Rorschach test
butterfly [or moth]
John Exner &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This movement's motto was "Strength through discipline, strength through community, strength through action, strength through pride." For 10 points each:
Name this fictional movement created by Ron Jones at a Palo Alto high school in 1967 as a way of demonstrating the appeal of fascism.
The Third Wave experiment is similar to a 1971 experiment by Philip Zimbardo that used college students to simulate a prison at this West Coast university.
This delayed gratification experiment at Stanford featured children who were asked to wait to eat a certain item with the promise of more rewards to come.
The Third Wave [prompt on Wave]
Stanford University [or Leland Stanford Junior University]
Stanford marshmallow experiment &lt;Cheyne&gt;
Answer the following about recent scholarship concerning prodigies, for 10 points each.
Thorsten Fehr's experiment with a mathematical calculation prodigy found that his ability was not related to innate structural differences in the brain, but to this faculty in which the brain undergoes changes throughout one's life due to increased synaptic connections.
Fehr and others have conducted research on prodigies using this procedural technique. It measures brain activity by detecting blood flow in different regions.
Prodigies are distinct from these types of people, whose extreme activities come at a developmental cost. A notable example of these people is Kim Peek, who was fictionalized in Rain Man.
neuroplasticity [or neuronal plasticity; or brain plasticity]
functional magnetic resonance imaging [or fMRI; or functional MRI; prompt on MRI or magnetic resonance imaging]
savants [or autistic savants; or savant syndrome] &lt;Mehr&gt;
In the chapter "Operation Margarine," this book examines advertisements for Astra brand margarine. For 10 points each:
Name this 1957 book of essays. This book includes "The World of Wrestling," which argues that professional wrestling is a staged spectacle that acts out society's concepts of good and evil.
In Mythologies, author Roland Barthes (roh-LAWN BART) analyzes a cover of the magazine Paris Match that depicts a black soldier performing this action, presumably upon seeing the French flag.
Barthes's work is heavily influenced by the theories of semiology developed by this Swiss author of the Course in General Linguistics.
Mythologies
saluting [accept word forms]
Ferdinand Mongin de Saussure &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This anthropologist introduced “group-grid” theory to describe social networks. For 10 points each:
Name this British anthropologist who defined dirt as “matter out of place” and discussed how ideas of dirt and pollution enforce taboos in Purity and Danger.
Douglas was a student of E. E. Evans-Pritchard, who discussed this concept as practiced by the Azande. James Frazier divided it into contagious and sympathetic varieties.
Douglas has since rejected her previous theory that these religious restrictions enforced “symbolic boundaries” rather than protecting dietary health or serving as tests of one’s commitment to God.
Mary Douglas
magic [or witchcraft or sorcery or other equivalents]
kosher laws [or kashrut; do not accept or prompt on “halal”]
Name some aspects of fiscal policy in the US, for 10 points each:
Fiscal policy is pursued through adjustments in either government spending or tax rates, unlike this companion policy, which influences the economy through changing the money supply via interest rate manipulation.
This expression refers to stimulating aggregate demand through expansionary fiscal policy. Trump claimed to have invented this phrase, but it’s been used by Keynesians for 70 years.
This office, the largest within the executive branch and currently led by Mick Mulvaney, is tasked with overseeing the expenditures and regulations of the executive branch.
monetary policy
pump priming [or priming the pump; accept answers that include the words prime and pump]
OMB [or The Office of Management and Budget]
Robert Nozick analyzes this non-epistemological phenomenon in the context of normative and non-normative baselines. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon which Nozick argues is only present when a credible threat changes someone’s behavior by significantly worsening the outcome of their intended action.
Alan Wertheimer distinguishes this situation from coercion due to its capacity to be mutually advantageous. John Roehmer defines this situation as a kind of capitalist social parasitism.
Theorists like Stuart White have argued that this kind of state policy in which all citizens are given a cash transfer is actually exploitative, since this policy would allow people to enjoy gains with no contribution.
coercion
exploitation
universal basic income [or UBI]
Answer the following about the post-World War II world order. For 10 points each:
This conference held in New Hampshire in July, 1944 laid the foundation for the World Bank and the IMF. This conference also established a namesake system of fixed exchange rates ended by the Nixon Shock.
John Ruggie used this word to describe the type of liberalism that emerged after World War II, where states combined free trade with social welfare. Karl Polanyi first used this to describe the dependence of economic markets on social systems.
The most significant international institution created after World War II was this successor to the League of Nations. This organization is based in New York City and has a Security Council.
Bretton Woods conference [or Bretton Woods system]
embedded [accept word forms, like embeddedness]
United Nations
Answer some questions about the theory of structuration, for 10 points each:
Structuration theory was fleshed out in this British sociologist’s The Constitution of Society. He was also the major academic thinker behind the “Third Way” Labour Party framework that characterized Tony Blair’s policy.
Structuration theory’s model of human agency centers on this type of figure, who reflexively analyzes their own conduct. Goffman compared people to members of this profession in his dramaturgical approach.
Structuration theory builds upon the “action frame of reference” of this American sociologist but rejects part of his structural functionalist approach from The Structure of Social Action.
Anthony Giddens [or Baron Giddens]
actors [or acting]
Talcott Parsons
The Davis-Moore Thesis attempted to explain the universality of this phenomenon by positing that the most important and prestigious positions are naturally filled by qualified individuals. For 10 points each:
Name this type of differentiation in a society that produces an unequal hierarchy of socioeconomic roles.
One criticism of the Davis-Moore Thesis lies in the institutionalized barriers to achieving this goal of moving up the strata. When a person moves up the economic ladder, he is said to achieve the “upward” type of this goal.
This Princeton theorist published a response to the Davis-Moore Thesis in an article that argued stratification entrenched the current elite. He was also at the center of the controversy that inspired Roth’s The Human Stain.
social stratification
social mobility [or economic mobility; or upward mobility]
Melvin Marvin Tumin [or Mel Tumin]
Feminist epistemology tends to focus on epistemological agents as connected within a system rather than as atomistic beings. For 10 points each:
Many feminist epistemologists discuss this type of knower. This term refers to knowers in relation to what is known by other knowers.
Feminist empiricism experiences a paradox concerning this concept, due to its implication that androcentricity in the sciences should be made more objective via adopting feminist values.
Feminist philosopher Jose Medina discussed gendered and racial credibility in the context of this novel, in which Mayella Ewell’s testimony is regarded as more credible than Tom Robinson’s.
situated knower
biases [prompt on “prejudice”]
To Kill a Mockingbird
Harold Demsetz’s “Towards a Theory of Property Rights” theorizes that in the absence of these entities, the exchange of property results in an efficient outcome. For 10 points each:
Name these things whose absence is also felt in the Coase Theorem. Coase himself later said his theorem didn’t apply in the real world because you can’t describe a world without these.
The Coase Theorem made its first appearance in “The Problem of Social Cost,” an extremely highly cited article in this university’s law review. This university’s namesake school of economics included Milton Friedman.
This situation occurs when external costs borne by a third party are shifted back to the party that created them. Coase argued that low transaction costs make outside intervention to accomplish this unnecessary.
transaction costs
The University of Chicago [or UChicago; or U of C]
internalize the externalities [accept word forms for both words; accept phrase variations like the externalities are internalized; prompt on “internalize” alone with “internalize what?”]
Several years after his controversial paper with Elisabeth Landes, Richard Posner has claimed strenuously that he was <em>not</em> advocating for a market in this commodity. For 10 points each:
Name this commodity that Posner and Landes argue has excess demand due to the large number of infertile couples. They argue that restrictions on adoption should be eased to promote efficiency in this commodity.
In “The Ethical Limitations of the Market,” this University of Michigan philosopher argues that economic goods have certain qualities that make them suitable for markets.
Drawing from Mauss and Sahlins, Anderson argues that this type of exchange differs from market exchange because it bonds donor and recipient and allows for delays in reciprocity.
babies [or equivalents like infants or children]
Elizabeth Anderson
gift exchange
You just signed up for a psychological experiment! Answer some questions about hallucinogens you might be given, for 10 points each:
In this CIA experiment to study LSD’s powers of persuasion, subjects, including soldiers and mental patients, received LSD. It culminated in a CIA-run brothel drugging its clients in Operation Midnight Climax.
In this experiment by Walter Pahnke, theology students reported experiencing genuine religious experiences after receiving psilocybin.
Psychoactive drugs were given to the inhabitants of one of these places in Concord to see how it affected their recidivism rates. Philip Zimbardo ran a famous Stanford experiment modeling one of these places.
Project MKUltra [prompt on answers like “the CIA mind control program”]
Marsh Chapel experiment [accept Good Friday experiment]
prison [accept jail or synonyms]
Answer some questions about the feminist sex wars, for 10 points each.
This sex-positive gender theorist defined a “Charmed Circle” of sexuality and argues that more expansive views of “good and bad” sex acts that take into account sexual and cultural diversity are needed.
“Sex-negative” feminists campaigned against the ethicality and legality of this type of “obscene” material. Andrea Dworkin and Catharine MacKinnon argued that this material was inherently misogynistic.
Philosophers like Jennifer Hornsby and Ishani Maitra have analyzed how pornography “silences” women using this theory of performative language developed by J.L. Austin.
Gayle Rubin
pornography
speech act theory [prompt on “performative utterances” or “performative speech”]
Terms for this concept can be descriptive or classificatory based on whether or not they use the same term for “mother’s sister” and “mother.” For 10 points each:
Name this anthropological name for the familial relationships between individuals.
This man wrote about kinship in Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family, dividing kinship terminologies into Hawaiian, Sudanese, and Eskimo types, among others.
This anthropologist studied kinship and non-kin groups in black families in the United States, although she is better known for her study of families and ethnic groups in the Dutch Caribbean.
kinship [accept word forms, prompt on descriptive similar answers like family or clan]
Lewis Henry Morgan
Vera Mae Green
Much of this movement responded directly to practices advocated by Lewis Binford and his “New Archaeologists.” For 10 points each:
Name this movement in archaeological theory advanced by scholars like Ian Hodder in response to the charge that earlier archaeologists were too deterministic in their evaluation of how environment shapes human behavior.
Post-processual archaeologists often oppose this school of thought emphasizing direct observation. It shares its name with a stance saying all knowledge is derived from nature, which includes the Vienna Circle’s “logical” form.
One of Lewis Binford’s most famous papers, titled “Archaeology as [this subject],” sought to enlarge archaeology’s scope to analyzing ancient society’s humans, which this field of study would cover.
post-processual archaeology [or the interpretative archaeologies; do NOT accept “post-post-processual archaeology” or “processual archaeology”]
positivism
anthropology
George Miller famously wrote that this could store seven items, plus or minus two. For 10 points each:
Name this process, which is often divided into short-term and long-term versions.
This type of memory is contrasted with procedural memory; it can be divided into semantic memory, the recall of facts, and episodic memory, the recall of events in one’s past.
Baddeley and Hitch divided short-term memory into the central executive, the visuospatial sketchpad, the episodic buffer, and this structure that stores audio information. It has a short-term store and an articulatory loop.
memory
declarative memory [or explicit memory]
phonological loop
Answer the following about theories on the origin of language, for 10 points each.
This primatologist proposed, not very convincingly, that language evolved from social grooming. He also proposed that there is a limit to the number of stable relationships humans can maintain, which is around 150.
This linguist argues that the complexity of language must have arisen from a single mutation. He basically founded modern linguistics, wrote Syntactic Structures, and proposed the theory of Universal Grammar.
Some theorists have proposed that the fact that the larynx and hyoid underwent this process in humans, unlike in related species, was crucial for the development of speech.
Robin (Ian MacDonald) Dunbar
(Avram) Noam Chomsky
they descended [or lowered or other synonyms]
This man divided society into cultural, economic, and politic spheres in a work that claims that modern society expects the state to fulfill its hedonistic needs. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism, who more famously declared the death of the grand cultural political systems that characterized the 19th century.
Bell's aforementioned text describes the “End of” these belief systems. Karl Mannheim traced the development of this term from a “particular” to “total” form in a book whose title pairs it with “Utopia.”
Bell’s The Coming of Post-Industrial Society correctly predicted the growing importance of the economic sector that provides these things, which are generally paired with their economic counterpart, goods.
Daniel Bell
Ideology [accept word forms]
services
This man’s 80-20 principle doesn’t apply to ACF Regionals 2016, because 20 percent of the editors ended up writing way more than 80 percent of the science. For 10 points each:
Identify this Italian economist. His namesake “efficiency” is when no one could be made better off without someone else winding up worse.
Any competitive equilibrium will lead to a Pareto efficient outcome, according to the first of these two theorems. The second implies that all Pareto efficient outcomes are competitive equilibria resulting from some initial wealth distribution.
This man’s namesake law says that if all but one market clears, then the last must clear, giving a general equilibrium. This old French dude developed general equilibrium theory in his Elements of Pure Economics.
Vilfredo Federico Damaso Pareto
first/second theorems of welfare economics
(Marie-Esprit) Léon Walras
Answer the following about some anthropological hoaxes, for 10 points each:
Derek Freeman wrote about the “fateful hoaxing” of this anthropologist, whom he claimed was fooled by the subjects of her seminal Coming of Age in Samoa.
This name was given to a previously unknown species of human whose skull was found by Charles Dawson. It turned out this species was previously unknown because it was totally made up; the skull had a human cranium and an orangutan jaw.
In the 1970s, Ferdinand Marcos took advantage of the publicity surrounding this tribe from Mindanao, a supposed remnant of Stone Age culture. It remains a source of anthropological debate.
Margaret Mead
Piltdown Man
Tasaday people
On a price-quantity graph, this curve is almost always downward-sloping. For 10 points each:
Identify this graphical representation of how much of a good consumers want. In a free market, the equilibrium is where it intersects the supply curve
This equation finds the derivative of demand for good X with respect to the price of Y, decomposing the change into easily-calculated substitution and income effects
Like everything else in microeconomics, deriving Slutsky's equation is easier with this theorem. Basically, it says that the change in some function's maximum can be found by evaluating the partial at the point that that maximum was achieved.
demand curve 
Slutsky equation
envelope theorem
The essay that popularized this concept applied it to a case of sheep-stealing among Jews in Morocco. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnographic method of situating individual behavioral acts within the broader cultural context from which they take their meanings.
The idea of “thick description” was adapted from Gilbert Ryle by this symbolic anthropologist, the author of The Interpretation of Cultures and Islam Observed.
This Saudi anthropologist and author of Formations of the Secular criticized Geertz’s methodology in Anthropological Concepts of Religion: Reflections on Geertz.
thick description
Clifford (James) Geertz
Talal Asad
This anthropologist’s book Patterns of Culture contrasts the Zuni and the Kwakiutl, describing the former as Apollonian and the latter as Dionysian. For 10 points each:
Name this American anthropologist, who studied Japanese culture to write The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
In The Chrysanthemum and the Sword, Benedict contrasted American and Japanese cultures by describing them as these two types of culture, based on the sentiments they inculcate in those that misbehave.
During World War II, Ruth Benedict co-wrote this pamphlet with Gene Weltfish. It describes how “Northern Negroes” performed better on intelligence tests than “Southern Whites” to indicate the impact of education.
Ruth Benedict
guilt culture and shame culture
“The Races of Mankind”
One half of this scheme is “high definition” (meaning: “filled with data”), and extends a single sense. For 10 points each.
Name this binary classification scheme used to categorize media based on the level of participation required by the consumer.
This thinker distinguished between hot and cool media in his book Understanding Media. This thinker may be better known for his mantra “the medium is the message.”
This Welsh Marxist critic lambasted McLuhan’s technological determinism in Television: Technology and Cultural Form. This author of Culture and Society provided definitional essays for 110 words in his book Keywords.
hot and cool media
Marshall McLuhan
Raymond (Henry) Williams
This psychologist theorized that the process of a mother holding a child develops a key bond between them. For 10 points each:
Name this major Object Relations theorist who developed the ideas of the true and false self.
The notion of object relations was first discussed by this man in his paper “The Genesis of the Object Relation.” He argued that we spend our lives fighting to return to the womb in The Trauma of Birth.
Rank broke with Sigmund Freud by suggesting a stage before people were subject to this concept, in which males desire to possess their mother and remove their father. It is named for a Greek king.
Donald Woods Winnicott
Otto Rank
Oedipus Complex [or Oedipal Complex]
Excrescence and paragoge are two types of this sound change. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the insertion of a sound into a word. An example of this process during the evolution of Spanish from Latin is the insertion of a “b” from hominem to hombre.
Anaptyxis is a type of epenthesis that inserts these specific sounds. These sounds are produced with an open vocal tract and usually form the nucleus of a syllable. In English, they include “Ay” and “Ah.”
This phenomenon in French can be analyzed as a synchronic epenthetic process. It involves the pronunciation of a normally silent word-final consonant when the following word begins with a vowel, such as “les arbres” [lay-zarb].
epenthesis [accept epenthetic]
vowels
liaison
One social scientist with this surname, James, is a leading theorist of violent behavior who ran the Center for the Study of Violence at Harvard Medical School. For 10 points each:
Give this surname of a psychologist whose Mapping the Moral Domain builds upon an earlier work that champions an ethic of care rather than an ethic of justice.
Gilligan’s In a Different Voice criticizes this male-centered nature of this psychologist’s six stages of moral development. Those stages are divided into pre-conventional, conventional, and post-conventional levels.
Both Gilligan and Kohlberg build on the model of this Swiss thinker, who traced development through sensorimotor, pre-operational, concrete operational, and formal operational stages.
Carol Gilligan
Lawrence Kohlberg
Jean Piaget
This quantity can be found pretty quickly using Newton’s method if you know the value of vega. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity, which, when plotted against strike price, often displays a namesake “smile.” This forward-looking value is derived from the prices of certain financial instruments.
Implied volatility can be figured out by looking at the prices of these contracts. The “call” variety of them gives the holder the right to buy the underlying at a certain price at some time in the future.
This formula, later improved by Robert Merton, prices options by assuming that the log returns are a random walk with constant volatility, in a constant interest-rate environment.
implied volatility [prompt on partial answer]
options
Black-Scholes-Merton model
Even when different types of these events occur, as long as they allocate goods in the same manner, they have the same expected revenue. For 10 points each:
Identify these markets in which goods are typically sold to the highest bidder
Auction theory is a subfield of this economic discipline, sometimes called reverse game theory. By its revelation principle, all games can be engineered to incentivize truthful revealing of private information.
Auctions allow for a primitive form of this practice, where different subsets of the market pay different prices for a similar good. The "second degree" type of this practice offers a smaller unit price to people who buy more.
auctions 
mechanism design
price discrimination
This book opens with a criticism of John Austin’s “command theory,” and distinguishes between “social habits” and “social rules.” For 10 points each:
Name this book-length exposition of the philosophy of legal positivism by H.L.A. Hart.
A foundational principle of H.L.A. Hart’s legal positivism is that all legal systems must have this kind of metarule that can be used to test the validity of a law.
In a debate with H.L.A. Hart, Patrick Devlin defined “common morality” as what is acceptable to someone serving on one of these bodies. In the US, these bodies have twelve people in their “trial” or “petit” form.
The Concept of Law
rule of recognition
juries [or jury]
This man presented the formula “H = S + C + V” to describe the title concept in his 2002 work Authentic Happiness. For 10 points each:
Identify this psychologist at the University of Pennsylvania who developed the concept of learned helplessness.
Seligman theorized learned helplessness after discovering that these animals failed to escape avoidable shocks after repeatedly suffering unavoidable ones. These animals were more famously studied by Ivan Pavlov.
This theorist and usability engineer at UCSD examined whether modern-day fears of using technology or doing math are a result of learned or “taught” helplessness in his The Design of Everyday Things.
Martin Seligman
Dogs
Donald Norman
The zero lower bound refers to the impracticability of this situation, yet several central banks including the ECB have implemented it. For 10 points each:
Name this situation which makes it very unattractive for investors to keep their money in the bank.
In December, this US central bank hiked interest rates by a quarter percentage point. In the past it has been chaired by Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke, but now Janet Yellen chairs it.
Lowering interest rates would be an example of this kind of monetary policy, the goal of which is to increase investing and spending.
negative nominal interest rate
Federal Reserve
expansionary monetary policy
Jim Sinclair’s essay “Don’t Mourn for Us” argues that this condition shouldn’t be cured. For 10 points each:
Name this disorder which was fraudulently claimed to be caused by the MMR vaccine by Andrew Wakefield.
People with autism can have deficits in this ability, defined as the ability to attribute mental states to others.
This psychologist extended his empathizing-systemizing theory to hypothesize that autism is characterized by an “extreme male brain.” He created a 50-question test for self-diagnosis of autism.
autism
theory of mind
Simon Baron-Cohen
Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk coined the term “roundaboutness” to refer to the use of these goods. For 10 points each:
Name these durable goods, such as machinery, which are used in the production of other goods.
The consumption of this type of good increases as their price increases. Examples include potatoes during the Irish potato famine.
Giffen goods violate the law stating that this value decreases when price increases. In other words, the price elasticity of this value is generally negative.
capital goods
Giffen goods
demand
The sentence “It is snowing” contains an instance of the expletive type of this category. For 10 points each:
Name these words which stand in for nouns or noun phrases.
Many languages distinguish between more and less formal versions of second-person pronouns; that distinction is given this two-letter name.
In the Austronesian languages, pronouns, but not nouns, are marked for this grammatical number, which indicates exactly two entities. Ancient Greek had this number, as does Sanskrit.
pronouns
T-V distinction
dual number
Answer the following about psychologists named Aronson, for 10 points each.
Elliot Aronson is known for his research on this phenomenon, also studied by Leon Festinger, in which individuals are uncomfortable because they hold contradictory beliefs or values.
Elliot Aronson also developed this teaching technique, in which a class is divided into small groups to work on problems, and then combine their solutions to solve a larger problem.
Claude Steele and Joshua Aronson demonstrated this effect, a type of self-fulfilling prophecy in which individuals underperform when made to feel like they are representing their race or other social group.
cognitive dissonance
jigsaw classroom
stereotype threat
This skull was blown into two pieces by Robert Broom’s dynamite. For 10 points each:
Name this skull found in South Africa by Broom and John T. Robinson, whose nickname suggests that it belonged to a woman, although its sex is unclear.
Mrs. Ples is a specimen of this species, which is thought to be an ancestor of modern humans. Raymond Dart discovered the Taung Child, another specimen of this species, in South Africa.
Perhaps the most famous African Australopithecus find is this Australopithecus afarensis specimen found in Ethiopia, named after a woman from a Beatles song.
Mrs. Ples
Australopithecus africanus
Lucy [or AL-288-1; or Dinkinesh]
These languages often use reduplication to form plurals. For 10 points each:
Name these simplified languages which arise when groups which do not have a language in common need to communicate. When learned as a native language, they often develop into creoles.
The creole language Tok Pisin, is spoken in this country, which is the most linguistically diverse in the world. Its indigenous languages which are not Austronesian or Australian belong to its namesake group of languages.
This term refers to the process whereby a pidgin or creole replaces much of its vocabulary with that of a different language.
pidgins
Papua New Guinea
relexification [accept word forms]
This concept is associated with the “eruption of the real” in a book about it called The Powers of Horror. For 10 points each:
Identify this term, which is used to refer to the process by which a child rejects their mother in the book Desire in Language.
The aforementioned books are by Julia Kristeva, who was greatly influenced by this French psychoanalyst, who postulated the mirror stage and delivered many influential seminars.
Lacan also influenced a book by Deleuze and Guattari named after this mythological character. Julia Kristeva wrote about his namesake complex, which refers to a male’s desire to have sex with his mother.
abjection
Jacques Lacan [or Jacques Marie Emile Lacan]
Oedipus
Judith Wallerstein performed a 25-year longitudinal study investigating the effect of this phenomenon on children. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon, which affects 40 to 50 percent of marriages in the U.S. according to the American Psychological Association.
John Gottman models marital stability by looking at these brief, uncontrolled facial movements. The show Lie to Me is based on Paul Ekman’s use of these things to detect lies.
This German sociologist has written about the nuclear family. With Anthony Giddens, he theorized the “risk society” and discussed reflexive modernization.
divorce
microexpressions [prompt on “facial expressions”]
Ulrich Beck
This term was coined by the historian R. B. McCallum. For 10 points each:
Identify this term for the statistical analysis of polls and elections.
Perhaps the most famous psephologist is this editor-in-chief of FiveThirtyEight.com, who usually manages to predict the outcomes of almost every state in federal elections. He wrote the book The Signal and the Noise.
Some psephologists believe that, when polled, people will often falsely claim that they are planning to vote for a candidate with this quality, which is known as the Bradley effect, since Tom Bradley lost the 1982 California governor’s race despite leading the polls.
psephology
Nate Silver [or Nathaniel Read Silver]
a non-white candidate [or a minority candidate; accept specific minorities, like black candidates]
Answer the following about social constructionism, for 10 points each.
Many sociologists hold that this concept is socially constructed, and is separate from the biological concept of sex.
In 2005, this economist garnered controversy by suggesting that there was an innate difference in scientific aptitude between men and women. He resigned as President of Harvard soon after.
Social constructionism was popularized by the 1966 publication of The Social Construction of Reality by this pair of authors.
gender
Larry Summers [or Lawrence Henry Summers]
Peter Berger and Thomas Luckmann [or Peter Ludwig Berger in place of “Peter Berger”; both names required]
The originator of the model worked it out by moving pennies and dimes around on a chessboard in an attempt to elucidate mechanisms by which neighborhoods “tip.” For 10 points each:
Name this model in which an agent will only leave a space if a certain percent of the surrounding agents are a different color from him.
Schelling is also known for his research on these solutions people use for coordination without communication. Schelling used Grand Central Station as an example of where strangers might decide to meet if they didn’t agree on the location beforehand.
Schelling also discussed the Hobbesian Trap, a situation which arises when mutual distrust lowers the payoff from dovish strategies and shifts these entities towards hawkish ones. In game theory these solutions refer to points in which no player can improve his situation by changing her strategy individually.
Schelling segregation model [accept either underlined part]
focal points
Nash equilibria
This thinker introduced a conceptual triad of space which includes everyday and practical conceptions, representations used by cartographers, and an underground or imaginary conception which is linked to social life and art. For 10 points each:
Name this French Marxist who wrote The Production of Space.
Lefebvre was particularly interested in these entities, which he thought that people had the right to access and change. Approaches to their design include New Urbanism, which emphasizes walkability.
Marx discussed how this occurs between the worker and his product because the worker sells his labor for a wage. In Critique of Everyday Life, Lefebvre claims that modern capitalism has extended this feeling to all activities, not just labor.
Henri Lefebvre
cities
alienation [or estrangement]
This book asks if Caesar or Napoleon would have wanted to conquer Europe if they could have “pop[ped]” a Prozac tablet now or then.” For 10 points each:
Name this book, subtitled “Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution,” which argues that genetic engineering could have major political consequences.
This thinker wrote Our Posthuman Future. He is better known for a book arguing that liberal democracy is the final stage in the evolution of government.
In the aforementioned book, Fukuyama proclaimed the end of this thing. Herodotus is considered to be the father of this field.
Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution
Francis Fukuyama [or Yoshihiro Francis Fukuyama]
history
Marvin Harris wrote about the religious significance of these animals. For 10 points each:
Name these animals. Melville Herskovits wrote about the significance of owning these animals in East Africa, such as among the Maasai.
In The Rise of Anthropological Theory, Marvin Harris introduced this theoretical paradigm in anthropology, influenced by Karl Marx and Thomas Malthus. It makes use of the emic/etic distinction.
Harris argued that Aztec human sacrifice was accompanied by this practice, to make up for the low-protein Aztec diet.
cattle [accept cows or bulls]
cultural materialism
cannibalism [or clear equivalents]
Answer some questions about choice in economic theory, for 10 points each.
This economist pioneered social choice theory in a book that shows that there is no social preference ordering with all of five desirable conditions, his namesake impossibility theorem.
Mancur Olson’s study of public choice in The Logic of Collective Action centered on a form of this problem in which a minority can dominate. This problem arises when people benefit from stuff they haven’t paid for.
This German­-American economist discussed consumers’ choice to stop buying a brand or complain about it, in the book Exit, Voice, and Loyalty.
Kenneth (Joseph) Arrow
free rider problem
Albert Otto Hirschman
This book’s discussion of “social forms” includes a lengthy section on abstract “Group Formation and the Development of Individuality.” For 10 points each:
Name this book whose other sections include excursuses on “fashion” and “The Stranger.” It is generally considered the magnum opus of Georg Simmel.
Simmel’s prime example of “The Stranger” is this ethnic minority in Germany. Like most of the great German scholars of his time, Simmel was born into this non­-Christian faith.
Simmel is also well-­known for a standalone essay about the effect of this entity on the “mental life” of modern people. Jane Jacobs is best-­known for her studies of these entities.
Soziologie [or Sociology]
Jews [accept equivalents like Judaism, Hebrews, etc.]
the city [or the metropolis; accept equivalents like urban environments]
In a horrific experiment, this phenomenon was found in the somatosensory cortices of monkeys who had their fingers sewn together. For 10 points each:
Give this general term for lasting changes in the brain. In extreme cases like losing a sense, it can involve a complete cortical remapping, where new data is fed to the now­inactive area
In an example of cortical remapping, reading Braille has been shown to activate the region of the brain involved in this sense. Braille was developed for people who have impairments in this sense
In a classic example of neuroplasticity, these strips of neurons that take input from one eye change size if you block one or both of an infant’s eyes. Like everything in the visual cortex, they were discovered by Hubel and Wiesel.
neuroplasticity [accept any answer involving plasticity]
vision [or sight; accept reasonable equivalents involving words like seeing]
ocular dominance columns
Answer some questions about Kenneth Pike, for 10 points each.
Kenneth Pike worked mainly in this field, in which he was a student of Leonard Bloomfield. Like Fernand de Saussure, Bloomfield was well-­known for his work related to Proto­-Indo­-European in this discipline.
Pike is best-­known for coming up with a pair of terms to describe two different approaches in linguistic research. One was this term, which refers to research done from “within the culture,” and is contrasted with “etic.”
Pike’s concepts of “emic” and “etic” were popularized by anthropologist Marvin Harris, who advocated a “cultural” form of this approach. Karl Marx’s focus on modes of production introduced this approach.
linguistics
emic
materialism [accept historical materialism, dialectical materialism, or cultural materialism]
You just robbed a bank! Too bad you and your partner got arrested. For 10 points each:
If one of you betrays the other, you will go free and they will get 3 years; if you both confess, you will get 2 years; and if neither confess you both get a year. You realize you are stuck in a transparently obvious scenario of this model analyzed in game theory.
You and your partner escape prison, but get arrested again! Now you are playing an iterated prisoner’s dilemma in which this strategy could help you. It involves doing whatever your partner did on the last move.
If you get out, you two can play this game by taking coins from separate piles and trying to be the one to take the last object from the heap. The Sprague-Grundy theorem says that all impartial games are equivalent to this game.
prisoner’s dilemma
tit for tat strategy
Nim
Name some things about dead languages, for 10 points each:
This language is the root of the Romance family. It’s probably the most stereotypical dead language, but that doesn’t prevent thousands of high school students learning it to translate the Gallic Wars and the Aeneid.
The extinct Nyanga-li, Gbati-ri, and Mayeka languages were all part of this group. This language family, prevalent in Southern Africa, is the largest group in the Niger-Congo phylum and more famously includes Swahili.
This language, whose last native speaker was Dolly Pentreath. After a revival, it was removed from the UNESCO list of extinct languages in 2010.
Latin
Bantu
Cornish
The Flynn effect describes an apparent increase in the measure of this quantity over time, which is probably not an actual increase in this quantity.
For 10 points, name this quantity tested by Stanford and Binet, often symbolized by “g.” It can be measured with the Catell Culture Fair III and the Das-Naglieri system.
This psychologist devised an eponymous “Adult Intelligence Scale” because he did not agree with the Binet scale’s emphasis on children.
This other intelligence test is nonverbal and taken in groups; it was developed to measure the meaning-making component of Spearman’s “g” and is named because it asks subjects to identify the next element in a grid pattern.
intelligence
David Weschler
Raven’s Progressive Matrices
One study found that the “Titchener circles,” an example of these things, affects manual estimation of distance to a target but not instinctive grasping towards it. For 10 points each:
Name these things, which include the “Fraser spiral,” concentric circles that appear to be a spiral, and the Muller-Lyer one, in which the orientation of arrows affects perception of line length.
This type of room appears square but is actually trapezoidal and inclined, so as to create the optical illusion that a person walking from one end to the other grows or shrinks incredibly.
This optical illusion was defined as Max Wertheimer as part of the Gestalt school of psychology. It causes people to think a succession of images is actually one moving element.
optical illusion
Ames room
phi phenomenon
A 2006 paper by Samuel Scheffler asks if this action is “morally distinctive.” For 10 points each:
Name this type of action which Scheffler argues is characterized by the use or threat of violence to destabilize an existing social order.
Scheffler differentiates between general terrorism and terrorism named for this entity, which tries to strengthen, not destabilize, the social order. Max Weber claimed that this entity had a monopoly on the legitimate use of force.
This author of Just and Unjust Wars justified the “terror bombing” of German cities during WWII, claiming that supreme emergencies can justify “dirtying” one’s hands.
terrorism
the state [or state terror]
Michael Walzer
A UT economist with this surname heads up the Texas Inequality project, which uses the Theil index instead of the traditional Gini coefficient to measure inequality. For 10 points each:
Identify this surname, which also belongs to that man’s father, who theorized that the mechanisms of supply and demand had been largely supplanted by corporate planning in The New Industrial State.
Both Galbraiths’ views on economics were heavily influenced by this British economist, who argued that the government should use its spending to control the business cycle in his General Theory.
In a 1952 book, John Kenneth Galbraith used this two-word phrase to refer to anti-competitive forces, such as company mergers, which work to influence the market’s outcomes and prevent a socially optimal solution.
Galbraith [James G. and John K. respectively]
John Maynard Keynes
countervailing power [accept American Capitalism - The Concept of Countervailing Power]
This essay argues that living in a city requires people to develop a “protective organ.” For 10 points each:
Name this essay that compares the conflict between the two title entities to primitive man’s struggle with nature. It argues that city living creates a sense of apathy and isolation but also provides greater freedom.
This author criticized urban planners in The Death and Life of Great American Cities, claiming that so-called urban renewal actually destroyed dense, multifunctional urban spaces.
 Sociologist Ernest Burgess created the concentric zone model of cities, which divides them into circles. The outermost ring is named for these people who live in the suburbs and typically drive to the city to work.
“The Metropolis and Mental Life”
Jane Jacobs
commuters
In an experiment conducted at one of these places, participants claimed to hear words like “empty” and “hollow.” For 10 points each:
Name these places which are often criticized for allowing a “revolving door” model of discharging and readmitting patients.
This man ran the aforementioned experiment, in which participants checked into psychiatric institutions and then behaved normally. It showed that mental hospitals could not differentiate between the sane and the insane.
In The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, Oliver Sacks studied mental hospital patients such as Jimmie, a man with this condition. The most famous sufferer from this condition, H.M., received it from a lobotomy.
mental hospitals [or asylums; accept other synonyms like sanatoriums; prompt on hospitals]
David Rosenhan
amnesia
An essay with this term in its title begins by criticizing the historical perspectives of universalists and diffusionists. For 10 points each:
Name this branch of anthropology that compares and contrasts different peoples and cultures. The aforementioned essay about this discipline asserts that societies are always “dynamic” and “in flux,” containing phenomena that are simultaneously both cause and effect.
This “Father of American Anthropology” wrote “The Methods of Ethnology” and started an anthropology department at Columbia with students like Margaret Mead and Zora Neale Hurston.
The modern Lithuanian anthropologist Vytis Ciubrinkas has argued the “national ethnology” predominant in Eastern Europe focuses on studying this set of traditional practices, knowledge, literature, and art passed on largely through oral communication.
ethnology
Franz Uri Boas
folklore
Companies like McKinsey use the acronym MECE to guide this process, meaning “Mutually Exclusive, Collectively Exhaustive.” For 10 points each:
Name this process in which a company, rather than engage in mass marketing, differentiates a target audience through factors like geography, demographics, or lifestyle.
This market research company produces a lifestyle segmentation system called PRIZM, though it is probably better known for measuring television viewership in its namesake “ratings.”
This other marketing term refers to the expected total net profit associated with a single customer, taking into account retention rate, contribution margin, and discount rate.
market segmentation [prompt on “discrimination” or something like “targeted advertising”]
Nielsen Holdings PLC [or Nielsen Media Research]
customer lifetime value [or lifetime customer value; or CLTV or CLV or LCV or LTV]
This book says that anthropologist would only continuously contradict their findings with the phrase “but also” when studying the subject of this book. For 10 points each:
Name this book, which was commissioned by the U.S. War Office and researched without any fieldwork; it distinguished between “guilt” and “shame” cultures.
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword was written by this anthropologist who stated in Patterns of Culture that culture was “personality writ large.”
This Japanese psychoanalyst criticized The Chrysanthemum and the Sword in his book The Anatomy of Dependence, which discusses the concept of amae, or the need to be in good favor with others.
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword: Patterns of Japanese Culture
Ruth Benedict
Takeo Doi
This book challenges the idea that gender is constructed and sex is scientific, since both are societally constructed. For 10 points each:
Name this 1990 book by Judith Butler about “feminism and the subversion of identity” that calls for a new, positive gender politics through performativity. It was followed by her later book, Undoing Gender.
This term refers to a “cheesy” or “kitschy” performative aesthetic often associated with drag or flamboyant homosexuality. Susan Sontag wrote some “notes on [this style].”
This author coined the term “compulsory heterosexuality” in an essay about “lesbian existence.” She also wrote about cultural pressures against lesbianism in her “Twenty-One Love Poems.”
Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity
camp [accept word forms]
Adrienne Rich
Oliver Wendell Holmes used the phrase “even a dog knows the difference between being stumbled over and being kicked” to illustrate this legal concept. For 10 points each:
Name this two-word Latin concept that one needs to have criminal intent to be culpable in a crime.
Even in the absence of mens rea, people can be found culpable due to this legal term. This term refers to people who have ignored a “duty of care” and is often applied in cases of endangerment of a child or drunk driving.
This charge is used on people who abet felonies and are unlike accomplices in that they are generally not present at a crime scene. Those who assist the principal criminal after the commission of a crime are known as these things “after the fact.”
mens rea [prompt on guilty mind]
negligence [accept word forms like negligent, do not accept negligible]
accessory [accept accessory after the fact; accept accessory before the fact]
Languages in this family include Mari and Udmurt. For 10 points each:
Name this large language family whose Finno–Ugric branch includes Finnish and Hungarian. It is named for the mountain range that separates Europe and Asia.
Uralic languages, but not Estonian, have this morphological feature in which an underspecified phoneme gets height, backness, or roundness via long-distance assimilation. The Turkish plural suffix becomes either -lar or -ler due to this process.
Uralic languages often have many grammatical cases to describe this attribute, such as the adessive and illative. Japanese and Korean have three deictic (“DIKE-tik”) demonstratives, such as the medial, to convey this information.
Uralic languages
vowel harmony [prompt on harmony]
location [or locative cases; accept descriptions like where something is located; accept place, distance, proximity, or equivalents; do not accept “direction”]
Answer the following about the use of photographs in anthropology, for 10 points each.
These two anthropologists created a “photographical analysis” of Balinese Character, and filmed Trance and Dance in Bali on the same trip. Give both their names.
Black-and-white photographs feature in Righteous Dopefiend, Philippe Bourgois’s study of homeless heroin addicts in this state. In this state, the last of the Yahi tribe, Ishi, was housed at a university in Berkeley.
The often staged and airbrushed photographs of Native Americans taken by E. S. Curtis are usually considered part of this kind of ethnography, which focuses on preserving information about disappearing cultures.
Margaret Mead AND Gregory Bateson
California
salvage ethnography [or salvage anthropology]
Edward Banfield portrayed residents of a town in this region as uninterested in taking initiative for the public good in his book The Moral Basis of a Backward Society. For 10 points each:
Identify this region. The book Making Democracy Works claims that this region’s underdevelopment and failures of local government are caused by a lack of trust and civic involvement.
Making Democracy Work was written by this American sociologist whose best-known book uses decreasing membership in sports leagues to trace a decline in “social capital” in the United States.
Banfield’s The Moral Basis of a Backward Society coined a term for an “amoral” focus on the interests of this unit. The “nuclear” group of this sort usually includes two married adults.
Southern Italy [or Mezzogiorno; prompt on the South]
Robert Putnam (The book is Bowling Alone.)
the family [or word forms such as families or familism]
A mathematical model presented in this paper indicates that although there are traders willing to buy and sell a certain good at prices between 0 and 3, no trades will take place. For 10 points each:
Name this paper by George Akerlof. It uses the example of the market for a certain good to examine how asymmetric information in a market can result in adverse selection.
In “The Market for ‘Lemons,’” Akerlof applied the Lemons model to the market for this service, in which adverse selection takes place because people who carry more risk are more likely to want this service.
Akerlof won the 2001 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics along with Joseph Stiglitz and this other economist, who described how education can serve as a signal to employers in his 1973 paper “Job Market Signalling.”
“The Market for ‘Lemons’: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism”
insurance [accept specific types like health insurance or life insurance]
Michael Spence
This concept was partly inspired by its formulator’s Experience Sampling Study, in which he had teens record their feelings whenever a pager beeped. For 10 points each:
Name this state theorized by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi (“mee-HYE CHEEK-sent-mee-HYE-ee”) that appears in the upper right quadrant of the skill level versus challenge level graph. It is characterized by complete immersion in an activity.
Research on flow is part of this movement in psychology. In contrast to his learned helplessness theory, much of Martin Seligman’s work, such as a classification of 24 character strengths created with Christopher Peterson, is part of this movement.
Carol Dweck, another positive psychologist, claimed that people with a “growth mindset” believe in the mutability of this attribute. The average score for this attribute on a test of its “quotient” is 100.
flow [prompt on being in the zone; prompt on related words such as attention or focus]
positive psychology [prompt on humanistic psychology]
intelligence
Alan Bryman described this company’s namesake “-ization” as the way its practices of theming and merchandising are coming to dominate society. For 10 points each:
Name this company whose amusement parks are discussed in Umberto Eco’s “Travels in Hyperreality” and Jean Baudrillard’s Simulacra and Simulation.
The term “Disneyization” was inspired by this sociologist’s description of “McDonaldization,” a process in which society adopts the fast food industry’s dehumanizing emphasis on efficiency.
Disneyization requires that workers engage in the labor of managing these phenomena, a process first described by Arlie Hochschild. An experiment involving a fake drug called Suproxin supported the “two-factor theory” of these phenomena.
Disney
George Ritzer
emotions
The “spot” variant of this quantity is quoted for an immediate transaction, whereas the “forward” variant of this quantity is quoted for a transaction that will take place sometime in the future. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that is the price of a country’s currency in terms of another country’s currency.
Two answers required. Under the Mundell–Fleming model, a country cannot simultaneously pursue a fixed exchange rate and these two other members of the impossible trinity, also known as the Trilemma.
In order to deter short term speculation on currency transactions, this economist proposed a namesake tax that would be levied on currency transactions, thus reducing the volatility of exchange rates.
foreign exchange rate [or forex rate]
financial integration AND monetary independence [accept free capital flow or free capital movement in place of “financial integration”; accept independent monetary policy, sovereign monetary policy, or anything indicating having control over its own monetary policy in place of “monetary independence”]
James Tobin
This practice can be carried out in “impoverished” or “country club” styles according to a grid developed by Blake and Moulton. For 10 points each:
Name this practice in which Peter Drucker was a pioneering theorist. Douglas MacGregor argued that people engaged in this practice can view the motivation of others through Theory X or Theory Y.
Earlier in management theory, this leader of the Progressive-era “efficiency movement” implemented his theory of scientific management at the Bethlehem Steel Works.
In The Managerial Revolution, James Burnham argued that this economic system was being replaced by the rule of managers. Karl Marx believed that a revolution would replace this market-based system with communism.
management [or word forms such as managing or managers; prompt on word forms of leadership]
Frederick Taylor
capitalism
George Gmelch argued that Bronislaw Malinowski’s description of this practice also applies to American sports in his paper on its “Baseball” type. For 10 points each:
Identify this practice that Malinowski claimed the Trobriand islanders used for open sea fishing, but not lagoon fishing. Malinowski also discussed the Trobrianders’ use of this practice for cultivating gardens on coral atolls.
A Malinowski quote about magic closes Horace Miner’s essay about “Body Ritual among” this fictional tribe, whose use of a charm-box in a shrine parallels the use of medicine cabinets in American bathrooms.
Stanley Tambiah, an anthropologist from this country, analogized Malinowski’s account of the role of magic in the Trobrianders’ practical life to Newton and Kepler’s interest in the occult. Tambiah also wrote a book about the “Ethnic Fratricide” of this island country’s conflict between Sinhalese and Tamils.
magic
the Nacirema
Sri Lanka [or Ceylon]
According to the “real” theory of these entities, they are optimal responses of the economy to changes in total factor productivity, making government intervention unnecessary. For 10 points each:
Name these entities, which are fluctuations in the general rate of economic activity. Phases of these entities include expansion, during which the economy grows, and contraction, during which the economy shrinks.
These long-term business cycles have a length of roughly 50 years, and are named after the Soviet economist who first observed them. Joseph Schumpeter proposed that they are caused by technological innovation.
Another type of business cycle with a length of about 20 years is named after this economist, whose namesake curve shows how income inequality initially increases before decreasing as per capita income increases.
business cycles [or economic cycles]
Kondratiev waves [or K-waves]
Simon Smith Kuznets
Holmes and Rahe’s SRRS questionnaire involves ranking major life events according to how much of this phenomenon they caused. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon modeled as the three stages of alarm, resistance, and exhaustion in Hans Selye’s General Adaption Syndrome. This phenomenon with acute and chronic varieties is a response to an outside stimulus, such as a threat.
In response to acute stress, a physiological reaction prepares the body to either face or avoid the threat, a response known by these two rhyming verbs.
This psychologist’s ABC model of emotional reactions describes how people appraise their own stress. This man, who isn’t Aaron Beck, introduced a type of therapy that focuses on disputing irrational beliefs and replacing them with more effective ones.
stress
fight or flight
Albert Ellis
This economist advocated controlling the location of industry and organizing the movement of labor to achieve full employment in his report Full Employment in a Free Society. For 10 points each:
Name this economist who may be better known for identifying Want, Disease, Ignorance, Squalor, and Idleness as the “five giants on the road to reconstruction” in a namesake report titled Social Insurance and Allied Services.
The Beveridge Report provided an outline for the establishment of a welfare state in this country following World War II. Beveridge himself was from this country, as was the economist John Maynard Keynes.
Though he never actually developed it, Beveridge names a curve that plots this quantity against unemployment rate. Changes in the amount of friction in the labor market cause that curve to shift left and right.
William Henry Beveridge
United Kingdom [or UK; or Great Britain; accept England]
job vacancy rate
Harvey Carr and John Watson’s “kerplunk” experiment found that rats would ignore external stimuli after being trained to find food in one of these structures. For 10 points each:
Identify these structures composed of paths and walls that were often navigated by mice and rats during behaviorist psychology experiments.
Robert Zajonc (“ZYE-unce”) found that cockroaches perform worse in a complex maze when this element is added. In the facilitation effect investigated by Zajonc, cockroaches and humans alike perform better on familiar tasks and worse on new ones when this variable is added.
A study by Edward Tolman found that rats in a maze engaged in the “latent” form of this process even without receiving the reinforcement of food. Albert Bandura’s theory of the “social” type of this process stresses the importance of observation.
mazes [or labyrinths]
the presence of other people or cockroaches [or having an audience; or mere presence; or being in a social situation; or equivalents of others being present]
learning [prompt on synonyms]
Elaine Cumming and William Henry’s disengagement theory of these people has since been contested by activity and continuity theories. For 10 points each:
Identify this sort of person. Robert Neil Butler coined a term for prejudice against them.
Studies of material well-being among the elderly often use the principle of cumulative disadvantage, which this sociologist first described as the “Matthew Effect.” This man advanced the strain theory of deviance and coined the term “self-fulfilling prophecy.”
Elisabeth Kubler-Ross’s observations of the elderly prior to death inspired her five-stage model of this feeling, which features the steps of denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.
old people [or the elderly; or aging people; or equivalents like geriatric people]
Robert K. Merton
grief
In a book titled for this sort of feature, Mitchell Duneier described his time with the book vendor Hakim Hasan. For 10 points each:
Name these structures. Their “ballet” is discussed by Jane Jacobs in The Life and Death of Great American Cities, which claims that active use of these things improves an area’s safety.
Mitchell Duneier conducted the participant observation study described in Sidewalk in this city. The Life and Death of Great American Cities helped defeat Robert Moses’s plan for a Mid-Manhattan Expressway in this city.
In another participant observation study, a sociologist with this surname spent months visiting bars on Chicago’s South Side. Another thinker with this surname wrote about the growth of nationalism in Imagined Communities.
sidewalks [accept footpaths or pavements; prompt on walkways or similar answers]
New York City [or NYC]
Anderson [or Benedict Anderson; or Elijah Anderson]
The subjects of one of this man’s experiments started rocking hysterically and ripping out pieces of their hair and skin. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who with student Stephen Suomi observed the preference of his subjects for fake mothers made of cloth over ones made of wire.
These experiments devised by Mary Ainsworth arrived at conclusions related to Harlow’s research without torturing any Rhesus monkeys. These experiments, in which a mother leaves an infant alone in a playroom, can be used to assess attachment styles.
In 1958, Harlow published his findings in a paper titled for the “nature” of this concept. John Lee’s color wheel theory of this feeling features types such as agape and eros.
Harry Harlow
Strange Situation experiments [or Strange Situation Classification]
love
Identify some types of animals used in psychology research, for 10 points each.
John Watson conditioned Little Albert to fear one of these animals. Edward Tolman created his theory of cognitive maps while experimenting on how these animals run mazes.
Mary Cover Jones demonstrated counterconditioning by eliminating Little Peter's fear of one of these animals. A cutaneous effect named for this creature, discovered by Geldard and Sherrick, is caused by quick taps on different areas of skin.
Martin Seligman placed these animals in a shuttle box and applied electric shocks, demonstrating that they exhibit learned helplessness.
rats [do not accept "mice"]
rabbits [or cutaneous rabbit illusion]
dogs
In this experiment's competition stage, the Eagles burned the Rattlers' flag. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment in which twenty-two campers at the namesake state park were divided into two groups. When the groups were forced to work together toward a "superordinate goal", intergroup conflict was reduced.
Muzafer Sherif, who led the Robbers Cave experiment, also studied this phenomenon. Solomon Asch's study of this phenomenon found that people would modify their opinion of the length of lines to match the majority opinion.
Gerard and Deutsch showed that the conformity exhibited in the Asch experiment was caused by two kinds of this phenomenon: the normative, in which subjects react to others' opinions of them, and the informational, in which subjects assume others have correct opinions.
Robbers Cave experiment
conformity
social influence [or normative influence; or informational influence]
This effect would be seen maximally if the LM curve were vertical, implying that increasing government spending only causes interest rates and not overall output to increase. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which increasing interest rates caused by fiscal policy would cause a decrease in private sector investment.
Full crowding out is the opposite of a liquidity trap, in which this type of policy can't affect interest rates at all, and fiscal policy must be used. Milton Friedman said inflation is "always and everywhere" this type of phenomenon.
In order to control real interest rates, the Fed should obey this rule, which says that the nominal interest rate should cover any changes in inflation. It was named for a Stanford economist who formulated it in 1993.
crowding out
monetary policy [accept "Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon"]
Taylor rule [or Taylor's principle, etc.]
This work presents social interaction in the language of theater performances. For 10 points each:
Name this work, which describes the author's aforementioned dramaturgical model of social interaction, and analyzes such concepts as manner and appearance in social interaction.
The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life is a work by this Canadian sociologist who also wrote Asylums.
In a 1986 book, Goffman introduced this sociological technique, which considers how individuals "organize experience" through the use of specific salient details. Todd Gitlin applied this technique to news coverage.
The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life 
Erving Goffman
frame analysis [or framing analysis; accept Frame Analysis: An Essay on the Organization of Experience]
Upon seeing Little Miss Muffet's tuffet, a bystander might ask "What are you sitting on?" For 10 points each, answer the following about how that question works:
Many papers in this subfield of linguistics discuss English questions as a product of "Wh-movement." Linguists in this field often diagram sentences to analyze or discover grammatical rules. 
Wh-movement is one of these processes from a namesake type of generative grammar. They alter a deep structure like "you are sitting on what" to make a surface sentence like "What are you sitting on?"
Linguists use this symbol to mark the start of unaccepted or ungrammatical utterances, such as the pre-transformed "you are sitting on what." It also marks reconstructed words in historical linguistics
syntax
transformations [accept transformational-generative grammar; anti-prompt on "movements" or "Move alpha"]
asterisk [or star; or splat; accept * if someone manages to pronounce that symbol aloud]
This thinker proposed a theory of social types including "the stranger," "the mediator," and "the poor," and his most famous book links Ferdinand TÃ¶nnies's concept of the transition from Gemeinschaft to Gesellschaft with the end of the barter economy. For 10 points each:
Name this early sociologist who analyzed economic exchange as a form of social interaction.
The aforementioned book by Simmel is titled for the "Philosophy of" this commodity. Simmel argues that the adoption of this commodity created a revolutionary change in social structure.
This German acquaintance of Simmel wrote Georg Simmel as Sociologist. He put forth his own ideas in Economy and Society and The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
Georg Simmel
money
Max Weber 
This thinker argues that India's veneration of sacred cows can be rationally explained as a response to ecological pressures, in particular the usefulness of cattle as draft animals in agriculture. For 10 points each:
Name this American anthropologist, who used his method of "cultural materialism" in studies like Cows, Pigs, Wars, and Witches and Cannibals and Kings.
Harris explained the periodic warfare of this Amazon rainforest tribe as a response to scarcity of protein, thus disagreeing with Napoleon Chagnon's claim that these "fierce people" are innately aggressive.
Harris criticized this foundational anthropologist and his students for using "historical particularism" and abandoning theory. This author of The Mind of Primitive Man taught Alfred Kroeber and Margaret Mead.
Marvin Harris
Yanomamo [or Yanomami]
Franz Boas 
In the paper "Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations," this psychologist drew on his time in Buchenwald and Dachau to analyze the effects of Nazi abuse on personality. For 10 points each:
Name this largely-discredited child psychologist who discussed autism in The Empty Fortress.
Bettelheim's book The Uses of Enchantment argues for the importance of these stories. Common tropes in them were analyzed by Vladimir Propp, and lots of them were popularized by the Grimm brothers.
These brain cells, which activate upon observing other people's movements, have been the focus of recent research on autism and empathy since Bettelheim's "refrigerator mother" theory was discredited. 
Bruno Bettelheim
fairy tales [or folk tales; prompt on "myths"]
mirror neurons 
A novel set during this time period describes Johannes Pinneberg's struggles working at the department store Mandels and his inability to keep a job during a terrible economic crisis. For 10 points each:
Name this government, which is in power during the action of the novel Little Man, What Now? The play I Am A Camera adapted stories set during this government's tenure by Christopher Isherwood.
This author wrote Little Man, What Now? and a novel in which Otto and Anna Quangel are executed for secretly sending out postcards urging resistance against Hitler, Every Man Dies Alone.
Like the Quangels, this teenage author hid from the Gestapo, in her case using the phrase "Dear Kitty" to begin diary entries during the two years she spent living in Amsterdam's Secret Annex.
Weimar Republic [prompt on "Germany"]
Hans Fallada [or Rudolf Ditzen]
Annelies Marie "Anne" Frank
Name some things from microeconomics and consumer choice theory, for 10 points each:
This economics equation relates uncompensated and compensated forms of demand, also known as Marshallian and Hicksian demand. It includes terms accounting for the substitution and income effects.
The derivation of the Slutsky equation uses an "indirect" function for finding a consumer's maximal value for this quantity given income and price level. This term denotes the personal value a consumer gets from a good.
The aforementioned derivation invokes this lemma, which states that for a fixed level of utility and prices, Hicksian demand for a good equals the derivative of the expenditure function with respect to the price of the good.
Slutsky equation
utility [or indirect utility function]
Shephard's lemma
Milton Rokeach conducted a two year experiment in one of these places that resulted in the book The Three Christs of Ypsilanti. For 10 points each:
Name these places which were the subject of the Rosenhan experiment, which showed they were easy to get in to but hard to leave.
This psychiatrist controversially argued that very few mental illnesses have a physiological basis, and that psychotherapy should put more emphasis on instilling ethical norms, in his book The Myth of Mental Illness.
Szasz argued that this condition is a moral, rather than medical, issue. Bruce Alexander's Rat Park experiment supposedly disproved that opiates can directly cause this condition, which is characterized by compulsive use of a drug or other stimulus.
mental hospitals [or psychiatric hospitals; or insane asylums; or psychiatric wards; or looney bins; accept any answer indicating a facility where mentally ill people are taken upon removal from society]
Thomas Stephen Szasz
addiction [accept word forms; prompt on "dependence" or similar answers]
This man conducted dubious experiments which purported to show that people find rectangles with sides approximating the golden ratio more aesthetically pleasing. For 10 points each:
Name this father of psychophysics. His namesake law, an expansion of Weber's law, states that the response to a stimulus is proportional to the log of the stimulus's intensity.
Hermann Ebbinghaus adapted Fechner's principles to study this mental faculty, creating the forgetting curve. Its "short term" form can use about four facts, less than an early estimate of "7 plus or minus 2."
Fechner made predictions about people who have undergone this procedure, which were confirmed by experiments of Roger Sperry. People who have undergone this procedure suffer from "alien hand syndrome" and cannot verbalize about objects that they see with their left eye.
Gustav Fechner
memory [or short-term memory; or working memory]
split-brain surgery [or corpus callosotomy; accept any answer which indicates cutting the corpus callosum; prompt on "lobotomy," "separating the hemispheres," or "epilepsy treatment"]
Answer some questions about the dysfunctional Neopets economy, for 10 points each.
The article "The Sinking Neopoint" estimates that almost a billion Neopoints enter the economy every day, leading to this phenomenon in which prices rise over time, making currency less valuable.
Due to tricks like auction sniping and the restocking of Draik eggs, this metric would be very high for the Neopets economy. This measure of income disparity equals the proportional area between the Lorenz curve and the 45 degree line.
The Neopets codestone market exhibits perfect competition, which means that sellers should shut down when the market price goes below this value. Unlike a similar curve, firms can operate above the U-shaped curve for this value in the long run, but will incur a loss.
inflation
Gini coefficient
average variable cost [or AVC; prompt on partial answer]
Identify some types of animals used in psychology research, for 10 points each.
John Watson conditioned Little Albert to fear one of these animals. Edward Tolman created his theory of cognitive maps while experimenting on how these animals run mazes.
Mary Cover Jones demonstrated counterconditioning by eliminating Little Peter's fear of one of these animals. A cutaneous effect named for this creature, discovered by Geldard and Sherrick, is caused by quick taps on different areas of skin.
Martin Seligman placed these animals in a shuttle box and applied electric shocks, demonstrating that they exhibit learned helplessness.
rats [do not accept "mice"]
rabbits [or cutaneous rabbit illusion]
dogs 
Cue the Schoolhouse Rock music and answer the following about debating a bill on the floor of Congress. For 10 points each:
When a bill goes to a vote on the floor, these officials are responsible for ensuring that party members attend and vote according to party policy. Steve Scalise and Steny Hoyer fill this role in the House of Representatives.
The House Committee on Rules issued a record number of this kind of rule in 2013, prohibiting amendments to a bill under consideration from the floor. In this kind of congressional session, the proceedings are confidential.
When the House and Senate versions of a bill differ, they set up this ad hoc panel in order to reconcile the differences in their bills before passing it and sending it to the President.
whips [accept House Majority Whip; accept House Minority Whip]
closed [accept closed rule; accept closed session; accept secret session]
joint conference committee 
This theory was tested by injecting subjects with the vitamin "Superoxin," which was really just adrenaline. For 10 points each:
This theory was tested by injecting subjects with the vitamin "Superoxin," which was really just adrenaline. For 10 points each:
With Carl Lange, this Harvard professor developed a model explaining emotions as reactions that follow after pure physical impulses. He also wrote Principles of Psychology.
Solomon and Corbit used this theory to explain how drug use becomes tied to emotional pleasure. It is based on, and named for, a theory that Ewald Hering derived for color vision.
Schachter two-factor theory of emotion [prompt on "Schachter"]
William James
opponent-process theory
This effect would be seen maximally if the LM curve were vertical, implying that increasing government spending only causes interest rates and not overall output to increase. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in which increasing interest rates caused by fiscal policy would cause a decrease in private sector investment.
Full crowding out is the opposite of a liquidity trap, in which this type of policy can't affect interest rates at all, and fiscal policy must be used. Milton Friedman said inflation is "always and everywhere" this type of phenomenon.
In order to control real interest rates, the Fed should obey this rule, which says that the nominal interest rate should cover any changes in inflation. It was named for a Stanford economist who formulated it in 1993
[missing]
monetary policy [accept "Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon"]
Taylor rule [or Taylor's principle, etc.]
Answer the following about common law, for 10 points each.
The common law doctrine of "coverture" applied to this relationship, making one party unable to own property. Historically, ending this relationship required showing of cause until the advent of "no-fault" legal processes.
The strongest obligation in many common law systems is this type of duty, in which the namesake person or company must prefer the interest of another party. Revlon was found to have violated it by accepting a white knight bid during a hostile takeover.
The common law doctrine of volenti non fit injuria applies in this area of civil law, preventing action when the plaintiff willingly accepted the possibility of harm. This area deals with wrongs like libel, slander, and trespass.
 marriage 
fudiciary duty 
tort law 
Christian von Ehrenfels wrote of the qualities of this school, whose law of pragnanz states that we tend to order our experiences in a regular and simple manner. For 10 points each:
Identify this German school of psychology, which was pioneered by Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Kohler, and Kurt Koffka. It emphasizes how people perceive wholes which are greater than the sum of their parts.
Many Gestalt psychologists studied this optical illusion involves perceiving motion when separate objects are viewed rapidly in succession. It is not to be confused with beta movement.
This German philosopher, who taught many members of the Gestalt school, worked on the psychology of tones, and debunked the case of Clever Hans, a horse allegedly capable of adding natural numbers.
Gestalt psychology
phi phenomenon
Carl Stumpf
The European type of these contracts can be exercised only on the expiration date, while the American type can be exercised on any date up the expiration date. For 10 points each:
Name these derivative contracts that include calls and puts. They give the buyer of the contract the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset in the future.
Options are valued using this mathematical model that won two of its creators the 1997 Nobel Prize in Economics. From it, one can derive a formula for option pricing using parameters like the current price of the underlying stock and the option's strike price.
This long options strategy requires one to purchase both a call and a put on the same asset, causing the payoff to increase when the asset price changes in either direction. Its payoff diagram takes the shape of a V.
option
Black-Scholes-Merton model
straddle 
In an article for The New Republic titled "Grammar Puss," this author attacked "language mavens" such as William Safire for overzealously insisting on prescriptive rules of language. For 10 points each:
Name this Harvard professor and author of How the Mind Works, who argued that the capacity for language is programmed into the human mind by evolution in The Language Instinct.
The Language Instinct popularized the theories of this MIT linguist. This author of Syntactic Structures argues that there is a universal grammar, a set of unconscious rules governing grammar in all human languages.
In How the Mind Works, Pinker argues that human reaction to this stimulus serves no adaptive purpose, and instead evolved as a by-product of things like language acquisition. In a metaphor, he likened it to cheesecake.
Steven Arthur Pinker
 Noam Chomsky
music [prompt on "art" or equivalents]
An 1898 essay criticizes this field for having a fixed and hedonistic view of human nature, arguing it should be an "evolutionary science." For 10 points each:
Name this field of study, which Lionel Robbins claimed "studies human behavior as a relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternative uses."
This man defined economics as "the ordinary business of everyday life" in his textbook Principles of Economics. This teacher of Keynes names a function that gives the utility maximizing consumption bundle for a given set of prices.
Marshall employed this type of analysis for studying supply and demand in his textbook. This analysis looks at only one market, treating all others as fixed.
economics
Alfred Marshall
partial equilibrium [do not accept "general equilibrium"]
The context-free variety of these systems can be modeled with a set of terminal and nonterminal symbols, a start symbol, and a set of production rules. For 10 points each:
Name these finite specifications of a language, whose rules can be used to generate a wide variety of strings out of a start symbol.
A probabilistic context-free grammar can be used to perform this process on a tree that attempts to map out the most likely syntactic structure of that string. This process's namesake tree, also called a derivation tree, branches out until the terminal words.
Parsing is considerably more simple if the grammar is a normal form named for this man, in which all rules are either terminal or binary rules. This MIT linguist also names a hierarchy of formal grammars.
grammars
parsing [or parse the tree]
Noam Chomsky [or Avram Noam Chomsky]
Antonio Damasio's somatic marker hypothesis describes how these mental states affect decision making. For 10 points each:
Identify these psychological states that the James-Lange theory argues correspond directly to physiological stimuli.
This theory combines the opposing James-Lange and Cannon-Bard theories of emotion, attributing it to both physiological state and external cues. Its two namesake researchers conducted studies injecting subjects with adrenaline.
Donald Dutton and Arthur Aron tested the Schacter-Singer theory by placing male subjects on one of these structures before having them speak to an attractive woman.
emotions [or word forms]
Schacter-Singer theory [or two-factor theory]
suspension bridge
In many economic growth models, the technology factor has this property that makes it differ from labor and capital. For 10 points each:
Name this property of goods where one person's consumption does not prevent consumption by another. It is not to be confused with non-excludability.
These types of goods are non-rival and non-excludable. They include services like policing that are usually provided by a government.
Public goods can fall victim to the free rider problem because it is difficult to make consumers pay this quantity. This quantity is the resources expended in producing one additional unit of the good. In a competitive market it equals price.
non-rivalry
public goods
marginal cost [do not accept "average cost"]
Spirit Airlines successfully accused Northwest Airlines of this practice in the Detroit market. For 10 points each:
Name this practice of selling goods below cost in order to force another firm out of the market. The "theory of the long purse" was an early explanation for it.
Firms use predatory pricing to maintain this type of market, where there is only one seller.
Natural monopolies may exist when the industry displays this feature, in which long-run average costs are decreasing up to a quantity that exceeds market demand.
predatory pricing
monopoly [do not accept "oligopoly"]
economies of scale [do not accept "economies of scope"]
Unlike its predecessors, this book ditched its multi-axis format and it now recognizes hoarding as an obsessive-compulsive disorder. For 10 points each:
Name this manual published by the American Psychiatric Association in 2013 that provides criteria for the diagnosis of mental disorders.
The DSM-5 dropped all subclasses of this disorder. Waxy flexibility is a symptom of the "catatonic" type of this disorder, though most patients exhibit its "paranoid" type.
Medications such as clozapine treat schizophrenia by blocking receptors of this neurotransmitter whose precursor is L-dopa.
DSM-5 [Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition; prompt on DSM]
schizophrenia
dopamine
This practice requires "unconditional positive regard" and "empathetic understanding," and was outlined in the book On Becoming a Person. For 10 points each:
Identify this specific type of therapy treatment developed by Carl Rogers that stresses complete openness towards a patient.
This therapeutic method openly exposes patients to their fears. For example, if a patient fears spiders, they will be locked in a room full of spiders until they relax.
This slower form of therapy approaches fear in a hierarchal pattern. For example, the patient may be asked to talk about spiders, then watch a video on spiders, and finally hold a spider.
client-centered therapy [or person-centered therapy]
flooding
systematic desensitization [or graduated exposure therapy; or immersion therapy]
The syllable-coda /r/ in this phrase was found to be pronounced with greater frequency when subjects were prompted to repeat this phrase a second time. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word phrase which was pronounced differently by employees at Saks, Macy's, and S. Klein in a 1966 experiment by William Labov (luh-BOHV).
The /r/ in "fourth floor" was most often omitted by S. Klein employees, who spoke a dialect low in this level of respect or social status merited by a certain language.
This country's Received Pronunciation dialect of English has higher prestige than regional dialects such as Cockney.
"fourth floor"
prestige
United Kingdom [or United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; or England; or Great Britain]
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Arthur Keith are among the suspects as the perpetrator of this hoax. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropological hoax, where Charles Dawson attempted to present a 600-year-old human skull attached to an orangutan jaw as the "missing link" between humans and apes.
The controversy over Piltdown Man started after Raymond Dart attempted to present a skull as a human ancestor. The skull was found in this South African town, whose name translates as "place of the lion."
Dart coined this genus' name for the "Taung child" skull. The species of this genus, such as afarensis and africanus, lived from 1.1 to 4.3 million years ago.
Piltdown forgery [or Piltdown hoax; or Piltdown Man forgery; or Piltdown Man hoax]
Taung [or Taung child]
Australopithecus
A patient of this man once recalled his bedroom window opening on its own, and seeing a pack of white wolves outside. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who envisioned looking at another of his patients at a formal party and seeing large white patches in her mouth after a botched surgery.
The aforementioned patient was given this alias by Freud. Freud dreamt about his friend Otto giving this woman her namesake propyl "injection."
"Irma's Injection" is a section of this book in which Freud describes dreams as "the royal road to the unconscious."
Sigmund Freud [or Sigmund Schlomo Freud]
Irma [or Irma's injection]
The Interpretation of Dreams
Answer the following about the field of historical linguistics, for 10 points each.
Because they can be traced back to a common ancestor, Spanish, Swedish, Farsi, and Hindi are all members of this large language family prominent in its two namesake regions.
Grimm's law describes a set of sound changes in the proto-language of this family, whose namesake "umlaut" is the process in which vowels became fronted before the phoneme /i/ ("eeh").
This technique uses a feature-by-feature comparison of multiple related languages to produce a reconstruction of their ancestral language.
Indo-European languages [do not accept "Proto-Indo-European"]
Germanic languages [do not accept "German"]
comparative method
Marshall Sahlins resigned from the National Academy of Sciences in protest of this man's induction. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial anthropologist best known for his 1967 study Yanomamo: The Fierce People, which argued that violence among those indigenous peoples served as a form of social evolution.
The Yanomamo live in the rainforest located within the main basin of this South American river that is mostly in Brazil.
Chagnon made a 1975 film about the Yanomamo which is widely screened in anthropology classes. Showing a ten minute long battle featuring clubs and machetes, the film is named for this other weapon used during the fight.
Napoleon Alphonseau Chagnon
Amazon River
ax [or The Ax Fight]
This thinker established NYU's program in media ecology, a term he coined. For 10 points each:
Name this scholar who wrote about "the surrender of culture to technology" in Technopoly, and who altered another thinker's wording to say "the medium is the metaphor" in his book Amusing Ourselves to Death.
This Canadian intellectual coined the phrase "the medium is the message" in his book Understanding Media. He defined media by their level of viewer participation as "hot" or "cool."
McLuhan described the social changes brought on by this man's development of the printing press in Europe in a book about this man's "galaxy."
Neil Postman
Marshall McLuhan
Johannes Gutenberg [or Johann Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg]
Participants in this study were pre-teen boys divided into two teams named "The Rattlers" and "The Eagles." For 10 points each:
Name this experiment that observed the growing hostility between two Boy Scout camps. It was set at a state park in Oklahoma.
This conductor of the Robbers Cave study argued that the Rattlers and Eagles would settle their differences to work towards a larger goal or fight a common enemy.
The camps frequently competed in this activity. The Rattlers accused the Eagles of cheating in this game after they sat down and dug their heels into the ground.
Robbers Cave study
Muzafer Sherif
tug-of-war [or obvious equivalents such as rope-pulling]
This man resigned from Stanford after being ridiculed for his boring teaching style and womanizing ways. For 10 points each:
Name this Wisconsin born sociologist who analyzed the behavior of elites in his book The Theory of the Leisure Class.
Veblen was one of the academics who founded this university located in Greenwich Village, New York. This progressive friendly university was founded by several former Columbia professors, and its graduate division was once known as the University in Exile.
In The Theory of the Leisure Class, Veblen uses this two-word term to refer to the rising upper class's attempt to equal or surpass the wealth of others. The second chapter of the book focuses on this term, whose first word refers to money-related factors.
Thorstein Veblen [or Torsten Veblen]
The New School [or the New School for Social Research; or the New School University]
pecuniary emulation
A study done on this group involved a checkered floor with Plexiglas suspended over a four-foot drop, and was a test on depth perception. For 10 points each:
Identify this group of people who participated in Eleanor Gibson's visual cliff experiment.
In another study, children were shown videos of adults beating up these inflatable toys. After watching the videos, children acted violently towards these toys.
This Stanford professor conducted the bobo doll experiment.
infants [or obvious equivalents, such as toddlers or children]
bobo dolls
Albert Bandura
These features are kept safe by an "intricate . . . network of voluntary controls" enforced by the people themselves. For 10 points each:
Name these geographic features described as crucial to urban safety in a 1961 book that mentions their "intricate ballet." These features promote overall safety by supporting greater surveillance and personal interactions.
That book that praises sidewalks is The Death and Life of Great American Cities, a work by this female urban theorist and critic of New York's urban-planning policies.
Jacobs lived in this neighborhood in Manhattan, which she defended from urban-renewal attempts. It was a major capital of the Beat and Bohemian countercultures during the 1950s and 1960s.
sidewalks
Jane Jacobs [or Jane Butzner]
Greenwich Village [prompt on The Village]
A red herring prospectus, as part of a company's IPO, is filed in this agency's EDGAR system. For 10 points each:
Name this US agency that enforces rules regulating markets, secondary trading, and its namesake financial assets, unlike the Federal Trade Commission.
Google's IPO listed its shares using this type of auction in which the initial price is progressively lowered until a bidder offers to buy. The Aalsmeer Flower Auction uses this auction method that was popularized during a 17-century tulip boom.
In this truthful single-item sealed-bid auction mechanism, the highest bidder wins the item but pays the second-highest bid. It can be generalized for multiple items in a method named after its namesake, Clarke, and Groves.
Securities and Exchange Commission [or SEC]
Dutch auction
Vickrey auction
These contracts allow, but do not require, one party to buy or sell something at the strike price. For 10 points each:
Name this type of financial contract, which is typically divided into "call" and "put" varieties.
This model uses a stochastic differential equation to determine the appropriate premium for a call option. Robert Merton, who independently derived it, shared the 1997 Nobel Prize in Economics with one of its developers.
One of the assumptions of the Black-Scholes model is that the option is of this type, which allows the buyer to purchase or sell an asset only on the day the option expires.
options
Black-Scholes model [or Black and Scholes; or the names in reverse order]
European option
This man was the uncle of Marcel Mauss. For 10 points each:
Name this French sociologist who penned The Rules of Sociological Method as well as a seminal study on suicide. 
Durkheim's study on suicide concluded that higher social control among this religious subgroup resulted in a lower suicide rate than other faiths. 
Durkheim described this type of suicide as taking place when people felt excessively regulated or oppressed. This type of suicide frequently takes place in prisons where people can no longer take abuse. 
David Emile Durkheim
Roman Catholics [prompt on Christians] 
fatalistic suicide
Franklin Fisher showed that conditions under which these functions exist are so stringent as to be unlikely. For 10 points each: 
Name these functions that map the total amount of capital and labor in an economy to its output. 
In Capital in the 21st Century, Thomas Piketty argues that this value in the production function is greater than one. When this curvature of the isoquant is high, it is easy to switch from labor to capital in production. 
The Cobb-Douglas production function displays this property if the sum of the exponents equals one. When all factors are multiplied by the same number, the output is multiplied by that number. 
aggregate production function
elasticity of substitution between labor and capital 
constant returns to scale 
Opportunities for this activity are often quickly eliminated through price convergence.
Name this economic activity which involves taking advantage of a simultaneous price difference for a single product in two or more markets.
Theoretically, arbitrage is free of this. This is the chance that the actual return from an investment will be different than expected, and its namesake "aversion" describes an agent's behavior in response to uncertainty
Along with Samuelson and Merton, this Nobelist created the first attempt at computerized arbitrage trading. He introduced Modern Portfolio Theory, or MPT, which attempts to maximize return for a given amount of risk.
arbitrage
risk
Harry Markowitz
Answer some questions about indifference curves.
Each point on an indifference curve represents a set of goods that have an equal amount of this for the customer. The law of diminishing marginal this suggests that each additional unit of a good imparts less of this.
These types of goods have L-shaped indifference curves, meaning that the marginal rate of substitution is either infinite or zero.
This utility function is of form U(x, y) equals x to the power of a, times y to the power of 1-a. It shares a name with a production function that takes the product of factor inputs raised to the power of their elasticities.
utility
perfect complements [do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Cobb-Douglas
One work by this author analyzed Australian Aboriginal cults and the Pueblo rain dance.
Name this French sociologist who analyzed four different varieties of suicide in one work and outlined his theory of religion in The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life.
This 1893 work by Durkheim examines the transition from "primitive" to modern industrialized societies. It draws a distinction between "mechanical" and "organic" solidarity.
In The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life, Durkheim coined this term to describe the unifying "spark" that occurs when the members of a society come together in a religious ritual.
Ã‰mile Durkheim
The Division of Labor in Society
collective effervescence [do NOT accept "collective unconscious" or "collective conscious"]
This branch of a larger language family is subdivided into Ingvaeonic, Istvaeonic, and Irminonic.
Name this branch of Germanic languages that includes Frisian and English. The southern parts of the dialect continuum containing this branch underwent the High German consonant shift.
This High German language is the source of many fun loanwords like chutzpah and goy. It is historically spoken by Ashkenazi Jews.
This Scandinavian language uses a 29-letter orthography and is not mutually intelligible with Danish, Norwegian, or Swedish. This language supplanted Danish in its home area in the mid-20th century in its namesake "language conflict."
West Germanic
Yiddish
Faroese
Writers who study the aftereffects of this process include Frantz Fanon and Edward Said, and Jurgen Osterhammel wrote a "theoretical overview" of it.
Name this form of imperialism in which a powerful country expands its reach by taking over land from other nations.
A postcolonial form of this discipline was advanced in the essay "Under Western Eyes" by Chandra Mohanty. The SCUM manifesto was a key document in its "radical" form.
This Indian author of "Can the Subaltern speak" is a member of the postcolonialist Subaltern Studies Group. Her other works include "A Critique of Postcolonial Reason" and "Death of a Discipline."
colonialism [or colonization]
feminism
Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak
Commonwealth v. John Rex found that this genre did not include National Geographic magazines and sociology textbooks.
Name this type of media which provided much of the battleground between second- and third-wave feminists. Andrea Dworkin claims that this genre is rooted in male dominance and is inherently damaging to women.
In her book Only Words, this strongly anti-pornography feminist argues that the U.S. legal system has historically used the First Amendment to defend porn content by defining it as defamation, not discrimination.
In R v. Butler, the Supreme Court of this country relied on Mackinnon's arguments against pornography in its definition of obscenity.
pornography [prompt on "erotica" or "obscenity"]
Catharine MacKinnon
Canada
This process often involves reward and punishment. For 10 points each:
Name this learning process in which consequences encourage or discourage behavior. It is often contrasted with its "classical" form.
Operant conditioning was first extensively studied by this man, who examined the attempts of cats to escape from boxes. He termed it the "law of effect."
B.F. Skinner created this model, which says a discriminative stimulus sets the occasion for a response and an appropriate reinforcement. The presence of the stimulus sets it apart from theories based on pairwise associations.
operant conditioning [or Skinnerian conditioning or instrumental learning]
Edward L. Thorndike
three-term contingency
He wrote Adolescent Aggression and investigated fear arousal in snake-phobics for another work. For 10 points each:
Name this Stanford psychologist most famous for an experiment involving a Bobo doll in which children observed adult models yelling things like "kick him" and "throw him in the air!"
Bandura wrote an analysis of aggression named for this concept. According to this theory, people acquire new behaviors through modeling and vicarious reinforcement.
Another social learning experiment was portrayed in a commercial for the Carlsberg beer company. It featured 148 tough-looking bikers in this kind of place.
Albert Bandura
social learning theory
movie theater [or cinema]
Name the following cognitive biases from examples, for 10 points each:
Subjects were shown pro-Castro or anti-Castro essays. Despite being told that the stance of the essays had been decided randomly, subjects were more likely to believe that pro-Castro authors personally felt more positively about Castro.
Subjects were asked whether Mahatma Gandhi died before or after age 9, or before or after age 140. Subjects in the first group tended to give significantly lower answers than those in the second group.
Subjects were given a brief test, then given a list describing their personality supposedly based on the results. Despite being given the same list, all students felt that the list accurately described their unique personalities.
fundamental attribution error [or correspondence bias or attribution effect; prompt on "actor-observer bias"]
anchoring [or focalism]
Barnum effect [or Forer effect]
The subject of this work was the product of a union between a Revolutionary War hero and a barmaid he cheated on his wife with. For 10 points each:
Name this book by Henry H. Goddard about the pedigree of a woman living in the New Jersey Home for the Education and Care of Feebleminded Children.
The Kallikak Family was one of several works in the early 20th century that advocated this social philosophy, the selective breeding out and elimination of detrimental traits. It was of course terribly racist.
This Victorian-era statistician invented the term eugenics. He also observed the idea of "regression to the mean" and was the first to use the phrase "nature versus nurture."
The Kallikak Family: A Study in the Heredity of Feeble-Mindedness
eugenics
Sir Francis Galton
An example of one of these conditions is one in the Hmong (mong) that causes sudden death while sleeping, and "fan death" among Koreans. For 10 points each:
Name these mental conditions that are recognized only within specific societies.
Culture-bound syndromes occupy a section of the fourth edition of this manual of mental illnesses, whose fifth edition was published somewhat recently.
Another culture-bound syndrome is this one, common in Western Asia, which can be fended off by a charm called a nazar. Among Muslims, it is fended off by saying "praise God" in response to a compliment.
culture-bound syndromes [or culture-specific syndrome or folk illness]
DSM [or Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders]
evil eye [accept ayn al-hasud]
This model claims that suspension of convertibility is not the best way to prevent a bank run. For 10 points:
Name this mathematical model which shows how banks' mixture of liquid and illiquid assets can lead to runs among depositors. It describes banking as a situation with more than one Nash equilibrium.
This practice refers to banks holding currency reserves that are less than their total deposit liabilities. It allows the bank to act as a lender while providing its creditors with some immediate liquidity.
Central banks often encourage banks to retain a certain proportion of their liabilities in reserves by manipulating this value. The Fed has been keeping this value low to encourage spending over saving.
the Diamond-Dybvig model
fractional-reserve banking
interest rates
Asymmetric information, commitment problems, and issue indivisibilities are the three "rationalist" explanations proposed by James Fearon to explain the occurrence this phenomenon.  For 10 points each:
Identify this phenomenon that may be the outcome of escalation from a crisis. The "Correlates of [this phenomenon]" project has a 1,000 battle-death threshold for defining the "interstate" variety of them.
This type of war occurs when a state declining in relative power chooses to challenge a state rising in power before the rising state gets more powerful. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor followed this type of logic.
In contrast to a preventive war, this type of war is initiated to spoil an attack thought to be imminent rather than a long-term future threat. The 6-Day War is often cited as an example of this type of war.
war
preventive or preventative war
pre-emptive war [accept word forms like pre-emption]
These entities must be equal to the sum of liabilities and equity. For 10 points each:
Name these accounts which refer to resources or the right to future benefits for a firm. Examples include cash and inventory.
Equity includes additional paid-in capital and this account, which refers to the nominal price of a stock. This value often differs highly from the actual price at which the stock was issued.
Increases in assets are listed under this term. Conversely, it indicates decreases in liabilities and in equity.
assets
par value
debit [or dr]
Answer the following about the book Thinking, Fast and Slow. For 10 points each:
It was written by this economist, who devised prospect theory along with Amos Tversky.
Kahneman's prospect theory deals with decision-making under this condition. This term generally describes the uncertain possibility of losing something by entering a transaction.
Thinking, Fast and Slow discusses this effect, proposed by Roy Baumeister, in which exercising self-control requires one to use a finite amount of mental energy and fatigues them so that they are less likely to exercise self-control later.
Daniel Kahneman
risk
ego depletion
This thought experiment involves a druggist who discovers a new cancer fighting drug and marks up the price one thousand percent. For 10 points each:
Name this thought experiment in which the namesake man must decide to break into the druggist's store and steal the drug to save his wife.
Heinz's dilemma was formulated by this American psychologist, who formulated a namesake theory of stages of moral development.
The fifth stage of Kohlberg's theory involves viewing morality as one of these constructs. Jean-Jacques Rousseau claimed "man is born free, but everywhere he is in chains" in a book titled for these constructs.
Heinz's dilemma
Lawrence Kohlberg
social contracts
Some of the participants in this experiment developed permanent speech disorders later in life. For 10 points each:
Name this study conducted by Wendell Johnson at the University of Iowa, in which he took two groups of orphans and gave positive speech therapy to one and negative speech therapy to the other.
This later American psychologist was well known for performing horrible experiments on rhesus monkeys, using devices like the "rape rack."
Harlow coined the term for this device of his, also called a "vertical chamber apparatus." It isolated individual monkeys from outside contact and had a pyramidal top to prevent them from hanging or doing any number of normal monkey activities.
Monster Study
Harry Harlow
the "pit of despair"
This linguist played a major role in African American Vernacular English being accepted as a rule-governed variety of English. For 10 points each:
Name this sociolinguist, who conducted a pioneering study on the social stratification of English in New York City, in which he elicited the phrase "fourth floor" from workers at different department stores.
Labov's influential MA thesis was on sound change in the variety of English spoken on this island, including the centralization of the diphthongs /au/ ("ow") and /ai/ ("eye").
The large deaf population in Martha's Vineyard led to the development of an example of this type of language. A common example of this type of language is ASL.
William Labov
Martha's Vineyard
signed language
As an example of this term, its coiner described a bank run by people seeing many others at a bank and assuming the worst. For 10 points each:
Name this term which describes how false beliefs lead to actions on that belief that result in the original belief being made true.
The idea of the "self-fulfilling prophecy" was first introduced in Social Theory and Social Structure, a book by this sociologist. He also coined the terms "unintended consequences" and "role model."
Merton also did pioneering work in the sociology of science, for which he developed four "norms" of scientific research that are referred to collectively by this five letter acronym.
self-fulfilling prophecy
Robert King Merton
CUDOS [or Communalism, Universalism, Disinterestedness, Organized Skepticism]
The "real" version of these quantities are usually used to calculate Purchasing Power Parity. For 10 points each:
Give the common term for the rate of interconvertibility between currencies. For converting dollars to euros, this quantity has decreased to around 1.25 as of late 2014.
According to a rule of thumb in finance, an arbitrage profit can be made if the expected rate of change in the exchange rate between two countries is not equal to the difference between this quantity for the countries.
Interest rate parity is called "covered" if one of these contracts has been agreed upon in order to cover exchange rate risk. These contracts are agreements to conduct an exchange at a specified future time and price.
foreign-exchange rates [or FX rates]
interest rates [prompt on "i"]
forward contract [do not accept "future" or "futures contract"]
This economist's namesake law describes the rationale for competitors making their products as similar as possible and is also known as the principle of minimum differentiation. For 10 points each:
Name this American economist and statistician, the namesake of a T-squared distribution.
Hotelling's lemma is applied in the economic study of these entities. The entities were analyzed in an influential 1937 paper by Coase that claimed they came about out of a need to minimize transaction costs.
This other economist studied statistics under Hotelling at Columbia University. He came up with the permanent income hypothesis and wrote Capitalism and Freedom.
Harold Hotelling
firms
Milton Friedman
This work posits a U-shaped curve that describes people as having the most freedom when they are babies and when they are old. For 10 points each:
Name this study of Japanese culture written during World War II by Ruth Benedict.
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword classifies Japan as this type of culture, in which social order is maintained by disgrace of an individual for their wrongdoing.
The study also analyzes this Japanese concept of "duty" or "obligation" that arises through social interactions with others.
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword
shame culture
giri
This system was adapted to write the Hittite language. For 10 points each:
Name this early wedge-shaped writing system developed in Sumer and used for Akkadian, Assyrian, and Babylonian.
The Amarna Letters are unusual for being written in Akkadian cuneiform, despite many of them being from this polity's Eighteenth Dynasty-ruler Akhenaten.
If you were to actually read the Amarna Letters, you would often run across this cuneiform sign, which functions more or less as a prefix meaning "God." In Akkadian, it corresponds more or less to the Semitic prefix "il" or "el," which became "Allah."
cuneiform
New Kingdom [prompt on "Egypt"]
DINGIR [or AN; prompt on "D"]
This man's publication of "Experimental Studies of the Perception of Movement" led to the founding of the school he is associated with. For 10 points each:
Name this co-founder of Gestalt psychology who first defined the phi phenomenon.
This American Gestalt psychologist conducted impression experiments, as well as a notable experiment studying conformity in which subjects had to estimate the lengths of lines.
Asch studied the suggestion of this characteristic in an experiment that attributed a quotation inciting rebellion to either Vladimir Lenin or Thomas Jefferson. Max Weber wrote that social stratification took the form of power, property, and this characteristic.
Max Wertheimer
Solomon Asch
prestige [prompt on "reputation"; accept status]
Kurt Schneider developed a system of classifying symptoms associated with this disorder. For 10 points each:
Name this disorder that comes in catatonic, disorganized, and paranoid types. It is characterized by an inability to recognize what is real.
People with schizophrenia can suffer from this symptom "of control," whereby they believe that someone else is controlling them. People with this symptom express closely held beliefs which are contradicted by reality.
This American psychologist and developer of the "self-system" explored the disorder in his 1962 book Schizophrenia as a Human Process.
schizophrenia
delusions [or paranoid delusions]
Harry Stack Sullivan
Answer the following about certain terms from all areas of law. For 10 points each:
This term describes the area of law which deals with civil wrongs that cause individual loss, such as assault, battery, or slander.
Criminal actions require proof of this element, which describes the intention of the perpetrator at the time the action was committed. It is translated as "guilty mind" in English.
This term refers to the act of a party attempting to have its case heard within a jurisdiction that will provide it with a favorable outcome.
torts
mens rea
forum shopping
[missing]
Name this power of storing and retrieving information which has "long term" and "short term" varieties.
These vivid and resilient memories are caused by shocking events, such as the assassination of JFK or the 9/11 attacks.
Endel Tulving proposed the widely accepting division of memory into semantic memory and this kind, which is the recall of facts and events personal to oneself.
memory
flashbulb memory
episodic memory
[missing]
Name this disorder that can lead to persistent anxiety and disruptive flashbacks as the result of surviving a disturbing event. In the US, this disorder is particularly prominent among Vietnam veterans.
The DSM-V added a subtype of PTSD described by this adjective, which refers to conditions that result in depersonalization or derealization. It also names a class of anesthetic hallucinogens including PCP and ketamine.
"Mean world syndrome," in which people who are exposed to this stimulus think the world is more dangerous, has been blamed on a type of PTSD. George Gerbner's "cultivation theory" studies its long term effects.
PTSD [or posttraumatic stress disorder, or shell shock]
dissociative [accept word forms]
television [accept violence in television]
[missing]
Name this technique which demonstrates brain activity by contrasting oxygen rich blood with oxygen poor blood and which is usually presented by color coding an image of the different parts of the brain.
One fMRI study showed that people with the developmental form of this condition did not fully engage in scene construction. Patients with its retrograde or anterograde forms suffer from memory loss.
An alternative to fMRI is this imaging technology, which uses SQUID sensors to measure the magnetic fields given off by tens of thousands of neurons. Unlike fMRI, its timing measurements have sub-millisecond precision.
fMRI [or functional magnetic resonance imaging or functional MRI; prompt on "MRI" or "magnetic resonance imaging"]
amnesia
MEG [or Magnetoencephalography]
This economist blamed rampant speculation for Black Thursday in The Great Crash, 1929, and warned about the dominant nature of massive firms in The New Industrial State. For 10 points each:
Name this advisor to John F. Kennedy who included the chapter "The Marxian Pall" in another book.
Galbraith described himself as a follower of this British economist who argued for strong government spending during recessions in The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
Galbraith argued that organizations like labor unions provide an important check on the dominance of the industrial state, an example of this two word concept. It subtitles his book American Capitalism.
John Kenneth Galbraith
John Maynard Keynes
"countervailing power"
[missing]
This term, also called "loan translation," refers to phrases directly translated from the original language, with the result often making less sense in the target language. English ones include "moment of truth" and "flea market."
Multilingual speakers perform this action when they alternate between multiple languages in a single conversation or sentence.
These are languages that develop between groups that do not speak the same language. They can become creoles if they are learned as a first language by a new generation.
calques
code-switching
pidgins
This strategy opens by cooperating and then mimics the response of its opponent on each subsequent iteration. For 10 points each:
Name this strategy developed by Anatol Rapoport.
Rapoport coded the "tit for tat" strategy for a pair of Robert Axelrod tournaments on this game. In it, two criminals decide whether to inform on each other or keep their mouths shut.
The Prisoner's Dilemma was originally postulated by scientists working for this think tank. It was originally created by the Douglas Aircraft Company to research matters of national security.
tit for tat
Prisoner's Dilemma
RAND Corporation [or Research and Development Corporation]
[missing]
Name this economist whose "law" explaining the lack of product differentiation is often illustrated through the example of two ice cream vendors on a beach.
Hotelling's law is frequently applied to these market forms, which are dominated by a small number of sellers. Bertrand's model describes them. 
Because of the kinked demand curve frequently associated with oligopolies, they can have prices with this property. Prices with this property are resistant to change.
Harold Hotelling
oligopoly
sticky [or stickiness]
[missing]
Name this class of sounds formed by closing or narrowing the vocal tract. Along with vowels they make up the main sounds formed in language.
This class of consonants, also known as spirants, is formed by blocking the airstream without completely closing it, causing turbulent airflow. Examples in English include the "f" in "fine" and the "v" in "vine."
These consonants are formed by touching the tongue to a namesake ridge behind the teeth on the roof of the mouth. In English they include the "d" in "dot" and the "n" in "nail."
consonants
fricatives
alveolar consonants
[missing]
Identify this psychological labeling error which can make a person who is excited due to fear expresses greater romantic or sexual interest than he otherwise would.
The classic experiment on misattribution of arousal had a female researcher give out her phone number to men who had just used either a faulty or sturdy one of these items.
Misattribution of arousal is part of the "two-factor" model of these things, developed by Schacter and Singer.
misattribution of arousal
bridge
emotions
[missing]
Name this doctrine with "conflict" and "field" varieties. It holds a state law is invalid when it conflicts with Federal law.
The preemption doctrine derives from this clause of Article VI of the Constitution, which places "This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States" above state law.
In August of 2013 the Justice Department announced it would not bring preemption cases against state laws regarding this substance, which is now legal in Washington and Colorado.
Federal preemption
Supremacy Clause [or Article 6 Section 2]
marijuana [accept equivalents]
[missing]
Identify this usually-concave graph from economics, the most famous example of which plots guns versus butter.
When the marginal rate of transformation is equal to all marginal rates of substitution, the PPF exhibits this optimality, which is named for an Italian economist and in which no individual can be made better off without making another individual worse off.
The PPF can be derived by plotting the outputs of the two involved firms on one of these constructs, a plot of the set of Pareto-optimal allocations contained in an Edgeworth box.
the production possibilities frontier [or production possibilities curve; or production possibilities boundary; or PPF; or PPC; or PPB]
Pareto efficiency [or Pareto optimality]
a contract curve
[missing]
This man's Rules of the Sociological Method outlines his ideas on "social fact." The also wrote The Division of Labor in Society and Suicide.
This author of Distinction developed the concepts of cultural capital and habitus.
This Marxist divided "space" into the perceived, the conceived, and the lived, in his book The Production of Space.
Emile Durkheim
Pierre Bourdieu
Henri LefÃ¨bvre
[missing]
This book by Randy Shilts traces the history of the AIDS epidemic, and lambastes the government for its failure to stop the spread of the disease.
This 1890 photojournalistic study of the New York City poor was one of the earliest works of what would be later dubbed "muckracker journalism."
Upton Sinclair wrote this 1906 novel which exposed the shocking disregard for worker well-being and hygienic practices in the meat-packing industry.
And the Band Played On: Politics, People, and the AIDS Epidemic
How the Other Half Lives: Studies among the Tenements of New York
The Jungle
[missing]
Name this type of optical illusion in which pulsing images create a sensation of movement. It was first defined by Max Wertheimer.
Max Wertheimer was one of the founders of this school of psychology that emphasized that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.
This other tenet of Gestalt states that items in close proximity tend to be perceived together.
phi phenomenon
Gestalt
past experience principle [or the law of past experience] 
[missing]
Name these contracts in which one party pays for the opportunity to buy from the other or sell to the other at a set price for a period of time.
Two answers required. These are the names given to the two general kinds of options, one an option to sell and one an option to buy.
The binomial option pricing model is often used in the pricing of this kind of option, which can be exercised at any point before the expiration date. 
option contracts [or options]
call option and put option [accept in either order]
American style options
[missing]
Name this identity category, a set of social roles put on people based on their biological sex.
Butler argued that gender had this quality, by which gender roles are created by repeated patterns of outwardly-visible action. Per Butler, this property of gender becomes visible in drag shows.
This concept, discussed by contemporary gender theorist Julia Kristeva in The Powers of Horror, is the space between, or loss of distinction between, subject and other. It is outside the symbolic order.
gender role
performativity [or being performative; accept answers such as "it is performed" or "people perform gender"; prompt on synonyms such as "acted"]
abjection [or the abject]
[missing]
Name this cognitive bias which suggests people will latch onto the first piece of information in making a decision, interpreting subsequent data around it.
Research into anchoring was pioneered by this psychologist who wrote Thinking Fast and Slow and developed prospect theory with Amos Tversky.
Early in his career Kahneman showed that this body dilates more when people do more difficult tasks. This part of the eye is in the center of the iris and also dilates or contracts in response to certain drugs.
anchoring [or focalism]
Daniel Kahneman
pupil
[missing]
Identify this term coined by Herbert Blumer, a theoretical approach largely developed by George Herbert Mead which holds that meaning is derived from experiences people have with others in society.
Two answers required. Mead came up with a way to differentiate the socialized and active aspects of a person by using these two pronouns that one commonly uses to refer to oneself in the first person.
Symbolic interactionism influenced this classic book in sociology of knowledge, co-written by Peter Berger and Thomas Luckmann. It describes the process of institutionalization of reciprocal interactions between people.
symbolic interactionism [accept word forms and prompt on a partial answer]
I and me [accept in either order]
The Social Construction of Reality
William Labov found that the use of the final or pre-consonantal "r" was a prestige or class marker among speakers of this language who worked in department stores. 
Name this language whose dialects include Yat and Cockney.
Labov was a champion of the idea that this American sociolect is not substandard, but rather constitutes its own variety with its own grammatical rules. This sociolect, common in many inner cities, has features like the habitual "be" and the use of "finna" to mark the irrealis mood.
Alan C. S. Ross made, and Nancy Mitford popularized, a distinction between two forms of British English. One was spoken by the upper class, while the other was spoken by the aspiring upper middle class, who often used fancier words. Name both forms.
English
African-American Vernacular English [or Black English Vernacular, or other clear equivalents; grudgingly accept Ebonics] 
U and Non-U
So what makes government corruption so bad anyway? Let's take a look at its economic effects, 
Bribes can prevent politicians from dealing with these problems. Remedying these problems efficiently involves bringing marginal social costs in line with marginal private costs.
Embezzlement of public funds is usually inefficient because politicians, typically being well-off, have a lower value of the "marginal" variety of this quantity than your typical citizen.
This economist noted that research on South Asian corruption seemed taboo in his Asian Drama. This author of Rich Lands and Poor worked with Ralph Bunche on one of his major studies.
negative externalities [prompt on "externalities"]
utility
Gunnar Myrdal
This man argued that the growth of bureaucratic, rational management would trap people in an "iron cage" and that modernity is characterized by disenchantment. 
Name this sociologist who argued that the use of worldly success as a sign of being saved helped spur the development of capitalism in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
In this work, Weber outlined three grounds for legitimate authority based on charisma, tradition, and law, and claimed that the state was an institution with a monopoly on the legitimate use of force.
Weber's anti-positivism led him to embrace this interpretive process of understanding and relating to cultural actions from the actors' own point of view. It's German for "to understand."
Karl Emil Maximilian "Max" Weber
Politics as a Vocation [or Politik als Beruf]
Verstehen
This psychologist described how early language problems predicted the severity of a condition first described by his mentor Leo Kanner. 
Name this psychologist who performed the first random controlled trials in child psychiatry. His trials discovered that tranquilizers were ineffective in treating anxiety disorders, but that stimulants such as Ritalin could treat ADD.
That aforementioned condition was this one, characterized by repetitive or restrictive actions, such as stereotypy or ritualistic behavior. In the DSM-5, Asperger syndrome was subsumed into the "spectrum disorder" named for this disease.
Kanner first formulated the bogus "refrigerator mother" theory of autism that was popularized by this UChicago psychologist, who analyzed fairy tales in Freudian terms in The Uses of Enchantment.
Leon Eisenberg
autism [or autism spectrum disorder]
Bruno Bettelheim
The author of this work believed that introducing concepts such as religion or the soul to children before they have reached adolescence would be a bad idea, since they wouldn't be able to understand it. 
Name this treatise on the education of children into ideal citizens who retain their innate goodness. Its second book explains that interaction with the world is a key component of education.
This author of Emile claimed that small city-states were the best places for freedom to flourish in his political treatise The Social Contract.
Another thinker who wrote about education is Paulo Freire. This work of critical pedagogy by Freire argues that education can help shape students and society through conscientization, and advocates dialogics as a tool to achieve freedom.
Emile, or On Education [or Ã‰mile, Or Treatise on Education; or Ã‰mile, ou De l'Ã©ducation]
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
Pedagogy of the Oppressed [or Pedagogia di Oprimido]
The couple who wrote this book divided social life into six parts, including "Getting a Living" and "Making a Home." 
Name this 1924 "Study in Modern American Culture" carried out by Robert and Helen Lynd in Muncie, Indiana, which they assigned the namesake pseudonym.
Middletown in Transition was published after Robert Lynd returned to Muncie in 1935 to study the effects of this era of economic hardship, which began with the 1929 stock market crash.
Among the Lynds' findings in Muncie was that this product had ushered in a new era of sexual relations.
Middletown: A Study in Modern American Culture
Great Depression
cars [accept equivalents such as automobiles]
Answer some questions about tort law, 
Tort law and the law of these entities both usually involve duties that may be breached. They differ in that these entities involve a formal agreement, either written or oral, between two or more parties.
This common tort concerns harm caused by failure to exercise a reasonable degree of care. It involves proving that the defendant had a duty of care to the claimant that was breached.
Translating as "the thing speaks for itself," this doctrine implies that the very nature of an incident can sometimes be used to prove breach of duty of care.
contracts
negligence
res ipsa loquitur
Name some social scientists who wrote about violence, 
This thinker used the term "symbolic violence" to denote unconscious forms of dominance that maintain social hierarchies in works like Distinction. He used the term "habitus" to refer to the modes of being people take on in different fields.
This author of Society Against the State and ethnographer of the AchÃ© people wrote Archaeology of Violence, in which he decried archaeologists' identification of violence with war.
This psycholinguist argued that violence has declined over time in The Better Angels of Our Nature. He argues for nativism in books like The Language Instinct and The Blank Slate.
Pierre Bourdieu
Pierre Clastres
Steven Pinker
Name some biases, 
Any sort of sample picked with the possibility of distorting the results through improper sampling can have this kind of statistical bias.
This bias explains people's readiness to assume personality characteristics were the driving factor of a person's actions rather than external factors.
This other type of bias, similar to the confirmation bias, occurs when people accept an answer without testing other hypotheses.
selection bias [prompt on sampling bias]
fundamental attribution error [or FAE, or correspondence bias]
congruence bias
This economist pointed out that it's very hard for planners to rationally distribute resources without a price mechanism to guide their decisions in "Economic Calculation and the Socialist Commonwealth." 
Name this economist, who argued for laissez-faire capitalism based on his studies of decision making, called praxeology, in his magnum opus Human Action.
Mises was part of this school of economics, whose other members included Friedrich Hayek and Eugen von BÃ¶hm- Bawerk. It stresses individual choice in economics, and is advanced today by Lew Rockwell.
Another member of the Austrian School, Frank Fetter, criticized this economist for abandoning a theory he put forth in his 1907 book The Rate of Interest. He also developed debt-deflation theory.
Ludwig von Mises
Austrian school of economics
Irving Fisher
The tendency of this quantity to fall over time as capital accumulates is an important tenet of Marxian economics, though in reality this quantity tends to be higher in capital-intensive industries. 
Identify this quantity, two types of which are differentiated by taking into account the opportunity cost of a firm's inputs.
This economist names an equation that relates a firm's profit to its supply function. He also names a rule that describes optimal pricing for non-renewable resources, such as fossil fuels.
Hotelling did work on these market structures, which are dominated by a small number of large firms. Collusion may be a problem in these market structures, but is made difficult because of defecting.
profit [the two types are normal profit and economic profit]
Harold Hotelling
oligopoly [or oligopolies]
Answer some deep questions, 
This country is supposedly secretly controlled by the so-called "deep state" and its nationalistic interests. Its first president was the reformist Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
The "deep image" school of poetry includes this poet whose book Iron John is a foundational text in the mythopoeic men's movement. He has translated the work of Kabir, Francis Ponge, Ibsen, and other writers.
Jeremy Bentham's concept of "deep play" was adopted by Clifford Geertz in an essay from this book, which recommended that anthropologists engage in "thick description."
Republic of Turkey [or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti]
Robert Elwood Bly
The Interpretation of Cultures
The Solow-Swan model is an example of an exogenous model of this process. 
Name this process in which economic output increases over time.
The Inada conditions for production functions in a neoclassical growth model imply that this value is asymptotically equal to 1. This value is the curvature of an isoquant representing a firm's choice of inputs.
This production function is a special case of the constant elasticity of substitution production function. It exhibits constant returns to scale if the output elasticities of capital and labor sum to 1.
economic growth
elasticity of substitution [prompt on "elasticity"]
Cobb-Douglas production function
The name of this school was coined by Christian von Ehrenfels. 
Name this German school of psychology, whose central principle was the whole is different from the sum of its parts.
Studies performed on Kurt Koffka and this other co-founder of gestalt psychology led to the development of the phi phenomenon. After this man left for Tenerife, he conducted studies on the insight ability of chimpanzees.
According to this principle of gestalt, the mind tends to perceive stuff as simple, familiar images. 
gestalt psychology
Wolfgang KÃ¶hler
pragnanz
A superscript h can be used in International Phonetic Alphabet to denote these consonants. 
Identify these consonants, whose utterance is accompanied by a burst of air, such as in pill but not in bill.
This law states that for some languages derived from Proto-Indo-European, like Sanskrit, when two syllables both had aspirated consonants, only the second one remained aspirated.
Grassmann's Law also applies to this language, whose Koine form was used in the Hellenistic Era to write books like the Septuagint.
aspirated consonants
Grassmann's Law
Ancient Greek
This book introduced a concept of "the veil" which its author later used in Darkwater, and includes a section on "Sorrow Songs" once sung in the fields.
Name this book which also pioneers the idea that its subject people always see themselves through others' eyes, via "double consciousness."
W.E.B. DuBois, the author of The Souls of Black Folk, also proposed this compendium of black knowledge, a reference book which others finished in 1999.
This Harvard historian of Africa and African-Americans completed the Encyclopedia Africana with Kwame Anthony Appiah. He had a "beer summit" with police and Barack Obama after being arrested unlocking his own front door.
The Souls of Black Folk
Encyclopedia Africana
Henry Louis Gates, Jr.
"Chunking" can increase the capacity of this system, which is the second stage of the Atkinson-Shifflin three-stage model.
Name this system whose "magic number" is, according to George Miller, seven plus or minus two.
This condition does not affect short-term memory, since it is a disruption of long-term memory. Its "anterograde" form is an inability to consolidate new memories, and is "retrograde" form involves the loss of existing memories.
This kind of long-term memory is extremely vivid due to the stress of the circumstances. An example is the memory someone has of where they were on September 11.
short-term memory [or working memory; prompt on memory]
amnesia
flashbulb memory
Answer the following about a possibly Altaic language,
This language of seventy million speakers is often transliterated by the McCune-Reischauer system and is written by its northern speakers as Choson kul.
Previously known as Onmon, this is the South Korean name for the syllabic script dating from 1443.
This system of transliterating Korean includes macrons and the letter "q" and is primarily used by linguists. It was devised by Samuel Martin at a university which also has namesake transliterations of three other Asian languages.
Korean [or Hangungmal; or Hangungeo; prompt on Choson mal]
Hangul
Yale
This test sorts people into categories such as thinking or feeling. For 10 points each:
Name this personality indicator test, whose uses in society are advocated by the Center for Application of Psychological Type. 
The Myers-Briggs test is based on the theories of this psychiatrist, the founder of analytical psychology, who also proposed such ideas as "archetypes" and the "collective unconscious." 
Jung proposed this concept, in which events that appear to be causally unrelated are observed to act together in a meaningful manner. An example is hearing about a golden scarab and then immediately spotting an insect that resembles the scarab. 
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator [or MBTI] 
Carl Gustav Jung
synchronicity
 Education is a positive one of these things, and corporate pollution is a negative one. For 10 points each: 
Name this economic phenomenon by which a transaction has an effect on a third party. 
The effects of a negative externality are supposed to be corrected by levying one of these taxes on a transaction that causes a negative externality. 
Ronald Coase, whose theorem deals with the effect of externalities on efficiency, also wrote about the "nature" of this entity, the basic actor studied in microeconomics. 
externality [or externalities] 
Pigouvian taxes
the firm
According to one theory, the mind uses both the situation and the physical response to a stimulus to interpret these phenomena. For 10 points each: 
Identify these phenomena explained by the Schachter-Singer and Cannon-Bard theories, which include happiness, sadness, and fear. 
This first theory proposed to explain emotions describes how the mind receives the bodily response first and experiences emotion afterwards.
This other theory pairs emotions like fear and relief or pleasure and pain, and states the body suppresses the opposite response in certain situations. For example, addicts use drugs to suppress pain, and then feel the pain returning when the drug wears off.
emotions
James-Lange theory [prompt on partial]
opponent-process theory 
Part 2 of this book, titled "Can Capitalism Survive," argues that capitalism will give way to socialism but in a different way than Marx envisioned. For 10 points each: 
Name this book that opens with "The Marxian Doctrine" and argues that the introduction of new products should force the collapse of existing businesses. 
Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy was written by this Austrian economist. 
Schumpeter advocated this two-word phrase to describe the tendency of capitalism to advance through learning from, or causing, business failures. 
Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy
Joseph Schumpeter
creative destruction
This model uses a production function "Y equals A times K to the alpha times L to the beta," where for simplicity's sake alpha plus beta often equals one, implying constant returns to scale. For 10 points each: 
Name this doubly-eponymous model of a firm's output, empirically tested by its namesakes against measures of the U.S. economy. 
In the Cobb-Douglas model, L represents this capacity of humans to do work, as opposed to other factors of production like land and capital, the latter of which is represented by K. 
Alpha and beta represent the percent change in output with respect to percent change in input, making them this kind of measure of the effect of a change in one variable, such as price, on the change in another, such as demand. 
Cobb-Douglas model 
labor
elasticity
This thinker argued that an interconnected society brings about specialization in jobs in his The Division of Labor in Society. For 10 points each:
Name this French sociologist. 
This other Durkheim book examines the origins of totemism, including among Australian aborigines. 
Slaves and others subject to "excessive regulation" and "pervasive oppression" may engage in this form of suicide identifies in Durkheim's study of the phenomenon. 
Emile Durkheim 
The Elementary Forms of Religious Life 
fatalistic suicide 
This book coined the term "universe-maintenance," which refers to processes taken by users of an outdated symbolic universe becomes useless. For 10 points each: 
Name this landmark text by Peter Berger and Thomas Luckmann, which claims that groups that interact socially create mental images of other groups' actions, leading to the groups' fulfilling the roles the others imagine of them. 
The Social Construction of Reality claims that this process results in the creation of specific knowledge. A pin factory is used to illustrate this concept in The Wealth of Nations.
Emile Durkheim's The Division of Labor in Society defines this term, which is integration within a society brought about by homogenous education, lifestyle, and work. It is a hallmark of more traditional societies. 
The Social Construction of Reality
division of labor
mechanical solidarity
James Frazer distinguished between the homeopathic and contagious forms of a "sympathetic" form of this concept, which is based on the principle that like produces like. For 10 points each: 
Name this concept, which Frazer placed before the religious and the scientific as the first stage in human belief. Malinowski described its intimate connection with language in a book on its use in Trobriand gardening. 
With Henri Hubert, this anthropologist outlined a general theory of magic. He is better known for a book which analyses the potlatch and the Maori hau, and describes its central practice as a "total social fact." 
This anthropologist describes how magic boosted the status of Malagasy slave descendants in his dissertation. He also wrote Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology and Debt: The First 5000 Years. 
magic [or word forms] 
Marcel Mauss
David Rolfe Graeber
This language's alphabet consists of 31 letters, although "Q," "W," and "Y" are only used in foreign words. For 10 points each: 
Name this language that has both an s-comma and t-comma, and which changed its alphabet in 1860. Its "Daco" form is standard. 
The Romanian alphabet switched to a Latin alphabet from this other kind of alphabet in 1860. 
Romanian is one of these Italic languages of the Indo-European family; other members of this group of Latin-derived languages include French and Italian. 
Romanian [or Romana] 
Cyrillic alphabet 
Romance languages 
A man elbows you out of the way while you are entering a convenience store, which makes you think he is rude. For 10 points each:
Since the man is actually a paramedic trying to save a person's life inside, you have just shown a good example of this psychological phenomenon, which makes you think a person's internal disposition was the cause of their behavior rather than the situation. 
This related phenomenon is the belief that if a bad thing happens to a person, then that person must be intrinsically bad, and if a good thing happens to a person, then that person must be intrinsically good. 
The just-world phenomenon is an example of these errors in information processing, which also include the halo effect and the confirmation type. 
fundamental attribution error [or FAE] 
just-world phenomenon [or anything mentioning just-world] 
cognitive bias
This book divides identity into two parts: the "I" dealing with the reaction to others and the "Me" concerned with the attitudes of others. For 10 points each;
Name this posthumously published sociological book by George Herbert Mead that argues that the individual is a product of socially significant gestures. 
Mind, Self, and Society is one of the foundational texts of this school of sociology whose leaders include Herbert Blumer and Erving Goffman. 
Mead wrote a book about the "philosophy of the act," setting forth the four stages of impulse, perception, manipulation, and consummation. This author's nonfiction Shadow and Act discusses racial and literary issues; he also wrote about Ras the Destroyer.
Mind, Self, and Society 
symbolic interactionism [or dramaturgical approach]
Ralph Ellison 
Adam Smith critiqued this ideology, which was summarized in Philipp von HÃ¶rnigk's treatise Austria Over All If She Only Will. For 10 points each: 
Name this dominant economic theory in early modern Europe, which advocated high tariffs, an export-heavy or "favorable" balance of trade, and the import of gold and silver bullion. 
This finance minister to Louis XIV of France advanced mercantilist policies after Nicolas Fouquet fell from grace. 
The implementer of mercantilism in Sweden, Queen Christina, scandalized Europe by abdicating in tandem with performing this action, which led her to move South. 
mercantilism [or the mercantile system] 
Jean-Baptiste Colbert
converting to Catholicism [or equivalents] 
The 475 basis point spread between this quantity and nominal GDP growth is one of the reasons cited by Bill Gross for his opinion that Treasury bond yields are 150 basis points too low. For 10 points each:
Identify this quantity which is the rate at which banks lend money to each other overnight in order to meet the minimum deposit requirements at an American institution. 
This prescription suggests that the Federal Funds rate should be equal to 1.0 + 1.5 times inflation rate + 0.5 times the output gap. It is named after a Stanford professor. 
Decisions on money supply and interest rates are made by this committee composed of Federal Reserve Bank presidents and Board of Governors. Its principle mechanism for achieving policies is the buying and selling of treasury securities. 
Federal Funds rate
Taylor rule 
Federal Open Market Committee [or FOMC] 
This effect was first observed when changing the lighting levels in a factory boosted production. For 10 points each: 
Name this effect which occurs when adjustments in the environment cause workers to change or improve their behaviors, possibly because they are being watched by psychology researchers. 
The Hawthorne effect is important in this field of psychology, which deals with issues at the workplace. Psychologists that work in human resources department typically have experience in this field of psychology. 
I/O psychologists often have to deal with this phenomenon with employees, which can be mediated through coping mechanisms. If this psychological phenomenon is severe enough, it can manifest with physical symptoms; it is measured on the Holmes and Rahe scale. 
Hawthorne effect [prompt on observer effect] 
industrial/organizational psychology [or I/O psychology; or occupational psychology; prompt on work psychology; prompt on partial answer] 
stress
It was originally organized as the anti-federalist party, and the whip of this party was withdrawn from Godfrey Bloom after he attacked a journalist in the street. For 10 points each: 
Name this far-right political party in the UK led by Nigel Farange. 
True to its name, one of UKIP's main advocacies is the withdrawal from this supranational group originally created by the Maastricht Treaty. 
Another British right-wing political party, the BNP, was led by this white supremacist and Holocaust-denying member of the European Parliament. He made a controversial October 22nd, 2009 appearance on Question Time
UKIP [or United Kingdom Independence Party] 
European Union [or EU] 
Nicholas John Griffin
This publication has such columns as "Lexington" to refer to news about the United States. For 10 points each:
Name this publication which is published from London. Noted for its support of classical liberalism, it is noted for its Big Mac Index tracing the price of hamburgers in various countries.
This collaborator with Engels on The Communist Manifesto called The Economist "the European organ of the aristocracy of finance."
This editor of The Economist during almost all of the 1860's wrote such books as The English Constitution and Physics and Politics. His namesake dictum states that during a credit crunch, lenders should lend freely at a high rate of interest.
The Economist
Karl Marx
Walter Bagehot
E. E. Evans-Pritchard discredited accounts that the Azande performed this action, and William Arens argued that Spanish colonialists fabricated accounts of this action among the Carib. For 10 points each: 
Name this behavior, taboo in most cultures, whose practice among the Fore people of New Guinea caused the spread of kuru. 
This foremost proponent of cultural materialism discussed the cannibalism of a certain culture in his Cannibals and Kings. He also argued that Indian taboos against cattle slaughter were a form of disaster insurance. 
Harris argued that this culture's reliance on a maize diet led them to practice cannibalism to address protein deficiency. 
cannibalism [or word forms; or anthropophagy] 
Marvin Harris
Aztecs
Credited with founding the Lausanne School of Economics, this man lends his name to an auction where the auctioneer yells out a price and then buyers and sellers agree on what quantities they want to buy or sell. For 10 points each: 
Identify this nineteenth-century French economist, the author of Elements of Pure Economics.
This Italian economist succeeded Leon Walras as Chair of Political Economy at the Lausanne School. His namesake efficiency describes a condition when no one can be made better off without someone being made worse off. 
This English economist developed his marginal utility independently of Carl Menger and Leon Walras, and preceded fellow English foundational figure Alfred Marshall. This author of 1871's The Theory of Political Economy incorrectly predicted coal prices would rise in The Coal Question. 
Marie-Esprit-Leon Walras
Vilfredo Pareto
William Stanley Jevons
Key texts for this discipline include Edward Said's Orientalism and Gayatri Spivak's "Can the Subaltern Speak?". For 10 points each:
Name this academic discipline that studies the long-lasting cultural effects of imperialism, including economic exploitation and problems of national identity.
Frantz Fanon advocated striving for a "collective catharsis" through violent resistance to colonialism in this posthumously published work about the Algerian fight for independence.
Fanon's ideas about imitating the culture of the colonizer are similar to this Indian postcolonial theorist's concept of mimicry. This author of The Location of Culture coined the term "hybridization" to describe the creation of new cultures from muticulturalist encounters.
postcolonialism [or postcolonial studies]
The Wretched of the Earth
Homi K. Bhabha
A major accent of this country's dialect of English is called Strine.
Name this country, where so-called "mother-in-law languages" are a common example of avoidance speech. The Pama-Nyugan family of languages is most widely spread in this country.
This cognitive linguist analyzed categories, such as those found in the aboriginal Dyirbal language, in Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things, building on ideas he had introduced with Mark Johnson in Metaphors We Live By.
Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things includes a reconsideration of the ideas of linguistic relativity put forth by this American linguist, in a hypothesis usually co-named with his teacher Edward Sapir.
Commonwealth of Australia
George P. Lakoff
Benjamin Lee Whorf
[missing]
Give this nickname for the large post-industrial region in the middle of the United States that has suffered from population decline and social decay from the loss of manufacturing jobs.
This major Rust Belt employer was recently bought out by an Italian company. This company ran the "Imported from Detroit" and "Half Time in America" ad campaigns.
This political scientist, who decided to not vote for Bush in 2004 on account of three major mistakes, considered the transition of the Factory Belt into the Rust Belt as part of a broader series of social changes in his The Great Disruption.
Rust Belt [or Factory Belt; or Steel Belt]
Chrysler Group LLC
Yoshihiro Francis Fukuyama
[missing]
Name this phenomenon often studied in human geography, by which people relocate from one country to another.
This term describes factors that encourage potential immigrants to move to a specific destination, such as especially good job opportunities in the target country.
Unlike immigration, which is usually permanent, this type of population movement, in which people follow their herds of livestock, is usually cyclical with the seasons.
immigration [or emigration]
pull factors [do NOT accept "push factors"]
transhumance
[missing]
Name this economist who argued that long-term macroeconomic stability tends to heighten the risk of instability during crises, as part of his financial instability hypothesis.
Similarly to Minsky, this school of economics argues that macroeconomic booms and busts are generally produced by monetary phenomena. Proponents of this school include Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek.
In Austrian economic theory, this value coordinates production across time and reflects the time-preference of individuals. Varieties of this value are calculated using the Fisher equation.
Hyman Philip Minsky
Austrian school of economics
interest rates [prompt on "i"]
Annette Weiner analyzed the frequent exchange of immovable goods, such as women's property, with movable ones, such as men's gifts, in this system of exchange.
Name this system of exchange consisting of red and white objects that are traded in north and south directions. Everyone can participate in this system on Dobu, though in other places only chiefs participate.
White armbands called mwali were made of these things and frequently traded in the kula exchange. Cowrie ones were used as currency among indigenous North Americans, as well as some East Africans.
Marcel Mauss introduced this term to refer to exchanges that metonymically represent the entire society their participants are a part of, and not simply a trade of goods.
kula ring exchange
seashells
total prestation
Los Horcones in Mexico is a commune based on the cultural engineering ideas this dude proposed in his utopian novel Walden Two.
Name this behavioral psychologist whose namesake box is an operant conditioning chamber based on the work of Edward Thorndike.
Skinner waded into the field of linguistics with this work, which analyzes utterances as one of six basic operants, likethe "echoic" and the "tact". Noam Chomsky panned this book in an influential 1959 review.
In Skinner's behavioral linguistics, this term refers to a verbal behavior that is reinforced by what the speaker wants from the listener, such as saying "please, pass the salt", so that the listener passes you the salt.
B.F. Skinner [or Burrhus Frederic Skinner]
Verbal Behavior
: mand relation
Terms for these things in natural language evolve in a universal order according to linguists Brent Berlin and Paul Kay.
Name these stimuli whose perception is governed by the opponent-process theory, which outmoded the Young-Helmholtz theory. Groups of cells called "blobs" process them in the visual cortex.
In this test, a color word such as "red" is displayed in a different color such as blue; subjects must say the color they see and not the word. It was used during the Cold War with Russian words to ferret out spies.
This indigenous Brazilian language seems to lack color words, using terms such as "blood" rather than "red." Dan Everett controversially claims that it lacks self-embedding, a key type of linguistic recursion.
colors
Stroop test [or Stroop effect]
PirahÃ£ language [or xapaitÃ­iso (ah-pah-tshi-so)]
The main metaphor for this condition is that of seeing oneself through the eyes of others. F
Name this term for an African-American person's struggle with reconciling being black with being American because the latter is defined in white cultural terms.
The theory of "double consciousness" appears in The Souls of Black Folk, by this African-American social thinker. His Niagara Movement opposed the conciliatory approach of Booker T. Washington.
DuBois's Black Reconstruction in America attacks the work of this Columbia University historian, whose namesake school characterized Reconstruction as an attempt by Radical Republicans to subjugate the South.
double consciousness
W.E.B. DuBois [or William Edward Burghardt DuBois]
 William Archibald Dunning
These cycles are named for the economist who worked on the Scissors Crisis
Name these long-term economic cycles driven by growth in specific sectors. Information technology is generally considered to be driving the current iteration of them.
This economist proposed the name of Kondratiev waves. He popularized "creative destruction" to refer to the tendency of capitalist entrepreneurship to outmode and replace old methods of production.
This tract by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels discusses "a mass destruction of productive forces" similar to Schumpeter's "creative destruction". This tract ends by encouraging the workers of the world to unite.
K-waves [or Kondratiev waves]
Joseph Schumpeter [or Joseph Alois Schumpeter]
The Communist Manifesto [or Manifesto of the Communist Party; or Das Kommunistische Manifest; or Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei]
Answer the following about Wilhelm Wundt, whose pre-Freudian innovations lead some to call him the "father of modern psychology," 
Wundt pioneered the use of this method to study the mind in his lab at Leipzig. In modern terms, this method uses a control group and manipulates an independent variable to see the effects on a dependent variable.
Wundt advocated this key method of structuralist psychology, in which a person reflects on their own thoughts to isolate the component parts of their conscious experience.
This British student of Wilhelm Wundt translated Wundt's work into English, warning about the effects of "stimulus error" on introspection and coining the term "empathy" in the process.
experiment al method [or controlled experiment s; or experiment al study; or obvious equivalents mentioning experiment ]
introspect ion
Edward B. Titchener [or Edward Bradford Titchener ]
The ISO codes for these things are typically a combination of a two letter country code and their first initial.
Name this medium of exchange, whose paper varieties include the Euro and US dollar. Exchange rates are the rate of interchange between them.
This economic condition formally suggests that the devaluation of a currency will not result in an improvement of the balance of trade, unless the elasticities of exports and imports sum to greater than 1.
Across this period of time, a devaluation is most likely to result in a reduction in exports as represented by the J curve. Keynesian economists generally accept that monetary stimuli can increase real output across this period of time.
currency [prompt on "money"]
Marshall-Lerner condition
the short term [prompt on "short", or anything mentioning "short" that does not include "term"]
These policies often involved the use of high tariffs and an overvalued currency to promote the growth of indigenous industries.
Identify these policies in part motivated by the Singer-Prebisch thesis. They were primarily trade policies that motivated by arguments from development economics.
The Singer-Prebisch thesis suggests that a dependence on the export of these things occurs side-by-side with a decline in terms of trade. Marxian analysis describes a "fetishism" of these things in which they are presumed to have an inherent value that does not reflect the labor needed to produce them.
 ISI policies were popular in Latin American countries in the aftermath of this global event. Greece and Turkey received extensive aid after this event via the Marshall Plan, which sought to limit communist expansion in its aftermath.
ISI [or import substitution industrialization]
primary commodities [or word forms]
World War II [or the Second World War; or obvious equivalents]
Answer the following about the study of performativity in modern anthropology and sociology,
The Trance and Dance of this Southeast Asian island's traditional theater was studied by Margaret Mead and Reo Fortune. A Clifford Geertz essay described an illegal competition on this island as "deep play."
This author of "On Face-Work" proposed a "dramaturgical" model of social interaction, in which identity is largely performed rather than innate, in The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life.
This symbolic anthropologist worked with drama professor Richard Schechner to found the Performance Studies program at NYU. With his wife Edith, he studied "liminality" among the Ndembu people of Zambia.
Bali
Erving Goffman
Victor Turner
This thinker suggested that the Ego is formed at the moment when infants are able to recognize reflections as being their own image, which he termed the "mirror stage".
Name this French psychoanalyst who divided reality into the Imaginary, Real, and Symbolic orders.
Lacan's Real order roughly corresponds to this concept from Freudian terminology, referring to the part of our personalities containing all of our primal urges. It forms a triad with the ego and superego.
This queer theorist and author of Epistemology of the Closet suggested moving past Freudian and Lacanian notions of "sexual difference" in "Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading".
 Jacques Lacan [or Jacques Emile Lacan]
id [or das Es]
Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick
A namesake "Perceptions Index" for this phenomenon, published yearly by Transparency International, lists Somalia, North Korea, and Afghanistan at the bottom, with Denmark and New Zealand at the top.
Name this phenomenon studied by political scientist Colin Nye, which the World Bank defines as "abuse of public power for private benefit." Its forms can include bribery, regulatory capture, and embezzlement.
This Harvard Law professor argued that "improper dependencies" of legislators upon fundraisers have caused large-scale corruption in American politics in his book Republic, Lost.
Lessig set aside his advocacy for looser standards in this area of law to focus on his anti-corruption work. Lessig argued against a strict law in this field named for pop singer Sonny Bono in Eldred v. Ashcroft
corruption
Lawrence "Larry" Lessig
copyright law [or copyrights; or intellectual property law; or IP law; do NOT accept "patent law"]
This essay outlines its author's view of the individual in history by stating that "men make their own history, but do not make it as they please."
Name this Karl Marx essay, which claimed that the French coup of 1851 represented the phenomenon of history repeating itself first as tragedy, then as farce.
The Eighteenth Brumaire claims that this class has come to categorize as "socialistic" that which was previous called "liberal." In Marxist discourse, this class is frequently contrasted with the proletariat.
In Marxism, the essential characteristic of the bourgeoisie is that they own this, the non-human resources that are essential in the creation of wealth and economic goods.
The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon [or Der 18te Brumaire des Louis Napoleon; or The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte]
bourgeoisie
means of production [prompt on "(factors of) production"; do NOT accept "productive forces", "productive powers", or "forces of production"]
This theorist's thesis that judges should strive to make decisions that make law more coherent is called "law as integrity".
Name this legal theorist, known for his rejection of legal positivism, and his support of an interpretivist approach to law, which seeks the "right answer".
Andrea Dworkin is a radical feminist writer best known for her opposition to this form of media. Catherine MacKinnon attacked this form of media as discrimination in a book on it and Civil Rights.
Gerald Dworkin is a medical ethicist known for arguing in favor of this practice, whose legality is advocated for by many "Right to Die" organizations. This practice was controversially carried out by Jack Kevorkian.
Ronald Dworkin [or Ronald Myles Dworkin]
pornography
euthanasia [or physician-assisted suicide; prompt on "suicide"]
An APA study by Dieter et al. found that, as of 2013, this man was by far the most cited living psychologist. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian psychologist who had adult assistants shout things like "sockeroo!" and display aggression towards a large inflatable toy in his bobo doll experiment.
The bobo doll experiment demonstrated this kind of non-reinforcement-based learning, in which a person takes cues from the habits of the people around them.
Bandura's self-efficacy theory involves distinguishing"internal" or "external" types of this concept, the zone which a person believes to be most relevant to determining outcomes in their lives.
Albert Bandura
social learning [or social learning theory; or observational learning]
locus of control [or internal locus of control; or external locus of control; prompt on partial answers]
This psychologist linked gender nonconformity among young children with homosexuality in adulthood with his "exotic becomes erotic" theory. For 10 points each:
Name this social psychologist, whose "self-perception theory" argues that people infer their own attitudes from their behaviors, much as an outside observer might.
Bem's "self-perception theory" differs in its views of how people change attitudes from this psychologist's theory of "cognitive dissonance." He collaborated with Henry Riecken and Stanley Schachter on When Prophecy Fails.
Festinger published an influential paper on social comparison theory while working at this California university, whose basement was used by Philip Zimbardo for a simulation of a prison environment.
Daryl Bem
Leon Festinger
Stanford University 
The repertory grid developed by George Kelly originally used this technique to process responses to a personality type interview. For 10 points each: 
Identify this type of statistical analysis whose exploratory version uses responses to develop constructs, while its confirmatory version evaluates a priori hypotheses about the validity of certain constructs. 
Factor analysis was used in some early research into this concept. Howard Gardner claimed there were eight types of this concept and this concept's "quotient" can be measured using tests like the Wechsler and Stanford-Binet. 
This student of William Wundt theorized that intelligence was influenced by a single g-factor that could be studied with factor analysis. His namesake rho in statistics is a rank correlation coefficient statistic. 
factor analysis
intelligence
Charles Spearman 
In The Powers of Horror, this idea is likened to a man who has loathed food and thus gags when his lips touch the surface of milk. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, elaborated by Julia Kristeva, in which an individual has to come to think of himself or herself as a base and vile object.
The writings of Kristeva are taken as the starting point in this philosopher's treatise which argues that gender is performative, entitled Gender Trouble.
This other writer and erstwhile lover of Jean-Paul Sartre argued that throughout history, women have been turned into the "other" in her book The Second Sex.
abjection [or word forms]
Judith Butler
Simone de Beauvoir [or Simone Lucie Ernestine Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir] 
Rollo May and Paul Tillich introduced this kind of therapy to help patients develop the courage to deal with anxiety and take responsibility for their actions. For 10 points each: 
Identify this type of therapy that Irvin Yalom argues should have the patient view the therapist as a "fellow traveler" in confronting the four givens of life: isolation, meaninglessness, mortality, and freedom.
This author of Man's Search for Meaning employed existential therapy principles to develop his own logotherapy. His attempt to gauge purpose was improved on by Crumbaugh and Maholick in their "Purpose in Life" test. 
Frankl's approach was derived from his experiences surviving this historical event,. This event influenced later psychology studies like Milgram's obedience experiments to explain the actions of concentration camp guards.
existential therapy
Viktor Frankl 
The Holocaust 
This phenomenon may be explained as a sorites paradox, as people may be uncomfortable demarcating at which point something is no longer human. For 10 points each:
Name this hypothesis, which holds that people are comfortable with things that are barely human or fully human, but experience revulsion when human features move similarly to, but not exactly like, those of actual humans.
Masahiko Mori, the coiner of the term "uncanny valley", was from this country. Advanced lifelike human robots from this country are often cited as examples of the uncanny valley in popular culture.
The concept of the "uncanny valley" was based on the work of this social scientist, who developed the work of Ernst Jentsch in his essay "The Uncanny."
the uncanny valley [or bukimi no tani gensho; prompt on "uncanny"]
Japan [or Nihon-koku; or Nippon-koku]
Sigmund Freud 
This theory is often contrasted with theories that business cycles are caused by market failures, such as the inability of a market to clear. For 10 points each:
Name this theory of the business cycle, which states that economic recessions are efficient responses to exogenous shocks to the economy and production function.
A "real" shock to the economy can be represented by a movement of curve representing the "aggregate" of this function to the left. This function represents the willingness of producers to provide a product at a given price.
Real business cycle theory is associated with this tradition, which encompasses neoclassical schools like those at Chicago and CMU.  This geographically named school contrasts with a more Keynesian approach advocated on the East and West Coast.
real business cycle theory [or RBCT]
supply function/curve
freshwater economics [as opposed to the saltwater economists of the coasts] 
Morris Fiorina theorized a retrospective version of this political action while Anthony Downs thought people acquired information about doing this as the by-product of everyday life. For 10 points each:
Identify this action that V.O. Key argued could successfully be used to hold politicians accountable in a "reward-punish" model of it.
This trait, the psychological identification of a person with a political faction, is one of the strongest determinants of vote choice for individuals. The Michigan Model puts this trait at the forefront of its "funnel of causality." 
Experiments have found that the threat of revealing that a person did not vote to neighbors is more effective than appeals to civic-mindedness at increasing this measure, which is often depressed in campaigns with many attack ads.
voting [or obvious equivalents, such as casting a vote; do not prompt on "elections"]
partisanship [or word forms, such as partisan]
voter turnout 
This book opens by describing factories where division of labor between up to eighteen men allows for an output of twelve pounds of pins per day. For 10 points each:
Name this book which, like its author's earlier Theory of Moral Sentiments, described the corrections of a relatively free market as an "invisible hand." It's by Adam Smith.
Book III of The Wealth of Nations argues that these economic zones came to prominence after the fall of the Roman Empire. Their success improves the countryside via the "natural progress of opulence."
Book I of The Wealth of Nations ends with infamously long tables charting the price of this good against gold as far back as 1202 CE. Norman Borlaug experimented to improve this commodity in Mexico.
An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations
towns and cities [or cities and towns -- those two words are Smith's terms; or urban areas; prompt on "manufacturing zones" or answers indicating "manufacture"]
wheat [prompt on "grain"] 
This term titles a play in which David Quixano falls for Vera even though Vera's dad ordered a pogrom killing David's family back over in Russia, by Israel Zangwill. For 10 points each:
Name this two-word term, described in that play as the tool God uses to make Americans out of the immigrant races of Europe. Since then, this metaphor has been described as less apt than a "cultural mosaic" or "salad bowl."
This approach, in which immigrant traditions are welcomed as additions to a diverse society that need not assimilate, opposes the melting pot metaphor. In the early 2010s, Angela Merkel and David Cameron each deemed this policy a "failed" one.
This section of the 1982 Constitution Act officially enshrines protection of Canada's "multicultral heritage" as state policy in Section 27.
melting pot [or The Melting-Pot]
multiculturalism [or multi-culti; prompt on "pluralism," "diversity," etc. since both Merkel and Cameron used this specific term] 
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms [prompt on "Charter"] 
These people believe in a kind "Black God" and a vengeful "Red God", who are two aspects of the same figure, and their priests are called laibon. For 10 points each:
Name this Nilotic ethnic group which lives in southern Kenya and northern Tanzania. Young male warriors among this ethnic group undergo a painful circumcision ceremony as a right of passage.
The Maasai herd and consume this animal, which were often killed by rinderpest. Marvin Harris titled a work after this animal, pigs, witches, and wars, and they are often held sacred in India and allowed to roam freely.
This sociologist wrote about the "cattle complex" in East Africa in one series of articles. He also wrote about how slaves did not completely lose their African culture in his "The Myth of the Negro Past".
Maasai
cow [or bull or ox]
Melville Jean Herskovits 
The Federal Rules governing this stuff do not include the "exclusionary rule," which, at least in theory, renders this stuff inadmissible if it was gathered in violation of the Fourth Amendment. For 10 points each:
Name this component of trials, which is admitted to the record to help establish proof of facts. It may include testimony or exhibits, but not hearsay. 
This important protection, by which a plaintiff or defendant may keep confidential all information shared with their lawyer, is explicitly enshrined by Rule 502 in the Federal Rules of Evidence.
Rule 401 governs this property, by which evidence makes a "fact that is of consequence ... more probable or less probable." Admission and exclusion of evidence, per Rules 402 and 403, assume that this property is established.
evidence
attorney-client privilege [prompt on "privilege"]
relevance [or relevancy; accept any answer indicating that a given piece of evidence is relevant to the case at hand] 
Answer the following about Frans de Waal, a leading primate psychologist at Emory University, for 10 points each.
One of de Waal's books juxtaposes this ape with "the Atheist." These infrequently-observed members of genus Pan are often touted as less warlike, more matriarchal, and more sexually active than the closely-related chimpanzee.
Frans de Waal's work at Emory draws on and updates this pioneering female primatologist, who studied of the factional split among chimps at Gombe Stream.
de Waal put forth these neural circuits as a possible basis for morality in his 2009 book The Age of Empathy. They fire both when you move in a certain way and when you observe someone else move in that same way.
bonobos [or Pan paniscus]
Jane Goodall
mirror neurons 
A mid-2000s ad campaign in the United States called this substance "The Other White Meat." For 10 points each:
Name this food comprised of the muscle tissue of Sus domesticus, a meat which is neither kosher nor halal.
Pork is so popular in this country that it maintains a strategic pork reserve. This country also is home to a traditional method of preserving pork called Bakkwa. 
According to Donald Mackenzie, these people had a taboo against eating pork before 1800 as a result of practices brought from the Cult of Attis in Anatolia. According to another explanation, deforestation cost them the acorns with which they could have fed pigs. 
pork
People's Republic of China
Scottish People [or Scots] 
Answer the following about models in the social sciences which can be diagrammed as triangles or pyramids, of which, sadly, none are Sternberg's triangle of love, for 10 points each.
This humanistic psychologist put the "deficiency needs" of physiological satisfaction, safety, belonging, and esteem below self-actualization in his silly-ass hierarchy of needs.
Robert Gordon developed a New Keynesian "triangle" model of this phenomenon that incorporates a "built-in" component. People seeking a less volatile estimate of this phenomenon often use data on its "core" variety.
Though sometimes depicted as a Trivial Pursuit piece-like pie, this schema for classifying skills important to learning is often shown as a pyramid with "creating" or "evaluating" at the top.
Abraham Maslow
inflation
Benjamin Bloom's taxonomy 
[missing]
Name this measure of income inequality, which is zero for a country whose wealth distribution is the perfect 45-degree line of equality.
The Gini coefficient is defined as the ratio of the area between the line of equality and this curve divided by the total area below the line of equality. This curve plots the percentage of people at or below a certain wealth percentile on the x-axis and the total wealth owned by those people on the y-axis.
This man postulated that in developing countries, as income per capita increases, income inequality first increases, then decreases, forming a U-shaped curve that bears his name.
Gini coefficient (or Gini index)
Lorenz curve
Simon Kuznets
[missing]
Social scientist Daniel Bell predicted the rise of this type of society, which Bell defined as based on services rather than manufacturing, centered on technological advances, and ruled by a scientific elite.
This author of Future Shock argued that the post-industrial society was the third of three "waves" of civilization.
A more eccentric futurologist, Herman Kahn, worked at the RAND corporation modeling conflict based on this technology; Kahn argues that such wars did not, as usually thought, lead to mutually assured destruction.
the post-industrial society (or The Coming of the Post-Industrial Society)
Alvin Toffler
nuclear weapons (or thermonuclear weapons; or nukes; or equivalents, specific types, etc.)
[missing]
Name this anthropological work which terms magic a "pseudo-science" and a "pernicious delusion" and describes a dual aspect of religion encompassed by "animism of the self" and "animism of the other."
Primitive Culture is a work by this English anthropologist who pinpointed animism as the earliest manifestation of religious belief and wrote Anthropology, an Introduction to the Study of Man and Civilization.
Tylor's theories of magic and religion were influential in this later comparative study of religion by James Frazer, titled after an object from the Aeneid.
Primitive Culture
Edward Burnett Tylor
The Golden Bough: A Study in Comparative Religion
[missing]
This man's book The Wretched of the Earth's first chapter discusses violence as a means of ending colonialism. He also wrote Black Skin, White Masks.
This man's 2008 work Violence discusses events like the 2005 Parisian riots. This Slovenian Marxist also wrote How to Read Lacan and many other works of criticism and philosophy.
This French anthropologist wrote The Archaeology of Violence. He's more famous for working with the Guayaki and publishing Society Against the State.
Frantz Fanon
Slavoj ÂŽiÂžek
Pierre Clastres
[missing]
Give this specific term used by Anthony Wallace to describe processes that respond to stress and "cultural distortion" and create a "new steady state." This term describes movements that seek to alter the "mazeway."
One classic revitalization movement analyzed by Wallace was the Vailala Madness, a cargo cult from this island. This island's Chambri, Arapesh and Mundugumor peoples were studied by Reo Fortune and Margaret Mead.
Wallace also cited this 1890 revitalization movement founded by Wokova. As part of this movement, many Lakota wore allegedly bulletproof shirts that unfortunately did not prevent the Wounded Knee Massacre.
revitalization movements (anti-prompt on nativistic, vitalistic, revivalistic, millenarian, messianic movements, or cargo cults (which are subcategories delineated by Wallace); prompt on "new religious movements" or "NRMs," reminding people that the specific term used by Wallace is required)
New Guinea (accept Irian or Papua)
Ghost Dance (or NanissÃ¡anah; prompt on "circle dance")
[missing]
To decide, he might want to use these curves that represent the preferences of a consumer. They plot points of equal utility along the curve.
Uh, oh. The store is almost out of Milky Ways and both Chris Ray and Arun Chonai want them. They might want to use one of these economic constructs that contain indifference curves. They deal with how to properly allocate resources between two consumers.
If Arun and Chris's indifference curves touch then they are labeled as this man' namesake optimality, in which it is impossible for either of them to be better off. This man also has a namesake principle and distribution.
indifference curves
Edgeworth box
Vilfredo Federico Pareto
[missing]
Name this kind of test used to compare statistical models. Its has its namesake distribution under the null hypothesis, and it is the basis ANOVA.
An f test can be used to test if two populations with the same mean are also equal in this value, the squared of standard deviation.
F-tests are no longer robust when this condition is violated, and thus have a higher type I error rate. Under this condition, variance is constant and errors are not correlated with the explanatory variable.
F-test
variance
homoscedasticity (accept on homogeneity of variance; do not accept "heteroskedasticity")
[missing]
Name this liberal Harvard professor who included the "difference principle," the idea that all inequalities must benefit the worst-off, in his "two principles of justice as fairness."
Rawls replaced the "state of nature" with this idealized situation. Everyone who deliberates over the social order in this construct is under a "veil of ignorance" about their own identity and wealth.
Rawls used this two-word phrase for the attitude the social order must garner from different faiths or moral codes for a liberal society to be stable. Rawls preferred this attitude to the mere "modus vivendi" approach.
John Bordley "Jack" Rawls
the original position (prompt on "OP")
overlapping consensus
[missing]
Name this work which uses Nietzsche's concepts of the Apollonian and Dionysian to contrast the Native American tribes Zuni, Dobu, and Kwakiutl.
Patterns of Culture was written by this anthropologist who may be better known for characterizing Japan as a "shame culture" in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
Benedict collaborated with this other anthropologist on the pamphlet, "The Races of Mankind." This anthropologist focused on the Pawnee culture in her work The Lost Universe.
Patterns of Culture
Ruth Fulton Benedict
Gene Weltfish (or Regina Weltfish)
[missing]
Name this ecologist who conceived of "the tragedy of the commons" to illustrate that rational decision-making with regards to a common resource will necessarily lead to depletion of that resource.
Hardin's ideological counterpart Mancur Olson argued that organization is difficult because of this problem, where people do not have an incentive to produce because they benefit from the goods produced by others.
This only female Nobel Laureate in Economics and author of Governing the Commons disputed Hardin's proposed solutions to the tragedy of the commons by showing alternative methods of resource management successfully employed by communities.
Garrett James Hardin
free rider problem
Elinor Ostrom
[missing]
Name this text from psychology that posits the "eight stages of psychosocial development."
Childhood and Society is by this German-American psychologist, who also wrote psychological studies of famous men like Gandhi and formulated the concept of an "identity crisis."
Erik Homburger Erikson
Childhood and Society
Erik Homburger Erikson
Young Man Luther: A Study in Psychoanalysis and History
[missing]
Name this winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with Joseph Stiglitz and George Akerlof.
George Akerlof's best known essay may be this one, in which information asymmetry is discussed in the context of selling used cars.
Signaling, along with screening, are ways of reducing this specific type of information asymmetry. It is a situation in which undesired results come up in the market prior to the transaction, as opposed to its after-transaction counterpart that involves additional insulated risk.
Andrew Michael Spence
"The Market for Lemons"
adverse selection
[missing]
Identify this author of Blindness and Insight: Essays in the Rhetoric of Contemporary Criticism.
Paul de Man was one of the leading proponents of this school of literary analysis in America. Its French proponents included Jacques Derrida.
Derrida's Of Grammatology popularized the term "logocentrism" to describe the ethnocentric privilege that Western cultures give to this method of communication over all other forms of communication.
Paul de Man
Deconstructionism
writing (accept obvious equivalents like "the written word")
[missing]
Name this hypothesis that forms a central component of many intergroup theories.
A favorable condition for the contact hypothesis to work is having superordinate goals, which was demonstrated in this psychological experiment. In this experiment, Muzafer Sherif reduced tension between Eagles and Rattlers by having the groups find drinking water.
Pettigrew argues that the fundamental component in intergroup relations is not individual prejudice but the institutionalized form of this practice. This practice is the prejudiced treatment of someone based on them being part of a group. Affirmative action is often called the reverse form of this.
contact hypothesis
Robbers Cave experiment
discrimination
[missing]
Name this procedure by which a person determines the amount by which the utility of a future reward is less than the value of the same reward in the present.
The failure of humans to exponentially discount is evidence that humans lack this property. Agents with this property are utility-maximizing and perfectly logical, and are presumed to be the subjects of many basic economic models.
Despite being irrational actors, humans are thought to exhibit rational ignorance, which explains why they often do not participate in these events. Condorcet and Borda were early pioneers in the academic study of the systems by means of which these events occur, and the GibbardÂ–Satterthwaite theorem extends one result about their outcomes.
discounting
rationality (accept word forms)
elections (or obvious equivalents)
This model was described as a primarily educational tool by its formulator, since it does not account for numerous real-world factors the impact an economy. For 10 points each:
Name this economic model in which Gross Domestic Product is plotted against the interest rate, with a "general equilibrium" at the intersection of the two namesake curves.
This model expands the IS/LM model to operate in a non-autarkic economy. Under its pretenses, it holds that a nation cannot maintain a fixed exchange rate, free capital movement, and an independent monetary policy, creating an "Impossible trinity."
The IS/LM was formulated by this author of Value and Capital who worked with Nicholas Kaldor to develop a model of economic efficiency.
InvestmentÂ—Saving / Liquidity preferenceÂ—Money supply model
Mundell-Fleming model (or IS-LM-BoP)
John Hicks
[missing]
Name these advantages that businesses gain to due expansion, primarily because it has more output while its production cost decreases.
One way to obtain an economy of scale is to borrow from banks that charge a lower value for this, a percentage fee of the initial loan that is generally symbolized I in economics.
Businesses wishing to take advantage of economies of scale must be wary of this effect, the first identified form of social loafing, in which individual workers become less efficient as the size of the work force increases. It is named for its formulator, a French agricultural engineer.
economies of scale [or economy of scale; or increasing returns to scale]
interest (rate)
Ringelmann Effect
Answer the following about the field of game theory, for 10 points each:
This Princeton economist's namesake equilibrium is one of the foundational concepts of game theory. In that equilibrium, none of the players have an incentive to change their strategies.
This other prominent game theorist collaborated with Oskar Morgenstern on a namesake utility theorem. This man and Morgenstern co-wrote Theory of Games and Economic Behavior, and worked on shape charges for the Manhattan project.
One deficiency of the Nash Equilibrium concept is non-uniqueness, which was discussed in the book A General Theory of Equilibrium Selection in Games. That work was co-authored by two men who won the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics along with John Nash. Name either.
John Nash
John Von Neumann
John Harsanyi and Reinhard Selten [accept either]
Answer the following about the late UCLA sociologist Harold Garfinkel, for 10 points each.
Garfinkel was a student of this sociologist who developed the AGIL paradigm and wrote The Structure of Social Action.
Garfinkel broke with Parsons over whether the social order exhibited this characteristic, which is "bounded" in an economics theory of Herbert Simon.
Garfinkel's main contribution was a type of "methodology" appended with this prefix. It also prefixes a field of linguistics that Elena Berezovich practices.
Talcott Parsons
rationality [accept word forms]
ethno
Robert Nozick's Anarchy, State, and Utopia was written in response to this man's magnum opus. For 10 points each:
Name this American political philosopher who theorized "justice as fairness" in that 1971 work, A Theory of Justice.  
In A Theory of Justice, Rawls details this thought experiment wherein each real citizen has a representative and all the representatives decide together on principles of justice. A key component of it is the veil of ignorance.  
The second part of this 1987 Rawls essay responds to four "illustrative...but misplaced" objections to the title concept. The first objection is that the title concept is a modus vivendi, and the last is that it is Utopian and therefore unstable.
John Rawls
original position
The Idea of Overlapping Consensus
This idea posits that households will decrease consumption so as to save up for tax hikes in the future. For 10 points each:
Name this idea that government financing by taxes and debt are the same in their impact on aggregate spending,
David Ricardo put forth this idea that high pay would cause an increase in the labor supply which would then cause wages to go back down.
Robert Barro, a proponent of the Ricardian Equivalence, is a professor at this university. Gregory Mankiw is also a professor in the economics department at this university.
Ricardian Equivalence [prompt on partial answer]
Iron Law of Wages
Harvard University
Hume argued that there were insoluble problems in this type of reasoning, and the paradox of the ravens was meant to identify issues with it. For 10 points each:
Name this type of reasoning which usually involves inferring from particular instances to the general case.
To illustrate the "New Riddle of Induction," Nelson Goodman coined two terms for things examined before a time t that are one color, or afterward that are another color. Give either one of those terms.
The "knowledge argument" for qualia was further explored by this Australian, who described "Mary the colour theorist" in his article "Epiphenomenal Qualia."
Induction [accept word forms]
grue or bleen [accept either]
Frank C. Jackson
John Searle used the example of the sentence "Can you reach the salt?" to introduce his notion of the "indirect" variety of these phenomena. For 10 points each:
Name these linguistic phenomena that another thinker analyzed on "locutionary," "illocutionary," and "perlocutionary" levels in How to Do Things With Words.
How to Do Things With Words was written by this British ordinary language philosopher who critiqued A. J. Ayer in Sense and Sensibilia, whose title is a pun on this man's surname shared with a certain English author.
This student of Austin has suggested supplementing Austin's concept of the performative utterance with the "passionate utterance." He wrote The Claim of Reason and Must We Mean What We Say?
speech acts
John Langshaw Austin
Stanley Cavell
1. This essay begins by discussing the class of "no technical solution problems," and later concludes that "freedom to breed is intolerable." For 10 points each:
Name this Garrett Hardin essay whose namesake problem describes how a number of people acting independently in their own self-interest may deplete a resource necessary to maintain that self-interest.
In "The Tragedy of the Commons," Hardin refers to this economist, who noted how population grows geometrically while the food supply grows arithmetically in his Essay on the Principle of Population.
This 2009 Nobel Laureate in Economics argued against purely governmental action in resource management, and emphasized the role of local actors in managing common-pool resources in her book Governing the Commons.
"The Tragedy of the Commons"
Thomas Robert Malthus
Elinor Ostrom [or Elinor Claire Awan]
 12. Daryl Bem argued against this theory with his theory of self-perception. For 10 points each:
Name this theory describing the discomfort engendered by maintaining two or more conflicting thoughts, first described in the book When Prophecy Fails.
This main author of When Prophecy Fails ran a cognitive dissonance experiment with Carlsmith that asked students to spend time doing boring tasks while selectively compensating them.
Festinger's mentor, Kurt Lewin, helped found modern group psychology along with this influential but intensely strange Brit, who co-founded the Tavistock Institute and divided groups into "work" and "basic assumption" sets in his Experiences in Groups.
cognitive dissonance
Leon Festinger
Wilfred Bion
Name some voting theorists, for 10 points each:
This economist's namesake impossibility theorem states that a rank-order voting system can't translate individual preferences into a consistent ranking for the entire voting population without breaking a set of criteria that includes Pareto efficiency.
This theorist's namesake law argues that plurality voting systems tend to result in a two-party political system, while proportional representation voting promotes the creation of third parties.
This man's namesake model published in the Journal of Political Economy tries to resolve free riders through the concept of "feet voting," where people will move to areas that match their preferences for local government spending.
Kenneth Arrow
Maurice Duverger
Charles Tiebout
This author of What Life Should Mean to You also wrote a work about Claire Macht which includes the chapters "The Jealousy Mania" and "The Shock of Sex Knowledge," his The Case of Miss R. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who also wrote Understanding Human Nature.
One of Adler's most significant contributions to individual psychology was the development of this concept which can be worsened by comparing oneself to siblings or adults. Adler claimed that a child with this condition believes he will "never be able to compensate for his weakness."
This other psychologist piggybacked on Adler's ideas about inferiority, calling esteem a basic need of the individual in his work A Theory of Human Motivation.
Alfred Adler
Inferiority Complex
Abraham Maslow
For 10 points each, answer the following about social psychology.
The first experiment in social psychology was conducted by Norman Triplett, who found that performing this activity in groups results faster progress than when it is performed alone.
Another major experiment in social psychology was the Robbers Cave experiment, in which this psychologist examined the dynamics of two groups of randomly separated children forced into competition.
Perhaps the best known social psychology experiment was conducted at this university by Zimbardo, which had to be cancelled early due to the brutality of guards vs. the prisoners.
biking [accept equivalents, such as cycling]
Muzafer Sharif
Stanford University
Appropriately, this work introduced the notion that something could become so well known in a discipline that its originator would no longer be given credit when it was used. For 10 points each:
Name this text which originated such terms as "self-fulfilling prophecy" and "Obliteration by incorporation," the major work of Robert Merton.
Merton followed and developed this approach to sociological theorizing that rejects extremes like abstract theory. It relies on formulating theories that can be tested empirically with an eye toward constantly evolving a better scheme.
Merton introduced a paradigm of deviant behavior to model various reactions to anomie, a concept first explored by this French sociologist who wrote Suicide.
Social Theory and Social Structure
Middle Range Theory
Emile Durkheim
Name these things associated with a certain type of unemployment, for 10 points each:
This type of unemployment results from the time workers spend transitioning between jobs or searching for a job. It can be voluntary and, unlike structural unemployment, is not due to a shift in conditions in the labor market
Friction can be visualized on one of these functions showing the relationship between the job vacancy rate and unemployment. It slopes downward because lower rates of vacancies occur with higher rates of unemployment.
This law refers to the empirically-observed relationship between unemployment and decreases in GDP. One version of it states that for every 1% increase in unemployment there is a corresponding 2% decrease in GDP
frictional unemployment [prompt on "search"]
Beveridge curve
Okun's Law
It was created by the Rome statute and is responsible for prosecuting war crimes, such as that of Laurent Gbagbo.
Name this court established in the Hague.
This Dutch thinker and author of On the Laws of War and Peace is considered one of the founders of International Law.
According to a 1922 statue, this kind of precedent does not apply to rulings of the ICC. This Latin term refers to the idea that precedents are binding and must stand.
International Criminal Court [or ICC]
Hugo Grotius
stare decisis
[missing]
Name this Arab Muslim historian best known for his groundbreaking philosophy of history recorded in his Muqaddimah, or "Introduction."
After completing the Muqaddimah in Algeria, Khaldun became a judge in this city. This city is now the capital of a country formerly run by Mohammed Morsi.
This English historian claimed that Ibn Khaldun had no equal anywhere else in the history of the world. He analyzed the rise and fall of civilizations in his massive twelve-volume A Study of History.
Ibn Khaldun [or Abd al-Rahman]
Cairo
Arnold J. Toynbee
One member of this school studied the behavior of chimpanzees at Tenerife in the Canary Islands and published his findings as The Mentality of Apes.
Identify this school of psychology founded by Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Kohler, and Kurt Koffka, whose name comes from the German for 'pattern' and which emphasizes experiences as more than the sum of the parts.
Wertheimer investigated this optical illusion in which a sequence of images, such as two points of light, are perceived as if they were one object in continuous movement.
This principle of Gestalt psychology holds that underlying brain processes have structural similarities to actual experience, that is, brain activity forms a 'map' of the actual experience.
Gestalt psychology
phi phenomenon
isomorphism
Johann Friedrich Blumenbach posited five types of this concept.
Identify this concept which divides humans into groups like Caucasoid, Mongoloid, and Negroid.
This anthropologist argued that race and character are not interlinked in the first part of his treatise Race, Language and Culture. His other books include a study of culture's art around the world entitled Primitive Art.
This Nordic polymath argued that the human race could be divided into seven categories, such as Americanus, Europaeus, Asiaticus, Afer, Ferus, Troglodytes, and Monstrous in his book System of Nature.
race
Franz Boas
Karl (Carolus) Linnaeus or Carl von Linne
George Miller proposed a magic number of 5,7, or 9 as the maximum number of things a human can hold in the working type of this capacity. For 10 points each:
Name this mental ability of recall, which has "short-term" and "long-term" components.
The capacity for memory is often divided into three stages. The latter two are storage and retrieval; this stage is the first and consists of turning the material to be remembered into information parseable by the information center.
This German psychologist and philosopher proposed that one may retain more through repeated rehearsal or "over-learning." His namesake retention curve was developed by studying the memorization of nonsense syllables.
memory
encoding
Herman Ebbinghaus
In his book Elements of Pure Economics, he drew on the work of Antoine Cournot to develop general equilibrium theory.
Name this French economist, whose eponymous law states that excess market demand sums to zero.
Leon Walras, along with Jevons and Menger, started a revolution in economics named for this value. This value refers to the change in utility, cost or some other variable when one more unit of a good is produced.
Leon Walras formed the Lausanne school of economics with this Italian economist, whose namesake "80/20" rule states that 80% of the work is done by 20% of the population.
Leon Walras
marginal value [or marginalist revolution, or other answers that mention marginal]
Vilfredo Federico Damaso Pareto
The actual value for the demand for this quantity is proportional to the real wage rate.
Name this quantity that is defined as the measure of work done by human beings. It is one of the factors of production along with land and capital.
This quantity, which may be positive or negative, is defined as the salary or wage adjustment in accordance with the unpleasantness or desirability associated with holding that position.
One of the problems with labor economics is that this situation exists between employers and the labor market. Michael Spence wrote an article on signaling on attempting to get around it, which is defined as a state in which one party knows more than another.
labor
compensating differential or compensating wage differential or wage differential or equalizing difference
information asymmetry
He argued that meetings in coffee houses, public squares and other places in the marketplace constituted the title entity in the past.
Name this German sociologist who authored The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere.
Habermas is one of the foremost thinkers of this field of social science which studies the relationship between the social sciences and society, and how the objects of knowledge between the two arise. Horkheimer defined this discipline as a study of society in a way that transcends work-progress relationships.
Habermas's thought on truth was inspired by this school of U.S. thought started by William James, which seeks essential methods to understanding truth and knowledge.
JÃ¼rgen Habermas
critical theory [no other answer is acceptable, prompt on "critical" studies. ]
pragmatism
One thought experiment by this man considers lightning that strikes a pond to create a figure called Swampman.
Name this author of "Mental Events," who argued that mental states may in fact reduce down to physical states, though there doesn't necessarily exist a rule that allows one to infer how they actually reduce.
Davidson's position on mental states is an "anomalous" form of this school of thought, which holds that everything in the world, including minds, is composed of one substance.
Davidson also published an article on the "radical" type of this practice, whose indeterminacy is the subject of Word and Object.
Donald Davidson
monism
translation
These mental tools are derived from experience and are often used to overcome "analysis paralysis." They differ from algorithms in that they are not guaranteed to produce a correct solution.
Name these mental "rules of thumb" that humans intuitively develop to help solve problems.
This heuristic, proposed by Kahneman and Tversky, refers to the likeliness of assigning a set of traits to a population that most likely matches the trait set. The taxicab problem demonstrates its fallacies.
Many heuristics are subject to these situations, in which judgment suffers from illogical phenomena. Examples include the confirmation one, wherein a subject is more ready to believe information that corroborates his opinion.
heuristics
representative heuristic
biases
Its final part discusses how the implementers of the title policy end up living in decadent gated communities, but the rest of the world is subject to increased unemployment.
Name this book by Naomi Klein which argues that the policies of Margaret Thatcher and other capitalists is akin to the namesake type of therapy.
Klein's concept of the shock doctrine was inspired by this concept of Joseph Schumpeter, which implies that business cycles drive innovation and productivity.
In The Shock Doctrine, Klein accuses this school of economics led by Milton Friedman of supporting laissez-faire policies that exacerbate the economic problems of South America and other parts of the world.
The Shock Doctrine
creative destruction
Chicago school of economics
His writings include Conventional Deterrence and Liddell Hart and the Weight of History. For 10 points each:
Name this professor at the University of Chicago, who examined the reasons behind hegemony in his book The Tragedy of Great Power Politics.
Mearsheimer is a proponent of the offensive branch of this school of IR, which argues that the world's superpowers are maximizers of powers. This school stands in contrast to liberalism and axiomatically holds that superpowers are driven by self-interest.
A section of The Tragedy of Great Power Politics argues that superpowers do not wish to exist in this state, in which every power has the capability to completely annihilate the other.
John Mearsheimer
realism
mutually assured destruction [or mad]
Its final part discusses how the implementers of the title policy end up living in decadent gated communities, but the rest of the world is subject to increased unemployment. For 10 points each:
Name this book by Naomi Klein which argues that the policies of Margaret Thatcher and other capitalists is akin to the namesake type of therapy.
Klein's concept of the shock doctrine was inspired by this concept of Joseph Schumpeter, which implies that business cycles drive innovation and productivity.
In The Shock Doctrine, Klein accuses this school of economics led by Milton Friedman of supporting laissez-faire policies that exacerbate the economic problems of South America and other parts of the world.
The Shock Doctrine
creative destruction
Chicago school of economics
Examples of these items include hotdogs and hamburgers with respect to each other. For 10 points each:
Name this type of good, which replace each other in use, unlike a complementary good.
Substitution goods have a negative value for this quantity, which is defined as the percentage change in demand for one good given a demand change in the other good. For complementary good, this quantity is positive.
The Slutsky equation incorporates the substitution effect and the income effect to express the demand for a good in terms of the partial derivatives of these two economic quantities.
substitution good [accept word forms like "substitutes"]
cross price elasticity of demand [prompt on partial answers.]
Marshallian and Hicksian demand [Both answers are required. Also accept compensated demand and uncompensated demand]
This policy is illustrated using a diagram of three arrows, representing fiscal stimulus, monetary easing, and supply-side reform. For 10 points each:
Name this policy, which has been promoted by girls in Triumph International bras wearing pins with "2%" on them, referencing the targeting of a 2% inflation rate by the country's central bank.
Abenomics is currently being implemented in this country, whose prime minister is Shinzo Abe. This country experienced a "Lost Decade" in the 1990s after the bursting of a real estate bubble.
Some have called this planned event, on which Japan is forecasting expenditures of eight billion dollars, as the "fourth arrow" of Abe's economic plans.
Abenomics [accept equivalents like Abe Shinzo's economic policy]
Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]
2020 Olympics [or Tokyo Olympics; or anything indicating that the Olympics are coming to Japan; prompt on just "Olympics"]
The economic calculation problem was formulated as a critique of this economic system by Ludwig von Mises, after which he titled one of his books. For 10 points each:
Name this system of government that is paired with capitalism and democracy in the title of a Joseph Schumpeter book. The second "S" in the U.S.S.R. stood for this system, a version of which has been enacted in Scandinavia.
Ludwig von Mises was an economist from this heterodox school of economics associated with libertarianism. Also including Friedrich von Hayek, one of its theories is that business cycles occur due to central bank policies.
The economic calculation problem occurs because prices set by central planners are unable to perform this function as effectively as they would in a free market. Michael Spence created a model of this in the job market.
socialism [accept word forms; do not accept communism]
Austrian School
signalling
For 10 points each, name some eponymous laws from the social sciences.
This law describes the evolution of stops and fricatives in the Proto-Indo-European language. It is named after a German philologist who also collected some fairy tales along with his brother.
A financial consultant under Mary I and Elizabeth I lends his name to this economic law that states that bad money drives out good, meaning that undervalued currency will be disproportionately hoarded.
This law explains that the most commonly occurring word in a language appears twice as frequently as the next most commonly occurring word, three times as frequently as the most commonly occurring word after that, and so on.
Grimm's law
Gresham's law
Zipf's law
For 10 points each, name these locations that were the subject of anthropological studies.
Bronislaw Malinowski is best known for his fieldwork amongst the people of this Pacific archipelago. It became the subject of his book Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
Franz Boas traveled to an island in this country after receiving his doctorate, spending much time on its native peoples' material culture and describing a game called Nuglutang. Robert Flaherty's Nanook of the North is set here.
Reo Fortune wrote about the "Sorcerers of" this island, explaining the role of male practitioners of the so-called "black art" in society.
Trobriand Islands
Canada
Dobu Island
This term refers to the psychological ability to make intuitive, often correct, decisions based on a small amount of available information. For 10 points each:
Name this effect showcased in the experiments of Nalini Ambady and Robert Rosenthal as well as in John Gottman's ability to tell if married couples will get a divorce from watching them interact for a few minutes.
Thin-slicing is discussed in the book Blink, which was written by this pop psychologist who also penned Outliers and The Tipping Point.
One study by Nalini Ambady linked sadness to a decreased ability to thin-slice. Sadness is one of these constructs, that, psychologically, are the subject of the James-Lange, Cannon-Bard, and two factor theories.
thin-slicing
Malcolm Gladwell
emotions
For 10 points each, name the following things about Lloyd's of London.
Lloyd's is best known as one of the world's largest markets for this service. Other providers of this service include Nationwide, Travelers, and AIG.
These private investors back policies by risking their personal wealth and paying off claims. A liabilities dispute recently caused many of these people to declare bankruptcy.
Those disputes centered around the risk of  this substance, which comes in blue and brown types. It is now commonly replaced with fiber glass wool for use in insulation.
insurance
names
asbestos
Kurt Schneider classified a number of first rank symptoms of this disorder. For 10 points each:
Name this disorder whose sufferers usually experience delusions and hallucinations. It comes in paranoid and catatonic types and takes its name from the Greek for "split mind."
Eliminating subtypes of schizophrenia and requiring two rather than one class of symptoms were some of the changes made in the DSM published in 2013, which had this number. The OCEAN model of personality has this many factors, and Michael Porter developed a model of business strategy based on this many forces.
This psychologist is best known for conducting an experiment in which eight people faked having visions to gain admittance into psychiatric hospitals. Seven were diagnosed with schizophrenia.
schizophrenia
five
David Rosenhan
A 1957 paper by Evelyn Hooker argued that the false perception of a correlation between this orientation and mental illness led to it being classified as a mental disorder. For 10 points each:
Name this sexual orientation, which was removed from the DSM in 1973.
This pair of sexologists ran a program whose aim was to convert homosexuals to heterosexuality in the late 60s and early 70s. In 1978, they founded a namesake institute in St. Louis.
This man's namesake scale ranks sexual orientation on a scale from 0 to 6, where 6 is exclusively homosexual. He also wrote Sexual Behavior in the Human Male and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female, known as his "reports."
homosexuality [accept equivalents]
William H. Masters and Virginia E. Johnson
Alfred Kinsey
 Two answers required. These two Harvard economists came under fire for exclusion of data and for misrepresenting summary statistics after they published a paper that was used to justify austerity measures. For 10 points each:
All or nothing, name this duo who analyzed "Eight Centuries of Financial Folly" in their book This Time Is Different.
Reinhart and Rogoff's most notable work argued that this parameter was slowed in times of debt. The Solow model concerns this phenomenon, which represents the expansion of an economy over time.
This economist claimed that Reinhart and Rogoff neglected the importance of profits that arise from monopolistic causes in This Time Is Different in one article from his blog The Conscience of a Liberal.
Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff
economic growth
Paul Krugman
The Stigler Committee noted an upward bias in many of these entities produced by the U.S. government due to a failure to account for the impact of trends in the quality of goods. For 10 points each:
Name these economic constructs, one example of which averages the costs of various household goods and is known as the "consumer" one. They are often used to compute inflation rates.
The two most common price index formulas are the Paasche Index and this index, named after an economist who helped to legitimize business administration as a field of study.
The average of the Paasche and Laspeyresindices is named for Francis Edgeworth and this economist. He wrote a popular textbook in Britain, Principles of Economics, and names a type of demand that is not the Hicksian Demand.
price index
Etienne Laspeyres
Alfred Marshall
Answer some questions about fallacies, for 10 points each.
The "naturalistic fallacy" was proposed by in Principia Ethica, a book by this British philosopher who defended common sense.
This is an argument which personally attacks the opponent rather than their arguments.
Named for a joke about someone who paints a target on a barn after blasting it with bullets, this fallacy occurs when someone finds a pattern in a small subset of the available data, without having formulated an ex ante hypothesis.
George Edward Moore
ad hominem argument
Texas sharpshooter fallacy
Answer some questions about media theory, for 10 points each.
This nephew of Sigmund Freud is known as "the father of public relations," in part for his promotion of the use of propaganda. He is the subject of the Adam Curtis documentary The Century of the Self.
This Canadian media theorist coined the phrase "global village" and wrote books like The Gutenberg Galaxy and Understanding Media.
McLuhan is also famous for his statement that "the medium is" this, indicating that the content of this is influenced by the medium in which it is expressed.
Edward Bernays
Marshall McLuhan
the message
For 10 points each, name some stuff about child psychology.
This Swiss psychologist was a proponent of the constructivist theory of learning. He also theorized a theory of cognitive development in which children pass through four stages, including the sensorimotor and preoperational.
According to Piaget, this concept arises in children at the end of the sensorimotor stage and progresses in six stages in which circular reactions are developed. When absent, it can explain A-not-B errors.
This psychologist created a model of eight stages of psychosocial development in which the desirable results in each step are referred to as "virtues."
Jean Piaget
object permanence
Erik Erikson
After college graduation, this man served as the principal and janitor for a one-room school he dubbed the Batesburg Institute. For 10 points each:
 Name this behaviorist psychologist who conducted an experiment in which he made a child known as Little Albert develop a phobia of a white rat.
Watson was assisted in the Little Albert experiment by this grad student assistant. Watson later left Johns Hopkins after having an affair with this woman, whom he married shortly after.
Martin Seligman challenged some theories of behaviorism by coming up with this theory, which he developed after a series of experiments involving giving dogs electric shocks.
John Broadus Watson
Rosalie Rayner
 learned helplessness
A short essay that describes this type of person mentions that shaving is "a masochistic rite which seems to have been derived from either Sumer or ancient Egypt." For 10 points each:
Name this person described by Ralph Linton in an essay that ends by describing how, "if he is a good conservative citizen, thank a Hebrew deity in an Indo-European language that he is 100%" this.
Linton's work comes up in a piece on "Body Ritual among" these people, whose bathrooms are called shrines and potty-training techniques are described as initiations into a mystery by Horace Miner.
 "Body Ritual among the Nacirema" is written in the style of this kind of work common to cultural anthropology, which usually follows fieldwork and extensive study of a society.
American
Nacirema
ethnography
For 10 points each, give these things from psychology that were named after the university at which they were created.
Philip Zimbardo divided participants in this experiment into roles of inmate or guard. Though scheduled to run for two weeks, it was stopped after six days.
Originally developed by Starke Hathaway and J.C. McKinley, this test, which now consists of 567 true-false questions, is designed to evaluate patients on ten clinical subscales of "abnormal" behavior.
The somatic marker hypothesis was developed to explain the results of this experiment, in which participants draw from decks of cards with varying long-term expected values.
Stanford Prison Experiment
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory [or MMPI-2]
Iowa Gambling Task
Answer these questions about international relations theory, for 10 points each.
One famous theory in IR is the idea that two countries with this form of this government will never go to war with one another, its namesake "peace theory." Citizens in countries with this system can vote against politicians who wage unpopular war.
 In modern IR parlance, this type of world features only one hegemon or superpower with no empire and no competition. IR theorists debate whether the post-Cold War US anchors a world of this type.
This activity studied by Kenneth Waltz is the affixing of smaller or weaker states with existing great powers. In balance-of-power theory, this activity is contrasted with balancing.
democracy [or democratic republics]
unipolar world
bandwagoning
Karl Marx originated this sociological field. For 10 points each:
Name this field of sociology which examines coercion in maintaining social order. According to it, social inequalities result from the ruling powers holding on to their advantages.
Conflict theorists want to change the status quo, unlike proponents of this other sociological approach, such as Parsons and Merton, who see society as a complex machine made up of many parts.
Herbert Spencer, a proto-structural functionalist, is best known for this four-word phrase summing up natural selection. This phrase's intent has been twisted by Social Darwinists.
social conflict theory
structural functionalism [or word forms]
survival of the fittest
This type of policy is pursued by central banks when interest rates are near zero. For 10 points each:
Name this policy by which central banks attempt to stimulate the economy by pumping money into the economy by purchasing government bonds.
Quantitative easing is sometimes proposed as a solution to escape this situation in which interest rates are low and savings rates are high, causing monetary policy to be ineffective.
This economist and New York Times columnist argued that Japan was in a liquidity trap in the 1990s in his book The Return of Depression Economics. He also proposed a "new economic geography" to explain the location of new jobs and increasing rates of urbanization.
quantitative easing [or QE]
liquidity trap
Paul Krugman
The Phillips Curve relates this quantity to unemployment. For 10 points each:
Name this economic term that describes the collective increase in prices over time.
One theory on the cause of inflation is this idea that the price-wage spiral causes inflation due to the increase in the price of wages and raw materials.
This American economist questioned the assumptions behind the Phillips Curve, claiming that workers can't be frequently fooled by changes in government policies with his "policy ineffectiveness proposition." He developed the theory of rational expectations.
 inflation
cost-push inflation
Robert Lucas
It begins when the infant achieves object permanence, the comprehension that items exist even when they cannot be seen. For 10 points each:
Name this developmental phase occurring between a child's second and seventh years that is characterized by "centration" and "egocentrism."
Preoperational is the second phase in this Swiss psychologist's four-stage model of cognitive development.
 In this sub-stage of the preoperational stage, a child is able to use an ability generalized from object permanence and formulate objects that are not immediately present .
preoperational
Jean Piaget
symbolic function
Answer the following about memory research, for 10 points each.
Recent research has questioned whether these exceptionally detailed memories of important events, such as seeing 9/11, are actually any different from other memories.
This process occurs when a person speaks made-up information about their memories without any intention to lie or consciousness of what they're doing. Amnesiacs with Korsakoff's syndrome often do this.
A story about a 5-year-old child in this situation was used in a study by Elizabeth Loftus to show that priming and suggestion often lead people to report false memories.
flashbulb memories
confabulation [or confabulating]
the child was lost in the mall [accept any answer involving a child being separated from his/her family and/or unaware of his/her location within a shopping center]
This quantity, multiplied by the money supply, is equal to the price level multiplied by aggregate output. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity that Irving Fisher claimed was constant in the short-run. It represents the number of times a dollar might change hands in the economy.
This economist critiqued Fisher, arguing that the velocity of money varied with the interest rate, with the theory of "liquidity preference" found in his General Theory.
Along with William Baumol, this economist developed a Keynesian model predicting the number of bank trips a consumer will make per year. His "q" is equal to an asset's market value over its replacement cost.
 the velocity of money [or the velocity of circulation; prompt on velocity]
John Maynard Keynes
James Tobin
The tools used in this experiment were painted like cartoon clowns and weighted at the bottom so that they would return to an upright position after being knocked down. For 10 points each:
 Name this experiment conducted by Albert Bandura in which children mimicked the behavior of adults who attacked the namesake figures.
Another experiment involving dolls was conducted by this husband-wife team who showed that black children in the segregated South preferred white dolls to black dolls, with many children viewing the black doll as "bad." This couple's research was a key component of the plaintiffs' arguments in Brown v. Board of Education.
Iowa schoolteacher Jane Elliott conducted an experiment on her third grade class in response to the Martin Luther King assassination in which she segregated her class based on this factor.
Bobo Doll experiment
Kenneth and Mamie Clark
eye color [or having blue or brown eyes]
This language is loosely divided into fus-ha and ammiyaat forms. For 10 points each:
Name this language, which was classically written in Kufic script, and is read from right to left.
This is the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, preceding "baa." It is also the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet.
These parts of speech in Arabic are governed by fairly complex rules. The Arabic word for this part of speech is fi'il, and it is divided into maadhi, mudaari', and 'amr forms.
Arabic [or Al-Lughat Al-Arabiyyah]
aleph [or alif]
verbs
This language is also known as "castellano." For 10 points each:
Name this Romance language that originated in Castile and is spoken in twenty countries in the Americas.
In Spanish, the past tense can be conjugated in this aspect, which mainly expresses ongoing past actions.
In Paraguay, Spanish is a co-official language along with this language, an indigenous South American language spoken by a majority of the population.
Spanish [or espanol]
imperfect [or imperfecto; do not accept "preterite" or "preterito"]
Guarani
This man was the teacher of Hortense Powdermaker. For 10 points each:
Name this linguist who taught at the University of Chicago and Yale. He is best known for lending his name to the principle of linguistic relativity with his student.
Sapir studied the extinct Yana language which was primarily spoken in this modern day country. One of its speakers was Ishi.
Sapir said one of the hardest languages to work with was Dene, a variant of this North American language family whose individual languages are spoken throughout Canada, the Northwest, and Mexico. Forms of this language family include Navajo and Western Apache.
Edward Sapir
the United States of America [or U.S.A.; or America; prompt on California]
Athabaskan [or Athapaskan; or Northern Athabaskan; or Pacific Coast Athabaskan; or Southern Athabaskan]
The most elaborate form of this ceremony was practiced by the Kwakiutl, and it was often used by those who had suffered public embarrassment to save face. For 10 points each:
Name this ritual practiced by American Indians in the Pacific Northwest which involved the distribution of property and gifts.
This man succeeded his uncle Emile Durkheim as editor of the journal The Sociological Year, and he examined the potlatch ceremony, Kula Ring, and other exchange rituals in his major book.
This anthropologist wrote Introduction to the Work of Marcel Mauss. This author of The Raw and the Cooked used the term bricolage to describe the ability of premodern societies to put pre-existing items to new use in his work The Savage Mind.
potlatch
Marcel Mauss
Claude Levi-Strauss
This condition was first proposed by Kurt Goldstein in his work The Organism. For 10 points each:
 Name this state of being "everything that one is capable of becoming," according to another psychologist, who placed it above "Esteem" in his most famous construct.
Maslow's hierarchy of needs was first proposed in a paper titled for "A Theory of Human" this concept. Another Maslow work expounding on the hierarchy paired this concept with personality.
This reformulation of the hierarchy of needs grouped its levels into three categories, from which it receives its three-letter name. It was constructed by Clayton Alderfer.
self-actualization
motivation
ERG theory [or Existence, Relatedness and Growth theory]
[missing]
Name this type of culture that focuses on having a clear conscience and was contrasted with another culture in a study written right after World War II.
America's guilt culture was contrasted with Japan's shame culture in this work of anthropology
 This author of Patterns of Culture and Zuni Mythology wrote The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
guilt culture
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword: Patterns of Japanese Culture
Ruth Benedict [or Ruth Fulton]
[missing]
Name this 1970 paper by George Akerlof which discusses information asymmetry in which the seller knows more about a product than the buyer. Its title references a defective car.
The paper suggests that markets in which there is asymmetric information show characteristics similar to those described by Gresham's Law. In its basic form, that law says bad types of this item drive out good forms.
Years before Gresham was born, this man wrote a 1526 paper on the request of Sigismund I. This man's paper "On the Minting of Coin" described the principle of "bad money driving out good."
"The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism"
money
Nicolaus Copernicus
This economist discussed "The Nature of Search" and "Advertising" in a seminal paper titled, "The Economics of Information."
Name this economist who advanced the theory of regulation and developed the field of economic search.
George Stigler was a member of this school of economics along with Ronald Coase and Milton Friedman who all studied under Frank Knight.
Ronald Coase wrote an article defining the size of these economic constructs by the number of internal and external relations in a paper on "The Nature of" this. The standard circular flow of income model shows money moving between households and these constructs.
George Joseph Stigler
Chicago School of economics
firms
The "conceptual" types of these constructs are mappings from the source domain to the target domain in such a way that helps us think about, speak about, and understand the target domain.
Name these linguistic constructs that were discussed in a work by George Lakoff and Mark Johnson.
The "Linguistic Wars" were a series of academic disputes between people like Lakoff and John Ross and this man. He is the author of Syntactic Structures.
This other thinker also got into a fight with Lakoff over the book Whose Freedom? He is the author of works like Words and Rules and The Blank Slate.
metaphors
Avram Noam Chomsky
Steven Arthur Pinker
In the "pure" form of these games, both players prefer one of the two Nash equilibria.
Name this class of games that includes the "battle of the sexes" and the "stag hunt" games, in which players are better off choosing the same strategy.
This classic example of an inefficient Nash equilibrium is a game in which double cooperation Pareto dominates the double defect strategy.
This other concept from game theory denotes the set of allocations that cannot be improved upon by a coalition of agents. The general equilibria of an exchange economy belong to this set.
coordination games
prisoner's dilemma
the core
The Five Laws of the field about these institutions were published in 1931 by a thinker who created Colon Classification.
Name these institutions that are described as "organisms" by S.R. Ranagathan.
These identifiers can only be issued in the United States by the private firm RR Bowker, which sells one of these for $125. Since 2007, all new entries in this system formalized by ISO 2108 have had 13 digits.
The founder of library science in the United States was this Columbia librarian and professor, who has a namesake decimal system for cataloging nonfiction books.
libraries [or library and information science; or library studies]
ISBN [or International Standard Book Number; or ISO 2108 before mention]
Melville Louis Kossuth Dewey [or Dewey decimal system]
The "new" and "new new" theories of this process utilize the Ricardo-Sraffa theoretical foundation.
Name this process that is described by the Heckscher-Ohlin model and is classically predicated on comparative advantage.
This criticism of the Heckscher-Ohlin theorem was based on its namesake's findings that the US imported capital-intensive goods despite its abundance of capital.
These effects in New Trade Theory explain that transportation costs may incentivize production to concentrate near the largest market for a good where producers can utilize economies of scale. They were explicated in a 1980 Krugman paper.
trade [or international trade]
Leontief's paradox
home market effects [or HMEs]
In a chapter about the "structures and restructures" of the title entity, this work theorizes that the European imagination has romanticized Egypt and the Middle East.
Name this book by Edward Said which argues that the West has viewed the East as barbarians in the context of the title discipline.
Edward Said was a major scholar in this discipline, a branch of critical theory devoted to studying the lingering effects of imperialism. Frantz Fanon and Gayatri Spivak are other greats in this field.
This author of Islam and the West and From Babel to Dragomans engaged in numerous public debates with Edward Said, arguing against the theses of Orientalism.
Orientalism
postcolonial studies or postcolonialism
Bernard Lewis
This instrument is commonly played alongside clapsticks, and Lina Barwick wrote an article about whether women are actually allowed to play it.
Name this instrument which accompanies ceremonies like the Corroboree.
The didgeridoo is played by members of this ethnic group, who practice a type of incendiary agriculture called firestick farming. These people find Ayers Rock, also known as Uluru, sacred.
This American archeologist and proponent of processual archaeology studied the Aborigines as part of his effort to bring middle-range theory to archaeology.
Didgeridoo
Australian Aborigines [or Aboriginal Australians; prompt on "Australians"]
Lewis Binford
This movement gained popularity after Oswald Ducrot edited four essays that championed it in the fields of psychoanalysis, poetics, linguistics and anthropology.
Name this movement which argues that a system of unit symbols are necessary to interpret human culture. The book Mythologies uses the example of fish and chips reflecting patriotism and homeliness to argue for it.
Mythologies was written by this theorist, who also analyzed the "codes" of Balzac's Sarrasine in his work S/Z.
This other structuralist wrote works like The Raw and the Cooked in his Mythologiques and also wrote Tristes Tropiques.
structuralism
Roland Barthes
Claude Levi-Strauss
This thinker said that the title acts are moderated by other people, unlike operant behaviors which are moderated by the environment, in his book Verbal Behavior.
Name this behaviorist who did a lot of work on operant conditioning. Among his inventions were the air crib and a teaching machine.
This other behaviorist is known for positing that a "satisfying" after-effect of an action will strengthen an association, while an unsatisfying effect will diminish it.
Thorndike's Law of effect was tested by placing these animals into puzzle boxes.
Burrhus Frederic Skinner
Edward Thorndike
cats
Clozapine is a particularly good drug for this disorder, though it has the side effect of killing all of your white blood cells occasionally.
Name this psychological disorder which is the subject of Kurt Schneider's first-rank symptoms. Positive symptoms of this disorder include hallucinations and disordered thinking, and it has residual and paranoid types.
This subtype of schizophrenia usually occurs before age 25, and is characterized by lots of aimless behavior and nonsense speech.
This psychologist and developer of the Self System extended Freudian theory to schizophrenia.
schizophrenia
disorganized schizophrenia [or Hebephrenic schizophrenia]
Harry Stack Sullivan
One portion of this text states that it is better for a ruler to be feared than loved.
Name this short work on government by Machiavelli.
In The Prince, Machiavelli argued that this concept and fortune are necessary to be an effective leader. Machiavelli's Discourses on Livy argues that Rome was successful because she possessed it.
In a section explaining in what way princes should keep their word, Machiavelli argues that a prince must learn to act like these two animals when he is using force like a beast.
The Prince [or Il Principe]
Virtu or virtue
Lion and Fox [in either order]
With Wallace Friesen, then man developed the FACS system.
Name this psychologist and discoverer of microexpressions, which can be used to tell when people are lying.
Ekman developed a discrete model of these things, which were also the subject of Stanley Schacter's two factor theory. These states are reactions to outside events and include fear and anger.
The two factor theory of emotions posits that emotions are a product of both cognition and this other faculty, which is the psychological state of being alerted to some stimulus.
Paul Ekman
emotions
arousal
This project worked with a team led by Russian archaeologist Sergei Lukyashko.
Name this project which seeks to prove that the Azov Region had been home to a people who were driven out by the Romans and became revered as pantheon of gods in their new homeland.
The Odin project was led by this Norwegian ethnographer. His study of ancient sea voyages included building and sailing the Kon-Tiki raft from Peru to French Polynesia in 1947.
Thor Heyerdahl also theorized that "Long Eared" South Americans arrived before "Short Eared" Polynesians to this island. It is lined with its moai or giant carvings of heads.
The Search for Odin [or Jakten pa Odin; or Thor Heyerdahl's Odin project]
Thor Heyerdahl
Easter Island [or Rapa Nui]
The KOF index measures the extent of this process on a per-country basis, and Joseph Stiglitz wrote a book about this "and its Discontents".
Name this process, a worldwide interchange of culture, products, and ideas, partly through the spread of multinational corporations. It is heavily criticized by Vandana Shiva and Naomi Klein.
In Globalization and its Discontents, Stieglitz cites the success of Jubilee 2000 as one argument for this practice. The HIPC initiative will perform this action on a group of 39 countries.
This work by Naomi Klein, written after the 1999 WTO protests, traces the origin of brands from simply putting a face on a product to an attempt to sell you a lifestyle to an oppressive way to limit choice.
globalization
debt relief or debt forgiveness [accept equivalents saying that debt is erased in some way]
No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies
The GDP deflator is considered to be one of these quantities that are usually defined by a sum over a basket.
Name these economic indicators that try to measure inflation by looking at a fixed basket of goods in different time periods.
This economic idea states that an increase in nominal money supply will cause a proportional increase in price levels but will have no impact on real variables like total output.
In the IS-LM model, the effectiveness of monetary policy at increasing short-run output increases when the magnitude of this quantity in the model increases.
price index [or price indices; do not accept or prompt on "prices"]
neutrality of money [or monetary neutrality; or money neutrality; prompt on "neutrality"]
the slope of the IS curve [accept answers that mention both slope and either investment-savings line or goods market line; prompt on "slope"]
This author interviewed a bunch of Cuban revolutionaries in his Listen, Yankee.
Name this American sociologist, who is probably most famous for discussing how corporate, military, and political structures interlock to make the average citizen powerless in his The Power Elite.
This work by C. Wright Mills discusses the rise and alienation of a management-based middle class that has replaced a labor-based one.
C. Wright Mills's The Sociological Imagination challenged this method, which sees society as a complex system with many different parts that work together and sees society like an organism. Adherents include Robert Merton.
Charles Wright Mills
White Collar: The American Middle Class
structural functionalism [prompt on partial answer]
This thinker believed that only "true testifiers" or those who had witnessed battle should write military history.
Name this literary critic who wrote on the US's "great crappiness" in Bad, or, The Dumbing of America. This author of the textbook Poetic Metre and Poetic Form wrote a biography of Kingsley Amis called The Anti-Egoist.
Fussell is best known for a 1975 work positing that the main cultural product of this war in "Modern Memory" is a profound sense of irony resulting from the brutality experienced by men like Wilfred Owen.
Fussell wrote an essay thanking God for a device first used in anger in this city, since it saved hundreds of thousands of lives. John Hersey wrote about the aftermath of that action in this city.
Paul Fussell
The Great War and Modern Memory [or First World War; or World War One]
Hiroshima [do not accept "Nagasaki"]
This thinker wrote The Internet Age and the Information Age trilogy.
Name this Spanish media studies theorist who according to the Social Studies Citation Index, is the most cited communications scholar from 2000 to 2012.
Castells wrote a book about the rise of a society based on this concept. Modern websites such as Myspace are used to create a "social" type of this concept.
Castell's work The Internet Galaxy is a reference to this other media studies theorist who wrote The Gutenberg Galaxy, classified media into hot and cold, and said "the medium is the message."
Manuel Castells
networks
Marshall McLuhan
This problem may result in states being trapped in an arms race in which they spend more on defense while not gaining a relative advantage. For 10 points each:
Name this problem in which one state increasing its security may cause other states to become frightened and increase their military capabilities, which makes the first state less safe than before.
The security dilemma is a favorite of Realist international scholars who believe that the international stage is defined by this term. When this term is applied to domestic politics, it means a lack of government.
Proponents of Liberalism in IR argue that realist theories on war especially do not apply between states that have this form of government, though notable counterexamples include the participants in the Kargil War.
the security dilemma
anarchy [or the anarchic state; or anarchic environment]
democracy
The practices governing this system are inclusive to most society members in Dobu, but restricted to elites on other islands. For 10 points each:
Identify this system documented in a classic 1922 anthropology text, which centers around goods like red shell necklaces and white shell armbands.
This Polish anthropologist investigated race relations in Africa in Dynamics of Culture Change and examined the kula ring in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
This American anthropologist, author of Copper Town: Changing Africa and Hollywood, the Dream Factory, was a student of Malinowski. She documented interracial Mississippi in the 1930s in the study After Freedom.
the kula ring [or exchange]
Bronisław Malinowski
Hortense Powdermaker
This editor of La Critica espoused "absolute idealism" as underpinning his "Four Domains of Spirit." For 10 points each:
Identify this philosopher better known for exploring the link between intuitive and expressive knowledge and expanding the aesthetic theories of Kant, whose work was translated extensively by Collingwood.
A 1907 Croce essay is often translated as "What is Living and What is Dead in the Philosophy of" this German advocate of the dialectic who wrote The Phenomenology of Spirit.
Like Croce, this other leading Italian intellectual found himself on the wrong side of Giovanni Gentile and Fascism in the 1930s. This author of "The Revolution Against Kapital" is best known for his Prison Notebooks and for popularizing the concept of hegemony.
Benedetto Croce
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
Antonio Gramsci
This man singled out the New Deal policies of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration and the minimum wage as being particularly harmful to African Americans. For 10 points each:
Identify this Swedish social scientist, who may be best known for writing An American Dilemma, which played a key role in the Brown v. Board ruling.
Gunnar and his wife Alva wrote this other book, which discusses the Swedish government policies of housing and the title problem. It uses neo-Malthusian principles to argue that government policies should promote conditions to make it easier to have children.
Myrdal received his Nobel Prize along with this Austrian, who wrote The Road to Serfdom.
Gunnar Myrdal
The Crisis in the Population Question
Friedrich August Hayek [or Friedrich August von Hayek]
Criticism of this work has centered on a possible misunderstanding of the Maori concept of the hau, which involves an interlinking of spirits. For 10 points each:
Name this book, which divides the title concept into three obligations. This work posits the title concept as a form of "prosocial behavior."
The Gift is a work by this French anthropologist and sociologist, who was influenced by Malinowski. He was the nephew of Emile Durkheim.
This frequent French collaborator of Mauss's wrote A General Theory of Magic and an essay on Sacrifice with him. He also worked as an archaeologist.
The Gift [or Essai sur le don]
Marcel Mauss
Henri Hubert
One unusual study of this phenomenon was conducted by Nisbett and Wilson and involved a university professor with a thick accent being told to act "coldly" or "warmly." For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon in psychology that states that a person's general impression of someone else changes how they view their specific traits.
The halo effect is often most related to this particular quality of an individual. Karen Dion conducted a classic study of the halo effect and this quality by asking 60 college students to rate the personalities of the people presented to them in three photos.
One of the first psychologists to hint at the idea of the halo effect was this German, who wrote crazy philosophical treatises about the souls of plants, such as Nanna. He was a founder of psychophysics with Weber.
halo effect
attractiveness [accept similar stuff like being aesthetically pleasing, hotness, etc.]
Gustav Fechner
This psychologist argued that catastrophic events that happened to those in the embryo affected its development as part of his theory of genitality, which can be found in his book Thalassa. For 10 points each:
Identify this psychologist, who may be more famous for a work about the "Confusion of Tongues."
SÃ¡ndor Ferenczi was a good friend with this other psychologist, who wrote The Trauma of Birth and The Myth of the Birth of the Hero.
Ferenczi was a disciple himself of this psychologist who wrote The Interpretation of Dreams. Unfortunately, Ferenczi split from this man after they got into an argument on the role of sexual abuse in the development of humans.
SÃ¡ndor Ferenczi
Otto Rank
Sigmund Freud
These people believe that pregnancy is caused by balomas, the spirits of deceased ancestors or relatives. For 10 points each:
Name these people whose agricultural practices and usage of spells were addressed in Coral Gardens and their Magic.
Bronislaw Malinowski observed that Trobriand chiefs monopolized the kula ring exchange system. On this other Polynesian island, the subject of a pessimistic account by Reo Fortune, all men could participate in the system.
The Trobrianders used yams as contraceptives and for this other purpose. In ancient China, India, and East Africa, cowrie shells were used for this purpose.
Trobriand Islanders [or Trobrianders; or Kiriwinans]
Dobu Island
as currency [or as money; accept synonyms]
Well-defined property rights are crucial to preventing economic inefficiency. For 10 points each:
In a 1937 article, Ronald Coase argued that individuals formed these business partnerships in order to provide what they need without running into transaction costs.
This ecologist coined the term "tragedy of the commons" to describe a situation in which individual rational agents deplete a resource, despite a common understanding of long-term inefficiency, as in overfishing.
This Scotsman boiled down civil government to the need to protect property rights in his book The Wealth of Nations.
firms [accept "The Nature of the Firm"]
Garrett James Hardin
Adam Smith
A companion to this philosophical work was edited by Ralf Bader and John Meadowcroft, and this work's first section offers a defense of the minimal or nightwatchman state.  For 10 points each:
Identify this work of political philosophy which includes a section on income and justice distribution called the Wilt Chamberlain argument.
Robert Nozick's Anarchy, State and Utopia and this text by John Rawls were both monumental works of political philosophy written in the 1970s.  This work outlines the formation of a consensus through public reason.
This economist critiqued Anarchy, State and Utopia for relying on the immaculate conception of a minimal state.  He also wrote The Ethics of Liberty and Egalitarianism as a Revolt Against Nature.
Anarchy, State and Utopia
A Theory of Justice
Murray Newton Rothbard
The Engel curve plots this as a function of income. For 10 points each:
Name this property which can come in "compensated" and "ordinary" forms, which differ in whether utility or income is held constant.
Name this property which can come in "compensated" and "ordinary" forms, which differ in whether utility or income is held constant.
The income effect dominates the substitution effect in this type of inferior good, which means that its demand paradoxically rises as its price goes up. Real-life examples of these goods have proven hard to find.
demand 
Slutsky equation
Giffen good 
[missing]
Name this man who called "the sacred" the essence of the title entity of his Elementary Forms of a Religious Life.
In this work, Durkheim suggested that egoism, altruism, and anomie could all lead to the title act.
Durkheim used this term to refer to things that affect and are external to a given actor. In The Rules of Sociological Method, Durkheim gives religion, currency, and professional practices as examples of these, many of which may seem to be individual but are actually due to collective customs.
Emile Durkheim
Suicide
social fact
In a work titled for this concept, its coiner discusses mores, which he defines narrowly as the types of these related to societal welfare. For 10 points each:
Give this term which describes "habits of the individual and customs of the society which arise from efforts to satisfy needs." They are often formed irrationally, by chance.
This anthropologist wrote What Social Classes Owe to Each Other and studied societal customs and Folkways.
One of Sumner's students was this sociologist and economist who coined the phrase "conspicuous consumption" and criticized consumerism in his work The Theory of the Leisure Class.
folkways 
William Graham Sumner 
Thorstein Veblen
This psychologist conducted the marshmallow experiment, whose follow-up study indicated that those who are able to resist immediate gratification had higher SAT scores. For 10 points each:
What psychologist, now at Columbia, argued that personality should be studied in terms of patterns of situation-behavior in works like Personality and Assessment?
Mischel developed social cognitive theory with this Stanford psychologist, who wrote about the importance of self-efficacy in works like Social Foundations of Thought and Action.
Bandura is best-known for an experiment with children playing with this object, conducted with Dorothea and Sheila Ross at Stanford Nursery School.
Walter Mischel
Albert Bandura
bobo doll
For 10 points each, answer some questions about the voiceless alveolar plosive, the sound generally represented by the letter t.
Linguists have reconstructed the Proto-Indo-European t from its descendants using this method of historical linguistics, which analyzes genetically related words like the Latin "terra" and English "thirst" to determine the nature of their ancestors.
The t in the word "thirst" changed to its modern-day form due to this law which affected Germanic languages. It describes a chain shift from voiced aspirated stops to voiced stops to voiceless stops to voiceless fricatives. Its namesake collected German fairy tales.
One process affecting the t in modern-day English is this one, in which a consonant loses its place of articulation in the mouth. It turns t into a glottal stop in words like "button" and can also be seen in ancient Greek words like "hepta", which is cognate to our "seven".
the comparative method
Grimm's law
debuccalization [accept word forms]
International Shoe v. Washington introduced "minimum contacts" into the analysis of whether the personal type of this concept exists. For 10 points each:
Name this determination of whether or not a court has the right to hear a case.
Article III of the Constitution gives these courts subject matter jurisdiction over cases between citizens of different states. There are 94 of these courts, and their decisions can be appealed to circuit courts.
Sometimes the courts have every right to hear a case, but the plaintiff doesn't have a right to sue: for example, this issue, dealt with in Frothingham v. Mellon and Flast v. Cohen, concerns whether a certain class of person has the right to sue over the appropriation of funds.
jurisdiction
United States district courts [or Federal district courts]
taxpayer standing [accept anything involving the word "standing" indicating that someone who pays taxes is the plaintiff; prompt on "standing" or anything involving taxpayers alone]
.[NOTE TO MODERATOR: Please don't reveal the full title in the first part. Thanks!] This essay references its author's previous study of civic life in different regions of modern-day Italy. For 10 points each:
Name this essay that suggests the "re-potting" hypothesis and the growing number of women in the labor force as possible causes for trends such as decreasing voter turnout and the rise of "tertiary organizations" like the Sierra Club and the National Organization for Women.
This sociologist turned "Bowling Alone" into a full-length book of the same name. His other works include his aforementioned study of Italian civic traditions, Making Democracy Work.
Putnam refers to the value of social networks as "social" this. Alone, this word refers to wealth in money or other assets.
"Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital"
Robert David Putnam
capital
One participant in this study was given the nickname John Wayne. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment which saw John Wayne and others plan to break up a riot with fire extinguishers and another group of people refuse to give up their blankets to help one of their own.
This psychologist ran the Stanford Prison Experiment, which had to be stopped early due to emotional trauma in some of the subjects.
Zimbardo's 2007 book subtitled "Understanding How Good People Turn Evil", is named after what he calls this effect, based on his experiences with the Stanford Prison Experiment and Abu Ghraib.
the Stanford Prison Experiment 
Philip George Zimbardo
the Lucifer effect 
The first part of this work criticizes the claims that labor is the source of all wealth and that useful labor only exists in society. For 10 points each:
Name this work that claimed that legal equality is inherently unequal. It was written in response to a document produced at a party congress where the Eisenach and Lassallean factions were planning to unite into one party.
The Critique of the Gotha Program was a work by this German philosopher who wrote that "a spectre is haunting Europe" in his collaboration with Engels titled The Communist Manifesto.
In his Critique of the Gotha Program, Marx opined that the slogan "to each according to his contribution" was enough for the first phase of a communism, but that this two part slogan is more appropriate for higher communism.
The Critique of the Gotha Program [or Die Kritik des Gothaer Programms]
Karl Marx
"from each according to his ability, to each according to his need!" [or "Jeder nach seinen FÃ¤higkeiten, jedem nach seinen BedÃ¼rfnissen!"; give some leeway for word forms of ability and need]
The first part of this work criticizes the claims that labor is the source of all wealth and that useful labor only exists in society. For 10 points each:
Name this work that claimed that legal equality is inherently unequal. It was written in response to a document produced at a party congress where the Eisenach and Lassallean factions were planning to unite into one party.
The Critique of the Gotha Program was a work by this German philosopher who wrote that "a spectre is haunting Europe" in his collaboration with Engels titled The Communist Manifesto.
In his Critique of the Gotha Program, Marx opined that the slogan "to each according to his contribution" was enough for the first phase of a communism, but that this two part slogan is more appropriate for higher communism.
The Critique of the Gotha Program [or Die Kritik des Gothaer Programms]
Karl Marx
"from each according to his ability, to each according to his need!" [or "Jeder nach seinen FÃ¤higkeiten, jedem nach seinen BedÃ¼rfnissen!"; give some leeway for word forms of ability and need]
This paper puts forth a namesake "principle" which describes why the elderly have trouble buying insurance and how employers may use profit maximization, rather than prejudice, to justify not hiring minorities. For 10 points each:
Name this article which also mentions brand names and licensing practices as ways to reduce uncertainty in situations where trust is important, thus alleviating the problem set forth in it.
This author described asymmetry of information in automobile trades in "The Market for 'Lemons'".
The Market for 'Lemons'" shows that agencies tend to take over this market in underdeveloped countries because they provide trust. In a transaction involving this, goods or services are delivered and payment is deferred to a later date.
"The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism"
George Arthur Akerlof
credit 
The recounter of this story concludes that he wanted to remove the blame from himself in failing to cure its main character. For 10 points each:
Name this tale in which a woman has "organic troubles" and "extensive whitish grey scabs", even though the narrator's friend, Otto, has delivered the title medicine.
Irma's injection was one of these experienced and then interpreted by the author of a work which claims that it, like all kinds of these phenomena, is "the fulfilment of a wish".
This author wrote about and analyzed Irma's injection in The Interpretation of Dreams.
Irma's injection [accept equivalents]
dreams
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud]
The second volume of this work contains a series of translated and notated formulae, incantations which are given a coefficient of weirdness. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropological work which describes, among other things, soil-tilling methods and agricultural rituals among one society.
Coral Gardens and their Magic
Trobriand Islands [accept Kiriwina Islands]
Coral Gardens and their Magic
Trobriand Islands [accept Kiriwina Islands]
Bronislaw Kasper Malinowski
This man was banned from Indonesia after describing its political situation in his Cornell Paper. For 10 points each:
Name this thinker, best known for describing a form of nationalism in his book Imagined Communities, which describes the impact of the printing press upon capitalism.
A more famous anthropologist who also operated in the Pacific was this author of The Interpretation of Cultures, who wrote about his observations of a pastime involving animals as a way of demonstrating "thick description."
Geertz borrowed this term from Jeremy Bentham in describing how a large center bet among high-status individuals creates pressure to have the local pastime be as evenly matched as possible.
Benedict Richard O'Gorman Anderson
Clifford James Geertz
depth [accept word forms or deep play]
This relation holds between two words if they are co-indexed and one c-commands the other. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon whose namesake theory consists of principles concerning the distribution of anaphors and R-expressions, which explain things like why "Himself likes John" is not a valid English sentence. Its study is often linked with that of government
This author of The Minimalist Program also gave some Lectures on Government and Binding. His book Syntactic Structures contains the example sentence "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously."
A relationship similar to binding, called "control", exists between an ordinary noun and this null pronoun. In sentences like "Mary persuaded John to leave", it is the subject of the verb "leave", and it is written in all caps to distinguish it from a similar feature that can be dropped in languages like Russian and Spanish.
binding [accept word forms]
Avram Noam Chomsky
big PRO
One work proposes "organic mutualism" to reconcile this concept with society. For 10 points each:
Name this concept that John Locke called an inalienable right along with life and liberty in his Second Treatise on Government. It denotes the ownership of something, such as land.
This thinker said that property is theft in his work What is Property?
Karl Marx criticized Proudhon's ideas about exchange value in this work, which puns on the subtitle of Proudhon's System of Economic Contradictions.
 property
Pierre-Joseph Proudhon
The Poverty of Philosophy [or Das Elend der Philosophie]
Hans Eysenck used factor analysis to describe this entity, which he measured along three dimensions. For 10 points each:
Name this concept described in one theory by the Big Five factors
People tend to exaggerate the role of personality in assessing how others behave, an effect known as this error.
One test for personality is this one, which is often scored by Exner's Comprehensive System. In it, a subject interprets a series of ink blots.
personality [accept stuff like "personality traits"]
fundamental attribution error
Rorschach test
As opposed to companies in perfect competition, this type of entity can have market power, allowing it to set higher prices.
Name this economic situation in which there exists only a single supplier of a certain good or service within a specific market.
One measure of the power of a monopoly is the Lerner Index, which is calculated by taking price minus this quantity, all divided by price. When the Lerner Index has a value nearing one, the monopolist has a ton of power, while as it approaches zero, the monopolist has almost no power.
Another measure of monopolist power is this other index that is computed by taking the sum of the squares of the market shares of the major player in an industry. Values above .25 are sometimes considered to be indicative of imperfect competition.
monopoly
marginal cost [or MC; do not prompt on "cost"]
Herfindahl Index [or Herfindahl-Hirschman Index; or HHI]
Robert Moses's impact on this city was savaged by Robert Caro's Pulitzer-winning The Power Broker.
Identify this city whose urban development more famously saw a major public space designed by Calvert Vaux and Frederick Law Olmstead.
This author of The Death and Life of Great American Cities thought that urban renewal and Robert Moses were failures, and supported short city blocks and diversity in architecture.
This Harvard economist's The Triumph of the City summarizes his research into how cities allow for the spread of ideas and foster economic growth. He is a frequent coauthor of Andrei Shleifer.
New York City [accept Manhattan]
Jane Jacobs
Ed Glaeser
In 1962, David Cooper confined individuals suffering from this disease to "Villa 21," leading him to claim that a second form of it was being "transmitted" by patients to healthcare workers.
Identify this condition associated with a single-nucleotide polymorphism of Zing Finger Protein 80, which is treated in particularly resistant cases by the drug clozapine, which boasts an imposing five black box warnings.
A type of schizophrenia characterized by this state is often contrasted with the "paranoid" or "disorganized" type. This term refers to a general behavioral stupor and a near-total loss of motor activity, and is often characterized waxy flexibility, which is not nearly as zany as it sounds.
Schizophrenia and all other psychological disorders are diagnosed according to this APA publication, the upcoming fifth edition of which will be taking subcategories of schizophrenia away from you. It notably included homosexuality as a psychological disorder until the 1970s.
Schizophrenia
Catatonia [accept word forms]
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders(-IV)
Answer these questions about Daniel Khaneman.
Khaneman's work on affective forecasting studies the consequences of these psychological deviations in judgment, which include the "confirmation" and "hindsight" types.
Kahneman and Amos Tvsersky teamed up to create this theory for modeling "analysis of decisions under risk." This theory assumes that people who already experienced or expect to experience a loss are more likely to be risk seeking, while people who already experienced or expect to experience a gain are more likely to be risk averse.
Tversky and Kahneman found that this technique influences decision maker's choices. A famous example involves asking people to choose between saving 200 of 600 dying people for sure, or taking a chance where 1/3 of the time all 600 people will be saved and 2/3 of the time all 600 people will die.
Cognitive biases
Prospect Theory
framing
This man rejected the idea of tabula rasa, instead claiming that we inherit the experiences of our ancestors throughout their evolution.
Name this Swiss psychologist who proposed the idea of the collective unconscious and its constituent elements called 'archetypes'.
According to Jung, this component of the personality represents the male component of the female consciousness or the female component of the male consciousness, and thus serves to balance out both sexes. Either gendered form is acceptable.
Though not one of Jung's major works is a book titled "Psychology and" this practice, which is not "religion,"  but which he viewed as a metaphor for the individuation process or the growth of the soul, and which has led some critics to label him as too concerned with weird, whacked-out shit.
Carl Jung
the anima or animus
alchemy
Answer these questions pertaining to David Harvey.
Harvey helped re-popularize the economic philosophy of this former Young Hegelian, who co-wrote the Communist Manifesto with Engels.
Much of Harvey's other work centers on a concept inspired by a major tract by Henri Lefebvre, about people's "right" to this entity and its resources, and to change it for their benefit.
An "organic" form of the city was posited as the ideal by this author of The Myth of the Machine and Technics and Civilization in his best known work, The City in History.
Karl Heinrich Marx
the city
Lewis Mumford
For 10 points each, name some economists that have written on U.S. race relations.
This recently-deceased Harvard professor was the architect of Critical Race Theory and wrote Race, Racism, and American Law. He helped organized James Meredith's challenge for admission to Ole Miss while working for the NAACP's Legal Defense Fund.
This Swedish economist's magnum opus was An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy, which was cited by the Supreme Court as evidence against the utility of Jim Crow laws.
This Professor of Economics at Princeton, who considered the impact of FTL travel on commerce in "The Theory of Interstellar Trade," wrote a tirade against the Republican Party for its strategic reliance on racial divisions in his book The Conscience of a Liberal.
Derrick Bell, Jr.
Gunnar Myrdal
Paul Krugman
Identify these objects of derision, amusement, or mockery within the field of psychology.
Thousands of kids have gotten measles, mumps, or rubella thanks to discredited hack Andrew Wakefield's 1998 "study" claiming a link between the MMR vaccine and this spectrum of developmental disorders, which includes Asperger Syndrome.
Arthur Janov developed this goofy therapeutic system popular with celebrities in the 1970s, which arose after he witnessed a patient react violently when channeling childhood trauma. You can actually still go to LA and pay Arthur Janov thousands of dollars to subject yourself to this.
This huge idiot is often considered the father of the anti-psychiatry movement for his The Myth of Mental Illness, which claims that mental disorders are contrived social constructs akin to demonic possession or liking basketball. Scientologists enjoy quoting him.
Autism
Primal Therapy [or Primal Scream Therapy; accept word forms]
Thomas Szasz
Thinkers influenced by this school of psychology include Ernst Mach and Kurt Lewin.
Name this school of psychology that taught that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts and whose name comes from the German for "form."
This psychologist, one of the founders of Gestalt, wrote Productive Thinking and first theorized the concept while riding on a train and looking at a toy stroboscope. He is not to be confused a colleague whomconducted notable primate research on Tenerife or the other guy who followed those two around getting experimented on.
Another more recent Gestalt theorist is this guy, who is known for developing a system of therapy based on Gestalt. This man eagerly supplied his subject with cigarettes while chain-smoking through his portion of the "Gloria Tapes," in which he, Carl Rogers, and Albert Ellis treated the same woman.
Gestalt
Max Wertheimer
Fritz Perls
Richard Morris tested for the existence of these entities by requiring rats to locate a platform submerged in water to which milk had been added.
Identify these concepts first introduced by their formulator in studies of latent learning, during which rats had been allowed to negotiate a maze with no reward; when the reward was introduced, the rats' performance improved.
The concept of the cognitive map was invented by this Berkeley psychologist, who expounded his research in his 1932 book, Purposive Behavior in Animals and Men.
Tolman believed that at birth, humans had only a set of biological drives, and that the frustration of collective techniques resulted in group identification and led to this human activity. The "Drives Toward" this activity form the title of Tolman's only other book.
cognitive maps
Edward Chase Tolman
war
Answer the following about some bold economic claims.
Robert Fogel took a break from all that cliometric stuff to collaborate with Stanley Engerman on Time on the Cross, a controversial work claiming that this economic institution was both efficient and profitable.
This famous British economist, who developed a namesake economic system relying on fiscal and monetary policy, warned about some bad things that might happen as a result of the Treaty of Versailles in his Economic Consequences of the Peace.
This George Mason University economist and co-author of the "Marginal Revolution" blog recently claimed that the American economy is in a long period of slow growth, the titular concept of his book The Great Stagnation.
(American) slavery [accept equivalents; prompt on "plantations"]
John Maynard Keynes
Tyler Cowen
This man co-author of The Atlas of North American English  recently released the results of a 40-year study conducted at the University of Pennsylvania.
Name this pioneer of variationist sociolinguistics, who discovered identity-related motivations for linguistic change in Martha's Vineyard and used rapid anonymous interviews to study r-less-ness in New York City department stores.
Labov's New York City studies focused on linguistic change at this level of speech, the smallest segmental unit in a language that can be used to contrast meanings; such contrasts of these units are often called "minimal pairs."
A given phoneme may contain several distinct phones, such as aspirated and unaspirated 't' in English; in that situation, such phones are then known by this term.
William Labov
phoneme [accept phonological]
allophones
This work defines the statement, or "Ã©noncÃ©," as that which gives speech acts meaning, and was intended to be an anti-humanist examination of the humanities.
Name this work which was written in response to the reception of an earlier work about the "human sciences" which examined linguistics, biology, and economics.
This other work by the author of The Archaeology of Knowledge uses examples of The Ship of Fools and Don Quixote to argue that a certain group of people have been subjected to increasingly harsh treatment since the Middle Ages.
Both The Archaeology of Civilization and Madness and Civilization were penned by this French thinker who described the development of penal action in Discipline and Punish.
The Archaeology of Knowledge [or L'Archeologie du Savoir]
Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason or [Folie et deraison: Histoire de la folie Ã  l'Ã¢ge classique]
Michel Foucault
Marvin Harris's approach to this field is that of "cultural materialism," which starts with the basic fact that all cultures create an elaborate social function to face the problems of earthly existence. For 10 points each:
Identify this social science that studies man with respect to the origins of his placement in society.
When analyzing cultures from an anthropological point of view, one may adopt this controversial approach to morality, which in one strong form, states that morality is subjective and can only be interpreted within a culture.
Many anthropologists divide artifacts into two types: tools, which speak about use, and this other type, which typifies a value within a culture. Along with signs, semioticians study these things.
anthropology [accept equivalents, like anthropological studies]
cultural or moral relativism [accept word forms]
symbols [no other word is acceptable]
This woman pointed out that the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster was not actually a tragedy, since "excess radiation is a good cancer vaccine." For 10 points each:
Name this author of If Democrats Had any Brains, They'd Be Republicans and Demonic: How the Liberal Mob is Endangering America.
In this Ann Coulter book, her masterpiece, she points out that liberals unfairly control the media, and that in all actuality, if you're a Democrat, you can probably get away with raping and bombing foreign nationals for no good reason.
Not surprisingly, just about every conservative pundit hates Ann Coulter. This conservative pundit called her newest book Demonic "irresponsible" during the "No-Spin Zone" segment of his Fox News talk show.
Ann Coulter
Slander: Liberal Lies about the American Right
Bill O'Reilly
The Cobb-Douglas function takes as inputs this entity and capital. For 10 points each:
Name this entity. According to Karl Marx, profit is the surplus value taken from this entity.
Labor and capital are both examples of these inputs of production. Land is another example of these, which sometimes also include more intangible inputs such as entrepreneurship or human capital.
Cobb-Douglas is a power function where the exponents of labor and capital will add to one given this assumption. This assumption states that magnifying the amount of labor and capital will magnify total output by the same amount.
labor
factors of production
constant returns to scale
The Cobb-Douglas function takes as inputs this entity and capital. For 10 points each:
Name this entity. According to Karl Marx, profit is the surplus value taken from this entity.
Labor and capital are both examples of these inputs of production. Land is another example of these, which sometimes also include more intangible inputs such as entrepreneurship or human capital.
Cobb-Douglas is a power function where the exponents of labor and capital will add to one given this assumption. This assumption states that magnifying the amount of labor and capital will magnify total output by the same amount.
labor
factors of production
constant returns to scale
This man first suggested the distinction between surface structure and deep structure, and he related changes in one to changes in the other through a system of transformational grammar. For 10 points each:
Name this MIT linguist who wrote the grammatical sentence, "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously," in his work Syntactic Structures.
Chomsky also developed this theory which suggests that all languages share certain properties and that children are innately able to learn the properties of language.
Berko and Brown showed children can perceive phonemes before they can say them in a test with these objects. Kids would say it belonged to them if it was pronounced correctly but not if it was pronounced in a childlike manner.
Avram Noam Chomsky
universal grammar
plastic inflatable fish [or fis if someone wants to pronounce it like the children in the study]
The Solow model of this phenomenon requires that there be no international trade and also utilizes the Cobb-Douglas production function. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon which can be measured as the increase in real GDP between time periods.
Economic growth is shown on this graph by shifting the entire curve outward. This graph is usually depicted as showing the tradeoff between guns and butter in an economy with scarce resources.
This theory of economic growth states that new technological knowledge causes growth. This theory contrasts with the neoclassical theory of Solow and Swan, and its versions include AK theory and Schumpeterian theory.
economic growth
production possibilities frontier [or PPF or PPC or production possibilities curve]
endogenous growth theory
This student of Schumpeter and Leontief argued in his most famous paper that, in times of prosperity, the economic structure of a capitalist nation shifts from hedge finance to speculative and Ponzi finance. For 10 points each:
Name this economist who argued that the debt structure of an economy can make that economy a deviation-amplifying system in his financial instability hypothesis.
Minsky's teacher Leontief found a violation of this model of international trade. This model predicted that the US would export capital-intensive goods but Leontief found the opposite to be true.
The Heckscher-Ohlin model itself builds on this idea developed by Ricardo which predicts that international trade will occur when a country has lower opportunity cost to produce a good relative to another country.
Hyman Philip Minsky
Heckscher-Ohlin Model [or H-O Model]
comparative advantage
Answer some questions about sociologists who wrote about sports, for 10 points each:
With Eric Dunning, this sociologist wrote about the male domination of sports and about how sports are not about relaxation, but about excitement, in his The Quest for Excitement. He also wrote The Civilizing Process.
This sociologist wrote about sports being a form of conspicuous leisure in his The Theory of the Leisure Class.
This thinker wrote about the title activity as a "spectacle of excess" rather than a sport in his essay "The World of Wrestling". That essay appears in his work which discusses how signs are transformed into myths.
Norbert Elias
Thorstein Veblen
Roland Barthes
Answer some questions about the sociology and economics of poverty, for 10 points each:
This Harvard professor wrote about how people in the inner city have been rendered without marketable skills due to chronic unemployment in his When Work Disappears.
Charles Murray talked the economic decline of white America in his Coming Apart, but is probably more famous for writing this book with Richard Herrnstein. This work discusses the effects of IQ on crime and poverty.
This Indian development economist and 1998 Nobel prizewinner discussed how famines were caused by inequalities in distribution in his Poverty and Famines.
William Julius Wilson
The Bell Curve
Amartya Sen
Korean is the largest of these languages, which can arise when all other languages of a given family go extinct. For 10 points each:
Identify these languages that do not have any genetic relatives. Examples of these languages include Piraha, Ainu, and the spontaneously-created Nicaraguan Sign Language.
A classic example of an isolate is this European language also called Euskara. This ergative-absolutive language also uses polypersonal agreement.
The Hadza language is usually considered an isolate, though the presence of these consonants suggests that it may belong to the Khosian family. Alveolar ones are written with an exclamation point before the letter.
Language isolate
Basque
click consonants
The rules of this field of linguistics specify grammatical relations by identifying the subject, verb, direct object, etc. For 10 points each:
Name this subject which concerns the methodology of constructing sentences according to the rules of a grammar, which more generally describes the arrangement of words in a sentence.
The rules of syntax govern parsers which can use various strategies like this one which looks at the input string and guesses small groupings like Det + N = NP which it builds "up" at the end to construct a full sentence tree.
This parsing algorithm uses bottom-up parsing and is highly efficient as it is Big Theta of n-cubed times the size of a specific context-free grammar.
syntax
bottom-up parsing
CYK [or Cocke-Younger-Kasami]
This man contrasted between planned order, taxis, and unplanned order, or cosmos, in his Law, Legislation, and Liberty, and advocated a free market for money in his The Denationalization of Money. For 10 points each:
Identify this economist, who asserted that central economic planning inevitably creates a tyrannical state in his The Road to Serfdom.
Hayek, along with Ludwig von Mises and Eugen Bohm-Bawerk, belong to this economic school. This school says business cycles are the result of inflating bank credit and that rational distribution must be controlled by the price mechanism.
This modern Austrian school economist and anarcho-capitalist libertarian believed that taxation was grand theft. He wrote The Case Against the Fed and Man, the Economy, and the State.
Friedrich August Hayek
Austrian School
Murray Rothbard
Answer some questions about contemporary popular nonfiction, for 10 points each:
This writer for the New Yorker studied the conditions needed for success in his Outliers, analyzed the role of the subconscious in Blink, and was inspired by a decrease in crime in NYC to write The Tipping Point.
This man contrasted between the instinctual System 1 and the deliberate System 2 modes of thinking in his 2011 work Thinking, Fast and Slow. He also shows how the optimistic bias protects from loss aversion in that work.
This author wrote about how humans incorrectly try to find simplistic explanations for rare events, and that outliers tend to have an extreme impact on the world in his The Black Swan.
Malcolm Gladwell
Daniel Kahneman
Nassim Nicholas Taleb
Identify some examples of participant observation in anthropology, for 10 points each:
This formulator of participant observation ethnography published several works about the Kwakiutl. He also debunked eugenics and racist notions of white superiority in his Mind of Primitive Man.
Clifford Geertz used participant-observation in his essay "Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockfight," which is found in this book.
William Foote Whyte lived in the slum district of this city to write Street Corner Society. Ron Formisano famously studied busing and desegregation in this city, which is also the setting of Sam Bass Warner's Streetcar Suburbs.
Franz Boas
Interpretation of Cultures
Boston
Efficiency wages cause this phenomenon, and this phenomenon has a "natural rate" according to Friedman and Phelps. For 10 points each:
Name this economic phenomenon which can also be caused by minimum wage laws and has its relationship to inflation displayed on the Phillips curve.
This type of unemployment occurs when a worker is in the process of moving to a new job. In the long term, it can become structural unemployment.
This economic model demonstrated that many inefficient equilibria, and thus many natural unemployment rates, exist in the labor market, when agents' choices to produce the namesake goods are affected by the choices of others.
unemployment
frictional unemployment
Diamond coconut model [either underlined portion is acceptable]
Karl Lashley attempted to find the biological center of this faculty, which he called the engram. For 10 points each:
Name this mental faculty, the ability to store and recall information. The Atkinson-Shiffrin model divides it into sensory, short-term, and long-term varieties.
George A. Miller famously showed that working memory can store this many items, plus or minus two.
A common method of measuring executive function, working memory, and attention is this neuropsychological test, in which the patient is asked to group items by the color, shape, or quantity of symbols displayed subject to ever-changing rules.
memory
seven
Wisconsin card sorting task [prompt on partial answer, accept WCST]
Consols are a form of these securities that pay coupons in perpetuity. Another form of them is equivalent to an annuity and is known as self-amortizing. For 10 points each:
Name these fixed income securities which, in one common form, are paid out at full value at maturity. These securities come in corporate, municipal, and government forms.
To determine the sensitivity of bond price to changes in interest rate, this unit is often used to measure changes in interest rate. DV01 is the dollar value change in price because of a change of interest rate by 1 of these units.
Bonds are rated by agencies like Moody's, Fitch, and this other rating agency. A rating of BB+ or lower by this agency indicates a junk bond, and this agency recently reduced the credit rating of the USA to AA+.
bonds
basis points [or bps or beeps or bips]
Standard &amp; Poor's [or S&amp;P]
This man's tribe was decimated in the Three Knolls massacre, and his remains were studied by Orin Starn for a book titled after this figure's brain. For 10 points each:
Name this last surviving member of the Yahi tribe, the subject of a work about him "In Two Worlds".
This California anthropologist, alongside his wife Theodora, recorded several hours of interviews with Ishi. This man also wrote the Handbook of the Indians of California and discussed the idea of the culture area.
Kroeber adopted this term, also used by Herbert Spencer, to state that culture is a living thing that cannot be subdivided into individuals. Spencer believed that developed cultures were "brains" while lesser ones were vestigial.
Ishi
Alfred Kroeber
superorganic   
Milton Babbitt
 Identify this psychotherapist and author of On Becoming a Person, who developed a humanistic form of treatment in which a patients positive potential is realized, called client-centered therapy.
 Rogers viewed this as the product of the fact that everyone exists at the center of a world of changing experience. Allport defined it using dispositions, and it is the subject of the MMPI and Meyers-Briggs indicators.
This other American humanist psychoanalyst attempted to apply existentialism to psychoanalysis. He was a friend of Paul Tillich drew a distinction between "free sex" and "free love" in his Love and Will.
Carl Rogers
personality
Rollo May
Zelig Harris extended the ideas of Leonard Bloomfield in this field of study, and Alan Price and Paul Smolensky developed the optimality theory of it. For 10 points each:
 Identify this field which was transformed by the minimalist program of Noam Chomsky. Semantics, stylistics, and semiotics are subfields within it.
Bally and Sechehaye compiled this man's notes into an important early text in linguistics. This man also studied laryngeal consonants in proto-Indo-European.
Sassure's Course in General Lingustics introduced these two components of language, one which describes the impersonal, ideal structure of words and sounds, while the other describes the actual use of language. Name both.
linguistics
Ferdinand de Saussure
langue and parole
This documentary takes place over the course of one year, and depicts both igloo-building and fishing. For 10 points each:
Name this documentary filmed in Quebec, about an Inuk man and his family. Its creator, Robert Flaherty, was criticized for staging several parts of it.
Nanook of the North was a classic example of this type of ethnography, which attempts to preserve and record the traditions of dying cultures.
One proponent of salvage ethnography was this anthropologist, who studied the Kula ring exchange in his work Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
Nanook of the North
salvage ethnography
Bronislaw Malinowski
 Frisch developed a measure of the elasticity of this, which compared hours worked to wages earned, and according to neoclassical economics its supply curve bends backwards. For 10 points each:
Name this factor of production along with land and capital, which is equivalent to the direct work done by human beings.
The classic example of this market structure is a single company that pays the same wage to all of its workers. This type of market has one buyer and many sellers.
This man argued that labor unions forming political parties lead to stunted economic growth in his The Rise and Decline of Nations. He also said that public goods will inevitably create free riders in The Logic of Collective Action
labor
monopsony
Mancur Olson
 This culture practices a type of "ghost marriage" because cattle exchanges determined kinship, and according to their mythology a hyena cut the rope leading to heaven, making people mortal. For 10 points each:
Name this tribe from the Southern Sudan.
The Nuer were extensively studied by this British anthropologist, who wrote about their religion, cosmology, and social practices in a trilogy of works. He also wrote Witchcraft, Oracles, and Magic among the Azande.
Evans-Pritchard wrote a work about kinship and this practice among the Nuer. In many cultures, this practice involves one party giving another party a small sum of money known as a dowry.
Nuer or Nei Ti Naath
Edward Evan Evans-Pritchard
marriage
The law of diminishing this states that the first unit of a good acquired gives the most value while subsequent units give less than the first. For 10 points each:
Name this quantity important in economics, which is the amount of satisfaction gained from the consumption of a single unit of a good or service.
Smith's The Wealth of Nations discusses an paradox of marginal utility about this substance. The paradox states that water is cheap yet necessary for life, while these objects are very expensive but largely ornamental.
Carl Menger's Principles of Economics was an early treatment of marginal utility. Menger founded this school of economics, which advocates using praxeology instead of mathematical or statistical methods.
marginal utility
diamond
Austrian school 
Name some American labor groups, for 10 points each.
This organization reached its peak under the leadership of Terence Powderly. Most of the rioters in the Rock Springs massacre were members of this group.
Samuel Gompers founded this federation of unions, which originally consisted of craft unions who were dissatisfied with the Knights of Labor. In 1955, it merged with the CIO.
The 1981 strike that was broken by Ronald Reagan led to the decertification of this union. This union also organized a sickout in 1970
Knights of Labor
American Federation of Labor [or AFL]
Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization [or PATCO]
Who doesn't love babies? Answer these questions about infant developmental psychology, for 10 points each.
This Swiss psychologist thought that babies must learn object permanence, i.e. that objects out of sight aren't gone forever, at the end of the sensorimotor stage in his four-stage model of cognitive development.
Infant studies using Fantz's preferential looking method imply that humans have this visual ability at birth. The fusiform gyrus in the brain is used in this faculty, whose impairment is called prosopagnosia.
Gibson and Walk created this apparatus to prove that infants have depth perception as soon as they can crawl. Despite their ability to crawl over a glass surface after a checkerboard pattern dropped away, infants did not do so.
Jean Piaget
face recognition [accept any answer that describes recognizing that a visual stimulus is a human face]
visual cliff
They come in American and European forms, with the difference between the two being the ability to exercise them before the expiration date.  For 10 points each:
Name these financial derivatives that specify a strike price at which a stock can be bought or sold. They come in put and call varieties.
This doubly-eponymous formula for European option pricing was developed in the 1970s and allows for delta hedging. Its notoriously long proof involves solving a differential equation based on the stock price following a random walk.
While Black-Scholes is used in the continuous time model, pricing options in fixed time is done via a binomial price approach and is often named for these three financial economists who helped to develop the model.
options
Black-Scholes formula [or model]
John Carrington Cox, Stephen Ross, and Mark Rubinstein [accept Cox-Ross-Rubinstein formula or model; prompt on CRR forumla or model]
Among the roles analyzed in this work include the "shill," who provides information to those people who only inhabit the "front" region. For 10 points each:
Name this 1959 text that uses a dramaturgical approach to analyze the social roles humans take during normal activities.
The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life was written by Erving Goffman, who also coined the term "total institutions" in a work describing these places. Â Dorothea Dix helped reform many of these care centers in the 19th century.
The term "symbolic interactionism" was coined by this student of George Herbert Mead who developed its ideas in Symbolic Interaction: Perspective and Method and Movies and Conduct.
The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life
mental asylums [or mental hospitals; or mental institutions; prompt on hospitals]
Harold Blumer
For 10 points each, name some concepts from game theory:
This well-known situation, named after a schizophrenic mathematician, occurs when no person can make themselves better off by making a different decision given that they know their own and the other player's payoffs.
These entities come in first-price and second-price varieties, the latter of which is known as the Vickrey type. Â The revenue equivalence theorem holds that the seller will always obtain the same revenue given a set of normal conditions.
This concept describes situations in which an agent gives information to a principal through a secondary means; it is often exemplified by Michael Spence's model of education in job markets.
Nash Equilibrium
auctions
signaling
Elias Poter is known for his advocacy of this method in which the subject is free to express his feelings without being bothered by questions, advice, or probing. For 10 points each:
Name this non-directive approach to psychotherapy which is meant to awaken the "actualizing tendency" in its subjects. Its principles were discussed in such texts as A Way of Being and On Becoming a Person.
Client-centered therapy was primarily developed by this psychologist who wrote On Becoming a Person and claimed that incongruence is caused by a misalignment of the real and ideal selves.
Another alternative form of therapy is existential therapy, pioneered by this man. He authored The Meaning of Anxiety and used the Greek concept of "daimon" as a foundation for motivation in his work Love and Will.
client-centered therapy [or person-centered therapy; accept CCT; accept PCT]
Carl Rogers
Rollo May
An essay about "The End of" this discipline argues that centuries of boredom will ensue because liberalism has surpassed communism and fascism and overcome the challenges of religion and nationalism.  For 10 points each:
Name this discipline practiced by Herodotus and Thucydides, about which Hegel published a series of lectures on its philosophy in which he argued that its course was guided by a spirit.
The essay "The End of History" was written by this thinker who considered the impact of biotechnology on the future of politics in Our Posthuman Future.
In this book, Fukuyama details his growing dissent from the neoconservative movement, questioning the concept of "benevolent hegemony" and critiquing the Bush administration's methods in the invasion of Iraq.
history [accept word forms]
Francis Fukuyama
America at the Crossroads:  Democracy, Power, and the Neoconservative Legacy
Parts of this book are titled after "Exemplary Little Girls" and "From Myth to Novel," while the first part of this book, "The Mystery of the Woman Cut into Pieces," begins with an analysis of a tale of a man who takes five successive wives.  For 10 points each:
Name this text that includes both elements of South American and North American myths, placing it in the middle of a series of four related volumes.
The Origin of Table Manners, as well as the rest of the Mythologiques, were written by this French anthropologist whose other writings include The Savage Mind and Tristes Tropiques.
A real analysis of the development of table manners in European society was analyzed in the section "The History of Manners," which forms the first part of this sociologist's The Civilizing Process.
The Origin of Table Manners
Claude Levi-Strauss
Norbert Elias
It is comprised of The Will to Knowledge, The Use of Pleasure, and The Care of the Self.  For 10 points each:
Name this volume that examines the "repressive hypothesis" in its analysis of the titular concept during 19th Century society.  It also looks at that concept in ancient times and describes the Greek and Roman attitudes towards it.
This Frenchman wrote The History of Sexuality.  He also penned The Order of Things and looked at "The Birth of the Prison" in Discipline and Punish.
Another man who studied sexuality was this author of Sexual Psychopathy, which studied several types of sexual perversion and deviation.  He is often considered to have introduced the terms sadism and masochism into general use.
The History of Sexuality
Michel Foucault
Richard von Krafft-Ebing
This work's fifth chapter focused on the Poor Laws, while its third chapter analyzed the causes of the fall of Rome from the perspective of demographics and looks into the effects of war on societies.  For 10 points each:
Name this book, first published anonymously in 1798, that asserts that the food supply follows an arithmetic growth model.
An Essay on the Principle of Population was written by this British economist who claimed that the geometric growth of population would cause future woes.
This disciple of Malthus's theories predicted massive starvation if population growth went unchecked in his book The Population Bomb.  He notably lost a wager to Julian Simon concerning the prices of several scarce metals.
An Essay on the Principle of Population
Thomas Malthus
Paul Ehrlich
The capacity of one type of this process can be increased by "chunking" smaller units into larger groups.  For 10 points each:
Identify this cognitive process whose working type manipulates information and maintains it for 3 to 4 seconds. That working type, assessed by the WAIS backward digit span, should not be confused with the short term variety.
The capacity of working memory was posited to be this range of numbers by George Miller, which he called the "magical number."
This man and Hitch proposed probably the best known model of working memory, consisting of a phonological loop and visuo-spatial sketchpad, which are both controlled by a central executive mechanism.
memory
7 plus or minus 2 [accept 5 to 9; prompt on 7]
Alan Baddeley
According to the Yanomamo, a caiman named Iwarame was once the only being to possess it, while, according to Navajo tradition, it was obtained by Fox after he opened his eyes while flying with a flock of geese.  For 10 points each:
Name this substance, the subject of a 1930 essay about "Myths of the Origin of" it in which those myths were said to constitute the philosophical output of early man.
This author of "Myths of the Origin of Fire" assessed how the totem bond can be stronger than the bond of family in the modern sense and how it has decayed in the Arunta people in his book Totemism and Exogamy.
Frazer is best known for this work that posits the central motif of the recurring sacrifice and resurrection of a king who represents a solar deity during the spring and fall seasons.
fire
James Frazer
The Golden Bough
This psychologist wrote about one of his patients, a boy who acted like a machine, in his essay "Joey: A 'Mechanical Boy.'" For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist whose books The Informed Heart and The Empty Fortress discuss the "refrigerator mother" theory of autism.
This 1976 work by Bettelheim emphasizes the importance of reading fairy tales in child development. It was criticized by Alan Dundes for not making distinctions between myth and folklore in certain cultures.
Bettelheim treated the subject of "Joey: A 'Mechanical Boy'" while working at the Sonia Shankman Orthogenic School at this American university. This university is also home to a notable school of economics associated with Robert Coase and Milton Friedman.
Bruno Bettelheim
Uses of Enchantment
University of Chicago
For 10 points each, name these social psychologists:
This man pioneered the concept of conformity by developing a namesake experiment in which participants were far more likely to incorrectly identify the relative lengths of several lines when they knew that their compatriots had given the wrong response as well.
This psychologist studied the autokinetic effect in an effort to show that groups can form social norms largely of their own accord.  He also conducted the Robbers Cave Experiment.
An early pioneer of social psychology, this man noticed that bicycle riders tend to go faster when in the presence of another person and measured the time it took for children to complete simple tasks when alone or when in the presence of another child.
Solomon Asch
Muzafer Sherif
Norman Triplett
For 10 points each, name these psychologists who worked with children:
This developer of genetic epistemology included the sensorimotor and the concrete operational in his four stage model of child development.
This man analyzed the idea of inner speech in his book Thought and Language.  He theorized the zone of proximal development to be the difference in what a child can accomplish with or without the help of an adult.
This psychologist's works include The Psychoanalysis of Children and Envy and Gratitiude.  She used play therapy as a replacement for free analysis in young children and is associated with object relations theory.
Jean Piaget
Lev Vygotsky
Melanie Klein
For 10 points each, name some things about some lesser-known counterparts of the Rosetta Stone, the Cippi of Melqart:
The Cippi of Melqart bear inscriptions in Greek and this language. This descendant of Phoenician used that language's alphabet and was spoken in North Africa.
The discovery of the Cippi of Melqart supported beliefs that this language originated from Punic. Over half of its vocabulary consists of Italian, Sicilian and English loanwords, and though it uses the Latin alphabet, it probably descended from Sicilian Arabic.
Punic and Maltese are members of this group of languages. In addition to the aforementioned Arabic, another well-known member of this only branch of the Afroasiatic language family not based mainly in Africa is Hebrew.
Punic [accept Carthaginian]
Maltese
Semitic languages
One work described this group's Social Organization and Secret Societies, while another by the same author studied its Culture Reflected as Mythology.
Name this tribe that lives on America's Northwest Coast, one of several to participate in the gift-giving ceremony of potlatch.
This German-American anthropologist did much of his work with the Kwakiutl, and his students included Ruth Benedict. He also wrote Anthropology and Modern Life and Race, Language, and Culture.
This collection of lectures by Boas compares the title entity to more physical aspects and more advanced civilizations, and explores why racial prejudices create such dichotomies.
Kwakiutl [or Kwakwaka'wakw]
Franz Boas
The Mind of Primitive Man
Written in the style of letters from a revolutionary, this work praises the health care and education reforms of Fidel Castro.
Name this 1960 work subtitled "The Revolution in Cuba."
This 1956 work states that "since Pearl Harbor those who command the enlarged means of American violence have come to posses...great influence" in its chapter, "The Military Ascendancy." It opens by discussing "The Higher Circles."
Both The Power Elite and Listen, Yankee are works by this American sociologist, who also penned The Sociological Imagination.
Listen, Yankee: The Revolution in Cuba
The Power Elite
Charles Wright Mills
.Early versions of this concept can be found in Ibn Khaldun's Muqaddimah and the works of Adam Smith and Ludwig von Mises. FTPE,
This graphical construct is at the heart of supply-side economics, positing that raising tax rates doesn't always raise tax revenue.
Another graphical construct is this one, which is made out of indifference curves. Named for the man who wrote Mathematical Psychics, it diplays the optimal distribution of resources among the two paricipants.
The Edgeworth Box is frequently used in General Equilibrium Theory. Another type of tool generally useful in GET is this one, two of which are named for Brouwer and Kakutani. This term refers to a theorem which guarantees the existence of a point  x for which F(x) = x.
Laffer Curve
Edgeworth Box
Fixed Point Theorem
Answer some questions about the Pritzker Prize, for 10 points each. 
The inaugural Pritzker Prize was awarded to this American, who designed a Glass House in Connecticut for himself and along with Mies van der Rohe designed the Seagram Building in New York. 
The 1988 Pritzker Prize went to this Brazilian, who created the planned city of Brasilia. He also worked on the Pampulha project, and collaborated with Le Corbusier on the design for the headquarters of the UN. 
2001's Pritzker went to this Swiss architectural firm who designed Munich's Allianz Arena and more recently Beijing's "Bird's Nest" Olympic stadium.
Phillip Johnson 
Oscar Niemeyer 
Herzog and de Meuron [Accept Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron]
Originally titled Why the Poor are Poor, it is often credited with coining the term "conventional wisdom".  
Identify this 1958 economic tract that advocates a shift in spending from consumer products to public services. 
The Affluent Society was the foremost work of this liberal economist, who also served as an economic advisor to President John F. Kennedy. 
Further advancing the theories from The Affluent Society is this 1967 Galbraith book.  It argues that the title entity is dominated by enormous corporations to whom the theories of clasical economics no longer apply. 
The Affluent Society 
John Kenneth Galbraith 
The New Industrial State 
In this work, the belief in luck is described as a trait of the "barbarian temperament." 
Identify this work of economics and sociology by Thorstein Veblen that critiqued consumerism and introduced the concept of conspicuous consumption.
In this other work by Thorstein Veblen criticizes the commercialization of the titular insitution because of the introduction of such concepts as prestige and relying on businessmen to run them.
Thorstein Veblen also wrote this work, in which he argued that because of the responsibilities of the predatory group, the boring daily jobs fall to the titular group of people, who are kept down by it.
The Theory of the Leisure Class 
The Higher Learning in America: A Memorandum 
"The Barbarian Status of Women" 
Answer some questions concerning the founder of Individual Psychology, for 10 points each.
This author of The Neurotic Character believed that humanity followed a Niestzchean "will to power." He also studied birth order and considered homosexuals "failed individuals."
Alfred Adler coind the terms for these afflictions, in which one believes that one's actions or characteristics cannot be as good as some other person's. 
Alfred Adler's work is sometimes contrasted with this man's. This psychiatrist of the third Viennese school wrote Man's Search for Meaning, in addition to The Unconscious God and The Doctor and the Soul. 
Alfred Adler
inferiority complex 
Victor Frankl 
Answer some stuff about game theory. 
This 2 person variable sum game is a game where defecting always increases your co-player's jail time but does not always result in reduced time for you.
This is a solution concept for non-cooperative games in which no player can improve his strategy without help from someone else.
Nash Equilibrium is impossible in this type of game, which is named for a British mathematician. In this type of game, no player has information about other player's situation or actions.
Prisoner's Dilemma
Nash Equilibrium
Bayesian Game 
This anthropologist collaborated with Baldwin on A Rap on Race and wrote the autobiography Blackberry Winter. 
This student of Franz Boas described, perhaps incorrectly, the sexual development of the youth in Coming of Age in Samoa. 
Mead was harshly attacked by this New Zealander who claimed that Mead based her book on complete lies told by the Samoan teenagers. 
Mead was for some time married to this American anthropologist who proposed the Double Bind communication paradox and wrote Steps to an Ecology of Mind. 
Margaret Mead 
Derek Freeman 
Gregory Bateson 
One of this Structuralist's works discusses the difference between synchronic and diachronic views, before discussing material and conceptual viewpoints. For 10 points each.  
One of this man's early projects was attempting to add laryngeal consonants to Indo-European Languages, but he may be the best known for his posthumous collection of lecture notes, Course in General Linguistics.  
In his Course in General Linguistics, this component of de Saussure's linguistic unit is most closely related to the conceptual construct or archetypal idea of an object and not the word or sound directly associated with it 
Another Structuralist linguist is this Americna man, who wrote about the "Linguistic Aspects of Science," in addition to his work Introduction to the Study of Language.
Ferdinand de Saussure 
signified [or signifiÃ©] 
Leonard Bloomfield 
One of this thinker's books is an experimental work which combines an analysis of Hegel with a discussion of Jean Genet. For ten points each: 
Identify this writer of Glas, who may be better known for such works as Margins of Philosophy, Memoires for Paul de Man, and The Post Card. 
The title of this Jacques Derrida work refers to choosing between execution, murder, sacrifice, or suicide. He expands and contrasts his theories with those of Martin Heidegger, Soren Kierkegaard, and Emmanuel Levinas, and analyzes Czech philosopher Jan Patocka. 
This 1967 Derrida work is a collection of such essays as "Force and Signification," and "Violence and Metaphysics," though it is perhaps best known for including a discussion of Foucault and Descartes entitlted "Cogito and the History of Madness."
Jacques Derrida 
The Gift of Death [or Donner la Mort] 
Writing and Difference or L'Ecriture et la difference 
Complementing the life-cycle hypothesis of Modigliani, this notion also builds on Fisher's beliefs concerning the relationship between consumption and current earnings. FTPE:
Name this hypothesis that suggests that transitory changes in wealth are predicted by most consumers, so consumption does not vary based on total wealth.
The permanent-income hypothesis was developed by this American economist, noted for his work Capitalism and Freedom. Oh, yeah, he's a monetarist who studied at the University of Chicago.
The main conclusion from the permanent-income hypothesis is that over a long period of time, there average propensity to consume should remain constant, as found in studies by this man, who won the 1971 Nobel Prize for work with economic growth.
permanent-income hypothesis
Milton Friedman
Simon Kuznets
This book was derisively cited in the Supreme Court Case Lochner v. New York. For ten points each:
Identify this work in which the author argues that adaptation makes equilibrium from society possible, and which derides poor laws in one of its chapters.
Social Statics exhibits the Social Darwinian thought of this British thinker, whose other achievements include coining the phrase "survival of the fittest" and writing The Man Versus the State.
Herbert Spencer also wrote this work, in which he attempted to gather together lots of different previous ideas, like the continuity of motion and the indestructibility of matter, and combine them with his own ethical thought.
Social Statics
Herbert Spencer
A System of Synthetic Philosophy
Name these linguists, 
Probably the best-known linguist today, he may be less known for works like Syntactic Structures and The Sound Pattern of English than his general advocacy of Universal Grammar, deep structures, and surface structures. 
Along with Roman Jakobson, this man was a leading member of the Prague School. He wrote the treatise Principles of Phonology, which is considered to be the first real text on morphology. 
This man is sometimes seen as the founder of sociolinguistics. Now at the University of Pennsylvania, his more well-known studies include dialect change in Martha's Vineyard, speech in a New York City department story, and works such as Language in the Inner City. 
Noam Chomsky 
Nikolai Sergeevich Trubetzkoy 
William Labov 
Examples include "overeducation," pollution, and the Tragedy of the Commons. 
Identify this economic phenomenon, in which a third party not involved in an economic transaction is affected either positively or negatively by the transaction. Coase's theorem asserts that these can be eliminated by participants. 
Externalities are discussed at length in this Ronald Coase work, in which he outlines his namesake theorem by drawing from a number of legal cases in Britain. 
One possible governmental action that could be taken to minimize negative externalities is to levy this kind of tax, which are sometimes necessary in cases where the market economies don't provide incentives to reduce the externalities. 
externality 
The Problem of Social Cost 
Pigovian tax 
Name these terms from classical conditioning, for 
This is the term for the response generated instinctively to a stimulus; for instance, a dog salivating when it sees a piece of meat. 
Once an association between the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli has been established, presentation of the CS without the US leads to this phenomenon, the gradual dying out of the UR when the CS is presented. 
Similar to extinction, presenting the CS alone before a CS-US association has been established leads to this phenomenon, in which the CS-nothing association retards the formation of the CS-US association. 
unconditioned response [accept unconditional response; accept UR] 
extinction 
latent inhibition
He identified readiness and exercise among his three laws of learning. FTPE:  
Identify this author of Educational Psychology and The Teacher's Word Book. 
Edward Thorndike is also famous for writing this book, in which he details the results of his puzzle box research on the cats. Work here would later go into formulating his Law of Effect. 
Thorndike also defined this cognitive bias, in which perception of a particular trait is influenced by the perception of the former traits in a sequence of interpretations. 
Edward Thorndike 
Animal Intelligence 
Halo Effect 
Answer the following about a man who contributed to more than just one field of study, for ten points each. 
This work, written in Celigny, reduces human action to residue and derivation, and discusses the concept of the "circulation of elites." It also divides resides into Class I and Class II. 
This man, known mostly for contributions to economics such as his optimality, wrote Mind and Society. 
Vilfredo Pareto created an oft-adapted rule utilizing this ratio, which Pareto originally argued represented the proportion of income that went to the proportion of population.
Mind and Society [or Trattato di Sociologia Generale] 
Vilfredo Pareto 
80-20 
Plato and Hegel subscribed to forms of this doctrine, and Kant devised a transcendental version of it. FTPE:  
Name this philosophical system, often opposed to realism or materialism, which maintains that knowledge of the external world is based on perception. 
This philosopher suggested that he would "at least refute Mr. Taylor's idealism," in his appropriately titled "The Refutation of Idealism." He is better known for opposing what he termed the "naturalistic fallacy" in the definition of "good" in his Principia Ethica. 
A prominent twentieth century Idealist was this professor at Cambridge and Hegel scholar. He is most famous for writing the 1908 essay "The Unreality of Time," in which he demonstrated how our understanding of time is built on a "vicious circle." 
Idealism 
George Edward Moore 
John McTaggart Ellis McTaggart 
Its major cities included Harappa, and it featured extensive city planning and the first known urban sanitation systems. For 10 points each: 
Name this ancient civilization located in the basin of the major river of Pakistan.
With a name meaning "Mound of the Dead," this largest city of the Indus Valley civilization was built around 2600 BCE. Located in the Sindh province of Pakistan, it was excavated by R. D. Banarjee.
The excavations of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro were supervised by this Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India. He is also known for encouraging native Indians to participate in excavations.
Indus Valley civilization
Mohenjo-daro
Sir John Hubert Marshall 
Identify the following concerning magic in anthropology, for 10 points each. 
Name this "study in magic and religion" of comparative mythology and religion, written by James Frazer, which takes its name from an object in the Aeneid.
Subtitled "A Study of the Methods of Tilling the Soil and of Agriculture Rites in the Trobriand Islands", this Malinowski work examines the role of the supernatural in ordinary tasks, much like the work that preceeded it, The Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
Being granted a boon, often of a magical type, was an important step in this author's version of becoming a hero, spelled out in his The Hero of a Thousand Faces.
The Golden Bough
Coral Gardens and Their Magic
Joseph Campbell
One of his contributions to the sociology of science is a concept whereby an idea becomes so popular, commonly invoked, and useful that its originator is forgotten. For 10 points each: 
Identify this sociologist who invented the phrases "self-fulfilling prophesy" and "obliteration by incorporation." 
Obliteration by incorporation, along with a lot of other concepts, were introduced in this best known Merton work. 
Robert Merton's thesis has also been applied to the study of anomie, which along with a book about Suicide was described in the work of this sociologist. 
Robert King Merton 
Social Theory and Social Structure 
Emile Durkheim 
This book's sixth chapter uses a namesake "Javanese example" to illustrate an important concept. For ten points each:
Identify this anthropological text, which includes an essay on an example of "Deep Play", which was illustrated in a Balinese cockfight.
The Interpretation of Cultures utilizes the concept of thick description, which was pioneered by this American anthropologist.
Clifford Geertz also wrote this book, about the titular "Theater State" in which all social interaction was performed as if it were being acted out on stage.
The Interpretation of Cultures
Clifford Geertz
Negara: The Theater State
This work demonstrates that the aphorism from which it takes its name originated with Bernard of Chartres, rather than with Isaac Newton. For ten points each:
Identify this 1965 study of academicism, written in the style of Tristram Shandy.
On the Shoulders of Giants is probably not the best-known work of this man, whose more famous works include Social Theory and Social Structure.
Merton also formualted strain theory, which extends this famous sociological concept formulated by Emile Durkheim.
On the Shoulders of Giants
Robert King Merton
anomie
