The first of three laws named after this author requires that certain beings “may not harm humans or allow humans to come to harm through inaction.” For 10 points each:
Name this author. One of those beings created by this author, R. Daneel Olivaw, extrapolates that law to all of humanity to formulate the “Zeroth Law.”
Asimov’s Three Laws govern the positronic brains of these beings. Susan Calvin is a psychologist for these beings in an Asimov collection titled “I, [one of these beings].”
Hari Seldon develops psychohistory in this series by Asimov. In the last novel in this series, Olivaw plans to uphold the Zeroth Law by protecting humanity through the collective intelligence Galaxia.
Issac Asimov
robots
Foundation Series &lt;Mixed Fiction — Gray&gt; [Edited]
These things are traded on foreign exchange markets, and the rates of exchange between them determine their relative values. For 10 points each:
Give this term that refers to a system of money used as a medium of exchange, such as the Japanese yen or the U.S. dollar.
Currencies may either be floating or referred to by this term. Currencies of this kind have their value tied by a static exchange rate to another currency, usually the U.S. dollar or the Euro.
Special Drawing Rights are a quasi-currency for this international organization, which tries to maintain global economic stability by stabilizing exchange rates. The Bretton Woods Agreement created the World Bank and this organization.
currency [accept legal tender]
fixed [or pegged]
IMF [or International Monetary Fund] &lt;Economics — Shi/Gray&gt; [Ed. Gray]
In a David Ricardo example of this phenomenon, Portugal produces both cloth and wine more efficiently than England, but it is optimal for Portugal to produce only wine and trade with England for cloth. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon that explains why it’s optimal for economies with the lowest relative opportunity cost to produce goods.
David Ricardo’s concept of comparative advantage explains why there are gains from this practice between countries. This practice is “free” if it is not subject to protectionist tariffs.
This economist’s New Trade Theory argues that trade occurs even without comparative advantage, since firms seek economies of scale. This economist and Robin Wells wrote a series of commonly-used economics textbooks.
comparative advantage [do NOT accept or prompt on “absolute advantage”]
international trade [accept imports or exports; prompt on buying or selling]
Paul Krugman &lt;Economics — French&gt; [Ed. Gray]
People tend to seek this thing when there is a small probability of a gain, such as winning the lottery, and avoid this thing when there is a small probability of a loss, such as a terrorist attack. For 10 points each:
Name this thing, the possibility of uncertain gains and losses. A lottery is a situation with a high level of reward and a low level of this thing.
Risk aversion is one of these fast but fallible mental shortcuts for problem-solving that might go wrong and result in cognitive bias. Two other examples of these techniques are named for availability and familiarity.
Prospect theory, which describes how people behave under risky conditions, was developed by this author of Thinking, Fast and Slow alongside his frequent collaborator Amos Tversky.
risk
heuristics [or heuristic techniques; prompt on rules of thumb]
Daniel Kahneman &lt;Psychology — Gray&gt; [Edited]
The rate of this tax varies per state, with California having a rate of 7.25% for this tax and Oregon having a rate of 0%. For 10 points each:
Name this tax, which is levied upon the purchase of any good or service by a consumer.
Since the rate of sales tax is the same regardless of income, it is this type of tax. This type of tax takes a higher percentage of a lower-income individual’s income than of a higher-income individual’s income.
This specific type of sales tax is commonly applied to goods that are deemed harmful to society such as alcohol or tobacco. These taxes are usually levied on the producer, who then passes the cost onto the consumer.
sales tax
regressive tax
excise tax [accept sin tax] &lt;Economics — Shi&gt; [Edited]
Three of these sounds, represented by the English letters “p”, “t”, and “k,” are present in almost all languages. Furthermore, almost all languages with exactly three of these sounds have those exact three. For 10 points each:
Name these consonants created by completely restricting the passage of air.
In this language, a glottal stop may be represented by the letter hamza. The Spanish words “ojalá” (o-ha-LA) and “ajedrez” (ah-hay-dreise) originate from this language, which has the second greatest influence on Spanish after Latin.
A glottal stop is an allophone of the “t” phoneme in the Cockney dialect of this other language. A prestige dialect of this language is known as Received Pronunciation or as “the Queen’s” variant of this language.
stop consonants [or plosives or oral occlusive; prompt on obstruent]
Arabic
English [accept British English] &lt;Linguistics — French&gt; [Ed. Gray]
According to Kurt Goldstein, who coined this term, “basic satisfaction” is a prerequisite for being in this state. For 10 points each:
Give this psychological term for the “desire for self-fulfillment.” Attaining peak experiences is generally seen as evidence for being in this state.
Self-actualization occupies the highest level of a five-level “hierarchy of needs” which lays out motivations for human behavior and which was devised by this humanistic psychologist.
This other humanistic psychologist developed a client-centered approach to therapy and the concept of unconditional positive regard, which he theorized would help build trust with the client.
self-actualization
Abraham Harold Maslow
Carl Rogers &lt;Psychology — Schwartz/Gray&gt; [Edited]
X-bar theory was introduced by this linguist to allow for phrases nested to arbitrary depths. For 10 points each:
Name this MIT linguist who used the “poverty of the stimulus” to argue for the theory of universal grammar and formulated the sentence “Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.”
Chomsky’s scathing review of this behaviorist book marked the beginning of the cognitive revolution. Chomsky argued that this book oversimplified language using a too-vague notion of “controlling stimulus.”
Chomsky is best known for his work in this linguistic subfield, which deals with the structure of sentences. In a book named after the “structures” of this field, Chomsky introduced generative grammar.
Noam Chomsky [or Avram Noam Chomsky]
Verbal Behavior (by Burrhus Frederic Skinner)
syntax &lt;Linguistics — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This stage of development has not been passed if a person cannot tell that the volume in a glass has not changed after it has been poured into another container. For 10 points each:
Name this stage of development, which is characterized by the manipulation of symbols and pretend play. It follows the sensorimotor stage.
This Swiss psychologist described abilities like object permanence and the understanding of conservation in his four-stage model of development.
Piaget’s four stages of cognitive development describe these people, whose “attachment” to their mothers was described by Mary Ainsworth.
preoperational stage [do NOT accept or prompt on “operational”]
Jean Piaget
children [accept babies or toddlers or any answer indicating people younger than 13] &lt;Psychology — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
Becoming qualified to practice this field in the U.S. historically entailed “reading” this field, which meant a program of self-study and apprenticeship. For 10 points each:
Name this field. Although Kim Kardashian is reading this field, almost all modern-day practitioners of this field in the U.S. have attained a J.D. degree and passed the bar examination.
The U.S. legal system in every state except Louisiana operates within this framework, which is derived from the English legal system. Unlike civil law, this system is derived from precedent rather than statute.
A set of influential “Commentaries” by this English jurist was frequently cited by the Founding Fathers and is often seen as the basis for American common law.
law [or jurisprudence]
common law
Sir William Blackstone &lt;Law — Gray&gt; [Edited]
Utilities are a common example of the “natural” form of this market structure. For 10 points each:
Name this market structure in which there is only one producing firm.
A monopoly will have the maximum value of 10,000 on this index, which measures the competition in a given industry. This index is given by the sum of the squares of the market share of each firm, expressed as a percent.
In a monopoly, a rationally-acting firm will maximize profits by producing at the output where these two quantities are equal.
monopoly [accept natural monopoly]
Herfindahl-Hirschman Index [or HHI]
marginal revenue and marginal cost [accept in either order; prompt on MR and MC] &lt;Economics — Shahriar&gt; [Ed. French]
While working at this university, Albert Bandura conducted the Bobo Doll experiment, in which children from this university’s nursery school saw adults beating up the namesake toy. For 10 points each:
Name this West Coast university, where Walter Mischel studied delayed gratification with the “marshmallow test.”
In another landmark Stanford experiment, a mock one of these institutions was set up in the basement of Jordan Hall, with participants acting as guards and inmates.
The Stanford Prison experiment was conducted by this man, which led him to write the book The Lucifer Effect, which describes “how good people turn evil.”
Stanford University [or Leland Stanford Junior University]
prison [or Stanford Prison Experiment; or clear-knowledge synonyms like jail]
Philip Zimbardo &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
John Watson’s “Little Albert” experiment used this technique to make a small child fear all white, fuzzy objects, including Santa’s beard. For 10 points each:
Name this psychological phenomenon, wherein a previously neutral stimulus is paired with a potent stimulus. In another study, this phenomenon was used to train dogs to salivate at the sound of a metronome.
John Watson also conducted this experiment, in which rats were conditioned to navigate a maze for food, then the size of the maze was adjusted, causing the rats to produce a namesake sound.
This Russian scientist and pioneer of classical conditioning trained dogs to salivate at the sound of a buzzer by associating that stimulus with food. His work on digestion won him the 1904 Nobel Prize in Medicine.
classical conditioning [accept word forms; prompt on conditioning]
the Kerplunk experiment
Ivan Pavlov [or Ivan Petrovich Pavlov] &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
In one famous passage, this man described “measuring one’s soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt” and declared “One ever feels his twoness: an American, a Negro.” For 10 points each:
Name this sociologist, who described “double consciousness” in his best-known book. This man, a frequent critic of Booker T. Washington, was the first editor of the NAACP journal The Crisis.
Du Bois’s definition of double consciousness appears in this book, which begins by stating “The problem of the 20th century is the problem of the color line.” This work frequently revisits the metaphor of “the Veil.”
The last section of The Souls of Black Folk explores this aspect of African-American folk tradition, specifically mentioning “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot” and “Roll, Jordan, Roll” as examples of this tradition.
W. E. B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois]
The Souls of Black Folk
songs [or music; or spirituals; or Sorrow Songs; accept any clear reference to a song] &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
This anthropologist observed a four-year “war” between the Kahama and Kasakela, which resulted in the deaths of Goliath and Godi. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist, who conducted extensive fieldwork with subjects like “David Greybeard,” “Flo,” and “Mr. McGregor.”
Goodall is best known for studying these primates. She witnessed these primates using tools to fish for termites and discovered that these primates eat colobus monkeys, refuting the notion that these primates were vegetarian.
Efforts have been made to teach chimpanzees, including Washoe and Nim Chimpsky, to use these constructs with middling success. Koko, a gorilla, was famous for learning to use these constructs.
Jane Goodall [or Dame Jane Morris Goodall; or Valerie Jane Morris-Goodall; or Baroness Jane van Lawick-Goodall]
chimpanzees [or Pan troglodytes]
sign language [or American Sign Language; or ASL] &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
This economist described the law of rent in <em>On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this economist who, along with Ferdinand Lasalle, is often credited with devising the iron law of wages. He also used the example of English cloth and Portuguese wine to illustrate a key concept in his theory of trade.
Ricardo’s example of English cloth and Portuguese wine is used to demonstrate this concept, which states that nations should devote resources to their strongest industries, where the opportunity cost is lower.
Ricardo was a proponent of free trade, so he opposed these protectionist taxes on imports. The Corn Laws levied these import taxes on grain, while the Trump administration has used these taxes to target Chinese imports.
David Ricardo
comparative advantage
tariffs [prompt on duties; prompt on taxes] &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
NOTE TO MODERATOR: PLEASE CAREFULLY LOOK OVER THIS BONUS. Answer some questions about the work of sociolinguist William Labov, for 10 points each.
Labov’s “gender paradox” says these people are more likely to lead language change from below, despite being more likely to conform to prestige variants when stigma is attached to a certain sound change.
In Language in the Inner City, Labov argues that these people’s namesake “Vernacular English” is a well-formed dialect following linguistic rules. One such rule governs use of the habitual “be” in these people’s sociolect, as in “Cookie Monster be eating cookies.”
Labov conducted much of his research in this city, especially its predominantly black western neighborhoods, which adjoin the university where he worked.
(young) women [or any clear-knowledge equivalent about female people or girls; prompt on young people, kids, children, or teenagers by asking “What type of young people?”]
African-Americans [or Black Americans; or African-American Vernacular English; or Black Vernacular English; prompt on people of color, minorities; or the more offensive colored people; prompt on AAVE or the more offensive Ebonics by asking “With what people is that dialect associated?”]
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
Although the modern four field approach of anthropology is often attributed to this Columbia luminary, the truth is actually more complicated. For 10 points each:
Name this German-American anthropologist whose students included Margaret Mead and Zora Neale Hurston.
Boaz was most famous for opposing the “scientific” form of this discriminatory belief, which holds that White Europeans are evolutionarily superior to Africans.
Scientific racism was often supported by cranial studies that relied upon this pseudoscientific idea, which held that bumps in the skull can predict mental traits.
Franz Boas
racism
phrenology &lt;Social Science, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Okun’s Law states that for every 1% increase of this quantity, the national GDP will diminish by 2%. For 10 points each:
Name this economic quantity, that can be divided into frictional and structural types. It is defined as the percentage of the workforce who are actively seeking a job.
A “natural rate” of unemployment was devised by this American economist to criticize the Phillips Curve. This advocate of monetarism co-authored Free to Choose with his wife, Rose.
The relationship between unemployment and the job vacancy rate is represented in this curve, which slopes downwards because lower rates of vacancies are found with higher rates of unemployment.
: unemployment
: Milton Friedman
: Beveridge Curve &lt;Social Science, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Participants in this event could win four bladed knives if they won a series of contests including tug-of-war and baseball games. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment conducted in a namesake summer camp by Muzafer Sherif which studied conflict between young boys divided into two groups dubbed the “Rattlers” and the “Eagles.”
Sherif demonstrated this phenomenon in on one of his “Autokinetic Effect” experiments. Solomon Asch studied this concept in an experiment involving participants comparing the lengths of lines.
This man studied conformity in Norway and France for his doctoral dissertation. He also conducted his infamous “obedience to authority” experiment, where “teachers” administered electric shocks to “learners.”
Robbers Cave Experiment
conformity [accept word forms]
Stanley Milgram &lt;Social Science, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Francis Fukuyama revolutionized this social scientific discipline with his book <em>The End of History and the Last Man</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline that investigates systems of governance and political behavior.
By analyzing regime changes throughout the 20th century, Fukuyama concluded that the “liberal” form of this kind of representational government developed in ancient Athens will become internationally dominant.
American political scientist Samuel P. Huntington directly responded to Fukuyama’s claims of international peace with a work of this title, which holds that conflict will arise from cultural differences.
political science
democracy
The Clash of Civilizations &lt;Social Science, AH&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
One of the four parameters needed to define a context free grammar are these entities. For 10 points each:
Name these entities that define how symbols can be manipulated within a grammar system.
Production rules were devised by this MIT linguist who was a proponent of the Universal Grammar theory.
In linguistics, this word is often paired with grammar, and refers to the rules that govern sentence construction and structure.
Production rules
Noam Chomsky
Syntax &lt;Social Science, NR&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
The Kaldor-Hicks variety of this economic concept states that those better off could potentially give back to those worse off. For 10 points each:
Name this condition, whose thermal part can be measured in miles per gallon and is known as fuel economy.
This Italian’s namesake “efficiency” states a condition in which a person can’t be better off without making someone else worse off.
In his formulation of the 80/20 principle, Pareto explored this economic phenomenon, which can be represented by a Gini coefficient.
economic efficiency
Vilfredo Pareto
income inequality [accept wealth inequality; prompt on inequality] &lt;Social Science, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
One of these individuals was a Russian aristocrat, whose pseudonym came from the six figures he observed “sitting on the big walnut tree in front of the window.” For 10 points each:
Name these individuals who included “Wolf Man.” Another one of these individuals endured a disastrous nasal surgery, which was explained through the concept of “deferred action.”
The guilt of that botched surgery was catalogued in a work named after these entities. In that work on the interpretation of these things, Freud claimed that these entities were a form of “wish fulfillment.”
Freud stated that dreams consist of manifest content and this other type of content. This sort of content consists of the hidden and suppressed drives of the unconscious.
patients of Sigmund Freud [accept reasonable equivalents such as subjects or case studies; prompt on patients or subjects]
dreams [accept The Interpretation of Dreams]
latent content &lt;Social Science, AK&gt;&lt;ed. JB&gt;
Herodotus of Halicarnassus is often considered to be the father of this discipline, whose name derives from the Greek word for “finding out” and “narrative.” For 10 points each:
Name this discipline practiced by Howard Zinn and Frederick Jackson Turner that concerns itself with the study of the past.
Thomas Carlyle popularized this historiographic approach that frames the study of history through the lives and impact of certain extraordinary heroes.
“Great man” history is contrasted with the materialist perspective of this philosopher, whose historical analyses include The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon.
history
great man theory
Karl Marx &lt;Other History, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
<strong></strong> This thinker distinguished the actual use of language from its formal, abstract rules, analogizing one to the individual moves of a chess game, and the other to the rules of chess. For 10 points each:
Name this formulator of langue [LONG] and parole, which he explained in a series of lectures delivered at the University of Geneva and compiled by Bally and Sechehaye. He theorized that a “sign” is a “double entity” consisting of a “signalling” signifier and the signified concept it expresses.
Saussure also posited that this language used sonant coefficients that Hermann Moller hypothesized were laryngeals. This language was theorized by William Jones, who suggested it gave rise to Sanskrit, Persian, Latin, Greek, Gothic, and Celtic.
The responses of Jacques Derrida and other mostly French thinkers to Saussurean structuralism are often lumped under this intellectual movement criticized by the likes of Jordan Peterson. It is usually seen as a response to modernism.
Ferdinand de Saussure [SAUCE-sure”]
Proto-Indo-European [or PIE; “Indo-European” doesn’t exist, so don’t prompt on that]
postmodernism
This man collaborated with Merrill Carlsmith on an experiment Carlsmith adapted into his “forbidden toy” experiment. For 10 points each:
Name this psychologist who had people turn boring knobs for either one or twenty dollars. He also wrote When Prophecy Fails to explain the workings of cognitive dissonance.
This coiner of “role model” summarized how making a prediction can lead to its fulfillment, as in the case of minority students performing more poorly on standardized tests when told minority students are bad at tests, with the phrase “self-fulfilling prophecy” in his book Social Theory and Social Structure.
David Rosenhan explained how these institutions could make their patients insane by treating them as if they were insane, a self-fulfilling prophecy explained in his “On Being Sane in Insane Places.” Rosenhan sent people faking schizophrenia to these places, where they easily entered but could not easily leave.
Leon Festinger
Robert K(ing) Merton [do not accept “Robert C(ox) Merton”]
mental asylums [accept equivalents like insane asylums /asyla, psych wards, sanatoriums/ia, mental hospitals, and psychiatric hospitals; prompt on “institution(s)]
Thinkers in this discipline include Alexandre Lacassagne and his rival Cesare Lombroso. For 10 points each:
Name this discipline to which the “broken windows” theory belongs. Theorists in this discipline seek to reduce recidivism and discourage actions like larceny and murder, possibly through incarceration.
In Discipline and Punish, Michel Foucault analogized all hierarchical institutions to this specific kind of building. This prison, imagined by Jeremy Bentham, causes all inmates to act as if they are being watched, since they never know whether or not they are.
This thinker argued that punishments should correspond in intensity to the crime and should quickly follow crime in order to maximize deterrence. This man wrote On Crimes and Punishments.
criminology
Panopticon [accept panopticism]
Cesare (Bonesana-)Beccaria
This anthropologist performed perhaps the most famous example of “salvage ethnography” alongside his wife Theodora. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist who adopted and subsequently studied Ishi, the last of the Yahi people.
Kroeber studied at Columbia University under this pioneering American anthropologist, who also taught Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict. This man argued against the link between cranial size and race.
The Yahi language was documented by Kroeber with the help of this other Columbia anthropology student. He co-names a theory also called “linguistic relativity” with his student Benjamin Lee Whorf.
Alfred (Louis) Kroeber [KREE-bur]
Franz (Uri) Boas
Edward Sapir [accept Sapir-Whorf hypothesis]
The paradoxographer Pal<strong>·</strong>ae<strong>·</strong>phat<strong>·</strong>us tried to connect these tales to ordinary occurrences. For 10 points each:
Name these stories studied by Eu·hem·er·us, who traced them all back to normal humans. For example, he claimed that Zeus was just a king of Crete about whom later storytellers embellished.
This thinker introduced the term “mytheme” to describe the basic structural units of narrative from which myths are constructed in his paper “The Structural Study of Myth.” He analogized myth-making to his concept of “bricolage.”
Robert Graves attempted to link all myths to a universal prehistoric lunar goddess cult in The White Goddess. The Greek moon goddess Selene loved this shepherd she put into an eternal sleep to maintain his youth.
(Greek) myths [or mythology; or clear equivalents]
Claude Levi-Strauss
Endymion
Thomas Piketty advocated for a progressive wealth tax to correct for this phenomenon in his book <em>Capital in the Twenty-First Century</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this phenomenon measured by the Gini coefficient, the gap between the richest and poorest segments of the population in an area.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau’s Discourse on Inequality links the establishment of civil society and the subsequent emergence of income inequality to the creation of this concept, which is subject to the Lockean proviso. John Locke argued society existed to protect this thing, which he equated with one’s “life, liberty, and estate.”
This welfare economist noted that rising food prices rather than food shortage caused many famines, arguing “capability deprivation” was a bigger factor than just income inequality in his Poverty and Famines.
(income) inequality [or wealth inequality]
private property [prompt on “ownership”; prompt on “land” or “land ownership”]
Amartya Sen &lt;Social Science&gt;
<strong></strong> This thinker was the first to use “surfing” in the sense of moving through a lot of information quickly, as in “surfing the Web.” For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian media theorist, who captured the link between the way a message is expressed and its content in the phrase “the medium is the message” coined in his Understanding Media.
McLuhan contrasted “hot” media like movies with “cool” media, which require more involvement to derive meaning as exemplified by this medium Newton Minnow called a “vast wasteland.” Programs in this medium are broadcast on channels like CNN.
TV was not well-liked by Neil Postman, nor by this essayist of “E Unibus Pluram.” He included that essay in the footnote-laden A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never Do Again.
Marshall McLuhan
television [or TV]
David Foster Wallace [or DFW]
<strong></strong> The “guess two thirds of the average game” is sometimes named after this sort of event. For 10 points each:
Name this event central to a thought experiment in which a newspaper asks participants to pick six photographs out of one hundred for a contest. Its proposer suggested it would be best to act according to what one believes others would pick rather than their own opinions, and analogized it to the stock market.
That “beauty contest” is usually named for this economist, who wrote The General Theory of Money, Interest, and Employment.
Keynes’ economics were made into this model by John Hicks, later expanded by Alvin Hansen. It either explains the behavior of national income when short-run prices are fixed, or according to other interpretations explains aggregate demand shifts.
beauty contest [accept, but do not otherwise reveal Keynesian beauty contest]
John Maynard Keynes [CANES] [accept Keynesian]
IS-LM model [or Investment-Saving/Liquidity Preference-Money Supply model; don’t prompt on “Hicks-Hansen model” since that was given in the question]
Mary Cover Jones conducted a variation on this experiment which ended with the subject being afraid of Santa Claus. For ten points each:
Name this dubiously ethical experiment which used classical conditioning to make a child associate loud noises with furry objects.
This American psychologist conducted the Little Albert experiment as well as the Kerplunk experiment.
Watson’s Kerplunk experiment measured this type of learning in rats as they ran through a maze.
Little Albert experiment
John B. Watson
kinaesthetic learning
Marcel Mauss uses the term <em>hau</em> to describe the force that bind people involved with this practice. For ten points each:
Name this system of gift exchange common among tribes of the Pacific Northwest. Franz Boas famously studied this system among the Kwakiutl tribe.
This anthropologist explored the potlatch-style economics of the Kula Ring among inhabitants of the Trobriand Islands. This man also used his observations of the Trobriand islanders to write Coral Gardens and Their Magic.
Malinowski challenged the universality of this Freudian concept, linking it to power rather than sexual envy.
Potlatch
Bronisław Malinowski
Oedipus complex
This man attempted to link Scandinavian myth with a hypothetical civilization in Azerbaijan. For ten points each:
Name this Norwegian ethnographer who sailed across the Pacific to demonstrate the capacity of ancient seafaring. This man used his experiences to support several theories of transoceanic cultural exchange.
Heyerdahl crossed the Pacific in this raft made out of 9 balsa logs and named for the Incan sun god.
In another expedition, Heyerdahl travelled to this island to investigate its characteristic moai heads. Heyerdahl associated this island depopulation to a long ago civil war among the Rapa Nui people.
Thor Heyerdahl
Kon-Tiki
Easter Island
Answer the following questions about important people in linguistics. For ten points each:
This MIT professor and left-wing thinker proposed the idea of universal grammar and coined the phrase "colorless green ideas sleep furiously" as a grammatically correct but nonsensical sentence.
In one work, Chomsky ridiculed the linguistic ideas of Beyond Freedom and Dignity and Verbal Behavior, both of which were written by this American psychologist and pioneer of operant conditioning.
Though their namesake term is a misnomer, this man and Benjamin Lee Whorf name a hypothesis which asserts that language shapes how people think of and judge the world.
Noam Chomsky
B.F. Skinner
Edward Sapir
This thinker believed his subjects used “schemata” to learn about the outside world and could either assimilate or accommodate new information. For ten points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist who theorized about four stages of child development.
According to Piaget, this type of reasoning marks the preoperational stage stage of development. In science, this skill is used to derive general understanding from specific observations.
Piaget believed that this concept indicate the concrete operational stage of child development. Piaget tested this skill through pouring water in differently sized glasses.
Jean Piaget
induction
conservation
Mary Wollstonecraft wrote many foundational texts for this branch of philosophy. For ten points each:
Name this philosophical and social movement which seeks equality between the sexes.
This American author helped begin Second Wave Feminism through her book The Feminine Mystique. This first president of NOW also led the 1970 Women's Strike for Equality.
Friedan used interviews with her classmates at this New England college to write The Feminine Mystique. Other notable feminist graduates from this largest of the Seven Sisters include Eunice Carter and Gloria Steinem.
feminism
Betty Friedan
Smith College
This book’s musical epigrams are discussed in its final chapter, “The Sorrow Songs.” For 10 points each:
Name this pioneering work of sociology, which claims that the title people live life behind a “veil.” This book argues that the title people are always aware of how others see them, producing “double consciousness.”
Another pioneering work of sociology was this Frenchman’s The Rules of Sociological Method, which advocates the study of “social facts” like laws using statistics. He also wrote Suicide.
Durkheim first studied this social fact, which was discussed using the metaphor of a pin factory by Adam Smith. In this process, a good is made in several specialized steps, which are performed by individual people.
The Souls of Black Folk (by W.E.B. Du Bois)
(David) Émile Durkheim
the division of labor &lt;JR&gt;
Nothing is certain but death and taxes. Answer some questions about the latter, for 10 points each.
British economist Arthur Pigou introduced his namesake kind of tax to control this kind of externality. This kind of externality is exemplified by pollution, which harms third parties or at least increases costs for them.
Income taxes are sometimes contrasted with consumption taxes, which are exemplified by this kind of indirect tax. Many countries use a value-added tax instead of this kind of tax, which is usually regressive due to its flat rate.
A tax that depends positively on GDP will reduce the size of the Keynesian form of this kind of quantity. In general, this kind of quantity simply shows how an endogenous variable changes in proportion to an exogenous one.
negative externalities
sales tax
Keynesian multiplier &lt;BY/JR&gt;
This thinker compared geometric and arithmetic growth rates in a 1798 book. For 10 points each:
Name this man who believed that a perfect society could never be achieved because of population growth, a view that is known as his namesake “trap.”
Malthus was an influential critic of these laws, which he said led to inflation and thus undermined the people they were meant to help. A 1601 law with this name was amended in 1834.
Although Malthus disagreed with his contemporary David Ricardo about some particulars of political economy, they were both followers of this economist. This man discussed “the invisible hand” in The Wealth of Nations.
Thomas Robert Malthus [accept Malthusian trap]
English Poor Laws
Adam Smith &lt;JW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the early development of psychology:
This method was used by Wilhelm Wundt and other early experimental psychologists. This method involves asking patients to self-reflect on their conscious thoughts and feelings, instead of trying to observe them externally.
Introspection was used widely by this student of Wilhelm Wundt, who created an influential early doctoral program at Cornell. This Brit coined the term “empathy.”
Introspection was rejected as unscientific by John B. Watson and other adherents of this approach. In B.F. Skinner’s “radical” version of this approach, all thoughts and actions are basically conditioned responses to stimuli.
introspection
Edward B. Titchener
behaviorism [accept radical behaviorism] &lt;BY&gt; Tiebreaker
Bonus: This man created the concept of merge, the idea that two consecutive words can have a single, different meaning together. For ten points each:
Name this prominent MIT linguist, who along with writing Syntactic Structures created the notion of generative grammar.
Chomsky also developed this other theory of grammar, which asserts that the brain is instinctively designed to learn grammar.
This broader hypothesis in linguistics puts forth the idea that a person’s language plays a major role in the way he thinks as well as his world view.
Noam Chomsky
universal grammar
Sapir-Whorf hypothesis &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: Identify these American economists, for ten points each:
This man instructed the “Chicago Boys”, a group of economists who reorganized the Chilean economy, but he is perhaps better known for his book on free market policies, published by UChicago, Capitalism and Freedom.
This other American economist, who was also half-Norwegian, wrote The Theory of the Leisure Class, a treatise that introduced the concept of excessive spending on luxuries to impress others or, “conspicuous consumption”.
This former professor of economics at Princeton was awarded the 2008 Nobel Prize for his contributions to New trade theory. A current columnist for the New York Times, this man predicts an economic fallout in the Trump presidency.
Milton Friedman
Thorstein Veblen
Paul Robin Krugman &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This quantity’s namesake law explains that it has an inverse relationship with price for a given product. For ten points each:
Identify this economic quantity, the willingness to buy a product, often grouped with supply.
A decrease in the cost of one good would result in a decrease in the demand for goods with this relationship to that good. Those two goods would then have a positive cross-price elasticity of demand.
These types of goods notably do not follow the law of demand, but in fact become more popular as their price rises. Potatoes during the Irish Potato Famine are an example of these types of goods.
demand
substitute [accept word forms]
Giffen goods &lt;AG+PA&gt;
For 10 points each—give these subfields of earth science:
This is the scientific study of earthquakes and the propagation of their waves as they pass through the Earth.
ASLO is the American Society of this science and Oceanography. This branch is interested in lakes and ponds.
In American English, this word for the study of soil has the same spelling as the science interested in the nature and development of children.
seismology (accept word forms for all parts)
limnology
pedology (accept pedologist) [In the Queen's English, children are studied by paedologists]
One way to calculate this is the expenditure method, which totals consumption, investment, government spending, and net exports. For 10 points each—
Give this term for the market value of goods and services produced by a country. It does not include income earned by overseas residents.
After the U.S. and China, this country’s $4.9 trillion dollar GDP is the third largest.
The World Bank places this country first in nominal GDP per capita, at $102,000 per citizen. This Grand Duchy is the seat of the European Court of Justice.
GDP or gross domestic product (do not accept "GNP" or "gross national product")
Japan or Nippon or Nihon
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
For 10 points each—name these social sciences:
This term derived from Greek for “ancient study” seeks cultural artifacts from past civilizations. Colin Renfrew and Paul Bahn authored an influential textbook on its “theories, methods and practice.”
A Nobel prize for this field was first awarded in 1969. Recipients have included Milton Friedman, John Nash, and Paul Krugman.
This statistical analysis of populations may study birth rates or ethnic origins. The organization known by the acronym CIRCED is interested in this field.
archeology [the textbook is Archaeology: Theories, Methods and Practice.]
economics (or economic sciences)
demography or demographics [CIRCED is the Committee for International Cooperation in National Research in Demography.]
For 10 points each—give these answers related to personality psychology:
Schizophrenia may include this condition in which individuals are sensitive to setbacks, persistently hold grudges, and are sure everyone is out to “get them.”
Also called negativist personality, Theodore Millon proposed vacillating and abrasive types for this condition. Its behaviors include door slamming, gossip, work procrastination, and other acts that avoid direct confrontation.
Adolph Stern coined this term for a condition he viewed as between psychosis and neurosis. People with this condition exhibit wild mood swings, show an intense fear of abandonment, and do dangerous things.
paranoid personality disorder or paranoia
passive-aggressive behavior (prompt on “PA”)
borderline personality disorder
One definition of this economic concept is the money an individual receives in exchange for providing a good or service or through investing capital. For 10 points each—
Give this term generally stated as the money a person earns, which is taxable per the 16th amendment
People who own stock may earn this kind of investment income, a payment made by a corporation to its shareholders.
Income minus taxes is the simplest way to calculate this kind of income, the amount a consumer can choose to spend or save.
income
dividend
disposable (personal) income
For 10 points each—give these answers related to education:
Friedrich Fröbel coined this German term for his school serving young children.
“Some Educational Implications of the Humanistic Psychologies” is a paper by this professor best known for placing self-actualization at the top of his hierarchy of needs.
The first female to graduate from an Italian medical school, this woman developed a philosophy used by schools bearing her name. Such schools give students activity choices and stress discovery learning.
kindergarten
Abraham Maslow
Maria Montessori
This man labels the proletariat as the social class that sells its labor for a wage. For 10 points each—
Name this figure who wrote The Communist Manifesto with Friedrich Engels.
The International Workingmen's Association was an attempt to unite Marxists with this other political movement. These movements are generally against strong states and advocate limited or even no government.
Marxism shares some goals with this other philosophy about maximizing political freedom. In the 2016 U.S. election Gary Johnson represented a party with this name.
Karl Marx
anarchist (accept word forms)
libertarian(ism)
One possible origin of this term was a Genoan custom of breaking a moneychanger's bench when they went out of business. For 10 points each—
Give this term for a status in which a person cannot repay his or her creditors. Corporations may undergo reorganization during this process under Chapter 11.
A bankrupt entity may start this process of converting all its assets into cash. This happened to the Sports Authority chain before it closed.
In 2013 this municipality filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, owing creditors around $18 billion. At the time it was led by Mayor David Bing.
bankruptcy
liquidation or liquefying assets
Detroit, Michigan
America led the world in anthropology during the early twentieth century largely because of the genius of one man. For 10 points each:
Name this German-American patriarch who notably developed the “four-field” subdivision of anthropological study and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man.
Boas created the field of cultural anthropology at this Ivy-league school in New York that produced such students as Edward Sapir and Ruth Benedict.
One of Boas’s most famous students was this author of Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies who studied residents on the island of Ta’u in Coming of Age in Samoa.
Franz Boas
Columbia University
Margaret Mead
New Orleans is often said to contain more of these than any other American city. For 10 points each:
Name this sociolinguistic concept, the unique pronunciations of people of a particular region or group. While often confused with a dialect, these things are actually key parts of dialects.
This feature is notably absent from Boston and Charleston dialects of English. Contrasted with “R-dropping,” this feature of accents causes the words “paw” and “poor” to sound alike.
Non-rhoticity is common among the "old" variant of dialects from this cultural region of the United States. Its "inland" dialects are widely spoken in Arkansas and Tennessee, while the "lowland" type is spoken along the Gulf Coast.
Accents
Rhoticity [accept descriptions of pronouncing rhotic consonants]
The South
Give me a child until the age of seven, and I will show you the man. For 10 points each:
Name this learning principle made famous by Pavlov’s dogs, where a biological stimulus and neutral stimulus are paired such that the two become associated and trigger responses to the other.
Classical and operant conditioning make up the theoretical foundations of this twentieth century psychological school of thought that was notably propounded by thinkers like John Watson.
This behaviorist articulated a vision of utopian society where scientific conditioning is used to perfect the human race in Walden Two, which described an experimental community led by T.E. Frazer.
Classical Conditioning [prompt on “Conditioning”; do NOT accept “Operant conditioning”]
Behaviorism [accept word forms]
B.F. Skinner
Points are a spook meant to keep the teams from uniting against the moderator. But we all like to win, and so for 10 points each:
Give the name of the ideology which holds that all government is inherently oppressive and that direct democracy and the destruction of the state are required to achieve true freedom. Its adherents were expelled from the Second International by Karl Marx.
This professor from MIT, known for his support of socialism and his dialectical books such as On Anarchism and Syntactic Structures, is best known for his work in linguistics.
Chomsky proposed the universal type of this term, which by itself describes the structural rules used in a language.
Anarchism [accept anarchy]
Noam Chomsky
Grammar
Veblen and Giffen goods are exceptions to this economic concept’s namesake law. For 10 points each:
Name this concept whose curve slopes downward, unlike supply.
This economist names a type of demand function that is contrasted with the Marshallian demand function. This man’s namesake demand function minimizes expenditures for a given utility.
This equation relates Hicksian and Marshallian demand and describes the total change in demand in terms of the substitution and income effects.
Demand
John Hicks
Slutsky equation &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
An economy meets this condition in exogenous growth models when the variables describing it reach a balanced growth. For 10 points each:
This concept, named for a Nobel prize winning mathematician, refers to a situation where participants in a non-cooperative game lack incentive to change their strategy.
In this concept, two people have the choice between confessing and not confessing. In Nash Equilibrium, they both choose to confess.
These situations are governed by Nash Equilibrium in their namesake “theory.” Examples of these situations include the stag hunt and the prisoner’s dilemma.
Nash equilibrium
Prisoner’s dilemma
Games [or game theory] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This psychological experiment administered by Walter Mischel tested children’s ability to delay gratification. For 10 points each:
Name this experiment, where children who delayed eating a certain food would be rewarded with double the amount of food.
Walter Mischel was a professor at this university in Palo Alto when he performed the Marshmallow Test. This university was also the site of a namesake “prison” experiment.
Philip Zimbardo, who led the Stanford Prison Experiment, later compared it to the abuse of prisoners in Abu Ghraib in this book.
the Marshmallow Test [or the Marshmallow experiment]
Stanford University [or Leland Stanford Junior University; or Stanford Prison Experiment]
The Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn Evil &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
Answer the following about Emile Durkheim. For 10 points each:
The “rules” and “method” of this discipline title an 1895 book by Durkheim, which distinguishes it from psychology. This social science studies the elements of human society.
Durkheim divided this action into fatalistic, altruistic, egoistic and anomic varieties. In the book named for this action, Durkheim analyzed why different groups of people kill themselves.
In his work The Division of Labor in Society, Durkheim coined this term, which refers to the “totality of beliefs and sentiments” shared between society’s average members.
sociology [or The Rules of Sociological Method]
suicide [or Suicide]
Collective consciousness &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The Western Union Company and Standard Oil are historical examples of this type of market structure. For 10 points each:
Name these targets of anti-trust laws. This market structure consists of a single firm without significant competition.
This kind of market structure only has a small number of firms. The Cournot and Stackelberg models can describe this market structure.
Buyers possess perfect information in this theoretical market structure, where numerous firms sell identical products.
Monopoly
Oligopolies
Perfect competition &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
This man popularized the distinction between extroversion and introversion and considered individuation a necessary process for personal development. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist and founder of analytic psychology. He first described humanity’s “collective unconscious” in a 1916 essay.
According to Jung, these symbolic images and patterns arise from the collective unconscious. Examples of them include the trickster and the anima.
This illustrated manuscript published after Jung’s death explores 16 years of his psychological development.
Carl Jung [“Yoong”]
Archetypes
The Red Book [or Liber Novus] &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;
Bonus: The <em>kavakava</em> versions of them were made after the Rapa Nui society collapsed. For 10 points each:
Name these things which were often placed on ahus, or stone tables. Thor Heyerdahl attempted to determine how these very heavy things were transported by testing the “walking” method.
The moai are giant stone heads are found on this remote island, 2180 miles away from the Chilean coast. It was named for the Christian holiday on which it was discovered by Jacob Roggeveen.
A major theory for what caused the Rapa Nui societal collapse is this phenomenon. Surprisingly, only 14% of this phenomenon can currently be attributed to the logging industry.
moai [prompt on “stone heads”]
Easter Island
deforestation &lt;AB&gt;
Answer some questions about a certain function in economics. For 10 points each:
Angus Deaton was awarded the most recent Nobel Memorial Prize in economics for his analysis of poverty, welfare, and this function, which expresses consumer spending in terms of parameters such as disposable income.
The absolute income hypothesis is an earlier theory of the consumption function formulated by this man, who wrote The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
A less quantitative analysis of consumption was given by this founder of institutional economics in The Theory of the Leisure Class, in which he introduced the term conspicuous consumption.
consumption function
John Maynard Keynes
Thorstein Veblen &lt;RK&gt;
Bonus: This man proposed that societies begin by having mechanical solidarity, a cohesiveness from people sharing the same traits, to organic solidarity, a cohesion caused by people needing others to be able to perform specialized tasks for them. For 10 points each:
Name this French sociologist who studied “social facts” in works such as The Division of Labor in Society.
Emile Durkheim argued that this phenomenon, when somebody ends their life, is caused either because of anomic, egoistic, altruistic, or fatalistic reasons.
In Suicide, Durkheim claimed that this sect of Christianity sees a lower incidence of suicide because they exert greater social control than their rival groups.
Emile Durkheim
Suicide
Catholicism
Bonus: When the rate of return of this concept is greater than the long-term rate of economic growth, wealth inequality will increase, according to Thomas Piketty's analysis of this concept “In the 21<sup>st</sup> Century.” For 10 points each:
Name this kind of possession that allows the holder to participate further in the economic system. Louis Althusser wrote a work “Reading” a 19th-century analysis of this concept, claiming it relies on exploiting labor.
This author of Das Kapital names the various branches of philosophy and economics that critique capitalism. He also wrote, with Friedrich Engels, The Communist Manifesto.
Paolo Friere's Pedagogy of the Oppressed and Frantz Fanon's The Wretched of the Earth are Marxist critiques of this practice, where a nation seizes territory, then sends resources back to their metropolis.
Capital [or Das Kapital]
Karl Marx
colonialism &lt;CD&gt;
Answer some questions about the sociologist Sudhir Venkatesh, for 10 points each:
Venkatesh’s work Floating City is about the underbelly of this large U.S. metropolis. Venkatesh is a professor at Columbia University, located within this city.
A 2008 book by Venkatesh describes a day acting as the leader of one of these organizations. Examples of these organizations include the Cosa Nostra and the Aryan Brotherhood.
This other Columbia professor founded the field of anthropology in the late 19th-century and taught students such as Margaret Mead and Alfred Kroeber. He authored The Mind of Primitive Man in opposition to eugenics.
New York City [or NYC]
gangs [accept Gang Leader For A Day]
Franz Boas &lt;EX&gt;
This author’s “The Races of Mankind” was delivered to Allied soldiers in World War II. For 10 points each:
Name this anthropologist whose Patterns of Culture describes the Apollonian and Dionysian differences between various Native American societies.
Benedict’s The Chrysanthemum and the Sword was written as a study of the people of this culture. These people’s samurai followed the bushido code of honor.
The “guilt culture” in the United States was contrasted with this other type of culture that Benedict described as residing in Japan. In this type of culture, social order is maintained with the threat of ostracism.
Ruth Benedict
Japanese culture [or people]
shame culture &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: It is written in the Ge'ez abugida, which has symbols for each consonant-vowel pair. For 10 points each:
Name this closest relative of the Argobba language, which is the most widely spoken language in Ethiopia.
Amharic is a member of this branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family, named for a son of Noah. Their languages take fixed roots of consonants and change their meaning by inserting different vowels, such as in Arabic.
The modern version of this Semitic language is taught in Ulpans, and was created by Eliezer Ben-Yehuda as part of his Zionist ideology. Yiddish is spoken as a Germanic language, but uses the writing system of this language.
Amharic
Semitic
Hebrew &lt;CD&gt;
Answer the following about expansionary fiscal policy, for 10 points each:
Classically, expansionary fiscal policy involves either increasing government spending, as advocated by liberals, or this action, advocated by conservatives. Supply-siders advocate that the government take this action.
Expansionary policy may increase incomes, unless this unpleasant effect occurs, due to a vertical LM curve. In this effect, adding money to the economy increases interest rates only, because private spending goes down.
On the other hand, expansionary policy is very effective at drawing an economy out of a “trap” named for this quantity. For an asset, this term refers to how quickly you can sell it, without sacrificing its value.
cutting taxes [or reducing tax rates; or obvious equivalents]
crowding out [or word forms]
liquidity [or word forms; or a liquidity trap]
Georg Simmel first proposed these concepts. For 10 points each:
Name these social structures composed of people and the interpersonal dyadic links between them. Facebook is often considered the prototypical example of one.
Stanley Milgram contributed to social network thought with his “small world” experiment, which found that, on average, it took this many total “steps” to forward a letter from Omaha to a specific recipient in Boston.
People with extremely large social networks, called “connectors”, are discussed in this 2000 book, which opens by discussing the unexpected rise in popularity of Hush Puppies shoes in New York in the 90s.
social networks [prompt on partial answer]
six [or six degrees of separation]
The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference [by Malcolm Gladwell]
Answer the following about creepy psychological experiments that took place in Palo Alto, California, for 10 points each:
Philip Zimbardo led an experiment in 1971 in which the basement of the psychology building at Stanford was turned into one of these institutions, which quickly slipped into authoritarianism.
Walter Mischel led a study in delayed gratification in the 60s at Stanford in which children were offered one of these foodstuffs immediately, or two of them, if they could wait 15 minutes to eat the first one.
Ron Jones ran this social experiment in 1967, at Cubberley High School in Palo Alto. During this experiment, students joined an-increasingly authoritarian club and began acting like Nazis by making the namesake salute.
a prison [or a jail; or obvious equivalents]
a marshmallow
The Third Wave experiment [or the Wave]
You’re a good scientist, trying to develop a new miracle drug that cures hair loss. For 10 points each:
When planning clinical trials, you should always include one of these groups in the experiment, as a benchmark for your treated groups. In these groups, the independent variable is not changed.
Funding for medical research in the United States is often provided from this government agency, part of the Department of Health and Human Services. It also has its own Intramural Research Program.
You submit your work to the Journal of Investigative Dermatology, according to this system that guides all US academic research. By it, only scientists with similar expertise can evaluate research before publication.
control groups
National Institutes of Health [or the NIH]
peer review [prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following about post-WWII American culture, for 10 points each:
World War II veterans embraced this set of ideals, which emphasizes the opportunity for upward socioeconomic mobility through hard work and perseverance.
This 1944 law gave World War II veterans benefits like low interest home loans, vocational training, and college tuition.
Houses in these 1950s suburban communities were assembled quickly and cheaply due to the use of prefabricated parts and assembly manufacturing. They were affordable and popular with returning GIs.
the American Dream
The G.I. Bill of Rights [or the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944]
Levittowns
Answer the following about the economics of buying questions for quizbowl tournaments, for 10 points each:
If the market senses that quizbowl is going to become very popular next year, then this positively-sloped curve will shift up, as more people write question sets. This curve intersects the demand curve at the equilibrium point.
Quizbowl is this type of market, in which producers have independent pricing schemes and strong product differentiation--for example, unlike other question sets, this tournament is filled with many funny jokes.
You’re enjoying the jokes in this tournament so much, in fact, that you’d pay more to get the same number of questions--indicating that the set has a low value for this property, which is zero for a vertical demand curve.
supply curve
monopolistic competition [prompt on competition; do not accept or prompt on “monopoly”]
price elasticity of demand [or E]
Answer the following about effective techniques in rhetoric, for 10 points each:
This especially common technique uses a series of similar consonant sounds at the beginning of consecutive words.
George Orwell hated this rhetorical device, an understatement which uses double negatives to change the emphasis of the sentence. These constructions aren’t always completely ineffective, though.
Litotes are often employed as part of this mode of persuasion, in which the speaker appeals to the audience’s character or makes an appeal to an authority. The Greek name is required.
alliteration [or word forms]
litotes [pronounced “lie-TOE-tee”; joke was intended]
ethos [prompt on ethical appeal]
An influential 1948 novel by this author rejects free will and is narrated by Professor Burris, as he tours a Utopian community. For 10 points each:
Name this American thinker who advocated behavioral engineering in Beyond Freedom and Dignity.
Skinner raised eyebrows with Walden Two, a book whose title parodies this 19th-century transcendentalist. This man wrote Walden and “Civil Disobedience.”
This thinker wrote “The Case Against B.F. Skinner’ in response to Beyond Freedom and Dignity. This left-wing intellectual lambasted Skinner’s Verbal Behavior, arguing that humans have an innate ability for language.
Burrhus Frederic Skinner
Henry David Thoreau
Noam Chomsky
Nobel Laureate Theodore Schultz proposed that investing in this form of capital can aid developing countries. For 10 points each:
Name this form of capital which encompasses the knowledge and experience of workers.
Internationally, the UN quantifies investment in human capital with the help of this metric. This metric compares life expectancy, education, and per capita income.
Countries with low HDI are called the “least developed countries”, superseding this outdated Cold War term for nations that didn’t align with the US or Soviet Union.
human capital
Human Development Index [or HDI]
the Third World [or Third World countries]
This faculty is divided into steps for encoding, storage, and retrieval. For 10 points each:
Name this ability extensively studied by Hermann Ebbinghaus. Amnesiacs lack the short-term form of this ability.
According to Ebbinghaus’ serial position effect, when asked to remember a series of items, people are least likely to remember information about items in this position.
In a paper titled for the “magical number”, George A. Miller proposed that average humans can hold only this many objects in their working memory at a time. Give your answer as the commonly accepted range of numbers.
memory [or short-term memory]
the middle [or intermediate positions; or obvious equivalents]
seven plus or minus two [or between five and nine; or obvious equivalents; prompt on seven]
Answer the following about lock-up periods in the stock market, for 10 points each:
A lock-up period prevents investors from selling any of these objects, the smallest individual units of a company stock that can be purchased.
A lock-up occurs in the aftermath of one of these events, in which a company sells stock on an exchange for the first time. Facebook had a disastrous one on May 18, 2012.
A lock-up period ensures these investment vehicles are illiquid. In these structures, a general manager speculates with plenty of leverage, although, contrary the name, doesn’t always take offsetting financial positions.
shares of stock
initial public offering [or IPO]
hedge funds [prompt on funds; do not accept or prompt on “mutual funds”]
This thinker founded genetic epistemology and he also wrote <em>The Psychology of the Child</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Swiss psychologist who developed a four-stage model of child development.
Piaget first theorized this phenomenon occurred in the sensorimotor stage of his development model. It is defined as the idea that things exist after being removed from one’s field of view.
Children are finally able to perform abstract and hypothetical thinking once they reach this final stage of Piaget’s model.
Jean Piaget
object permanence
formal operational
One of these forms of communication was developed on Martha's Vineyard due to a genetic trait common among the population. For 10 points each:
Identify this method of communicating with people who are hearing-impaired, which often involves the use of predetermined gestures with the hands.
An early opponent of sign language was this American inventor of the telephone, whose focus on speech led him to support abusive schools for deaf children in order to prevent them from signing.
One of Bell's early experiments involved one of these animals, which he trained to "speak" the phrase "How are you, grandma?"
sign language
Alexander Graham Bell
dog
The majority of the population lies between 70 and 130 along this measurement. For 10 points:
Name this quantity, which can be measured through the Stanford-Binet test and is used to determine how smart a person is.
This effect is the observed worldwide increase in IQ since the 1930s.
This book controversially claimed that genetics played a large role in racial differences in IQ. It’s titled after the distribution of intelligence throughout a population.
Intelligence Quotient [prompt on intelligence]
Flynn effect
The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life
Alan Krueger devised the Great Gatsby curve in 2012, which plots the intergenerational elasticity of social mobility against this quantity. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, at its highest level in America since the Great Depression, defined as the gap between the richest and poorest people.
One measure of wealth inequality is this Italian index, which regards 0 as a perfectly equal society and 1 as a monopoly on wealth.
Dissatisfied low-wage workers have gone on strike with the slogan “Fight for [this amount]. Seattle and San Francisco have raised their minimum wage to this amount.
income inequality [accept wealth inequality]
Gini coefficient [or ratio; or index]
$15.00
One character in this webcomic suggests that a super soaker is the cure to another character’s “getting existential again,” and another uses a blowtorch to cut a poorly-parked car in half, for 10 points each:
Name this webcomic, founded by Randall Monroe. Its name is designed to be an unpronounceable word.
xkcd calls itself a webcomic of romance, [this word], math, and language. This word is defined as the use of irony to mock or contempt another person.
One recurring series of comics on xkcd is this two-word phrase. Examples of this include appending “That’s what she said!” to grammatically complex sentences, or saying “No pun intended” after sentences with no pun present.
xkcd.com
sarcasm
“My Hobby”
This economist argues that the 1990’s economic crisis was the result of a liquidity trap. For 10 points each:
Name this 2008 Nobel Laureate who writes the New York Times blog “The Conscience of a Liberal”.
Krugman’s New Theory of this thing helped him earn the Nobel. A positive balance of this thing means that a country is exporting more than it is importing.
Krugman’s theory built upon the work of David Ricardo, who formulated this concept that states that even absolutely advantaged countries can benefit from specialization, assuming they have a lower opportunity cost.
Paul Krugman
trade
comparative advantage
These units are typically represented between two forward slashes. For 10 points each:
Name smallest linguistically useful units of sound which can be combined to create morphemes or larger units. Minimal pairs differ by only a single one of these.
Divergent phonetic realizations of a single phoneme, such as the “k” in “kill” and “skill”, are known by this term.
These are the smallest linguistic units that can have literal or practical meaning. They can be combined to form phrases, clauses, or sentences, and are composed of letters.
phonemes
allophones
words
Its female counterpart is named after Electra. For 10 points each:
Name this theorized unconscious sexual attraction by boys towards their mother, creating antipathy towards the father figure.
This 1927 book argued that Freud’s Oedipus complex was not universal as boys in the title group were raised by their maternal uncles.
This Polish anthropologist wrote Sex and Repression in Savage Society, as well as Argonauts of the West Pacific, in which he described the kula ring.
Oedipus complex [or Oedipal complex]
Sex and Repression in Savage Society
Bronislaw Malinowski
A series of experiments studying this concept found that it decreases with decreased immediacy to the authority.
Name this concept studied in those experiments inspired by the trial of Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann. In those experiments, "teachers" were told to give shocks of increasing intensity to "learners" who failed to learn word pairs.
In this other experiment, the formulator of the experiment on obedience to authority tracked letters as they traveled through the social network from the Midwest to a certain person in Sharon, Massachusetts.
The small-world experiment and the experiment on obedience to authority were conducted by this American social psychologist.
obedience to authority figures
small-world experiment [prompt on "six degrees of separation"]
Stanley Milgram
A zero-sum one of these occurs when the gains of one competitor are negated by the losses of others.
Name these hypothetical situations created by a namesake study of decision making. In these constructs, exemplified by the prisoner's dilemma, rational beings cooperate and compete with each other.
In game theory, a dominant strategy for a player is one which is this type of response to all of his opponent's strategies.
This equilibrium can be used to predict the outcome of a non-cooperative game. In this state, no player can benefit by changing his own strategy, assuming the other player's strategy remains unchanged.
games
it is the best response to all the opponent's strategies [accept any answer indicating that the dominant strategy has an optimal payoff for the player no matter which strategy his opponent chooses; do not accept an answer that is less specific]
Nash equilibrium
In Trop v. Dulles, Chief Justice Earl Warren wrote that this concept "must draw its meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society."
Name this concept prohibited in the Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution. This phrase may have first been used to describe the sentence of Titus Oates after the uncovering of the Popish Plot.
In Furman v. Georgia, the Supreme Court declared that inconsistencies in this form of punishment make this cruel and unusual. In the United States, it is primarily conducted through lethal injection.
In Discipline and Punish, this French philosopher analyzed the modern shift from public torture to idealized prisons like Jeremy Bentham's Panopticon.
cruel and unusual punishment [accept equivalents like "cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment"; do not accept specific instances like "torture" or "enhanced interrogation"]
death penalty [or capital punishment; or execution; accept obvious equivalents]
Paul-Michel Foucault
Albert Camus described it as the only philosophical question.
Name this act of killing oneself. One man studying it noted its increased prevalence among Protestant communities, as well as its decreased prevalence during times of war.
Suicide was analyzed in a case study by this French sociologist, who helped develop sociology as a field with his The Rules of Sociological Method.
In The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life, Durkheim described the process by which Native Americans attribute human qualities to these objects. These objects are paired with Taboo in a work by Sigmund Freud.
suicide
David Ã‰mile Durkheim
totems [or totemism]
In this work, the author justifies despotism over barbarians to prepare them for democratic rule.
Name this 1859 essay in which the author argues for freedom of speech and other forms of the title concept and argues that the only reason the title concept should be limited is to prevent harm to others.
On Liberty was written by this British philosopher who also wrote Utilitarianism.
In another work, John Stuart Mill presented the title "System of" this subject, which includes his five methods, including the methods of agreement and concomitant variations. It is frequently taught in its propositional form.
On Liberty
John Stuart Mill [or John Stuart Mill; or John Stuart Mill; prompt on partial answer; do not accept "James Mill"]
logic
This concept argues that individual self-interest in the economy benefits society overall. For 10 points each:
Name this metaphor used by a Scottish economist to describe the self-regulation of a free market.
This economist posited the idea of the "invisible hand" in his works The Theory of Moral Sentiments and The Wealth of Nations.
One critic of the "invisible hand" is this economist, who examined America's inequity in The Price of Inequality, and attacked the global economy in Globalization and Its Discontents.
"Invisible Hand"
Adam Smith
Joseph Stiglitz
Bonus: Its adult participants yelled “Sockeroo!” and “Pow!” For ten points each:
Name this 1960s experiment which discovered that children exposed to aggressive behavior against the namesake toy were more likely to act aggressively themselves.
The Bobo doll experiment was conducted by this Stanford psychologist, who worked with Dorothea and Shelia Ross. He also authored Social Foundations of Thought and Action.
The Bobo doll experiment demonstrated the “observational” and “social” theory of this process, which allows humans to acquire new behaviors and information. Repetition is a method for achieving this process.
Bobo doll experiment
Albert Bandura
learning [accept wordforms and equivalents] &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: The host chief of this event bears a mask termed the <em>geekumhl</em>, which represents the spirit <em>Dzunukwa</em>. For ten points each:
Name this gift-giving ritual practiced by Native Americans like the Kwakiutl from the Pacific Coast. Its primary goal is to redistribute wealth, and the Indian Act of Canada once banned its practice.
This “Father of American Anthropology” studied the potlatch ritual and wrote The Mind of Primitive Man. Notable students of him included Margaret Mead.
This other student of Franz Boas and author of Zuni Mythology contrasted the “shame” culture of Japan to the “guilt” one of the United States in a more famous work.
potlatch
Franz Uri Boas
Ruth Benedict &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: It notes the struggle between Eros and Thanatos and introduces the concept of a death drive. For ten points each:
Name this work which proposes “oceanic feelings” as a reason for religion and claims that mankind is unhappy as a result of society’s attempts to repress its instinctive behavior.
The author of Civilization and Its Discontents also analyzed these entities in a book about the “Interpretation” of them, and described them as a sort of “wish fulfillment” and a “Royal Road to the Unconscious Mind.”
This Austrian founder of psychoanalysis wrote Civilization and Its Discontents and The Interpretation of Dreams.
Civilization and Its Discontents
dreams
Sigmund Freud [or Sigismund Schlomo Freud] &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: Answer these things about demand, for ten points each:
The equilibrium of a market is reached when the demand curve intersects with this positively sloping curve. This curve shows how much firms and individuals are willing to sell at a given price.
This quantity, taken by dividing the percent change in quantity demanded by the percent change in price, shows how responsive consumers are to price changes. A value of zero for this quantity implies a vertical demand curve.
A negative value for the cross-price elasticity of demand means that two goods have this kind of relationship. If two goods have this kind of relationship, a price increase for one will lead to an increase in demand for the other.
supply curve
price elasticity of demand [accept word forms like elastic; accept inelastic]
substitute goods or substitutes &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: He formulated the law of three stages, which include theological and metaphysical stages. For ten points each:
Identify this founder of positivism, who was influenced by Henri Saint-Simon and coined the term “altruism.”
Auguste Comte is also considered the founder of this discipline, which studies the interaction between humans. A prominent thinker in this field was Max Weber, the author of Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
Another important sociologist is this French thinker, who wrote The Division of Labor in Society. He also distinguished sociology from other fields in his Rules of the Sociological Method.
Isidore Auguste Marie François Xavier Comte
sociology
David Émile Durkheim &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: This quantity rises due to the law of diminishing returns. For ten points each:
Name this quantity whose curve intersects with the average total cost curve at its lowest point. Profit-maximizing firms seek to produce at the point where the curve of this quantity intersects with the marginal revenue curve.
While these firms produce where marginal revenue equals marginal cost, they increase the price to a point on the demand curve. These firms are the sole supplier of a good, and John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil was one of them.
In these markets, the marginal cost curve, average total cost curve, and marginal revenue curve all intersect at one point in long-term equilibrium. These markets are characterized by many suppliers of undifferentiated goods.
marginal cost [or MC; prompt on “cost”; do not accept or prompt on “opportunity cost”]
monopoly [do NOT accept or prompt "monopsony"]
perfectly competitive market [or perfect competition; prompt on “competition”] &lt;BZ&gt;
Bonus: The “tit for tat” strategy was proposed as the best solution to the iterated form of this construct. For ten points each,
Name this situation in which two criminals may choose to betray each other, even when it appears it is in their best interests to cooperate.
The prisoner’s dilemma is analyzed in this field that studies strategy in decision making. Nash equilibrium is a key concept in this discipline.
These mathematical systems, used to analyze processes in game theory and the sciences, undergo random and memoryless transitions between a finite number of states independent of previous events.
prisoner’s dilemma
game theory
discrete-time Markov chain [prompt on “MDP” or “Markov decision process”] &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: The value of a good produced in the US by a French firm counts towards it. For ten points each:
Name this quantity calculated by adding up the value of all final goods and services produced in a given country. Unlike the gross national product, ownership does not matter.
Real GDP constitutes the X-axis of a model that graphs this quantity and its counterpart. The long-run curve of this quantity is vertical, and cost-push inflation is caused by a leftward shift of this.
Because the population of a country affects its GDP, dividing GDP by the population of the country is a more accurate indicator of its economic health. That value is denoted by this Latin term.
Gross Domestic Product or GDP
aggregate supply [do not accept or prompt on “supply”]
GDP per capita &lt;BZ&gt;
[missing]
Name this benefit of a firm caused by different cost ratios of various commodities that is often based on conditions in different countries.
In On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, David Ricardo described comparative advantage in relation to two European countries producing wine and cloth. Name either.
David Ricardo formulated the "Iron Law of" these, claiming that like any good, they will trend towards a market equilibrium.
comparative advantage
England and/or Portugal (do not accept "Britain" or "United Kingdom")
wages (accept pay or other equivalents)
[missing]
Name this kind of market that can be created by the government through the granting of patents and copyrights. Common geographic ones include public utilities.
Because the firm in a monopoly supplies fewer goods than would create equilibrium, this reduction of economic efficiency occurs as buyers who would pay more than the equilibrium price are shut out of the market.
Deadweight loss occurs because a monopolist, like any capitalist in a rational choice system, seeks to maximize this quantity. As a market approaches perfect competition, this value for each seller approaches zero.
monopoly
deadweight loss (accept excess burden or allocation inefficiency)
profit (accept income)
[missing]
Name this Constitutional amendment that bans excessive bails and fines.
The Eighth Amendment explicitly bans punishment described by this phrase. In Francis, it involved a man who was electrocuted five times.
In the 2005 case of Roper v Simmons, the Supreme Court reversed the precedent set by Sanford v Kentucky in proclaiming the death penalty "cruel and unusual punishment" against this class of people.
Eighth Amendment (or 8)
cruel and unusual punishment
minors (accept those under 18 years of age or equivalents like 17 or under, prompt on "child"ren)
[missing]
Name this experiment in which a group of men were emasculated and given little sensory stimulation. It was conducted by Philip Zimbardo.
During the experiment, one particularly sadistic guard on the night shift was nicknamed after this movie star.
The experiment was conducted at Stanford University in this U.S. state.
Stanford prison experiment
John Wayne (prompt on "Marion Morrison" due to context)
California
[missing]
Name this Swiss developmental psychologist whose system used four discrete stages of development in children.
During this first of Piaget's [pee-ah-jays] stages of development, which lasts from birth until around two years, a child learns object permanence while maintaining an egocentric view of its environment.
Piaget's theories have been used in this field, abbreviated A.I., which has the goal of designing machines that can reason, learn, and use human languages.
Jean Piaget
sensorimotor
Artificial Intelligence
Answer the following about African languages, for 10 points each:
This language mostly prominent today in East Africa developed as a result of mixing Bantu, Arabic, and some European languages. In this language, "hakuna matata" means no worries, and is generally a wonderful phrase.
In written characters, many African languages such as Xhosa use a character symbolized by an exclamation point. Those sounds are pronounced by making this noise.
This is the most common language spoken at homes in South Africa. This Bantu language shares its name with a time standard which has replaced Greenwich Mean Time in recent usage.
Swahili language
alveolar click [accept people actually, like, alveolar clicking]
Zulu
In this scenario, two players are given a choice between cooperating and defecting. For 10 points each:
Name this situation in game theory in which defecting is the best decision, even though mutual cooperation would lead to the optimal outcome.
Both players choosing to defect is an example of this concept, in which players know the strategies of others and make the best decision for themselves with that knowledge.
This theorem developed by John von Neumann laid the groundwork for game theory, although it only applies to two player zero-sum games with finite strategies.
Prisoner's Dilemma
Nash Equilibrium
Minimax Theorem
He advocated raising taxes to pay for World War II, rather than increased deficit spending, and notably opposed the gold standard. For 10 points each:
Name this British economist, whose namesake school of thought holds that aggregate demand influences economic output.
This major work by Keynes was published during the Great Depression, and lays out the framework of his major economic ideas.
Published in 1919, this book by Keynes criticized the results of the Versailles Conference, especially the extraordinary reparations leveled upon the Germans.
John Maynard Keynes
The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money
The Economic Consequences of the Peace
One experiment investigating this effect involved subjects conversing with a stranger over an intercom, who then proceeded to fake an epileptic seizure. For 10 points each:
Name this social phenomenon, in which the presence of greater numbers of people decreases the probability of individuals giving aid to a potential victim.
The murder of this New York resident first brought the bystander effect to the attention of researchers, although many details of her death were inaccurately reported.
This experiment involved subjects being tested on the length of lines while in a room with actors giving incorrect answers; many subjects went with the crowd and answered incorrectly.
Bystander Effect
Kitty Genovese
Asch Conformity Experiment
Name some animals used in psychological studies and experiments, for 10 points each:
John Watson conditioned Little Albert to fear a white one of these rodents. Laboratory types of these rodents generally traverse mazes, and they are slightly larger than mice.
B. F. Skinner trained these animals to play ping pong, and in Skinner's Box, they pecked at a device to release food. Skinner also devised a plan using these birds to guide missiles.
Harry Harlow studied "comfort contact" in these animals by using wire and cloth surrogate mothers. He also placed these animals in a "Pit of Despair" to study depression.
Rats
Pigeons
Rhesus Monkeys
One subject in this experiment became known as "John Wayne" for his cruelty. For 10 points each:
Name this psychological experiment conducted by Philip Zimbardo, in which students were chosen to be either inmates or guards.
Following the Stanford Prison Experiment, Zimbardo published this book, which examines how good people can turn evil.
This other experiment conducted at Stanford University by Albert Bandura involved observing children's interactions with the namesake toy, in order to examine aggression.
Stanford Prison Experiment
The Lucifer Effect
Bobo Doll Experiment
Supply-side economics argues for a lower rate for this economic institution. For 10 points each:
Name this method used by the government to raise revenue from sales, property, income, wealth, and payrolls, among others.
This curve plots taxation against government revenue, and can be used to find the optimal rate to maximize revenue.
Increasing taxes past a certain point decreases revenue, due to an increase in this inefficient quantity. It equals one half times the change in price times the change in quantity demanded.
Taxation [accept word forms such as "taxes"]
Laffer Curve
Deadweight Loss
This idea, loosely based on evolutionary principles, was first applied to the economic world by Joseph Fisher, and was popularized by Richard Hofstadter. For 10 points each:
Name this concept, defined by the phrase "survival of the fittest".
Darwin was influenced by the 1798 An Essay on the Principle of Population by this man, which contrasted the geometric growth of population and the arithmetic growth of food supply. The epithet 'dismal science' for economics was coined based on a work by this man.
This 19th century philosopher coined the phrase "survival of the fittest" in his book Principles of Biology.
Social Darwinism (accept word forms)
Reverend Thomas Robert Malthus
Herbert Spencer
Union leaders and socialists often described this term as being at odds with labor, although they were generally referring to its owners. For 10 points each:
Give this term from economics, which describes the machinery and tools used to produce goods more efficiently. Its 'human' variety is acquired through education and training.
The Cobb-Douglas function estimates the output of these entities as a function of capital and labor using two exponents. Modeled as profit maximizers, these producers' optimization concerns determine the supply curve.
The four basic economic resources are land, labor, capital, and this fourth "resource", a French-derived term for the risk-taking ability to combine the other three resources to start a business or firm.
 capital
 firms [or businesses]
 entrepreneurship [or similar answers]
There are three of these units in the word "bats"--"b," "a," and "ts." For 10 points each:
Name these linguistic units who map to a single meaningful sound. They may combine to form morphemes and are often represented by single letters.
These pairs of words differ in only one phoneme, like "bat" and "pat" in English. They may be used to distinguish between phonemes that are different and allophones.
English has an alphabet, meaning each letter represents a phoneme. In contrast, these writing systems use pictures to represent words or morphemes. Ancient Egyptian is a notable example.
phonemes
minimal pairs
hieroglyphics
This effect was demonstrated in China in 2011 after the two year old Wang Yue was hit by a van and truck in the street yet ignored by 18 people. For 10 points:
Name this effect in which the title people fail to give help in an emergency. As the number of people present increases its strength also increases.
The bystander effect is sometimes also named for this woman who was murdered while returning to her Queens home. The media account of 38 witnesses who failed to help may have been exaggerated.
The bystander effect is largely due to this other effect in which those present expect others to help while at the same time giving up their roles as individuals.
bystander effect
Catherine Susan "Kitty" Genovese [accept Genovese syndrome]
diffusion of responsibility
This man taught people like Margaret Mead and Zora Neale Hurston. For 10 points each:
Name this German-American "Father of Anthropology" who argued against racist beliefs in his The Mind of Primitive Man.
Boas founded the anthropology program at this Ivy League university. Located in New York City, this university subsequently held the country's leading anthropology program.
One of Boas's students was Alfred Kroeber, who studied this last surviving member of the Yana people of California. This man's name comes from the Yana for "man."
Franz Boas
 Columbia University
 Ishi
This man taught people like Margaret Mead and Zora Neale Hurston. For 10 points each:
Name this German-American "Father of Anthropology" who argued against racist beliefs in his The Mind of Primitive Man.
Boas founded the anthropology program at this Ivy League university. Located in New York City, this university subsequently held the country's leading anthropology program.
One of Boas's students was Alfred Kroeber, who studied this last surviving member of the Yana people of California. This man's name comes from the Yana for "man."
Franz Boas
 Columbia University
 Ishi
This type of object was used in an experiment in which an adult yelled phrases like "Sock him" and "Kick him." For 10 points each:
A Bobo type of what toy was repeatedly hit by an adult as a child watched in an experiment studying observational learning?
This psychologist conducted the Bobo doll experiment, and repeated it with variations in which the children watch films and cartoons of violence.
These specific cells in the brain have been found to fire both when the subject itself acts and when it observes another subject acting.
doll
Albert Bandura
mirror neuron (prompt on "neuron")
Elizabeth Loftus showed that this process can be tricked and manipulated. For 10 points each:
Name this human ability in which information is stored, retrieved, and recalled. The short term form is often called its "working" form.
Many psychoanalysts have proposed that humans perform this action, in which painful memories are submerged in the subconscious.
The early philosopher and psychologist Hermann Ebbinghaus demonstrated this effect, in which information is better memorized when it is learned over long periods of time.
 memory
 repression
 spacing effect
Name some different economic markets, for 10 points each:
Competition is diminished in this type of market in which a single seller dominates the market.
The reverse of the monopoly is this structure characterized by a single buyer and many sellers. Government contracts are an example.
Similar to a monopoly is this market structure, which is characterized by a kinked demand curve and sticky prices. In it, the market is dominated by a few sellers, rather than one.
monopoly (accept word forms)
monopsony (accept word forms)
oligopoly (accept word forms)
Belonging needs fall below esteem needs in a structure theorized by this psychologist. For 10 points:
Identify this psychologist whose hierarchy of needs places psychological needs at its base.
These needs are placed at the the peak of Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs. Maslow used biographical analysis of such figures as Thomas Jefferson and William James to show common traits of those who had achieved this level of his hierarchy.
Maslow wrote that self-actualizers tend to have more of these than other people. Often thought to be religious experiences, Maslow described these as being times when one feels simultaneously incredibly powerful and incredibly powerless.
Abraham Maslow
self-actualization
peak experiences
He distinguished between biological and cultural needs in A Scientific Theory of Culture. For 10 points each:
Name this Polish functionalist anthropologist who described the kula ring practice of the Trobriand Islanders in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
This anthropologist described the kula ring and other forms of gift exchange such as the potlatch in his book The Gift.
The title of a Malinowski book pairs "Coral Gardens" with this practice, which often sees the use of rituals and spells.
Bronislaw Malinowski
Marcel Mauss
magic (accept Coral Gardens and Their Magic)
His most famous experiment began as work on digestive systems. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian scientist who noticed that dogs expecting food upon the ringing of a bell began to salivate even when only the bell was rung.
Pavlov's study of dogs was an example of this type of conditioning, in which a response is automatically conditioned to a stimulus. It should not be confused with operant conditioning.
When Pavlov removed the pairing of the bell with food, extinction of the salivation response occurred. However, after a long period of time, the dogs automatically began salivating again, a response given this name.
Ivan Pavlov
classical conditioning (or respondent conditioning; prompt on "Pavlovian conditioning")
spontaneous recovery (prompt on partial answer)
Bonus: You are getting very sleepy... For ten points each:
Name this altered state of consciousness in which subjects may respond to suggestions to act certain ways. The social-influence theory of this phenomenon contends that people subconsciously fake it to be “good subjects”.
Although people claim that therapeutic hypnosis cured them of addictions and even physiological disorders, such results are probably the result of this effect, where hypnosis works on subjects who think it will work.
Ernest Hilgard proposed that hypnotized subjects can put their arm into ice water painlessly due to this phenomenon, which separates different levels of consciousness. Its “neo” form posits a “hidden observer” during hypnosis.
hypnosis (accept word forms)
placebo effect
dissociation &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: She observed the Kwakiutl Indians of the Northwest coast and the Dobu culture of New Guinea. For ten points each:
Name this anthropologist whose Patterns of Culture expressed her views of cultural relativism. She wrote about the Japanese guilt and shame cultures in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
This father of modern anthropology taught Ruth Benedict and Margaret Mead. His own studies of the Kwakiutl led him to develop his ideas of cultural relativism.
Boas also taught this linguist who formulated the hypothesis that language influences thought with Benjamin Whorf.
Ruth Benedict
Franz Boas
Edward Sapir &lt;DA&gt;
Bonus: They typically measure physiological changes in such factors as blood pressure and galvanic skin response. For ten points each:
Name these machines which can be used to detect lies.
Polygraph tests are typically not permitted as evidence in court due to the prevalence of these cases, where people who tell the truth are marked as liars. This term also describes people mistakenly diagnosed with a disease.
This American psychologist studied how facial expressions called microexpressions could be used in lie detection. His work was incorporated in the TSA’s SPOT program.
polygraph machines
false positive
Paul Ekman &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: It can be described by the Big Five traits, which include factors such as conscientiousness and extraversion. For ten points each:
Name this term which describes the pattern of thoughts, emotions, and behaviors in people. Temperament is considered the innate component of it.
Carl Jung’s Psychological Types provided the basis for this personality test. It uses a combination of four dichotomies, such as sensing versus intuition and thinking versus feeling.
This other personality test analyzes subjects’ reactions to nearly bilaterally symmetric images, five in black and white and five in color. Its results can be interpreted by the Exner scoring system.
personality
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (prompt on just one name)
Rorschach Inkblot Test (or the Rorschach technique) &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: It proposed alleviating poverty through a negative income tax, and argued for the expansion of the money supply. For ten points each:
Name this work which sought to define the liberal in European Enlightenment terms. It advocates replacing the Bretton Woods system with a floating exchange rate system.
This economist wrote Capitalism and Freedom and co-authored Free to Choose with his wife. He advocated for monetarism and criticized the Phillips curve with the natural rate of unemployment.
Friedman was a leader of this school of economics, which rejected Keynesianism. Named for a Midwestern university, its other members included Ronald Coase, Robert Fogel, and George Stigler.
Capitalism and Freedom
Milton Friedman
Chicago School of Economics &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: He earned the 1904 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine for his research about the digestive system. For ten points each:
Name this Russian psychologist who more famously monitored salivation to show that dogs can learn to associate the ringing of a bell, with the arrival of food.
Pavlov championed this branch of behaviorism in which subjects learn to anticipate events by pairing two or more stimuli that are presented in close succession.
In classical conditioning, the bell in Pavlov’s experiment is considered this type of event. These stimuli elicit no response until they are presented with an unconditioned stimulus.
Ivan Pavlov
classical conditioning (prompt on conditioning; do not accept “operant conditioning”)
neutral stimulus &lt;HX&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about a psychoanalyst who isn’t Freud, for ten points each:
This psychoanalyst broke with Freud over his assertion that humanity has a collective unconscious. He described the anima and animus as representing the feminine and masculine parts of personality.
Jung believed that these universal symbols were used to channel human experience and resulted in typical patterns of behavior.
Jung also coined this term, which describes events coming together in an unlikely manner, or a “meaningful coincidence.”
Carl Jung
archetypes
synchronicity &lt;DA&gt;
Bonus: It moves outward when an economy expands or technology is improved. For ten points each:
Identify this curve from economics which plots the maximum quantity of one good that can be produced against another, such as the trade-off between guns and butter.
The slope at a given point on the PPF is the amount of one good to produce more of the other, the marginal opportunity type of this entity. The next-best alternative given up in a decision is referred to as the opportunity-this.
A graph similar to the PPF plots this quantity for all individuals in a society. Points on that curve are necessarily Pareto-efficient.
production possibility frontier (or production possibility curve)
cost
utility (accept UPF or utility possibility frontier) &lt;MS&gt;
[missing]
 Identify this curve from economics which plots the maximum quantity of one good that can be produced against another, such as the trade-off between guns and butter.
 The slope at a given point on the PPF is the amount of one good to produce more of the other, the marginal opportunity type of this entity. The next-best alternative given up in a decision is referred to as the opportunity-this.
 A graph similar to the PPF plots this quantity for all individuals in a society. Points on that curve are necessarily Pareto-efficient.
 production possibility frontier (or production possibility curve)
 cost
 utility (accept UPF or utility possibility frontier)
[missing]
 Name this effect in which the presence of others makes people less likely to react in emergency situations.
 This phenomenon is thought to magnify the bystander effect in large groups. It maintains that people are discouraged from action by the inaction of others around them.
 The murder of this New York bartender is often incorrectly cited as an example of the bystander effect. She was raped and stabbed to death in the presence of over 30 witnesses, none of whom tried to help.
 bystander effect (accept Kitty Genovese effect, but do not reveal if not given)
 diffusion of responsibility
 Kitty Genovese
[missing]
 Name this term which describes the pattern of thoughts, emotions, and behaviors in people. Temperament is considered the innate component of it.
 Carl Jung's Psychological Types provided the basis for this personality test. It uses a combination of four dichotomies, such as sensing versus intuition and thinking versus feeling.
 This other personality test analyzes subjects' reactions to nearly bilaterally symmetric images, five in black and white and five in color. Its results can be interpreted by the Exner scoring system.
 personality
 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (prompt on just one name)
 Rorschach Inkblot Test (or the Rorschach technique)
[missing]
 Name these machines which can be used to detect lies.
 Polygraph tests are typically not permitted as evidence in court due to the prevalence of these cases, where people who tell the truth are marked as liars. This term also describes people mistakenly diagnosed with a disease.
 This American psychologist studied how facial expressions called microexpressions could be used in lie detection. His work was incorporated in the TSA's SPOT program.
 polygraph machines
 false positive
 Paul Ekman
[missing]
 Name this anthropologist whose Patterns of Culture expressed her views of cultural relativism. She wrote about the Japanese guilt and shame cultures in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword.
 This father of modern anthropology taught Ruth Benedict and Margaret Mead. His own studies of the Kwakiutl led him to develop his ideas of cultural relativism.
 Boas also taught this linguist who formulated the hypothesis that language influences thought with Benjamin Whorf.
 Ruth Benedict
 Franz Boas
 Edward Sapir
[missing]
 This national bird of the United States is named for its white plumage on the top of its head and not for its lack of hair. It faced near-extinction in the middle of the 20th century.
 This woman's book Silent Spring raised awareness for the plight of the bald eagle population and the impact of DDT on other birds. She was a marine biologist, and also wrote The Sea Around Us.
 The United States is not a signatory to this treaty, signed in a namesake European capital, which restricts the use of Persistent Organic Pollutants like DDT.
 bald eagle (accept Haliaeetus leucocephalus)
 Rachel Carson
 Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants
[missing]
 Identify this city, in which a September 11, 2012 attack on the US Embassy led to the death of Ambassador Chris Stevens.
 This UN Ambassador was considered for appointment to Secretary of State in President Obama's second term, but withdrew her name due to the expected controversy over the Benghazi attacks.
 This Arizona senator and former presidential candidate attacked Rice for claiming that the Benghazi attack was the result of a video. He appeared on Face the Nation with Rice in November.
 Benghazi
 Susan Rice
 John McCain
It proposed alleviating poverty through a negative income tax, and argued for the expansion of the money supply. For ten points each:
Name this work which sought to define the liberal in European Enlightenment terms. It advocates replacing the Bretton Woods system with a floating exchange rate system.
This economist wrote Capitalism and Freedom and co-authored Free to Choose with his wife. He advocated for monetarism and criticized the Phillips curve with the natural rate of unemployment.
Friedman was a leader of this school of economics, which rejected Keynesianism. Named for a Midwestern university, its other members included Ronald Coase, Robert Fogel, and George Stigler.
Capitalism and Freedom
Milton Friedman
Chicago School of Economics
[missing]
 This psychoanalyst broke with Freud over his assertion that humanity has a collective unconscious. He described the anima and animus as representing the feminine and masculine parts of personality.
 Jung believed that these universal symbols were used to channel human experience and resulted in typical patterns of behavior.
 Jung also coined this term, which describes events coming together in an unlikely manner, or a "meaningful coincidence."
 Carl Jung
 archetypes
 synchronicity
[missing]
 Name this Russian psychologist who more famously monitored salivation to show that dogs can learn to associate the ringing of a bell, with the arrival of food.
 Pavlov championed this branch of behaviorism in which subjects learn to anticipate events by pairing two or more stimuli that are presented in close succession.
 In classical conditioning, the bell in Pavlov's experiment is considered this type of event. These stimuli elicit no response until they are presented with an unconditioned stimulus.
 Ivan Pavlov
 classical conditioning (prompt on conditioning; do not accept "operant conditioning")
 neutral stimulus
This predominantly Muslim country has fought three wars against India since 1947.  For 10 points each:
Name this country which was ruled by Pervez Musharraf from 2001 after leading a military coup until his ouster in 2008.  Its capital is Islamabad and its largest city is Karachi.
Name the current President of Pakistan, the widower of Benazir Bhutto, who was called "Mr. Ten Percent" for his corruption while his wife was Prime Minister.
Pakistan's founder and first head of state was this man who led the Muslim League for most of its existence and split with Gandhi over the partitioning India.
Pakistan
Asif Ali Zardari
Mohammed Ali Jinnah
This work clarifies a psychological model laid out in the author's earlier essay Beyond the Pleasure Principle.  For 10 points each:
Name this essay whose first title concept differs from the primitive latter title concept by its distinction of reality from fiction.
The Ego and the Id was written by this German psychologist who theorized five stages of psychosexual development and founded psychoanalysis.
Freud's seminal work dealt with the interpretation of these entities which are the subject of Hobson and McCarley's activation-synthesis theory.
The Ego and the Id [accept equivalents; accept Das Ich und das Es]
Sigmund Freud
Dreams
The fieldwork which formed the basis of this book was followed by the author's study on Manus Island.  For 10 points each: 
Name this book which theorizes a lack of stress during adolescence due to the sexual looseness of society on the titular Pacific island.
This author of Male and Female and Culture and Commitment and female student of Ruth Benedict wrote Coming of Age in Samoa.
This Ruth Benedict book differentiates between shame culture and guilt culture as part of its analysis of World War II era Japanese society.
Coming of Age in Samoa
Margaret Mead
The Chrysanthemum and the Sword
