Some people in this island chain claim to have “seceded where others failed.” For 10 points each:
Name this archipelago, part of which is home to the unrecognized Conch Republic. These islands on the Gulf of Mexico took the brunt of the 1935 Labor Day hurricane.
Ernest Hemingway owned a house on this Key, which also contains Harry Truman’s “Little White House.” This Key lies only 90 miles from Cuba.
The US Highway of this number runs from Fort Kent, Maine in the North to Key West in the South. There is no Interstate with this number.
Florida Keys [prompt on The Keys]
Key West
1 [or One] &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego]
A mountain range on this island is named for Otto von Bismarck, since Germany was one of its colonizers. For 10 points each:
Name this island north of the Gulf of Carpentaria. Its landmass is currently split between Indonesia and another nation.
A peninsula in far West New Guinea is named for its resemblance to the shape of this kind of creature. New Guinea also has many species of cassowaries, which are a flightless type of this creature.
Pollution on this autonomous island of Papua New Guinea led to a rebel movement in the 1990s that notably used coconut oil as fuel. This island is east of New Guinea and is named for a French explorer.
New Guinea [do NOT accept or prompt on “Papua New Guinea”]
birds [or fowls]
Bougainville Island &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
The Red, White, and Black branches of the Volta unite in this country to form Lake Volta behind the Akosombo Dam. For 10 points each:
Name this West African nation, once known as the Gold Coast under British rule, whose capital is Accra.
The British also had a colonial presence in this modern day nation where they created the Oil Rivers Protectorate. More recently, its city of Lagos has become Africa’s most populous.
This other former British colony in West Africa is named for the river that bisects the country. The location of the main British fort in this country was renamed Kunta Kinteh Island in 2011.
Ghana
ANSWER: Nigeria [Federal Republic of Nigeria]
The Gambia [Republic of the Gambia] &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
A lake in this state cannot support fish, but abundant brine shrimp and flies allow for a robust ecosystem. For 10 points each:
Name that state, home to the aforementioned Mono Lake, which was featured in Westerns like High Plains Drifter. This state also contains the volcanically active Lassen Peak.
South of Mono Lake stands Mount Whitney, the highest peak of this mountain range and the entire contiguous United States. This mountain range also includes Yosemite National Park.
California is also home to many examples of this type of biome, a shrubland shaped by a dry, “Mediterranean” climate and frequent wildfires. The Channel Islands contain this biome.
California
Sierra Nevada [or the Sierra Nevadas]
chaparral [or chaco; or matorral] &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
The native habitats of popular aquarium fish likes Discus, Oscars, and Angelfish are found within this river and its tributaries. For 10 points each:
Name this river that is linked to the Orinoco by the Negro and Casiquiare Rivers. It discharges the most freshwater of any river in the world and is the longest in South America.
Along with Lake Malawi, this deepest African Rift Lake is the primary source of African cichlids. Lake Kivu feeds this lake via the Ruzizi River, which borders Burundi and Rwanda.
Monster goldfish nearly two feet long have been caught in this alpine lake along the California-Nevada border after aquarium owners dumped them there. Its only outlet is the Truckee River.
Amazon River
ANSWER: Lake Tanganyika
Lake Tahoe &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
The Uros People live on 42 man-made islands in this lake. For 10 points each:
Name this large lake between Peru and Bolivia. The Uros use balsa reeds growing in the lake and nearby Desaguadero River to manufacture the islands.
This city on the Persian Gulf has two man-made islands, Jumeirah and Jebel Ali, in the shape of palm trees. A third one is under construction.
The Flevopolder in this country is the largest artificial island reclaimed on water in the world. It was built from the Zuiderzee, a bay just north west of Amsterdam.
Lake Titicaca
Dubai, UAE
The Netherlands [or Holland; or the Kingdom of the Netherlands; or Nederland; or Koninkrijk der Nederlanden] &lt;David Dennis&gt;
Walter Griffin won the design contest for this planned city, whose central lake is named for him. For 10 points each:
Name this capital city of Australia known for its geometrically-designed neighborhoods.
Canberra is part of the Australian Capital Territory, which is entirely surrounded by this state. This state contains the highest point in Australia, Mt. Kosciuszko in the Snowy Mountains, along its border with Victoria.
This most populous city in Australia and the capital of New South Wales hosted the Summer Olympics in 2000 and contains a famous Opera House.
Canberra
New South Wales
Sydney &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
The state of Kerala enjoys this nation’s lowest positive population growth rate, highest literacy rate, and highest life expectancy. For 10 points each:
Kerala is on the Malabar coast of what country whose capital is Dehli?
Kerala lies on this sea, which is bound in the east by India. The Indus River drains into this body of water.
Near the headwaters of the Indus lies this region, known best in the West for its exported wool. It is paired with Jammu as an Indian-administered state, though Pakistan also claims it.
India [or Bharat; or Republic of India; or Bharatavarsha]
Arabian Sea
Kashmir [or Kashmiri] &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
This park includes a region of bubbling clay hot springs called the Fountain Paint Pots. For 10 points each:
Name this national park whose thermal features include the multicolored Grand Prismatic Spring and the Old Faithful geyser. It hosts the remnants of several supervolcano calderas.
This other national park contains Going-To-The-Sun Road and borders Canada’s Waterton Lakes National Park. The namesake structures of this national park are rapidly retreating.
Stones nicknamed “Rockefeller’s Teeth” line roads in this Maine National Park, which is also home to Cadillac Mountain on Mount Desert Island.
ANSWER: Yellowstone National Park
ANSWER: Glacier National Park
Acadia National Park &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
The southern stretches of this river run through “Little Dixie,” as well as its namesake state’s “Rhineland.” For 10 points each:
Name this river, known as the “Big Muddy” for its brown color, which Lewis and Clark traveled for the longest stretch of their expedition. It meets the Mississippi at St. Louis.
This city on the Missouri was chosen over the cities of Yankton and Huron to become the capital of South Dakota due to its central location.
This major river of Nebraska joins the Missouri near Omaha. Scotts Bluff National Monument in the Nebraska panhandle is on the western reaches of this river.
ANSWER: Missouri River
Pierre, South Dakota
Platte River &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
According to Wikipedia, this mountain range is the world’s longest. For 10 points each:
Name this range that runs down the western side of South America, from Colombia through Chile.
This highest peak of the Andes, located in Argentina, features a route of ascent called the Polish Glacier Traverse.
The subduction of this tectonic plate is largely responsible for the formation of the Andes and the region’s continuing seismic and volcanic activity.
the Andes [or the Andes Mountains; or Cordillera de los Andes; or Los Andes]
Mount Aconcagua [or Cerro Aconcagua]
Nazca plate&lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
Uranium mining led to the founding of Uranium City on the north shore of this remnant of the glacial Lake McConnell. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian lake, which along with a namesake river is a major source of tar oil sands.
Lake Athabasca is part of the province of Saskatchewan, which along with Manitoba is known as this kind of province in honor of their grassland terrain. A Canadian TV show was named for a “Little Mosque on” this kind of terrain.
Saskatchewan and Alberta contain several tributaries of this longest Canadian river, once named “Disappointment River” by its namesake explorer after it failed to be the Northwest Passage.
Lake Athabasca
prairie [or the Prairie Provinces]
Mackenzie River &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
Less than 100 miles north of the Fukushima Daiichi power plant, it was the major city hit hardest by Japan’s 2011 earthquake and subsequent tsunami. For 10 points each:
Name that Japanese “City of Trees,” the largest city in Japan’s northern Tohoku region.
In 2004, a tsunami in this ocean killed over two hundred thousand people. The earthquake at fault was centered off the coast of Sumatra, which borders this ocean.
In 1755, an earthquake near this Iberian capital led to a tsunami surging up its Tagus River. Casualties from the event were in the tens of thousands.
ANSWER: Sendai
Indian Ocean
Lisbon &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
Deception Island off the coast of this continent has geothermally-heated black sand beaches. For 10 points each:
Name this continent whose namesake peninsula separates the Bellinghausen Sea from the Weddell Sea. It also includes the Ross Ice Shelf and the South Pole.
Across the Drake Passage from Antarctica is this island divided between Chile and Argentina, whose city of Ushuaia is generally called the world’s southernmost.
The highest point in Antarctica is this mountain in the Ellsworth Range. It named for a US Congressman from Georgia who generously funded the Navy and Antarctic exploration.
Antarctica
Tierra del Fuego
ANSWER: Vinson Massif [or Mount Vinson] &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Chris Chiego&gt;
