A 1961 UN Convention aimed primarily at preventing individuals from receiving this status. For 10 points each:
Identify this status. Fridtjof (“FRID-choff”) Nansen is best known for his work with individuals of this status, developing a type of documentation which influenced successors that are issued under a 1954 UN convention.
Members of the Rohingya ethnic group, who are primarily natives of this country, are often stateless due to a 1982 law that restricts their citizenship. The recent persecution of the Rohingya in this country has led to widespread criticism of Aung San Suu Kyi (“chee”), its most powerful politician.
In a bizarre series of events, this politician became stateless in 2017. He lost citizenship in his home country when he became a Ukrainian to accept an appointment as Governor of the Odessa oblast, and then had that Ukrainian citizenship revoked. Before that, he lived for a time as a hipster in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
statelessness [prompt on refugee]
Republic of the Union of Myanmar [or Pyidaunzu Thanmăda Myăma Nainngandaw; or Burma]
Mikheil Saakashvili &lt;MC, Current Events&gt;
Allan Savory has controversially proposed to employ a “planned” version of this activity as the central component of his “holistic management” theory. For 10 points each:
Identify this activity. Disputes over this activity involving the Tarok and Tiv peoples and another group have caused violent clashes in the states of Taraba and Benue (“BAIN-way”), which led them both to ban it in 2017.
The Tarok and Tiv have come into conflict with this pastoralist people, who have been migrating south due to drought in the Sahel, where they are one of the largest groups. This group got into a conflict with the neighboring Hausa people in the nineteenth century while being led by the Muslim cleric Usman dan Fodio.
The conflict over grazing rights has brought chaos to this African country, where President Muhammadu Buhari has often been said to favor the Fulani because he is one. This has earned him the criticism of Wole Soyinka, an intellectual from this country who has accused the Fulani of grazing cattle in his yard.
grazing animals [or herding cattle; do not accept “ranching”]
Fulani people [or Fula people or Fulbe people]
Federal Republic of Nigeria &lt;MC, Current Events&gt;
This corporation employs a computer system called the “Task Manager” or “MyGuide” to assign its employees with things to do and time limits for doing them. For 10 points each:
Name this corporation, which uses “coachings” to chastise employees who fail to complete those tasks on time. Another technology recently deployed by this company is the InstaPay service of an app called Even, which allows its employees to be paid on a more flexible schedule.
Walmart’s use of technology in managing its workforce is often seen as a contemporary example of the system of “scientific management,” which was pioneered by this man and is often named for him. His system is known for breaking work actions down into component tasks and attempting to improve those components’ efficiency.
Walmart has its second-largest number of stores in this country, where it once tried to pay its employees partially using company scrip. Walmart’s activities in this country were investigated after it allegedly paid bribes to allow it to build a store near this country’s ancient city of Teotihuacán (“tay-oh-tee-wah-KAHN”).
Walmart Inc.
Frederick Winslow Taylor [or Taylorism]
Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos] &lt;AK, Current Events&gt;
On February 26, 2016, more than 30 million people voted in parliamentary elections in this Islamic Republic, which follows the system of Vilayat-e Faqih. For 10 points each:
Mohammad Yazdi, the current leader of this country’s Assembly of Experts, which elects its Supreme Leader, is likely to lose his seat. Hassan Khomeini, the grandson of this country’s first Supreme Leader, was disqualified from running for the Assembly.
This is the name given to the protest movement surrounding Reformist candidates for the 2009 Iranian presidential elections. This movement was named for the theme color of Mir-Hossein Mousavi’s campaign, which lost to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in a count marred by widespread fraud.
This author of books on Kant and Kripke, the current speaker of the Majlis, will likely retain his seat in the holy city of Qom. He left the Principlist faction to run as an independent, and received endorsements from President Rouhani, General Qasem Soleimani, and Green Movement supporter and former president Mohammad Khatami.
Islamic Republic of Iran
Green Movement
Ali Larijani [prompt on “Larijani” as his brother is the head of the judiciary]
In a recent speech to three state media companies, this man said that “all news media run by the party must work to speak for the party’s will and its propositions, and protect the party’s authority and unity.” For 10 points each:
Name this leader who has expanded on his predecessors’ policies of “public opinion guidance” and “public opinion channeling” with his “48-character policy” of “public opinion struggle.” He also introduced the Four Comprehensives and the China Dream.
The Chinese central government issued policies in February 2016 to clamp down on the supply of this commodity, the sale of which is the most important source of revenue for most local governments. This commodity is officially held collectively in rural areas and by the state in urban areas.
This Director of former president Hu Jintao’s General Office is the most recent top official to be implicated in President Xi’s anti-corruption campaign. He was arrested in July 2015 after his younger brother Wancheng fled to the United States, and his son Gu died in 2012 in a Ferrari crash in Beijing.
Xi Jinping
land
Ling Jihua
The pre-revolution population of this city was higher than that of Damascus, with which it also contests the title of oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the capital of a namesake province where an offensive by the Syrian Army in February 2016 cut the main supply route from Turkey to the rebels who have held about half of this city since 2012.
Aleppo’s Shi’a-majority suburbs of Nubl and az-Zahra are adjacent to the canton of Efrîn, one of three de facto autonomous regions controlled by this Kurdish military unit, the main component of the Syrian Democratic Forces. It currently operates under American air cover east of the Euphrates and Russian air cover west of the Euphrates.
Personnel from this U.S. military unified combatant command reportedly took control of Rmelan airbase in YPG-controlled territory near Qamişlo before a February 2016 visit by anti-ISIS coalition envoy Brett McGurk. Its Army branch includes the Green Berets, while its Navy branch includes the Seals.
Aleppo [accept Halab or Heleb]
YPG [accept People’s Protection Units or Yekîneyên Parastina Gel]
special operations command [accept special forces]
On February 17, 2016, a hot mic caught an off-air exchange where one presidential candidate told this man “you had me almost as a legendary figure.” For 10 points each:
Name this former Florida congressman who hosts a weekday morning talk show with Willie Geist and Mika Brzezinski. He has recently been criticized for his positive treatment of Donald Trump.
Morning Joe is a show on this traditionally left-leaning network whose slogan is “lean forward.” On February 26, 2016, this network hired Rick Tyler, the spokesman fired by the Cruz campaign for circulating a misleading video of Marco Rubio.
On the same day, this political science professor and host of a namesake daytime MSNBC show announced a walk-off of her program after a month of pre-emptions, writing that she had been “effectively and utterly silenced.”
Joe Scarborough
MSNBC
Melissa Harris-Perry
 The program which led to the existence of this database was authorized by an order from Roger Vinson. 
Identify this database, whose records are supposedly kept for five years. A review group convened by President Obama recommended that it be transferred to a private third-party, with access granted only when a Section 215 order is obtained.
Slides about this program, which Edward Snowden revealed, advertise its ability to collect emails, chat messages, and VoIP data from the servers of "providers" like Google and Facebook, prompting denials from these companies that they created back doors for the NSA.
The NSA cooperates with its counterparts in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and Britain, which together comprise this intelligence-sharing group. This group operated the ECHELON system, and its members are party to the UKUSA Agreement.
MAINWAY [or descriptive answers like the NSA's database of call metadata]
PRISM
Five Eyes
A popular slogan denounces this group as the "party of crooks and thieves." 
Identify this political party. This party sponsored a 2013 law banning "gay propaganda", and it controls 238 of the 450 seats in the State Duma.
Sergei Sobyanin won a disputed 2013 election to this office as the United Russia candidate, which was the first direct election to this office in ten years. Sobyanin succeeded Yury Luzhkov in this office after Luzhkov was dismissed by Dmitry Medvedev.
This blogger was Sobyanin's main opponent in the election, which he contested as the candidate of RPR-PARNAS, and coined the phrase "party of crooks and thieves". His arrest on charges of embezzlement was widely seen as politically-motivated.
United Russia [or Edinaya Rossiya]
Mayor of Moscow
Alexei (Anatolievich) Navalny
This country recently legalized the activities of certain vigilante militias.
Identify this country, where vigilantes recently seized control of the towns of Tierra Colorada and Apatzingan. The militias are to be incorporated into this country's Rural Defense Corps.
The militia that seized Apatzingan did so in opposition to this cartel, which issued a moratorium on violence during a visit by Benedict XVI. It is most active in the Michoacan state, where it extorts money from avocado farmers.
The militias were legalized by this current president of Mexico, who represents the PRI. He succeeded Felipe Calderon in 2012.
Mexico
Knights Templar [or Caballeros Templarios]
Enrique PeÃ±a Nieto
Answer some questions about legal challenges to the Affordable Care Act
The case NFIB v. Sebelius dealt primarily with this provision of the Affordable Care Act. The Court held that this provision of the law was a constitutional exercise of Congress's power to tax, but not of its power to regulate commerce.
The court also faced the question of whether the individual mandate could be separated from the rest of the law such that, if it were to be struck down, the entire law would not have to be struck down as well. That concept is denoted by this term.
The case Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby deals with the question of whether a for-profit company's objection to the mandate that insurance policies cover contraception violates this law's requirement that the government "not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion".
the individual mandate [accept descriptive answers like "the requirement for individuals to purchase health insurance" and equivalents. Prompt if the word "individual" or equivalents like "people" is not included, and do not accept "employer mandate" or anything about businesses. This tournament opposes the concept of corporate personhood.]
severability
Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 [or RFRA]
In November 2013, an agreement between these two powers that would have required one to gradually adopt the other's policies protecting certain food names suddenly stalled.
Identify these two powers, which would have formed a "Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area". One party sought reforms to create an independent judiciary in the other as a precondition to the signing of the agreement.
This recently-ousted president of Ukraine backed out of negotiations with the EU, sparking the Euromaidan protests. He was previously a target of the Orange Revolution.
Yanukovych was supported by this political party, which is led by former prime minister Mykola Azarov. In the 2012 election, it derived its support primarily from the Russian-speaking areas of eastern Ukraine.
the European Union [or EU] and Ukraine
Viktor Yanukovych
the Party of Regions [or Partiya Regionov]
This program emphasizes the ability to work with "informational text". 
Identify this set of educational standards, promoted by the National Governors Association. It currently consists of standards in English and mathematics and does not require students to learn cursive.
The math standards are based on the "Principles and Standards" developed by this organization. This organization's promotion of "reform mathematics", associated with the textbook Mathland, was criticized by Mathematically Correct.
Much of the funding for the development of the Common Core has come from this philanthropic organization. Other projects funded by this organization include the Millennium Scholars program and the Teaching Channel.
 Common Core State Standards Initiative
National Council of Teachers of Mathematics [or NCTM]
Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation
This movement opposes the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories and draws its inspiration from a similar initiative undertaken against Apartheid South Africa.
Name this three-word movement that refers to escalating treatment of Israeli settlements and and their products. Scarlett Johanson ran afoul of this movement for working as a spokeswoman for SodaStream, whose factory is in Ma'ale Adumim.
This academic organization adopted a resolution in support of BDS in December 2013, though the larger Modern Language Association did not go as far in separating itself from Israeli academics at its January 2014 meeting.
The New York State Legislature is currently considering a bill that would cut funding to any academic that contributes to the ASA. That bill is sponsored by this longtime Speaker of the New York State Assembly.
Boycott-Divestment-Sanctions [or BDS]
American Studies Association [or ASA]
Sheldon Silver
This movement opposes the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories and draws its inspiration from a similar initiative undertaken against Apartheid South Africa.
Name this three-word movement that refers to escalating treatment of Israeli settlements and and their products. Scarlett Johanson ran afoul of this movement for working as a spokeswoman for SodaStream, whose factory is in Ma'ale Adumim.
This academic organization adopted a resolution in support of BDS in December 2013, though the larger Modern Language Association did not go as far in separating itself from Israeli academics at its January 2014 meeting.
The New York State Legislature is currently considering a bill that would cut funding to any academic that contributes to the ASA. That bill is sponsored by this longtime Speaker of the New York State Assembly.
Boycott-Divestment-Sanctions [or BDS]
The New York State Legislature is currently considering a bill that would cut funding to any academic that contributes to the ASA. That bill is sponsored by this longtime Speaker of the New York State Assembly.
Sheldon Silver
In 2011, this man was interviewed by the FBI based on a tip from the Russian government. For 10 points each:
Name this man killed in shootout with police in Watertown, Massachusetts, who along with his brother planned the Boston Marathon bombing.
Tamerlan Tsarnaev's family lives in this region of Russia, which is famous for being next door to Chechnya, whose secessionist movement has sometimes spilled over to here.
This city is the capital of Dagestan. Tamerlan's father lives here, and when interviewed said that his sons were set up.
Tamerlan Tsarnaev [prompt on Tsarnaev]
Dagestan
Makhachkala
Hope for breakaway nations seeking statehood was strengthened after the independence of South Sudan in July of 2011. For 10 points each:
This state, comprising the northern section of Mali, declared its independence in April of 2012 after Tuareg rebels forced the Malian Army out.
This group was founded in October 2011 in order to fight for the independence of Azawad. It has been accused of ties with Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, and by April 1, 2012 it had taken control of almost all of northern Mali.
A great setback for Azawad has been the intervention of this European nation on the Malian side. This nation's new president has controversially raised taxes on the wealthy.
Azawad 
MNLA [or National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad]
France 
Chemical weapons are in the news again. For 10 points each:
Shortly after the Boston Marathon bombing, letters containing this poison were sent to President Obama and to Senators from Mississippi and Alabama. Charges have been dropped against the Elvis impersonator initially arrested for this crime.
A general from this nation recently claimed that there is evidence that Syria has used chemical weapons against its rebel movement. The United States says it is skeptical.
This group, composed of anti-government forces, would be the target of any chemical attack by the Syrian government. It has been in a state of rebellion for over a year.
ricin
Israel
Syrian National Coalition [or National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, or Coalition Nationale]
The National Alliance-led Jubilee alliance candidate beat the Orange Democratic Movement-led CORD alliance candidate in this country's March 2013 presidential election. For 10 points each:
Name this country in which the IEBC oversaw the elections per the rules of a 2010 constitution. Like in 2007, Raila Odinga, this country's current Prime Minister, will appeal the results.
A politician with this surname won the Kenyan presidential election. Uhuru shares this surname with Jomo, the Kikuyu leader who was Kenya's first president.
In 2007, Raila Odinga ran for president against this politician who has been the Kenyan president since 2002. This ethnic Kikuyu was accused of electoral fraud in that election by Odinga, a claim which led to post-electoral violence.
Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya
Kenyatta 
Mwai Kibaki
For 10 points each, answer these questions about women elected to the Congress in 2012.
The election of Congresswomen Ann McLane Kuster and Carol Shea-Porter from this state made it the first in history to have an entirely female Congressional delegation. Kelly Ayotte and former governor Jeanne Shaheen are its Senators.
This Harvard Law professor, who helped set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, defeated incumbent Scott Brown to win a US Senate seat from Massachusetts.
This Hawaiian became the first Asian-American woman elected to the Senate.
New Hampshire
Elizabeth Warren
Mazie Hirono
In a recent case in Brazil, this crime was committed against an American tourist who had been abducted from a public transit van. For 10 points each:
Name this crime, which has also recently made headlines in India
Talking about rape proved troublesome for this Republican Senate candidate in Indiana, who lost in 2012 after calling babies conceived from rape "a gift from God."
Earlier this week, a student at this American university sparked outrage when he incorporated a sign saying "You Deserve Rape" into his street preaching. He was criticizing campus coeds for dressing provocatively.
rape [or gang-rape]
Richard Mourdock
University of Arizona
This organization in its current form was created by the 1999 Sirte Declaration. For 10 points each:
Name this international organization, currently conducting peacekeeping missions in such places as Darfur and Somalia.
In 2008, the African Union conducted a successful invasion of this island nation to overthrow Colonel Mohamad Bacar, who had refused to step down after losing an election. This former French colony has its capital at the city of Moroni. 
Under the terms of this agreement, named for a west African capital city, the African Union will enter a monetary union and adopt a single currency, often termed the "afro", by 2028. However, Lesotho is attempting to delay this until 2031.
African Union [or AU]
Comoros
Abuja Treaty
In March, this nation's major newspaper accused Apple Computer of luring tens of thousands of students into high interest loans and other discriminatory behavior. For 10 points each
Name this major nation that recently forced the CEO of Apple to apologize for sub-standard customer support and other allegedly unfair practices.
This man recently became the new president of China, and took a high-profile trip to the United States with his equally high-profile wife.
As one of his first acts as president, Xi approved the purchase of two dozen Su-35 fighter jets from this nation. This nation's other popular arms exports include the Kilo class submarine.
People's Republic of China 
Xi Jinping 
Russia 
For 10 points each, answer the following about US gubernatorial elections in 2013.
In New Jersey, this female state senator is the most likely Democratic nominee to run against Republican Chris Christie.
In Virginia, this current Attorney General will be the Republican nominee for Governor, despite concerns that he is too conservative on social issues.
Cuccinelli will be running against Democrat Terry McAuliffe, who is most famous for previously holding this position. This post is currently held by Debbie Wasserman Schultz.
Barbara Buono
Ken Cuccinelli
Chairperson of the Democratic National Committee [or DNC Chairman; or DNC Chair]
Answer the following about political changes in the year 2012, for 10 points each.
This is the only one of the five UN Security Council countries to not undergo an election or change of leadership in the year 2012.
This politician is expected to become the Chinese head of government in March 2013, replacing Wen Jiabao as Premier of the State Council, alongside Xi Jinping's rise to the presidency. He will become a leading figure in the fifth generation of Communist Party Leadership.
This far right-wing party's candidate in the French 2012 elections, Marine Le Pen, received eighteen percent of the vote in the first round, falling behind Francois Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy. It is the third-largest political party in France.
United Kingdom [or Britain or Great Britain]
Li Keqiang
Front National [or FN or National Front]
This group was led by a former chief justice who retired in 1998. For 10 points each:
Name this body which produced a 630‐page report on reform of Indian rape laws in January 2013.
The Verma panel was formed in response to the much‐publicized December 2012 gang rape incident on a bus in this Indian territory.
Another case of violence against South Asian women in 2012 came when a Taliban gunman shot this teenage Afghani girls' education activist. Following her treatment in the UK, she became the namesake of a "day" to be celebrated on November 10.
the Verma panel
Delhi [or the National Capital Territory]
Malala Yousafzai [or Malala]
A new party in this election for this body was led by a longtime host of news roundtable shows who entered politics in 2012. For 10 points each:
Identify this legislative body which was up for election in January 2013. The new Yesh Atid party came in second with the slogan "Where Is The Money?" and platform against corruption and exemptions from the draft.
This leader of the right‐wing Ha‐Bayit Ha‐Yehudi or Jewish Home party was expected to win more seats in the election, but instead has seen a diminishing of his hardline proposals, which included separating Palestinian‐dominated areas into three tiers and denying any Palestinian state.
This party led by incumbent prime minister Benjaming Netanyahu retained its plurality of Knesset seats by a margin of one, underperforming in the election.
the Knesset
Naftali Benett
Likud
Identify these people whose seats were contested in the 2012 elections, for 10 points each.
This former Representative from Texas, nicknamed "Dr. No," retired from the House to run for president in 2012, but failed to win the Republican nomination.
This Maine Republican, one of the "Gang of 14," announced in February 2012 that she would retire at the end of her term because she was sick of partisanship. Her Senate seat was won by independent Angus King.
This Representative defeated hotelier Jim Graves by just over four thousand votes in her closest election campaign to date.
Ron Paul
Olympia Snowe
Michelle Bachmann
This conflict has included the Hama massacre, and it escalated after incidents such as the torture of the adolescent Hamza al-Khatib. For 10 points each:
Name this ongoing, extremely bloody Arab Spring event in which a coalition is attempting to overthrow the government of Bashar Assad.
In November 2012, this former leader of the Syrian National Coalition became head of the new National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces . This Damascus imam is a former executive with Royal Dutch Shell.
Areas controlled by the Free Syrian Army fly an iconic flag in which green and black wings flank a white stripe with three of these object on it.
Syrian civil war [or Syrian uprising, etc.]
Moaz al-Khatib
red stars [prompt on stars]
In 2011, the AP reported that this organization sent spies on a whitewater rafting trip taken by Yale's Muslim student association. For 10 points each
Name this organization, led by Raymond Kelly, which partnered with the CIA to monitor Muslims, and has been criticized for its "stop and frisk" policy targeted at minorities.
The NYPD's electronic surveillance activities likely violated this law, originally passed in 1978, that governs wiretapping by the government and sets up a namesake court to oversee requests for wiretaps.
FISA was overhauled in 2008 following the uncovering of this organization's warrantless wiretapping program. Under the program, the executive branch approved requests for wiretaps, rather than FISA court.
NYPD [or New York City Police Department, or obvious equivalents]
FISA [or Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978]
National Security Agency [or NSA]
A member of the Partido Accion Nacional, this man stepped down in November of 2012 from his highest office. For 10 points each:
Name this man who served as Secretary of Energy under Vicente Fox and ramped up Mexico's drug war as that country's president.
This cartel is also known as the Arellano Felix Organization and is named for a border town. Its influence has waned with the guilty plea of Benjamin Arellano-Felix to racketeering, and the Sinaloa Cartel has increased influence in this cartel's namesake city.
This woman was nominated by the PAN to succed Calderon, but she finished third in the 2012 election.
Felipe Calderon
Tijuana cartel
Josefina Vazquez Mota 
Answer the following about recent developments in women's rights, for 10 points each.
On September 26, 2011 King Abdullah announced that women would both have the right to vote and be able to run in the 2015 municipal elections in this nation.
Saudi Arabia, ironically, ratified this UN international convention which came into effect in September of 1981 and aims to end gender-based discrimination. The United States signed but didn't ratify and Sudan, Somalia, and Iran remain non-signatories.
On March 8, 2011 Representative Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin introduced legislation to remove the congressionally imposed deadline for ratification of this amendment. This amendment only garnered 35 of the needed 38 ratifications before its deadline for ratification expired in 1979.
Saudi Arabia
CEDAW [or Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women]
the Equal Rights Amendment [or ERA]
Janaury 2013 rallies in Ramadi and Fallujah called for the release of prisoners held by this man's government. For 10 points each:
Name this leader of the Islamic Dawa Party, who has been prime minister of Iraq since 2007.
This other political leader of Iraq has lead the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan since 1975. The Iraqi president for the past eight years, this man suffered a stroke and was briefly in a coma in December 2012.
One of many weird Iraq War figures, Ahmad Chalabi, remained part of Iraq's political process as late as 2010, when he was in charge of purging senior officials tied to this political party of Sadaam Hussein from politics.
Nouri Al-Maliki
Jalal Talabani
the Baath party 
The last communication from this man was a status update that read "Jumping off the gw bridge sorry." For 10 points each:
Name this Rutgers freshman who committed suicide in September 2011, after dorm mates recorded his sexual encounter with a middle aged man from Craigslist.
Last month, this Indian-born Rutgers was convicted of violating Tyler Clementi's privacy. He refused a plea bargain because it would not have shielded him from deportation.
Ravi was also convicted of this crime, which was created by New Jersey hate crime laws. It criminalizes threatening a person because of their race, color, gender, or other such factors.
Tyler Clementi
Dharun Ravi
bias intimidation
This man's wife is called "Ri Sol-ju," though it is almost certainly a pseudonym, and many believe that she is actually a singer and that the government is destroying evidence of her past identity. For 10 points each:
Name this Supreme Leader of North Korea.
North Korea may be planning a test of this mobile mid-range missile, first revealed in 2010. This missile may have a range of about 4,000 kilometers, and may one day be fitted with nuclear warheads.
Early in April 2013, this European head of government was criticized when he gave a speech claiming, almost certainly incorrectly, that North Korean missiles could reach his country.
Kim Jong-un [prompt on partial answer]
Musudan [or BM-25; or Taepodong X; or Nodong-B; or Mirim; do not prompt on "Taepodong" or "Nodong" alone]
David William Donald Cameron
He resigned the presidency of his country in 1998 after the decline of the rupiah and widespread riots. For 10 points each:
Name this former world leader, who succeeded Sukarno as president of Indonesia.
Suharto used this term to refer to his administration, in contrast to Sukarno's "Old" version of it. The economic parts of this policy were set by the so-called "Berkeley Mafia."
Suharto took power from Sukarno after leading Indonesian troops against this movement, who on the eponymous date in 1965 killed six generals in an attempted coup.
Suharto
New Order 
30 September Movement [or G30S; or Gestok; let's be generous and accept September 30 Movement too]
Jeromy is a Tea Party activist from Florida. Answer the following about his politics For 10 points each:
In 2010, Jeromy helped elect this tea-party aligned conservative as governor of Florida. This bald businessman narrowly defeated Democrat Alex Sink in the general election.
Jeromy's favorite Congressman is this African-American Republican who represents Fort Lauderdale. This former colonel entered politics after being discharged from the military for personally torturing an Iraqi prisoner and he recently stated that over 80 House Democrats are members of the Communist Party.
Jeromy also supports this female Florida Attorney General, who was elected in 2010 with the support of Sarah Palin. She leads the group of 26 state Attorneys General who are challenging the individual mandate.
Rick Scott
Allen West 
Pam Bondi
Earlier this month, this federal agency was revealed to have hired a mind reader, paid $75,000 for bicycle building classes, and flown hundreds of interns to Palm Springs, all at taxpayer expense. For 10 points each:
Name this federal agency under fire for spending $800,000 on a Las Vegas conference for its staff. It is responsible for managing federal-owned real estate and providing federal agencies with office supplies.
Two weeks ago, President Obama responded to these revelations by sacking the head of the GSA, replacing him with an Assistant Secretary from this cabinet department currently headed by Tim Geithner.
 Another executive branch scandal involves this Justice Department program, which sold guns to drug traffickers in the hope of later arresting drug cartel leaders for illegal gun trafficking. The program ran into problems when federally-supplied guns started to be used in violent crimes.
General Services Administration [or GSA]
Treasury Department
Operation Fast and Furious [or Gunwalking]
Name these Massachusetts politicians, none of whom are nicknamed "Mittens," for 10 points each
After Mitt Romney, the second most famous Massachusetts Republican is probably this Senator, who is being challenged this fall by Harvard professor and consumer activist Elizabeth Warren.
Scott Brown won a 2010 election against this hilariously gaffe-prone state Attorney General. She ran an ad which misspelled "Massachusetts" and called former Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling a Yankee fan.
In 2006, this Democrat was elected the first African-American governor of Massachusetts. He was re-elected in 2010.
Scott Brown
Martha Coakley 
Deval Patrick
This man's tie-breaking vote in favor of the Walker Tariff effectively ended his political career. For 10 points each:
Name this Pennsylvania Democrat, the Vice-President of James K. Polk.
George M. Dallas served in the Polk administration with this man, who was Secretary of the Navy. He founded the Naval Academy, but may be more famous as a historian who wrote an authoritative history of the United States.
This cabinet position was created in the waning days of the Polk administration, but would not be filled until Zachary Taylor nominated Thomas Ewing to be its first holder.
George M. Dallas
George Bancroft
Secretary of the Interior
Since his FIDESZ [feed-ess] Party won a parliamentary supermajority in 2010, this man has introduced a new constitution, gerrymandered electoral districts, and enacted state control of media and culture. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial right-wing Prime Minister of Hungary, accused by critics of attempting to build a totalitarian state in modern Europe.
Viktor Orban's government is engaged in stormy bailout talks with this international organization. Its current head, Christine Lagarde, replaced the disgraced Dominique Strauss-Kahn.
Orban is opposed as too moderate by the even more right-wing party Jobbik, whose leaders have publicly denounced Jews and Gypsies. In 2009, Jobbik members staged a protest calling for the annexation of this neighboring country, whose southern regions contain a substantial Hungarian minority.
Viktor Orban
International Monetary Fund 
Slovakia 
This nation's landmark Pearl Roundabout was demolished by the government after it became a symbol for Arab Spring-inspired protestors. For 10 points each:
Name this island nation in the Persian Gulf, the headquarters of the US Navy's Sixth Fleet.
Bahrain's Arab Spring uprising was brutally crushed by troops from this larger Middle Eastern nation, which is connected to Bahrain by a causeway. This nation feared that Bahrainian protestors were too close to Iran.
The Saudi government allegedly made a large payment to this gulf Arab state, the headquarters of Al-Jazeera, after which Al-Jazeera coverage of the Arab Spring became far less favorable.
Bahrain
Saudi Arabia 
Qatar 
Answer three questions about contemporary Indian politics, for 10 points each.
The current head of the Congress Party is this widow of a former Prime Minister, who recently voiced support for legislating a universal right to food.
The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh is this woman of one name, who leads a party of Dalits or lower castes. She has recently solidified her hold on power in UP by supporting Muslim and Brahmin nominees to office, though her development policies like the Yomuna and Ganga Expressways have come under criticism.
A recent Wikileaks disclosure alleged cash was paid for parliamentary votes favorable to this 2008 treaty. This treaty was made possible when one side amended the 1954 Atomic Energy Act, making it possible to conclude this treaty, pursuant to that act's section 123.
Sonia Gandhi
Mayawati
US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement (accept equivalents that indicate the treaty governed proliferation of nuclear energy technology from the US to India.)
Andrew Breitbart posted a shirtless picture of this man, who replaced Charles Schumer in 1999. For 10 points each:
Name this Congressman forced to resign in 2011 after posting inappropriate pictures on Twitter.
Weiner labeled Republican representatives "cowardly" after the failure of a vote on this bill. This bill provided compensation and healthcare for 9/11 first responders, and was named for a police officer who died in 2006.
After a dubious claim by Majority Leader Eric Cantor, Anthony Weiner read from this book on the floor of the House. In this book, Miss Tuftmore's class visits the "Squeaker of the House" and requests a bill naming the national cheese.
Anthony Weiner 
James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010
House Mouse, Senate Mouse 
This paper was revealed to have hired the private investigator Glenn Mulcaire, who hacked the voicemail services of dead soldiers and their relatives. For 10 points each:
Name this News Corp owned British tabloid that closed in July of 2011 amid scandal.
This politician's son Max, the then head of Formula 1 racing, successfully sued News of the World for libel in 2008 for alleging that he had partied with Nazi memorabilia. This man founded the British Union of Fascists.
One of the chief allegations against News of the World is that it interfered with the investigation of this girl's 2002 murder by deleting her voicemail messages. Levi Bellfield was found guilty of killing her.
News of the World 
Oswald Mosley 
Milly Dowler 
In June of 2011, a dispute arose in this state's Supreme Court over whether or not Justice David Prosser choked Justice Ann Walsh Bradley. For 10 points each:
Name this state whose government was protested heavily by teachers after Governor Scott Walker proposed the elimination of most collective bargaining rights for unions.
This pair of brothers raised eyebrows by donating heavily to Walker's campaign. David founded Citizens for a Sound Economy and Charles cofounded the Cato institute.
This political advocacy group split off from Citizens for a Sound Economy in 2004. Obama named it as one of the "shadowy groups with harmless sounding names," and its agents were criticized for plastering fake eviction notices on Detroit homes in June of 2011.
Wisconsin
David and Charles Koch
Americans for Prosperity 
The world's largest brood of these insects, Brood XIX or The Great Southern Brood, started emerging in May 2011 in South Carolina, and the genus of the periodical type of these insects is prefixed with Magi-. For 10 points each:
Name this insect, often confused with locusts, whose males produce one of the loudest insect-made sounds.
Brood XIX disappears for this number of years before emerging. This number of years is prime, which helps prevent those cicada's lifecycles from interfering with the 17 year life cycle of other species in Magicicada.
Males use these structures located on the sides of the first abdominal segment to make their loud mating calls. Unlike in leafhoppers, those found in cicadas make sound by creating air in front of their namesake muscles which produces pressure sound waves.
cicada 
13 year cycle 
tymbals 
People who are paid by the government of this country to post positive propaganda on the internet are known as the "fifty cent party." For 10 points each:
Name this country where internet access is censored by the so-called "Great Firewall."
In January of 2010, Google publically revealed this widespread cyber-attack on its blog. Google threatened to pull out of China after it, and over thirty other companies were targeted by Chinese agents in this attack.
This was one of the companies attacked. One of this company's products competes with Microsoft's Silverlight and was called "no longer necessary" by Steve Jobs.
People's Republic of China [or PRC]
Operation Aurora
Adobe Systems
[missing]
Name this Middle-Eastern leader who inflamed the strife in his country by twice withdrawing from settlement talks sponsored by the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Saleh has lead this country since its north and south united in 1990. It's capital of Sana'a has been the site of protests.
This terrorist organization is based mainly in Yemen. It claimed responsibility for the Christmas day underwear bombing attempt and the 2010 attempt to bomb two cargo planes.
Ali Abdullah Saleh
Yemen
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula [or AQAP; prompt on "al-Qaeda"]
