Jake Shimabukuro’s virtuosic C minor ukulele cover of this song performed in Central Park was an early viral YouTube video. For 10 points each:
Name this song that begins with a guitar playing repeated A’s over the descending bass line “A, G, F-sharp, F.” Eric Clapton plays the lead guitar on this track from the White Album written during a period of disunity in the band.
Acoustic guitar arpeggios and recorder play over a similar descending bass line in the quiet introduction to this epic 8-minute track from Led Zeppelin IV. In March 2020, an appeals court ruled that it did not infringe on “Taurus,” a Spirit song with a similar riff.
“Gently Weeps” and “Stairway to Heaven,” along with Duke Ellington’s “In a Sentimental Mood” and George Harrison’s “Something,” all feature this ubiquitous motif in which one voice descends chromatically from the tonic while the harmony remains static otherwise.
“While My Guitar Gently Weeps” [prompt on “Gently Weeps”; prompt on “While My Ukulele Gently Weeps”]
“Stairway to Heaven”
line cliché &lt;ES, Other Arts: Music&gt;
During a disastrous Australian tour, this comedian told an audience member who asked him to talk about something other than America, “Fuck you, madam. That’s different, isn’t it?” For 10 points each:
Name this stand-up comic who was arrested in 1961 after a performance at a San Francisco nightclub where he said the word “cocksucker” and joked “to is a preposition, come is a verb.”
Bruce, like Jewish comedians Don Rickles and Mel Brooks, got his start performing in resorts in New York’s Catskill Mountains, a collection of venues given this colloquial name.
The Borscht Belt was also a major circuit for performers of this style of Ashkenazi Jewish folk music. In this musical style, the violin is played so as to produce krekhts, or “sobs.”
Lenny Bruce [or Leonard Alfred Schneider]
Borscht Belt
klezmer &lt;AE, Other Academic&gt;
The director of this film used real prostitutes and pimps in a scene in which the main character is convinced by Bobby to try gay sex work. For 10 points each:
Name this film directed by Lino Brocka in which Júlio comes to the title city in pursuit of his fiancée Ligaya, who was tricked into a prostiution ring. After her muder at the hands of Ah-Tek, Júlio kills him with an ice pick.
Brocka’s Manila in the Claws of Light has been restored by this director’s non-profit organization, the World Cinema Project. This man directed Mean Streets and Taxi Driver.
The WCP restored a film from this nation that ends with the protagonist wrecking his beloved motorcycle, titled Touki Bouki. Diouana works as a servant for a wealthy French couple in another film from this nation, Black Girl.
Manila in the Claws of Light [or Maynila, sa mga Kuko ng Liwanag]
Martin Scorsese (“scor-SAY-zee”)
Senegal (The directors are Djibril Diop Mambéty and Ousmane Sembène.) &lt;JH, Other Arts: Film&gt;
A song often interpreted as referencing this event is probably a song about hitchhiking, since its artist twice sings the line “ooh-ee, I tried to flag a ride.” For 10 points each:
Name this heavily mythologized event that may have inspired a musician to ask God “have mercy now, save poor Bob if you please” in his song “Cross Road Blues.”
During a 1941 trip to Mississippi to record Robert Johnson, musicologist Alan Lomax instead discovered this blues singer who first recorded the standards “Mannish Boy” and “Hoochie Coochie Man.”
During his final performance, Muddy Waters played with this British blues guitarist who paid tribute to Robert Johnson on his 2004 album Me and Mr. Johnson. He popularized Johnson’s “Crossroads” in the band Cream.
Robert Johnson’s deal with the devil [or equivalents mentioning Robert Johnson AND synonyms like “selling his soul to the devil”; prompt on partial answers]
Muddy Waters [or McKinley Morganfield]
Eric Clapton &lt;CK, Other Arts: Music&gt;
This artist’s stunts include visiting a museum with a purse filled with ketchup and walking around Macy’s wearing clothes coated in sticky white paint with a sign warning “Wet Paint.” For 10 points each:
Name this artist who, in another entry from her performance-art series Catalysis, rode the New York City Subway for a week with clothes doused in eggs, milk, vinegar, and cod oil.
After her Catalysis series, Piper created the alter-ego “Mythic Ego,” wandering around New York dressed in this manner. Marcel Duchamp also dressed in this manner as his alter-ego Rrose Sélavy (“air-rose say-lah-vee”).
This artist employed Piper as an assistant in the 1960s. He wrote “The execution is a perfunctory affair. The idea becomes a machine that makes the art.” in his manifesto Paragraphs on Conceptual Art.
Adrian Piper
drag [or crossdressing; or wearing clothes of the opposite gender]
Sol Lewitt &lt;CK, Other Arts: Performance&gt;
This artist was the cinematographer of <em>Daughters of Dust</em>, a film directed by his ex-wife Julie Dash that was the first film directed by an African-American woman to be shown to general audiences. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary artist who overlaid found footage documenting achievements and challenges faced by African-Americans over Kanye’s song Ultralight Beam in the work Love is the Message, the Message is Death.
This musician was inspired by the imagery of Daughters of Dust throughout music videos on her album Lemonade. Jafa worked on music videos for songs by this musician’s sister Solange, such as Don’t Touch My Hair and Cranes in the Sky.
In 2019, Jafa won a Golden Lion for his film The White Album at an exhibition in this city. A 2019 film festival in this city honored Joker with its top prize.
Arthur Jafa
Beyoncé [or Beyoncé Knowles-Carter]
Venice [or Venezia] (The events are the Venice Biennale and the Venice Film Festival.) &lt;VS, Other Arts: Film&gt;
Foday Musa Suso popularized this instrument in the West, playing it alongside Herbie Hancock on the album <em>Village Life</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this lute-and-harp-like instrument with 21 strings made by stretching a cowhide over a calabash, which is traditionally played by West African griots (“gree-OH”).
On the Kronos Quartet’s album Pieces of Africa, Suso plays kora and Dumisani Maraire, who popularized this Bantu ethnic group’s music, plays the mbira, or thumb piano. Thomas Mapfumo fused electronic interpretations of mbira music with “deep” lyrics full of defiant double meanings in this ethnic group’s language to create chimurenga.
On that album, Hamza El Din plays a North African instrument of this kind, called a tar. West African music often features hourglass-shaped instruments of this kind whose pitch can be adjusted to make them “talk.”
kora
Shona [accept deep Shona or Shona yakadzama]
drums [prompt on percussion] &lt;CK, Other Arts: Music&gt;
After being closed for a one-year hiatus, this restaurant reopened in 2018 and was ranked second in <em>Restaurant</em> magazine’s 2019 ranking of the best restaurants in the world. For 10 points each:
Name this restaurant that was voted the world’s best restaurant four times between 2010 and 2014. Under head chef René Redzepi it has been at the forefront of the New Nordic movement.
Noma is located in this Danish city. This city is also home to the Tivoli Gardens amusement park and the Little Mermaid statue.
Noma has recently published an encyclopedic guide to using microbial fermentation in cooking. Elsewhere in Nordic cuisine, this food is fermented to make the Icelandic dish hákarl.
Noma
Copenhagen [or København]
shark meat [or Greenland shark; or sleeper shark; prompt on fish] &lt;EM, Modern World&gt;
A phrase from this text was used to title the 2018 MoMA retrospective of Adrian Piper’s work. For 10 points each:
Name this text that Piper read aloud until she dissociated as part of the piece Food for the Spirit. Joseph Beuys put a copy of this book in a suitcase for his piece I Know No Weekend.
Thierry de Duve pitted modern art against the Critique of Pure Reason in a book titled for Kant “after” this artist, who invented conceptual art with his “readymades.”
After getting her PhD under John Rawls, Adrian Piper started performing a piece that consisted of teaching the audience how to dance to this genre of music. This genre, which originated in songs like “Cold Sweat,” titles a 1970 song that calls Clyde Stubblefield this kind of “Drummer.”
Critique of Pure Reason [or Kritik der Reine Vernunft]
(Henri-Robert-)Marcel Duchamp [accept Kant after Duchamp]
funk [accept Funk Lessons; accept “Funky Drummer”] &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
Edward Elgar criticized the “wild and virulent piano playing” associated with the suburbs at the opening of the flagship London store of <em>this</em> name on Oxford Street. For 10 points each:
Name three-word-phrase, a valuable trademark and logo in the recording industry which takes its title from a Francis Barraud painting of the terrier “Nipper” listening to a phonograph.
This American company acquired the Western Hemisphere rights to the His Master’s Voice trademark after buying the Victor company in 1929. While it was a subsidiary of G.E., this company created NBC as a radio station.
In 1968, RCA restricted use of the His Master’s Voice logo to releases on this classical music label, which had earlier released nearly all of Arturo Toscanini’s recordings with the NBC Symphony Orchestra.
His Master’s Voice [or HMV]
RCA [or the Radio Corporation of America]
RCA Red Seal Records &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
This character was originally forced offstage during the number “Another National Anthem.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who sings about Charles Guiteau’s life while the latter sings “I am Going to the Lordy.”
The Balladeer narrates Stephen Sondheim’s Assassins, which was inspired by an earlier musical of the same name by a man with this surname. Another man with this surname wrote the libretto for Sir Arthur Sullivan’s H.M.S. Pinafore.
Possibly due to the timing and subject matter, this singer left Assassins out of his 2002 survey of Sondheim songs. This tenor originated the title role of Sunday in the Park with George, and he won a Tony for playing Ché Guevara in Evita.
The Balladeer
Gilbert [accept Charles Gilbert, Jr. or W(illiam) S(chwenck) Gilbert]
Mandy Patinkin &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
This dancer was given her own talk show after a viral video in which she attacked Chinese reality TV for exploiting contestants’ pain. For 10 points each:
Name this host of the popular show “Dating China,” who was one of China’s foremost ballet dancers before retiring in 1995 and remains the foremost transgender Chinese celebrity.
Jin Xing wrote about having to give up dancing when her leg was paralyzed following gender confirmation surgery in a memoir named for this city on the Yangtze Delta, China’s largest.
Jin made her film debut in Resurrection of the Little Match Girl, which is like the Hans Christian Andersen story except it’s about a guy who gets sucked into an alternate dimension while desperately aspiring to this profession. This was the profession of sAviOr, who was banned from it for life after a 2010 scandal.
Jīn Xīng [jeen sheeng] [accept Kim Song]
Shanghai
StarCraft player [or SC player; accept Brood War player ; accept StarCraft II player or SCII player; prompt on e-sports player or video gamer; do not accept or prompt on answers about “streaming”] &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
The National Cartoonist Society gives out an annual award named for this man. For 10 points each:
Name this artist whose strip The Inventions of Professor Lucifer Gorgonzola Butts showcased the complicated, impractical machines for performing mundane tasks that became known by his name.
This illustrator of the collection Absurdities was the British counterpart of Rube Goldberg. A mechanical computer replaced by the Colossus at Bletchley Park was named for him.
This Swiss-born artist was inspired by Rube Goldberg machines to create some of his more complicated, longer-lasting sculptures, which unlike his Study for an End of the World No. 2 and Homage to New York, were not intended to self-destruct during viewing. He and Niki de Saint Phalle designed the Stravinsky Founntain.
Rube Goldberg [Reuben Garrett Lucius Goldberg]
Heath Robinson [William Heath Robinson]
Jean Tinguely &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
A theatre company tries to tour with the play <em>Golfo the Shepherdess</em> in this man’s film <em>The Travelling Players</em>, which uses just eighty shots for its 4-hour runtime. For 10 points each:
Name this director who grouped his films into trilogies of History, Silence, and Borders. He’s best-known for 1998’s Eternity and a Day.
Angelopoulos’s slow, subtle style has been contrasted with the extraversion of his countryman Costa-Gavras. Costa-Gavras is best-known for this darkly comic 1969 film in which The Deputy is assassinated via clubbing.
Angelopoulos is often compared to a director from this country known for films like Red Psalm. A man from this country directed the seven-plus-hour film Sátántangó.
Theo(doros) Angelopoulos
Z
Hungary [or Magyarország] (The directors are Miklós Jancsó and Béla Tarr.) &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
Answer the following about the small Swiss town of Vevey, for 10 points each.
Daniel Peter invented milk chocolate in Vevey while collaborating with this company, which is headquartered in Vevey. This evil, evil owner of the Poland Spring and Deer Park water brands convinced the World Water Council to somehow reclassify “access to drinking water” from a “need” to a “want.”
This man spent the last two decades of his life in Vevey, where a “hungry” statue of him stares at a gigantic fork, perhaps awaiting the reclassification of his hunger into a “want.” The statue may reference this man’s lead role in The Gold Rush.
Vevey was the birthplace of this 13th overall pick of the 2006 NBA draft, who’s probably the best Swiss basketball player of all time unless things go really well for Clint Capela. Kyle Korver’s 2019 piece “Privileged” recounts how eight NYPD officers attacked this man and broke his leg for literally no reason in 2015.
Nestlé
Charlie Chaplin
Thabo Patrick Sefolosha [prompt on Thabo] &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
A group of players of these instruments gained headlines in America by running the 1975 Boston Marathon in their distinctive uniforms. For 10 points each:
Name these traditional drums often played by people wearing only headbands and loincloths. These instruments are the centerpiece of an Earth Celebration held each year on Sado Island.
An ō-tsuzumi taiko drum is one of the four instruments played by the hayashi in this oldest extant form of Japanese drama, which uses masks typically made from cypress wood.
This actor played an expert taiko drummer in the 1958 film Rickshaw Man. This actor often characterized his roles with physical mannerisms like exaggeratedly shrugging his shoulders and scratching himself.
taiko [or daiko or deko]
Noh
Toshirō Mifune [accept names in either order] &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about photography and the New York Subway system:
This artist first came to prominence after Tseng Kwong Chi photographed him using chalk to draw on blank ad spaces in the subway. This AIDS activist often placed pairs of short lines around his figures to indicate movement.
This photographer’s renowned speed partially came from his use of a portable darkroom in the subway. This man supposedly said that the secret to his technique was “f/8 [“f-stop 8”] and be there”
Photographer Editta Sherman was photographed in a heavily-graffitied subway car by a man with this last name, who did fashion and street photography for the New York Times until his death in 2016. A photographer with this last name was photographed alongside the model Twinka in Yosemite Park by Judy Dater.
Keith (Allen) Haring
Weegee [or Arthur (Usher) Fellig]
Cunningham (Bill Cunningham and Imogen Cunningham) &lt;Arts - Visual&gt;
This director screamed at an actress to “Hit her! Hit her again!” during the hour-long filming of a fight scene, and he threw a monitor into the street after his leads giggled during the 100th take of their meet-cute. For 10 points each:
Name this Tunisian-French filmmaker, who became the first director to win a Palme d’Or alongside his lead actors for 2013’s Blue Is the Warmest Colour, starring Adèle Exarchopoulos and Léa Seydoux.
The long, gratuitous sex scenes in Kechiche’s films have been deemed exemplars of this two-word term. Laura Mulvey’s “Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema” coined this term for the scopophilic depiction of women by men.
The most recent instalment of Kechiche’s Mektoub, My Love trilogy has this subtitle. Ingrid Bergman’s Hollywood debut was as a violinist’s lover in a 1939 David O. Selznick film with this title.
Abdellatif Kechiche [kuh-SHEESH]
male gaze [do not accept or prompt on putative synonyms]
intermezzo &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
This man recorded Miles Davis’s albums <em>Workin’</em> and <em>Steamin’</em> in the living room of his own parents’ house. For 10 points each:
Name this man who helped create the “Blue Note Sound” at his namesake Studio in New Jersey. A remaster series called his namesake “edition” includes albums like Blue Train and Somethin’ Else.
Van Gelder recorded Don’t Go to Strangers and many other albums for a singer with this first name and surname Jones. A jazz and soul singer with this first name recorded the song “At Last” for Chess Records.
In 1957, Van Gelder became one of the first to embrace this recording technology, which required the use of two-track tape. This technology was finally adopted fully by the Beatles in 1968 for the White Album.
Rudy Van Gelder
Etta [accept Jamesetta, which was Etta James’s real first name]
stereophonic sound [or binaural] &lt;Arts - Auditory&gt;
Urban artisans in this country have traditionally sung poems called <em>malhun</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country, much of whose traditional Berber music is now studied from recordings made by composer-novelist Paul Bowles.
Bowles’s recordings were first released by the Library of Congress during the world music boom stoked by this label’s Explorer Series. This has been the Kronos Quartet’s primary label since 1985.
Another pioneering world music record label was Moses Asch’s Folkways Records, which is now owned by this organization.
Kingdom of Morocco [or al-Mamlakah al-Maghribiyah]
Nonesuch [accept Elektra Nonesuch]
Smithsonian Institution [accept Smithsonian Folkways] &lt;Arts - Auditory, Other&gt;
For a 2019 <em>New Yorker</em> profile, this musician shared her research on Frank Johnson, one of the many black forefathers of modern “white” genres like bluegrass and string band music. For 10 points each:
Name this musician who, after graduating from Oberlin with a degree in opera performance, took up the fiddle and founded the Carolina Chocolate Drops.
In 2017, Giddens became one of the rare musicians to perform at both this Rhode Island city’s annual Folk Festival and its Jazz Festival.
On her 2019 album There Is no Other, Giddens was accompanied by percussionist Francesco Turrisi on this kind of hand-held drum. This is the generic term for drums like tambourines that are wider than they are deep.
Rhiannon Giddens
Newport
frame drums &lt;Arts - Auditory&gt;
In 2019, workers in this job began to break their NDAs to speak out against working conditions after Keith Utley’s stress-induced heart attack in Tampa. For 10 points each:
Name this specific job, mainly managed by the contractor Cognizant. A 2016 article by The Verge relayed how individuals in this job had breakdowns and turned to rampant sex in company stairwells after being exposed to videos of stabbings and other extreme acts.
The terrible work conditions and low pay for Facebook contractor employees in Phoenix and Tampa is in stark contrast to the work done at Facebook HQ in this Silicon Valley city, which shares its name with the New Jersey city where Thomas Edison worked.
Facebook moderation standards have also been criticized for overreach, as when a post quoting this eighteenth-century document’s use of the phrase “Indian savages” was deemed hate speech.
content moderators of Facebook [accept equivalent answers indicating people who work for Facebook by screening user videos, photos, posts, etc; accept Facebook Community Action Team Members from Zuckerbot]
Menlo Park
U.S. Declaration of Independence &lt;Modern World&gt;
A volume in this series by Jonathan Lethem asks if the title “intermediary artifact” is “paranoid,” “Science Fiction,” or even “Asperger’s.” For 10 points each:
Name this book series published by Bloomsbury Press, which includes a John Darnielle novella about psychiatric patient Roger Painter, who waxes poetic about Black Sabbath.
Philip Shaw’s 33 ⅓ entry calls this 1975 album “equal parts rock and Rimbaud.” This album includes a version of “Land of a Thousand Dances” in a nine-and-a-half-minute epic about “Johnny,” and its cover photo was taken by Robert Mapplethorpe.
Ezra Furman’s wrote a 33 ⅓ volume on Transformer, the second solo album by this musician who led the Velvet Underground with John Cale. He also released the experimental album Metal Machine Music.
33 ⅓
Horses (by Patti Smith)
Lou Reed &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
This critic noted that the title style exhibits “an almost Freudian attachment to water” in the` essay “Notes on Film Noir.” For 10 points each:
Name this film critic who linked the styles of Robert Bresson,  Carl Theodor Dreyer, and Yasujiro Ozu in the 1972 book Transcendental Style in Film.
Schrader’s film First Reformed stars Ethan Hawke as one of these people. Claude Laydu played a “country” one of these people in a Robert Bresson film titled for his Diary.
Schrader also directed this 1985 biopic, for which Philip Glass and the Kronos Quartet provided the music. This film includes dramatizations of three novels by the title writer.
Paul Schrader
priests [accept clergy or rectors; accept Diary of a Country Priest or Journal d’un curé de campagne]
Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
In this country, a mandolin frequently accompanies folksong genres like the <em>polo</em> and <em>galerón</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country, whose unofficial anthem is in the traditional joropo genre. It has borrowed versions of cumbia, porro, and vallenato from its western neighbor.
Joropo and cumbia both probably derived from this Spanish music and dance tradition. Like jota, but unlike traditional flamenco, this dance is usually accompanied by castanets.
Joropo exhibits a “reverse hemiola,” in which sections of 3/4 time alternate with sections in this time signature commonly used for jigs. Measures in this time signature are typically divided into two dotted quarter notes.
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or República Bolivariana de Venezuela]
fandango
6/8 &lt;Arts - Auditory&gt;
This photographer first came to prominence for her 1996 book <em>Down in the Garden</em>, which uses props like plastic buckets and flowerpots. For 10 points each:
Name this Australian photographer now based in New Zealand, who’s best-known for her whimsical costumed photos of infants.
In 2017, this publisher released a coffee-table book of Geddes’s work titled Small World. Like Prestel and Phaidon, this German publisher almost exclusively releases art books, including its series “Basic Art” and “SUMO.”
A 2014 entry in Taschen’s SUMO series features this woman’s nude photos of Keith Haring and Whoopi Goldberg. This woman’s 1980 photo of Yoko Ono and John Lennon was taken just before his assassination.
Anne Geddes
Taschen
Annie Liebovitz [or Anna-Lou Liebovitz] &lt;Arts - Visual&gt;
This June, the L.A. Philharmonic will be putting on the first production of this composer’s opera <em>Atlas</em> not to be directed by the composer herself. For 10 points each:
Name this American composer and singer known for her extensive use of experimental vocal techniques in pieces like Dolmen Music.
In a film by this duo, Monk’s “Walking Song” plays while Maude flings paint at a canvas from a harness. This duo helped re-commercialize American bluegrass with their film O Brother, Where Art Thou?
This man featured Monk’s “Road Song” on the soundtrack to his 1986 film True Stories. This man wore a huge, box-like suit as the centerpiece of the 1984 film Stop Making Sense.
Meredith Monk
Coen Brothers [or Joel and Ethan Coen] (The first film is The Big Lebowski.)
David Byrne &lt;Arts - Audiovisual, Other&gt;
After being blacklisted for violating this legal construct in Mexico, Danny Gardella filed a lawsuit to challenge it. For 10 points each:
Name this controversial legal construct, which allowed certain employers to retain rights to their employees when their contracts expired. In 1975, it was struck down in a ruling by Peter Seitz.
John Montgomery Ward created baseball’s first union after Albert Spalding instituted one of these rules preventing players from making more than $2,500. Major League Baseball currently has a luxury tax instead of one of these rules placing an upper limit on a team’s payroll.
Early baseball stars supplanted their income by touring the country playing exhibition games, a practice usually given this name. In 1922, Kenesaw Mountain Landis punished Babe Ruth for doing this by banning him from baseball for a month.
Major League Baseball’s reserve clause
salary caps [or wage caps]
barnstorming &lt;Mythology and Other&gt;
This label attracted controversy for its use of eccentric shoes like the mink-lined Birkenstock-style sandals in its Spring 2013 show. For 10 points each:
Name this brand that became known for minimal, restrained lines under creative director Phoebe Philo, who left in 2018.
Céline is now led by Philo’s polar opposite, i.e. this punk-inspired designer with Tunisian heritage. He was creative director at Dior Homme in the early 2000s and then led Yves Saint Laurent until 2016.
Both Dior and Céline, as well as Fendi and Marc Jacobs, are owned by this huge French luxury goods conglomerate. Its namesake fashion house is known for its oft-ripped-off, checkerboard-patterned “Speedy” bag.
Céline
Hedi Slimane
Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy [or LVMH] &lt;Modern World&gt;
Kara Walker used this technique to create colored backgrounds for silhouette works like <em>Darkytown Rebellion</em> and <em>Insurrection! (Our Tools Were Rudimentary, Yet We Pressed On)</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this technique also used to create large images on monuments and buildings by Polish artist Krzysztof Wodiczko [shish-toff voh-DITCH-koh]. This technology has been used to turn the Empire State Building into a huge digital photo frame.
Jenny Holzer’s many public projections often use text from this series of hers, in which messages like “Protect me from what I want” and “Abuse of power comes as no surprise” were displayed on LED signs and billboards.
The activist group Decolonize This Place made extensive projections onto this museum’s façade during 2019 protests of its board. In 2017, this museum controversially displayed Dana Schutz’s painting Open Casket.
projections [prompt on light or video]
Truisms
Whitney Museum &lt;Arts - Visual&gt;
An experiment using this concept in Finland enrolled 2000 people, and it is often posited as a way of overcoming the effects of automation. For 10 points each:
Name this type of program advocated by Andrew Yang’s “freedom dividend,” in which every citizen of a nation receives a certain amount of money every year.
This journalist and former Moneybox columnist for Slate wrote a defense of UBI in her book Give People Money. Vox editor Ezra Klein is married to this woman.
Hoynes and Rothstein published a 2019 paper about UBI while working for this organization, a leading center of inequality research that is probably most famous for marking the beginning and end of recessions.
UBI [or Universal Basic Income]
Annie M. Lowrey
NBER [or National Bureau of Economic Research] &lt;Modern World&gt;
Answer the following about the modern world, as observed by cultural critic Hanif Abdurraqib, for 10 points each.
Abdurraqib’s 2019 book Go Ahead in the Rain is a best-selling study of this musical group. This group's album People’s Instinctive Travels and the Paths of Rhythm was the first to earn a perfect five-mic rating from The Source.
Go Ahead in the Rain is part of the American Music Project, an effort edited by rock critic Jessica Harper and published through this university’s press. This is the only school in its state that has partial exemption to a house bill requiring public universities to admit any student graduating in the top 10% of their high school class.
Abdurraqib found the Echo Hotel poetry collective with Eve Ewing, who writes heavily on race relations in this city, including its 1919 Race Riot and the demise of public schools in its Bronzeville district.
A Tribe Called Quest
University of Texas at Austin [or UT-Austin]
Chicago &lt;Modern World&gt;
Starting in the mid-’50s, this singer began recording an eight-volume survey of the Great American Songbook for Verve, a label founded to promote her. For 10 points each:
Name this “First Lady of Jazz,” best-known for her scat singing on songs like “A-Tisket, A-Tasket.”
During the classic 1960 Ella in Berlin concert, Fitzgerald forgot the lyrics to this song, improvising with lines like “Ah, Louis Miller… oh… something about cash. / Yeah… Miller… he was spending that trash” and mentioning earlier jazz performers of this song, like Bobby Darin.
Ella in Berlin then ends with a version of this jazz standard, including references to Charlie Parker’s contrafact of this song, “Ornithology.” Les Paul and Mary Ford’s hit 1951 recording of this song is often cited as a key influence on early Rock and Roll.
Ella (Jane) Fitzgerald [prompt on just Ella]
“The Ballad of Mack the Knife” [or “Die Moritat von Mackie Messer”]
“How High the Moon” &lt;Auditory Arts&gt;
In 2018, the CEO of this company sent a letter titled “A Sense of Purpose” to a number of other CEOs, warning them that their companies must benefit “all of their stakeholders” and focus on “long-term growth.” For 10 points each:
Name this investment management company that uses a computerized system called “Aladdin” to handle its six trillion dollars in assets.
The Aladdin system was used to illustrate how technocrats create artificial worlds in this BBC filmmaker’s 2016 documentary HyperNormalisation. He examined the spread of Freudian ideas in society in 2002’s The Century of the Self.
After discussing Aladdin, HyperNormalisation moves to a segment on this businessman’s use of card counters at his Taj Mahal casino to recoup losses to the high-stakes gambler Akio Kashiwagi. In its coverage of the 2010s, the documentary later claims that the inability to fact-check this man’s statements “defeated journalism.”
BlackRock Inc. [accept BlackRock Solutions]
(Kevin) Adam Curtis
Donald J(ohn) Trump &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
This musician’s score for <em>The Good German</em> was rejected by the film’s director, his longtime collaborator Steven Soderbergh. For 10 points each:
Name this electronic composer who scored the Ocean’s Eleven trilogy, and whose own albums include This Film’s Crap Let’s Slash the Seats.
The track “Radio 7” on Holmes’ album Let’s Get Killed is a reworking of this piece of film music, whose composer Monty Norman based it on a tune from his musical adaptation of A House for Mr. Biswas. Most of its versions feature a horn fanfare followed by a surf guitar riff that plays as a blood-red filter rolls down the screen.
This other electronic musician produced a remix of the James Bond theme for Tomorrow Never Dies. Bessie Jones’s singing on the track “Honey” is one of the many Alan Lomax field recordings he sampled for his breakthrough album Play.
David Holmes
the James Bond theme [accept any answer that indicates the music from the James Bond films]
Moby [or Richard Melville Hall] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
This musician’s score for <em>The Good German</em> was rejected by the film’s director, his longtime collaborator Steven Soderbergh. For 10 points each:
Name this electronic composer who scored the Ocean’s Eleven trilogy, and whose own albums include This Film’s Crap Let’s Slash the Seats.
The track “Radio 7” on Holmes’ album Let’s Get Killed is a reworking of this piece of film music, whose composer Monty Norman based it on a tune from his musical adaptation of A House for Mr. Biswas. Most of its versions feature a horn fanfare followed by a surf guitar riff that plays as a blood-red filter rolls down the screen.
This other electronic musician produced a remix of the James Bond theme for Tomorrow Never Dies. Bessie Jones’s singing on the track “Honey” is one of the many Alan Lomax field recordings he sampled for his breakthrough album Play.
David Holmes
the James Bond theme [accept any answer that indicates the music from the James Bond films]
Moby [or Richard Melville Hall] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
A film from this country ends with a nearly minute-long shot of a man sitting next to his hat on a staircase, before panning and cutting to the large ship that’s taking his lover Anta away. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of a director who adapted Friedrich Dürrenmatt’s The Visit for the 1992 film Hyenas. That film develops themes from the earlier film Touki Bouki, which means The Journey of the Hyena.
That director, Djibril Diop Mambéty, is often contrasted with this slightly earlier Senegalese director, who wrote and directed Xala [kha-lah] and Black Girl.
The protagonist of Touki Bouki spends much of the movie on one of these personal vehicles with a cow skull on the front. The title character dies in an accident riding one of these vehicles at the beginning of Lawrence of Arabia.
Republic of Senegal [or République du Sénégal]
Ousmane Sembène [accept names in either order]
motorcycles [or motorbikes; prompt on just cycles or bikes; do not accept or prompt on “moped”] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
James Paul Gee notes how these things provide information “on demand” and “just in time” in a book titled for what they have to “teach us about learning and literacy.” For 10 points each:
Name these things. Gee argues that some of these things, like System Shock and Rise of Nations, operate on educational principles of scaffolding in order to develop a “cycle of expertise.”
In the book Reality is Broken, this author posited that alternative reality games have the potential to solve social problems such as obesity and depression. She probably wasn’t after NAQT’s heart when she published her video game I Love Bees.
The anthropologist Tom Boellstorff wrote a 2008 ethnography titled for “coming of age” in this online game, part of which analyzes how players value this game’s “Linden dollars.”
video games [accept computer games; accept What Video Games Have to Teach Us About Learning and Literacy; prompt on games]
Jane McGonigal
Second Life [or Coming of Age in Second Life] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
This author created a cough syrup-addicted character who subsists only on two-dimensional food as part of his “Flatlander” diet. For 10 points each:
Name this author who lived in Redmond and Silicon Valley to research that novel, Microserfs. This Canadian’s debut novel potentially coined, and definitely popularized, the term “Generation X.”
Coupland is also a visual artist, depicting a pixelated killer whale in his sculpture Digital Orga, which sits next to the convention center of this large Canadian city on the Pacific coast.
This novel by Coupland centers on a family from Vancouver that tries to travel to the Kennedy Space Center to see the space shuttle launch of one of its members, the astronaut Sarah Drummond.
Douglas Coupland
Vancouver
All Families Are Psychotic &lt;Other Academic&gt;
For a scene in which the protagonist and his friends are punished by the Headmaster for smoking, this film’s director had the actors actually caned onscreen. For 10 points each:
Name this 1969 film, in which the working-class teenager Billy tames the title bird. Its director insisted on using local, untrained boys from Yorkshire, which meant that he later had to overdub some of the thicker accents.
Ken Loach, the director of Kes, was deeply influenced by this movement in Italian cinema, which is exemplified by Vittorio de Sica’s use of non-professional actors in Bicycle Thieves.
Loach was also inspired by the on-site shooting and non-professional cast of this director’s film Loves of a Blonde. Later, this European director profiled the founder of Hustler in the biopic The People vs. Larry Flynt.
Kes
neorealism [or neorealismo]
Miloš Forman [or Jan Tomaš Forman] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
A film from this country ends with a nearly minute-long shot of a man sitting next to his hat on a staircase, before panning and cutting to the large ship that’s taking his lover Anta away. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of a director who adapted Friedrich Dürrenmatt’s The Visit for the 1992 film Hyenas. That film develops themes from the earlier film Touki Bouki, which means The Journey of the Hyena.
That director, Djibril Diop Mambéty, is often contrasted with this slightly earlier Senegalese director, who wrote and directed Xala [kha-lah] and Black Girl.
The protagonist of Touki Bouki spends much of the movie on one of these personal vehicles with a cow skull on the front. The title character dies in an accident riding one of these vehicles at the beginning of Lawrence of Arabia.
Republic of Senegal [or République du Sénégal]
Ousmane Sembène [accept names in either order]
motorcycles [or motorbikes; prompt on just cycles or bikes; do not accept or prompt on “moped”] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
Jean-Luc Godard and his then-wife Anna Karina make a cameo in this film as characters in a parody of silent films. For 10 points each:
Name this 1962 film that follows the title character in real time as she awaits the results of a biopsy.
Cléo from 5 to 7 was directed by this woman, who is known for nonlinear films like Vagabond and the autobiographical, fragmented documentary The Gleaners and I. She became the oldest person nominated for an Oscar after a nod for the 2017 documentary Faces Places.
Varda’s husband Jacques Demy was best-known for visually stunning films like The Umbrellas of Cherbourg and The Young Girls of Rochefort, which are both in this genre. Those films were both ripped off by a 2016 Damien Chazelle [shuh-ZELL] film in this genre.
Cléo from 5 to 7 [or Cléo de 5 à 7]
Agnès Varda
movie musicals (The Chazelle film is La La Land.) &lt;Other Arts&gt;
One person in this film defines a practice that emerged from “reading” as “I don’t tell you you’re ugly but I don’t have to tell you because you know you’re ugly.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1991 documentary that focuses on members of “Houses” such as Xtravaganza and LaBeija. It was responsible for popularizing the notion of “throwing shade.”
In its depictions of Harlem’s drag “balls,” Paris is Burning features several dances by this “godfather of voguing,” who earlier had appeared in the video for Malcolm McLaren’s song “Deep in Vogue.”
Many elements of 1990s Harlem “ball” culture are present in this singer and TV presenter’s namesake VH1 reality competition, or Drag Race.
Paris is Burning
Willi Ninja
RuPaul (Andre) Charles [accept either underlined portion; accept RuPaul’s Drag Race] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
Essays like “Obscene, Abject, Traumatic” that first appeared in this magazine were collected in the book <em>The Return of the Real</em> by its editor Hal Foster. For 10 points each:
Name this art magazine edited by Artforum alumna Rosalind Krauss, which was named for a film by Sergei Eisenstein. While working as an editor of this magazine, Douglas Crimp wrote a piece about artists like Cindy Sherman that gave rise to the monicker “Pictures Generation.”
Pictures Generation member Barbara Kruger is known for her use of white text on rectangles in black and this other color. This is the background color for the text in Your Body is a Battleground.
The landmark 2009 exhibition The Pictures Generation was, somewhat surprisingly, held at this New York art museum, instead of at the MoMA. This museum massively expanded its holdings, already the largest in the U.S., with a 2013 gift of Cubist art from Leonard Lauder.
October
red
Metropolitan Museum of Art &lt;Visual Arts&gt;
This musician collaborated with Pharoah Sanders on her 1970 solo album <em>Journey in Satchidananda</em>, which incorporates elements of Indian music on tracks like “Stopover Bombay.” For 10 points each:
Name this jazz harpist who included the song “Turiya &amp; Ramakrishna” on her other 1970 album, Ptah, the El Daoud.
Alice Coltrane’s first eight albums were recorded for this label, often called “the house Trane built.” Major early hits for this label included Oliver Nelson’s The Blues and Abstract Truth and John Coltrane’s A Love Supreme.
Another major early album for Impulse! was this man’s album Genius + Soul = Jazz, one of his many collaborations with a very young Quincy Jones. This blind pianist came to fame with songs like “I Got a Woman” and “What’d I Say.”
Alice Coltrane [or Turiyasangitananda; or Alice MacLeod; prompt on just Coltrane]
Impulse! Records
Ray Charles (Robinson) &lt;Auditory Arts&gt;
In one book, this scholar noted that the use of “high” and “low” as metaphors for musical pitch isn’t universal, since the Kaluli people of Papua New Guinea describe melodic intervals in terms of waterfalls. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnomusicologist who co-edited the book Senses of Place and coined the term “schizophonia” to describe the impact of recording. The second edition of his book Sound and Sentiment includes a long postscript recounting how the Kaluli disagreed with his characterizations of their culture.
In Sound and Sentiment, Feld describes how Kaluli aesthetics are shaped by the music of these animals, whose song was collected by Olivier Messiaen.
After a long hiatus in which he ran a world music record label, Feld returned with a monograph about jazz in this country. A Princeton music theorist and ethnomusicologist from this country has written about rhythm from the “perspective” of its Ewe people.
Steven Feld
birds
Republic of Ghana (The ethnomusicologist is Kofi Agawu.) &lt;Auditory Arts&gt;
This artist dressed herself in white and cut herself with rose thorns and razor blades in <em>Sentimental Action</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian-French body artist who lied down on a metal frame directly above fifteen lit candles in her piece The Conditioning.
This woman recreated Pane’s The Conditioning as part of her series Seven Easy Pieces. She sat silently at a table with MoMA patrons in 2010’s The Artist is Present.
Inspired by a poster for the original, Abramović held one of these objects while recreating Valie Export’s Action Pants: Genital Panic. Chris Burden filmed a friend using one of these weapons on him, and the 1903 film The Great Train Robbery ends with a bandit seeming to use one of these weapons on the audience.
Gina Pane
Marina Abramović
guns [accept more specific answers like machine guns, pistols, or rifles] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
In 2018, the CEO of this company sent a letter titled “A Sense of Purpose” to a number of other CEOs, warning them that their companies must benefit “all of their stakeholders” and focus on “long-term growth.” For 10 points each:
Name this investment management company that uses a computerized system called “Aladdin” to handle its six trillion dollars in assets.
The Aladdin system was used to illustrate how technocrats create artificial worlds in this BBC filmmaker’s 2016 documentary HyperNormalisation. He examined the spread of Freudian ideas in society in 2002’s The Century of the Self.
After discussing Aladdin, HyperNormalisation moves to a segment on this businessman’s use of card counters at his Taj Mahal casino to recoup losses to the high-stakes gambler Akio Kashiwagi. In its coverage of the 2010s, the documentary later claims that the inability to fact-check this man’s statements “defeated journalism.”
BlackRock Inc. [accept BlackRock Solutions]
(Kevin) Adam Curtis
Donald J(ohn) Trump &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
Jean-Luc Godard and his then-wife Anna Karina make a cameo in this film as characters in a parody of silent films. For 10 points each:
Name this 1962 film that follows the title character in real time as she awaits the results of a biopsy.
Cléo from 5 to 7 was directed by this woman, who is known for nonlinear films like Vagabond and the autobiographical, fragmented documentary The Gleaners and I. She became the oldest person nominated for an Oscar after a nod for the 2017 documentary Faces Places.
Varda’s husband Jacques Demy was best-known for visually stunning films like The Umbrellas of Cherbourg and The Young Girls of Rochefort, which are both in this genre. Those films were both ripped off by a 2016 Damien Chazelle [shuh-ZELL] film in this genre.
Cléo from 5 to 7 [or Cléo de 5 à 7]
Agnès Varda
movie musicals (The Chazelle film is La La Land.) &lt;Other Arts&gt;
One person in this film defines a practice that emerged from “reading” as “I don’t tell you you’re ugly but I don’t have to tell you because you know you’re ugly.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1991 documentary that focuses on members of “Houses” such as Xtravaganza and LaBeija. It was responsible for popularizing the notion of “throwing shade.”
In its depictions of Harlem’s drag “balls,” Paris is Burning features several dances by this “godfather of voguing,” who earlier had appeared in the video for Malcolm McLaren’s song “Deep in Vogue.”
Many elements of 1990s Harlem “ball” culture are present in this singer and TV presenter’s namesake VH1 reality competition, or Drag Race.
Paris is Burning
Willi Ninja
RuPaul (Andre) Charles [accept either underlined portion; accept RuPaul’s Drag Race] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
Essays like “Obscene, Abject, Traumatic” that first appeared in this magazine were collected in the book <em>The Return of the Real</em> by its editor Hal Foster. For 10 points each:
Name this art magazine edited by Artforum alumna Rosalind Krauss, which was named for a film by Sergei Eisenstein. While working as an editor of this magazine, Douglas Crimp wrote a piece about artists like Cindy Sherman that gave rise to the monicker “Pictures Generation.”
Pictures Generation member Barbara Kruger is known for her use of white text on rectangles in black and this other color. This is the background color for the text in Your Body is a Battleground.
The landmark 2009 exhibition The Pictures Generation was, somewhat surprisingly, held at this New York art museum, instead of at the MoMA. This museum massively expanded its holdings, already the largest in the U.S., with a 2013 gift of Cubist art from Leonard Lauder.
October
red
Metropolitan Museum of Art &lt;Visual Arts&gt;
This musician collaborated with Pharoah Sanders on her 1970 solo album <em>Journey in Satchidananda</em>, which incorporates elements of Indian music on tracks like “Stopover Bombay.” For 10 points each:
Name this jazz harpist who included the song “Turiya &amp; Ramakrishna” on her other 1970 album, Ptah, the El Daoud.
Alice Coltrane’s first eight albums were recorded for this label, often called “the house Trane built.” Major early hits for this label included Oliver Nelson’s The Blues and Abstract Truth and John Coltrane’s A Love Supreme.
Another major early album for Impulse! was this man’s album Genius + Soul = Jazz, one of his many collaborations with a very young Quincy Jones. This blind pianist came to fame with songs like “I Got a Woman” and “What’d I Say.”
Alice Coltrane [or Turiyasangitananda; or Alice MacLeod; prompt on just Coltrane]
Impulse! Records
Ray Charles (Robinson) &lt;Auditory Arts&gt;
In one book, this scholar noted that the use of “high” and “low” as metaphors for musical pitch isn’t universal, since the Kaluli people of Papua New Guinea describe melodic intervals in terms of waterfalls. For 10 points each:
Name this ethnomusicologist who co-edited the book Senses of Place and coined the term “schizophonia” to describe the impact of recording. The second edition of his book Sound and Sentiment includes a long postscript recounting how the Kaluli disagreed with his characterizations of their culture.
In Sound and Sentiment, Feld describes how Kaluli aesthetics are shaped by the music of these animals, whose song was collected by Olivier Messiaen.
After a long hiatus in which he ran a world music record label, Feld returned with a monograph about jazz in this country. A Princeton music theorist and ethnomusicologist from this country has written about rhythm from the “perspective” of its Ewe people.
Steven Feld
birds
Republic of Ghana (The ethnomusicologist is Kofi Agawu.) &lt;Auditory Arts&gt;
This artist dressed herself in white and cut herself with rose thorns and razor blades in <em>Sentimental Action</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian-French body artist who lied down on a metal frame directly above fifteen lit candles in her piece The Conditioning.
This woman recreated Pane’s The Conditioning as part of her series Seven Easy Pieces. She sat silently at a table with MoMA patrons in 2010’s The Artist is Present.
Inspired by a poster for the original, Abramović held one of these objects while recreating Valie Export’s Action Pants: Genital Panic. Chris Burden filmed a friend using one of these weapons on him, and the 1903 film The Great Train Robbery ends with a bandit seeming to use one of these weapons on the audience.
Gina Pane
Marina Abramović
guns [accept more specific answers like machine guns, pistols, or rifles] &lt;Other Fine Arts&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> Country singer Mac Davis’s first film role was in the 1979 adaptation of this novel, which, unlike the movie, ends with the protagonist’s love interest Charlotte Caulder having been murdered. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the drug-fueled late-’60s NFL, in which the protagonist, wide receiver Phil Elliott, is a thinly veiled version of author Peter Gent.
The North Dallas Bulls’ popular quarterback Seth Maxwell is often taken to represent this Cowboys quarterback, nicknamed “Dandy,” who after his career joined Frank Gifford and Howard Cosell on the Monday Night Football broadcasting team.
Meredith’s Cowboys lost to the Packers on a last-second quarterback sneak by Bart Starr in this game, which is most commonly known by a name referring to both the game-time temperature of -15 degrees and to the slippery field conditions.
North Dallas Forty
Don Meredith [or Joseph Don Meredith]
the Ice Bowl [or the 1967 NFL Championship game; do not accept or prompt on any answers involving the phrases “Super Bowl” or “NFC”] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> Answer the following related to Green Bay Packers in movies, for 10 points each.
In this 2015 movie, Clay Matthews, T. J. Lang, Josh Sitton, Don Barclay, and David Bakhtiari sing “Bootylicious” in an a capella competition.
This former quarterback is referred to as “Pacman” before being revealed as Mary’s ex-boyfriend in There’s Something about Mary.
This 2017 fan-made film features a cameo by John Kuhn and is about two Packers fans who buy a house in Lambeau Field’s parking lot.
Pitch Perfect 2 [do not prompt on “Pitch Perfect”]
Brett Favre [or Brett Lorenzo Favre]
The 60 Yard Line &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> This artist’s 2015 album <em>Tôt ou Tard</em>, which was produced by her partner David Donatien, helped her win her second Female Artist of the Year award at Les Victoires de la Musique. For 10 points each:
Name this Israeli-French singer who debuted in 2001 with her album In a Man’s Womb.
Naïm’s biggest U.S. hit was this song sung from the perspective of an entity that “came to this strange world hoping I could learn a bit ’bout how to give and take.” This song became popular after it was featured in a Macbook commercial.
Singles from Naïm’s self-titled 2007 album included “New Soul” and a cover of this Britney Spears song, whose addressee’s lips are a “taste of a poison paradise.”
Yael Naïm
“New Soul”
“Toxic” &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> In a 2018 match, this wrestler seemed to be outnumbered two to one before Nikki Bella surprisingly eliminated Brie Bella. For 10 points each:
Name this wrestler who went on to eliminate Nikki, thus winning the WWE’s first Women’s Royal Rumble.
After defeating Nikki to earn a shot at a world championship, Asuka refused to shake hands with this wrestler, who made a surprising appearance at the Royal Rumble.
Asuka lost her world championship match to Charlotte Flair at the 34th iteration of this WWE flagship event, which was held in New Orleans.
Asuka [or Kanako Urai; or Urai Kanako; accept Kana]
Ronda Rousey [or Ronda Jean Rousey]
WrestleMania 34 &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> Several scenes in this movie are set in the noir-ish world of a book attributed to “Topsy Kretts” about the saxophone-playing detective Fingerling, who encounters a woman called the “Suicide Blonde.” For 10 points each:
Name this 2007 movie whose protagonist, animal control officer Walter Sparrow, becomes obsessed with the book and begins developing the same peculiar apophenia as Fingerling.
The Number 23 reunited star Jim Carrey with this director; the two had previously worked together on Batman Forever. This director of St. Elmo’s Fire also directed the widely panned Batman and Robin.
Joaquin Phoenix plays an adult video store employee named Max California in this 1999 Schumacher film, which stars Nicolas Cage as a private investigator pulled into the world of snuff films.
The Number 23
Joel Schumacher
8mm &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> Some encounters in this game can result in the player being sent back to the concrete-lined room the protagonist first wakes up in, in which a bloody paper bag provides the advice, “The gap in the door . . . it’s a separate reality. The only me is me. Are you sure the only you is you?” For 10 points each:
Name this short horror game set primarily in an endlessly looping hallway in a house haunted by an apparition named Lisa. It was controversially removed from the PlayStation Store in 2015.
P.T., a collaboration between Hideo Kojima and Guillermo del Toro, was intended to serve as a “playable teaser” for a now cancelled entry in this Konami series. In its first entry, Harry Mason searches the title town for his missing daughter.
After essentially getting kicked out of Konami, Kojima reunited with del Toro to work on this upcoming game. Early trailers for this game led fans to jokingly refer to it as “Norman Reedus and the Funky Fetus.”
P.T.
Silent Hill [accept Silent Hills]
Death Stranding &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> In one ad from this series, entitled “The Thing,” two boys approach an oven and ask, “What is it?” and in another ad from this series, a dad’s risible attempts to prepare food cause a commentator to say, “Can’t wait for the musical!” For 10 points each:
Name this ad series, all of whose entries closed with a besuited actor sitting in a wide leather chair and passionately exhorting, “Eat FRESH!”
This actor starred in the Subway Dinner Theatre ads. He voiced the protagonist of the animated show The Critic, and if a quizbowl movie ever happened, he would definitely play Dan Passner.
An entry in the Subway Dinner Theatre series in which Lovitz ostentatiously rings a bell before a woman is shown worrying that five o’clock is approaching has a title parodying the title of this TV episode. At the end of this episode, the William Shatner–portrayed Bob Wilson is dragged away in a straitjacket after stealing and shooting a police officer’s handgun.
Subway Dinner Theatre [prompt on partial or descriptive answers]
Jon Lovitz [or Jonathan M. Lovitz]
“Nightmare at 20,000 Feet” (from The Twilight Zone) &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> This was the first musical by a rock star who had previously written a single quatrain of “Half of the People,” which appeared in Leonard Bernstein’s musical <em>MASS</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1998 musical that starred Marc Anthony and Ruben Blades as Salvador Agron, a man convicted of a double homicide in New York in 1959 who became a poet on death row.
The soundtrack to the musical, Songs from the Capeman, was the lowest-charting album in the career of this American singer. He wrote most of the tracks to the film The Graduate and performed them with Art Garfunkel.
Simon cowrote The Capeman with this man. He created a maid named Helen, who sings the Beatles’ “Yesterday” while walking down the beach, in a long poem based on the Odyssey.
The Capeman
Paul Simon [or Paul Frederic Simon]
Derek Walcott [or Sir Derek Alton Walcott] (Helen appears in Omeros.) &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> A February 2015 <em>Deadspin</em> post titled “This Is the Worst Shot I’ve Ever Seen” shows this Knicks guard missing a wild runner that lands in the third row after clearing the shot clock by about 10 feet. For 10 points each:
Name this player who scored 25 points in the bronze medal game of the 2012 Olympics, which led his country in a surprising win over Argentina.
Shved plays for this country internationally. Its other internationals include Timofey Mozgov, Sergey Karasev, and Andrei Kirilenko.
Shved’s coach at the 2012 Olympics was this man, who was coaching the Cavaliers when Shved was traded in the deal that sent Kevin Love to the Cavs. This four-time Israeli Super League Coach of the Year was fired by the Cavs in 2016 and now coaches in Turkey.
Alexey Shved [or Alexey Viktorovich Shved]
Russia [or Russian Federation or Rossija or Rossiyskaya Federatsiya]
David Blatt [or David Michael Blatt] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> Beginning in 2010, Larry Granillo has run a triply alliterative “tracker” of this statistic, whose “all-time quickest” leaderboard is dominated by Adam Rosales. For 10 points each:
Name this useless baseball statistic. That “tracker” has determined that David Ortiz accounts for over 55% of instances when a player has registered 29 seconds or more in this statistic since 2010.
After Ortiz, the second player to have a 30+ second tater trot in 2016 was this tubby 43-year-old Mets pitcher; he achieved the feat en route to becoming the oldest player ever to hit his first career home run.
In October 2016, this Twins center fielder and former Baseball America number-one-overall prospect rounded the bases in 13.95 seconds en route to setting the record for the fastest official inside-the-park home run in Tater Trot Tracker’s history.
home run trot time [accept Tater Trot (Tracker) or any answer indicating time it takes to circle the bases after hitting a home run]
Bartolo Colón
Byron Buxton [or Byron Keiron Buxton] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> Answer the following about Catholic school girls, for 10 points each:
The video for this funk rock band’s song “Catholic School Girls Rule,” which appeared on their 1985 album Freaky Styley, was apparently played only on Playboy TV, in part because of a scene featuring a crucified Anthony Kiedis.
The singer of this 1977 song is evidently trying very hard to fuck a Catholic school girl, requesting that “Virginia” not “let me wait” and lamenting how “you Catholic girls start much too late.”
Members of this Canadian post-hardcore band regularly described their sound as “the sound of two Catholic high school girls in mid knife fight,” a concept that inspired their 2002 song “A Dagger through the Heart of St. Angeles.”
Red Hot Chili Peppers [or RHCP]
“Only the Good Die Young” (by Billy Joel)
Alexisonfire (“Alexis on fire”) &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> Gabe Soria compiled a list of every song mentioned in the “Locas” storyline of this comic, including making the “judgment call” that a beat rendered “THUMP CLAP THUMP CLAP” had to be a song by Zapp. For 10 points each:
Name this alternative comic whose “Locas” storyline focused on the relationship between Maggie and Hopey. It was written by the Hernandez brothers and is set in the punk scene of 1980s Los Angeles.
The comic inspired the name of the band Love and Rockets, which was founded by former members of this band. They recorded “Bela Lugosi’s Dead” and were named for a Weimar Republic design school founded by Walter Gropius.
A character named Eulalio who dies by gunshot in the Locas storyline is the namesake of this indie rock band from Massachusetts. This Sadie Dupuis–fronted band has released the albums Major Arcana and Foil Deer.
Love &amp; Rockets
Bauhaus [accept Bauhaus 1919]
Speedy Ortiz &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> Popular scenarios using this game mode included “cat and mouse” and various tower defense–like games, one of which was modeled on <em>Starship Troopers</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this game mode on Battle.net that allowed special gameplay functionalities and pre-placed units to execute particular scenarios, such as simulations of the Civil War in Virginia and Missouri.
“Use map settings” was a popular mode of online play for this Blizzard game and its 1998 Brood War expansion.
Battle.net also allowed Brood War games in this ranked mode, in which players accrued official points and moved up and down the namesake ranking structure.
use map settings [or UMS]
StarCraft: Brood War
ladder mode [accept any answer mentioning ladders] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> After 9/11, this coach sparked controversy by claiming that he wasn’t “planning on having Arabs” on his team’s trip to a game against Clemson, so he thought the “threat of [the] plane being hijacked [was] pretty remote.” For 10 points each:
Name this current ESPN college football analyst who coached the UVa football team from 2001 to 2009.
Groh’s lone season as an NFL head coach was in 2000, when he led this AFC team, where his successors have included Herm Edwards, Eric Mangini, Rex Ryan, and, most recently, Todd Bowles.
Groh is from the coaching tree of this former Jets coach. While serving as the linebackers coach under this man, Groh coached Lawrence Taylor and won Super Bowl XXV (“twenty-five”) in 1990.
Al Groh [or Albert Michael Groh II]
New York Jets [prompt on “New York”]
Bill Parcells [or Duane Charles Parcells] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> The director of this film, John Woo, teamed up with its star for <em>Face/Off</em>, which appeared a year later. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1996 film in which Major Vick Deakins sets in motion a plot to blackmail the U.S. government during a training exercise with a character played by Christian Slater.
Broken Arrow features Air Force pilots played by Slater and this actor, who has starred in Swordfish and Battlefield Earth.
This star of Firestorm played Master Sergeant Kelly in Broken Arrow, whose death by getting kicked out of a moving train and off a bridge features a stock scream that sounds like the sound of a TIE fighter and is usually identified by this actor’s name.
Broken Arrow
John Travolta [or John Joseph Travolta]
Howie Long [or Howard Matthew Moses Long] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> This programming block lasted from 1997 to 2011, when it was replaced by a full-time channel with a similar target audience. For 10 points each:
Name this programming block that included such TV shows as Bear in the Big Blue House and PB&amp;J Otter.
This Playhouse Disney show centers on a family of geometrically shaped robots that lives in a house shaped like a teapot.
The Playhouse Disney show Stanley featured the theme song “My Man Stanley,” which was sung by this group known for playing junkanoo music and better known for a hit 2000 song.
Playhouse Disney
Rolie Polie Olie
Baha Men &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> This man’s wife, Lisa Joy, was a writer on the shows <em>Burn Notice</em> and <em>Pushing Daisies</em> and collaborates with him on an HBO show. For 10 points each:
Name this cocreator of the TV series Westworld.
Jonathan Nolan’s cinematic collaborations with his brother Christopher began with this film, which was based on Jonathan’s concept. It centers on a man played by Guy Pearce who has amnesia and tattoos his body with clues about who killed his wife.
Jonathan Nolan also created this CBS crime drama, which starred Jim Caviezel as a former CIA agent who punches out bad guys identified by an AI that uses a surveillance algorithm.
Jonathan Nolan [or Jonah Nolan]
Memento
Person of Interest &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> The marketing firm LatinWorks spearheaded a campaign to include these things, which resulted in several supportive tweets from Adrián González. For 10 points each:
Name these things whose use on uniforms was advocated in an MLB campaign named in part for the Spanish words “pon le” (pohn lay), which mean “put it on.”
This wide receiver of Haitian heritage has had a cedilla on his jersey since his rookie year with the Colts.
Daniel Brière became the first NHL player to have an accent grave on his jersey when he was signed by this Quebecois team in 2013.
accents [or accent marks; or diacritics; or diacritical marks; or acentos; accept acute accents or pon le acento]
Pierre Garçon [or Pierre Andre Garçon]
Montreal Canadiens [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> This band from Cork was the first unsigned group to top the mp3.com charts, which they did with their song “Punchdrunk.” For 10 points each:
Name this Irish band that sang the lyrics “how you shine, how you rise above the sky” in their hit 2002 song “Sparkle.”
Rubyhorse found chart success after moving from Ireland to this American city, which titles a 2005 song by Augustana with lyrics saying, “I think going to” this city to “start it over where no one knows my name.” The Dropkick Murphys sang about “shipping up to” this city.
Rubyhorse’s “Punchdrunk” features one of the last guest performances by this guitarist, whose album Brainwashed was released posthumously in 2002. His last charting hit, 2003’s “Any Road,” was written during the recording of his 1987 album, Cloud Nine.
Rubyhorse
Boston [accept “Boston” or “I’m Shipping Up to Boston”]
George Harrison &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> This baseball card set was the first with foil-wrapped packs, a high-gloss card finish, pictures on both sides, and a hologram stamp. For 10 points each:
Name this set, the first produced by its company, that drove the baseball card market’s growth to a billion-dollar industry by the early 1990s.
Card #1 of the 1989 Upper Deck set was the iconic rookie card of this center fielder, who played on the Seattle Mariners with his father in 1990 and 1991.
Card #666 in the 1989 Upper Deck set was an image of this event from the preceding year’s World Series, which inspired Jack Buck’s call “I don’t believe what I just saw.”
1989 Upper Deck [accept answers containing 1989 or ’89 and Upper Deck Company LLC; prompt on “Upper Deck”]
Ken Griffey Jr. [or George Kenneth Griffey Jr.; prompt on “Junior”]
Kirk Gibson’s home run off of Dennis Eckersley [accept answers mentioning Kirk Harold Gibson and home run or homer or other synonyms; prompt on more general answers] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> On an episode of <em>Family Guy</em>, Peter watches an episode in which this character asks for a suppository, only to later reveal that she wasn’t feeling sick and was just pranking a boy. For 10 points each:
Name this character that was originally created for a short story by Eric Knight and later was the focus of eleven movies, a weekly radio program, and a TV show that ran for 19 seasons.
On the fourth season of the TV show Lassie, this boy, played by Jon Provost, was introduced to the show and becomes the primary caretaker for Lassie after Jeff leaves the farm. Although it never actually happened, a common joke involves this character falling down a well.
This company sponsored Lassie for its entire television run and often had its products placed in the background. This company’s requirement that it have the first ad in a publication, which had to be a full-page ad on the right-hand side, led to that placement being termed this company’s namesake position.
Lassie
Timmy Martin [prompt on “Martin”]
Campbell’s Soup Company [or Campbell Soup Company] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> In a song by this band, lead singer Nathan Willett claims, “You wrung me out too, too, too many times.” For 10 points each:
Name this band that released that song, “Hang Me Up to Dry,” in 2007 and more recently released “First,” a song that includes the lyrics “Flying like a cannonball, falling to the earth, heavy as a feather when you hit the dirt.”
The title of the fourth album by Cold War Kids, Dear Miss Lonelyhearts, was inspired by this author’s 1933 novel Miss Lonelyhearts.
Cold War Kids collaborated with this musician on the song “So Tied Up” in 2017. This Scottish singer first gained notice with her songs “Wild Horses” and “River.”
Cold War Kids
Nathanael West [or Nathan Weinstein]
Bishop Briggs [or Bishop; or Sarah Grace McLaughlin] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> This game got a 2005 sequel in which its protagonist has to protect the flying whale–based city of Antheum from Gandrake Enterprises and has even more absurdly anime-ish hair. For 10 points each:
Name this 1998 Playstation action RPG about a swordsman tasked with acquiring the sword Lumina to save the Allucaneet Kingdom from the invading Thirstquencher Empire.
The mid-2000s was apparently the heyday of PS2 games about midriff-baring male Japanese swordsmen, as 2004 saw the release of a game set in “20XX” (twenty x x) that was inspired by this Akira Kurosawa film about a group of ronin.
French cartoonist Moebius, who contributed character designs to Seven Samurai 20XX, was also a major artistic influence on this Sega series, which includes rail shooters subtitled “II Zwei” (“two tzvye”) and “Orta” and a traditional RPG subtitled “Saga.”
Brave Fencer Musashi (The sequel is Musashi: Samurai Legend.)
Seven Samurai [accept Seven Samurai 20XX or Shichinin no Samurai]
Panzer Dragoon [accept Panzer Dragoon II Zwei or Panzer Dragoon Orta or Panzer Dragoon Saga] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> John Ritter’s final live-action role was in this film, whose title character exasperatedly asks, “What the fuck is that?” when a child claims to want a “Fraggle-stick car” and refuses to elaborate on what that might be. For 10 points each:
Name this 2003 film starring Billy Bob Thornton as the alcoholic Willie T. Soke, who runs a yearly scam with his dwarf assistant that allows them to rob shopping malls around the holidays.
In this 2001 film, Thora Birch plays Enid, who develops sympathy for an older man played by Steve Buscemi after she and her Scarlett Johansson–portrayed friend, Rebecca, set him up on a fake date.
Bad Santa and Ghost World were both directed by this man, who won the Sundance Grand Jury Prize for his 1994 documentary, Crumb.
Bad Santa
Ghost World
Terry Zwigoff &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> After this character is caught trying to shit in a former colleague’s office, the two men wrestle, and after pinning his opponent, this man says “I killed 17 men in Okinawa.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who became president of his firm after it merged with the British firm of Putnam, Putnam, and Lowell and moved to Grey Global after he made a failed power play at the end of season 3 in the show on which he appeared.
Phillips was briefly the head of Sterling Cooper on this AMC show starring Jon Hamm as Don Draper.
Phillips attempts to get Sterling Cooper to dump its client Mohawk, a business in this industry, to pursue a bigger company in this industry, despite the fact that the bigger company was just involved in an incident that killed Pete Campbell’s father.
Duck Phillips [or Herman Phillips; accept any underlined portion]
Mad Men
airline industry [accept Mohawk Airlines or American Airlines or any answer indicating air travel or airplanes] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> The target of this tweet called it a “disgusting response” and said that it represented a “sad lesson” that “will teach me and others not to be nice anymore.” For 10 points each:
Give these three words, formulated by Barry Petchesky, that constituted a reply to Donald Trump’s tweet of “Congratulations to Tom Scocca and Timothy Burke.”
The tweets were exchanged after Deadspin reported that Lennay Kekua, the supposed girlfriend of this linebacker and Heisman Trophy finalist, did not exist.
Te’o played football at this university, whose teams are known as the Fighting Irish.
“go fuck yourself”
Manti Te’o [or Manti Malietau Louis Te’o]
University of Notre Dame [or University of Notre Dame du Lac] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> This department store was founded in the early planned community of San Lorenzo, California, in the late 1940s. For 10 points each:
Name this mall anchor store that was bought by what is now Target Corporation in 1978 and, for most of the late 1990s, included the word “California” in its name.
When Mervyn’s rebranded as Mervyn’s California, it released an ad campaign featuring this quarterback, who was succeeded by Steve Young after leading the 49ers to four Super Bowls.
Montana later appeared in a series of ads for this brand’s “Shape-ups” shoes. This manufacturer paid tens of millions of dollars to settle false advertising suits because there was no evidence that Shape-ups actually improved posture or muscle tone, as Montana claimed.
Mervyn’s [or Mervyn’s California]
Joe Montana [or Joseph Clifford Montana Jr.]
Skechers &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> One of the three people profiled in this documentary is Lisa Ling, who has since started a campaign to free her former colleague, Reality Winner. For 10 points each:
Name this 2016 Sonia Kennebeck documentary, which follows three former participants in the U.S. drone warfare program.
National Bird was coproduced by Errol Morris and this director, whose own documentaries include a profile of modern choreographer Pina Bausch titled Pina and a film about Cuban music titled Buena Vista Social Club.
Many of the people who worked on National Bird also worked on Wenders’s The Salt of the Earth, a documentary about Sebastião Salgado, a Brazilian man who worked in this artistic medium. The 2013 documentary Finding Vivian Maier chronicled the life of a nanny whose work in this medium on the streets of Chicago was not known until boxes of it were discovered after her death.
National Bird
Wim Wenders [or Ernst Wilhelm Wenders]
photography [accept nature photography or street photography or any answer mentioning taking photographs or photos; prompt on answers mentioning “pictures”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> In Europe and Asia, but not North America, this game was followed a year later by a game called “Concept.” For 10 points each:
Name this popular video game, released in 2001, that reorganized its franchise’s exhaustive simulation mode around a series of car shops arranged by country.
Gran Turismo 3 was one of the best-selling games in the first years of this console that came out in 2000.
This man penned the inspired lines, “Which one of these cars you gonna use? I might use the Celica, the Mazda, Nissan, or Toyota. I heard they got that new PT Cruiser on there too,” for a track called his namesake “Turismo 3” for the game’s soundtrack. Call of Duty: Ghosts released a DLC multiplayer commentary track in which this man says things like “drop some science on those bitches.”
Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec [prompt on “GT3”]
Sony Playstation 2 [or PS2; do not accept or prompt on “PlayStation”]
Snoop Dogg [or Snoop Doggy Dogg; or Calvin Cordozar Broadus Jr.; accept any underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> After his team’s starting center was declared out for the season, this man helped lead that team to the 1972 NBA Finals as the shortest and best distance-shooting center in the league. For 10 points each:
Name this basketball Hall of Famer who retired in 1974 and later became a memorization expert known as “Mr. Memory” for his ability to memorize dozens of pages of the phone book.
This center’s injury opened the door for Lucas to start in the 1971–72 season. He won Finals MVP twice, the first time in 1970, when he returned from a torn thigh muscle in game seven to score two baskets and inspire his team to victory in what became known as his “game.”
Reed and Lucas were teammates with Walt Frazier on this Eastern Conference team, which plays in Madison Square Garden.
Jerry Lucas [or Jerry Ray Lucas]
Willis Reed [or Willis Reed Jr.; accept Willis Reed game]
New York Knicks [or New York Knickerbockers; accept N.Y. Knicks or Knickerbockers; prompt on “New York” or “N.Y.”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> A number of the music videos for this group start with member Robert Ontenient saying in Spanish, “Me llamo Roberto,” including for its song “Boogie,” in which Kevin Abstract claims it’s the “best boy band since One Direction.” For 10 points each:
Name this collaborative group of vocalists, producers, photographers, and other artists that formed in 2015 in San Marcos, Texas.
Brockhampton has proclaimed itself the internet’s first boy band because its members first met on an online forum named for this rapper “to the.” This rapper released the album Yeezus in 2013.
Brockhampton gave this apt title to its first three albums, the first of which was released on June 9, 2017, and the last of which was released six months later on December 15.
Brockhampton
Kanye West [accept either; or Kanye Omari West; or KanyeToThe.com]
Saturation [or Saturation II; or Saturation III] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> Answer the following about TV shows in the <em>Breaking Bad</em> universe using abbreviations in episode titles, for 10 points each:
The finale of the second season of Breaking Bad was titled for this airport code, which represents Albuquerque’s “international sunport” and also serves as a nickname for Albuquerque itself.
The third episode of the third season of Breaking Bad has this title, which is an abbreviation of the three-word phrase Skyler says to Walt at the end of the episode as she takes a salad bowl to the dinner table.
The eighth episode of Better Call Saul uses the name of this 1970 act as its title. The scope of this act was broadened by the ruling in the Supreme Court case Sedima, S.P.R.L. vs. Imrex Co. in 1985.
ABQ
“I.F.T.”
RICO Act [or Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> Answer the following about special days in cinema, for 10 points each.
In Ferris Bueller’s Day Off, Ferris joins a parade in Chicago celebrating this holiday. This holiday takes place in September every year and honors a German Revolutionary War figure.
April 8 is the day this character shows up to Empire Records, where he sleeps with Gina and eventually is thrown out of the store.
In Captain Fantastic, the family of Ben Cash celebrates the birthday of this “living humanitarian who’s done so much to promote human rights and understanding” instead of Christmas, the birthday of a “magical fictitious elf.” Michel Gondry’s animated film Is the Man Who Is Tall Happy is about this MIT linguist.
Von Steuben Day
Rex Manning [accept either answer]
Noam Chomsky [or Avram Noam Chomsky] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> This player was traded to the Nationals in December 2007, after which the Nats hired a former police officer to travel with him and keep him out of trouble. For 10 points each:
Name this highly regarded outfield prospect whose career with the Rays and Nationals was derailed by numerous injuries and off-the-field incidents.
Dukes is one of 118 baseball players who have accomplished this auspicious feat. The first player for the Rays to do it was pitcher Esteban Yan in 2000, and both Aaron Judge and Tyler Austin did it on the same day in August 2016.
Dukes was taken in the third round of the 2002 MLB draft, two rounds behind the Rays’ number two overall pick, this player, who often patrolled center field while Dukes played right. This brother of MLB player Justin once went by a nickname that stands for “Bossman Junior” but more recently went by his given name, Melvin.
Elijah Dukes [or Elijah David Dukes Jr.]
home run in first career Major League at bat [accept any answer indicating hitting a homer in your first MLB at bat or plate appearance]
Melvin Upton Jr. [or B. J. Upton; or Melvin Emanuel Upton Jr.] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> After taking an interest in applications of military technology to recording techniques and sending a self-authored paper on missile defense to congressman Dana Rohrabacher, this musician became a prominent defense consultant. For 10 points each:
Name this mustachioed American guitarist who had a long career with the Doobie Brothers and later worked as a session musician after cofounding a band with Walter Becker and Donald Fagen. He is nicknamed “Skunk.”
Baxter was a founding member of this band, whose albums include Pretzel Logic and Katy Lied. Their hits include “Do It Again,” “Reelin’ in the Years,” and “Rikki Don’t Lose That Number.”
Baxter knew Rohrabacher through Baxter’s part-time employment with this organization. An Offspring song claims that members of this organization “beat whoever [they] see,” and Toddy Tee’s rap track “Batterram” is about a vehicle owned by it.
Jeff Baxter [or Jeffrey Allen Baxter; or Skunk Baxter]
Steely Dan
LAPD [or Los Angeles Police Department] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> Players of this game can use disenchanting to turn cards into Arcane Dust, which can then be used to craft different cards. For 10 points each:
Name this online collectible card game created by Blizzard that is loosely tied in to the Warcraft universe.
This class in Hearthstone is represented by the hero Malfurion Stormrage. Malfurion was the first night elf in this class in World of Warcraft, in which members of this class “harness the vast powers of nature to preserve balance and protect life.”
This Hearthstone minion’s Deathrattle ability allows players to take control of a random enemy minion. In 2017, she was moved to the Hall of Fame set.
Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft
druid
Sylvanas Windrunner &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> In one scene, a character played by J. K. Simmons attempts to cheer up his daughter, who’s annoyed by the many people who no-showed to her birthday party, by having a character say this question that she “used to run around the house saying . . . all the time.” For 10 points each:
Give this five-word question that was Henry Pollard’s catchphrase when he had a role in a popular beer commercial on the show Party Down.
This maligned Canadian band sang, “These five words in my head scream, ‘Are we having fun yet?’” in their biggest hit, “How You Remind Me.”
The phrase “are we having fun yet?” was popularized by this underground comics character, a muumuu-wearing “pinhead” created by Bill Griffith.
are we having fun yet?
Nickelback
Zippy the Pinhead &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> Answer the following about singers declaring, “I don’t,” in their song titles, for 10 points each.
Along with Zayn Malik, this singer provided “I Don’t Wanna Live Forever” for the soundtrack to Fifty Shades Darker in 2017. She also released the album Reputation in 2017, including the song “Look What You Made Me Do.”
This singer’s “IDGAF” details how she doesn’t need your love and doesn’t give a fuck. Her debut album from 2017 also included a song in which she claims, “I’ve got new rules, I count ’em.”
In 2015, this singer and producer released “idfc,” which helpfully explains that he doesn’t fucking care. In 2017, this man featured Gucci Mane on “do re mi,” the first single from his album Digital Druglord.
Taylor Swift [or Taylor Alison Swift]
Dua Lipa
blackbear &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> This figure “is responsible for a large percentage of abnormal incidents that occur in” a certain place, which makes him like “an alt-right Johnny Appleseed.” For 10 points each:
Identify this anonymous figure who, according to Darius, is in “fuckin’ cahoots” with a state government to prevent black people from registering to vote.
Darius tells Earn about Florida Man in “Alligator Man,” the first episode of the second season of this FX TV show created by Donald Glover.
“Alligator Man,” along with “Teddy Perkins” and five other season two episodes of Atlanta, was directed by this Japanese filmmaker. This man also directed the music video for Childish Gambino’s “This Is America.”
Florida Man
Atlanta
Hiro Murai &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> After a game on October 25, 1964, this player was sent a letter that stated, “Welcome to the club.” For 10 points each:
Name this player who was patted on the back by offensive lineman Bruce Bosley after recovering a Billy Kilmer fumble during a game against the San Francisco 49ers.
Jim Marshall performed this specific action with the fumble for 66 yards, resulting in a safety.
In the 1929 Rose Bowl, this California player recovered a fumble and ran the wrong way, which led to a safety and California’s eventual one-point loss to Georgia Tech.
Jim Marshall [or James Lawrence Marshall]
running the wrong way [accept answers that describe going the wrong direction]
Roy Riegels &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> In this character’s first appearance, he sympathizes with a kid who has outsized body parts but uses charts to illustrate that that kid’s only options are to put up with bullying or flush himself down the toilet. For 10 points each:
Name this parody character, played by Katrina Johnson, who often appeared in sketches involving Pizzaface and Earboy, in which he presented outlandish schemes, often premised on his having four billion dollars.
Pizzaface and Earboy often turned to Ross Perot for help on this Nickelodeon sketch comedy show, whose alumni include Kenan Thompson and Amanda Bynes.
On SNL, Perot was impersonated by this man. He also said, “Not gonna do it,” and pedaled a mini-submarine alongside Manuel Noriega in one his many sketches impersonating George H. W. Bush.
H. Ross Perot [accept either; or Henry Ross Perot; prompt on “Henry” or “H”]
All That
Dana Carvey [or Dana Thomas Carvey] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> These characters have difficulty pronouncing the last name of a character named Samir, with one of them eventually settling on “Naga . . . not gonna work here anymore, anyway.” For 10 points each:
Name these consultants, played by Paul Willson and John C. McGinley, who force a character named Michael Bolton to falsely profess his love for the music of the singer who shares his name.
The Bobs listen to Peter Gibbons’s confession that, “in a given week, I probably only do 15 minutes of real, actual work” in this 1999 Mike Judge satire of white-collar workplaces.
In Office Space, the character Tom Smykowski discusses the Pet Rock in the context of his claim that “you can make millions, never have to work again” by having a “really great idea,” such as his proposal for this “mat” that is evidently similar to Twister.
the two Bobs [accept Bob Slydell and Bob Porter]
Office Space
Jump to Conclusions mat &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> Since 2015, this band has offered a namesake camp that serves as a music festival and a way to interact with the band. For 10 points each:
Name this rock band that released the album America in 2018 and was started by the brothers Shannon and Jared Leto.
This Thirty Seconds to Mars song from America asks, “Do you believe that you can win this fight tonight?” A song of the same title released in 2017 was a collaboration between Eminem and Beyoncé.
The music video for the Thirty Seconds to Mars song “The Kill” is an homage to this film, with Jared Leto at one point seen typing out, “This is who I really am.”
Thirty Seconds to Mars
“Walk on Water”
The Shining &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> This player made his Major League debut in 2004, a year in which he stuck on the Tigers’ roster as a Rule 5 draft pick. For 10 points each:
Name this pudgy redhead who, while playing for the Tigers in 2006, became the first American League player to hit nine home runs in the first thirteen games of a season but fell off so quickly that he was optioned to Triple A later that year.
Shelton was sent to the minors after the Tigers traded for this longtime Reds first baseman, a solid contact hitter and three-time All Star who was nicknamed “The Mayor.”
Shelton was called up again in 2006 when the Tigers needed an emergency catcher because of an injury to this catcher, who was elected into the Hall of Fame on the first ballot in 2017 and is nicknamed “Pudge.”
Chris Shelton [or Christopher Bob Shelton]
Sean Casey [or Sean Thomas Casey]
Iván Rodríguez [or Iván Rodríguez Torres] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> This driver won three World Championships with manager Ron Dennis of the McLaren team before moving to Williams Renault, where several of his team members were prosecuted by Italian authorities after this man became the second-most-recent Formula One driver to die while racing. For 10 points each:
Name this Brazilian, considered one of the best Formula One drivers of all time, whose rivalry with Alain Prost and death in a crash at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix is chronicled in a 2010 found-footage documentary.
Senna won a record six times at the Grand Prix held in this European microstate, which forms the Triple Crown of Motorsport with the Indy 500 and the 24 Hours of Le Mans.
In the 1988, 1989, and 1990 Formula One seasons, the World Championship was decided between Senna and Prost at the penultimate Grand Prix, which was held in this country. The 1989 and 1990 events in this country were marked by controversial crashes between Senna and Prost that ended up deciding the championship.
Ayrton Senna [or Ayrton Senna da Silva; accept Senna]
Monaco [accept Monaco Grand Prix or Grand Prix de Monaco]
Japan [or Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku; accept Japanese Grand Prix or Nihon-guranpuri] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> This player won the 1993 Most Improved Player Award in his third season with his original team, the Denver Nuggets. For 10 points each:
Name this former NBA guard who refused to stand for the national anthem and called the American flag a “symbol of oppression” during the 1996 season.
In the 1993–94 season, Abdul-Rauf came very close to breaking the single-season record in this statistic, which was held at the time by Calvin Murphy. The single-season record in this statistic has since been broken by José Calderón.
During his time at LSU, Abdul-Rauf set the all-time freshman scoring record, but the all-time and LSU scoring records for sophomores, juniors, and seniors are all held by this guard, who was known as “Pistol Pete.”
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf [accept Chris Wayne Jackson]
free throw percentage [or FT percentage; do not accept or prompt on “free throws”]
Pete Maravich [or Peter Press Maravich] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> This actress’s big break came when she played a Clark Gable fan who sings the song “You Made Me Love You (I Didn’t Want to Do It)” in the film <em>Broadway Melody of 1938</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this actress who was the mother of both Lorna Luft and Liza Minnelli and who played Dorothy Gale in The Wizard of Oz.
Garland sings both “The Trolley Song” and “Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas” in this 1944 musical, which is set in the year leading up to the 1904 World’s Fair.
Garland was nominated for a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role as Irene Hoffmann in this 1961 Stanley Kramer film, in which Maximilian Schell plays a defense attorney at a trial overseen by Spencer Tracy’s Dan Haywood.
Judy Garland [or Frances Ethel Gumm]
Meet Me in St. Louis
Judgment at Nuremberg &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> Matt Daniels’s data project to reveal the largest vocabularies in hip-hop enraged “the Reddit hip-hop community” for initially excluding this artist, who was eventually included and topped the chart with nearly 7,400 unique words in his first 35,000 lyrics. For 10 points each:
Name this alternative hip-hop artist from Portland whose tracks “Rings” and “Blood Sandwich” appear on his 2016 album, The Impossible Kid.
Aesop Rock is not to be confused with a similarly named rapper named Rocky, whose moniker includes this term. Rocky is a member of a Harlem “Mob” named for this term that also includes artists called “Ferg” and “Twelvyy.”
Aesop Rock and ASAP Rocky met at Rock the Bells in 2015 at the behest of an albino Minneapolis rapper known as a “brother” of this name. Other rappers who go by this first name include a member of A Tribe Called Quest whose other names are “Shaheed Muhammad.”
Aesop Rock [or Ian Matthias Bavitz]
ASAP [or A$AP; accept ASAP Rocky or ASAP Mob or A$AP Rocky or A$AP Mob]
Ali [accept Brother Ali or Ali Douglas Newman or Ali Shaheed Muhammad] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> Earth is plagued by storm clouds that drop zombie-like “husks” in the less popular of this game’s two primary modes. For 10 points each:
Name this 2018 co-op sandbox survival game developed by People Can Fly, which includes lootboxes shaped like llama piñatas. Its PvE (“P V E”) “Save the World” mode was quickly overshadowed by another mode that is now available as a standalone free-to-play game.
People Can Fly worked with Epic Games on the second and third entries in this series of cover shooters starring Marcus Fenix, whose Delta Squad fights the Locust Horde.
People Can Fly’s first major success came with this 2004 shooter remembered largely for such weapons as the Stake Gun, which can be used to nail enemies to walls, and the Electrodriver, which fires shurikens and lightning.
Fortnite
Gears of War
Painkiller &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> This game’s “Persuasion” minigame involves arbitrarily choosing between options labeled Admire, Boast, Joke, and Coerce based on whether selecting them contorts your interlocutor’s face to a happy or angry expression. For 10 points each:
Name this 2006 Bethesda RPG. Many of its annoying features, including the Persuasion and lockpicking minigames, were improved by its sequel, Skyrim.
Oblivion players were perhaps disproportionately livid at the idea of paying $2.50 for a DLC package that allowed them to acquire this specific equipment from the orc Snak gra-Bura. Its name has since become a byword for overpriced or unnecessary DLC.
An easy way to trigger the Dark Brotherhood recruitment event is to kill this irritating flame-haired Bosmer, who insists on following the player around after they become the Grand Champion at the Arena in the Imperial City.
The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion [accept either underlined portion; prompt on “The Elder Scrolls”]
horse armor [prompt on partial answer]
the Adoring Fan [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> The “Puts on Sunglasses” meme came from this TV show’s lead character. For 10 points each:
Name this CBS spinoff show that aired from 2002 to 2012 and included a 2010 episode in which a body was dropped from the sky after being killed in space.
David Caruso played this main character of CSI:Miami, who would often deliver a one-liner and put on his sunglasses before the scream from the Who’s “Won’t Get Fooled Again” played.
This TBS show spoofed the space corpse episode of CSI: Miami in an episode titled “This Sounds Unbelievable, but CSI: Miami Did It.” Rashida Jones plays this show’s title character, who started the series working with her new partner, Detective Jay Geils.
CSI: Miami [do not prompt on “CSI”]
Horatio Caine [accept either answer; or H]
Angie Tribeca &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> A March 2018 <em>Deadspin</em> article discusses the fact that this member of North Carolina’s Lumbee tribe is likely the most successful Native American basketball coach in history. For 10 points each:
Name this man who became the only Native American coach to reach the Final Four, doing so in 1999 during his 13-year tenure coaching at Oklahoma; despite a previous show-cause order for recruiting violations, he was hired to coach Houston in 2014.
Sampson left Oklahoma to coach at this historically successful Big Ten program, where he successfully recruited Eric Gordon and was forced out in 2008 amidst a recruiting scandal. Sampson’s predecessors at this school include Bobby Knight.
Sampson’s first Division I head coaching gig came at this school; from 2009 to 2014, this school was coached by a man who, despite not being the guy from the 2016 presidential debate, is named Ken Bone.
Kelvin Sampson [or Kelvin Dale Sampson]
Indiana University [prompt on “IU”]
Washington State University [or WSU] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> According to an almost certainly false local legend, a bum from Excelsior, Minnesota, was the “Mr. Jimmy” who says, “Dead,” after sharing a drink of this flavor with the singer. For 10 points each:
Give this two-word phrase that names the flavor of the soda that the singer gets at the “Chelsea drugstore” in the lyrics to “You Can’t Always Get What You Want.”
In the 2000s, Cherry Red Records rereleased the full discography of this short-lived Scottish band, whose biggest hit was a Bob Dylan knockoff that begins, “Well, I don’t know why I came here tonight.”
“Cherry Red” was a minor 1966 hit for this then pop band that later recorded the huge disco hit “Stayin’ Alive” for the Saturday Night Fever soundtrack.
cherry red
Stealers Wheel (The song is “Stuck in the Middle with You.”)
The Bee Gees &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> This event’s Golden Ball went to Sun Wen, who also shared the Golden Boot with Brazil’s Sissi. For 10 points each:
Name this event during which Jennifer Lopez shot the music video for “Let’s Get Loud.” The final game of this event was held in a sold-out Rose Bowl.
This U.S. player scored the final penalty kick at the 1999 Women’s World Cup, using her left foot on the advice of coach Tony DiCicco. A picture of her celebration was voted the second-most iconic cover of Sports Illustrated.
Another hero of the American victory was this midfielder, who converted the third penalty kick. More importantly, a Fan Yunjie header that got by Brianna Scurry during extra time was headed away by this player at the goal line to keep the game going.
1999 FIFA Women’s World Cup [prompt on partial answer]
Brandi Denise Chastain
Kristine Marie Lilly [or Kristine Marie Lilly Heavey] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> Yoni Goodman pioneered the unique animation style for this film, which was achieved using a combination of classical animation and Adobe Flash effects. For 10 points each:
Name this 2008 animated documentary directed by Ari Folman, detailing his own attempts to grapple with his experiences during the Sabra and Shatila massacres.
Waltz with Bashir is a film from this country, which has garnered the most nominations for the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film without winning.
Folman has collaborated with Ori Sivan, who cocreated this HBO show that was adapted from the Israeli show BeTipul and that starred Gabriel Byrne as Dr. Paul Weston, a psychologist who holds weekly sessions with several patients.
Waltz with Bashir
Israel [or State of Israel or Medinat Yisrael or Dawlat Israil]
In Treatment &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> A 2012 Cracked blog post claims that part of the reason for this trend could be traced to the “I Learned It by Watching You” anti-drug PSA. For 10 points each:
Identify this common feature of such 1980s sitcoms as Gimme a Break!, Diff’rent Strokes, and Punky Brewster.
This ABC sitcom featured a widower, played by Tony Danza, who moves to Connecticut with his daughter so he can be a housekeeper for Angela Bower.
After the death of his older sister, Pam, this character moves in with his brother-in-law Danny in a sitcom that got a revival on Netflix in 2016. This character’s surname got changed from Cochran after one season to make it sound more Greek.
dead moms [accept any answer indicating a mother is absent; prompt on answers that mention “parents”]
Who’s the Boss?
Uncle Jesse [or Hermes Katsopolis; prompt on “Katsopolis”] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> This comedian’s style was influenced by his earlier career as a Pentecostal preacher, which led to his first album being titled <em>Louder Than Hell</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this comedian whose characteristic ear-splitting screams were often paired with misogynistic and homophobic jokes. He died in a car accident in 1992.
Kinison once said that this other misogynistic comedian stole “Fonzie’s jacket, Stallone’s attitude, and Kinison’s jokes.” Kinison and this comedian were once friends on the L.A. comedy scene but later became bitter rivals. This comedian became well known for telling dirty versions of nursery rhymes.
Clay was banned for life from this cable channel after he told two of his dirty nursery rhymes and used some bad words while he was supposed to be introducing a live performance by Cher during an awards show.
Sam Kinison [or Samuel Burl Kinison]
Andrew Dice Clay [or Andrew Clay Silverstein]
MTV [or Music Television] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> An alternate version of the music video for this group’s highest-charting song features scenes of Katie Holmes and James Van Der Beek from the third season of <em>Dawson’s Creek</em> as lyrics such as “She was the one to hold me the night the sky fell down” are heard. For 10 points each:
Name this pop rock duo of identical twins, who sang, “Would you look at her. She looks at me. She’s got me thinking about her constantly. But she don’t know how I feel,” in their 2000 hit “Crazy for This Girl.”
In the 2000 year-end charts, the highest-charting song with “girl” in its title was “What a Girl Wants,” a song by this pop artist behind “Genie in a Bottle” and “Come on Over Baby.”
The second-highest-charting 2000 single with “girl” in its title is “(Absolutely) Story of a Girl,” which was recorded by this band named for a period of time.
Evan and Jaron
Christina Aguilera [or Christina Maria Aguilera]
Nine Days &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> This film’s protagonist is forced to admit, through headphones permitting translation to and from German, that he abandoned his daughter, Olive, “to have anal sex with [his] homosexual lover, Eric.” For 10 points each:
Name this film in which Sammy Barnathan, who has followed theater director Caden Cotard for 20 years, is cast as Cotard in a sprawling production.
Synecdoche, New York stars this actor as Cotard. He won the Oscar for Best Actor for playing Truman Capote in Capote before dying of a heroin overdose.
The film ends with the Dianne Wiest–portrayed character of Ellen giving Cotard this instruction through his earpiece.
Synecdoche, New York (sin-EK-duh-kee, “New York”)
Philip Seymour Hoffman [accept PSH]
“die” &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> In a Drew Magary funbag on <em>Deadspin</em>, a reader writes that Drew bears an unfortunate resemblance to a man in an ad for this company who, when his wife asks whether she should pack red or black lingerie for a trip, responds with a creepy look and the word “both.” For 10 points each:
Name this company that uses the slogan “We’ll pick you up.”
A 2017 Enterprise ad features this actress touting its services. She also appears in promos for The Good Place, on which she stars as Eleanor Shellstrop.
In the mid-2010s, this actor starred in National Car Rental ads using the slogan “Go like a pro.” In one such ad, he claimed that he was not a “control freak” but a “control enthusiast” while bragging that he didn’t have to “talk to any humans” because he can “choose any car in the aisle.”
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Kristen Bell [or Kristen Anne Bell]
Patrick Warburton [or Patrick John Warburton] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> This city was home to a longtime Tigers minor-league affiliate known as the Rebels. For 10 points each:
Name this city that hosted the NCAA Division II college baseball championship from 1985 to 2007 and, since 2004, has been home to the Double-A Rays affiliate named the Biscuits.
One Biscuit alumnus was this left-handed pitcher, most recently employed by the Dodgers, who was a top prospect when he was traded to the Rays organization in a baffling deal that sent Victor Zambrano to the Mets.
In 2004 while playing for the Rays, Zambrano led the league in this statistic; the next year, also with the Rays, Kazmir led the league in this statistic. Greg Maddux set an NL record in 2001 by pitching 72 and a third innings without allowing one of these occurrences.
Montgomery, Alabama
Scott Kazmir [or Scott Edward Kazmir]
walks allowed [or bases on balls; or free passes; or BBs] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> A crowd of people dance around a beach bonfire in the vaguely Lord of the Flies–inspired video for this song, which was the first non-promotional single from the album <em>Oracular Spectacular</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 2008 song that opens by declaring, “I’m feeling rough. I’m feeling raw. I’m in the prime of my life.”
“Time to Pretend” is a song by this Andrew VanWyngarden–fronted band behind “Electric Feel” and “Kids.”
In 2009, MGMT threatened to sue this French political party, at the time led by Nicolas Sarkozy, for using “Kids” at a party conference and in online videos. The band noted that the unauthorized use of the song at the same time this party was pushing anti-piracy legislation was “a little wack.”
“Time to Pretend”
MGMT
UMP [or Union for a Popular Movement; or Union pour un Mouvement Populaire] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> A digital spin-off of this soap opera focused on its minor characters and was called <em>Ambridge Extra</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this soap opera that has been running since 1951, which included Norman Painting playing one of the title characters right up until two days before his death in 2009.
The Archers has been produced by the BBC for this medium since its start in 1951 and still brings in millions of listeners for each episode.
For the 10,000th episode of The Archers, this actress played the normally silent Pru Forrest. Between 2004 and 2012, this actress also did voice work for six James Bond video games.
The Archers
radio
Judi Dench [or Judith Olivia Dench] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> At several junctures, the host of this series directly rebuts the claims of Kenneth Clark. For 10 points each:
Name this four-part BBC series on the history of art that has episodes discussing the ideologies surrounding the female nude, the oil painting as the embodiment and epitome of private property, and advertisements. It was adapted into a book by its presenter, the Booker Prize–winning novelist John Berger (BUR-jur).
The first episode of Ways of Seeing acknowledges a debt to Walter Benjamin’s (BEN-yuh-meen’s) theories about the artwork in the “age” of the “mechanical” form of this process, which Berger argues has changed the meaning and context of art by allowing it to be viewed anywhere.
In the 2000s, BBC Four aired an art documentary presented by this artist titled Secret Knowledge, based on his book of the same title. He argues in the book and the program that the incredibly precise detail of western oil painting was enabled through the use of mirrors and, later, the camera obscura.
Ways of Seeing
mechanical reproduction [accept any answer indicating reproducing or making copies or equivalents]
David Hockney &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> In a preseason game in 2000, this team lost three players for the season to injuries that they blamed on seams in a stadium’s Astroturf. For 10 points each:
Name this team that lost All-Pro wide receiver Rob Moore, who led the league in receiving yards three years earlier, to injury in that game.
The injuries occurred on the Astroturf of this stadium, which was patchy because of a recent baseball game. Gary Anderson’s only missed field goal of the 1998–99 season occurred in this stadium and led to the Falcons winning the 1998 NFC Championship Game.
In 1983, the longest running play in NFL history occurred in the Metrodome when this team’s running back, Tony Dorsett, ran 99 yards for a touchdown. In the 1990s, this team won three Super Bowls with quarterback Troy Aikman.
Arizona Cardinals [accept either underlined portion]
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome
Dallas Cowboys [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> A song about this person plays as Lloyd’s dream sequence imagines him returning Mary’s suitcase, embracing her, and taking a peek at her ass in <em>Dumb and Dumber</em>. For 10 points each:
In the song “The Rain, the Park, and Other Things,” the singer says, “I knew she could make me happy,” about what person? The singer declares that he loves this person, but “I don’t know just why; she simply caught my eye.”
“The Rain, the Park, and Other Things” was the second-highest-charting single for the Cowsills, whose only number-one hit was the title song from this 1968 “American tribal love-rock musical” that also spawned the 5th Dimension single “Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In.”
“The Rain, the Park, and Other Things” was written by Steve Duboff and this man, who wrote and recorded the minor hit “The Pied Piper” with Duboff as a part of the duo The Changin’ Times. With Michael Lang, he was a copromoter of the Woodstock Festival, which he had filmed with funding from Warner Bros.
the Flower Girl [accept “The Flower Girl” or “I Love the Flower Girl”]
Hair [accept “Hair”]
Artie Kornfeld [or Arthur Lawrence Kornfeld] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> Nomi is blackmailed in this movie by Zack, who knows that she became a prostitute and drug user after her father murdered her mother and committed suicide. For 10 points each:
Name this critical and commercial failure about Nomi’s attempts to go from being a stripper in Las Vegas to one of the title performers.
This Dutch filmmaker directed Showgirls and became the first person to attend the Golden Razzies ceremony to receive his prizes for Worst Director and Worst Picture. He had more success with the movies RoboCop and Starship Troopers.
Part of the supposed appeal of Showgirls was that it was an NC-17 movie starring this actress, who had only recently stopped portraying Jessie Spano on Saved by the Bell.
Showgirls
Paul Verhoeven
Elizabeth Berkley [or Elizabeth Berkley Lauren] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> This device is proclaimed a “rousing success” after the image of “Stephen Hawking in a pizzeria” is declared “preposterous” and a machine that isn’t “worth the gold it’s made of” is pushed into a trash bin. For 10 points each:
Name this device. At the end of an episode revealed to have been almost entirely a simulation, a scientist says, “A man can dream though . . . a man can dream,” when considering the prospect of inventing this device.
The Fing-Longer is eventually invented by this professor, a descendant of Philip Fry on Futurama.
In “Anthology of Interest I,” Bender asks the What-If Machine what would happen if he had this general characteristic. After the scenario plays out, Fry poses the same question because he “liked it” and wants to “see it again.”
Fing-Longer
Professor Farnsworth [or Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth]
Bender is really giant [or 500 feet tall; accept answers indicating that Bender is big or large] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> After winning the forerunner of the French Open in 1956, this woman won both Wimbledon and the precursor to the U.S. Open in both of the following years. For 10 points each:
Name this woman who was compared to Jackie Robinson for being the first black athlete to break the color barrier of international tennis.
Gibson was the first, and for 15 years the only, woman of color to win a Grand Slam championship, a drought that ended with the 1971 French Open win by this woman of Australian Aboriginal heritage. She remains the only woman to have won the French Open on her first try.
After Goolagong, a woman of color did not win a Grand Slam championship until this American’s U.S. Open title in 1999. In 2000–01, her older sister equaled Gibson’s feat of winning both Wimbledon and the U.S. Open in consecutive years.
Althea Gibson
Evonne Goolagong [or Evonne Fay Goolagong Cawley; accept any underlined portion]
Serena Williams [or Serena Jameka Williams; prompt on “Williams”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> In 1997, the <em>Boston Herald</em> reported that this man claimed that song lyrics about him dating “an older version of” the singer, and the singer’s habit of bugging him “in the middle of dinner,” were “very close to home.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who has both accepted and denied that he is the subject of a song in which the addressee is reminded of “the mess you left when you went away.”
This singer has never confirmed that Coulier is the subject of her breakup song “You Oughta Know,” found on her album Jagged Little Pill, which also contains “Ironic.”
The bassist Flea and this guitarist were session musicians on “You Oughta Know”; Flea and this guitarist were both members of the same band until this man was fired in 1998.
Dave Coulier [or David Alan Coulier]
Alanis Morissette [or Alanis Nadine Morissette]
Dave Navarro [or David Michael Navarro] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> The only alumnus of this university currently in the NFL is Falcons guard Brandon Fusco. For 10 points each:
Name this Division II football school whose scores have been announced at The Big House since 1959, a tradition that started because this school has a funny name.
The Big House is the home stadium of this Big Ten school, which has a major rivalry with Ohio State and an in-state rival located in East Lansing.
Slippery Rock is located in this eastern state, where its in-state conference rivals include Shippensberg University and the deceptively named California University.
Slippery Rock University [prompt on “SRU” or “The Rock” or “The Pride”]
University of Michigan [accept Wolverines; prompt on “U of M”]
Pennsylvania &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> This artist referenced his apparel company T.W.I.S.M. (twiz-um) in his guest verse on Michael Jackson’s song “2 Bad” and declared, “When it comes to money, I’m like Dick DeVos,” in his guest verse on the Fu-Schnickens song “What’s Up Doc? (Can We Rock).” For 10 points each:
Name this rapper whose own platinum-certified 1993 debut album featured the singles “I’m Outstanding” and “(I Know I Got) Skillz.”
Two other songs on Shaq Diesel featured guest appearances by Phife Dawg, a member of this hip-hop group that released the 2016 album We Got It from Here . . . Thank You 4 Your Service shortly after Phife Dawg’s death.
O’Neal appeared in the video for this singer’s 2000 Radio Disney staple “That’s How I Beat Shaq.”
Shaquille Rashaun O’Neal [accept either underlined portion]
A Tribe Called Quest
Aaron Charles Carter &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> In this film, an obsessive man named Kyle goes through the entire dictionary only to find that the last word, “zythum,” is the password to the title character’s computer. For 10 points each:
Name this film in which Julia Sweeney portrays the androgynous title character, whose gender Kyle is obsessed with revealing.
A major plot point of It’s Pat is the fact that Pat plays the tuba in a performance by this extremely ’90s alternative rock band from Pennsylvania, whose biggest hit, “Push th’ Little Daisies,” appeared on their 1992 album, Pure Guava.
Pat’s androgynous partner in the film is played by this Canadian actor, who also appeared on the sketch comedy show Kids in the Hall and as Dave Nelson on NewsRadio.
It’s Pat
Ween
Dave Foley [or David Scott Foley] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> The jingle for this product begins by asking, “What rolls down the stairs, alone or in pairs, rolls over your neighbor’s dog?” For 10 points each:
Name this children’s toy manufactured by Blammo!, which was advertised with a jingle whose lyrics state, “It’s better than bad. It’s good.”
Log commercials were a recurring bit on this original Nicktoon, which ran from 1991 to 1995 and was named for its title characters, a chihuahua and a cat.
The fictional ad for this similar product on Ren and Stimpy began with a woman asking, “What is that awful smell?” The jingle for this product calls it “the most perfect cube of fat,” which is fitting, because it is a cube of fat.
Log
The Ren and Stimpy Show [accept Ren and Stimpy]
Flod &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> This song, the second single from the album <em>Man of Colours</em>, repeatedly asks, “Are you hiding somewhere behind those eyes?” and notes, “I just freeze every time you see through me.” For 10 points each:
Name this highest-charting hit for the Australian band Icehouse, whose title phrase follows such lines as “as I’m breaking in two” and “tell me what can I do?”
“Electric Blue” was cowritten by this guitarist, who recorded songs like “Rich Girl” and “Kiss on My List” as part of a duo with vocalist Daryl Hall.
Oates claims that “New York City in the ’80s” inspired this song from the Hall and Oates album H2O. It advises the listener to “watch out” for the title figure, who is described as “a she-cat tamed by the purr of a Jaguar.”
“Electric Blue”
John William Oates
“Maneater” &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> This man’s wife is played by Helen Mirren and he is played by Christopher Plummer in a 2009 Michael Hoffman film in which Paul Giamatti plays an ideologue who is obsessed with this man’s copyrights. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose real-life death at a remote train station in Astapovo is the subject of that film, The Last Station.
In The Last Station, this actor plays Tolstoy’s real-life personal secretary, Valentin Bulgakov. This Scottish actor has played the young Charles Xavier in various X-Men movies beginning in 2011.
This Soviet director oversaw the 1960s film series adaptation of Tolstoy’s War and Peace, in which he played Pierre Bezhukov. He used some of his lavish budget on the project to construct and burn a replica of the Bagration flèches and Raevsky redoubt from the Battle of Borodino.
Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy; or Lyov Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
James McAvoy
Sergei Bondarchuk [or Sergei Fedorovich Bondarchuk] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> Supposedly, Mahatma Gandhi’s five earthly possessions included his glasses, his sandals, his watch, a bowl and plate, and a depiction of these beings. For 10 points each:
Name these beings called Bapu, Ketan, and Bandar in India and Mizaru, Kikazaru, and Iwazaru in Japan, where their popularity spread from a carving on a door of the Toshogu Shrine.
The Three Wise Monkeys are referenced in the line “see no, hear no, speak no evil among us” in the chorus of the song “Three Marlenas,” which appeared alongside “Sixth Avenue Heartache” on this band’s album Bringing Down the Horse.
The three judges mimic the Three Wise Monkeys in the trial scene of this 1968 film, in which the three judges, including Dr. Zaius, debate finer points of “ape law.”
Three Wise Monkeys [or Three Mystical Apes; or see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil monkeys or close equivalents (in any order); prompt on “monkeys” or “apes”]
The Wallflowers
The Planet of the Apes &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> The trailer for this movie reveals that the murderers include “a guy with a meat cleaver and an old record player,” a man “carrying a falcon,” “twins in matching tracksuits,” and Danny Glover. For 10 points each:
Name this movie previewed in the SNL sketch “New Horror Trailer.” Its cast includes Owen Wilson, Gwyneth Paltrow, Anjelica Huston, and Tilda Swinton.
The Midnight Coterie of Sinister Intruders is “from the twisted mind of” this director, who is known for his distinctive color palette and symmetrical shots. He directed The Royal Tenenbaums and Moonrise Kingdom.
The sketch stars this actor as Owen Wilson as The Homeowner. This frequent collaborator with Wes Anderson played a fictional member of Spandau Ballet on an episode of Modern Family.
The Midnight Coterie of Sinister Intruders
Wes Anderson [or Wesley Wales Anderson]
Edward Harrison Norton &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> In the run-up to the 1966 Sunset Strip riots, the city forced this establishment to shorten its name to avoid mentioning alcohol. For 10 points each:
Identify this L.A. club that helped popularize a namesake style of dancing and that shares its name with a Parisian establishment that was possibly the world’s first discotheque.
This group got fired as the Whisky a Go Go house band when they scandalized crowds with Oedipus Rex–inspired lines in their song “The End,” which appeared on their namesake debut album with “Light My Fire.”
This band ruined their 1994 U.S. debut at the Whisky by going on a days-long crystal meth bender and then trying to play several different songs at once, as chronicled in the 2016 documentary Supersonic.
Whisky a Go Go [prompt on “The Whisky” or “The Whisk”]
The Doors
Oasis &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> The fourth of these events was supposedly delayed after a heist carried out by Jason Kusion, which was actually faked in collaboration with other members of CODE and MiniLuv. For 10 points each:
Name this recurring event in a certain MMO, in which thousands of players led by the Goonswarm alliance do as much damage as possible in a certain trade hub. In 2015, it targeted Amarr rather than its usual destination.
Burn Jita takes place in this space-based MMORPG developed by CCP Games, which generally features lots of sanctioned griefing.
Burn Jita 4 caused estimated damage valued at 776 billion units of this in-game EVE currency, which translates into roughly $15,000 in real money due to the fact that it can be exchanged for PLEX, which can be bought and sold in real life.
Burn Jita [prompt on “Burn”]
EVE Online
ISK [or Interstellar Kredits; prompt on “credits”] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> In a 1977 film based on a Thomas Harris novel, this vehicle is piloted by tortured Vietnam POW Michael Lander, who conspires with a Palestinian woman named Dahlia Iyad. For 10 points each:
Name this vehicle that Black September loads up with plastique and metal flechettes in a planned terrorist attack that is thwarted in the thriller film Black Sunday.
Black Sunday centers on a terror plot targeting this major sporting event. In the book version of Tom Clancy’s The Sum of All Fears, terrorists set off a nuclear bomb at this event, but because it came out shortly after 9/11, the film version was not allowed to use NFL images.
A camera on the Goodyear Blimp allows police to spot a sniper at a Super Bowl–like championship game in Two-Minute Warning, a 1976 film starring Charlton Heston and this Greek-American actor who played Guy Woodhouse in Rosemary’s Baby.
Goodyear Blimp [prompt on “blimps” or “Columbia” or “America”]
Super Bowl
John Cassavetes [or John Nicholas Cassavetes] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> After Chris Webber, Penny Hardaway, and Allan Houston made sluggish recoveries from this procedure in the 1990s and early 2000s, only five NBA players have undergone it since 2010. For 10 points each:
Name this minimally invasive surgical procedure in which cartilage growth is stimulated from a “super-clot” by creating small defects in a bone plate of the knee. Amare Stoudemire, who underwent this procedure in 2005 and played up to his old standards for a few years, now regrets undergoing it.
Microfracture surgery may have shortened the career of Greg Oden, who had a largely ineffective career marred by knee injuries after being selected number-one overall ahead of Kevin Durant by this Pacific Northwest NBA team.
This prep-to-pro small forward was drafted in 2000 and released by the Blazers in 2008 following microfracture surgery, although he did subsequently play for Memphis. He is perhaps best known for playing a high school basketball player needing a good SAT result in the 2004 film The Perfect Score.
microfracture surgery [accept answers mentioning microfracture or microfracturing]
Portland Trail Blazers [accept either underlined portion]
Darius Miles [or Darius LaVar Miles] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> Five different actors played this TV show’s character Owen Salinger, the youngest of the Salinger siblings. For 10 points each:
Name this TV show that starred Neve Campbell and followed the title group of orphans after their parents are killed in a car crash.
This actress played Claudia Salinger, the youngest girl of the family, on Party of Five. She later was the original voice of Meg Griffin on Family Guy before Mila Kunis took over.
Jennifer Love Hewitt’s character Sarah Reeves got a spin-off with this title that lasted for only nineteen episodes. A William Saroyan play with this title depicts Joe, a patron of Nick’s Pacific Street Saloon.
Party of Five
Lacey Nicole Chabert
Time of Your Life [or The Time of Your Life] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> When these characters debuted in 1969, they were led by J.J., who was replaced as their head by Ernie a few years later. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures who, according to the company line, remain true to their creed of creating products that are, “by whatever measure one chooses to apply, uncommonly good.”
The Twitter account dril ignited an internet controversy by tweeting, “I refuse to consume any product that has been created by, or is claimed to have been created by, the Keebler Elves,” with “Keebler Elves” set off with this punctuation that neo-Nazis use to identify Jewish names.
Writing for Tablet, Armin Rosen praised the “Keebler Elves” tweet in an essay stating that dril’s tweet about Crash Bandicoot and Israel is not quite as funny as another tweet in which dril claims that the “greatest thread in the history of forums,” which was “locked by a moderator after 12,239 pages of heated debate,” concerns whether this character is a libertarian.
Keebler Elves [or Keebler Elf; prompt on “elves” or “elf”]
triple parentheses [or triple brackets; or triple parens; or triple parenthesis; or echoes]
Wario &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> In a track by Kenya Gruv that appears in the soundtrack for the film <em>Menace II Society</em>, the singer states that “I won’t bring you down” from this location. For 10 points each:
The chorus of an Ace Hood song from the NBA 2K10 soundtrack says, “Take a look at me now. I’m from the gutta but I made it” to what location?
This rapper’s 2008 track “On Top of the World” features Ludacris and B.o.B. That track appears on this man’s album Paper Trail, which also contains this Atlanta rapper’s “Live Your Life,” “Whatever You Like,” and “Dead and Gone.”
Mase was the featured artist on the 1998 track “Top of the World,” in which this artist sings, “I’m just trying to be me, doing what I got to do. Some people think that I’m just sitting on top of the world.” That song appears on her album Never Say Never, which contains her biggest hit, a duet with Monica.
top of the world [accept “Top of the World”]
T. I. [or Tip; or Clifford Joseph Harris Jr.]
Brandy [or Brandy Rayana Norwood] (The duet with Monica is “The Boy Is Mine.”) &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> The later episodes of this series reveal an “assassination handbook” that suggests “dropping” a target from a height of 75 feet or more onto a hard surface. For 10 points each:
Name this Netflix docudrama series, directed by Errol Morris, that investigates the CIA’s cover-up of the death of army scientist Frank Olson.
Although Olson’s son, Eric, believes that the CIA ordered Olson’s execution, the CIA’s official position is that Olson was dosed with this hallucinogenic drug as a part of Project MKUltra, which also introduced Ken Kesey to this synthetic drug.
Olson’s wife, Alice, was played by this Canadian actress, who portrayed Alma Garret on Deadwood and House Majority Whip Jacqueline Sharp on House of Cards.
Wormwood
LSD [or LSD-25 or lysergic acid diethylamide; accept acid]
Molly Parker &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> After the events of <em>Dragon’s Maze</em>, this character became the Living Guildpact of Ravnica. For 10 points each:
Name this member of the Gatewatch from Vryn, who destroyed the mind of his teacher Alhammarret after learning that Alhammarret had concealed the ignition of this man’s spark. A powerful planeswalker card depicts him as “the Mind Sculptor.”
Every Jace card in Magic: The Gathering is this color, the color of mana produced by basic Islands. Blastoise was the version mascot of the Pokémon game titled for this color.
Jace, the Mind Sculptor’s plus-two ability is functionally the same as, and often called by the name of, this keyword action that allows a player to look at the top N cards of the opponent’s library, put any number of them on the bottom of that library, and put the rest on top of that library in any order.
Jace Beleren [accept either underlined portion; accept Jace, The Mind Sculptor]
blue [or Pokémon: Blue Version]
fateseal [accept fatesealing or fateseal 1] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> This movie was the first major film role for Damon Wayans, who played a non-Zach Randolph character called “Zeebo.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1988 film in which Jim Carrey plays a character named Wiploc and Geena Davis plays Valerie Gail, the love interest of a creature who, at first, is covered in blue fur. It centers on a group of aliens who journey to Southern California in search of sex.
The third alien in Earth Girls Are Easy, Mac, is played by this actor and ex-husband of Geena Davis. Two years earlier, he won a Saturn Award for playing the scientist Seth Brundle, who fuses his DNA with that of an insect, in the David Cronenberg film The Fly.
Goldblum and Davis’s first film together was the 1985 horror comedy Transylvania 6‑5000, which was shot in this country because Dow Chemical was using the film to spend this country’s dinars that could not be repatriated to the United States. For similar reasons and because this country still had a lot of World War II–era infrastructure, the 1970 film Kelly’s Heroes was shot in this country.
Earth Girls Are Easy
Jeff Goldblum [or Jeffrey Lynn Goldblum]
Yugoslavia [prompt on “Croatia”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> In a 2015 article for the <em>Hardball Times</em>, Sarah Wexler looked into a possibly apocryphal story about this baseball player and concluded that, if it took place at all, it was probably in the early 1890s while this man was playing for Boston, and it likely did not prompt a rule change. For 10 points each:
Name this Hall of Fame outfielder, catcher, and player-manager whose legendary exploitation of the rules included supposedly substituting himself into a game mid-play to catch a foul ball.
The “Kelly now catching for Boston” story is recounted in the “first inning” of this American documentarian’s PBS miniseries Baseball.
Kelly was the first baseball player to be the subject of a song, whose lyrics exhorted him to do this action. Kelly is credited with inventing the “hook” version of this action.
King Kelly [or Mike Kelly; or Michael Joseph Kelly]
Ken Burns [or Kenneth Lauren Burns]
slide [accept forms of the word sliding; accept “Slide, Kelly, Slide”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> On this song, drummer John Bonham plays a samba breakdown inspired by the 1978 World Cup and a variant of the “Purdie shuffle” in 4/4 (“four four”) while the rest of the band plays in 12/8 (“twelve eight”). For 10 points each:
Name this song, the last major hit for its band, from the album In through the Out Door. It opens with the lines “oh, there’s a light in your eye that keeps shining like a star that can’t wait for night.”
“Fool in the Rain” was the last major hit for this band, whose other hits include “Black Dog” and “Immigrant Song.”
This Mexican band’s cover of “Fool in the Rain” appeared on the Zeppelin tribute album Encomium. This group, led by Fher Olvera, recorded the album ¿Dónde Jugarán los Niños? and has sold more records than any other Latin American band.
“Fool in the Rain”
Led Zeppelin
Maná &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> This character learns at a young age that he is half Viltrumite through his father, the superhero Omni-Man. For 10 points each:
Identify this Image Comics superhero who helps the Teen Team against the Mauler Twins and later fights his father after learning that his father killed the Guardians of the Globe.
This comic book writer created Invincible in 2003; that same year, this man also created a comic book series set in Georgia that focuses in part on the police officer Rick Grimes.
This Kirkman comic book series rarely uses the word “zombie” and was adapted into a still-running TV show in 2010.
Invincible [or Mark Grayson; or Markus Sebastian Grayson; prompt on “Grayson”]
Robert Kirkman
The Walking Dead &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> In February 2018, this NBA team had consecutive halftime shows performed by Lil John and G-Eazy during Thursday and Saturday night home games attended by celebrities, including Guy Fieri and Antonio Brown. For 10 points each:
Name this NBA team whose former team president, an Englishman named Chris Wright who now runs an MLS team, was credited in July 2018 with helping the England national soccer team develop its set-piece tactics after England manager Gareth Southgate attended one of its games against the Pelicans.
Courtside tickets to Wolves games at Target Center became hot items in early February 2018 because Minneapolis was hosting this major sporting event won by a team from Philadelphia.
The Wolves-Pelicans game attended by Southgate marked the Pelicans debut for this Eastern European forward, who was traded to the Pelicans from the Bulls a few days earlier.
Minnesota Timberwolves [or T’Wolves; accept any underlined portion]
Super Bowl LII (“fifty-two”)
Nikola Mirotić &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> When placed before “sex,” this word describes what Torrance performs on the sidelines of a football game for Cliff, which makes her, “like, totally his eye candy” according to Whitney. For 10 points each:
Identify this word that also functions as a prefix with “-ocracy” and “-tator” when Torrance, as the leader of the Toros, overrules Courtney.
Cheer sex, cheer-ocracy, and cheer-tator are all cheerleading-related terms used in this 2000 movie that starred Kirsten Dunst and Gabrielle Union.
Marley Shelton turned down the role of Torrance so she could instead star in this 2001 movie as a pregnant cheerleader whose squadmates commit robberies to help her out financially.
cheer
Bring It On
Sugar &amp; Spice &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> Dialogue from this film includes the lines “this place is absolutely a mess” and “I thought things were dirty last time, but this time it’s filthy.” For 10 points each:
Name this fictional sequel, subtitled “Never Clean,” that the host of a TV show pretends to be filming to gain access to a high school in Arkansas and look at various yearbooks in an effort to reconnect a professional Bill Gates impersonator with his long-lost love.
The shooting of Mud 2: Never Clean is a plot point in “Finding Frances,” the season-four finale of this Comedy Central show hosted by a Canadian comedian surnamed Fielder.
Writing for the New Yorker, Errol Morris compared Fielder in “Finding Frances” to Bob Arctor, a character who poses as a “world-famous impostor” in this novel. Keanu Reeves and Robert Downey Jr. starred in Richard Linklater’s 2006 film adaptation of this sci-fi novel.
Mud 2: Never Clean
Nathan for You
A Scanner Darkly (by Philip K. Dick) &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> Answer the following about video game “aces” who aren’t attorneys, for 10 points each:
The first game by the Chilean developer Ace Team was a total conversion mod of Doom II that starred this character, the title character of Rocksteady Studios games subtitled Arkham Asylum and Arkham City.
The recently released Aces is the latest game in this sports series, whose first entry introduced the best character in all of video games, Waluigi.
Ace Azzameen takes part in both his family’s fight against the Viraxo and the Galactic Civil War in this well-regarded 1999 spaceflight simulation game, the last in its universe developed by Totally Games.
Batman [accept Batman Doom or Batman: Arkham Asylum or Batman: Arkham City; prompt on either underlined portion of “Bruce Wayne”]
Mario Tennis
Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance [prompt on “Alliance”; do not accept or prompt on “X-Wing” alone] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> Wikipedia improbably and unverifiably claims that “this song was also used in the production of <em>The Bear</em> by Anton Chekhov performed by Rebecca Gove and Ioannis Bakogeorgos,” which internet sleuthing suggests was edited into the article by Bakogeorgos himself. For 10 points each:
Name this hit song from 1998 whose chorus contains the extremely Chekhovian sentiment that, “when everything’s made to be broken, I just want you to know who I am.”
The Goo Goo Dolls’ “Iris” initially did not make the Billboard charts, because it was not released as a commercial single but instead appeared on this 1998 film’s soundtrack. Its soundtrack also included the song “Uninvited,” Alanis Morissette’s first single after Jagged Little Pill.
The third mega-smash-hit on the City of Angels soundtrack was this woman’s aptly titled song “Angel,” which is actually about the death from heroin overdose of Smashing Pumpkins touring keyboardist Jonathan Melvoin and not about animal cruelty. Her earlier hit “I Will Remember You” was written for the soundtrack to The Brothers McMullan.
“Iris”
City of Angels
Sarah McLachlan [or Sarah Ann McLachlan] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> Andrew Brandt of MMQB wrote that this term “clearly does not apply” to a quarterback who was allegedly stripped of his captaincy in a rigged team vote, while other commentators noted that it would apply to players who jumped the line on a kneeldown as instructed. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the preferred type of player of a coach who presided over a locker room outbreak of MRSA while compiling an 11–21 record with an NFC South team.
In 2012, Greg Schiano proposed replacing this common football play with a scoring team receiving a 4th-and-15 on its own 30 yard line. Under current NFL rules, this type of play follows every field goal, extra point, or two-point conversion attempt.
Schiano’s proposal to replace kickoffs was supported in a video made by this SBNation writer, who had previously lampooned Schiano by creating a Tampa Bay roster consisting of 44 Greg Schianos in his “Breaking Madden” series.
Schiano men [or Schiano man]
kickoff [prompt on “kick”; do not accept or prompt on “onside kick” or similar answers]
Jon Bois &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> Answer the following about the history of Colonial Street on the backlot of Universal Studios, for 10 points each:
Colonial Street was called Wisteria Lane for this ABC series that ran for eight seasons starting in 2004. This show’s cast included Teri Hatcher and Eva Longoria.
Colonial Street had earlier been the site of 1313 Mockingbird Lane, the home of this family in a namesake 1960s sitcom. This family’s father and mother were played by Fred Gwynne and Yvonne De Carlo.
Colonial Street was where this short-lived 1979 sitcom was shot. Based on a 1978 comedy movie, this series brought back such characters as Flounder and D-Day and introduced Blotto.
Desperate Housewives
Munsters [or Munster family]
Delta House &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> In 2013, Mia Farrow tweeted a picture of herself and Philip Roth with a caption that claimed they were watching this movie together, though that was later found to have been a joke. For 10 points each:
Name this Syfy film, the first in a series in which Tara Reid plays April Shepard, who along with her husband and a host of Z-tier celebrity cameos repeatedly encounters a goofy-ass meteorological phenomenon.
April’s aptly named husband, Fin, is played by this actor, who apparently also voiced Vinnie on Biker Mice from Mars.
Ziering originally gained fame for playing this character, the rich-kid best friend of Jason Priestley’s Brandon Walsh on Beverly Hills, 90210.
Sharknado
Ian (EYE-an) Ziering
Steve Sanders [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> A horizontal bar skill consisting of a Tkatchev with full-twisting layout is named for this person, the gold medalist in that discipline at the 1988 Olympics. For 10 points each:
Identify this Soviet gymnast who is also the namesake of one of only two skills with a D-score of H, consisting of a triple back somersault in the floor exercise.
Valeri Liukin’s daughter, Nastia, is the namesake of a skill in this gymnastics event, in which competitors perform skills on a narrow, leather-covered apparatus before dismounting.
Both Liukins now live and work in this state, where the U.S. women’s gymnastic’s training center dubbed the “Karolyi Ranch” was closed in the wake of the Larry Nassar sexual assault scandal.
Valeri Liukin [or Valeri Viktorovich Liukin]
balance beam
Texas &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> This man worked with rapper Steve Miser to produce the music for the Sebastian Telfair documentary <em>Through the Fire</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this recording artist and composer who had a major mainstream hit in 1996 titled “Barely Breathing.”
Sheik won two Tonys and a Grammy for composing the score to this 2006 Broadway musical that was based on a play by Frank Wedekind.
Sheik’s most recent successful musical was an adaptation of this Bret Easton Ellis novel about the serial killer and business-card enthusiast Patrick Bateman.
Duncan Sheik
Spring Awakening
American Psycho &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> A 2014 documentary describes how this film was meant to be the mainstream turn for a South African filmmaker who rose to prominence directing the low-budget horror flicks <em>Hardware</em> and <em>Dust Devil</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1996 film that was supposed to be directed by Richard Stanley but that John Frankenheimer was brought in to direct after Stanley feuded with Val Kilmer, as documented in the 2014 film Lost Soul.
The other big star of The Island of Doctor Moreau was this aging actor, who played Dr. Moreau as a rotund eccentric who always wore tons of sunscreen.
Brando insisted on creating a prominent role for Nelson de la Rosa, the world’s shortest man, whose dress in small versions of Brando’s ridiculous costumes was supposedly the inspiration for this tiny sidekick to Dr. Evil in the Austin Powers films.
The Island of Doctor Moreau
Marlon Brando [or Marlon Brando Jr.]
Mini-Me &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> Answer the following about European leftist terrorism and popular music, for 10 points each.
Revolutionary Cells member Hans-Joachim Klein took his nom de guerre from this Rolling Stones song, whose title woman is told, “You can’t say we never tried,” and, “You can’t say we’re satisfied.”
This band’s album Slap! contained the song “Ulrike,” which was titled for Red Army Faction leader Ulrike Meinhof. This committedly anarchist band wrote one of the most influential songs about getting knocked down and getting back up again, their 1997 hit, “Tubthumping.”
The British Special Branch opened a file on this front man after he wore a T-shirt shouting out the Red Brigades and Red Army Faction on stage at the 1978 Rock against Racism concert organized by the Anti-Nazi League.
“Angie”
Chumbawamba
Joe Strummer [or John Graham Mellor] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> Players of this game often seek out enemies called Movers and Magic Pots in the Northern Cave to farm AP and thus master their Materia. For 10 points each:
Name this JRPG. Such AP-farming players may take advantage of the triple growth offered by Cloud Strife’s Apocalypse sword.
The only other triple-AP-growth weapon in the game is this character’s Scimitar. The Venus Gospel is the ultimate weapon of this original owner of the Tiny Bronco.
Immediately after obtaining the Tiny Bronco, ambitious AP farmers can head to the southern part of the map to fight enemies near this island town. Later in the game, the party finds that Cloud has surfaced in this town after falling into the Lifestream.
Final Fantasy VII (“seven”) [or Fainaru Fantaji Sebun]
Cid Highwind [accept either underlined portion]
Mideel &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> This was the surname of a fan named John who sued the Royals after suffering a detached retina when its mascot, Sluggerrr, pelted him in the face with a hot dog while he was looking at the scoreboard. For 10 points each:
Identify this surname of a one-time All-Star third baseman who was replaced by Corey Koskie on his most notable team, the Twins, after the 2000 season.
Ron Coomer left the Twins to join this NL Central team, for which he is now the color analyst on the radio broadcast. This team won the World Series in 2016 under manager Joe Maddon.
John Coomer’s failure to prevail in his suit against the Royals was mentioned as a cautionary tale to Kathy McVay, who in 2018 was pegged by an encased-meat projectile from a hot-dog gun fired by this mascot created in the 1970s to draw fans to Veterans Stadium.
Coomer [accept John Coomer or Ron Coomer or Ronald Bryan Coomer]
Chicago Cubs [prompt on “Chicago”]
Phillie Phanatic &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> An ad that concludes with a girl played by Hannah Alligood asking this question features the song “Go” by Louis the Child. For 10 points each:
Identify this three-word question that ends a commercial in which that girl chats with her friends and writes a report called “Bugs of the City.”
Alligood plays Frankie Fox on this FX show that centers on a Pamela Adlon–portrayed divorcée raising her three daughters.
Better Things was cocreated by this comedian, whose namesake show was put on an “extended hiatus” after he admitted to sexual misbehavior.
what’s a computer?
Better Things
Louis C.K. [or Louis A. Székely] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> In this film, the Offspring appear as a band playing a Halloween party whose lead singer is scalped, causing a panic. For 10 points each:
Name this 1999 horror comedy film in which Devon Sawa plays Anton Tobias, a teenager with a murderous, possessed body part.
After Idle Hands, Sawa appeared as Alex Browning in this franchise-spawning horror film in which Death inflicts gruesome fates on several teens who cheated him by not boarding a plane that later exploded.
Idle Hands was an early credit for this actress, who played the love interest of Sawa’s character. This actress played Sydney Wells, a blind violinist who starts having terrible visions after receiving a cornea transplant, in the 2008 Hollywood remake of the 2003 Hong Kong horror film The Eye.
Idle Hands
Final Destination
Jessica Alba [or Jessica Marie Alba] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> On the show in which he appears, this character is an actor who portrays a hero who battles the villains Dr. Hypnoto and The Rat. For 10 points each:
Name this character who was depicted balancing everyday life in North Carolina with his starring role in a TV series called Silverstone.
Jett Jackson was portrayed by Lee Thompson Young, who, before his 2013 death, played Detective Barry Frost on this TNT show starring Angie Harmon and Sasha Alexander as a detective and medical examiner, respectively. According to Wikipedia, it “has been described as having lesbian undertones.”
Young played FBI Special Agent Al Gough in this short-lived ABC series, which was based on a book by Canadian sci-fi writer Robert J. Sawyer and centers on a worldwide event in which people see visions of events that will occur six months in the future on April 29, 2010.
Jett Jackson [accept either underlined portion; accept The Famous Jett Jackson]
Rizzoli &amp; Isles
FlashForward &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> This athlete wrote the memoir <em>In My Skin</em>, in which she describes dealing with the bullying that was caused by people’s reactions to her size and sexuality. For 10 points each:
Name this first pick of the 2013 WNBA draft, a six-foot-eight center from Baylor who led the WNBA in blocks each of her first four years in the league.
In 2015, Griner appeared in this special edition of a sports magazine. Griner joked that the appearance would make it clear to people who thought she was a man that she “embrace[s] the flatness.”
Griner married this other basketball star in 2015, but a series of issues before and after the marriage led Griner and this player for the Dallas Wings to divorce in 2016.
Brittney Griner [or Brittney Yevette Griner]
The Body Issue [prompt on ESPN the Magazine]
Glory Johnson &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> For this band’s second album, <em>Boces</em>, it took a radically democratic approach to composing, resulting in a set of extremely weird songs that got them booted from the stage at Lollapalooza for being too loud. For 10 points each:
Name this indie rock band formed in Buffalo that came into commercial success with their 1998 album Deserter’s Songs, which contains their single “Goddess on the Hiway.” Its original lineup included Jonathan Donahue and a guitarist known by the mononym “Grasshopper.”
In the United States, Mercury Rev’s follow-up to Deserter’s Songs, All Is Dream, shared this inauspicious commonality with Bob Dylan’s Love and Theft and Jay-Z’s The Blueprint.
One Mercury Rev member is a former member of this band, and another Mercury Rev member has coproduced most of this band’s albums, including Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots.
Mercury Rev
released on 9/11 [accept any answer indicating that they albums all came out on September 11, 2001]
The Flaming Lips &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> In 2017, a mayor in this state signed a memorandum with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to allow high school football games to be played at night again for the first time in seven years. For 10 points each:
What state had a county that banned nighttime games in an effort to protect Newell’s shearwaters?
This stadium, which opened in 2016, has become the bird death trap many feared it would be, with some projections estimating 500 birds will be killed by it over three years. A joke Facebook event called for people to dress up as birds and run into the sides of this stadium two days before Super Bowl LII (“fifty-two”).
This university’s Albertsons Stadium is known for its Smurf Turf, the blue color of which was rumored to cause birds to dive bomb into it to their death. This university fittingly hosts the Famous Idaho Potato Bowl.
Hawaii
U.S. Bank Stadium
Boise State University [or BSU] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> In an episode titled for a “visit” from this man, his skills are put to the test when a mom leaves him with two children while she angrily drives away to confront three men who have gone to a baseball game. For 10 points each:
Name this fictional child psychologist, the author of Taming Your Toddler, whose work is frequently cited by Didi on Rugrats.
Didi is the matriarch of this family on Rugrats. Its other members include Stu, Tommy, Dill, and Emmet, a cousin who basically only says, “I’m hongry.”
Rugrats Go Wild, which is a crossover film with The Wild Thornberrys that begins with the Rugrats families missing a “Lipschitz cruise,” has an extended scene in which this character, voiced by Bruce Willis, tries to tell Eliza Thornberry where his “babies” are.
Dr. Werner P. Lipschitz [accept either underlined portion]
Pickles family
Spike &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> This man wrote a 1969 novel in which Runciter Associates employee Joe Chip seeks to acquire the title mysterious product, which prevents people existing in a state of “half-life” from deteriorating. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Ubik (YOO-bik) and The Man in the High Castle, whose novella Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? was adapted into the film Blade Runner.
A 1950s short story by Dick in which events are controlled by a secret organization applying “corrections” to reality was the basis for a 2011 thriller starring Matt Damon as a Brooklyn congressman who is “reset” by the namesake organization after meeting a woman played by Emily Blunt. Name either the story or the film.
A post–Second Civil War United States is the setting of this dystopian 1974 Dick novel about the singer and TV host Jason Taverner, whose title is a reference to an ayre by John Dowland.
Philip K. Dick [or Philip Kindred Dick]
The Adjustment Bureau [or “Adjustment Team”]
Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said [do not accept or prompt on “Flow My Tears”] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> Answer the following about video games set on Mars, for 10 points each.
While the original 1993 id Software FPS of this title is set largely on Phobos and Deimos, the 2016 reboot moves the invading demons from Hell to the surface of the planet itself.
The villainous Ultor Corporation from the Saints Row games first appeared in this series of Volition games, whose Geo-Mod engine allowed for varying levels of terrain destruction. Its first and third games depict worker uprisings on Mars.
A quest on Mars that gives Warlocks access to the Stormcaller subclass is part of this third major expansion to Destiny, the primary antagonist of which is Crota’s father Oryx.
Doom
Red Faction [accept Red Faction: Guerrilla]
Destiny: The Taken King &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> Answer the following about some ’80s music Eddies who weren’t in Iron Maiden, for 10 points each.
The 1981 Brixton riots inspired lines like “down in the street there is violence” from this 1983 Eddy Grant hit, whose chorus claims “we gonna rock down to” the title place, “and then we’ll take it higher.”
After some late ’70s success with “Baby Hold On” and “Two Tickets to Paradise,” Eddie Money hit the top 10 again in 1986 with this song. Its chorus advises, “Listen, honey, just like Ronnie said,” before the Ronettes’ Ronnie Spector delivers the line “be my little baby.”
This artist behind “Suspicions” and “Every Which Way but Loose” hit number one on the top 100, adult contemporary, and country charts simultaneously with his 1980 song “I Love a Rainy Night.”
“Electric Avenue”
“Take Me Home Tonight”
Eddie Rabbitt [or Edward Thomas Rabbitt] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> This man rants to his real-life colleague Joanna Hoffman, played by Kate Winslet, after <em>Time</em> magazine reveals a dispute in which this man refused to acknowledge paternity of Chrisann Brennan’s daughter, Lisa. For 10 points each:
Name this businessman who was played by Michael Fassbender in a 2015 film written by Aaron Sorkin.
The 2015 film Steve Jobs was written by Sorkin based on a biography of Jobs by this author, a former CEO of the Aspen Institute and managing editor of Time whose other slobbery tech profiles include the 2014 book The Innovators.
Jobs was the biological sibling of this American novelist, whose books include Anywhere but Here and The Lost Father.
Steve Jobs [or Steven Paul Jobs]
Walter Isaacson
Mona Simpson [or Mona Jandali] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> During the 2018 NHL All-Star Game, a split screen showed this coach and Erik Karlsson on either side of referee Wes McCauley as he waved off Karlsson’s goal with a dramatic offside call. For 10 points each:
Name this coach who was hired in June 2018 as the new coach of the New York Islanders after resigning his previous post over a contract dispute.
Trotz will not return to coach this team’s title defense despite leading them and their Russian star, Alex Ovechkin, to their first Stanley Cup in 2018.
For most of 2013, Trotz was the second-longest-tenured coach in major North American pro sports, behind Gregg Popovich, after coaching this expansion franchise since its 1997 debut. In 2017, under Trotz’s replacement, Peter Laviolette, this franchise made its first Stanley Cup final.
Barry Trotz
Washington Capitals [accept either underlined portion]
Nashville Predators [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> This actress’s first role was on a soap opera where her character eventually became a builder’s apprentice, and, as the <em>Daily Telegraph</em> wrote, “Let’s not forget the brief period she dated a recently bereaved Phil on some paddleboats.” For 10 points each:
Name this actress who began her career playing the tomboyish Beth Brennan on the Australian soap opera Neighbors.
Imbruglia’s biggest acting role was as Interpol agent Lorna Campbell in this 2003 film, whose plot centers on the crypto-Jacobite Pascal Edward Sauvage’s attempts to supplant Queen Elizabeth II, in one instance by threatening to kill her corgis.
Johnny English stars Imbruglia opposite this comic actor, who played Mr. Bean in various TV series and films.
Natalie Imbruglia [or Natalie Jane Imbruglia]
Johnny English
Rowan Atkinson [or Rowan Sebastian Atkinson] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> This TV show’s second season ended with the title character lying down on some steps and calling 9-1-1 as he thinks he is suffering a heart attack. For 10 points each:
Name this CBS drama starring Michael Weatherly as the head of TAC.
TAC is a consulting firm that helps its clients figure out the best people for these groups, with Dr. Bull using his three PhDs in psychology to figure out how people will vote.
This man, who is credited as one of the creators of Bull, was the inspiration for the title character. This man, who is no longer a licensed psychologist, nearly got in trouble for a visit he made to Britney Spears in a hospital in 2008.
Bull
jury [or juries]
Dr. Phil [or Phillip Calvin McGraw] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> Volume 1 of the <em>AND1 Mixtape</em> series focuses on the dribbling skills of this point guard, who popularized a herky-jerky style involving lots of crossovers and jump passes. For 10 points each:
Name this streetballer known as “Skip to My Lou” who played at Fresno State before embarking on a successful NBA career.
Alston’s best NBA seasons came with the Rockets and Magic under a pair of head coaches with this surname, brothers with the first names Stan and Jeff. Jeff, who has this surname, now comments on national ESPN broadcasts with Mark Jackson and Mike Breen.
Alston is a legend at this streetball mecca, a park in Harlem that was also a proving ground for Julius Erving and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.
Rafer Alston [or Rafer Jamel Alston]
Van Gundy [accept Jeff Van Gundy or Jeffrey William Van Gundy or Stan Van Gundy or Stanley Alan Van Gundy]
Rucker Park [or Holcombe Rucker Park] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> A 1988 essay by Mark Newgarden and Paul Karasik that offers an intensive deconstruction of a single 1959 strip is titled “How to Read” this comic, which Art Spiegelman separately noted always used three rocks to indicate the concept of “some rocks.” For 10 points each:
Name this comic strip created by Ernie Bushmiller, whose title character lives with her aunt Fritzi Ritz.
In 2018, the pseudonymous Olivia Jaimes took over Nancy from this artist and former Muppets animator, who had gradually turned the strip into a saccharine paean to old country music and classic rock.
During the late ’80s and early ’90s, Nancy was drawn by Jerry Scott, who is also a cocreator of both Zits and this strip, in which Darryl and Wanda MacPherson have been joined over the years by children Zoe, Hammie, and Wren.
Nancy
Guy Gilchrist
Baby Blues &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> The revelation that this school’s team will be facing off against an evidently all-female squad leads a character to joke that “parcheesi” is a game you can “play with girls.” For 10 points each:
Name this school that, in a plot arc spanning 1963 and 1964, has a football team that faces off against the Mud City Manglers.
The star quarterback for Wossamotta U is this character, who lives in Frostbite Falls with his best friend, a flying squirrel.
The stakes of the Big Game between Wossamotta and Mud City is the entire treasury of this polity led by Fearless Leader, which its secret agent, Boris Badenov, has wagered on the contest.
Wossamotta U
Bullwinkle J. Moose [accept either underlined portion]
Pottsylvania &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> In “Home of the Brave,” Killer Mike raps that he has a “Tahoe” before referencing this pop culture phenomenon to describe the workout habits of his “Thai ho.” For 10 points each:
Name this dated pop culture reference most unfortunately made in Train’s “Drops of Jupiter,” which claims that a woman who “checks out Mozart” while she engages in this exercise program reminds the singer that there’s “room to grow.”
The suggestion “wanna jump up in my Lamborghini Gallado” and “go to my place and just kick it like Tae Bo” is made in this Senegalese-American R &amp; B artist’s 2006 hit “Smack That,” which appeared on his album Konvicted with the other mega-hits “I Wanna Love You” and “Don’t Matter.”
The earliest musical reference to Tae Bo appears to be in Missy Elliott’s 1999 track “Mr. DJ,” in which this featured artist rhymes “Tae Bo” with “sauno.” This “Queen of the Dancehall” is probably best known in the United States for her “toast” on No Doubt’s song “Underneath It All.”
Tae Bo
Akon [or Aliaume Damala Badara Akon Thiam]
Lady Saw [or Marion Hall] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> Creating this thing evidently begins by taking the “dinglebop” and smoothing it out with some “schleem,” followed by a series of sexually evocative steps. For 10 points each:
Name this object of inexplicable functionality whose creation involves “fleeb juice” and “blamfs” in a short parody that appears on an animated show.
The “Plumbus” gag is a Rick and Morty spoof of this show that originated on the Canadian Discovery Channel and shows the production steps of common household products, such as aluminum foil and cereal.
In 2011, Science Channel aired every How It’s Made episode back to back, with only a two-hour interruption to air an episode of this Ricky Gervais series that stars Karl Pilkington as the title reluctant and boorish world traveler.
Plumbus
How It’s Made
An Idiot Abroad &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> Answer the following about novelty songs with connections to sports, for 10 points each.
The defensive line of the 1970s Minnesota Vikings was named for a Sheb Wooley song describing this “one-eyed, one-horned, flying” creature.
Although it has little to do with the mismanagement of the Chicago Bulls, this Bobby Pickett song was put out in 1962 by Garpax Records. The lyrics to this song include “when you get to my door, tell them Boris sent you.”
A parody of ABC’s Wide World of Sports featuring an interviewer named “Red Blazer” precedes the album version of this novelty song, which implores Chick Hearn to “sing along with us” and commands of Chris Schenkel, “Don’t sing nothin’.”
Purple People Eater [accept Purple People Eaters or “The Purple People Eater”]
“The Monster Mash”
“Basketball Jones” [or “Basketball Jones featuring Tyrone Shoelaces”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> This event exposed the writings, under the penname “Socrates,” of a failed writer who also kept a blog in which he inveighed against a professional editor who reviewed his story “Infection,” about a man whose ex-girlfriend gave him herpes. For 10 points each:
Name this event that brought to light the writings of the “SIGINT Philosopher,” who wrote a column in a newsletter called SIDtoday.
The SIGINT Philosopher’s columns appeared in SIDtoday, the official newsletter of this government spy agency mainly charged with processing and analyzing intercepted data. Snowden’s leak revealed its PRISM program of surveillance.
On The Intercept’s “Intercepted” podcast, the SIGINT Philosopher’s work has been read by Bill Camp, who portrayed Dennis Box on this HBO series. It concerns Nasir Khan, a Pakistani-American college student who is accused of murdering a young woman named Andrea.
Edward Snowden leak [accept any answer mentioning Edward Joseph Snowden and the idea of leaking classified information or similar]
NSA [or National Security Agency]
The Night Of &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> This man called Sutton United a “pathetic bunch of clowns” for firing backup goalkeeper Wayne Shaw after Shaw ate a pie during an FA Cup match. For 10 points each:
Name this outspoken Arsenal fan who once became indignant when Arsenal fullback Hector Bellerin and Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn switched their conversation to Spanish to avoid talking to him.
The Express reported that Morgan asked this team’s current manager how Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger still had a job, to which this team’s manager replied, “No idea, but I hope he stays in it for a long time.” The tweet “shut up u egg and get out of cowells hole” was sent at Morgan by Wayne Rooney, this club’s all-time leading goal scorer.
Morgan called this Arsenal and Wales midfielder a “complete and utter liability” in 2012, leading this man to say, “I don’t think I want to do that,” when Morgan offered him a handshake “of peace” in 2015.
Piers Morgan [or Piers Stefan Pughe-Morgan or Piers Stefan O’Meara]
Manchester United F.C. [or Manchester United Football Club or Man U; prompt on “Manchester” or “United”]
Aaron Ramsey [or Aaron James Ramsey] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> The lyric video for this song shows a black-and-white episode of <em>Dance Stage USA</em> in which two faceless dancers with half-white and half-black hair win a competition. For 10 points each:
Name this song that starts with the singer saying, “Come on, come on, turn the radio on; it’s Friday night and I won’t be long.”
“Cheap Thrills” was a hit for this Australian singer, who is known for covering her face with wigs and using Maddie Ziegler in music videos, including one for “Cheap Thrills.”
“Cheap Thrills” hit the top of the Billboard 100 and featured Sean Paul, just like this song from 2003 from the album Dangerously in Love.
“Cheap Thrills”
Sia [or Sia Kate Isobelle Furler]
“Baby Boy” &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> This film came out eight months after <em>The Curve</em>, a Matthew Lillard film with a darker take on the same plot. For 10 points each:
Name this 1998 film in which characters played by Tom Everett Scott and Mark-Paul Gosselaar attempt to drive their roommates to suicide so they can pass their college semesters by catastrophe.
The year 1998 was a great for “twin films,” or movies that have essentially the same conceit or plot, with the most notable examples being Antz and A Bug’s Life and Deep Impact and this asteroid disaster film starring Bruce Willis.
The film Without Limits, a biopic starring Billy Crudup as this athlete, was also released in 1998, on the heels of a 1997 biopic in which he was played by Jared Leto.
Dead Man on Campus
Armageddon
Steve Prefontaine [or Steve Roland Prefontaine; accept Prefontaine; prompt on “Pre”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> In 1994, this man said that it was “a typical Colt move” for them “to pass up a Trent Dilfer when all you have is Jim Harbaugh,” which was why “the Colts are picking second every year.” For 10 points each:
Name this ESPN analyst whose Big Board has shown his rankings of the best available prospects in the NFL Draft since 1984.
This general manager for the Colts asked Chris Mortensen, “Who in the hell is Mel Kiper?” and complained that Kiper had no more credentials than this man’s neighbor, “a postman,” after Kiper criticized the Colts’ picks.
Instead of using the second pick in the draft on Dilfer, the Colts selected this Hall of Famer from San Diego State who went on to win a Super Bowl with the Rams.
Mel Kiper [or Melvin Adam Kiper Jr.]
Bill Tobin
Marshall William Faulk &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> A 2014 interview with Jermaine Fowler on <em>The Occasional</em> sees him get increasingly frustrated that the questions all assume he is Uzo Aduba, an actress on this TV show. For 10 points each:
Name this Netflix series based on Piper Kerman’s memoir about her time served in a women’s prison.
Jermaine Fowler notably does not portray this character on Orange Is the New Black. Uzo Aduba, however, has won two Emmys for playing this character.
In the third season of Orange Is the New Black, Suzanne begins writing this sci-fi erotica series, which becomes very popular at Litchfield.
Orange Is the New Black
Suzanne Warren [accept either answer; or Crazy Eyes]
Time Hump Chronicles &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> The <em>Super Star</em> sub-game <em>Spring Breeze</em> is essentially an updated remake of this game, which introduced several of its series’ recurring bosses, including Whispy Woods. For 10 points each:
Name this 1992 Game Boy game in which the title character, who can inhale enemies and fly by inflating himself, foils the plans of the gluttonous King Dedede.
Another of the recurring bosses to debut in Kirby’s Dream Land was this cloud-like monster with a single huge eye. His “Jr.” form sometimes appears as a mid-boss.
Kirby didn’t gain the ability to copy enemies’ skills by inhaling them until Kirby’s Adventure, the only game in the Kirby series released for this console. In Japan, it’s often called the Famicom.
Kirby’s Dream Land [do not accept or prompt on “Kirby”]
Kracko [or Kracko Jr.]
NES [or Nintendo Entertainment System] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> After Roger Waters strained his voice singing “Shine On You Crazy Diamond” and David Gilmour declined, Roy Harper agreed to sing the lead vocals of this song. For 10 points each:
Name this song from Pink Floyd’s Wish You Were Here that critiques the music industry with such lines as “you’re never gonna die; you’re gonna make it if you try; they’re gonna love you.”
Both Harper and Gilmour were big fans and champions of this British singer, who released the albums Never for Ever and Hounds of Love after bursting onto the scene with her debut single, “Wuthering Heights.”
Bush and Harper collaborated after Bush covered Harper’s “Another Day” as a duet with this musician. This singer later performed a duet with Bush that was inspired by photographs taken by Dorothea Lange during the Great Depression.
“Have a Cigar”
Kate Bush [or Catherine Bush]
Peter Gabriel [or Peter Brian Gabriel] (The second song is “Don’t Give Up.”) &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> This movie had the first film score by LCD Soundsystem artist James Murphy, who also scored the director’s later effort <em>While We’re Young</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this commercially unsuccessful 2010 film in which the title character, who is staying at his brother’s house in L.A. to watch a dog named Mahler, initiates a relationship with a dog walker named Florence.
Greenberg was the first collaboration between Noah Baumbach and this woman, who also worked with Baumbach on the films Mistress America and Frances Ha. In 2018, she was nominated for a Best Director Oscar for Lady Bird.
Greenberg was an early role for this actress, who played Roger Greenberg’s niece Sara in the film. She played Envy Adams in another film that came out in 2010, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World.
Greenberg
Greta Gerwig [or Greta Celeste Gerwig]
Brie Larson [or Brianne Sidonie Desaulniers] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> In 2017, the Major League average for this statistic was 2.01 seconds, and Gary Sanchez had one of the lowest averages, at 1.93 seconds. For 10 points each:
Name this statistic, measured using the Statcast system, that describes, roughly speaking, how long it takes for the ball to reach an infielder after it hits the mitt of the catcher.
A strong pop time is a good indication that a catcher can stop runners from accruing this statistic. The all-time leader in this statistic is Rickey Henderson, with 1,406.
This three-time MVP for the Brooklyn Dodgers is by far the all-time best catcher in terms of caught-stealing percentage. He was the first player to hit 40 home runs in a season in games played as a catcher and was the fifth black player in MLB after Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier.
pop time
stolen bases [or SBs; accept any answer mentioning stealing a base]
Roy Campanella &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> This character first appeared on an episode of <em>Captain Kangaroo</em> in 1956, and she testified in front of Congress during consideration of the Children’s Television Act of 1990. For 10 points each:
Name this character who had a namesake TV show in the ’90s that also featured Charlie Horse and Hush Puppy.
Every episode of Lamb Chop’s Play-Along ended with the performance of this repetitive tune, which Shari Lewis becomes increasingly exasperated with.
Some people attribute the misremembered lyric “the song that never ends” to being another example of this effect, which has been blamed for misspelling Berenstain and not realizing a political leader survived his time in prison.
Lamb Chop
“The Song That Doesn’t End” [do not accept “The Song That Never Ends”]
Mandela effect [or collective false memory] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> This group sang about a location with “a puppy in the parlor and a skillet on the stove and a smelly old blanket with a Navajo wove” and “a chicken on the table, but you gotta say grace” in their song “Old Joe’s Place.” For 10 points each:
Name this group whose most notable performance came at a memorial concert for their former manager, Irving Steinbloom, at which the New Main Street Singers angered them by performing “Never Did No Wanderin’.”
The Folksmen and their rivals appear in this 2003 Christopher Guest mockumentary that parodies the 1960s American folk revival.
In real life, the Folksmen share the same personnel with this parodic heavy metal band whose album Smell the Glove was supposedly censored by having its cover replaced by a solid black rectangle.
The Folksmen
A Mighty Wind
Spinal Tap &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> This mantra named a 2012 art show at the PixelDrip Gallery in Los Angeles, and it was first used in a lunchroom in reference to <em>The Cape</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this mantra that was nearly fulfilled after a TV show moved for its final episodes to Yahoo! Screen.
This friend of Troy Barnes was the first to use the phrase “six seasons and a movie.” He becomes a big fan of the TV show Inspector Spacetime thanks to Britta.
The call from fans for this TV show to reach “six seasons and a movie” was nearly successful, and series creator Dan Harmon has claimed a movie could still happen.
six seasons and a movie
Abed Nadir [accept either]
Community &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> A song by this group likens the addressee to “a Honda Accord in a parking garage,” “a dumb white guy on Entourage,” and “camouflage on camouflage” in an attempt to explain his blandness. For 10 points each:
Name this comedy musical duo whose 2012 album Slippery When Moist contains the aforementioned “I Don’t Know Who You Are” as well as “I Would Never (Have Sex with You)” and “Handjob, Blandjob, I Don’t Understand Job.” Its members are Riki Lindhome and Kate Micucci.
The most watched video on Garfunkel and Oates’s YouTube channel is for this song, whose chorus begins, “Fuck me in the ass ’cause I love Jesus. The good Lord would want it that way,” and describes anal sex as “the sex God can’t see.”
Another Garfunkel and Oates song declares the addressee to be one of these people but encouragingly adds, “Good for you.” Beck claims to be one of these people and then asks, “So why don’t you kill me?” in a song titled for them.
Garfunkel and Oates
“The Loophole”
loser [accept “Such a Loser” or un perdedor] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> Wikipedia notes that this man’s “critics point to the 3rd and 10, long bomb Reche Caldwell caught in the divisional playoff game against the New England Patriots as a sign that [he] is still not meeting expectations,” which is harsh, given that this man has not played since 2013. For 10 points each:
Name this defensive back who, from 2008 to 2012, was a regular starter at left cornerback opposite right cornerback Antonio Cromartie.
Jammer and Cromartie were a dependable cornerback pairing during the golden years of this AFC West franchise, which also employed Antonio Gates, LaDainian Tomlinson, and Philip Rivers in the late 2000s.
Jammer’s Wiki page, which is incredibly critical and written entirely in the present tense, notes that angry Chargers fans sometimes taunt Jammer with name of Lito Sheppard, a Pro Bowl corner taken after Jammer in the first round of the 2002 draft by this franchise that also employed safety Brian Dawkins for 13 seasons.
Quentin Jammer [or Quentin Tremaine Jammer]
San Diego Chargers [accept either underlined portion]
Philadelphia Eagles [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> I bet you didn’t know, or remember, that this company was the original publisher of <em>Half-Life</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this pioneering Washington-based video game developer founded by Ken and Roberta Williams. Its many adventure game titles include the Leisure Suit Larry and Gabriel Knight games.
Sierra produced four different adventure game series whose titles include this word, the protagonists of which include police officer Sonny Bonds, space janitor Roger Wilco, and King Graham and Prince Alexander of Daventry.
Sierra released two games in this abortive horror anthology series. In its second game, subtitled “A Puzzle of Flesh,” protagonist and owner of an adorable pet rat Curtis Craig suffers hallucinations related to a rift leading to “Dimension X.”
Sierra Entertainment [or Sierra On-Line or On-Line Systems; accept Sierra Studios]
quest (Those game series are Police Quest, Space Quest, King’s Quest, and the not‑otherwise-mentioned Quest for Glory.)
Phantasmagoria [accept Phantasmagoria: A Puzzle of Flesh] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> In this character’s second appearance, he destroys a “drug shipment” that was actually his boss’s insulin after supervising the “guns for toys program.” For 10 points each:
Name this detective on the fictional show Police Cops who, before a character change, is a suave “millionaire” whose signature move is to thrust his scarf around his neck and say, “And that’s the end of that chapter.”
When Homer complains to the thirteen producers of Police Cops about the character change of Detective Homer Simpson, they reveal that the show was originally going to be about “high-tech” objects of this type, but the “network idiots didn’t want a show” about objects of this type “that shoot laser beams.”
In response to the incompetent Detective Homer Simpson and because Homer couldn’t spell “Rembrandt Q. Einstein” or “Hercules Rockefeller” correctly, Homer is given this new legal name, which originated as a setting on a blow-dryer.
Detective Homer Simpson [accept either underlined portion]
police badges [accept Badge Patrol]
Max Power [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> This line is repeatedly addressed to a character portrayed by Nick Chinlund, who crumples up a letter detailing its deliverer’s parole and is then defeated in a fight that prompts this line’s speaker to regretfully ask why it couldn’t be done. For 10 points each:
Recite this order given to a rapist nicknamed “Billy Bedlam” in the cargo hold of a C-123 Provider.
Nicolas Cage’s Cameron Poe tells Billy Bedlam to put the bunny back in the box in this 1997 film, which ends with a prisoner-transport airplane crash-landing on the Las Vegas Strip.
In another memorable scene from Con Air, Steve Buscemi’s character, Garland Greene, meets a little girl in an abandoned swimming pool who invites him to sing this repetitive spiritual, which he later sings while the plane is crashing.
“put the bunny back in the box” [accept versions of that answer with “I said” or “why couldn’t you” appended to the beginning]
Con Air
“He’s Got the Whole World in His Hands” &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> This artist’s first musical credit bizarrely appears to be the 1996 soda-promoting compilation disc <em>Twelve Surge Songs</em>, which contains his song “Bella’s Birthday Cake.” For 10 points each:
Name this artist who later included that song on his 1997 album, Message for Albert. His 2000 piano-rock breakout, America Town, contains a song sung from the perspective of a man who “can’t stand to fly.”
Twelve Surge Songs is also an early credit for this band, whose song “Seventeen” is the first on the disc. Their 2001 album, Bleed American, contains their biggest hit, which states, “It just takes some time. Little girl, you’re in the middle of the ride,” and is titled “The Middle.”
This all-female indie rock group contributed the song “Electric” to Twelve Surge Songs. Jill Cunniff and Gabby Glaser were members of this group behind “Citysong” and “Naked Eye” that was named in honor of a former Philadelphia 76er.
Five for Fighting [or John Ondrasik; or Vladimir John Ondrasik III]
Jimmy Eat World
Luscious Jackson &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> In game four of the 2008 NLCS, this man hit his first career postseason home run off Jonathan Broxton, three batters after Shane Victorino’s two-run homer tied the game, to help lift the Phillies over the Dodgers. For 10 points each:
Name this journeyman, a stout “professional hitter” who is one of a handful of Canadians with 200-plus career home runs.
Stairs holds the career MLB record, with 23, for most home runs in this role. Stairs’s NLCS home run was likely his most important hit while in this role.
Stairs had the best seasons of his career playing for this franchise from 1996 to 2000, years during which its GM, Billy Beane, was putting together its “Moneyball” teams.
Matt Stairs [or Matthew Wade Stairs]
pinch hitter [accept any answer indicating home runs hit as a pinch hitter or substitute batter]
Oakland Athletics [or Oakland A’s; accept any underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> This artist included the tracks “Oneovdabigboiz” (“one of da big boys”) and “Ownlee Eue” on his 1990 concept album, <em>A Day in the Life: A Pokadelick Adventure</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this “boy genius” rapper who broke out with 1989’s “The Man We All Know and Love.” His music videos often featured a polka-dot motif.
Kwamé and Eminem coproduced the 2004 song “On Fire” by Lloyd Banks, a member of this hip-hop group that also includes Tony Yayo and the artist of “21 Questions” and “Ayo Technology.”
Under the name “K1 Mil,” Kwamé produced “Switch,” a 2005 song by this rapper and actor. His late-’90s hits included “Wild Wild West” and “Gettin’ Jiggy wit It.”
Kwamé [or Kwamé Holland]
G-Unit [accept Guerilla Unit]
Will Smith [or Willard Carroll Smith Jr.] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> Presidential candidate and senator Charles Carroll is assassinated at the Space Needle in Seattle at the beginning of this movie, which was based on a novel by Loren Singer. For 10 points each:
Name this 1974 Alan J. Pakula film in which the Warren Beatty–portrayed reporter Joe Frady investigates a series of political assassinations carried out by the title corporation.
Two years after The Parallax View, Pakula concluded his “paranoia trilogy” with this film adaptation of a nonfiction book by Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward, who were played in it by Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman.
The first film in Pakula’s “paranoia trilogy,” Klute, stars this actor as the title detective. He played the patriarch Calvin Jarrett in Ordinary People and starred opposite Julie Christie in Don’t Look Now.
The Parallax View
All the President’s Men
Donald Sutherland [or Donald McNichol Sutherland] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> In October 2017, modders discovered that a misspelling of the word “tether” in this game’s .ini (I-N-I) file likely caused some of the issues with its incredibly bad AI. For 10 points each:
Name this widely panned 2013 game in which the player character, Christopher Winter, is part of a group sent from the Sephora to search for survivors on the USS Sulaco.
Aliens: Colonial Marines was developed by this company founded in part by Randy Pitchford. It was forced to lay off a number of employees when Sega briefly canceled Colonial Marines after it was revealed that this company had been shifting resources from that game to Duke Nukem Forever.
Gearbox’s most prominent original property is this series of space western–themed open-world FPSes, in which players control a Vault Hunter exploring the world of Pandora.
Aliens: Colonial Marines [prompt on partial answers]
Gearbox Software
Borderlands &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> The lead actor on this TV show suffered an aneurysm and a series of strokes during its fourth season, leading to an episode about the producers of this TV show trying to find the actor and another in which the main character is turned into a pig. For 10 points each:
Name this TV show that starred Kevin Sorbo as a hero from Greek myth and that spun-off Xena: Warrior Princess.
The second episode of Hercules featured a Cyclops played by Richard Moll, who had earlier appeared as the bailiff Bull Shannon on this TV show.
Kevin Sorbo’s famous line of “Disappointed!” was not due to him misreading the script but rather was a reference to this film, in which Kevin Kline’s character says the same line.
Hercules: The Legendary Journeys
Night Court
A Fish Called Wanda &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> In 2016, a representative for this man denied that this man had partied with Bonzi Wells at Mary’s Club in Portland while wearing a Shawn Kemp jersey and drunkenly repeating the words “my neck, my back.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who resigned his highest athletic post after an extended power struggle with Tom Jurich.
Papa John is a former member of the athletic board and board of trustees at this university, where he also feuded with basketball coach Rick Pitino.
An infamous photo of an apparently drunk Papa John holding himself up between two other Louisville fans was snapped in the wake of Louisville’s since-vacated 2013 national championship victory over this team, coached then and now by John Beilein.
Papa John [or John H. Schnatter; prompt on “John”]
University of Louisville [or U of L]
University of Michigan men’s basketball team [or UMich; prompt on “UM” or “U of M”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> Nineteen-year-old Arizona State student John Fassold made a video of “how EVERY” song by this group is written, which involved picking three chords and then writing lyrics “about how hard it is being white and in love.” For 10 points each:
Name this band that has been dubbed the Nickelback of EDM because it produces terrible music, such as the song “Closer.”
In the video, Fassold explains how, “if you can’t think of anything to write about,” you can just use a map to come up with a subject, possibly explaining the subject of this Chainsmokers song with lyrics about getting “away from your parents.”
Fassold uses random objects in his room, including Tide laundry detergent and a product from this company, to make up other Chainsmoker songs. The Skrillex and Diplo duo Jack Ü featured 2 Chainz on a song named for this Procter and Gamble brand.
The Chainsmokers
“Paris”
Febreze &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> The primary subject of this documentary insults the acting talents of Keanu Reeves and Ethan Hawke before repeatedly mispronouncing Kenneth Branagh’s name, hanging up the phone, and calling Branagh a “cunt.” For 10 points each:
Name this 2003 documentary about onetime bartender Troy Duffy, who eventually directs an independently released cult movie and earns a record contract from Atlantic for his band, the Brood, despite his massive ego.
Overnight chronicles the filming of this movie, whose poster is beloved by college freshmen everywhere, in which an FBI agent played by Willem Defoe tries to track down two Irish brothers going on a vigilante spree through Boston.
Besides Duffy’s ego, the primary antagonist of Overnight is this film producer at Miramax, who puts The Boondock Saints in turnaround after Duffy insults half of Hollywood. He was the producer of the films Shakespeare in Love and Pulp Fiction.
Overnight
The Boondock Saints
Harvey Weinstein [prompt on “Weinstein”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> The fact that a man with this surname is “roughly 40 years old” is used to estimate the chance of that man and another person using Snapchat at “1.44%.” For 10 points each:
Give this surname of people who are criticized in Spencer Nusbaum’s “in-depth analysis” for “arrogantly gloat[ing]” in a “malicious move” that does not “express their enjoyment” but instead “improves[s] their position in the social hierarchy that undoubtedly consumes [them].”
The line “the Andersons got tickets to the game?!” was referenced in a postgame interview by this guard, who won the 2006 Finals MVP and later teamed up with LeBron James, all while playing for the Miami Heat.
K. J. Middlebrooks, who plays the incredulous dad in the commercial, acted out the “Andersons got tickets to the game” bit on a Celtics pregame show with this former player, a benchwarmer sometimes called “White Mamba.”
Anderson [accept the Andersons]
Dwyane Wade [or Dwyane Tyrone Wade Jr.]
Brian Scalabrine [or Brian David Scalabrine] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> In 2009, this artist released the solo album <em>Phrazes for the Young</em>, which included a bonus track of “I Wish It Was Christmas Today.” For 10 points each:
Name this performer who sang, “Everyone was wearing fingerless gloves,” and, “I saw a Spanish guy doing the Bartman,” as the featured artist on the Lonely Island song “Boombox.”
Casablancas is more notable as the lead singer for this American rock band behind the songs “Last Nite” and “Someday” on the album Is This It.
Although the original album cover for Is This It showed a black-gloved hand on a bare bottom, the cover was changed for the American release to instead show a subatomic particle collision in one of these devices, which were invented by Donald A. Glaser.
Julian Fernando Casablancas
The Strokes
bubble chambers [or Big European Bubble Chamber] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> A 2014 article on <em>ScreenCrush</em> explains how this practice “is ruining Hollywood blockbusters.” For 10 points each:
Identify this practice that was used as a money grab for movies with such subtitles as Breaking Dawn and Mockingjay.
The trend started with the 2010 and 2011 releases of adaptations of this work. More than eleven million copies of this book were sold within 24 hours of its release.
Splitting Allegiant, the final book in the Divergent series, into two parts backfired for Lionsgate, as this planned final film was scrapped after the poor box office performance of the first part. Shailene Woodley left the franchise when it was announced this final entry in the series might instead become a TV movie or show.
splitting the final part of a series into two movies [accept equivalent answers mentioning making two movies instead of one]
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Ascendant &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> This man is one of three catchers to have three consecutive seasons in which he batted .300 (“300”) and drove in 100 runs, and in the middle season, he won the 1976 AL MVP award. For 10 points each:
Name this catcher who died in a 1979 plane crash.
Munson was the first team captain of the Yankees since this first baseman, who said he considered himself “the luckiest man on the face of this Earth” after retiring due to ALS.
After Munson’s death, he was replaced by this backup catcher. In 2018, he replaced Ron Gardenhire as the Diamondbacks’ bench coach, and he previously managed the Rangers in 2002 and the Reds from 2005 to 2007.
Thurman Munson [or Thurman Lee Munson]
Lou Gehrig [or Henry Louis Gehrig; or Heinrich Ludwig Gehrig]
Jerry Narron [or Jerry Austin Narron] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> A menacing scene in this film begins with the protagonist taking a shot at a house party, after which a pale-faced “Mystery Man” played by Robert Blake comes up and says, “We’ve met before, haven’t we?” For 10 points each:
Name this 1997 film in which that scene culminates in the protagonist, the Bill Pullman–played Fred, dialing his home phone number and speaking to the Mystery Man, who seems to be both at the party and at Fred’s house.
Lost Highway is a film directed by this man, whose other films include Inland Empire and Blue Velvet.
Lost Highway was turned into an opera with a libretto written by this author. This writer’s novel The Piano Teacher was adapted into a 2001 Michael Haneke film.
Lost Highway
David Lynch [or David Keith Lynch]
Elfriede Jelinek &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> In Japan, the first game in this series was released in “Replicant” and “Gestalt” versions, in which the player character is respectively the father or brother of Yonah, a victim of a disease called the Black Scrawl. For 10 points each:
Name this series of games directed by Yoko Taro. Its most recent entry, which was developed by Platinum Games, centers on the female android 2B and is subtitled “Automata.”
The Nier games are themselves a spin-off of this earlier series set in the world of Midgard. It was originally developed by Cavia as a combination of gameplay elements of the Ace Combat and Dynasty Warriors games.
The Nier and Drakengard games have all been published in Japan and North America by this company, which formed from a merger between the developers of the Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy Games.
Nier (“near”) [accept Nier: Replicant or Nier: Gestalt or Nier: Automata]
Drakengard [or Drag-on Dragoon]
Square Enix Holdings Co., Ltd. [prompt on “Square” or “Enix”] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> Answer the following about the top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart . . . from November 3, 1979, for 10 points each.
At number one was this synth-pop hit by English musician Robin Scott’s project M. Its chorus lists “New York, London, Paris, Munich” before declaring, “Everybody talk about” the title subject.
Number three that week was “Dim All the Lights,” the third single from this American disco artist’s album Bad Girls. Giorgio Moroder produced many of this woman’s disco hits, including “Last Dance,” “I Feel Love,” and “Love to Love You Baby.”
In lieu of asking about the terrible Eagles song at number two, we’ll instead have you identify this song at number six, which was the first track on Michael Jackson’s album Off the Wall. It tells listeners to “keep on with the force” before providing the title advice.
“Pop Muzik”
Donna Summer [or LaDonna Adrian Gaines]
“Don’t Stop ’Til You Get Enough” &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> In 2012, this man’s emails were intercepted by the Supreme Council of the Revolution, revealing that he kept an iTunes account under a false name and New York address and sent the Blake Shelton song “God Gave Me You” to his wife, Asma, a day after the shelling of Homs began. For 10 points each:
Name this world leader who is a big fan of Phil Collins, Kenny G., Yanni, and the Eagles according to David Lesch’s book The New Lion of Damascus.
Lesch also claimed that Assad’s favorite western group was this band and that Assad owns every one of their albums, presumably including Out of the Blue, A New World Record, and Xanadu.
Emails show that, in January 2012, Assad ordered this number-one hit, whose music video ends with a parody of the “Thriller” video in which Shuffle Bot leaves with a group of girls before turning its head back to the camera.
Bashar al-Assad [or Bashar Hafez al-Assad; or Bassar Hafiz al-’Asad]
ELO [or Electric Light Orchestra]
“Sexy and I Know It” [by LMFAO] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> This explanation was given for a penalty on a defensive player incorrectly identified as “number 99” and was accompanied by the referee making punching motions with his right arm. For 10 points each:
Give a reasonable approximation of referee Ben Dreith’s explanation for Jets tackle Marty Lyons’s 15-yard personal foul penalty for punching quarterback Jim Kelly while both players were on the ground.
Kelly was a Hall of Fame quarterback who spent the entirety of his NFL career with this team in upstate New York.
College referee Ron Cherry used the phrase “he was giving ‘em the business” to explain a 15-yard personal foul on “number 69” in a game between Maryland and this ACC team, the alma mater of Phillip Rivers.
he’s giving him the business down there [accept answers containing business and forms of the word give; prompt on answers mentioning only “business”]
Buffalo Bills [accept either underlined portion]
North Carolina State University [or NC State; or NCSU; accept Wolfpack] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> An Adult Swim TV show with this name starred Slink Johnson as the title character, who lives in Compton. For 10 points each:
Identify this title that was also used for the second episode of Good Times, in which Ned the Wino serves as the model for the title painting.
This member of the Evans family creates the painting of Black Jesus, and this character’s real-world popularity caused Esther Rolle to become upset with the direction of Good Times and leave the show for its fifth season.
J.J. became immediately popular with audiences thanks to this catchphrase, which he used frequently.
Black Jesus
J.J. [or Junior; or James Evans Jr.]
“dyn-o-mite” [do not accept “dynamite”] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> This film was virtually unknown before 1992, when it was screened at the Telluride Film Festival, reviving interest in its elaborate tracking shots, such as one near the beginning in which the camera descends from a rooftop party, to a poolside, and eventually into the water with the aid of a camera dipped in submarine periscope cleaner. For 10 points each:
Name this 1964 film directed by Mikhail Kalatozov in which another notable tracking shot follows a funeral procession, after which the camera ascends four stories and enters a cigar production line before seeming to float above the street.
This codirector of the 1992 Telluride Film Festival revived interest in Soy Cuba. Chilean director Raúl Ruiz adapted this Cuban author’s novel Three Trapped Tigers for the big screen.
This director worked with Francis Ford Coppola and Milestone Films to rerelease Soy Cuba in the 1990s, a decade in which he also directed Casino and Goodfellas.
Soy Cuba [or I Am Cuba; or Ya Kuba]
Guillermo Cabrera Infante [prompt on “Cabrera” or “Infante”]
Martin Scorsese [or Martin Charles Scorsese] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> With Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding, this skater completed an American sweep of the 1991 World Figure Skating Championships. For 10 points each:
Name this skater who won the Ladies’ singles gold medal at the 1992 Olympics before turning professional.
Yamaguchi finished second to Harding at the 1991 U.S. Figure Skating Championships thanks to Harding becoming the first American woman to land this difficult jump in competition.
This Japanese skater and 1989 world champion was the first woman to land a triple Axel in competition, and, at age twelve, she was the first woman to land a triple-triple combination.
Kristi Tsuya Yamaguchi
triple Axel
Midori Ito &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> Michael Dolan argued that this group of films reveals the “psychological profile” of a man who “thinks of himself as a smooth operator who sticks to the beaten track but also has a secret wild life” and shows that man to be a “hopeless Anglophile.” For 10 points each:
That Dolan article in the Washington City Paper focused on what group of films, including First Monday in October, which Dolan notes is thematically appropriate because of the job that characters played by Jill Clayburgh and Walter Matthau are performing as they fall for each other?
Dolan wrote that Bork’s preference for the “snappy patter, stiff upper lips, and impeccable manners of mainstream British cinema” is shown in his history of renting several of this director’s films, including North by Northwest.
Among the repeat rentals by Bork was this Robert Hamer film in which Alec Guinness plays nine members of the D’Ascoyne family.
films that Robert Bork rented [accept any answer mentioning Robert Bork and rental history or similar; prompt on less-specific answers mentioning “Robert Bork”]
Alfred Hitchcock [or Alfred Joseph Hitchcock]
Kind Hearts and Coronets &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> Fyvush Finkel won an Emmy for Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for his role as the lawyer Douglas Wambaugh on this TV show. For 10 points each:
Name this TV show that focused on the residents of Rome, Wisconsin, including the town’s sheriff, Jimmy Brock.
Jimmy Brock was played by this actor, who had earlier appeared on six episodes of Cheers as Evan Drake, Rebecca Howe’s boss during the show’s sixth season.
Characters with this position in Rome often meet terrible fates, including spontaneous combustion and decapitation. On a short-lived ABC sitcom, Brandon Michael Hall played Courtney Rose, a rapper who accidentally wins this role when he becomes a candidate just so he can advertise his music.
Picket Fences
Tom Skerritt [or Thomas Roy Skerritt]
mayors [or The Mayor] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> This is the title of a Rock Mafia song on the <em>FIFA 13</em> soundtrack claiming that, “for those who tread lightly, who need some enlightenment, the world is what you make of it. You fill it up and break it.” For 10 points each:
Give this name of N.E.R.D.’s second studio album and a track from that album that contrasts this three-word phrase with “sink or swim.”
N.E.R.D.’s members are Chad Hugo and this man, who graced the Despicable Me 2 soundtrack with his megahit “Happy.”
The N.E.R.D. album Fly or Die contains the track “Maybe,” which was sampled in a non-album track released with this artist’s debut album, Food and Liquor, as the B side to this man’s Pharrell-produced single “I Gotcha.”
“Fly or Die”
Pharrell Williams [accept either underlined portion; or Pharrell Lanscilo Williams]
Lupe Fiasco [or Wasalu Muhammad Jaco] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> André Spicer’s book <em>Business Bullshit</em> traces the origin of corporatespeak to this company’s efforts to train their workforce amid 1980s deregulation by hiring an acolyte of the Russian mystic George Gurdjieff. For 10 points each:
Name this since-absorbed utility company that hired Charles Krone to undertake that program of new-age training, which was derisively called “Kroning,” at the cost of tens of millions of dollars.
Pac Bell employee Scott Adams mocked Kroning by creating this comic strip, in which the title hapless cubicle denizen is forced to put up with the corporatespeak of his “Pointy-Headed Boss.”
Under John Birt, this public corporation restructured itself around a complex “internal market” on which a burgeoning force of accountants managed the trading of tasks, such as toilet cleaning. Its management was satirized in the TV program W1A, in which a consultant suggests ditching its image as a doting “Auntie” by rebranding as “the stepmum you always wish you had rather than the stepmum you ended up with.”
Pac Bell [or Pacific Bell Telephone Company]
Dilbert
BBC [or British Broadcasting Corporation] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> The comic “The Son of the Sun” was the first issue in which Don Rosa took over a storyline created by this man. For 10 points each:
Identify this artist who, during his anonymous work-for-hire years, signed many of his comics with a sketch of a dog in reference to his name.
Barks first came to prominence as the anonymous “Good Duck Artist” for Disney who created this miserly uncle of Donald Duck; he is fond of diving into vaults of gold coins.
With Will Eisner and this man, Barks was one of the first three inductees into the Eisner Awards Hall of Fame. This artist played a central role in the creation of the Hulk, the Fantastic Four, and Captain America.
Carl Barks
Scrooge McDuck [accept either underlined portion]
Jack Kirby [or Jacob Kurtzberg] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> This man’s son Richie was a member of the disco group Foxy, whose biggest hit was “Get Off.” For 10 points each:
Name this percussionist who released the 1958 album Dance Mania during the height of his time headlining the Palladium Ballroom.
Puente’s most enduring song is this Latin jazz standard, whose three-word Spanish-language title means “how’s it going” and is followed by the words “mi ritmo,” or “my rhythm.”
“Oye Como Va” was popularized by this Latin rock band, which recorded that song on the 1970 album Abraxas along with a version of Fleetwood Mac’s “Black Magic Woman.”
Tito Puente [or Ernesto Antonio Puente]
“Oye Como Va”
Santana [accept Carlos Santana] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> This TV show featured the Australian butler Paul Hogan working for the supposedly rich bachelor Evan Marriott. For 10 points each:
Name this TV show that eventually revealed to its winner, Zora Andrich, that Marriott was in fact a construction worker.
This TV show’s first season ended with contestant Matt Kennedy Gould asking, “What is going on?” after he discovered that he was actually the show’s only contestant, with everyone else being actors.
This British TV show told its contestants that they were headed to Russia to train as cosmonauts and head into orbit, but, in reality, the contestants were sent to Suffolk and never left Earth.
Joe Millionaire
The Joe Schmo Show
Space Cadets &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> In 2007, three NBA players were swept up in a media firestorm after one of them perpetrated the daring heist of Alexander Martinez’s $190 birthday cake. For 10 points each:
This center, then with the Lakers, swiped the cake, threw it at Martinez, and fled the scene in a limousine. This player was an infamous draft bust after Michael Jordan’s Wizards made him the first prep-to-pro player selected first overall.
The AP reported that Martinez then “confronted [this Lakers forward] about the cake.” After becoming a Kardashian husband, this man suffered a debilitating stroke from supplemental “herbal Viagra” at a Nevada brothel.
The sordid affair began when Martinez posed for a photo with the cake and this Laker big man. Kevin Love once told Dan Le Batard that this Martinique native and Gonzaga alum was the smelliest player in the NBA.
Kwame Brown [or Kwame James Brown]
Lamar Odom [or Lamar Joseph Odom]
Ronny Turiaf &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>9.</strong> In <em>Grand Theft Auto III</em>, the player character meets Joey Leone after picking up his favorite prostitute in a mission whose title is a reference to this movie. For 10 points each:
Name this 1971 film in which a radio DJ played by Clint Eastwood begins a relationship with an increasingly obsessive woman named Evelyn, who often calls in to request a particular jazz standard.
Evelyn is also obsessed with this Edgar Allan Poe poem, briefly using its title character’s name as an alias. It describes events “many and many a year ago, in a kingdom by the sea.”
Evelyn is played by this actress, who also played Scott Stoddard’s wife, Pat, in Grand Prix and voiced Fran Sinclair on Dinosaurs.
Play Misty for Me (The mission is called “Drive Misty for Me.”)
“Annabel Lee”
Jessica Walter &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> Along with Kyle Secor, this actor appeared in a crossover episode of <em>Law and Order</em> in which his character travels to New York City to investigate a subway explosion. For 10 points each:
Name this actor who came to prominence while playing the detective Frank Pembleton, who was based on the actual Baltimore detective Harry Edgerton.
Frank Pembleton was a character on this TV show, which was based on a David Simon book subtitled “A Year on the Killing Streets.”
Pembleton dislikes this racist character after Pembleton is called “Sambo” by him. This character unexpectedly becomes a captain due to internal politics, and he is revealed to be the “Lunch Bandit” in the episode “The Documentary.”
Andre Keith Braugher
Homicide: Life on the Street
Roger Gaffney [accept either] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> Following the 2018 playoff game between the Titans and Chiefs, Mike Pereira bashed this referee and his crew for, among other things, wrongly announcing the reason that Marcus Mariota was an eligible receiver when he caught a touchdown pass from himself. For 10 points each:
Name this recently retired NFL referee, considered the worst in football, whose career lowlights included blinding offensive tackle Orlando Brown with an errantly thrown penalty flag.
In 2013, despite a video review, Triplette’s crew mistakenly awarded a touchdown to this Bengals running back, who had a 1,000-yard season with the Patriots in 2010, two years after signing with the Pats as an undrafted free agent. Wikipedia explains his nickname of “The Law Firm” as stemming from his “multipart name.”
Triplette will spend 2018 as a rules analyst for this long-running prime-time NFL program, which airs during the workweek on ESPN.
Jeff Triplette
BenJarvus Green-Ellis [or BenJarvus Jeremy Green-Ellis]
Monday Night Football [accept MNF] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> This character, who is unlockable in <em>Mario Kart DS</em>, is also playable in <em>Super Smash Bros. Brawl</em>, in which his neutral special move is shooting a beam from between his eyes. For 10 points each:
Name this Nintendo character who originated as an automaton peripheral for the NES that would move along with the game, although only two games supported the function.
R.O.B. was the inspiration for ROB 64, who often tells the player, “Location confirmed; sending supplies,” in the N64 entry in this video game series.
One of the two NES games to take advantage of R.O.B. functionality was this one, in which R.O.B. helps Professor Vector move namesake objects while avoiding Smicks.
R.O.B. [or Robotic Operating Buddy; or Famicom Robot; or Family Computer Robot; prompt on “Robot”]
Star Fox [accept Star Fox 64]
Gyromite &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> After this 18-year veteran and team captain won the Stanley Cup, he grabbed the Cup from Commissioner Gary Bettman before Bettman could finish speaking. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian center who was hired in May 2018 as the head coach for the team he once captained, which he led to victory in the 2006 Stanley Cup over the Oilers.
Brind’Amour is the former captain and current head coach of this NHL franchise, which was once the Hartford Whalers and now plays at PNC Arena in Raleigh.
Five years before Brind’Amour hoisted the Cup, this Avalanche player, a long-suffering Bruins captain and career leader in goals and assists for a defenseman, won his first Stanley Cup in his 21st year in the league and promptly retired.
Rod Brind’Amour [or Roderic Jean Brind’Amour]
Carolina Hurricanes [accept either underlined portion]
Ray Bourque [or Raymond Jean Bourque] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>13.</strong> James Valentine said that this album could possibly reclaim a term “for the good side” after his band found out the term was used by men’s rights activists. For 10 points each:
Name this 2017 album that got its title from a scene in The Matrix.
Red Pill Blues was the sixth studio album by this band, which is fronted by Adam Levine. This band’s album Songs about Jane included the songs “This Love” and “She Will Be Loved.”
The music video for the Red Pill Blues song “Don’t Wanna Know” features Levine as a character being chased by people on their phones, likely a reference to this game.
Red Pill Blues
Maroon 5
Pokémon GO &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> In the pilot of this show, a recent arrival from Minnesota named Lori, who is played by Emily Meade, is recruited by a pimp named C.C. to be a prostitute. For 10 points each:
In the pilot of what show does the bartender Vinnie Martino sleaze up Mr. Kim’s Korean restaurant in Times Square, setting in motion a complex plot involving New York City’s underworld?
The Deuce was created by David Simon and George Pelecanos, who previously collaborated on this HBO show whose characters include the Baltimore police officer Jimmy McNulty and the drug dealer Stringer Bell.
The Deuce explores New York’s gay nightlife through the character of Paul Hendrickson, played by this actor who also portrayed the ProPublica reporter L. P. Everett in Simon’s series Treme and Terminus resident Martin on The Walking Dead.
The Deuce
The Wire
Chris Coy [or Christopher James Coy] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> Answer the following about Paul Schrader, for 10 points each.
Schrader directed and, with his brother, cowrote a biographical film about this author, showing “a life in four chapters.” That movie includes a dramatization of this author’s novel Kyoko’s House.
Schrader scored a critical hit with this recent film set in upstate New York. It stars Ethan Hawke as Reverend Ernst Toller.
Schrader received less critical acclaim for his direction of The Canyons, which starred Lindsay Lohan and this actor. More recent credits for this actor include Anal Savages 2 and Canadian Sex Trip 2.
Yukio Mishima [accept Kimitake Hiraoka in either order]
First Reformed
James Deen [or Bryan Matthew Sevilla] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> On the second season of this TV show, Donna and Cameron create a gaming company called Mutiny. For 10 points each:
Name this AMC TV show that started with the arrival of Joe MacMillan at Cardiff Electric, where he began work on reverse engineering the IBM personal computer.
This actress played Donna Clark on Halt and Catch Fire. She played Lucy Bennett, the new narrator, on the final season of Scrubs.
Bishé played the wife of the money-laundering banker Franklin Jurado on the third season of this Netflix show, in which her character is in contact with the DEA.
Halt and Catch Fire
Kerry Lynne Bishé
Narcos &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> In October 2017, Marc Normandin wrote for <em>SBNation</em> that Tim McClellan should have called this player out because Michael Barrett had successfully blocked the plate in a game that occurred ten years earlier. For 10 points each:
Name this outfielder who smashed his head into the ground while sliding and scoring the winning run in the 13th inning of a game-163 tiebreaker against the Padres in 2007.
Holliday was then with this National League team. After winning game 163, they swept through the division series and NLCS before being swept in the 2007 World Series.
The Rockies lost the 2007 World Series to this AL East team, which won its second World Series in four years after enduring an 86-year “curse.”
Matt Holliday [or Matthew Thomas Holliday]
Colorado Rockies [accept either underlined portion]
Boston Red Sox [accept either underlined portion; prompt on “Sox”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> Answer the following about games developed by the Japanese company Level-5, for 10 points each:
Their most successful property is a series of charming puzzle games, beginning with one set in a “Curious Village,” starring this top hat–wearing mystery-solver and his protégé Luke Triton.
Studio Ghibli produced the cutscenes for Dominion of the Dark Djinn and its expanded version Wrath of the White Witch, the first two games in this RPG series whose title literally translates as “The Second Country.” Its latest game, Revenant Kingdom, was released in 2018.
A junior-high goalkeeper named either Mamoru Endo or Mark Evans stars in the first two games of this hybrid RPG-sports series, which is named for a legendary soccer team.
Professer Herschel Layton [accept either underlined portion]
Ni no Kuni [accept answers that append any of the subtitles mentioned in the question]
Inazuma Eleven [or Inazuma Irebun] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> This film’s director starred as a small-time filmmaker who, when hired to make a documentary about his Alan Alda–played brother-in-law, produces a film that enrages Alda’s character by juxtaposing him against footage of Benito Mussolini. For 10 points each:
Name this 1989 film whose director, Woody Allen, plays Clifford Stern, who is using that project to finance a film about philosopher Louis Levy, played by NYU psychologist Martin Bergmann.
Bergmann had a minor role in this 1993 Steven Spielberg film in which Liam Neeson plays an industrialist who saves Jews from the Holocaust.
Bergmann contributed to this four-part 2002 Adam Curtis documentary that focuses on how the theories of Sigmund Freud have created an individualistic ethos in mass culture.
Crimes and Misdemeanors
Schindler’s List
The Century of the Self &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>1.</strong> This song, which was written for a 1930 musical film starring Harry Richman, was, according to Robert Kimball and Linda Emmet, the first song sung on screen by an interracial ensemble. For 10 points each:
Name this song that was revived in synth-pop form in the 1980s by the Dutch one-hit wonder Taco, who deadpanned its then outdated lyrics, such as “dressed up like a million-dollar trooper, trying hard to look like Gary Cooper.”
“Puttin’ on the Ritz” was written by this American songwriter of Russian Jewish origin, whose other standards include “There’s No Business like Show Business” and “White Christmas.”
A chorus of men dressed like Fred Astaire are led by the actual Astaire in a rendition of “Puttin’ on the Ritz” in this Berlin musical film, which itself was titled for a song that first appeared in the musical Betsy and was also featured in The Jazz Singer.
“Puttin’ on the Ritz”
Irving Berlin [or Israel Berlin]
Blue Skies [accept “Blue Skies”] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>4.</strong> This Delphine Software game, which featured hand-drawn backgrounds and rotoscoped animation similar to Delphine’s previous game <em>Another World</em>, was apparently included in the <em>Guinness Book of World Records</em> as the best-selling French game of all time. For 10 points each:
Name this 1992 game whose amnesiac protagonist, Conrad Hart, wins the game show Death Tower to acquire passage from Titan to Earth and then destroys the home planet of a species of aliens called Morphs.
One of the earliest entries on the Let’s Play Archive is a runthrough of Flashback by this developer of the Chzo Mythos games, who is likely more famous as the host of the internet series Zero Punctuation.
Flashback’s rotoscoping technique was developed separately from the one designed by Jordan Mechner for the first game in this series of platformers set in the ancient Near East. A later entry, The Sands of Time, was made into a film starring Jake Gyllenhaal.
Flashback: The Quest for Identity
Ben “Yahtzee” Croshaw [accept either underlined portion]
Prince of Persia &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> <em>National Review</em> somewhat inexplicably listed this song as number 20 on its list of “conservative rock songs,” noting that Clear Channel put it on the “do not play” list after 9/11 because of its “provocative” lyrics. For 10 points each:
Name this song that describes such images as a “muezzin” standing “on the radiator grille” and “the prophet” banning “that boogie sound.”
Number five on the National Review list is the allegedly “pro-abstinence and pro-marriage” song “Wouldn’t It Be Nice,” which was released on this group’s album Pet Sounds.
In listing this song, National Review noted, “Before there was Rush Limbaugh, there was Rush, a Canadian band whose lyrics are often libertarian.” According to the list, this song’s reference to “hatchet, axe, and saw” indicates that “equal rights become equal outcomes” in nature.
“Rock the Casbah”
The Beach Boys
“The Trees” &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> Near the end of this film, a group of people, including a man nicknamed “Tintin,” the electronics hobbyist Roy Harley, make a futile journey to find a battery. For 10 points each:
Name this 1993 film based on a 1974 book of the same title by Pies Paul Read.
Alive tells the true story of a plane crash involving the Uruguayan national team in this sport. The Morgan Freeman film Invictus profiles the South African national team’s surprising success in this sport’s 1995 World Cup following the dismantling of apartheid.
This 2005 MTV documentary profiles a group of competitors who play wheelchair rugby.
Alive
rugby union
Murderball &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> A singer’s 2017 kidney transplant from actress Francia Raisa was part of the evidence used to promote this theory. For 10 points each:
Identify this theory that was mostly debunked by the fact that Andrew Watt and others were largely responsible for writing a particular song before its singer knew about it, even if the title of the song can be translated into the name of a chronic disease.
“Wolves” was a hit song for this singer, who has lupus. She was likely referencing her breakup with Justin Bieber in her 2014 hit, “The Heart Wants What It Wants.”
“Wolves” was a collaboration between Gomez and this producer, who has gotten into a number of feuds with deadmau5 (“dead mouse”).
“Wolves” is about lupus [accept equivalent answers or answers that include the answer to the second part of the bonus]
Selena Marie Gomez
Marshmello [or Christopher Comstock] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> Jack Palance played boxer Mountain McClintock in this television show’s second episode, “Requiem for a Heavyweight,” which aired in 1956. For 10 points each:
Name this CBS show that ran for four seasons and was named to highlight that its weekly running time was longer than that of other television drama anthologies.
The first two episodes of Playhouse 90 were written by this man, who later created the TV shows The Twilight Zone and Night Gallery.
Playhouse 90’s first episode, “Forbidden Area,” starred this actor as Colonel Jesse Price. This man also starred in a 1956 film directed by Cecil B. DeMille.
Playhouse 90
Rod Serling [or Rodman Edward Serling]
Charlton Heston [or John Charles Carter] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> As of June 9, 2018, this outfielder was the most recent MLB player to record six hits in a nine-inning game. For 10 points each:
Name this center fielder who was featured on a prescient 2014 Sports Illustrated cover predicting that his then terrible team would win the 2017 World Series.
In 2017, Springer was named World Series MVP after leading this AL team to a victory over the Dodgers.
Springer began the 2018 season with a leadoff home run on Opening Day against this pitcher who, with Madison Bumgarner, is one of two active World Series MVPs who are pitchers.
George Springer [George Chelston Springer III]
Houston Astros [accept either underlined portion]
Cole Hamels [or Colbert Michael Hamels] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> This figure is contrasted with a dour personage who is in a “bad mood,” is “always rude,” and “spaz[zes] in the news.” For 10 points each:
Identify this figure who the performer “misses” and describes as “straight from the go,” “chop up the soul,” and “set on his goals” in a track from the album The Life of Pablo.
Several reviewers claimed that this 2018 album that contains the single “Yikes” marks a return to the “Old Kanye.”
Between The Life of Pablo and Ye, Kanye announced that his new album would have this title, in honor of a gaming console that featured the Hudson Soft shoot ’em up Blazing Lazers.
the Old Kanye [prompt on “Kanye West”]
Ye
TurboGrafx 16 &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> Prior to 2002, the last two active athletes to accomplish this feat were Ron Reed and Danny Ainge. For 10 points each:
Describe this feat that has been accomplished by only twelve athletes. Other athletes to have accomplished this feat include Hall of Famer Dave DeBusschere (deh-boo-SHEER), NL MVP Dick Groat, and TV star Chuck Connors, but notably not Michael Jordan.
The most recent athlete to play in both the NBA and MLB was this six-foot-nine power forward and left-handed pitcher, who pitched for nine seasons for the Jays, Rays, Dodgers, Marlins, and Orioles in the 2000s after playing for four NBA teams from 1996 to 2000.
The only player to win both an NBA and MLB championship, Gene Conley, did so for the Milwaukee Braves and this NBA team, where his teammates included K. C. Jones and Bill Russell.
playing in both the MLB and NBA [accept equivalents involving MLB and NBA or Major League Baseball and National Basketball Association; prompt on more general answers such as “being both a professional basketball and baseball player”; do not accept or prompt on incomplete answers]
Mark Hendrickson [or Mark Allan Hendrickson]
Boston Celtics [accept either] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>17.</strong> A letter to the <em>New York Times Book Review</em> in October 1979 claimed that this phrase was coined by Harvard student Robert Falk as the title of a song by his new-wave band Supreme Pontiff. For 10 points each:
Name this three-word phrase that, in The Simpsons, appears on a poster on Nelson’s wall, which Nelson explains with the logic “gotta nuke somethin’.”
The “Save the Whales” campaign was founded in 1977 based in part on the work of Roger Payne, who discovered whale songs and encouraged this singer to incorporate them into her music, which she did in “Farewell to Tarwathie” from her album Whales and Nightingales. Her album Judith contains her cover of Stephen Sondheim’s “Send in the Clowns.”
Whale songs were included on this compilation, whose contents were selected by a committee led by Carl Sagan and also include Glenn Gould’s interpretations of Bach and Chuck Berry’s “Johnny B. Goode.” It was fired into space on both Voyager probes.
“nuke the whales”
Judy Collins [or Judith Marjorie Collins]
Voyager Golden Record &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> In one film, a member of this family shoots Alec Baldwin to death and is kicked off a theater balcony onto a German diplomat’s spiked helmet, revealing him to be a giant space cockroach. For 10 points each:
Name this family. A graphic novel examining the legacy of another member of this family was slated to be adapted into a Gore Verbinski film starring Steve Carell but was shelved during a 2014 hacking incident.
James Franco and Seth Rogen starred as journalists recruited by the CIA to assassinate Kim Jong-un in this 2014 comedy, which was not released in theaters amidst protest from the North Korean government.
In 1978, this South Korean director of A Flower in Hell was kidnapped following the kidnapping of his former wife, Choi Eun-hee, both on the orders of Kim Jong-il. While coerced to create films during his North Korean captivity, he directed the monster film Pulgasari.
Kim family [accept Kim Jong-il or Kim Il-sung]
The Interview
Shin Sang-ok [or Shin Tae-seo] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> An <em>A.V. Club</em> article covering an episode of this TV show raised the interesting point of how a family using an EBT card could afford a bulletproof vest for their young son. For 10 points each:
Identify this TV show that used the Al-Harazi family to talk about Islamophobia in an episode titled “Go Cubs.”
This member of the Conner family, played by John Goodman, was revealed in Roseanne’s ninth season to have died in its eighth season before being revived along with the show for its tenth season.
On the tenth season of Roseanne, Andrea, a rich woman played by this actress, plans to use Becky as a surrogate mother because of their close physical resemblance.
Roseanne
Daniel Conner
Sarah Chalke &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> This club was the subject of the trending Twitter acronym “SchleNaZ” when it barely staved off relegation in 2014. For 10 points each:
Name this soccer club whose fans rioted in May 2018 after it lost its status as the only unrelegated club in Bundesliga history.
When Leo Messi scored his wondergoal in the 2015 Copa del Rey final, the Sky Sports announcers were discussing the fact that this club, FC Barcelona’s opponents in that game, had never been relegated despite their signing policy requiring them to have only Basque players.
The longest unrelegated streak in European soccer, at 120 seasons beginning in 1890, is held by Celtic, a club in this country. Rangers FC, the other club in this country’s “Old Firm” rivalry, was also unrelegated until 2012, a streak that ended because of the club’s insolvency.
Hamburger SV [or Hamburg SV; or HSV; or Hamburger Sport-Verein e.V.]
Athletic Bilbao [or Athletic Club; or Bilboko Athletic Kluba; or Athletic de Bilbao; prompt on “Athletic” or “Bilbao”]
Scotland &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>16.</strong> After doping accusations were made against superstar Dallas Seavey, he posted a video on YouTube claiming that this competition could “try to throw [him] under the bus,” but he doesn’t “fit under the bus.” For 10 points each:
Identify this “Last Great Race on Earth,” which starts in March every year and which Seavey skipped in 2018 to participate in the Finnmarkslopet in Norway.
Some have claimed that Seavey was framed for doping his sled dogs by members of this organization. This animal rights group wants the Iditarod to end.
By going to Norway, Seavey likely missed out on this Anchorage winter festival that runs right before the Iditarod. You can buy bear pelts, caribou antlers, and other things at this festival’s Hide and Horn Auction.
Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race
PETA [or People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals]
Fur Rondy [or Fur Rendezvous Festival] &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>2.</strong> A 1971 Claudia Dreifus article for <em>Rolling Stone</em> traces the origin of a term later taken up by University of Arizona anthropologist William Rathje to an amateur who bemoans the presence of the fecal matter of a dog named Sacha in this man’s refuse. For 10 points each:
The term “garbology” was coined by A. J. Weberman, an obsessive fan who collected the trash of what man?
Weberman was eventually forced to apologize for hounding Dylan by Jerry Rubin, who became a national figure after he and Abbie Hoffman became two of this city’s “eight” in the wake of protests at this city’s 1968 Democratic National Convention.
A book on Bob Dylan’s “essential interviews” includes a 1971 sit-down with Weberman and a very early interview in which Dylan went on this man’s WFMT radio show in 1963. This Chicago-area historian’s The Good War is one of his many oral histories.
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]
Chicago
Studs Terkel [or Louis Terkel] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>5.</strong> In the modern era, the career leader in this statistic is Chris Sale, and the only non-active players in the career top ten are Curt Schilling, Pedro Martinez, Mariano Rivera, and Dan Haren. For 10 points each:
Name this baseball statistic whose single-season record of 11.63 was set in 2014 by Twins pitcher Phil Hughes.
The previous single-season record of 11.0 strikeouts per walk was held by this pitcher, who set the mark in 1994 in his third season with the Mets and who had previously won two Cy Young Awards with the Royals. A movement commonly thought to be named for him is actually named after the Society for American Baseball Research.
In 2016, this pitcher fell 13 innings short of pitching a qualifying season, but his strikeouts per walk of 15.64 would’ve beaten Hughes’s single-season record. Since 2011, this left-handed Dodgers ace has won four ERA titles, three Cy Youngs, and an NL MVP award.
strikeout-to-walk ratio [or strikeouts to walks; or SO/BB; or K/BB]
Bret Saberhagen [or Bret William Saberhagen] (He is not the origin of the term “sabermetrics,” which actually comes from the acronym SABR.)
Clayton Kershaw [or Clayton Edward Kershaw] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>6.</strong> In an interview with Melissa Nathoo, an actor claimed that this tic was “clearly a challenge that a thesbian [sic] would never expect to be confronted with, and yet <em>thank god</em> that I did have the opportunity and the challenge to do it." For 10 points each:
Name this verbal tic that, according to that actor, required James Gunn to produce bifurcated scripts showing all of the emotional context behind a line of dialogue in a separate column.
Vin Diesel said that Kevin Feige pitched him on the idea of playing Groot by referencing Diesel’s voice work as this laconic, animated, fifty-foot-tall, metal-eating robot who titles a 1999 film.
Diesel compared his role as Groot in Guardians of the Galaxy to his role in this 2004 film, in which he claimed that director David Twohy instructed him to avoid interacting with anyone for the whole first act, which picks up after the action from the earlier film Pitch Black.
Groot only saying, “I am Groot” [accept any answer mentioning I am Groot; prompt on less-specific answers such as “Groot saying only one thing”]
Iron Giant [accept The Iron Giant]
The Chronicles of Riddick &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>7.</strong> Answer the following about philosopher-turned-game designer Bennett Foddy, for 10 points each:
Foddy’s most famous game is still almost certainly this notoriously difficult ragdoll-based running simulator, titled for the four keyboard keys used to control the runner’s movement.
The Czech game Sexy Hiking inspired this 2017 effort from Foddy, in which a man stuck in a cauldron uses a sledgehammer to pull himself up a mountain.
Foddy created names for all the rooms in this 2010 Terry Cavanagh game, a platformer in which jumping is replaced by the ability to invert the direction of gravity. In it, Captain Viridian attempts to evacuate the crew of a spaceship.
QWOP
Getting over It with Bennett Foddy
VVVVVV [accept V6 or 6V] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>8.</strong> Babe Pressley and Goose Tatum both fouled out of a game between these two teams, which ended with Marques Haynes dribbling to run down the clock and then passing to Ermer Robinson, who made the game-winning 30-foot shot. For 10 points each:
Name these two teams who faced off in a 1948 exhibition game arranged by their general managers Max Winter and Abe Saperstein. At the time, they were widely considered the best all-black and all-white teams in the country.
The Globetrotters successfully held this six-foot-ten Lakers center scoreless in the second half by double-teaming him. He created a namesake shooting drill to develop his ambidextrous hook shot.
Two years later, three Globetrotters became the first black players in the NBA; one of them, Chuck Cooper, was drafted by this team, where he played alongside fellow rookie Bob Cousy.
Harlem Globetrotters [accept either underlined portion] and Minneapolis Lakers [accept either underlined portion]
George Mikan [or George Lawrence Mikan Jr.]
Boston Celtics [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>10.</strong> In the tenth season, these two characters are forced to take on Chloe Carmichael after a shortage of similar workers, and, in an earlier season, the male member of this pair gives birth to a baby named Poof. For 10 points each:
Name these two fairy godparents for Timmy Turner on The Fairly OddParents. They are subject to Da Rules when granting wishes.
Da Rules are enforced by this husband of the Tooth Fairy and boss of Cosmo and Wanda. This character’s voice and style are likely a parody of Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The Fairly OddParents originated on this Nickelodeon animation showcase, which also premiered the first episodes of the TV show ChalkZone.
Cosmo and Wanda [accept in either order]
Jorgen von Strangle [accept either answer]
Oh Yeah! Cartoons &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>11.</strong> Big Sean raps on this song, “Honestly, I’m way too done with the hoes. I cut off all my exes for your x’s and o’s.” For 10 points each:
Name this song that also features Pharrell Williams and Katy Perry, the latter of whom sings, “Ride drop top and chase thrills. I know you ain’t afraid to pop pills.”
This Scottish DJ released “Feels” as part of his album Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1 in 2017. He found success earlier by writing, producing, and being featured on Rihanna’s “We Found Love.”
In 2010, Calvin Harris created this record label, which is named for the handcrafted sunglasses he made and was once known for wearing.
“Feels”
Calvin Harris [or Adam Richard Wiles]
Fly Eye Records &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>12.</strong> Answer the following about the filmography of Jim Brown, for 10 points each:
In this 1967 film, Brown played R. T. Jefferson, one of a group of convicts sent on a suicide mission to disrupt a meeting of high-ranking German officers during World War II.
Brown played the Marine captain Leslie Anders in this 1968 film, in which a submarine commanded by Rock Hudson’s character is sent to rescue the crew of a British weather installation in the Arctic.
Brown’s character Jim Price wins the election for sheriff over the white incumbent, played by George Kennedy, in this 1970 blaxploitation film set in a small Southern town that, according to the movie’s posters, “turns into a time-bomb.”
The Dirty Dozen
Ice Station Zebra
. . . tick . . . tick . . . tick . . . &lt;Carson&gt;
<strong>14.</strong> This network became the first American network to broadcast a German-language TV show when it aired <em>Deutschland 83</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this network that also aired the Jason Momoa show The Red Road and is associated with a film festival based in Park City, Utah.
Sundance aired this TV show about Daniel Holden, a death row inmate for 19 years who is released after analysis of DNA evidence. This show starred Aden Young and Abigail Spencer.
This Scientologist starred on another Sundance TV show, Top of the Lake, as a detective working in New Zealand and Australia. On another show, this actress played a character who joins Cutler, Gleason, and Chaough (“chow”).
SundanceTV [or Sundance Channel]
Rectify
Elisabeth Singleton Moss &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>15.</strong> Despite leading the league in field goal percentage in 1959, this player retired with the fourth-lowest career field goal percentage in NFL history. For 10 points each:
Name this kicker who sent his team into the “Greatest Game Ever Played,” the 1958 NFL championship against the Colts, by kicking a 49-yard field goal in the swirling snow at Yankee Stadium.
After his playing career, Summerall was a longtime broadcast partner of this former Raiders coach, whose intricate series of “booms” were ported to a namesake series of popular NFL video games.
After Summerall’s 49-yard kick in 1958, this Giants offensive coach incredulously said, “You son of a bitch, you can’t kick it that far!” Summerall’s last game was the 1961 NFL championship, in which this man was the coach of the victorious opposing team.
Pat Summerall [or George Allen Summerall]
John Madden
Vince Lombardi [or Vincent Thomas Lombardi] &lt;Hart&gt;
<strong>18.</strong> This documentary covers the less-than-weeklong creation of “HUMANCENTiPAD,” the premiere episode of a show’s 15th season. For 10 points each:
Name this Arthur Bradford documentary filmed in 2011 that shows the hectic creative process of Trey Parker and Matt Stone.
The documentary shows the creation of an episode of this Comedy Central TV show, which has been on the air since 1997.
At the start of the documentary, Parker and Stone leave the Broadway premiere of this show. Its original cast included Josh Gad and Andrew Rannells.
6 Days to Air: The Making of South Park
South Park
The Book of Mormon &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>19.</strong> A member of this group was earlier the writer of the song “Mr. Boyd/Imagine” while part of Argosy with Elton John. For 10 points each:
Name this English rock group that originally included both Rick Davies and Roger Hodgson, who worked together to produce such hits as “Goodbye Stranger” and “Take the Long Way Home” on the album Breakfast in America.
This highest-charting song from Breakfast in America says to “watch what you say or they’ll be calling you a radical, liberal, fanatical, criminal” and later asks you to “please tell me who I am, who I am, who I am, who I am.”
Supertramp’s first success came with the album Crime of the Century, which included the songs “Dreamer” and this song, which charted in the United States but may have failed to chart in the UK due to its offensive adjective.
Supertramp
“The Logical Song”
“Bloody Well Right” &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>20.</strong> A character in this school reacts to getting sprayed by a red liquid by saying, “Pancake syrup,” although it’s unclear what the difference is between pancake syrup and normal syrup. For 10 points each:
Name this school that allegedly has a bomb planted in a newly delivered refrigerator. It is attended by Zeus Carver’s nephews and is named for the 21st president.
Zeus, played by Samuel L. Jackson, helps John McClane solve a series of riddles in this film, the third in its series.
This brother of Hans Gruber is responsible for the riddles and fake school bomb. This character, played by Jeremy Irons, distracts everyone from his real objective: robbing the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Chester A. Arthur Elementary School [or Chester Alan Arthur]
Die Hard with a Vengeance [prompt on “Die Hard”; do not accept “Die Hard 3”]
Simon Peter Gruber &lt;Gehring&gt;
<strong>3.</strong> After another woman says that her daughter, Catherine, took a long time to be born, this character asks if that woman has “a very narrow vagina” in an episode in which she helps negotiate a Tibetan peace deal. For 10 points each:
Give either the name or elected position of this character, played by Sally Phillips. Her husband, played by Dave Foley, gropes the breast of the title character of the show on which she appears.
Finnish prime minister Minna Häkkinen is a recurring character on this HBO show, which stars Julia Louis-Dreyfus as politician Selina Meyer.
Selina’s visit to Finland is marred by controversy after she sings the lyrics “don’t be European, Ian” and “say, ‘Screw France,’ Lance” in a charity-dinner parody of this Paul Simon song. Selina’s version of this song is titled for strategies “to win in Denver.”
Minna Häkkinen [accept either; or the (former) Prime Minister of Finland or PM of Finland or Finnish Prime Minister or Finnish PM; prompt on “Prime Minister” or “PM”]
Veep
“50 Ways to Leave Your Lover” &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about some perks from the video game, Dead by Daylight, for 10 points each:
If you have played killer on Dead by Daylight, you likely know about this obnoxious survivor perk, which makes the survivor the obsession and allows them to escape from the killer’s grasp once per match.
This licensed killer has great unique perks like Barbecue &amp; Chili and Franklin’s Demise. Like in the film franchise he is from, this killer likes to wildly swing a chainsaw around in order to down survivors in one hit.
The perk Borrowed Time was introduced as a unique perk of this character, a PC-exclusive old army veteran released as part of a cross-promotion with Left 4 Dead.
Decisive Strike
Leatherface
Bill
You made it to bonus 20, congrats! Now answer some bonuses on random dogshit horror movies I have watched on Netflix, for 10 points each:
In Welcome to Willits, a bunch of teens get murdered on a farm growing this crop because drugs are bad. Halloweed’s title is a pun on this crop. Please answer.
In keeping with the recent trend of tech based horror films, this movie sees a siri-like app download itself on a group of friends phones and then kill them using a manifestations of their worst fears, including both clowns and institutional racism.
Dismissed sees this actor play a spoiled kid who attempts to ruin his teacher’s life for refusing to give him an A on every assignment. This actor’s brother currently plays Jughead on the horrifically terrible CW series, Riverdale.
Marijuana [or cannabis, prompt on weed I guess]
Bedeviled
Dylan Sprouse [both names required]
Not all horror comes from movies, books, and TV, so answer the following about spooky side of the Internet, for 10 points each:
This most famous creepypasta character, often depicted as a man in a suit with a blank face, is known to target children and use humans as proxies for his evil deeds. His story was popularized with the Youtube series, Marble Hornets, and a series of namesake games.
This other creepypasta figure is described as a young boy who realized his love of inflicting pain before carving a permanent smile into his face and cutting out his eyelids so as to never sleep.
In this Canadian horror anthology series, a group of would-be killers utilize the namesake website in order to effectively plan and later display their kills. By the end of the series, it is revealed that the site may be alive and watching these killers.
Slender Man [accept The Operator]
Jeff the Killer
Darknet
Answer the following about dangerous moments that occurred during the making of horror films, for 10 points each:
While no actors were actually hurt, an accidental event of this type in Attack of the Killer Tomatoes was later incorporated into the final film and blamed on “kamikaze tomatoes.”
Actress Linda Blair suffered a spinal fracture that later developed into scoliosis while playing the Pazuzu-possessed Regan MacNeil in this classic 1973 film.
In 1993, Brandon Lee died during shoots of this film due to a round accidentally being left in a gun on set. Lee plays title rockstar vigilante, Eric Danven, who seeks revenge on a gang led by T-Bird after the murder of his fiancé.
Helicopter Crash
The Exorcist
The Crow
At the end of this segment, the central creature calls the cameraman “papa” causing that man to break out in manic laughter, for 10 points each:
Name this segment of a larger film, in which a news crew attempts to document an Indonesian cult before the cult commits mass suicide to facilitate the coming of a horned demon that kills them all.
In the segment, “Phase I Clinical Trials,” a man gets an implant to replace this body part, which causes him to see numerous ghosts that end up killing him by ramming the implant down his throat.
Both “Phase I Clinical Trials” and “Safe Haven” are segments that appear in this 2013 horror anthology sequel, whose frame story sees a private investigator watching a series of disturbing videos.
“Safe Haven” [prompt on VHS 2, but do not reveal this]
Eye
VHS 2 [neg 30 if they say VHS Viral]
Film Theory hypothesizes that Heather’s death in this film was actually an elaborate plot by Josh and Mike, rather than caused by the namesake monster, for 10 points each:
Name this 1999 found footage horror film shot in the Black Hills of Maryland, which mostly consists of teenagers screaming in near total darkness. It seems like most people found this movie scary at the time because many believed its footage to be real.
While many credit the repopularization of the found footage genre to Paranormal Activity, a solid argument may be made for this Spanish horror film instead. This film sees a documentary crew quarantined inside a fire station when a rabies-like virus breaks out. Unlike Paranormal Activity, this movie didn’t suck.
I personally like to credit the downfall of the found footage movement to this 2012 film, in which a crew documenting exorcisms in the Vatican become possessed themselves. This movie ends with a sudden car crash and a message to visit their website for more details. Stupid.
The Blair Witch Project
REC
The Devil Inside
Disturbing imagery in this film includes a fox disemboweling itself and telling the protagonist that “chaos reigns” and a bunch of swollen ticks attaching themselves to that character’s hand, for 10 points each:
What 2009 film sees a mother deal with the death of her child, Nic, by often demanding violent sex from her Willem Dafoe-played husband and by later cutting off her clitoris.
Antichrist was directed by this controversial director who also made Melancholia and Nymphomaniac. This director was supposedly only joking when he said he sympathized with Hitler and considered himself to be a Nazi.
The ecumenical jury at this film festival hated Antichrist so much that they gave it an anti-award for promoting misogyny. Despite that, Charlotte Gainsbourg still won Best Actress for the film.
Antichrist
Lars von Trier
Cannes Film Festival
Answer the following about some of the defining films of the recent indie horror craze, for 10 points each:
This 2013 film by Jonathan Glazer was one of the earlier films of the craze. In it, a black featureless alien disguised as Scarlett Johansson lures Scottish men to their deaths for unknown reasons.
This more recent film featured a family of three in a home in the woods, paranoid of both other humans and an unknown, but lethal disease. The family graciously allows another family to live with them, but ends up killing them and succumbing to the sickness.
Both Under the Skin and It Comes at Night were distributed by this company, also responsible for The Witch and Spring Breakers.
Under the Skin
It Comes at Night
A24
Despite the fact that this movie is renowned for its realistic portrayal of time travel, its somber atmosphere greatly disturbed me and so I will consider it a horror film, for 10 points each:
Identify this film in which a group of friends make a box in a warehouse that allows them to travel several hours back in time in order to make profitable stock-market bets.
This 2012 film uses a much less realistic, but equally as fun time loop premise in which a group of teens travel to a cabin in the woods and then for some reason decide to hunt down and kill their previous cycle’s selves within a mine rather than try to warn the next cycle.
In this more recent horror film, a sorority girl wakes up every morning in boy named Carter’s bed and finally discovers that her roommate has been killing her every day out of jealousy for her affair with a teacher.
Primer
Mine Games
Happy Death Day
Viewer beware, you’re in for a scare in this bonus sequence about <em>Goosebumps</em>, for 10 points each:
In “A Shocker on Shock Street,” a group of kids is attacked by a giant group of these insects. In 1957, a film about a “deadly” one of these insects was released alongside The Girl in the Kremlin and was later featured on an episode of MST3K.
One of this actor’s first roles was as the main character of the Goosebumps episode “Say Cheese or Die.” He also starred alongside Sandra Bullock in Murder by Numbers, in which he collaborates with a high school classmate played by Michael Pitt to commit the “perfect crime” of murdering a woman and placing blame on his pot dealer.
The 2015 Goosebumps film was more of a meta-comedy than a true Goosebumps story. In it, Jack Black plays this reclusive author of the Goosebumps series, whose literary creatures all come to life to haunt the town.
Praying Mantises
Ryan Gosling
R. L. Stine
Anime was a mistake, but answer some questions about horror anime anyways, for 10 points each:
While the original Japanese version of this anime is a somewhat serious story about a group of friends and a demon-possessed cat trying to rid their town of spirits, ADV films created a much better comedic dub of the anime that replaces one of its central characters with an over-the-top born again Christian.
In the first season of this show, a time loop keeps a group of friends in the small rural town of Hinamizawa repeating the same few weeks of their lives, at the end of which, one of them inevitably goes crazy and kills the others.
In the anime Hellsing, the central anti-hero Alucard is a shapeshifting one of these creatures who wields two large caliber handguns. Unlike most of these creatures, Alucard can be exposed to sunlight without harm.
Ghost Stories [or Gakko no Kaiden]
Higurashi When They Cry
Vampire
The writer for this movie explained that she made the central villains vegetarians due to the snobiness of some of her friends, for 10 points each:
Name this horrible 1990 film, ostensibly billed as the sequel to a completely unrelated 1986 film. In it, a young boy manages to destroy a group of vegetarian goblins by eating a Bologna sandwich and touching a stone from Stonehenge.
The documentary Best Worst Movie follows the fan base of Troll 2 and reveals that much of the odd dialogue resulted due its director insisting upon knowing more about American manners of speaking despite hailing from this country.
The only actually scary moment in Troll 2 occurs when the mother of the central family suggests they sing, “that song [she] likes so much,” one of the worst renditions of this song ever performed.
Troll 2
Italy
“Row, Row, Row Your Boat”
On the set of the original <em>Batman</em> TV series, this man started throwing eggs at Adam West and Burt Ward, causing an egg fight to break out, for 10 points each:
Name this legendary horror actor, most active in the 50s and 60s, some of whose most famous roles were as the villain in the 1953 House of Wax and as the eccentric millionaire Frederick Loren in 1959’s House on Haunted Hill.
In this film, named after a Poe poem and based off a Lovecraft story, Price plays Joseph Curwen who plans to mate with mortal women to create a race of super-humans. This film is notable for introducing the Necronomicon and Cthulhu to the general public.
For his last major role, Price played the inventor and father of this character, who later creates a rare snowfall while carving an ice sculpture for the Boggs family.
Vincent Price
The Haunted Palace
Edward Scissorhands
Not all shark films feature great white sharks or megalodons, for 10 points each:
Genetically modified mako sharks torment a research base in this 1999 film. Samuel L Jackson famously dies mid-speech in this film when a shark pops out of a hole in the room.
A 2005 Syfy original movie, alternatively titled Sharkman, sees a man become a monster when injected with the DNA of this shark species while being treated for kidney cancer.
This enemy of Gamera appears as a giant Goblin shark from space. Before killing him, Gamera uses this enemy’s back as a xylophone to play his theme song.
Deep Blue Sea
Hammerhead Shark [accept more specific answers]
Zigra
This character was originally going to be the villain of <em>Friday the 13<sup>th</sup> Part VI</em>, but poor reception of the previous film lead to the producers bringing Jason back, for 10 points each:
Name this popular protagonist of the 4th, 5th, and 6th Friday the 13th films, who manages to kill Jason in the fourth film by hacking at his head with a machete while repeatedly screaming “Die!”
Tommy also manages to kill this villain of the 5th film, who was the only villain in the Friday the 13th films who was not part of the Voorhees family. Similar to Jason’s mother, this man’s killing spree begins after he sees his son, Joey, killed with an axe.
My personal favorite Friday protagonist is Tina, the knockoff of Carrie from New Blood. Like Carrie, Tina possesses this ability, which she uses to fight off Jason.
Tommy Jarvis [accept either name]
Roy Burns [accept either name]
Telekinesis [generously anti-prompt on pyrokinesis]
The story "Slippery Elm" is about an attempt to engage in this action using throat lozenges. For 10 points each:
Name this action, which has resulted in stiff punishments for Borislav Ivanov after 2013 and Gaioz Nigalidze, the latter of whom was banned from a Dubai event in 2015.
At the 1993 Chess World Open, a newcomer using this man's name as an alias was busted trying to use technology to cheat. This Hungarian mathematician names a form of computing architecture.
This chess player was accused of deliberately inflating his opponents' ratings. This author of The Tactical Grob achieved a high rating while in a Virginia prison, where he spent most of his life after murdering his mother.
cheating at chess [prompt on cheating]
John von Neumann
Claude Bloodgood [or Klaus Bluttgutt III]
According to the book <em>The Tudor Kitchen,</em> Roman emperors would have these birds blinded so that these birds would think it was night and gorge themselves, thereby fattening them for slaughter. For 10 points each:
Name these French buntings, which have almost been hunted to extinction since they are served in a decadent dish in which they are consumed as diners have their heads wrapped with a napkin as to better savor the aroma.
One of the reasons that ortolans are so flavorful is that they are killed in this very unusual manner. This manner of death requires a liquid that is produced exclusively within a region of Gascony.
Many animal rights activists have compared the treatment of ortolans to the treatment of geese that are used to make this dish, fattened goose liver.
ortolans [or Emberiza hortulana]
they are drowned in Armagnac brandy [prompt on drowned; or drowned in brandy;]
foie gras
For 10 points each, answer the following about various techniques used to animate movies:
This tracing process invented in 1915 was used for Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. You can see it being used in Richard Linklater’s Waking Life and those Charles Schwabb investment commercials.
Although watercolor is nearly-impossible to use in animation, this director’s recent film The Tale of Princess Kaguya used digital effects to simulate watercolor drawings. He also directed Graveyard of the Fireflies.
This 1977 short film was animated using multiple glass panels. Created by a Soviet obsessive who has spent about 40 years working on a film adaptation of The Overcoat, Yuriy Norshtein, it depicts the adventures of a woodland animal who meets an eagle-owl and a horse.
Rotoscoping [or rotoscope]
Isao Takahata
Hedgehog in the Fog [or Yozhik v tuman]
In 1975, the co-editor of this publication, Ross McWhirter, was killed by the Provisional IRA after offering a 50,000-pound bounty for information leading to the arrest of IRA members in London. For 10 points each:
Name this publication named for a brewery that was founded after Sir Hugh Beaver got into an argument on a hunting expedition in North Slob over whether or not the golden plover was Europe’s fastest game bird.
Beaver was recommended to hire McWhirter by Christopher Chataway, who, along with Chris Brasher, paced this man in his successful bid to become the first person to run a mile in under four minutes.
Guinness World Records certified this election as the “most fraudulent ever” because Charles D. B. King received about 243,000 votes despite only about 15,000 voters being registered. Country and Year required.
Guinness Book of World Records [or Guinness Book of Records or Guinness World Records; prompt on “Guinness Book”]
Roger Bannister [or Sir Roger Gilbert Bannister]
1927 Liberian presidential election
This thinker argued that the best literature inculcates worthy lives in their readers as part of a theory of “humanics”, and that the best films spring from a single “ideology” according to the “seed” theory of cinema. For 10 points each:
Name this filmmaker who wrote the beloved text On the Art of the Cinema. The theories in that book may have inspired his films Sea of Blood and The Flower Girl, both of which are credited to this father.
Kim Jong-Il was a fan of all the James Bond films, except for this one, which he considered to be blasphemous and non-canon. This final Pierce Brosnan Bond film opens with Bond being “saved by the bell” at the DMZ.
On the Art of the Cinema also inspired the creation of Unsung Heroes, a film that illustrated this movement of Kim Il-Sung, which provided economic and moral incentives for labor. It is named for a horse.
Kim Jong-Il [prompt on Kim]
Die Another Day
Chollima Movement
Wikipedia claims that the largest jazz festival in the world takes place in this country; when that festival opened in 2005, it counted native sons Maliq &amp; D'Essentials in its lineup. For 10 points each:
Name this birthplace of the 14-year old jazz pianist Joey Alexander, whose debut album My Favorite Things hit the Billboard 200 in 2015.
At the 2008 Jakarta Jazz Festival this band played as part of a "special show." This vocal jazz group, founded by Tim Hauser, included a popular cover of “The Boy From New York City” on their album Mecca for Moderns.
Joey Alexander became famous after this trumpeter invited him to play at Lincoln center. He won a Pulitzer for his oratorio Blood on the Fields and is the brother of saxophonist Branford and drummer Delfeayo.
Republic of Indonesia
The Manhattan Transfer
Wynton Marsalis
This man and Clay Felkner collaborated to found the <em>New York</em> magazine, and employed Tom Wolfe, Nora Ephron, and others to write for it. For 10 points each:
Name this man better known as a graphic designer. This member of Pushpin Studio created the Babyteeth typeface, which he used in a poster showing Bob Dylan with psychedelic hair.
Glaser is probably best known as the designer of this image, which was inspired by Robert Indiana's LOVE sculptures. A general description of this logo is acceptable.
Wolfgang Weingart, a contemporary of Glaser who was also influenced by pop art in his design, is best-known for pioneering this style of design that avoids using right angles and fixed sizes. It was started at the Basel school.
Milton Glaser
I Love NY [or I heart NY]
New Wave of Design [or Swiss Punk Typography]
This movie's protagonist receives two tickets to <em>The Music Man</em> for letting his boss Sheldrake use the title location. For 10 points each:
Name this Billy Wilder film. It ends with Fran exclaiming "Shut up and deal!" after Bud Baxter declares his love for her.
The surveillance expert Harry Caul destroys his apartment looking for a listening device at the end of this Francis Ford Coppola film. It contains several scenes in which Harry plays his saxophone to jazz records.
A bizarre piece of music shifts in tone as the camera moves from a shot of an apartment to a shot of a picture of an ocean in this structural movie made by the Canadian filmmaker Michael Snow.
The Apartment
The Conversation
Wavelength
A song on an album titled for one of these places features the line “And I will do anything for love,” repeatedly sung in a melody eerily identical to that of the Meat Loaf song. For 10 points each:
Identify this type of place which titles the only album by outsider musician Y. Bhekhirst. An album intended for a sound installation in one of these places, which phases four tape loops of differing lengths to create tracks titled “1/1,” “2/1,” “1/2,” and “2/2,” is the first in the Ambient series.
This composer pioneered the genre of unobtrusive ambient music with his album Music for Airports. He collaborated with David Bowie on his Berlin trilogy and produced several albums by U2 and the Talking Heads.
In the opening scene of this opera, the baritone title character sings “News has a kind of mystery” after arriving at an airport and shaking hands with Chou En-lai.
airports [Hot in the Airport and Music for Airports]
Brian Eno [or Brian Peter George St John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno]
Nixon in China
Answer the following about artwork produced in Afghanistan, for 10 points each.
Afghanistan’s most popular art exports are probably these sorts of textiles, such as the soumak-woven examples from the Adraskan region. The kinds made for prayer by Baluchi nomads are particularly prized.
Dambura music accompanies representation of a markhor goat in buz-baz, an Afghani form of this kind of performance art.
In 1985, this photographer's picture of the green-eyed refugee Sharbat Gula staring despondently into the camera became the most famous National Geographic cover of all time. This photographer also collaborated with Paul Theroux on The Imperial Way.
rugs [or carpets]
puppetry [or marionette theater; prompt on "theater"]
Steve McCurry
Identify the following about some athletes who have suffered from the Yips, for 10 points each.
One alternate name for the Yips is Steve Blass Disease, a reference to a pitcher and announcer for this team who developed the Yips in 1972. The slogan "We Are Family" was the rallying cry of this team's 1979 World Series win.
Chuck Knoblauch's case of the Yips once caused him to misfire a throw from second to first so badly that it ended up in the stands, where it hit this man's mother. This former host of MSNBC's Countdown also hosted an ESPN show where he identified the "World's Worst".
The protagonist of this Chad Harbach novel may suffer from The Yips. This novel centers on Henry Skrimshander who plays baseball at the Melville-obsessed Westish College.
Pittsburgh Pirates [or Pittsburgh Pirates]
Keith Olbermann [or Keith Theodore Olbermann]
The Art of Fielding
A videogame set in this universe successfully copied the <em>Arkham Asylum</em> combat system and added a Nemesis mechanic which influenced your encounters with orcs. For 10 points each:
Identify this book series, subject of a well-received 2014 game subtitled Shadow of Mordor.
Knowing that their game based on the book universe wasn't as good as EA's The Two Towers movie license, the developers of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring boasted that it was pretty much the only Rings adaption to feature this character and his wife Goldberry.
Unquestionably the best ad for a Lord of the Rings game was for Lord of the Rings Online where Gandalf utters this line to announce that the game is now free-to-play.
The Lord of the Rings [or The Hobbit]
Tom Bombadil [or Tom Bombadil]
"You shall not pay!"
The protagonists of this show are brought together when one of them saves the other's life with a wrench. For 10 points each:
Identify this show where sorority girl Jules teams up with the green-haired occasional pot dealer Ophelia to go after campus rapists at Darlington.
Until it was cancelled, Sweet/Vicious aired on this network, which controversially fired most of its news organization in 2017 to better appeal to younger audiences or something. This network hasn't had a breakout hit since Jersey Shore.
The sixth episode of Sweet/Vicious largely takes place inside of one of these businesses. Joe, played by Anthony LaPagila, works to prevent one of these places being sold to a national chain along with employees played by Liv Tyler and Renee Zellweger in a 1995 film.
Sweet/Vicious
MTV
record stores [or music stores]
A better string arrangement of this song by the band's long-time producer George Martin appeared on the album <em>Give My Regards to Broad Street</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this song. The string arrangement for the original version of this song was done by Phil Spector, and its second verse contains the lyric, "Many times I've been alone and many times I've cried / Anyway you'll never know the many ways I've tried".
George Martin was the person with probably the best claim on this unofficial title, also sometimes bestowed on the band's original drummer, Pete Best. Brian Epstein also has a claim at this title.
John Lennon insisted on merging together Martin's orchestral arrangement of this song with an electrical one, despite the fact that they were done in different keys. John can be heard saying "Cranberry Sauce" at the end of this song, and the band pours paint onto a piano in its proto-music video.
"The Long and Winding Road"
Fifth Beatle
"Strawberry Fields Forever"
A film with this title by Ziga Virc includes interviews with Slavoj Zizek and imagines a secret deal made between the Kennedy administration and Yugoslavia. For 10 points each:
Identify this five-word phrase, which in another film is said shortly after one character is told to "give your oxygen tanks a stir", which sparks an electrical fire and sets off the Master Alarm.
The most memorable screen utterance of "Houston, We Have a Problem" is of course by Tom Hank's character in this excellent Ron Howard film.
I remember watching a network TV airing of Apollo 13 rather than the Apollo 13 episode of this HBO mini-series which was airing at the same time. Most of the big names from Apollo 13 such as Tom Hanks and Ron Howard were producers on this series.
"Houston, We Have a Problem!"
Apollo 13
From the Earth to the Moon
Ignatiy Vishnevetsky's review of this film opens with the line, "If nothing else, [this film] will go down in film history as the movie where Tom Cruise pilots a white, sperm-shaped craft into a giant space uterus." For 10 points each:
Identify this film directed by Joseph Kosinski, where Jack Harper is left behind as a Scav on Earth after most humans have departed for Titan.
Claudio Miranda did the cinematography for Oblivion and this 2012 film by Ang Lee based on a Yann Martel novel. It centers on a boy and a tiger.
Andrea Riseborough, who plays Victoria in Oblivion, had earlier starred in a BBC drama centering on this woman. Jonathan Lee's book High Dive centers on this person’s visit to a seaside hotel.
Oblivion
Life of Pi
Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher]
An anthology of games from this company is one of only six original Xbox games to support 1080i. For 10 points each:
Identify this gaming company who published games such as Yar's Revenge and Combat in that aforementioned collection. Those titles originally appeared on its 2600 videogame console.
Also included in the collection was this Atari arcade game which, like Asteroids, used vector graphics. The player uses thrusters to guide the title vehicle to a safe location without running out of fuel in this game.
This other entry in the collection contains a legendary Easter egg that reveals that it was programmed by Warren Robinett. The player's avatar is a simple dot in this game, which helped kick off the genre of the console RPG.
Atari
Lunar Lander
Adventure
This man played the drug dealer who Rick Ross took his name from in the film <em>Kill the Messenger</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this actor and ambassador to end mass incarceration for the ACLU. A character he plays is arrested after defending his warehouse against the Klan and briefly shares a jail cell with business partner Nucky Tompson.
Williams is best known for playing Omar Little, a character beloved by Barack Obama on this HBO series.
Williams played Freddy on this HBO series, adapted from the British series Criminal Justice. This project went back into development after the death of James Gandolfini, who was slated to play lawyer John Stone.
Michael K. Williams [or Michael Kenneth Williams]
The Wire
The Night Of
An untrue rumor stated that this man's most recent album would be followed-up quickly with one released on Easter depicting his resurrection. For 10 points each:
Identify this rapper of good kid, m.A.A.d. city and To Pimp a Butterfly.
At the 2016 Grammys, Lamar performed "The Blacker the Berry" at the front of one of these things. Alabama reintroduced the use of these things in the 1990s, and people can still volunteer for them in Maricopa County, Arizona.
In this breakout track from his independently released album Section.80, Lamar raps that "Malcom X put a hex on my future, someone catch me / I'm falling victim to a revolutionary song". Its chorus contains the rhyme, "Five-star dishes, food for thought bitches".
Kendrick Lamar [or Kendrick Lamar Duckworth]
chain gangs
"HiiiPower"
After the release of their album <em>Trouble Will Find Me</em>, this band played a six hour set at MOMA P.S. 1 where they performed their song "Sorrow" over and over again. For 10 points each:
Identify this band fronted by Matt Berninger, who writes about his wife Carin Besser on the track "Carin at the Liquor Store" on their most recent album, Sleep Well Beast.
The National's "Lean" appeared on the soundtrack for one of the films in this series. Taylor Swift's track "Safe &amp; Sound" was commissioned for one film in this franchise.
This group's "Gale Song" also appeared on the soundtrack for Catching Fire. This band's breakout hit was "Ho Hey", and they also released the album Cleopatra.
The National
The Hunger Games
The Lumineers
Identify the following about filmmaker Marc Levin, for 10 points each.
Levin is keen on documenting these types of events through the eyes of clueless celebrities. For instance, Levin's 1992 film The Last Party chronicled one of these events with Robert Downey, Jr.
Levin's film for the 2000 campaign featured this actor. He played CIA officer Gust Avrakotos in a scene-stealing performance in Charlies Wilson's War and won an Oscar for playing Truman Capote.
For the 2004 election, Levin documented Andre 3000. During that election, other musicians appeared on the Rock Against Bush compilations put together by Fat Mike, the frontman for this punk band behind Punk in Drublic.
presidential elections [or presidential campaigns]
Philip Seymour Hoffman
NOFX ("no eff-ex")
A surprising number of celebrities have been granted US patents. Identify the following about them, for 10 points each.
This actor and conga enthusiast received a patent in 2002 for a method for tightening of a conga drum. He also helped popularize the white t-shirt through a 1951 film adaptation of a Pulitzer-winning play.
A member of this family received a patent for his Marman Clamp, which was used to keep the Little Boy atomic bomb secure in the Enola Gay's bomb bay. That member of this family, Zeppo, left the pictures to focus on his engineering career after starring in Monkey Business and Animal Crackers with his brothers.
This man's patented Memory Builder trivia board game began as a way to teach his kids about the kings and queens of England. He lost a lot of money investing in the Paige Compositor, a type of automated typesetter.
Marlon Brando, Jr.
Marx [or Marx Brothers]
Mark Twain [or Samuel Clemens]
Identify the following about things that Mike Scully did besides ruin <em>The Simpsons</em>, for 10 points each.
Scully is an executive producer of this recently cancelled NBC show, which aired an episode about the Bill Cosby scandal in March 2016. The star of this show appeared on Chelsea the same day that NBC decided to not air this series's episode on a mass shooting.
Scully co-wrote an animated TV adaptation of this film which only lasted six episodes. I once saw someone running for a local office in Bellevue, Washington adopt the "Vote for Pedro" slogan from this film for his campaign.
Scully wrote a Season Two Parks and Rec episode titled for one of these creatures. The episode centers on Leslie attempting to catch one of these animals which bit the mayor's dog.
The Carmichael Show
Napoleon Dynamite
possum
Dan Nosowitz wrote a story in <em>Esquire</em> chronicling how Kobe Bryant helped kill these types of sneakers. For 10 points each:
Identify these types of shoes that go way-up over the wearer's ankle. The Converse All-Stars are a classic example.
The fourth iteration of Kobe's Zoom line is downright minimalist compared to the excesses of Reebok's "The Question", a shoe manufactured for this athlete. The 30 for 30 documentary No Crossover is about a trial following a high school brawl this athlete was involved in.
A recent Planet Money episode examined this athlete's quest to design a discount basketball shoe in partnership with the shoe firm Steve &amp; Barry's. He played many seasons with the Beijing Ducks.
high-tops
Allen Iverson
Stephon Marburry
Kurt Loder apparently reviews movies. Identify the following about some of his reviews, for 10 points each.
In the intro to a collection of his reviews, Loder declares "that's me in a two-second shot of a pair of eyeballs peeping over the top of a restroom stall" in The Paper, a film by this director. Nevertheless, Loder claimed that this director "has thrown up his hands and gone native" in his crappy film where "Tom Hanks is back, minus the mullet", Angels &amp; Demons.
Loder praised the screenplay Martin McDonagh wrote for this movie, such as the line delivered by Colin Farrell's character Ray that "If I'd grown up on a farm, and was retarded, [the title city] might impress me. But I didn't."
Loder begins his review of this film by declaring, "Most of us think of a penis as having two purposes" but goes to note how he's since been enlightened by the Helicockter scene from this film. Other scenes in this second sequel include a man literally pissing in the wind, and it was "co-written" by Preston Lacy.
Ron Howard
In Bruges
Jackass 3D
Identify the following about some free-to-play games published by major videogame publishers, for 10 points each.
This Xbox One launch title was released for free, although you only got one free character, Jago, to play with. You could buy the Combo Breaker Pack to unlock more characters.
In 2015, Nintendo released a "free to start" version of this game. A Mario-themed version of this puzzle game is something of a cult classic for the original Game Boy, although I prefer the 3D version for the DS by HAL Laboratory.
EA is the publisher of a popular mobile game centered on this franchise subtitled "Tapped Out". The Churchy Joes character collection in that game includes characters such as Helen Lovejoy from this long-running animated series.
Killer Instinct
Picross
The Simpsons
This group's final show, at least until a recent resurrection, was captured in the concert documentary <em>Shut Up and Play the Hits</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this group whose newest album has a track called "Tonite" which is a meta-commentary on dancefloor albums. They're probably best known for a song where the singer "got everybody's PA in my house" since that's also where Daft Punk is playing.
LCD Soundsystem's James Murphy was too overwhelmed at the time to produce this man's final album, Blackstar. Decades earlier he had his first chart hit with "Space Oddity".
LCD Soundsystem's first single after reuniting was titled for how this event "Will Break Your Heart". A Destiny's Child song about this event talks about "a crop jacket with dirty denim jeans" and "a pair of Chloe shades and a diamond belly ring".
LCD Soundsystem
David Bowie [or David Robert Jones]
Christmas [or the 8 Days of Christmas]
Identify the following about some of the more amusing chyrons or captions used on the <em>Bachelor and Bachelorette</em> series, for 10 points each.
JJ on Bachelorette Season 10 was given an occupation that combined these things with "entrepreneur". Wikipedia's long article on women and these things notes that Pat Nixon was the first First Lady to be seen with them in public.
Paige Vigil on Season 17 was described as an operator of one of these things. Texas's Carthage High School spent $750,000 to install one of these things for their football team's stadium.
Tiara from Season 20 was described as being an enthusiast for these animals. Joshua Foer's book Moonwalking with Einstein discusses people whose job it is to identify the sex of these animals, a non-trivial task.
pants [or trousers]
a jumbotron [or scoreboard]
chickens [or chicks]
Rather than drafting really tall, injury-prone players, many NBA teams are turning to slightly smaller players who have unusually large wingspans. Identify the following about some such players, for 10 points each.
This man, drafted 22nd overall by the Nets in 2013, was a better pick than a host of 7-footers who were chosen before him. Now with the Nuggets, this center was on the 2010 National Championship-winning Duke team with his older brother, Miles.
Although this player is "only" 6-10, he has the reach of a 7-5 player. This Texas alum won the league MVP award in 2014 while playing for the Thunder, and apparently has a secret Twitter account he uses to promote his legacy.
David Epstein, whose day job is as a reporter on this non-sports website, noted how most of the players with extremely long wingspans had Marfran syndrome in his book The Sports Gene. It became the first online-only reporting site to win a Pulitzer in 2010, and it broke the story of the IRS targeting conservative non-profits.
Mason Plumlee [or Maxon Alexander Plumlee]
Kevin Durant [or Kevin Wayne Durant]
ProPublica
A festival devoted to this type of food in Queens each July awards the Dutch Pot Trophy to the top chef. For 10 points each:
Identify this food where a namesake spice made up of thyme, ginger and peppers is applied to the meat. This cuisine may trace its origins back to slaves taken from the Coromantee people.
If you're in Queens, you might attend the Queens Night Market where you can dine on a burger that emulates those from this country's popular Ramly chain. You can get Indian food at Mamak stalls in this country.
I've attended a couple of festivals in Beach Haven, New Jersey devoted to this food. I haven't found a good vegetarian version of the Manhattan type of this soup, which is red rather than the creamy New England variety.
Jamaican jerk chicken
Malaysia
clam chowder [or chowda]
Identify the following about some of the not so great music biopics released in 2016, for 10 points each.
Don Cheadle starred as this jazz musician in a poorly received film that Cheadle also directed. The film most centers on this artist's relatively quiet phase in the late '70s, rather than, say, his recording of Kind of Blue.
Another 2016 jazz trumpeter biopic, Born to be Blue, stars this actor as Chet Baker. His other music-themed projects include directing Seymour: An Introduction about pianist Seymour Bernstein. Oh, and he co-starred with Lena Headey in The Purge.
Hank Williams III criticized Tom Hiddleston's covers of his grandfather's songs in this biopic also starring Elizabeth Olsen as the country musician's wife.
Miles Davis
Ethan Hawke
I Saw the Light
Given a description of the mobile game, identify the celebrity whose name is attached to the game, for 10 points each. If you need an additional clue, you'll only receive 5 miserable points.
Your nemesis in this person's American Dream game is the pink-haired Aston Kole.[5] An investigation into why this pop star was photographed with a copy of To Feel Stuff by Andrea Seigel was the subject of an episode of the podcast The Mystery Show. She did the Piece of Me shows in Vegas.
In this person's popular Hollywood game, your rival is the Paris Hilton-esque Willow Pape.[5] Kanye stopped a performance of one of his shows after this person was robbed in Paris.
Ok, I can't actually find anything interesting about this star's Path to Fame game. I think you maybe play as Sam. SkittlesWolf12 said that she(?) was forced to make her player character cry after a "glammy party on season 1 episode 2" in an iTunes review of the game.[5] This Camp Rock star released an album titled Here We Go Again.
Britney Spears [or Britney Jean Spears]
Kim Kardashian [or Kimberly Kardashian West]
Demi Lovato
Identify the following about promotional schemes targeted at children during the early days of TV advertising, for 10 points each.
Hey kids, want some dirt from Alaska? Just send in 25 cents and a box top from this company, which also manufactures Cap'n Crunch cereal.
Masks from this character were included in boxes of Wheaties. Johnny Depp starred as this character's sidekick in a lackluster 2013 film where he was played by Armie Hammer.
If you convinced your parents to check out a demonstration of GE's new refrigerators, you could win a toy circus or one of these cooler toys. Some fictional items of this type rely on Tibanna gas going into an Xciter.
Quaker Oats Company
The Lone Ranger
raygun [or blasters; or laser gun; or zap gun; or laser pistol; or phaser; prompt on gun or pistol]
Identify the following about some stations honored during Seattle radio station KEXP's National Radio Week celebration in 2017, for 10 points each.
Rodney on the ROQ, a DJ in this city, is credited with breaking all sorts of local punk bands including the Germs and The Go-Go's.
KEXP DJ Kevin Cole did an appreciation of REV105, a "revolutionary" station in this city where he used to work. Cole also hosted a program called "Nothing Compares 2 U" where he recounted DJing for Prince in the late '70s and early '80s in venues around this most populous city in its state.
The frequency owned by Georgetown's "one nation underground" station WGTB was sold to the University of the District of Columbia and then sold to this organization in 1997. This organization also produces Book TV.
Los Angeles [or LA]
Minneapolis
C-SPAN [or Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network]
In 1997, this animator released "the first animated series created exclusively for the World Wide Web". For 10 points each:
Identify this man who created The Goddamn George Liquor Program. Years later, he resurrected George Liquor for a Kickstarter campaign that advertised that it would contain tweening, unlike that early Flash venture.
George Liquor was a character created for The Ren &amp; Stimpy Show, the edgiest of the original slate of these programs. Later programs of this type included The Fairy OddParents and Aaahh!! Real Monsters.
The first episode of the Goddamn George Liquor Program opens with an anthropomorphic one of these things rising from the ground. A South Park character of this type was introduced in the Christmas episode where Cartman sang "Kyle's Mom is a Big Fat Bitch".
John Kricfalusi [or Michael John Kricfalusi or John K]
Nicktoons [prompt on cartoons]
poo [or dog poop; or hankey; or Christmas poo]
A recent documentary about this director has him revisiting all of his past films including <em>Phantom of the Paradise</em> and <em>Dressed to Kill</em>, the latter heavily influenced by <em>Psycho</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this director who included an infamous power-drill murder scene in his 1984 film Body Double.
This De Palma film was advertised with the tagline, "De Mented. De Ranged. De Ceptive. De Palma." John Lithgow plays a psychotic child psychologist in this 1992 film, which Owen Gleiberman described as "De Palma ripping off himself ripping off Hitchcock".
Universal keeps pressing De Palma to let them release a new version of this film with a hip hop soundtrack. Although poorly received at the time, this Al Pacino cocaine flick went on to essentially be the plot of GTA: Vice City.
Brian De Palma
Raising Cain
Scarface
The music video for this song opens with the text, "A Film By Brad Furman" in a very <em>Back to the Future</em> font appearing on a shot of a motel. For 10 points each:
Identify this single co-written by Poo Bear and Mason Levy from the 2015 album Purpose. The title question of this song is asked, "When you nod your head yes / But you wanna say no."
"What Do You Mean?" is a song by this artist, now in his Justin Timberlake-like SexyBack phase of being treated seriously. This one-time teen idol sure used the word "swag" a lot in a 2011 Rolling Stone cover story that talked about his discovery by Scooter Braun.
This actor co-stars in the "What Do You Mean?" video, exchanging a big wad of cash with Bieber in the intro. He narrated the Nickelodeon show The Brothers Garcia and was Tybalt in Baz Luhrmann's version of Romeo and Juliet.
"What Do You Mean?"
Justin Bieber [or Justin Drew Bieber]
John Leguizamo [or John Alberto Leguizamo]
The male protagonist of this film offers to cuddle with the female lead for "meteorological reasons" to keep warm while they're hiding out in a pool shed. For 10 points each:
Identify this Netflix independent film directed by Adam Leon. Danny, the Polish-speaking male lead in this film, grabs the wrong briefcase on a train platform, sparking a series of adventures with Ellie, played by Grace Van Pattern.
Tramps reminded me a lot of this Oscar-winning Woody Allen film. Alvy grows up by Coney Island's Thunderbolt in this film starring Diane Keaton as the title character.
Adam Leon's earlier film Gimme the Loot won the Grand Jury Prize at this festival in in 2012. Twitter first entered the mainstream at the 2007 iteration of this event.
Tramps
Annie Hall
South by Southwest Film Festival [or SXSW Film Festival]
Identify the following about some of the more outlandish things Acclaim did to promote their videogames, for 10 points each.
This athlete sued Acclaim for not sufficiently taking his name off of BMX XXX. This man appeared in two decent Freestyle BMX games, as well as a third which was a GBA-exclusive.
For a GameCube entry in this series, Acclaim offered parents ten thousand dollars to name their kid after the game's protagonist. The first game in this series was developed after Acclaim bought Valiant Comics.
Acclaim didn't need to do a lot to attract controversy for the home release of this Midway fighting game, thanks to its fatalities. The SNES version of this game changed the color of blood to appear as "sweat".
Dave Mirra [or David Michael Mirra]
Turok: Dinosaur Hunter
Mortal Kombat
One of the first attempts to do this involved employees of Fort Wayne, Indiana's Jenney Electric Company and a local Methodist college, but was lambasted for being a "dead failure". For 10 points each:
Identify this practice made mainstream in the 1930s. Some Negro League teams would use special equipment mounted on trucks in order to play in this type of game.
This team was the last in the Major League to play a night game at home. They still only play a handful of night games per year at Wrigley Field.
The first nighttime All-Star game was held at Shibe Park in this city. Most of Chief Bender's career was spent with a team from this city, and Home Run Baker started his major league career with a team from this city.
a nighttime baseball game
Chicago Cubs [prompt on Chicago]
Philadelphia [those teams were the Athletics] [Moderator: do not reveal the alternate answer to part 1]
Beth Harrington chronicled this family's history in her recent film, <em>The Winding Stream</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this family, whose matriarch, "Mother Maybelle", popularized a type of strumming of both the bass and treble strings on a guitar known as her namesake "scratch".
June Carter was the second wife of this artist of "Ring of Fire" and "Folsom Prison Blues".
Anita Carter, the youngest of the sisters, played this specific instrument in the group. Jim Creeggan primarily plays one of these instruments, nicknamed Grammah, for the Barenaked Ladies.
the Carters [or Carter Cash]
Johnny Cash [or John R. Cash; or J. R. Cash]
upright bass [or double bass; or electric double bass; prompt on bass; do NOT accept "bass guitar"]
Almost all of the voices in this film are provided by the actor Tom Noonan. For 10 points each:
Identify this Charlie Kaufman and Duke Johnson film, whose unique animation style was described by Anthony Lane as being "as though Invasion of the Body Snatchers had been remade with Wallace and Gromit".
Lisa performs a rendition of this song first in English and then in Italian in a moving scene in Anomalisa. Starfucker has a good cover of this Cyndi Lauper hit that takes place "When the working day is done."
Lisa is voiced by this actress, who is having something of a career resurgence thanks to her being cast as Daisy "The Prisoner" Domergue in The Hateful Eight.
Anomalisa
"Girls Just Want to Have Fun"
Jennifer Jason Leigh [the film is The Hateful Eight]
Congratulations, you've just got that job at the publishing company you've always wanted! Identify the following about your miserable life, for 10 points each.
Invariably, every novel that comes your way about a troubled marriage must be marketed as the "next" version of this Gillian Flynn novel, turned into a movie starring Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike.
You might even market So You Don't Get Lost in the Neighborhood, a novel by this winner of the 2014 Nobel Prize in Literature as "the next Gone Girl." Commenting on the low percentage of this Frenchman's books translated into English when he won the prize, Duncan White declared that he "was simply a French thing we didn't consume, like snails".
Maybe you were the functionary who convinced this author to title her Gone Girl-style novel about unreliable narrator Rachel Watson as The Girl on the Train. She shares her surname with a boy voiced by Joseph Gordon-Levitt in a 2002 Disney bomb.
Gone Girl
Patrick Modiano
Paula Hawkins [or Jim Hawkins]
Somewhat descriptive answer acceptable. Executive Producer Ben Winston told <em>Vulture</em> that they considered airing this segment during the Super Bowl in 2016, but it would have had to have been cut down to ten minutes. For 10 points each:
Identify this video, whose highlight is the star ostensibly free-styling Nicki Minaj's rap verse in "Monster".
One of the more popular Carpool Karaoke segments features this blind musician who was at the time promoting his "Songs in the Key of Life" tour.
Gwen Stefani's Carpool Karaoke video ends with a rendition of this song from the album News of the World. Crazy Frog took a cover of this song to #1 in France in 2006 thanks to a video where he's playing soccer against the Killbots.
Adele's Carpool Karaoke segment
Stevie Wonder [or Stevland Hardaway Morris; or Stevland Hardaway Judkins]
"We Are the Champions"
In one episode, this character does not push back against the cancelling of a bat mitzvah in order to take a trip to Camp Camellia. For 10 points each:
Identify this character who also performs a duet of "Somebody That I Used to Know" with Davina at a talent show that her children find too painful to watch.
Maura on Transparent was played by Jeffrey Tambor, who also played George Bluth Sr. on this acclaimed FOX sitcom revived by Netflix for a disappointing fourth season.
Transparent's creator Jill Soloway convinced Amazon Studios to let her make an adaptation of this novel by Chris Kraus. The TV show with the same name as this book stars Kevin Bacon, a man who sponsors the protagonist's art fellowship in Marfa, Texas.
Maura Pfefferman [or Mort Pfefferman; or Maura Pfefferman]
Arrested Development
I Love Dick
In this actor's final film, he berated director Frank Oz, stating "You wish I was a puppet, so you could stick your hand up my ass and make me do what you want"; Oz had his revenge by digitally altering the scene in post-production to get the smile he wanted. For 10 points each:
Identify this actor who starred at the former boxer Terry Malloy in On the Waterfront.
This was the aforementioned final film that Brando starred in. In this 2001 film, Brando's character Max convinces Robert De Niro's character to do one more job as a safecracker before retiring.
This Brando character delivers a lengthy monologue where he states, "You have a right to kill me. You have a right to do that… but you have no right to judge me". He goes on to declare, "horror has a face".
Marlon Brando
The Score
Colonel Kurtz
Identify the following about the antics of companies trying to prevent their brand names from becoming the generic name for stuff, a la Xerox, for 10 points each.
Interestingly, the German equivalent of this American generic term is a Tempo, and the Turkish equivalent is a Hansaplast. This brand was originally targeted at make-up wearing women.
In 1990, Northrop sued a guy for making "stealth" versions of these products, which are themselves known by the generic term Durex in many countries. Other brands of these things include Trojans.
Howard Lincoln, a lawyer at this company, was presumably the person to write a 1990 ad informing readers that "There's no such thing as a [this company's name]". This company successfully defended itself from a 1984 Universal City Studios lawsuit because a character it was using was in the public domain.
Kleenex facial tissues [prompt on just tissues]
latex male condoms
Nintendo [or Nintendo of America; or NOA; the character was King Kong]
Identify the following about some screenplays that have been rescued from the Black List, an annual list of the best unproduced scripts in Hollywood, for 10 points each.
Chris Terrio's script for this film appeared on the list in 2010. The only reason this atrocity about faking a film to free some of the Iran hostages won a Best Picture Oscar is because director Ben Affleck was "snubbed" for a Best Director nomination.
I was surprised to learn that this film's script appeared on the list in 2011, although it was greenlit the next year with Christoph Waltz cast as King Schultz.
An early Black List success was a screenplay by this woman adapted into a Jason Reitman film heavily featuring music from Kimya Dawson. She wrote the screenplay for another Jason Reitman film, Young Adult.
Argo
Django Unchained
Diablo Cody [or Brook Busey-Maurio]
In one of this artist's songs, she declares "That truly I ain't got no business in [the title location]" and is only there because of her friends. For 10 points each:
Identify this teenage R&amp;B artist behind the song, "Here". A dude with a creepy mustache follows her around in her song, "I'm Yours", which is recorded entirely with a selfie stick.
Alessia Cara's hit single, "Here", repeatedly samples from "Ike's Rap II", a song by this man. He won an Oscar for a song which asks, “Who is the man that would risk his neck / For his brother man?”
Remember when South Park released the album Chef Aid? Probably the best original song on the album was this one, where Isaac Hayes, in character as Chef, beseeches the listener to "suck on" the title objects.
Alessia Cara
Isaac Hayes [the song being "Shaft"]
"Chocolate Salty Balls (P.S. I Love You)"
Identify the following about some Game Boy Advance games which did interesting things with hardware, for 10 points each.
Arguably the best game in this series is an entry subtitled Twisted which included a motion sensor with the cartridge. The signature microgame in this Nintendo series is you guiding a finger into a nose. It stars a rival of Mario.
Another tilt sensor was included in a GBA game titled for this character. One of the first DS games to make interesting use of the stylus was this character's Touch &amp; Go game.
Warioware: Twisted! was one of just two GBA games to include a rumble feature. The other game was this one. It was developed by Pokémon studio Game Freak and has Jill mounting the title vehicle to retrieve the Red Diamond.
Warioware
Yoshi
Drill Dozer
Capsule episodes, which focus on one supporting character of a TV show, are all the rage these days. Identify the following about some such episodes, for 10 points each.
A recent Girls episode about this character's crazy all-nighter was filmed only with a handheld camera. She's played by Allison Williams, the daughter of newscaster Brian Williams.
Several episodes in the middle of the second season of this show were essentially capsule episodes centering on Mike, who has a penchant for talking to pet worms and who was once on the International Space Station.
In February 2016, this Shondaland show had a capsule episode centering on April and Jackson's relationship. Private Practice was a spin-off of this medical procedural.
Marnie Michaels [or Marnie Michaels]
Last Man on Earth
Grey's Anatomy
Much like the Jordan Harrison play it's based on, this film is largely set in a beach house, and Lois Smith reprised her role from the New York production. For 10 points each:
Identify this 2017 film where John Hamm plays a holographic younger version of the title character's deceased husband, Walter.
This actress played Marjorie's daughter Tess in the film. She won a Golden Globe for playing Mackenzie Allen on Commander in Chief and was nominated alongside co-star Susan Sarandon for her role in Thelma and Louise.
Michael Almereyda, who directed Marjorie Prime, had his greatest success with an adaptation of this play where Ethan Hawke played the title character. Isaac Butler wrote a long piece for Slate examining whether its title character is fat.
Marjorie Prime
Geena Davis [or Virginia Elizabeth Davis]
Hamlet
The advertising in an August 1957 match between this fighter and Hurricane Jackson was so intrusive that Buick general manager Ed Ragsdale apologized, stating, "as a fight man myself, I was incensed by the inept handling and bad timing". For 10 points each:
Identify this boxer, once the youngest man ever to become the heavyweight champion of the world. He fought three matches against Sweden's Ingemar Johansson.
This boxer, at age 20, broke Patterson's record for the youngest boxer to become heavyweight champion. This boxer notoriously bit the ear of Evander Holyfield.
Another interesting boxer was James Scott, a man who contended for the WBA light heavyweight title with several bouts in one of these venues, including ones against Yaqui Lopez and Jerry "The Bull" Martin.
Floyd Patterson
Mike Tyson [or Michael Gerard Tyson]
a prison [or a jail]
Identify the following about shady multi-level marketing company AdvoCare, for 10 points each.
The public face of AdvoCare is this quarterback, who appears on its DB9 line of nutrition bars. He led the Saints to their first Super Bowl victory.
Charlie Ragus, who founded AdvoCare after leaving Herbalife, once played defensive end for this team. Hall of Fame quarterback Len Dawson catapulted this team to the Super Bowl IV championship.
AdvoCare's fortunes suffered in the early 2000s when the FDA banned this substance, which had been linked to the death of Vikings offensive tackle Korey Stringer. Michael Ellis was convicted of lying to the FDA about the dangers of this substance in Metabolife 356.
Drew Brees [or Drew Christopher Brees]
Kansas City Chiefs [or Kansas City Chiefs]
ephedra
Early drafts saw this character get killed after fixing horse races, and <em>Newsweek</em> compiled an oral history of the scene where Bruce Bogtrotter is forced to eat an entire cake in her eponymous movie. For 10 points each:
Identify this character, a frequent library patron who teams up with Miss Honey.
Dennis Kelly and Tim Minchin's Matilda the Musical won seven of these awards in 2012, named for the British actor celebrated for his turn as Richard III. He also starred in Rebecca.
An episode of this delightful podcast, hosted by Dan Pashman, tried to re-create the chocolate cake from Matilda with Andrew Rea from Binging with Babish.
Matilda Wormwood [or Matilda Wormwood]
Laurence Olivier Awards [or Society of West End Theatre Awards]
The Sporkful
In a screed against this then-16 year old, <em>Creem</em> editor David Sprague complained that, "The #1 album in the country and she has yet to perform with a band". For 10 points each:
Identify this teenage pop star who first found success with "Could've Been" and a cover of a 1967 song by Tommy James and the Shondells that opens "Let me hear your heart beat".
Tiffany's first tour travelled to these types of places across the United States. Performing as "Robin Sparkles", Robin from How I Met Your Mother recorded a pre-teen hit in Canada about going to one of these establishments where she met a boy at the food court.
More recently, Darwish appeared in a commercial for this product titled "Keep an Open Mouth". This product appeared in Lady Gaga's "Telephone" video as part of its "we will not tone it down" campaign, parodied on the Colbert Report.
Tiffany Darwish [or Tiffany Darwish]
shopping malls
Miracle Whip
This artist was pressured by his record label to scrap a song about interracial love called "Irma Jackson" in favor of a single that more directly matched one of his biggest hits. For 10 points each:
Identify this country artist who, perhaps satirically, declared "We don't smoke marijuana" and "We don't take no trips on LSD" in the title location.
Kinky Friedman responded to Haggard's "Okie From Muskogee" with a track called "Asshole From [This Place]" where people from here "don't go to porno picture shows" and "you walk down the street knee-deep in tacos".
One of Haggard's final albums was titled for this genre of music and featured tracks such as "Runaway Momma". Fiddles and banjos are often used by bands making this type of music which developed in Appalachia.
Merle Haggard [or Merle Ronald Haggard]
El Paso
bluegrass
A recent trip I took to New York was spent not at art museums but in my hotel room puking and watching <em>Now You See Me 2</em>. Maybe you saw it? For 10 points each:
Michael Caine’s character in the film nonsensically tells his son, played by this actor, to stop calling him dad because “there were so many women, I don’t know whose bastard you are”. His "I'm a serious actor" role was a stint as Alan Strang in a stage version of Equus from 2007 to 2009.
In an amazing coincidence, the computer chip that the group needs to steal can be replaced by one of these objects. Phil Ivey used edge sorting on the backs of these things to beat casinos when playing Baccarat.
The logo of the secret society in Now You See Me 2 is just the staircase of this building. An electric powered 24-hour clock called the Shepherd Gate Clock is still on display at this building.
Daniel Radcliffe
a playing card
Royal Greenwich Observatory [or Royal Observatory, Greenwich]
This man was once the subject of a RICO lawsuit over his purchase of the Expos, and he infamously announced that the Expos would be leaving Montreal on Remembrance Day. For 10 points each:
Identify this MLB owner who has stuck Miami-Dade County residents with a 1.1 billion dollar debt for his costly new Marlins Park.
With Pat K. Lynch, Loria authored a 1968 book titled for this fictional character whose cover features a thought balloon exclaiming, "My books! My records! My pool table! My Van Gogh!" Future Simpsons animator Jim Reardon made a student film titled "Bring Me the Head of [This Character]".
Loria apparently orchestrated Sears's move into selling art by working with this Hollywood personality, whose yard was once decorated with a totem pole stolen by John Barrymore. He also put out a series of cookbooks and in the Simpsons universe endorsed Egg Magic.
Jeffrey Loria [or Jeffrey Harold Loria]
Charlie Brown [or Charlie Brown; or Chuck]
Vincent Price [or Vincent Leonard Price Jr.]
One hacked version of this game allowed all characters to fire projectiles while in the air, and due to the weird colors was known as the <em>Rainbow</em> version. For 10 points each:
Identify this groundbreaking fighting game, whose Championship Edition allowed players to finally have Ken vs. Ken battles and play as Balrog and Vega.
This character, who has a Machine Gun Upper special move, was the first Street Fighter character to be designed by Capcom USA. His shorts originally had the word "Mantis" written on them, but it was changed to "Maximum" since that looked better when the sprite was flipped.
This fighter is one of several games to have a character based on Zubaz, a Street Fighter II character who never made it through the concept art stage. This One True Game Studios game has only two buttons, and it features twins who train at Uncle Sensei's dojo in Bel Air.
Street Fighter II
Dee Jay
Divekick
At a concert in Birmingham, England in 1976, this man went on a tirade, proclaiming "This is England, this is a white country". For 10 points each:
Identify this man whose antics helped inspire the Rock Against Racism movement. This man played lead guitar on a song where the singer declares, "I look at the floor and I see it needs sweeping".
One of the artists involved in Rock Against Racism was this group, who had massive success with their albums Combat Rock and London Calling.
Another participant in Rock Against Racism was Steel Pulse, the first group from the United Kingdom to win the Grammy Award for Best Album in this genre of music. Inner Circle and Burning Spear are also Grammy-winning artists who make this type of music.
Eric Clapton [or Eric Patrick Clapton]
The Clash
Reggae
What's on the History Channel these days? Let's find out, for 10 points each.
Turns out this dude had a late night talk show titled Join or Die, although it only lasted one season. This Scotsman played Nigel Wick on The Drew Carey Show and was famous for his monologues during his stint hosting CBS' The Late Late Show.
Forged In Fire is about people with this ridiculous job title who compete to produce things such as a chakram which must withstand a "kill test".
I've heard okay things about this show, in which Katheryn Winnick plays Lagertha. Former Calvin Klein model Travis Fimmel plays the hero on this show.
Craig Ferguson
bladesmiths
Vikings
Identify the following about some unmade Batman movies, for 10 points each.
Circa 2000, Darren Aronofsky was slated to direct a film based on this gritty Frank Miller graphic novel that explains how a young Bruce Wayne got to be Batman.
The original plan for Batman: Year One was to shoot it in Tokyo with this actor as Batman. Around that time, this actor was starring alongside Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner in Space Cowboys and planning to direct Mystic River.
An earlier Batman vs. Superman film than Zack Snyder's atrocity would have been directed by Wolfgang Petersen, but Petersen decided to shoot this movie in Malta instead. Eric Bana and Orlando Bloom had supporting parts in this film.
Batman: Year One
Clint Eastwood Jr.
Troy
Julius Irvington may have started this meme, which was popularized by @FanSince09 with tweets such as "Goodall: with the first pick the Bucs take [these people] … please take them away help me *is thrown into a burlap sack*". For 10 points each:
Identify this meme. Another Twitter account devoted to this meme imagined how "[the namesakes of this meme] force me to cosplay as a police box from Dr Who and take turns paintballing my enormous nude torso".
The prototypical large adult sons are those of this sometimes presidential candidate and former Governor of Arkansas. This Republican won the 2008 Iowa Caucus.
Matt Ufford at SB Nation argued that this man was "our large adult baseball son". In August 2017, he broke a record for most consecutive games with a strikeout.
large adult sons
Mike Huckabee [or Michael Dale Huckabee]
Aaron Judge [or Aaron James Judge]
An opera about this woman by composer Mark-Anthony Turnage opens with a number where a chorus of old men and women sing how she's "known across the globe in all its cities for her perky peccadillos". For 10 points each:
Identify this 1993 Playmate of the Year, who was the victorious party in the Supreme Court case of Marshall v. Marshall over which court had jurisdiction over the estate of her dead husband.
The libretto for Anna Nicole was written by Richard Thomas, who also created an opera based on this TV show. The host's first name is frequently chanted on this daytime talk show when guests start fighting. Steve Wilkos did security on this show before getting his own spin-off.
In the Anna Nicole opera, this role was inaugurated by tenor Peter Hoare. His memoir My Remarkable Journey revealed his wish to be cryogenically frozen after his death, and "The Portland Laugher" was a frequent caller to his nationally syndicated radio show in the '80s.
Anna Nicole Smith [or Anna Nicole; or Vickie Lynn Hogan]
The Jerry Springer Show [prompt on Jerry]
Larry King [or Lawrence Harvey Zeiger]
Writing for Pitchfork, Mark Richardson contrasted this band with Bruce Springsteen, arguing that while "Springsteen's songs were <em>about</em> machines, [this band's] music <em>is</em> a machine." For 10 points each:
Identify this indie rock band fronted by Adam Granduciel. This group's 2014 album Lost in the Dream contained the tracks "Under the Pressure" and "Red Eyes".
The War on Drugs was founded in 2005 in this city and received heavy airplay from its indie radio station, WXPN. The Roots are from this city, as are Boyz II Men and DJ Jazzy Jeff.
"Thinking of a Place", an eleven minute track on The War on Drugs's latest album A Deeper Understanding was first released as part of this nationwide celebration. A Metallica live album recorded at the soon-to-be-infamous Bataclan was released for the 2016 iteration of this event.
The War on Drugs
Philadelphia
Record Store Day
Identify the following about videogames which have featured clown characters, for 10 points each.
Maybe the most famous clown character in a videogame is this iconic Twisted Metal driver, who drives an ice cream truck and has flames for hair.
Adam is the name of a clown from this series who dual wields chainsaws. The first entry in this Capcom zombie series was an Xbox 360 exclusive and plopped Frank West in a shopping mall.
Although Mad Clown appears as the third opponent in the World Circuit of Super Punch-Out!!, two brothers Nick and Rick with this last name are the last opponents of the game's Special Circuit.
Sweet Tooth [or Marcus Kane; or Needles Kane; or Needles Kane]
Dead Rising
Bruiser
Identify the following about some variations on the Frankenstein myth from films, for 10 points each.
This character from The Nightmare Before Christmas was created by Dr. Finkelstein, who used some dead leaves to stuff her body together. She eventually makes out with Jack on Pumpkin Hill at the end of the film.
The Nightmare Before Christmas was produced by this man, who also riffed on the Frankenstein story with his 2012 film, Frankenweenie.
Several critics have pointed out the similarities between Frankenstein and this 2015 film directed by 28 Days Later screenwriter Alex Garland. The protagonist of this film is an employee at the Bluebook search company.
Sally
Tim Burton
Ex Machina
If you're a network exec on a cable network such as the Hallmark Channel, it's easier to just copy other films and add Santa to them rather than come up with new ideas for your Christmas lineup. Identify the following about some such films, for 10 points each.
Up Network's Christmas Trade is pretty much just this film, except with William Baldwin playing the role originated by Barbara Harris and later played by Jamie Lee Curtis.
A kid wishes for her aunt to stop being able to lie in I'm Not Ready for Christmas, which is the same premise as the decent 1997 film Liar Liar starring this actor of the Ace Ventura series.
Ion's A Prince for Christmas is essentially a Christmas remake of this 1988 film about a man from the country of Zamunda. James Earl Jones played the protagonist's father in this film.
Freaky Friday
Jim Carrey
Coming to America
Tactics such as "hiring an outstanding crew" and "creating a spirit of camaraderie" are outlined in a stupid business book by Margot Morrell and Stephanie Capparell that draw leadership lessons from this man. For 10 points each:
Identify this man, who contacts videogame music composer Kat on an online dating site in a musical by Joe DiPietro, Brendan Milburn and Valerie Vigoda titled "[This Man] Loves Me".
My favorite band from this country, The Weakerthans, have a track where the singer declares, "I must say that in the right light, you look like Shackleton". Carly Rae Jepsen is also from this country.
This man earned an Emmy nomination for a 2001 Channel 4 miniseries about Shackleton. He played Gilderoy Lockhart in the Harry Potter films.
Ernest Shackleton [or Sir Ernest Henry Shackleton]
Canada
Kenneth Branagh [or Sir Kenneth Charles Branagh]
Identify the following about pop music producer Dr. Luke, for 10 points each.
Dr. Luke bought this artist a top-of-the-line Numi toilet after he bet her that her song "Wrecking Ball" wouldn't hit #1.
Dr. Luke's music career started with a stint in this band. This band was led by Howard Shore from 1975 until 1980, while today it is co-led by tenor saxophonist Lenny Pickett and once accompanied Katy Perry on a performance of "Birthday".
The Rubinoos accused Dr. Luke of plagiarizing one of their songs on this 2007 hit single that he produced. The singer declares, "I'm the motherfucking princess / I can tell you like me too and you know I'm right" in this song from the album The Best Damn Thing.
Miley Cyrus [or Miley Ray Cyrus; or Destiny Hope Cyrus]
The Saturday Night Live Band [or The Live Band]
"Girlfriend" [by Avril Lavigne]
A licensing issue resulted in an EA Sports game for the Genesis titled for these two teams "and the NBA Playoffs" getting an extremely limited release in Europe. For 10 points each:
Name these two basketball teams, the subject of the 30 for 30 documentary Best of Enemies. Larry Bird and Magic Johnson were rival stars for these two teams.
One of the crappier parts of Best of Enemies is that it relies on this person to give a first-person narrative of a Boston fan's perspective. He earned a Teen Choice nomination for playing Eric Matthews in Saw II and had earlier appeared on albums such as Face the Music.
The Minneapolis Lakers dominated in the 1950s thanks to "Mr. Basketball", George Mikan, who had played college ball at this university under coach Ray Meyer. This team defeated Bowling Green to win the 1945 NIT. SBNation wondered if this "Nickelback" of men's basketball will improve with the signing of Tyger Campbell.
Los Angeles Lakers and Boston Celtics [prompt on city names]
Donnie Wahlberg [or Donnie Edmond Wahlberg Jr.]
DePaul University [or DePaul Blue Demons]
This man lost to Richard Daly in a 1967 bid to be Chicago's mayor. For 10 points each:
Identify this civil rights activist and comedian who once went 30 months without eating solid food in protest of the Vietnam War. He died in 2017.
At a breakthrough gig at one of these clubs in 1961, Gregory won over the racist crowd by boasting that he got a $50 bonus anytime someone in the audience called him the n-word. These clubs share a name with a magazine founded by Hugh Hefner.
Gregory also apparently helped turn this man on to a vegetarian diet and thrice-weekly enemas. I seem to recall a Boondocks comic where Huey complains that Will Smith had been cast to play this person in a Michael Mann film.
Dick Gregory [or Richard Claxton Gregory]
Playboy Clubs
Muhammad Ali [or Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.]
One character on this show is dissuaded from writing poetry such as "A Recipe for Peace in the Middle East" by a professor at East Indiana State University. For 10 points each:
Identify this sitcom centering on the Heck family. It is narrated by Patrician Heaton's character, Frankie.
Eileen Heisler and DeAnn Heline, two of the writers on The Middle, both worked on this earlier working class comedy which is being revived by ABC. John Goodman played Dan Conner, the title character's husband on this sitcom.
This actor played one of Frankie's co-workers at Ehlert Motors in the early seasons of The Middle. He had a recurring role as Azrael Abyss, Prince of Sorrows alongside Molly Shannon's character on the sketch Goth Talk.
The Middle
Roseanne
Chris Kattan [or Christopher Lee Kattan]
Identify the following about some notable instances of stage fright, for 10 points each.
This man once walked off the stage during a 1989 performance of Hamlet, stating "I had nothing in me, nothing to say, nothing to give". Paul Thomas Anderson's Phantom Thread will supposedly be his last film role.
Except for charity concerts, this woman refused to perform live for twenty seven years after forgetting the lyrics to some songs at a 1967 performance in Central Park. This star of Yentl won an Oscar for Funny Girl.
A bad review in the Financial Times shook this actor's confidence and caused him to flee a 1995 production of Cell Mates where he has a scene in his underwear. This frequent Just a Minute guest was talk show host Gordon Deitrich in V for Vendetta.
Daniel Day Lewis [or Daniel Michael Blake Day-Lewis]
Barbara Streisand
Stephen Fry [or Stephen John Fry]
During a torch transfer ceremony at this event, a protestor placed a "Freedom" banner next to the Olympic Flame and the minister of education was booed for giving a speech not in dialect. For 10 points each:
Identify this Olympics. During it, an athlete on a gold-medal winning team declared, "I don't know much about Angola, but I know they're in trouble".
Many of the buildings at the 1992 Summer Olympics were repurposed from a 1929 one of these events. The Space Needle was built for the second of these events to take place in Seattle.
Andrew Lloyd Webber was commissioned to write "Amigos Para Siempre" for the '92 Olympics, although this man died before he could sing it at the closing ceremonies. Appropriately, his second solo album was titled Barcelona.
1992 Summer Olympics [or Barcelona Summer Olympics]
World's Fair [or International Exposition]
Freddie Mercury [or Farrokh Bulsara]
Identify the following about 20th century British fashion, for 10 points each.
On Whitsun weekend in May 1964, scooter-riding and smartly dressed youths who followed this fashion trend got into a series of disturbances with their rivals, the Rockers.
"Boys" named for this type of clothing title a 1964 drama where Reggie starts a homosexual relationship with Pete. Rockers tended to wear a lot of clothing made from this material.
If you were a working class punk kid in West Ham in 1980, you might have a mohawk and be into this subgenre of punk whose two-letter name was coined by Garry Bushell.
Mods
leather
Oi!
In "The End", an episode of the <em>Mike Tyson Mysteries</em>, it turns out this author didn't die but instead turned into the Chupacabra. For 10 points each:
Name this author who described himself as "basically well-disposed toward The Simpsons" after appearing as himself in the "Insane Clown Poppy" episode. He also wrote the Bech books.
In the "Heavyweight Champion of the Moon" episode, Tyson gets into a car accident and kills this astronaut. This second man on the moon played a lover of Liz Lemon's mother on the 30 Rock episode "The Moms".
This comedian voices the Mystery Team's pool guy. He's probably best known for playing Murray, the band's manager on Flight of the Conchords.
John Updike [or John Hoyer Updike]
Buzz Aldrin [or Edwin Eugene Aldrin Jr.]
Rhys Darby [or Rhys Montague Darby]
Genius helpfully notes that this person's name "is a stereotypical-sounding name in the Black community given to average White women". For 10 points each:
Identify this person who the singer says "He better call" in the end of a song that begins, "Sorry, I ain't sorry".
"Sorry" is a track from this artist's "surprise" release, Lemonade.
In this ballad from Lemonade, Bey admits that even though "I scratched out your name and your face / What is it about you that I can't erase, baby?" The chorus of this song notes, "Every promise don't work out that way".
Becky with the Good Hair [prompt on Becky]
Beyonce
"Sandcastles"
This man's years-long quest to star as King Herod alongside Jessica Chastain was chronicled in the documentary <em>Wilde Salome</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this actor whose character Sonny Wortzik robs a bank in Dog Day Afternoon. He starred opposite Robert De Niro in Heat.
Pacino, playing Satan, ad-libbed singing Frank Sinatra's "It Happened in Monterey" to this actor's character in the 1997 film The Devil's Advocate. This man also played an outcast named Kai in the remake of 47 Ronin.
Pacino's directorial debut was for a documentary about this play. Ian McKellen played the title role in a '90s film adaptation of this play set in pre-World War II England.
Al Pacino [or Alfredo James Pacino]
Keanu Reeves [or Keanu Charles Reeves]
Richard III
In 1937, this organization went on a "salvation tour" of the United States to raise money. For 10 points each:
Identify this football club which more recently played rival Real Madrid to sixty thousand fans in Miami.
Another club bent on American expansion, AS Roma, recently trained at this college's campus and housed its (American) football team during the summer. This school's men's hockey team holds the record for most Division I championships.
A July 26, 2017 game between Real Madrid and Manchester City attracted over 93,000 spectators, the most ever in this venue. Nude statues modeled on water poloist Terry Schroeder and long jumper Jennifer Inniss stand in front of this stadium, which was dedicated to World War I veterans when it opened in 1923.
FC Barcelona [or Barca; or Futbol Club Barcelona]
University of Michigan [or Wolverines]
LA Coliseum [or Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum; prompt on just Coliseum]
Identify the following about some of best scenes from 2015 movies, for 10 points each.
Early rumors stated that Leonard DiCaprio's character gets raped by a bear in a violent scene from this Alejandro Inarritu wilderness quest, although turns out that doesn't happen.
About 40 minutes into this film, Jack and his mom, played by Brie Larson, escape the title location and Jack gazes up at the sky for the first time from the back of a pickup truck.
I hear there's a cool 17-minute long scene in this Robert Zemeckis film, although I've only watched the documentary it was based on. This film, like the documentary, centers on Philippe Petit.
The Revenant
The Room
The Walk
On a "Yes/Yes/No" segment of the <em>Reply All</em> podcast, Adam West claimed that his lowest moment was when he took money in exchange for performing this action. For 10 points each:
Identify this action, surprisingly at the center of the Supreme Court case of Zacchini v. Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Co. The distance record for this action belongs to David "The Bullet" Smith.
In an excellent Simpsons episode, Homer secures a gig getting shot with a cannonball on a parody of this alternative music festival tour. It's now a festival each summer in Chicago that often makes Chicago Open traffic awful.
That Simpsons episode may have been based on Frank "Cannonball" Richards who once let this guy punch him in the stomach. He can be seen falling out of the ring onto a reporter in a George Bellows painting depicting his match against Luis Angel Firpo.
getting shot out of a cannon [do NOT accept "getting shot with a cannon ball"]
Lollapalooza
Jack Dempsey
Emily Nussbaum praised this actor's "Bob's Big Boy swerve" in his role as Dr. Ephraim Goodweather on <em>The Strain</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this actor. In one of his better known roles, his character Peter Russo falls for Rachel Posner, ending his campaign for Governor of Pennsylvania.
Stoll played a Congressman on the first season of this Netflix show, starring Kevin Spacey as Frank Underwood.
One of Stoll's bigger movie roles was playing this man in a Woody Allen film. This character once wrestled Mankind on an episode of Celebrity Deathmatch and TCM host Robert Osborne once noted that this man wasn't very happy that Harry, played by Gregory Peck, survives in a 1952 adaptation of one of his stories.
Corey (Daniel) Stoll
House of Cards
Ernest Hemingway
Richard Jenkins plays a radical history professor in this film. For 10 points each:
Identify this movie about a former member of the Weather Underground who seeks help from his old companions played by Nick Nolte and Julie Christie.
The Company You Keep was directed by this man. He won an Oscar for directing Ordinary People, and as an actor played the title Sundance Kid alongside Paul Newman in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.
This other Redford film was based on a book by Norman MacLean. Paul, the younger brother in this film, aspires to stay in Montana working for a newspaper and was played by a young Brad Pitt.
The Company You Keep
Robert Redford [or Charles Robert Redford Jr.]
A River Runs Through It
It’s not Dota, but a site called this game's Lounge is pretty much just a way to bet on eSports. For 10 points each:
Identify this game, rocked by a cheating scandal in January 2015 when the team iBUYPOWER deliberately lost a match in order to receive skins through the aforementioned Lounge site.
This company, which makes CSGO, has largely pretended that the gambling associated with the game's skins doesn't exist. They also develop Steam.
Sierra, the original publisher of Half-Life, had earlier found success with adventure games such as a series starring Sonny Bonds, a man in this profession. Players control either Michael Handy or James Cools in an early SEGA 3D light-gun game titled for people in this profession.
Counter-Strike: Global Offensive [or CS:GO; prompt on Counter-Strike]
Valve Corporation
police officers [or cops; or Virtua Cops; or police detectives]
The Burt Lancaster vehicle <em>The Train</em> shares the same basic premise as this 2014 film. For 10 points each:
Identify this movie where Lt. Stokes and his crew--including the John Goodman-played Walter Hancock--search mineshafts for the title objects.
The Monuments Men was directed by this actor, who has also directed films such as Confessions of a Dangerous Mind and Good Night, and Good Luck.
Jean Dujardin, who played Jean-Claude Clermont in The Monuments Men, is probably best-known for his role as George Valentin in The Artist, where he's saved by his dog Jack after this event happens.
The Monuments Men
George Clooney [or George Timothy Clooney]
he falls asleep and his nitrate film catches on fire
Identify the following about the early days of television advertising, for 10 points each.
He's not Bing Crosby, but this man once spoofed his ubiquitous Road movies with an episode of the Star-Spangled Revue about "The Road to Frigidaire". He liked to tell lots of golf jokes.
When not hawking Lipton or Pillsbury, Arthur Godfrey helped convince Americans that this industry was safe because he said so. A once-prominent company in this industry had a logo nicknamed the Blue Meatball and was the namesake of a short-lived 2011 series on ABC starring Christina Ricci.
Jack Benny helped pioneer integrated advertising and was a long-time shill for this brand. Poet Dana Gioia helped turn this brand around in the 1980s by coming out with cookbooks that emphasized its availability as a finger food in "fun shapes".
Bob Hope [or Leslie Townes Hope]
air travel industry [the company is Pan-Am]
Jell-O
Identify the following between the intersection of science fiction and right wing politics, for 10 points each.
This man's article in The Ornery American titled "Homosexual 'Marriage' and Civilization" prompted Geeks OUT to found the website SkipEndersGame.com which urged people not to see the film based on this guy's book.
This Utah Congressman described what happened after some large electromagnetic pulses caused a big political upheaval in his Great and Terrible novels. He shares a surname with the actress who co-starred as Nila alongside Nicholas Hoult in the 2016 indie sci-fi film Equals.
This man wrote speeches for LAPD chief William H. Parker before he got into TV. The show Andromeda was produced by his widow, Majel Barrett.
Orson Scott Card
Chris Stewart [who shares a surname with Kristen Stewart]
Gene Roddenberry [or Eugene Wesley Roddenberry]
One of these type of people, Guo Meimei, once posted a picture of herself with 5 million yuan in poker chips as part of a rivalry with another of these people over who had more money. For 10 points each:
Give this term for the second generation of Chinese rich kids. It literally means "the wealthy second generation".
Wang Jianlin, the son of the richest dude in China, didn't make a lot of friends when he uploaded a picture of his dog wearing two of the $10,000 version of these products. This product is a rival of the Pebble.
Another apparently popular thing to do if you're a fuerdai is to work for this company in order to pick up young women to sleep with. This market-leading American company lost its war in China with rival ride-sharing firm Didi Kuaidi.
fuerdai ("foo-arr-dye")
Apple Watches
Uber
The Three Mile Island accident prompted a number of artists to form Musicians United for Safe Energy. Name some MUSE members, for 10 points each.
The film documenting the MUSE concerts in New York City were the first time that this group was captured on camera, performing the classic song "The River". Today their hours-long shows might include "Born to Run".
Carly Simon performed a pretty awful duet on "Mockingbird" with this artist at a No Nukes concert. He won Grammys for songs such as "Handy Man" and "You've Got a Friend".
For one of the concerts, this artist wrote a protest song titled "Barrel of Pain" where he recounts seeing "glowing children". All members of the band he was in released solo albums following 1970's Deja Vu, with his titled Songs for Beginners and including the mild hit "Chicago".
Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band
James Taylor [or James Vernon Taylor]
Graham Nash [or Graham William Nash]
Hungarian playwright Miklos Laszlo made a number of contributions to film history. Name some of these, for 10 points each.
The first Hollywood adaptation of Laszlo's play Parfumerie was The Shop Around the Corner, which starred this actor as Budapest leather-goods salesman Alfred Kralik. He played Charles Lindbergh in the 1957 biopic, The Spirit of St. Louis.
The Shop Around the Corner was remade into a musical starring this actress in 1949. The only time she played a character who died on screen was in the 1940 musical comedy Little Nellie Kelly.
Most recently, Parfumerie was turned into this Nora Ephron film starring Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. The leads in this romantic comedy meet in an "over-30s" chatroom, whose title derives from a common AOL soundbite.
James Stewart [or Jimmy Stewart or James Maitland Stewart]
Judy Garland [or Frances Ethel Gumm]
You've Got Mail
At least one hundred thousand people have watched a YouTube video of the famous drum fill from this song looping for 30 minutes. For 10 points each:
Identify this song, which is playing as Mike Tyson punches out Zach Galifianakis's character in the first Hangover movie.
"In the Air Tonight" was the first solo single released by this man, who had gained fame drumming for Genesis. He also has an extensive collection of memorabilia from the Alamo.
As a teenager, Collins played the congas for recording sessions for this George Harrison album, although none of the recordings made it onto the album. This triple album included tracks such as "Isn't It a Pity" and "My Sweet Lord".
"In the Air Tonight"
Phil Collins
All Things Must Pass
After Peter Jackson pulled out of directing the planned <em>Halo</em> movie, he recommended to Microsoft that this young director film it instead. For 10 points each:
Identify this director who rose to prominence with shorts such as the Office Space-esque "Tempbot". His live-action short films for Halo 3 were collectively known as Landfall.
Blomkamp is probably best known for this film, which got him enough attention to direct the bigger budget Elysium. An alien named Christopher Johnson tries to escape from the title location in South Africa in this film.
Blomkamp also directed the commercial "Alive with Technology" for this car company in 2004. This French company's first real success was the Traction Avant from the 1930s, and since 2014 it's been controlled by the Dongfeng Motor Corporation as part of the PSA group with Peugeot, DS, Opel and Vauxhall.
Neill Blomkamp
District 9
Citroen
Identify the following about Canadian forays into international hockey competitions, for 10 points each.
Paul Henderson scored Canada's most famous goal in Game 8 of the Summit Series against this no-longer-extant country. The US beat this country in the Miracle on Ice game.
This Soviet goalie helped propel the team to a 2-1-1 lead over Canada in the first four games of the Summit Series. Finnish netminder Urpo Ylonen once discovered that this goalie was using one of his stolen sticks because it still had Ylonen's name on it.
The Trail Smoke Eaters, whose members worked for a smelting company in this province, trounced the world at the 1961 World Ice Hockey Championships behind goalie Seth Martin. People in this province rioted following a 2011 Stanley Cup loss.
Soviet Union [or USSR; or CCCP; do NOT accept "Russia"]
Vladislav Tretiak
British Columbia [or B.C.]
The title character of this film lies to a waiter pretending that she got the time wrong for a meet-up with the Instagram star she's stalking. For 10 points each:
Identify this debut film by Matt Spicer which centers on the title character's obsession with social media star Taylor Sloane, played by Elizabeth Olsen.
Ingrid Goes West stars this actress, whose breakout role was as apathetic intern April Ludgate on Parks and Rec.
Plaza's unbelievably lenient landlord in Ingrid Goes West, played by Ice Cube's son O'Shea Jackson Jr., has an obsession with this character. NPR contributor Glen Weldon wrote a book about this character and the rise of nerd culture.
Ingrid Goes West
Aubrey Plaza [or Aubrey Cristina Plaza]
Batman [or Bruce Wayne]
Members of the title group on this show drive blue Priuses and hope to live on pure light. For 10 points each:
Identify this show, which is about a cult devoted to Hugh Dancy's character Cal Roberts.
The Path is being broadcast on this streaming service, which also picked up The Mindy Project after it was cancelled by FOX. This joint-venture between Disney, FOX, Comcast and Time Warner's bread and butter is streaming network TV shows.
This actor stars as Eddie Lane on The Path. In a Conan interview, this actor said that "Gatorade me bitch" is one of his favorite ways his best-known character has ever used the phrase "bitch" in a sentence.
The Path
Hulu Plus
Aaron Paul [or Aaron Paul Sturtevant]
Identify the following about the music industry's attempt to kill the single in the 1990s, for 10 points each.
This band's album Ten ended up selling more than rival grunge act Nirvana's Nevermind because its label didn't commercially release singles "Alive" and "Even Flow" in the US market. This band's vocalist is Eddie Vedder.
Some labels would only release singles on vinyl records of this diameter intended for DJs and including extended dance mixes, so that the songs were eligible for the Billboard Hot 100 chart but inconvenient for home use.
This song was the most-played in America for 16 weeks, but was not a #1 hit because it was never released as a non-promotional single. The third verse from this track on Tragic Kingdom has a lyric about "You and me / I can see us dying".
Pearl Jam
12-inch [or 30 cm; or one foot I guess]
"Don't Speak"
Circa 2002, players of Mike Bentley's <em>Golden Sun</em> fan-game <em>War of the Adepts</em> spent a lot of time comparing it to this more commercially successful rival game. For 10 points each:
Identify this MMO by Jagex whose original atrocious graphics can still be seen in all of their Java applet glory in the still-available "Old School" version of the game.
PvP in Runescape was once restricted to zones of this name. An 1864 Civil War battle of this name saw fighting along the Orange Turnpike.
This even more successful game than Runescape shares some of its elements of being able to transform raw materials into more useful stuff, such as blocks. Notch, the creator of this game, made a lot of money when Microsoft purchased the rights to it in 2014.
Runescape
The Wilderness
Minecraft
Barry Sandrew's American Film Technologies developed a way to perform this process based on his earlier career in medical imaging. For 10 points each:
Identify this controversial practice applied to films such as The Bells of Saint Mary's. At one point, Ted Turner was applying this process to dozens of films per year.
On his deathbed, this director allegedly yelled, "Keep Ted Turner and his crayons away from my movies!" Those movies included Citizen Kane.
An early feature length film to be stencil colored via the Pathechrome process was a 1926 Italian adaptation of this novel. The novel itself was based on a Karl Briullov painting and concludes with a blind flower girl named Nydia drowning herself.
film colorization
Orson Welles
The Last Days of Pompeii
Guitarist Nile Rodgers served as the bandleader for a recent concert by this group at Madison Square Garden with opening act Earth, Wind &amp; Fire. For 10 points each:
Identify this band, who had a hit with a song that evokes "the days of 'Stompin' at the Savoy'". Other popular tracks by this group include "Dance, Dance, Dance (Yowsah, Yowsah, Yowsah)".
Chic’s “Le Freak” was one of the most popular songs in this genre. In an action fraught with racial undertones, mostly white fans smashed records in this genre at a Demolition Night in Chicago in 1979.
Chic were the headliners of the 2014 iteration of this event, also the destination of the women in Girls Trip. It’s named for a magazine.
Chic
disco
Essence Festival
This restaurant staged a First-Time Diner's Lunch where it gave free meals to kids and their parents to try to drum up some good publicity following a savage review by Pete Wells. For 10 points each:
Identify this fancy New York restaurant operated by Thomas Keller.
As part of the lunch, chocolate bars were distributed that randomly contained one of these objects, redeemable for a dinner at Per Se. Collecting one of these objects from a Wonka Bar allows Charlie to visit Wonka's factory in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Keller apparently taught Adam Sandler how to make "the world's greatest sandwich" for Sandler's role in this film. The Times gives Sandler's restaurant a four star review in this film, which centers on Flor and her bilingual daughter Cristina.
Per Se
golden ticket
Spanglish
Anthony Lane described the odd tone of this movie as being as if "the Michael Fassbender character from <em>Shame</em> had been teleported into a romantic comedy". For 10 points each:
Identify this 2012 Stuart Blumberg film where characters like Mike, played by Tim Robbins, confer with dudes like Mark Ruffalo about sex addiction.
This actress's character Dede helps Neil burn his porn collection in Thanks For Sharing. She hit peak pop-star status with her Missundaztood album which spawned smashes such as "Get the Party Started".
Pink's film debut came in this film, whose opening scene reminded Roger Ebert "of Zhang Yimou's choreography for the 2008 Olympics." Ebert also wondered how the title creatures in this animated sequel centering on Mumble and Erik "found out about Puccini".
Thanks for Sharing
Pink [or Alecia Beth Moore]
Happy Feet Two
Suki Lopez recently joined the cast of this show, playing a character who works at a bike shop. For 10 points each:
Identify this long-running show, which in 2015 moved to airing new episodes first on HBO. The new season has reduced the length of each episode from 60 minutes to half-an-hour.
The new Sesame Street episodes have trimmed most of the cast, although this favorite has remained. As of 2006, this character's favorite food has become a "sometimes snack".
Another regular on the new episodes of Sesame Street is this character, whose first appearance in 2006 centered on her quest to fix her broken wand. She's fluent in a language called Dragonfly.
Sesame Street
Cookie Monster
Abby Cadabby [or Abby Cadabby]
In one role, this actor's character of Kenny Wells travels to Indonesia in an effort to save the mining business he inherited from his father. For 10 points each:
Identify this star of Gold. In a better movie, he played Dallas, who owns a business called Xquisite.
Gold was not McConaughey's first gold-related film. He also starred in Fool's Gold alongside this actor, who played a character improbably named Bigg Bunny Deenz. After his comedy specials took off, this actor had a starring role alongside Ice Cube in the Ride Along franchise.
McConaughey is also a prospector in this 2005 film based on a Clive Cussler novel. This film centers on some treasure aboard the CSS Texas ironclad.
Matthew McConaughey [or Matthew David McConaughey]
Kevin Hart [or Kevin Darnell Hart]
Sahara
Identify the following about some second-generation musicians making names for themselves, for 10 points each.
James Jagger plays Kip Stevens, the frontman for the band Nasty Bits on this cancelled HBO series. The first episode of this show was directed by Martin Scorsese, who apparently wasn't familiar with Ray Romano before casting Romano as Richie Finestra's father.
Joey Armstrong plays in a pop-punk band, much like his father Billie Joe, who is the frontman for this group. This band's high point was probably American Idiot.
Aimee, an artist from this musical family, has found YouTube success with a cover of LCD Soundsystem's "I Can Change" and "Raining Gold", released under the name ARO.
Vinyl
Green Day
the Osbournes
Rose Cooper, one of the protagonists of this film, has her last name become an eponym after she tasers a guy due to being unfamiliar with the phrase "shotgun". For 10 points each:
Identify this awful 2015 film, ostensibly a comedy. Cooper is tasked with bringing Sofia Vergara's Daniella, the wife of a cartel informant, to Dallas in this movie. It also shares its title with a Need for Speed game.
This actress starred as Rose Cooper in Hot Pursuit but was a lot funnier as the star of the Legally Blonde movies.
A joke in Hot Pursuit that was amusing once, but pretty boring after it was repeated for the third time, was news reports progressively giving a more unrealistic value for this trait of Reese Witherspoon's character.
Hot Pursuit
Reese Witherspoon [or Laura Jeanne Reese Witherspoon]
her height
Let's remember some of the top songs of 2015, for 10 points each.
So this Fetty Wap song is about the title person's expertise in cooking crack or something? At one point in the video, that title character of this song removes a pie from the oven, in a literal interpretation of a line from the chorus.
This surprisingly stripped down song by Little Big Town describes how the singer "hates to admit it" that she has the title infatuation. The singer of this song "wants everything she has".
“Shock Me” by Baroness was inspired by the group having survived one of these disasters. Metallica’s bassist Cliff Burton was killed in one of these incidents in 1986.
"Trap Queen"
"Girl Crush"
their tour bus crashed [or car crash]
In a book where this character "saves the day", she discovers a profitable honey tree. For 10 points each:
Identify this immigrant to the Minnesota territory. Her holiday collection included a Saint Lucia gown. She was released alongside Samantha Parkington and Molly McIntire.
Kirsten Larson was one of the three original dolls created for this series of toys. A later addition to this collection, Addy, is a slave girl who was once forced to eat a worm by the foreman.
Another American Girl character, Kit Kittredge, got a PC game where you win prizes to customize one of these things. The QA group at Nintendo of America has this name, derived from Donkey Kong’s residence.
Kirsten Larson [or Kirsten Larson]
American Girl dolls
treehouse
Identify the following about Argonaut Games, for 10 points each.
The company was Nintendo's go-to studio for early 3D games, including the first two entries in this series. The second game in this space shooter series starring a certain Mr. McCloud was officially released for the first time on the SNES Mini.
The Argonaut game Croc was originally slated to star this Nintendo character. In one lame N64 appearance, he hides on the roof and gives your character 100 lives.
Some GameCube editions of an Argonaut game titled for one of these characters included a copy of Pac-Man Vs. The player battles Emperor O-Dor in the Argonaut game titled for these characters, and another starred in a 1991 Tecmo sequel subtitled The Ancient Ship of Doom.
Star Fox
Yoshi
ninja [or I-Ninja]
This man refused to kiss Shirley Jones in the film <em>April Love</em> because he was married, and he downright refused to star in a film alongside Marilyn Monroe. For 10 points each:
Identify this musician known for ballads such as "Love Letters in the Sand" and "Friendly Persuasion".
Boone's clean-cut image was challenged in the 1980s when this magazine claimed it had a picture of a young Boone sticking his penis through a glory hole. It's not Penthouse, but Larry Flynt founded this magazine as a newsletter for the strip club he owned.
Boone's long interest in basketball includes owning an ABA team in this city, originally nicknamed the Americans. A baseball team came to this city under owner Charlie Finley, who liked to use gimmicks like orange baseballs.
Pat Boone [or Charles Eugene Boone]
Hustler
Oakland, California [do NOT accept "San Francisco"]
This actor switches between three different phones and some 40 different personas in his one-man Broadway show, <em>Fully Committed</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this one-time judge on So You Think You Can Dance. His signature role has him in a relationship with Cam, played by Eric Stonestreet.
Ferguson plays Mitch Pritchett on this ABC comedy, which has won approximately six quintillion Emmys.
Ferguson's other stage work includes originating the role of Leaf Coneybear in this Tony-winning show. Al Sharpton was chosen for the audience participation part of this musical at the 2005 Tony Awards, and its songs include "My Friend, the Dictionary".
Jesse Tyler Ferguson
Modern Family
The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee
This man recently told Arsenio Hall that he wouldn't have invited Kobe Bryant to a new version of the Black Athlete Summit he convened in Cleveland in 1967 after retiring from sports. For 10 points each:
Identify this athlete who starred as Lyedecker in 100 Rifles and the title role in Black Gunn. His character of Jefferson kills Maggot in The Dirty Dozen.
Jim Brown's Black Athlete Summit was in support of this fellow athlete, who refused to be drafted to fight in Vietnam. He once called his rival, Joe Frazier, an Uncle Tom.
This athlete attended the summit while still a Junior in college. In his post-basketball career, he wrote a novel about Mycroft Holmes.
Jim Brown [or James Nathaniel Brown]
Muhammad Ali [or Cassius Clay or Cassius Marcellus Clay, Jr.]
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar [or Lew Alcindor]
Quirks in valuations for Chinese-listed companies have led to some unusual corporate acquisitions. Identify the following about some of these, for 10 points each.
Splash Damage, the developer of Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, was purchased by Leyou, a Chinese firm that makes most of its money supplying this product. An American company best-known for selling this product had a hit in Karachi with the Zinger.
Framestore, a British company in this business, was strangely purchased by a Beijing-based construction materials firm in November 2016. The company Rhythm and Hues filed for bankruptcy prior to winning a 2013 Oscar in this category.
One reason game studios are so attractive to Chinese industrial firms is that their high margins help the firms meet the requirement of being profitable for three years in a row necessary to get listed on the stock exchange in this financial capital of China.
poultry [or chicken; or fried chicken; prompt on fast food or burgers]
special effects
Shanghai
For their Sounds Delicious Vinyl series, Turntable Kitchen has commissioned artists to do new takes on classic rock albums. Identify the following about some such projects, for 10 points each.
This artist recorded Teenage Fanclub's Bandwagonesque, an album he describes as "my favorite record by my favorite band of all time." One of my favorite albums of all time is Such Great Heights, the one and only album he released with Jimmy Tamborello for The Postal Service.
Yumi Zouma covered this British band's seminal album (What's The Story) Morning Glory? Yumi Zouma's version of this band's "Champagne Supernova" is much more synthy than the original.
One hopes that Turntable Kitchen will agree to the reader request to have someone attempt to cover the original soundtrack from the first film in this franchise. The Simpsons Ride replaced a simulator set in this film universe at Universal Studios.
Benjamin Gibbard [or Ben Gibbard]
Oasis
Back to the Future
Lily Tomlin tells this director, "Why don't you fuck your whole movie, because that's what you're doing" in a behind-the-scenes video of this man freaking out on the set of <em>I Heart Huckabees</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this director who received three consecutive Oscar nominations for Best Director for his films The Fighter, Silver Linings Playbook and American Hustle.
Russell's cancelled film Nailed was a political drama he co-wrote with this woman, also a onetime story editor on Futurama. She helped secure her father's participation in the Futurama episode Crimes of the Hot.
This comedian was slated to co-star in Nailed as "a priest with an irreversible erection". This actor’s best known character starred as a child on the Nick show Ray Ray's Mystery Garage and hangs out with Grizz and Dot Com.
David O. Russell [or David Owen Russell]
Kristin Gore [or Kristin Carlson Gore]
Tracy Morgan [or Tracy Jamal Morgan]
A character played by this actress is told to "bring me some weirdos from Ohio" on a trip to her sister's baby shower. For 10 points each:
Identify this actress who played an "Amazing" playwright who shares her first name in a Netflix film opposite Chris O'Dowd. She also co-hosts the podcast 2 Dope Queens.
Williams rose to prominence on this show, staying on for a while after its longtime host left and was replaced by Trevor Noah.
Williams co-hosts 2 Dope Queens with Phoebe Robinson, one of the writers on this show. One of the protagonists begins this series with a job cleaning up pubic hair at the Soulstice health club, and the other works at Deals Deals Deals.
Jessica Williams
The Daily Show
Broad City
For his latest film, this director received 3,500 designs for a space station called Alpha after soliciting submissions from the general public. For 10 points each:
Identify this director of The Story of Joan of Arc. In her book on this director, Susan Hayward argued that the protagonist of his movie La Femme Nikita is subjected to a "civilizing ritual".
Besson is probably best known for this 1997 film, a sci-fi project like his recent flop, Valeran. Bruce Willis drives a flying taxi in this film where Milla Jovovich's character has a distinctive outfit.
Prince was apparently the top choice for this gender ambiguous talk show host in The Fifth Element. Chris Tucker ended up playing this character with a gem-like name in the film.
Luc Besson
The Fifth Element
Ruby Rhod [or Ruby Rhod; or Miss Ruby]
NCAA scouts have used this event to sign talent such as Sanya Richards. For 10 points each:
Identify this annual high school athletic event held each spring in Kingston. It's pretty much the biggest sporting event in Jamaica.
This athlete failed to shine when competing in the Class 3 age group at Champs. But he did win gold in the hundred meters in Beijing, London and Rio.
Bolt applauded this athlete's record time in the 400m in Rio, which he unexpectedly earned from Lane 8. He was the first South African to win gold in 2016.
Champs [or Inter-Secondary Schools Boys and Girls Championships]
Usain Bolt [or Usain St Leo Bolt]
Wayde van Niekerk
George Harrison helped finance this film after EMI backed out days before shooting was set to begin in Tunisia. For 10 points each:
Identify this film, which was advertised in Sweden as "the film banned in Norway".
Life of Brian's origin stems from a comment this Python member made that the group's next film would be titled Jesus Christ: Lust for Glory. In 2014 he performed "Not the Messiah (He's a Very Naughty Boy)" at Carnegie Hall. Oh and he's not named Terry, John, Michael or Graham.
The best scene in Life of Brian is when a character is caught tagging this three-word grammatically incorrect phrase on a wall in Jerusalem. Give it in the incorrect Latin.
Life of Brian
Eric Idle
ROMANES EUNT DOMUS
For this album’s 25th anniversary, will.i.am made a terrible remix of its Paul McCartney duet “The Girl is Mine.” For 10 points each:
Name this Michael Jackson album, the best-selling album of all time. Its seven hit singles included “Beat It” and “Billie Jean.”
Besides producing Thriller, the Nadia Boulanger student Quincy Jones worked on this charity single by the supergroup USA for Africa. A remake was made after the 2010 Haiti earthquake.
Jones is tied for second-most Grammys won with bluegrass-country musician Alison Krauss, who won the Album of the Year award for this album, a collaboration with Robert Plant.
Thriller
“We Are the World”
Raising Sand
Lilí Álvarez shocked the world by wearing a divided skirt by this designer at Wimbledon. For 10 points each:
Name this Italian fashion designer who collaborated with Dalí on her Lobster Dress and Skeleton Dress. With Jean Cocteau, she designed a rose-embroidered evening coat with a Rubin vase.
This British designer also made a skeleton dress and brought back low-rise pants. He used a moth-filled glass box for his VOSS collection, and was the subject of the Met’s Savage Beauty exhibit after his 2010 suicide.
This style, popularized by Vivienne Westwood’s boutique SEX, influenced McQueen. It often involves boots and ripped clothing, and was worn by bands in a musical style of the same name like the Sex Pistols.
Elsa Schiaparelli
(Lee) Alexander McQueen
punk fashion [accept punk rock]
The common English name for this food derives from the Turkish for “to curdle.” For 10 points each:
Name this common dairy-based food, whose Greek variety has recently seen a major surge in popularity.
This Greek sauce, which uses yogurt as a base, is commonly poured on meat or used for dipping.
The other primary ingredient in tzatziki besides yogurt, garlic, olive oil, and vinegar is this vegetable, whose “burpless” variety is common throughout the Middle East.
yogurt
tzatziki sauce
cucumbers
Name some people who created the music you hear in movies, for 10 points each.
This music production company run by Thomas Bergersen and Nick Phoenix produces large amounts of trailer music. Their most popular track on YouTube, “Protectors of the Earth,” often appears in gaming videos.
This German-born composer created the music for the Pirates of the Caribbean series, Gladiator, Inception, and The Dark Knight.
This composer is probably best known for composing the themes to the Star Wars movies and Jaws.
Two Steps From Hell
Hans Zimmer
John Williams
This musical’s song “My Shot” cops a rhythmic cadence from the way Notorious B.I.G. spells out his name in “Going Back to Cali.” For 10 points each:
Name this hip-hop musical by Lin-Manuel Miranda about the life of the title Founding Father, including his love for Elizabeth Schuyler, cabinet battles, and his duel with Aaron Burr.
In 2015, Miranda won one of these $625,000 fellowships, often called “genius grants.”
In Synecdoche, New York, this Philip Seymour Hoffman-played theater director uses a MacArthur Fellowship to build a grandiose theater project that grows uncomfortably close to reality.
Hamilton
MacArthur Fellowship
Caden Cotard [accept either underlined portion]
Worlds explored by this game’s expansions include Dominaria, Zendikar, and Ravnica. For 10 points each:
Name this popular trading card game in which players use five colors of mana produced by lands to cast spells.
In Magic, if you don’t like your opening hand, you can reshuffle and draw a new hand with one fewer card, an action given this name. The name was borrowed from a practice of informally allowing second strokes in golf.
New Magic tournament rules allow players to perform this action for one if they took a mulligan. This keyword refers to looking at some number of cards on top of the deck, then choosing to put them on the top or bottom.
Magic: The Gathering [or MTG]
Paris mulligan
scrying
This man wrote the 2002 book What Time Is It? You Mean Now? For 10 points each:
Name this recently deceased long-time New York Yankees catcher best known for his numerous malapropisms and contradictory phrases.
This man, Berra's longtime manager, said “I never play a game without my man,” referring to Yogi. The first manager in Mets history, he won seven World Series titles with the Yankees from 1949 to 1958.
While Berra himself was managing the Yankees in 1964, he infamously lost his temper with infielder Phil Linz on the team bus and demanded Linz stop playing with this object.
Lawrence Peter “Yogi” Berra
Charles Dillon “Casey” Stengel
harmonica
The artist of this song describes how the titular location made him “an angel on angel dust.” and it was mashed up with Radioactive at the 2014 VMAs. For 10 points each:
Name this song that begins: “If Pirus and Crips all got along / they’d probably gun me down by the end of the song,” before Schoolboy Q yells “YAWK YAWK YAWK YAWK.”
m.A.A.d city appears on the album good kid, m.A.A.d city by this artist, whose other hits include “Swimming Pools” and “Bitch Don’t Kill My Vibe.”
Mortal Man, the last track on Kendrick’s latest album, To Pimp a Butterfly, ends with a mock-interview of this other artist, who describes how “poor people are going to open up the whole world and swallow up the rich.”
m.A.A.d city
Kendrick Lamar Duckworth [accept any underlined part]
Tupac Shakur [accept either]
This soccer player became the most expensive in history when he was signed from Tottenham Hotspur. For 10 points each:
Name this winger, who was bought by Real Madrid for £83 million in 2013.
Having been born in Cardiff, Gareth Bale plays soccer for this national team, which recently qualified for the European Championships for the first time in 57 years.
Another Welsh winger is this one-club player, who spent 23 years in the Manchester United first team and was briefly their caretaker manager after David Moyes was sacked.
Gareth Bale
Wales [accept Cymru]
Ryan Giggs
This character dates his boss’s daughter Zoey. For 10 points each:
Name this Personal Aide to the President, played by Dulé Hill. An assassination attempt on this character wounds Josh Lyman instead.
Charlie served as President Josiah Bartlet's Personal Aide on this overly witty Aaron Sorkin-created political drama that aired on NBC. It was named for the part of the White House that housed the Oval House.
Aaron Sorkin also wrote the script for this 2011 sports drama film about the Oakland Athletics manager Billy Beane, portrayed by Brad Pitt. It was based on a 2003 book of the same name by Michael Lewis.
Charles “Charlie” Young
The West Wing
Moneyball
The title of this song is taken from a Natalie Portman line in the 2004 film Closer. For 10 points each:
Name this song whose chorus asks “testosterone boys and harlequin girls, will you dance to this beat and hold a lover close?” and appears on the album A Fever You Can’t Sweat Out.
“Lying Is the Most Fun” is by this band, better known for a song in which the lead singer interrupts a wedding and announces that “the poor groom’s bride is a whore,” "I Write Sins Not Tragedies.”
Panic! At the Disco is a member of the label Fueled by Ramen along with this other band known for their songs “Snakes on a Plane ” and “Guilty Pleasure”.
“Lying is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off”
Panic! At the Disco
Cobra Starship
State some facts about a certain tennis legend, for 10 points each:
This Czech-American holds the most titles in the open era and was the No. 1 women’s tennis player from 1982 to 1986. A lesbian and LGBT-rights activist, she recently married Julia Lemigova.
From the late 1980s until her 2006 retirement, Navratilova transitioned toward this type of tennis match, which uses the alleys between the tramlines. The Williams sisters often play together in this format.
This Indian player has a total of seventeen Grand Slam titles in men’s and mixed doubles and has played in the Davis Cup more than 20 times. Most recently, he won three Grand Slam titles with Martina Hingis.
Martina Navratilova [or Martina Šubertová]
doubles [accept women’s doubles]
Leander Paes
Six actors, including Cate Blanchett, play facets of this musician in I’m Not There, in which his band blasts the audience with machine guns before playing “Maggie’s Farm” at Newport Folk Festival. For 10 points each:
Name this singer-songwriter whose tours were the subject of D. A. Pennebaker’s documentaries Dont Look Back and Eat the Document. He wrote songs like “Blowin’ in the Wind.”
Martin Scorsese named his Dylan documentary, No Direction Home, from this song which asks a certain “Miss Lonely,” “How does it feel?”
This four-word phrase ends each stanza of Dylan’s “Rainy Day Women #21 & 35.” Dylan contends that it’s an allusion to the Book of Acts, not a drug reference.
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman, though don’t let him hear you say that!]
“Like a Rolling Stone”
“Everybody must get stoned”
In the late stages of this game, the protagonist fights Organization XIII members in "The World That Never Was." For 10 points each:
Identify this game which begins with Roxas in a simulation of Twilight Town. This game featured additions such as the use of Sora's Master Form and Final Form, and includes worlds like Port Royal and Space Paranoids.
In Kingdom Hearts, Sora gets beat up by several characters from this video game series, including Cloud Strife and Squall Leonheart. Sephiroth, another character from this series, is featured in an optional fight and subplot.
In the original Kingdom Hearts, Sora wishes to give one of these star-shaped fruits to Kairi as a symbol of his affection. It's the keychain on Kairi's Destiny's Embrace.
Kingdom Hearts II [do not accept or prompt on “Kingdom Hearts”]
Final Fantasy
paupou fruit
Fortunately, this isn’t actually a bonus about SNSD songs, but rather one about how they’ve become so damn popular. For 10 points each:
This term coined by S.M. founder Lee Soo-man refers to the extremely successful K-Pop business model of factory-like training of musical acts and collaboration with local markets to enable easy localization.
Localizing K-Pop acts in this country is easy because it’s nearby and its language is grammatically very similar to Korean. Enmity about this country’s imperialism prevents acts from here from easily doing the same in Korea.
This specific term is commonly used to refer to the worldwide growth in popularity of Korean popular culture.
cultural technology [or culture technology; or CT; or munhwa kontenteu gisul; accept plausible translations of that phrase like “culture content technology”]
Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]
Korean wave [or Hallyu]
A director from this country cast more than a hundred amateur actors in a movie about a murder on Guling Street, and depicted the life of a family led by NJ in another movie. For 10 points each:
Name this setting of A Brighter Summer Day and Yi Yi. A director from this country made A City of Sadness and The Assassin, which was screened at Cannes in 2015.
Another Taiwanese director besides Edward Yang and Hou Hsiao-Hsien is Ang Lee, who adapted this film about the relationship between two cowboys in Wyoming from an Annie Proulx story.
Inexplicably, Brokeback Mountain lost the 2005 Best Picture Oscar to this film about racial tensions in Los Angeles. David Cronenberg adapted a J. G. Ballard novel of the same name.
Taiwan [or Republic of China; don’t accept just “China”]
Brokeback Mountain
Crash
The creator of Colossal Cave Adventure denied that he came up with this sequence from a mnemonic for performing cross products.
Identify this sequence of five letters that was often used as a "magic word" in early video games. For example, typing it into Minesweeper produces a white pixel that indicates whether or not your mouse pointer is hovering over a mine.
The website Pretend You're Xyzzy is a popular online simulator of this Apples to Apples-like "party game for horrible people." Its developers' Black Friday antics include raising its price by five dollars and offering boxes of literal bullshit.
Typing "xyzzy" into this text-based game only leads to the unhelpful response "A hollow voice says 'Fool.'" This game warns that in total darkness, "you are likely to be eaten by a grue."
xyzzy
Cards Against Humanity
Zork
A couple played by Emmanuelle Riva and Jean-Louis Trintignant deal with the wife's stroke in this director's film Amour. 
Name this director of Funny Games and The White Ribbon. 
These are the names of the husband and wife in Amour. The central couples in Haneke's films The Seventh Continent, Benny's Video, Funny Games, Code Unknown, Time of the Wolf, and CachÃ© also have these names. 
In Funny Games, a character breaks the fourth wall by winking at the camera. The fourth wall is also frequently broken in this Woody Allen film about Alvy Singer's relationship with Diane Keaton's title character. 
Michael Haneke
Georges and Anne [instead of "Anne," accept: Anna] 
Annie Hall
She scored a goal at minute 117 to force a penalty shootout in the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup Final. 
Name this attacking midfielder who leads Japan in international caps and goals. 
Sawa's team lost the 2015 Women's World Cup when this American midfielder scored three goals in the first sixteen minutes of the final. 
Carli Lloyd plays for the Dash, a soccer team in this city which is also home to the teams that employ J. J. Watt and James Harden.
Homare Sawa
Carli Anne Lloyd
Houston, Texas 
Answer the following about one of the greatest and most beloved actors of our generation: The Rock. 
One of the greatest moments in this film occurs when The Rock is fighting Memnon, who dips his swords into a ceremonial fire basin and they fucking burst into flame. It's a spin-off of The Mummy Returns. 
In Get Smart, The Rock plays the double-crossing Agent 23, whose nuclear football is analyzed by Max to deduce that the final notes of this symphony will trigger a nuclear bomb.
 In the famed Halftime Heat match, an empty arena match between The Rock and Mankind that aired during the halftime of the 1999 Super Bowl, one of the craziest pins of all time occurred when the Mankind pinned The Rock with what kind of vehicle? 
The Scorpion King
Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 [or: Beethoven's "Ode to Joy" Symphony] 
forklift truck 
 Answer the following about Mallory Ortberg's "Texts from {insert real life figure here}" series on The Toast,
This painter texts "do you think dozens of terrified nudes have to flee inside of an egg to escape the fanged mermaids", a scene depicted at the top of his painting The Garden of Earthly Delights.
This poet texts "Bring me my Bow of burning gold; / Bring me my Arrows of desire: / Bring me my Spear: O clouds unfold! / Bring me my Chariot of fire!", lines from a poem of his that closes "In England's green and pleasant Land".
Mallory Ortberg's book is about this literary character, who refuses to marry someone with TWO TICKETS TO INDIA and tells him to marry Rosamond instead.
Hieronymous Bosch
William Blake
Jane Eyre
Name some musicians from New Jersey, 
 This dude nicknamed "The Boss" is backed by the E Street Band.
This punk band referenced Springsteen with the line "Tramps like us, baby we were born to die!" on their Civil War-inspired album The Monitor, which quotes the Lyceum address and the first issue of The Liberator.
Glenn Danzig founded this punk band, whose albums include American Psycho and Famous Monsters. Their creatively-titled singles include "Land of the Dead," "Twilight of the Dead," and "Night of the Living Dead."
 Bruce (Frederick Joseph) Springsteen
Titus Andronicus
The Misfits
 Jerry Stiller plays one of these characters who constantly falls asleep, Dennis O'Hare plays one who insists that everyone gives blood, and Ana Gasteyer plays one who demands that each proffer of an opinion be accompanied by the phrase "in my opinion." 
Name these recurring guest roles on a CBS drama.
 Jerry Stiller is better known for shouting "serenity now!" and inventing Festivus as this character's father on Seinfeld.
This actor played the basketball playing judge Edward Weldon on The Good Wife. He played Martin Luther King Jr. in Selma.
judges on The Good Wife
George Constanza
David Oyelowo
Carlos Quentin was suspended for eight games after sparking a bench clearing brawl by charging the mound against this pitcher, who in 2012 became the first pitcher in almost 90 years to start three games in a row. 
Name this pitcher who won the AL Cy Young award in 2009 while pitching for the Kansas City Royals.
Greinke currently pitches for this team, which is managed by Don Mattingly and also employs Clayton Kershaw and Adrian Gonzalez.
In 2015, Greinke's forty-five and two thirds inning scoreless streak was ended when this Mets starting pitcher grounded into a fielder's choice. After the 2012 season, he broke his finger while castrating a calf.
Zack Greinke
Los Angeles Dodgers [prompt on: "Los Angeles"]
Jacob de Grom
 This athlete has been unanimously acclaimed the funniest person in Trainwreck. 
Name this athlete who often randomly texts "Do you know Cleveland is great for the whole family?" to the Bill Hader-played Aaron Conners because he has free texting. 
This actor plays Amy's confusingly not-homosexual boyfriend, Steven, who castigates Amy for annoying people in a movie theater because "Everybody wants to fight the big guy!". In the greatest prank call of all time, Z Morning Zoo drives a woman insane by advertising a pay-per-view involving this "former decorated member of the United States Marine Corps".
The first time Amy meets LeBron James, he'd driven forty minutes back to Aaron's office to retrieve this item. LeBron emphatically states "I'm not giving [a store for these items] another thirty dollars!". 
LeBron James [or: LeBron Raymone James, King James] 
John Cena
sunglasses 
Answer the following about African cinema, 
 In Neill Blomkamp's District 9, aliens land in this country. The forced removal of the aliens from District 9 was inspired by events that took place in this country's District Six during Apartheid. 
This Senegalese director dealt with female genital mutilation in his last film, MoolaadÃ©. His other films include Black Girl and Xala, the latter of which is based on one of his own novels. 
 This film by the Malian director Souleyman CissÃ© is about a magical struggle between Niankoro and his father Soma. 
Republic of South Africa
Ousmane SembÃ¨ne
Yeelen [or: Brightness] 
 This song opens with a woman remarking "Oh my God, Becky. Look at her butt." 
Name this song that resurged into pop culture after several samples of it were incorporated into Nicki Minaj's "Anaconda." It begins with Sir Mix-a-Lot stating that he "cannot lie" about liking big butts.
The Nicki Minaj-will.i.am collaboration "Check It Out" repeatedly samples a two-measure loop from this song. It begins "I heard you on the wireless back in '52," and was somewhat ironically the first song aired on MTV.
In "Right Thru Me," Nicki Minaj reused the beginning of this guitar virtuoso's track "Always with Me, Always with You," which appears on Surfing with the Alien. The melody of Coldplay's "Viva la Vida" was similar enough to another of his tracks to warrant a lawsuit.
 "Baby Got Back"
 "Video Killed the Radio Star"
Joe Satriani [or: Satch, since he does have a track called "Satch Boogie"]
In the last part of this sequence, Hurricane Jasmine Forsythe kills LeBron James and the rest of the Miami Heat. 
Name this six episode television arc which primarily features its protagonist's relationship with his neighbor Evanka's Hungarian speaking niece Amia.
 The "Elevator" episodes appeared in the fifth season of this comedian's namesake TV show on FX. He pioneered directly selling tickets for his tours, and frequently jokes about raising his two daughters
Louis C.K. had a role in this directorial debut of Ricky Gervais, in which Gervais plays a man tasked with writing lecture films about the 1300s.
 "Elevator"
Louis C.K.
 The Invention of Lying
 A Chris Cagle song notes "we were stumblin' our way through life 'til our senior year but man we sure did learn a lot" in one of these places.
Name these places which also frequently serve as RV waystations as relayed in the documentary This Is Nowhere and the photography of Nolan Conway.
This 2011 film was allegedly set in a Walmart parking lot and allegedly depicted a woman being dragged from a Mercedes. It apparently does not exist despite Adam Schefter and Mike Florio's reporting to the contrary.
Dez Bryant plays for this NFL team. It is owned by Jerry Jones and employs Tony Romo.
Walmart parking lots
Dez Bryant video [accept any answer that includes Dez Bryant]
Dallas Cowboys
This author's "The Punishment of X4" concerns a robot that removes a bolt on a bridge between two planets, killing thousands. 
Name this pseudonymous author whose "The Man With the Miniature Orchestra" begins "There were phrases of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony that still made Coe cry."
Dave Algonquin is the pseudonym of Ken Cosgrove on this AMC TV show which followed advertising executive Don Draper. 
Lee Pace stars in this other AMC period drama which focuses on the personal computer revolution in Texas. 
Dave Algonquin [prompt on: either name of "Ken Cosgrove"] 
Mad Men
Halt and Catch Fire
This man appeared in early 90s Nike commercials in which he said that "the purpose of technology is not to confuse the brain but to serve the body" in advertising the Air Max line. For 10 points each:
Name this writer who appeared in the music video for Ministry's "Just One Fix," played the old junkie Tom in Drugstore Cowboy, and was played by Kiefer Sutherland in the 2000 movie Beat.
Another early 90s Nike commercial featured this 1970 John Lennon song, which was produced by Phil Spector and includes the refrain "we all shine on."
This Portland, Oregon-based ad agency was inspired by the last words of Gary Gilmour to create the Nike slogan "Just Do It." It is also behind ESPN's "This is SportsCenter" commercials.
William [Seward] Burroughs [III] [accept William Lee]
"Instant Karma!"
Weiden+Kennedy [or W+K]
Answer the following about films referenced in NBC's Community, for 10 points each.
In season two, Jeff joins Abed for a meal at a "restaurant for grown-ups," despite having planned a surprise Pulp Fiction birthday party for him. After hearing a made-up story about how Abed soiled his pants on the set of Cougar Town, Jeff learns that Abed had been trying to act out this 1981 film.
Abed's documentary on Dean Pelton's attempt to create a new TV commercial for Greendale emulates this film based on footage shot by Eleanor Coppola. The Dean's obsessive demands harms the mental health of Annie, Troy, and Britta, echoing the production problems for a Francis Ford Coppola project documented in this film.
In a season four episode, Troy, Annie, and Abed escape from Shirley's Thanksgiving dinner using a hole in the wall covered by a poster, referencing this film in which Andy Dufresne escapes prison in a similar manner.
My Dinner with Andre
Hearts of Darkness: A Filmmaker's Apocalypse
The Shawshank Redemption
This album samples a man ranting about getting arrested over some parking tickets, and a mysterious transmission from the film Prince of Darkness, in its track "Stem/Long Stem/Transmission 2." For 10 point each:
Name this album that also features an obnoxious voice sample saying "it's the money!" in the track "Why Hip-Hop Sucks in '96." Daniel Nakamura helped produce this debut album of DJ Shadow.
Endtroducing... was supposedly made using only an Akai audio sampler, a tape recorder, and the Technics SL1200 model of these machines, which are colloquially known as "decks."
Two turntables were used in the first of this set of five pieces by the composer of Sonatas and Interludes. Its fourth entry uses twelve radios and its fifth entry uses magnetic tape of any 42 recordings.
Endtroducing...
turntables [prompt on "record player(s)" or "phonograph(s)" or equivalents]
Imaginary Landscapes [by John Cage]
Identify the following about some Major League Baseball owners, for 10 points each.
David Glass, the owner of Royals, had earlier served as CEO of this company, in which capacity he stated "You and I might, perhaps, define children differently" when confronted by a Dateline reporter about evidence of child labor. A woman whose fortune comes from this company founded the Crystal Bridges Museum of Art.
Jim Crane, owner of this team, was fined $2 million for the racist policies of his Eagle Global Logistics Company, including Crane allegedly saying, "Once you hire blacks, you can never fire them". These basement dwellers are coming off three hundred-loss seasons and moved from the NL to the AL West in 2013.
John Malone, the owner of this team, once appeared on the cover of Wired in the guise of Mad Max, and now is the largest private owner of land in the entire country. A previous owner of this team served as its manager for one day after dismissing Dave Bristol.
Walmart [or Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.]
Houston Astros [accept either underlined answer]
Atlanta Braves [accept either underlined answer]
Brady Hoke coached this school's football team before he downgraded to Michigan.
Name this university that plays in the Mountain West Conference and whose recent basketball players include Jamaal Franklin and Kawhi Leonard. Tony Gwynn played here and coached this school's baseball team before his death.
San Diego State's current basketball coach is this guy who upgraded after previously coaching Michigan. At Michigan he coached the Fab Five and was embroiled in the Ed Martin stuff.
Fisher coached this 2014 Mountain West Player of the Year after his transfer from Washington State. The Nets took this combo guard in the second round of the 2014 NBA Draft.
San Diego State University [do not accept or prompt on San Diego]
Steve Fisher
Xavier Thames
This figure begins most of his appearances by whispering "Hi" with his knuckles interlocked, and his counterpart employed by the First Lady is named Catendra.
Identify this exuberant bald man who is tasked with helping the President express his frustrations.
Obama's anger translator was a recurring character on this Comedy Central sketch show. Other notable sketches include "Substitute Teacher" and "East/West College Bowl," in which football players have ever-more ridiculous names like "Davoin Shower-Handel" and "Donkey Teeth."
Jordan Peele and Keegan-Michael Key plan to collaborate with this director of Superbad, Bridesmaids , and Knocked Up on an upcoming comedy.
Obama's anger translator [or Luther]
Key &amp; Peele
Judd Apatow
he 61st issue of this comic was re-penciled by Marshall Rogers after Todd MacFarlane's terrible artwork was rejected.
Name this 1982 to 1994 Marvel series, widely regarded as rising above its cartoon basis in storylines such as "Snake-Eyes: The Origin" and "Cobra Civil War."
The success of the G.I. Joe comic was mostly due to the military background of this Vietnam veteran, its writer. This mid-90s writer of Wolverine also created Bucky O'Hare.
Hama also wrote twelve issues for two series about this character, a hero of the Hyborian age who battles the schemes of the wizard Thoth-Amon.
G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero
Larry Hama
Conan the Barbarian
This band used a sinister Farfisa organ on their ode to a blow-up doll, "In Every Dream Home a Heartache," which appears on their album For Your Pleasure.
Name this campy English art-rock band led by Bryan Ferry whose songs include "Do the Strand," "More Than This," and "Love Is the Drug."
Roxy Music's first two albums featured electronic "treatments" by this musician, whose solo albums include Another Green World and Ambient 1: Music for Airports. He also created the Oblique Strategies cards, and with Daniel Lanois co-produced many U2 albums.
Andy Mackay from Roxy Music plays saxophone and this wind instrument, which is prominently featured on songs such as "Virginia Plain." Lindsay Cooper of Henry Cow played this instrument on songs like "Half Asleep, Half Awake."
Roxy Music
Brian Peter George St. John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno
oboe
This group's lead singer wrote "Kurt smells like Teen Spirit", inspiring Kurt Cobain to write his breakout hit.
Identify this band founded by Kathleen Hanna at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington. They recorded tracks like "Lil Red" for their debut full-length, Pussy Whipped.
Bikini Kill helped ignite this movement, associated with radical feminist zines and punk rock. Calamity Jane was another band in this movement.
Kathleen Hanna also appeared dancing and wearing pigtails in a music video by this alt-rock band where vocalist Kim Gordon sang lyrics like, "Ten, twenty, thirty, forty / Tell me that you want to hold me". In the early '90s they released the albums Goo and Dirty.
Bikini Kill
RioT GrrrL
Sonic Youth
This character buys dozens of copies of the Newark Star Ledger after his name appears in the it.
Name this character who constantly feuds with Paulie and is the long-time fiancÃ© of Adriana La Cerva.
Christopher Moltisanti is the cousin of this guy who, after overthrowing his Uncle Junior, runs the DiMeo crime family in northern New Jersey. This guy was the main character on a show on HBO created by David Chase.
While in deep gambling debt, J.T. Dolan, a friend of Chris's, attempts to sell this item, but the pawn shop will only give him $15 for it. J.T. would eventually help write Chris's film The Cleaver.
Christopher Moltisanti [accept Christopher Moltisanti; accept Chrissy Moltisanti]
Tony Soprano [accept Anthony Soprano; accept Anthony Soprano]
Emmy Award
Identify some critically lauded videogames of 2013,
This game designed by Lucas Pope casts you as a border agent in the nation of Arstotzka. You have to do things like look for EZIC agents and decide when to accept bribes.
The 15 page long Wikipedia article on "List of accolades received by [this game]" has it winning Cheat Code Central's 7th Annual Cody Award for Best Xbox Game. You play as a former Pinkerton named Booker DeWitt in this game, which it set in the city of Columbia in 1912.
This best Ouya game was acclaimed for its use of local coop where each player try to kill each other with a finite supply of arrows in its battle royale mode. It was developed by Matt Thorson, and an expanded "Ascension" edition made it to PS4 and Steam.
Papers, Please
Bioshock: Infinite
Towerfall: Ascension
This song was produced by Diplo and features string arrangments by Nico Muhly which come to the fore when the singer asks "Why do I care at all?"
Name this 2012 quiet storm song about two people who "don't wanna give in / So we just give up" after reaching the title state, where they are "going nowhere fast." 
"Climax" is from the album Looking 4 Myself by this R&amp;B artist whose songs include "Confessions Part II" and "Yeah!," which features Lil Jon and Ludacris.
This indie rock group covered "Climax" on the Triple J program "Like a Version." They are perhaps more famous for songs like "Stillness is the Move" and albums like Mount Wittenberg Orca, a collaboration with BjÃ¶rk.
"Climax"
Usher Raymond IV [accept either underlined portion]
Dirty Projectors
The title character of this film had directed movies called Ants in the Plants and Hey Hey in the Hayloft. For 10 points each
Name this movie starring Joel McRae and Veronica Lake in which the title director lives among the poor to research a movie entitled O Brother, Where Art Thou?.
Sullivan's Travels was a movie by this director of The Lady Eve who talked Harold Lloyd out of retirement to star in The Sin of Harold Diddlebock.
Sturges' movie The Lady Eve starred Henry Fonda and this actress who talks Fred MacMurray's Walter Neff into murdering her husband in the Billy Wilder film Double Indemnity
Sullivan's Travels
Sullivan's Travels was a movie by this director of The Lady Eve who talked Harold Lloyd out of retirement to star in The Sin of Harold Diddlebock.
Barbara Stanwyck
This policy was created in a 1922 opinion by Oliver Wendell Holmes on the grounds that "personal effort, not related to production, is not a subject of commerce." For 10 points each:
Name this policy that, despite the erosion of its commerce rationale, was upheld in Toolson v. New York Yankees and Flood v. Kuhn and is in effect to this day.
Non-baseball sport leagues have similar antitrust protections because of the labor exemption in this 1914 act, which beefed up the Sherman Antitrust Act. Its Section 7 governs mergers
The insurance industry also has antitrust immunity, thanks to legislation sponsored by Homer Ferguson and this longtime Democratic senator from Nevada, known for hating commies.
Major League Baseball antitrust exemption [accept any answers that demonstrate knowledge that baseball leagues are not subject to antitrust laws]
Clayton Antitrust Act 
Patrick Anthony McCarran
The song "Could I leave you?" is part of a sequence in this musical that reveal the loveless marriage of two main characters, Phyllis Rogers and Ben Stone, whose late song "Loveland" mocks the characters for their lives' disappointment. For 10 points each
Name this musical about the 30th reunion of the title vaudeville act, whose late torch song "Losing My Mind" reveals Sally Durant's lifelong obsession with the aforementioned Ben.
Name this musical about the 30th reunion of the title vaudeville act, whose late torch song "Losing My Mind" reveals Sally Durant's lifelong obsession with the aforementioned Ben.
In a song from Follies titled by this three-word sentence, the singer says she's "been through Herbert and J. Edgar Hoover" and recounts the ups and downs of show business. 
Follies 
Stephen Sondheim
I'm still here 
The rules changes accompanying this expansion included a replacement of the "batch" system for spell resolution timing with a last-in-first-out "stack," and the changing of classic interrupt spells such as Counterspell into instants. For 10 points each
Name this set released in 1998, a controversial core set of Magic: the Gathering.
Sixth Edition was preceded by Urza's Saga, a block with many of this type of permanent cards. The Mirrodin blocks were also themed around these cards which, unlike enchantments, can be tapped for activated abilities and are almost always colorless.
This head designer of Magic: the Gathering removed mana burn from the game's rules for the Magic 2010 core set after refusing to do so for Sixth Edition. This witty author of the online "Making Magic" column has more or less had the game handed over to him by its creator, Richard Garfield.
Magic: the Gathering Sixth Edition [or Magic: the Gathering Classic]
artifact cards 
Mark Rosewater [prompt on MaRo]
This character uses his Hoveround to fend off a mob including Alf in a trench coat, Menorah the Explorer, and human traffic cones from chasing a man who just broke off his marriage to Anderson Cooper. For 10 points each:
Name this giant 300-pound Chinese baby who wears tinted aviator glasses and spins records with his little ravioli hands.
DJ Baby Bok Choi can be found along with Germphs and a Teddy Ruxpin wearing mascara at Taste, one of the many bizarre clubs described by this Bill Hader-played city correspondent on Weekend Update. 
DJ Baby Bok Choi can be found along with Germphs and a Teddy Ruxpin wearing mascara at Taste, one of the many bizarre clubs described by this Bill Hader-played city correspondent on Weekend Update. 
DJ Baby Bok Choi
Stefon
Bruce Vilanch
[missing]
Name this game from It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia which has been won 18 times in a row by the Golden Geese and which is also known as the "Game of Games."
Marsh-gammon, a drinking game, is played with a Candy Land board and Twister wheel by Marshall Eriksen and Ted Mosby on this CBS sitcom.
his drinking game from Fox's The New Girl involves avoiding lava and begins when someone yells "1, 2, 3, 4, JFK."
Chardee MacDennis 
How I Met Your Mother 
True American
. It was the age of low-budget music videos and bands fronted by former hairdressers. Name the following New Wave songs from descriptions of their videos for 10 points each:
There were so many mirrors on its set that the reflection of the camera can be seen in this A Flock of Seagulls video.  Strangely dressed women walked zombie-like towards a tinfoil-draped camera while Mike Score sang that despite doing this "all night and day/I couldn't get away."
Inspired by a 1984 movie, this song's video featured Johann HÃ¶lzel dressed in a tuxedo while walking through a crowd from the court of Joseph II, then dressed as the title character while being carried through a biker bar.
This song by Real Life shares its name with a hit by the Scorpions.  As David Sterry sings "Do you believe in heaven above/do you believe in love," a beauty-and-the-beast pursuit plays out in this medievally-themed video.
: I Ran (So Far Away)
Rock Me Amadeus (Johann HÃ¶lzel is Falco's real name)
Send Me An Angel
They have won 23 national league titles and play their home games at Allianz Arena.  For 10 points each:
Name this soccer team, who on May 25th defeated Borussia Dortmund 2-1 to become champions of Europe for the fifth time.
Bayern's clinching goal came in the 89th minute when this Dutch right winger took a backheel from Franck RibÃ©ry and put the ball past Roman Weidenfeller.  As he had assisted Mario Mandzukic's opening goal, this former Real Madrid player was also voted UEFA Man of the Match
This "short, fat" striker nicknamed "Der Bomber" played a key role in Bayern's run of three straight European Cups from 1974 to 1976.  He also was the top scorer in the European Cup four times and top scorer in the Bundesliga seven times.
FC Bayern Munich [accept FuÃŸball-Club Bayern MÃ¼nchen, prompt on "FCB" or "Die Roten"]
Arjen Robben
Gerhard "Gerd" Miller 
This conflict's short timespan led to its alternate nickname, the 100-Hour War. For 10 points each:
Name this Central American war fought on the eve of riots surrounding a FIFA World Cup qualifier
The Soccer War boiled over after the United Fruit-sponsored FENAGH organization pressured Honduran president Oswaldo Lopez Arellano to strip squatters and farmers with this status of their land.
This national hero of El Salvador was the highest-ranking officer killed in the Soccer War; he was shot down in urban air combat, but heroically kept his plane aloft until he reached an unpopulated area.
Soccer War [or Football War; or La guerra de fÃºtbol]
 immigrants from El Salvador [accept migrants, Salvadorians, or equivalents of either]
Guillermo Reynaldo Cortez
A popular drinking game in the 1980's was to drink whenever someone greeted the title character with the word "Hi." For 10 points each:
Name this show about a Chicago psychologist, Dr. Hartley. Many scenes of this show were one-sided telephone conversations, a schtick taken from its namesake actor's stand-up routine.
This woman played Bob Hartley's wife Emily. The last episode of Bob Newhart's second sitcom, Newhart, ends with him waking up in bed and telling this woman "Honey, you won't believe the dream I just had."
Pleschette also appeared in this Alfred Hitchcock movie as Annie Hayworth, a schoolteacher whose eyes are pecked out by the title critters.
The Bob Newhart Show
Suzanne Pleschette
The Birds
Assassin Al Simmons was murdered on a mission in Botswana, leading to his becoming this figure. For 10 points each:
Name this Todd MacFarlane creation that gained his powers through an agreement with the ruler of the 8th circle of hell, Malebolgia.
This character from Spawn recently debuted in the Marvel Universe for reasons yet unknown. Spawn testified during her trial that she had had permission to kill him, and they started dating until she died fighting Malebolgia.
Angela was able to be brought over to Marvel because this writer won her rights in one of his many court battles. In addition to the novels American Gods and Good Omens, this writer penned a series about Dream and the other Endless.
Spawn
Angela
Neil Gaiman
A month after being fired by a college team, this man managed to fail upwards right into a job as the Dolphins offensive coordinator. For 10 points each:
Name this former Packers head coach. The Dolphins drafted Ryan Tannehill in part because this man had been his college coach.
This defensive tackle blindsided Chad Clifton in a 2002 game, leading to a profanity laced confrontation with Mike Sherman. He announced his retirement in 2008 by posting "I'M DONE!" on his website qbkilla.com.
 Sapp proved to be out of his mind when he tried to argue on air that this former teammate was better than Michael Strahan, saying he was better "every day of the week and twice on Sunday." This rusher set the University of Illinois single season record with 16 sacks.
Mike Sherman
Warren Sapp
Simeon Rice
A Youtube user pitch-shifted the first single off this album to make Pharell Williams sound like Michael Jackson while maintaining runtime, and Chilly Gonzales composed the track "Within" to change the key of this album. For 10 points each:
Name this 2013 album which features the single "Get Lucky" and a lengthy narration by Giorgio Moroder
Random Access Memories is the latest album by this duo that wears masks in all performances and used the chorus of one of their songs in a collaborative single with Kanye West.
 This singer provides guest vocals for the track "Instant Crush". He also collaborated with The Lonely Island on a track where he cries out that "a boombox is not a toy".
Random Access Memories
Daft Punk
Julian Casablancas
You are a hypothetical seven year old figure skating fanatic in the mid-1990s. Answer these questions about your fandom, for 10 points each.
Your absolute favorite skater is this Olympic Gold Medalist, who in 1982 became the first American man to land a triple axle, five years before introducing a namesake form of the triple lutz.
You were completely devastated when you found out that this skater had been attacked by her rival Tonya Harding. You basically cried when you saw her clutching her leg crying out in pain "WHY?!"
One of the most bothersome parts of watching your favorite competitions is that they almost all feature the commentary of this remarkably tiny skater. In 2006, he was called on to host Fox's disastrous "Skating With Celebrities".
Brian Boitano
Nancy Kerrigan
Scott Hamilton
Answer the following about the soundtrack Jay-Z put together for Baz Luhrmann's 2013 adaptation of "The Great Gatsby", for 10 points each.
This founder of Third Man Records provided a cover of U2's "Love is Blindness". A previous foray into the world of movie soundtracks saw this man partner with Alicia Keys to write "Another Way to Die" for the Quantum of Solace soundtrack.
This singer asked "will you still love me when I no longer" have the title qualities in her song "Young and Beautiful", which was also covered by the Bryan Ferry Orchestra for the movie. You might know her as Sparkle Jump Rope Queen.
This English indie band released their new single "Together" as part of the soundtrack, and leaked their 2012 album Coexist to a single fan to see how fast it would go viral.
Jack White III [or Three Quid; or John Gillis]
Lana Del Rey [or LDR; or Lizzy Grant; or May Jailer; or Elizabeth Woolridge Grant; or Lana Rey Del Mar]
The xx
 This organization recently opened a "school for supervillains," as a counterbalance to the Jean Grey School of Higher Learning. For 10 points each:
Name this secret society whose upper leadership uses chess pieces as pseudonyms. For many years, they were led by "Black King" Sebastian Shaw.
After Jean Grey died, this former White Queen of the Hellfire Club began a long-term relationship with Scott Summers. After being rescued from Genosha, she developed a diamond form as a secondary mutation.
This set of five identical, telepathic sisters were students under Emma Frost. They originally shared a single hive mind, and were revealed to have been cloned from Frost's eggs.
Hellfire Club
Emma Frost [or Emma Frost]
the Stepford Cuckoos
This franchise was the first major team in American sports to lose 10,000 games, and there is no DH in the National League because this team's owner was fishing during the vote. For 10 points each:
Name this major league team that, before the 2013 season, acquired Michael Young from Texas and signed Delmon Young off a scrap heap.
This controversial Phillies General Manager recently took a shot at people who compile prospect rankings, for some reason. He notoriously gutted the Phillies minor league system to acquire Hunter Pence, and insisted that he didn't care about walks, only production.
Among the prospects traded for Hunter Pence was this pitcher who made his major league debut in 2013, pitching eight scoreless innings with only 2 hits allowed. It's a good thing the Phillies don't need pitching or anything.
Philadelphia Phillies [or Philadelphia Phillies]
Ruben Amaro, Jr. [or RAJ]
Jarred Cosart
In one episode, four villains on this show teamed up to form the Beat-Alls, and that group is broken up with the help of the "performance crime"-committing Moko Jono. For 10 points each:
Name this Cartoon Network show created by Craig McCracken, in which Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup save Townsville from villains.
This woman is the girls's kindergarten teacher at Pokey Oaks. She briefly dated Professor Utonium, but broke up with him because she refused to believe he was being controlled by an evil cat.
This former classmate of the girls decided that if she could not be a Powerpuff Girl, there would be NO POWERPUFF GIRLS. This extremely wealthy brat was a member of the Beat-Alls and tried to join the Rowdyruff Boys because of her crush on Brick.
The Powerpuff Girls
Miss Keane
Princess Morbucks
This album includes the use of a theremin on a song later covered by Weezer, in which the singer claims "we will wade in the shine of the ever", and "hold my head we'll trampoline". For 10 points each:
Name this album that includes the singles "Dig a Fire" and the aforementioned "Velouria".
Bossanova was the third album by this alternative band, and marked the high point of Black Francis's creative control. Kim Deal was the only applicant to a classified ad for a bassist for this band, even though she had never played bass before.
This short song was the final track on the album Bossanova. In it, the singer is "walking in the breeze on the plains of Arizona, among the trees".
Bossanova
The Pixies
"Havalina"
This character still doesn't know what eclectic means, claimed there were "bubbles in his eyes" after drinking 16 liters of cherry soda, and greeted Rupert Murdoch with an enthusiastic "hakuna matata!". For 10 points each:
Name this "Fox and Friends" co-host played by Bobby Moynihan. He insisted that if Tupac was a hologram, the bullet would have passed right through him.
At the end of every "Fox and Friends" sketch, a list of corrections scrolls across the screen. One set of corrections claimed that these characters are "not elected," "not appointed," and that these characters are, in fact, cartoons.
The real Brian Kilmeade briefly gained notoriety after he hit a small child in the face on live TV with one of these objects. That child was the star of a video on the internet where he showed uncanny skill using one of them.
Brian Kilmeade
smurfs
a toy basketball
Veronica gives the title group of this movie airtime after production is halted on the show "Punch Teacher". For 10 points each:
Name this movie in which Tex Richman plans to drill for oil unless its title group can raise ten million dollars through a telethon.
The Muppets in narrated by this resident of Smalltown who tags along with Gary and Mary and fills a gap in the telethon with his whistling. Jim Parsons plays this character's human reflection during a musical number.
Chris Cooper's Tex Richman character has a vendetta against the Muppets that originates from his tenth birthday party, where a certain inability led him to repeatedly speak this phrase later in life as he carries out his evil plan.
The Muppets [do not accept or prompt on "The Muppet Movie"]
Walter
"maniacal laugh
The speech of the characters in this game was created by scrambling recordings of the voice actors reading their lines. For 10 points each:
Name this stunning Clover Studio title in which you play the wolf Amaterasu, using the Celestial Brush to fight enemies and solve puzzles.
In Okami, a full astral pouch gives you this benefit. In DotA and various clones, the token that you get from killing the tough monster in the middle of the map does this.
Although yen is the official currency in Okami, vendors will part with rarer items if you trade them for these items. In the Playstation 2 and 3 versions, you can get them by mashing X on the loading screen.
Okami
reviving you [or anything along the lines of bringing you back to life; do not accept or prompt on "healing you"]
Demon Fangs
An actress in this movie asked if her breasts could get their own place in the credits, and a character receives a painting of Jesus playing hockey as a gift. For 10 points each:
Name this movie in which Agent Ashburn and Detective Mullins, who is played by a former Gilmore Girls actress, attempt to catch the up-and-coming drug lord "Larkin".
This actor plays the ex-con brother of Detective Mullins. He previously starred on the tragically short-lived sitcom "The War at Home" and played Frank on "My Name is Earl". He was named MVP of the 2010 NBA All-Star Celebrity Game for his shutdown defense on Terrell Owens.
In a mid-credits scene, Mullins notes that she was driving around and saw this "little asshole". Ashburn then admits that he actually belongs to the neighbors.
The Heat
Michael Rapaport
Pumpkin [prompt on "her cat"]
This man collaborated with his wife Brenda Braithwaite on the social networking game Ravenwood Fair. For 10 points each:
Name this long-haired id Software co-founder, who once promised to "make you his bitch" in an ad for his much-hyped, yet awful game Daikatana.
Romero was coasting off the success of his involvement in many of id's projects, such as Wolfenstein 3D, Quake, and this other horror first-person shooter in which you play a space marine who works his way up from a simple pistol to the BFG 9000.
Before Romero became a developer, he idolized Jordan Mechner for producing this beat-em-up game, which was remade in 2012. Its hero assumes a fighting stance and fights wave after wave of enemies inside Akuma's fortress
John Romero [or Alfonso John Romero; accept John rome.ro]
Doom
Karateka
This catalytic sequence was first identified in the tobacco ringspot virus.  FTPE
Name this RNA sequence that folds into a secondary structure consisting of four Watson-Crick base-paired helices separated by two internal loops, named for the extended tertiary structure it can adopt.
This author wrote the story "The Hairpin," about a man who commemorates the woman he once loved with a framed square of white satin stuck with a hairpin.  He also wrote about Georges Duroy, who rises in society by manipulating his wealthy mistresses, in Bel Ami
According to Apollodorus, this mother of Heracles gouged out Eurystheus' eyes after his death using hairpins or weaving pins
hairpin ribozyme 
Guy de Maupassant 
Alcmene or Alcmena 
This singer inexplicably asserted "Now it's like Murder She Wrote, once I getcha out of them clothes" in his song "Ignition (Remix)", while the ninth part of one work ends with him shouting "Midget! Midget! Midget!" FTPE:
Identify this "King of R&amp;B" famous for the multiple Grammy Award-winning "I Believe I Can Fly" and the genre-defining "Trapped in the Closet". 
The Hood Internet created a brilliant mashup of R. Kelly's "I'm a Flirt" and this band's "7/4 Shoreline". This Canadian indie collective was founded by Kevin Drew and Brendan Canning and counts Leslie Feist among its members.
The video for R. Kelly's "Down Low (Nobody Has to Know)" was apparently based on this 1946 Charles Vidor movie, in which Glenn Ford's cheating gambler Johnny Farrell has a love-hate relationship with the title character, portrayed by Rita Hayworth
R. Kelly [or Robert Sylvester Kelly]
Broken Social Scene [prompt on "BSS"]
Gilda 
Before resigning, Cox rejected a hilarious compromise floated by the Nixon administration to allow this elderly Mississippi senator to listen to the Watergate tapes and summarize them for the special prosecutor. This guy had a notorious hearing problem and was almost killed in a mugging earlier that year.
This Texas-born singer sang about those who supported desegregation, but not in their own districts, in "Love me, I'm a Liberal." He protested nuclear proliferation, the Bay of Pigs, and United Fruit in that great tune "I Ain't Marching Anymore.
This musician, who "went electric" at the Newport Folk Festival, often refused to talk to journalists who called him a protest singer. On his album Desire, he sang about a black "man the authorities came to blame." He also sang about "Chimes of Freedom" and refusing to work "Maggie's Farm."
This Canadian and Cree Indian wrote protest songs like "Now that the Buffalo's Gone," "My Country Tis of Thy People You're Dying, and her best-known track "Universal Soldier." She also co-wrote Mike Cheyne's favorite song, the Joe Cocker-Jennifer Warnes classic "Up Where We Belong." 
Phil Ochs
Bob Dylan or Robert Zimmerman
Buffy Sainte-Marie 
This character continuously butts heads with Tenzin and the chief of police Lin Bei Fong. FTPE:
Name this successor to Aang, who recently arrived in Republic City and is a member of the Fire Ferret Pro-Bending Team along with Mako and Bolin. 
The Legend of Korra appears on this television channel, which also showed its predecessor, Avatar: The Last Airbender.
Just like the game show Nickelodeon Guts, this tournament will end with the three best teams trying to climb this final obstacle. This simulated mountain on Guts featured a series of buzzers for players to hit on their way up, and enough confetti and strobe lights to make those 12-year olds think they were at a drag party. 
Korra 
Nickelodeon
Aggro Crag (or Super Aggro Crag, or Mega Crag if the player is particularly awesome and remembers that season) 
One character in this film declares "there's no sense in nonsense, especially when the heat's hot," while another objects that stormtroopers are just "blue collar workers." FTPE
Name this film inspired by a real advertisement placed in the October 1997 issue of Backwoods Home magazine by editor John Silveira, which became an internet meme
The central female character Darius in Safety Not Guaranteed is played by this actress-slash-comedian who's pigeonholed herself into playing sarcastic and disaffected youths, like Julie Powers in Scott Pilgrim, and April Ludgate on Parks and Recreation
The film's male lead Mark Duplass is also known for playing this character who owns the title fantasy football league on the FX series The League, and divorced his wife played by Leslie Bibb
Safety Not Guaranteed 
Aubrey Plaza
Pete Echkart (accept either name)
 Thomas Eakins painted one of these people seated on a green chair and singing, while a Takashi Murakami sculpture of one of these figures ejaculates in front of a blue screen.  For 10 points each:
Identify this profession.  Kid Russell was known as this type of artist, and an actress named Viva got raped in a controversial scene from an Andy Warhol film titled for these types of people
In addition to painting works like Fall of the Cowboy, this man created well-loved sculptures like Bronco Buster.  
Remington was related to this American painter, who specialized in American Indian paintings. In 1838, he set up a touring Indian Gallery of his works, which the government refused to buy. It ultimately fell into the hands of the Smithsonian, however.
Lonesome Cowboy
Frederic Sackrider Remington
George Catlin
13. This was the first year that Topps made baseball cards. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this year in which Sy Berger's groundbreaking Topps set included a #1 card of Andy Pafko that was often ruined by rubber bands. 
[10] Although the 1951 Bowman set also contained a depiction of him, the 1952 Topps set contains the "rookie card" of this Yankees centerfielder, a switch-hitter who died of liver failure in 1995. 
[10] Among modern rookie cards, the 1989 Ken Griffey Jr. card from this brand is ascendant. This company decided to feature Griffey on its #1 card in 1989, its debut year. 
ANSWER: 1952 [prompt on '52] 
ANSWER: Mickey [Charles] Mantle [prompt on The Mick] 
ANSWER: Upper Deck Company LLC 
This school is the only team to win both the NIT and NCAA basketball tournaments in the same year. For 10 points each:
Name this college which won those titles in 1950, a year before a point-shaving scandal busted several of their star players. This school dropped down to Division III afterwards, while nearby Long Island University temporarily shut down its entire athletic program.
After the scandal, this SEC school suspended basketball play for one season for its role. At the time, this team was coached by Adolph Rupp and it is currently coached by John Calipari.
A later point shaving scheme occurred at Boston College in the 1970's and involved this mobster, who is more famous for becoming a FBI informant and having his story told in the book Wiseguy and the film Goodfellas.
City College of the City University of New York [accept City College and CCNY, accept Beavers, prompt on City, prompt on City University of New York or CUNY]
University of Kentucky Wildcats [accept either]
Henry Hill Jr.
TV Guide gave out awards for "Distinguished Foolishness" named after this entity. For 10 points each:
Name this chimpanzee who was a popular fixture on NBC's morning schedule during the 1950's, where he partnered with Dave Garroway. He was dressed like a baby in diapers and engaged in general goofiness.
At the time, Garroway was hosting this NBC morning show, which is currently hosted by Matt Laurer, Ann Curry, and Al Roker, with a fourth hour hosted by Kathie Lee Gifford and Hoda Kotb.
Both the Today and Tonight programs were the brainchild of this president of NBC. His daughter is an actress who played Dr. Augustine in Avatar as well as playing the female lead in Ghostbusters and Gorillas in the Mist.
J. Fred Muggs [accept Fred or Muggs]
Today [or The Today Show]
Sylvester "Pat" Weaver
Identify the following about families in the NFL, for 10 points each.
Perhaps the most famous current dynasty is composed of the two quarterback sons of this former Ole Miss standout, who spent his entire NFL career playing for the unbelievably shitty 1970s Saints.
This current Chargers receiver, who wears number 80, was inexplicably named both for and by his older brother, who played the same position for the Oilers from 1994 to 1997. Their father took one letter out of the younger one's first name to distinguish them.
Two linebackers with this surname currently play in the NFL. Brandon was drafted out Florida by the Patriots, while his older cousin, who was named after Japanese Prime Minister Takeo Miki, spent most of his early career with the Bengals and Bills but now plays for the Chargers.
Archie Manning [prompt on "Manning"; don't accept any other mannings]
Malcom Floyd [or his older brother, Malcolm Floyd]
Spikes
It's about time for a bonus on trash literature. For 10 points each:
This colon-loving author of A Coast of Trees and Tape for the Turn of the Year won the National Book Award for his book-length single-sentence poem in couplets, Garbage.
This waste management executive has an affair with the artist Klara Sax, who paints a field full of decomissioned bombers. He ends up staying with his wife Marian in the novel he appears in, Don Delillo's Underworld.
The US gives Canada a big garbage dump called "The Great Concavity" in this gigantic David Foster Wallace tome about the Incandenza family, the Enfield Tennis Academy, and a bunch of other crap.
Archie Randolph Ammons
Nick Shay [accept either]
Infinite Jest
Identify the following things relating to Old Man Murray, for 10 points each.
The OMM article "Who Killed Adventure Games?" suggests that Jane Jensen must've been "too busy reading difficult books by Par Lagerkvist" to use any sort of common sense in constructing puzzles for the third game in this Sierra series, which stars the titular New Orleans horror novelist-slash-Schattenjaeger.
Perhaps the most famous OMM article described a review system based on the time it takes the player to see either one of these objects or their close cousins, barrels. The article also posits that these objects are the answer to Homo habilis's eternal question, "Where can I hide my armor and health?"
Of course, you may know OMM's writers Chet Faliszek and Erik Wolpaw better for their work on this 2007 Valve game. It stars Chell, GLaDOS, and the Weighted Companion Cube.
Gabriel Knight [or Gabriel Knight 3: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned]
crates [accept very close synonyms, like boxes]
Portal
Identify the following breeds of dog, for 10 points each.
The Cardigan and the Pembroke Welsh are the two varieties of this adorable breed, notable for their short legs. They are kept by Queen Elizabeth II.
The breed standard for these adorable Japanese dogs describes their "spirited boldness, good nature, and unaffected forthrightness". You may remember them from their starring role on that Puppy Cam that was all the rage in 2008.
This Hungarian sheepdog, not to be confused with the larger Komondor, is notable for its long curly hair, which often grows to resemble dreadlocks. It is considered waterproof.
Corgi
Shiba Inu [or Shiba Ken]
Puli
Answer the following about doctors, for 10 points each.
This physician wrote a work detailing the "Resemblance between diabetes and chronic diabetes." In that book, The Relation of Alimentation and Disease, he argues against eating lots of fruits and vegetables, instead recommending that you eat his namesake steak.
This long-running ER character was played by Noah Wyle. Throughout the various seasons of the show, he is stabbed by the schizophrenic Paul, and he goes to Africa only to be taken gunpoint.
This Cartoon Cartoon repeatedly featured Dr. Vindaloo, an Indian doctor who repeatedly tells the titular canine that "It's nothing to worry about, nothing at all" in a nonsensical Indian accent.
John Henry Salisbury
John Carter
Courage, the Cowardly Dog
Dave Marsh coined the term "punk rock" in a 1970 review of one of this band's shows. For 10 points each:
Identify this band whose lead singer claimed to be a Martian who'd lived with dinosaurs. They sang about "too many teardrops for one heart to be cryin'" in their biggest hit, "96 Tears."
The second-biggest hit by ? and the Mysterians was this song, originally recorded by The Toys, in which the singer states "Whenever we kiss, I get to feeling like this, I get to wishing that there was two of you". It also saw substantial success when it was covered on another band's album Astro Lounge.
Astro Lounge, which contained great tracks like "Then the Morning Comes" and "All Star", was released by this band, which first gained fame for the 1997 single "Walking on the Sun."
? and the Mysterians ["question mark"]
"Can't Get Enough of You Baby"
Smash Mouth
In 1963, this pitcher matched up against Warren Spahn in a 1-0 pitching duel that went 16 innings. For 10 points each:
Name this pitcher known as the "Dominican Dandy." Sporting a high leg kick, this Hall of Famer may unfortunately be best known for angrily hitting opposing catcher Johnny Roseboro with a bat in a 1965 game.
Marichal played for this National League West team, noted for its fierce rivalry with the Los Angeles Dodgers. More recently, a fan of this team was severely beaten at Dodger Stadium after the 2011 season opener.
In another moment in the Dodgers-Giants rivalry, the Giants eliminated the Dodgers from playoff contention in 1982 on the last day of the season thanks to a homer by this veteran second baseman. This man would rejoin teammate Tony Perez the next season on the so-called "Wheeze Kid" Philadelphia Phillies squad.
Juan Antonio Marichal Sanchez
San Francisco Giants [accept San Francisco or Giants]
Joe Morgan
. Identify some things designed by I.M. Pei that aren't the fucking Louvre pyramid, for 10 points each.
Two overlapping glass pyramids adorn the front of this Cleveland building, which is perched on the shore of Lake Erie and features a cantilevered theater wing and a large circular exhibit wing. You can see some Trabants from U2's Zoo TV tour hanging in the lobby, if you're so inclined.
Pei actually didn't design this Boston skyscraper--his partner Henry Cobb did. If Pei had designed it, maybe it wouldn't've been plagued by falling panels of mirrored blue glass or an unusually nauseating sway.
Erik Jonsson's desire to reinvent the image of the city he was mayor of eventually led to Pei designing this municipal building, a cantilevered inverted pyramid.
the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
the John Hancock Tower [or Hancock Place]
Dallas City Hall
