For 10 points each—answer the following about Joan Didion’s career as a film critic:
Didion got her start writing film reviews for this magazine before moving to California. This magazine was edited by Diana Vreeland from 1963 to ‘71.
This other critic also wrote film reviews for Vogue in the mid-60s, some of which are collected in the book Kiss Kiss Bang Bang. She is better known for her 23-year stint as film critic for the New Yorker.
Legendarily, Kael and Didion were both fired in the same year for panning this 1965 movie, which Kael called a “sugar-coated lie” and Didion called a “suggestion that history need not happen to people.” Didion also suggested that this movie musical implies a lesbian relationship between Maria von Trapp and the Mother Superior.
Vogue
Pauline Kael
The Sound of Music &lt;DS&gt;
This song states “Knife and fork are on the table, there's nothin' in my pan / And if you say anything about it, havin' trouble with the man.” For 10 points each:
Identify this blues song that originated among prisoners in the American South. It’s titled for a train the singer asks to “shine the light on me”.
John and Alan Lomax attributed “Midnight Special” to this singer, who may have gotten his nickname from a mispronunciation of his surname or from being shot in the stomach. His other songs include “Goodnight Irene” and “Black Betty.”
Lead Belly played in a style of blues from this state. The Lomaxes were based at a university in this state, which also produced Janis Joplin, Stevie Ray Vaughan, and Willie Nelson.
“Midnight Special”
Lead Belly [or Huddie Ledbetter]
Texas &lt;DS&gt;
<em>Note to moderator: “Btfsplk” is “pronounced” by blowing a raspberry.</em> Characters in this comic strip included the impossibly collateral damage-prone Dick Tracy parody “Fearless Fosdick” and the walking bad luck charm “Joe Btfsplk,” who is always shadowed by a personal rain cloud. For 10 points each:
Name this influential comic strip that follows a title member of the redneck Yokum family in the “Dogpatch.” Andy Capp’s use of political satire in this comic inspired strips like Pogo and Doonesbury.
Li’l Abner popularized the term “skunkworks,” which this company adopted for its main research site. This company made the SR-71 Blackbird and the over-budget F-35.
Li’l Abner also featured these fast-breeding bowling pin-shaped creatures, which briefly destroy greedy corporations’ profit margins by, for example, happily frying themselves for the hungry.
Li’l Abner
Lockheed Martin [the Skunk Works was founded prior to Lockheed’s merger with Martin Marietta, so only Lockheed Corporation is needed]
Schmoos &lt;JG&gt;
Tsai Ming-Liang’s film <em>Goodbye Dragon Inn</em> includes a five minute shot of one of <em>these</em> empty locations after it closes down for the final time. For 10 points each:
Name this type of location. The protagonist of Buster Keaton’s Sherlock Jr works at one of these locations.
The characters in Tsai’s film are saying goodbye to Dragon Inn, a film by this wǔxía [woo-shyah] director who also made A Touch of Zen.
Dragon Inn and Goodbye Dragon Inn are both films from this country. Other directors from this country include Edward Yang and the director of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Ang Lee.
movie theatres [or cinemas]
King Hú [or Hú Jīnqúan]
Taiwan [or Republic of China or ROC; do not accept or prompt on just “China”] &lt;DS&gt;
This artist stood naked holding a decapitated chicken and allowing its blood to spill all over her body in the work <em>Untitled (Death of a Chicken)</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this artist best known for her “earth-body” artworks. She smeared herself in blood to reenact the murder of a fellow student in Untitled (Rape Scene).
Mendieta’s “earth-body” artworks were exemplified by her series of Siluetas, which were made with this substance. Tibetan Buddhists often create mandalas using colored versions of this substance.
In 2016, Galerie Lelong put on an exhibit of Mendieta’s works in this medium, which included Creek and Ochún. This medium was used in works like Electronic Superhighway by Nam June Paik.
Ana Mendieta
sand [accept dirt; prompt on gravel, sediment, and other similar answers]
video [or film or movie or other obvious equivalents; prompt on pictures] &lt;WJ&gt;
This singer supposedly moved her prime minister to tears with a 1962 performance of the patriotic song “Aye Mere Watan Ke Logo.” For 10 points each:
Name this singer with over a thousand film credits. She won a Filmfare Special Award for the 1992 song “Didi Tera Devar Deewana.”
Filmfare Awards are given to films from this popular film industry of India. This Hindi-language industry stereotypically features elaborately choreographed song-and-dance numbers.
Mangeshkar is one of these singers, who do not appear on-screen but instead pre-record the songs, which the actors then lip-sync. These singers can be contrasted with ghost singers, who dub their parts in after the fact.
Lata Mangeshkar
Bollywood
playback singers &lt;JR&gt;
This sutra’s title figure falls silent when it is his turn to explain the principle of non-duality. For 10 points each:
Name this often humorous Mahayana sutra, whose title layman spends much of the text pretending to be ill. It was particularly popular in East Asia.
One of the main doctrines of the Vimalakirti Sutra is this concept, which refers to the lack of svabhava or “own-being.” Theravada Buddhists often take this concept to refer to the non-self.
Vimalakirti’s main interlocutor is one of these figures named Manjushri. Avalokiteshvara was one of these figures, who are on the path to buddhahood.
Vimalakīrti (Nirdeśa) Sutra
shunyata [accept sunyata or suññata; accept emptiness or voidness]
bodhisattva &lt;JR&gt;
The second “Day” of this film begins with the chorus “Wach’ auf” from the Act III prelude of Wagner’s <em>Meistersinger</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 1935 film, much of the set for which was designed by Albert Speer.
In a 1967 interview with this film critic, Leni Riefenstahl claimed that Triumph of the Will had no political agenda, but rather simply depicted “the truth as it was then in 1934.” This American critic popularized the term “auteur theory” and wrote the massively influential book The American Cinema.
Triumph of the Will was also an inspiration for this director’s propaganda documentary series Why We Fight. This man directed It Happened One Night and It’s a Wonderful Life.
Triumph of the Will [or Triumph des Willens] (by Leni Riefenstahl)
Andrew Sarris
Frank Capra &lt;JR&gt;
Signs reading “Tweet your feet!” encouraged visitors to photograph themselves and <em>this</em> object, whose original design by SRG Partnership was removed to great outcry in 2015. For 10 points each:
Name this teal object. It was patterned with dark blue T-shapes intended to resemble airport runways viewed from overhead.
The PDX carpet bedecked an airport south of the Columbia River in this state, whose tourist attractions include Mount Hood and the rainwater-filled ex-volcano Crater Lake.
Oregon’s Malheur National Forest is home to the largest known example of these things, covering over three square miles of land.
Portland International Airport carpet [or PDX carpet; prompt on Portland International Airport or PDX; prompt on answers such as “PDX floor”]
Oregon
fungi [or funguses; or myceliums; or mycelia; or honey fungus; or fungal rhizome network; or Armillaria mellea; or Armillaria solidipes; anti-prompt on mushrooms] &lt;MJ&gt;
In this musical, the Jewish fruit shop owner Herr Schultz gifts a pineapple to his lover Fräulein Schneider in the song “It Couldn’t Please Me More.” For 10 points each:
Name this musical set at the Kit Kat Klub. Alan Cumming reprised his Tony Award-winning role as the Emcee in its 2014 Broadway revival, which starred actresses such as Emma Stone and Michelle Williams as Sally Bowles.
This composer-lyricist duo collaborated on Cabaret, as well as Chicago. They also wrote the jazz standard “New York, New York,” which was popularized by Frank Sinatra; name both members.
In the song “If You Could See Her,” the Emcee sings about his love of a woman dressed in this fashion. He concludes the song by singing, “If you could see her through my eyes, she wouldn’t look Jewish at all.”
Cabaret
John (Harold) Kander AND Fred Ebb [accept in either order]
dressed in a gorilla suit [do not accept being dressed as a monkey or any other primate] &lt;WJ&gt;
Matt Taibbi, who criticized the prosecution of this bank in his book <em>The Divide</em>, is interviewed in a 2016 documentary in which he contrasts this institution with those “too big to fail.” For 10 points each:
Name this small bank, owned by the Sung family, that was the only financial institution prosecuted in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis despite its relatively low mortgage default rate. Hoop Dreams director Steve James made an Oscar-nominated documentary about how this bank was “small enough to jail.”
Abacus is based in this neighborhood in Lower Manhattan, which has been overtaken in size by a rapidly growing satellite neighborhood in Flushing.
Abacus: Small Enough to Jail aired on this TV network’s Frontline program. Jim Lehrer and Judy Woodruff have hosted this network’s flagship NewsHour program.
Abacus Federal Savings Bank [accept Abacus: Small Enough to Jail]
Chinatown [or Mànhādùn huábù]
PBS [or Public Broadcasting Service]
<em>Forbes</em> writer Adam Penenberg’s discovery that there was no such business as Jukt Micronics led this man to confess that an article he had written on Ian Restil, a teenage hacker, was fraudulent. For 10 points each:
Name this disgraced journalist who fabricated many news stories in the mid-1990s.
Glass fabricated stories while working for this American political magazine. In 2017, Leon Wieseltier came under fire for allegedly sexually harassing many women while working as its literary editor from 1983 to 2014.
Shortly before the release of the film Shattered Glass, in which Hayden Christensen plays Stephen Glass, Jayson Blair was revealed to have fabricated stories for this newspaper. David Brooks is an opinion columnist for this “newspaper of record.”
Stephen Glass [or Stephen Randall Glass]
The New Republic [prompt on “TNR”]
New York Times [accept NYT; prompt on “Times” or “The Gray Lady”]
In one work, this hotel is described as “being a total space, a complete world, a kind of miniature city.” For 10 points each:
Identify this John Portman-designed hotel in Los Angeles that Edward Soja called a “concentrated representation of the restructured spatiality of the late capitalist city.”
The Bonaventure is compared to Disneyland and Utopia in Postmodernism, a work by this director of the Center for Critical Theory at Duke.
Ian Buchanan’s “metacommentary” Deleuzism notes that the Westin Bonaventure is down the street from locations where “some of the very best scenes” in this film were shot. This Ridley Scott film was based on Philip K. Dick’s Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Westin Bonaventure Hotel [prompt on answers mentioning “Westin”]
Fredric Jameson
Blade Runner
Answer the following about the use of rock, soul, and funk instrumentation in jazz, which led to the creation of jazz fusion, for 10 points each.
This keyboardist helped pioneer jazz fusion as a member of Miles Davis’s second quintet. As a bandleader, he released the seminal jazz-funk album Head Hunters.
Hancock started using this company’s iconic Rhodes electric piano while playing in Davis’s quartet. This company’s electric guitars include the Jazz Bass and the Stratocaster.
Hancock made heavy use of the Rhodes and other new electronic instruments while recording a trio of experimental albums, including Crossings and Sextant, under this Swahili pseudonym.
Herbie Hancock [or Herbert Jeffrey Hancock]
Fender [or Fender (Electric) Musical Instruments Corporation]
Mwandishi
This song was originally titled “Blue Ball,” but that title was changed at the request of a radio DJ who deemed it inappropriate. For 10 points each:
Name this twelve-bar blues standard, used as the closing song for a big band “orchestra” for over 50 years. Players on its original 1937 recording include Lester Young on saxophone and Buck Clayton on trumpet.
“One O’Clock Jump” was the signature song of this pianist’s jazz orchestra. He was earlier a member of the Kansas City-based Barons of Rhythm, and often played a popular arrangement of “April in Paris.”
Basie’s Barons of Rhythm was formed by members of this other pianist’s band after his death following a failed surgery. He was a pioneer of the swing sound and recorded the song “Kansas City Shuffle.”
“One O’Clock Jump”
Count Basie [or William James Basie; accept Count Basie Orchestra]
Bennie Moten [or Benjamin Moten]
This author coined the term “country noir” to describe his 1996 novel <em>Give Us a Kiss</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author from Missouri whose novel Winter’s Bone was adapted into a 2010 film of the same name starring Jennifer Lawrence.
Woodrell lives in, and sets most of his novels in, this hilly region of Missouri that extends into Arkansas and Oklahoma. Its namesake “lake” is created by the impounding of the Osage River.
Woodrell’s novel Woe to Live On was adapted into the film Ride with the Devil by this director, who adapted Rick Moody’s novel The Ice Storm into a 1997 film of the same name.
Daniel Woodrell
Ozarks [accept Ozark Mountains or Ozark Plateau or Lake of the Ozarks]
Ang Lee
This neighborhood’s bakery La Joven Francesca claims to have invented a type of white bread loaf that unusually contains a small amount of fat from lard or shortening. For 10 points each:
Name this neighborhood in Tampa, Florida that has historically had a large number of Spanish- and Italian-speaking immigrants who worked in cigar factories.
Tampa’s Ybor City neighborhood and the city of Miami both claim to have invented this sandwich, whose traditional ingredients include ham, roasted pork, swiss cheese, pickles, mustard, and, in Tampa, salami.
Ybor City has a number of social clubs dedicated to this form of social welfare, which was championed as “a factor in evolution” in a 1902 book by Peter Kropotkin.
Ybor City
Cuban sandwich [or cubano; accept Cuban mix or mixto or Cuban pressed sandwich]
mutual aid
Minimalist Joe Goode used one of these things to make each of the 30 editions of an otherwise identical set of prints unique. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of object that Chris Burden had a friend use on him to make a 1971 performance art piece.
This man created “shotgun art” by shooting a shotgun at spray-paint cans placed in front of canvases. He became an author after accidentally killing his common-law wife, Joan Vollmer, while drunkenly reenacting William Tell.
The art exhibit Guns in the Hands of Artists resulted in a book containing essays by, among other people, Lupe Fiasco, Richard Ford, and this former Arizona congresswoman who was shot by Jared Lee Loughner in 2011.
guns [or rifles; or shotguns; or firearms; accept equivalents]
William S. Burroughs [or William Seward Burroughs III]
Gabby Giffords [or Gabrielle Dee Giffords]
In this scene, Vargas jokes that he is “hot on the trail of a chocolate soda for my wife” before the camera shifts its focus to a woman who frantically claims to hear a “ticking noise” in her head. For 10 points each:
Name this scene from a 1958 film that was shot by cinematographer Russell Metty. The camera tracks two couples as they move through a town on the Mexican border in this scene, which ends with the explosion of a car.
This director of Touch of Evil, despite the enduring acclaim for the opening shot, supposedly considered a longer continuous shot in the film, set inside an apartment, to be superior. He also directed Citizen Kane.
This much earlier Alfred Hitchcock film uses a crane shot to reveal the identity of a murderer. In that shot from this film, the camera glides over a hotel ballroom to eventually fixate on the twitching eyes of a blackface drummer.
opening scene of Touch of Evil [accept first scene (or equivalents) or crane shot or tracking shot in place of “opening scene”; prompt on “long take” in place of “opening scene”]
Orson Welles [or George Orson Welles]
Young and Innocent
In this show, Reno Sweeney predicts that even a sniff of cocaine would bore her in “I Get a Kick Out of You.” For 10 points each:
Name this classic musical set aboard an ocean liner that contains the hit song “You’re the Top.”
The music for Anything Goes was written by this composer, who won the inaugural Tony for best musical with Kiss Me, Kate.
Frank Sinatra later found success covering many of Cole Porter’s hits on Capitol Records with the help of this legendary arranger, who also arranged Great American Songbook standards for such artists as Linda Ronstadt and Ella Fitzgerald.
Anything Goes
Cole Porter [or Cole Albert Porter]
Nelson Riddle [or Nelson Smock Riddle Jr.]
Stephen Sondheim praised the “cleverness, humor, even a pseudo-aphoristic grace” of British examples of these things and singled out the one in <em>The Listener</em> as particularly worthy of praise. For 10 points each:
Name these things that Sondheim, on the request of Gloria Steinem, produced for New York magazine in the late 1960s.
In 1942, people who solved the Daily Mail’s crossword in a matter of minutes were secretly invited to join the British cryptanalysts at this “park,” where Alan Turing was trying to break the Enigma code.
Fred Jesson is obsessed with crosswords, to the detriment of his marriage, in the David Lean film Brief Encounter, whose screenplay was written by this playwright and based on his play Still Life. He also wrote the play Hay Fever.
crossword puzzles [or crosswords; accept cryptic crosswords or crucigram(a)s; prompt on “puzzles”]
Bletchley Park
Noël Coward [or Noël Peirce Coward]
A tracking shot of the Griffith Park Observatory was recorded using this medium for the opening shot of the film <em>Last Days in a Lonely Place</em>, part of a series of films commemorating filmmaker Mark Lapore. For 10 points each:
Name this artistic medium that Phil Solomon used to generate found footage in his In Memoriam trilogy. Solomon’s shot of the Brooklyn Bridge in Still Raining, Still Dreaming is from Grand Theft Auto IV, a work in this medium.
This art museum made a controversial decision to add video games to its permanent collection in 2012. Design curator Paola Antonelli oversaw an exhibit modeled on Philip Johnson’s Machine Art 1934 show at this museum.
One of the first entries in the MoMA’s video game collection was this 2007 work by Jason Rohrer. In this game, the player character moves from left to right as he ages and experiences life events before invariably dying at the end.
video games [accept machinima; prompt on “games”]
Museum of Modern Art [or MoMA]
Passage
This director illustrated the isolation of a horsekeeper during a lonely winter by using a set of identically framed shots of a stable door opening onto varying amounts of snowfall. For 10 points each:
Name this American director who adapted stories by Maile Meloy (MY-lee mah-loy) into her film Certain Women, which explores the landscape and people of Montana through the lives of three women. She also directed Wendy and Lucy.
In this black-and-white Alexander Payne film, David drives his father hundreds of miles from Montana to claim a cash prize he thinks he’s won. In its closing sequence, the father proudly drives a new truck through his hometown.
The prairies and suburban landscapes of the modern American heartland are also a subject of To the Wonder, a film by this director that is partly set in Oklahoma. His films Days of Heaven and The Tree of Life have similar themes.
Kelly Reichardt
Nebraska
Terrence Malick [or Terrence Frederick Malick]
The <em>sura</em> al-Ma’ida, or “The Table,” which forbids eating animals killed by blunt force, is the source of a dispute over whether stunned animals then slaughtered by this method can be eaten. For 10 points each:
Name this method of slaughter that begins with the animal’s throat being cut swiftly with a sharp blade, severing the trachea and both sets of jugular veins and carotid arteries while avoiding the spinal cord.
Dhabihah slaughter comports with Islamic dietary law, which is described by this Arabic word that means “permissible” and is contrasted with haram.
Foods that are neither halal nor haram are placed in this third category of “doubtful” or “suspect” foods.
dhabihah [or zabihah]
halal
mushbooh [or mashbooh; or mushtabih]
Konishiki failed to achieve this feat because a fifteen-member deliberation council felt that as a foreigner, he lacked the necessary quality of <em>hinkaku</em>, or grace and dignity. For 10 points each:
Name this athletic feat later accomplished by the Hawaiian Akebono in 1993. In January 2017, Kisenosato became the first Japanese person in nineteen years to achieve this feat after winning the Hatsu basho as an ōzeki with a 14–1 record.
Yokozuna is the highest rank in this national sport of Japan. In November 2017, the yokozuna Harumafuji retired from this sport after he hit the lower-ranked Takanoiwa in the head with a beer bottle, fracturing his skull.
Before Kisenosato, the four previous sumo wrestlers to become yokozuna all came from this country. The Naadam festival in this country includes competitions in its “Three Manly Skills” of wrestling, horse racing, and archery.
becoming yokozuna [prompt on but DO NOT REVEAL descriptive answers like achieving the highest rank in sumo]
sumo wrestling
Mongolia [or Mongol Ulus] &lt;EC, Other Academic&gt;
Answer the following about soccer stadium disasters, for 10 points each:
In the deadliest ever soccer stadium disaster, at least 328 people were killed in the Estadio Nacional in this capital city during a qualifier for the 1964 Olympics. Police sprayed tear gas to prevent fans from rushing the field following a disallowed goal, and fans who tried to escape were crushed against closed steel shutters.
In 1989, 96 people died in this stadium after police superintendent David Duckenfield opened a gate allowing more fans to enter overcrowded standing-only pens. The Sun notoriously reported that “Some fans picked pockets of victims” and “urinated on the brave cops” during that disaster in this stadium.
Most of the victims of the Hillsborough disaster were fans of a team from this city known as The Reds. Hooligans of that team from this city instigated the Heysel (“HY-zul”) Stadium disaster by charging at Juventus fans, causing English clubs to be banned from European competitions for five years. The Beatles were also from this port city.
Lima, Perú
Hillsborough (“HILZ-bruh”) Stadium
Liverpool &lt;EC, European History&gt;
This man asked a room of engineers “Who in the audience drives a stick shift?”, to which most of the room proudly raised their hands, leading this man to tell them “None of you should ever design a user interface.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who formulated “Seven Stages of Action” in his book The Design of Everyday Things, which brings a psychological perspective to that field. That work popularized the term “user-centered design.”
Norman gave that address at this Bay Area facility that developed the graphical user interface and the Smalltalk programming language. It was founded as the research division of a printing company.
Xerox PARC created the Alto, the first computer to use a graphical user interface and use one of these devices. Invented by Doug Engelbart, this device used a trackball and wheel to allow users to point and click on icons.
Don Norman [or Donald Norman]
Xerox PARC [or PARC; or Palo Alto Research Center Incorporated]
mouse &lt;AK, Other Academic&gt;
A director with this surname made a short in which Ellion Ness performs a striptease which culminates in her removing her limbs and finally her head, before her torso blasts off into outer space. For 10 points each:
Identify this surname of Gunvor, the director of Take Off. A director with this surname lampooned racial stereotypes in Oh Dem Watermelons, which culminates in a watermelon chasing some white people up a hill.
A short by Gunvor Nelson consists of shots of her daughter of this name set to a hypnotic soundtrack based on the phrase “my name is [this].” This is also the name of Charlie Chaplin’s last wife, a daughter of Eugene O’Neill.
Gunvor Nelson’s My Name Is Oona and Robert Nelson’s Oh Dem Watermelons were scored in this musical style by Steve Reich. Movies like Koyaanisqatsi (“koh-yah-niss-COT-see”) were scored in this style by Philip Glass.
Nelson
Oona
minimalism [or minimalist] &lt;WN, Other Art (Film)&gt;
Name some things about contemporary jazz piano trios, for 10 points each:
Multiple albums titled Art of the Trio have been recorded by this pianist’s namesake trio, featuring bassist Larry Grenadier and drummer Jeff Ballard, which also recorded 2012’s Where Do You Start? His 2002 album Largo features a version of Paranoid Android, one of his many Radiohead covers.
Jeff Ballard joined this fusion pianist in many of his trios, one of which recorded 1968’s Now He Sings, Now He Sobs. His 2013 album Trilogy ends with a rendition of “Spain,” which this man first recorded as the bandleader of Return to Forever.
The Minneapolis trio The Bad Plus, known for its classic rock renditions, replaced pianist Ethan Iverson with a man with this surname in 2018. A pianist named Bill with this surname formed a trio with Scott LaFaro and Paul Motian (“motion”) that recorded Portrait in Jazz and Waltz For Debby after leaving Miles Davis’s Kind of Blue sextet.
Brad Mehldau (“MEL-dow”)
Chick Corea (“kor-AY-uh”) [or Armando Anthony Corea]
Evans [accept Orrin Evans or Bill Evans] &lt;RK, Other Art (Jazz)&gt;
Answer the following about civil rights history as told by Canadian Heritage Minutes, for 10 points each:
The second most viewed Heritage Minute on YouTube shows this “Rosa Parks of Canada” getting arrested for sitting in a whites-only area of a segregated theater. This owner of a line of beauty products for black women was given Canada’s first posthumous pardon in 2010 and will appear on the new ten-dollar note.
Another Heritage Minute explains why Maurice Ruddick, a black survivor of the 1958 Springhill mining disaster, accepted a segregated vacation offered by this state’s governor, Marvin Griffin. A 1964 Supreme Court case ruled that a motel in this state violated the Civil Rights Act by refusing black customers.
In a classic Heritage Minute, the crowd chants this man’s name after he hits a home run for the Montreal Royals. This second baseman later broke Major League Baseball’s color barrier by playing for the Brooklyn Dodgers.
Viola Desmond [or Viola Irene Desmond]
Georgia
Jackie Robinson [or Jack Roosevelt Robinson] &lt;EC, American History&gt;
A work by this composer uses a sine wave oscillator and a magnet to vibrate a long piano wire. For 10 points each:
Name this experimental American composer. In his piece I am sitting in a room, this composer repeatedly played and recorded a text he read until it became unintelligible to “smooth out any irregularities” caused by his stuttering.
The text in I am sitting in a room was recorded and played on this medium, which can be held in a reel or on a cassette. Steve Reich (“RYE’sh”) played loops of this medium at different speeds to create phasing in pieces like Come Out.
Lucier’s North American Time Capsule used an early one of these devices that take in a carrier signal and modulator signal, usually voice. Wendy Carlos and Robert Moog (“mohg”) created one used for the choral part of Beethoven’s Ninth in Stanley Kubrick’s The Shining, and Laurie Anderson used one throughout “O Superman.”
Alvin Lucier (“LOO-see-ur”)
magnetic tape
vocoder [or voice changer; or voice synthesizer; or speech synthesizer; or talk box; prompt on synthesizer] &lt;EC, Other Art (Auditory)&gt;
In the 2017 Chess World Cup, this Norwegian player suffered a surprising defeat at the hands of Chinese GM Bu Xiangzhi. For 10 points each,
Name this current Chess World Champion who earned his title after defeating Vishy Anand in 2013.
Carlsen has often played the Ruy Lopez opening with both the black and white pieces. In the Ruy Lopez, white’s light-squared version of this piece, that only moves diagonally, goes to B5 and attacks a knight.
Carlsen doesn’t play this defensive opening too much when playing as black. This opening that starts with 1.e4e6 [“One E 4, E 6”] has Exchange, Tarrasch and Winawer variations.
Magnus Carlsen
Bishop
French Defense [or ECO C00–C19] &lt;HB&gt;
US Soccer failed to qualify for the World Cup, so sadly, that makes it a good target for jokes and quiz bowl questions. So answer some questions on the USMNT, for 10 points each.
Christian Pulisic, the attacking midfielder on the US team, currently plays for this German club. This club’s logo prominently features the letters “BVB” and it is the second largest club in Germany after Bayern Munich.
After losing the match, this manager resigned. He had earlier led the US during its 2002 World Cup run and had come back as USMNT manager after the firing of Jürgen Klinsmann in 2016.
The US lost to Costa Rica 4-nil in November 2016 while competing in this association. This association is currently the third most successful after UEFA and CONMEBOL. Acronym acceptable.
Borussia Dortmund
Bruce Arena
CONCACAF (or The Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football) &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
One metal song of this type featured the members of Spinal Tap and guitar solos from the likes of George Lynch and Buck Dharma. For 10 points each:
The 1985 track "Stars" was what type of song?
This song kicked off the charity single craze and raised money for famine relief in Ethiopia.  Thusly, a common refrain in this song is “feed the world”, and this song ends with “Let them know it’s [the title time].”
Another Christmas-themed charity song is “I Feel It in My Bones” by this Las Vegas band, whose 2007 song “Don’t Shoot Me Santa” also had its proceeds sent to AIDS charities. This band released songs like “Run for Cover” in 2017.
charity single [or charity song; or charity album; or charity record]
"Do They Know It's Christmas?"
The Killers &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
After this man claimed Sparky Anderson would “never start two brothers against each other,” he was named the starter for the All-Star Game against the Oakland A’s Vida Blue. For 10 points each:
Name this activist and Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher who threw a 1970 no-hitter while allegedly high on LSD.
Ellis later played in this 1976 World Series for this team, the winner of a record 27 World Series. Its recent stars include Alex Rodriguez and Aaron Judge.
In addition to returning to Pittsburgh, Ellis played part of the 1979 season for this NL team. This team, lead that season by Dwight Gooden, won the 1986 World Series against the hapless Red Sox and Bill Buckner.
Dock Ellis
New York Yankees [prompt on New York]
New York Mets [again, prompt on New York] &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
Hawaiian “haupia” pudding is made primarily of this ingredient. For 10 points each,
Name this liquid in which rice balls are served for the Filipino desert “bilo bilo.” It may be best known as the white ingredient in pina coladas.
Coconut milk is an ingredient in “tom kha gai,” [tom caw guy] a Thai soup usually flavoured with lime and this other ingredient. An essential oil derived from this plant is called Citronella, alluding to this plant’s flavour.
“Oil down” stew, a favourite dish in Grenada, is made with meat and coconut milk alongside this other ingredient. This ingredient replaces taro in a version of poi Hawaiians call “poi ulu.”
coconut milk [prompt on coconut; do not prompt on or accept “milk”]
lemongrass
breadfruit &lt;DS&gt;
When this artwork was first imported into the United States, it was assigned a 40% tariff because the customs official did not believe it represented a natural form and therefore did not count as a sculpture. For 10 points each:
Name this alleged sculpture. It was classified under “Kitchen Utensils and Hospital Supplies” until the customs decision was appealed.
This artist came to testify on behalf of Brâncusi’s Bird in Space, stating that “If it is beautiful it could not have been made by a mechanic.” His own sculptures include The Rock Drill and the tomb of Oscar Wilde.
Somewhat ironically, Brâncusi’s sculptures had been brought to America by this other sculptor, whose readymades like Bottle Rack did include kitchen supplies and were in fact made by mechanics.
Bird in Space
Jacob Epstein
Marcel Duchamp &lt;Ed. DS&gt;
Residents of this city annually burn a spooky marionette effigy called Zozobra to symbolically destroy anxieties and failures of the previous year. For 10 points each:
Name this American city home to the interactive art installation and indoor theme park The House of Eternal Return, operated by the arts collective Meow Wolf.
This fantasy writer and Santa Fe resident owns the Meow Wolf facility. This author won the Hugo and Nebula awards for his novella Sandkings but is much better known for writing A Song of Ice and Fire.
George R. R. Martin recently signed on to produce an adaption of this other fantasy author’s Who Fears Death for HBO. This Nigerian-American author also wrote the Binti series.
Santa Fe, New Mexico
George R.R. Martin [accept GRRM]
Nnedi Okorafor &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
Answer the following about things you can learn about urban geography by playing the game Mini Metro. For 10 points each:
Lots of costly bridges are required to reach this area of Hong Kong. This region is often defined as the part of Hong Kong contiguous with the Chinese mainland.
Stations in Mini Metro in Osaka can be serviced considerably faster, since the player has the option to use these very fast Japanese trains often used for inter-city transit.
This city is located entirely on an island, which makes connecting it to outlying districts like Longueuil kind of annoying. The progressive Valerie Plante recently won a mayoral election in this city
New Territories
shinkansen [accept Bullet Trains]
Montreal &lt;JM&gt;
In the scene after this one, a character played by Uma Thurman overdoses on heroin before being saved by a needle of adrenaline to the heart. For 10 points each:
Name this scene, which depicts a certain action between two characters at a 1950s themed restaurant. The two characters in this scene are at the restaurant because Marsellus Wallace is out of town.
The dancing scene in Pulp Fiction occurs at this restaurant.
The song playing during the dance, “You Never Can Tell,” was recorded by this artist, who died in 2017.
the dancing scene in Pulp Fiction [accept answers such as Vincent Vega and Mia Wallace dancing; or twisting; or scene at Jack Rabbit Slim’s, but don’t mention the name of the restaurant]
Jack Rabbit Slim’s
Chuck Berry &lt;Ed. HB &amp; DS&gt;
No speech is audible during this film’s opening scene, during which Bill kills his supervisor in a steel mill. For 10 points:
Name this Terrence Mallick film, in which Bill’s girlfriend Abby marries a sick farmer to claim his riches, but gradually starts to fall in love with him.
Almost all of Days of Heaven was shot by cinematographer Nestor Almendros during this period of time just before sundown. Give the term used for this period, not the actual times at which it begins and ends.
In a notable scene in Days of Heaven, helicopters were used to scatter seeds and peanut shells in order to depict a swarm of these animals devouring a wheat field.
Days of Heaven
golden hour [accept magic hour]
locusts [accept grasshoppers] &lt;ed. DS&gt;
Modern love is an enduring subject in popular music, so answer some questions about references to it, for 10 points each.
This English band, fronted by Kele Okereke, included a track titled “This Modern Love” on its 2005 release Silent Alarm, which was apparently featured on How I Met Your Mother. You may be more familiar with their song “Helicopter.”
In the 70s, The Modern Lovers released a song about this figure, who “could walk down your street and girls could not resist his stare.” Thought not Tom Ford, a Jay-Z song named for this artist appears on Magna Carta Holy Grail.
This singer included the song “Modern Love” on his album Let’s Dance. He also recorded “Heroes.”
Bloc Party
Pablo Picasso
David Bowie &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
Critic Seth Simons’ review of this show’s fourth season was structured as a poem, beginning “I do not like the sad horse show.” For 10 points each:
Name this animated Netflix show set in Hollywoo and centering on a depressive equine former sitcom star.
The voice of BoJack’s publisher Pinky Penguin is provided by Patton Oswalt. Oswalt’s only credited voice role in a film was as Remy, the protagonist of this Pixar film.
BoJack’s entirely post-production-added performance in Secretariat earns him a Best Actor nomination, but not a win. Give the first and last name of any one of the four actors who are also nominated against BoJack for the award. One of them eventually won for his performance in The Nazi who played Yahtzee.
BoJack Horseman
Ratatouille
Mitt Dermon; Bread Poot; Lernernerner DiCarpricorn; or Jurj Clooners [real names not acceptable] &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
One song from this album open with “And you say Chi city! / Chi city! Chi city!” For 10 points each:
Identify this 2007 album that contains the song “Homecoming,” as well as the Daft Punk remix “Stronger.”
Graduation was the third album created by this rapper. This rapper also rapped about less than scrupulous women in “Gold Digger” on Late Registration, and more recently released Yeezus.
This musical artist was featured on the Graduation track “Drunk and Hot Girls.” He is perhaps better known for the songs “UMI Says” and “Mathematics,” where he gives a lot of numbers. Both songs are from his 1999 album Black on Both Sides.
Graduation
Kanye West [accept either]
Mos Def &lt;HB&gt;
For 10 points each, name some politically active artists who have been arrested for their works.
In a 2012 piece intended to criticize the church’s support for Putin, this punk band entered Moscow’s Cathedral of Christ the Saviour and started playing music until stopped by security. Two of them have been sent to prison camps.
This artist was arrested for “economic crimes” in 2011 and confined to a tiny cell for three months, during which state media attacked him as “a deviant and a plagiarist.” His best-known performance piece involves deliberately dropping a two thousand year old urn from his home country.
This Iranian director was arrested for anti-government propaganda in 2011 and banned from filmmaking for 20 years. Not to be deterred, he directed This Is Not a Film in secret and smuggled it out of Iran inside a cake.
Pussy Riot
Ai Weiwei
Jafar Panahi &lt;DS&gt;
Damian Wayne, the son of Bruce Wayne and Talia al Ghul, took up this role after the “Battle for the Cowl” storyline. For 10 points each:
Name this alias, which Dick Grayson took up in 1940’s Detective Comics #38, when he became Batman’s sidekick.
Dick Grayson was a founding member of the Teen Titans, whose member Terra betrayed them in the “Judas Contract” storyline. Terra was working for this adversary of the Titans during the storyline.
This writer and artist duo wrote and illustrated the “Judas Contract” storyline while working on the New Teen Titans comic. They were also the creative team behind Crisis on Infinite Earths.
Robin [or Robin the Boy Wonder]
Deathstroke [or Slade Wilson; or Slade Wilson; or Deathstroke the Terminator]
Marv Wolfman and George Perez [or George Perez and Marv Wolfman] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
In this novel, Hodge Backmaker travels from the backwater New York City to an academic co-op called <em>Haggershaven</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1953 novel by Ward Moore, a work of alternate history depicting a world in which the combustion engine was never invented and Thomas Dewey was elected president.
In Bring the Jubilee, Hodge uses one of these devices designed by Barbara Haggerwells. The Morlocks and Eloi meet the protagonist of an H. G. Wells novel titled for one of these devices.
In his best-known novel, The Guns of the South, noted alternate history writer Harry Turtledove wrote about a South African group who use time travel to achieve this result. Hodge Backmaker accidentally reverses this result in Bring the Jubilee, giving us our present timeline.
Bring the Jubilee
a time machine [or The Time Machine]
Confederate victory in the US Civil War [or any clear equivalent] &lt;Ed. HB &amp; DS&gt;
For 10 points each, name some politically active artists who have been arrested for their works.
In a 2012 piece intended to criticize the church’s support for Putin, this punk band entered Moscow’s Cathedral of Christ the Saviour and started playing music until stopped by security. Two of them have been sent to prison camps.
This artist was arrested for “economic crimes” in 2011 and confined to a tiny cell for three months, during which state media attacked him as “a deviant and a plagiarist.” His best-known performance piece involves deliberately dropping a two thousand year old urn from his home country.
This Iranian director was arrested for anti-government propaganda in 2011 and banned from filmmaking for 20 years. Not to be deterred, he directed This Is Not a Film in secret and smuggled it out of Iran inside a cake.
Pussy Riot
Ai Weiwei
Jafar Panahi &lt;DS&gt;
Answer the following about Sodium Chloride in memes. For 10 points each,
Jimmy Neutron offers to clean up a pile of Sodium Chloride he’s spilled, much to the consternation of his coworker, Skeet, in a meme set at this fast food restaurant whose signature catchphrase is altered by Jimmy to involve polyunsaturated fats and triglycerides.
Another meme centering on this recently-premiered television show involves its protagonist correcting his parents when they refer to “Sodium Chloride” as “salt.” Jim Parsons provides the narration to this show, which follows a future Caltech student’s upbringing in East Texas.
A very old meme involving Sodium Chloride, not to mention other chemical formulas, involves one of these animals skilled at chemistry. Icanhascheezburger was an early humor site dedicated to images of these cute animals.
McSpanky’s
Young Sheldon
cats &lt;JM&gt;
For 10 points, answer some questions about sci-fi films by Stephen Spielberg.
The title character of this Spielberg film is a cute alien who revives dead chrysanthemums, learns English by watching Sesame Street, and tries to phone home.
In Spielberg’s Minority Report, Tom Cruise plays a member of this law enforcement agency, which uses visions of the future to catch people before they violate the law.
This actor played power company worker Roy Neary, who makes an contact with aliens in Close Encounters of the Third Kind. He also starred in Spielberg’s afterlife movie Always and appeared as shark expert Matt Hooper in Jaws.
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial
PreCrime
Richard Dreyfuss &lt;HB&gt;
One song by this band describes a “milky delight that invited us all” and opens, “For I am an engine and I’m rolling on through endless revisions to state what I mean.” For 10 points each:
Name this band behind the song “Engine,” the B-side to its “Holland, 1945.” The lyric “God is a place you will wait for the rest of your life” appears on “Two-Headed Boy, Pt. 2,” from their album In the Aeroplane Over the Sea.
Neutral Milk Hotel wrote a song titled for this woman, whose “prettiness is seeping through out from the dress I took from you.” This former bandmate of Dean Wareham currently is half of a musical duo with Damon Krukowski.
Wareham, Yang, and Krukowski were members of Galaxie 500, a band named for a car model produced by this manufacturer. This company currently makes the Focus and Taurus.
Neutral Milk Hotel
Naomi Yang [accept either name]
Ford Motor Company
The title of this graphic novel refers to a story about two lunatics who need to jump across to a rooftop to escape the asylum, with one lunatic offering to shine a flashlight so that the other can walk over the beam. For 10 points each:
Name this graphic novel written by Alan Moore that explores the Joker’s origins. Its plot includes the shooting and paralysis of Barbara Gordon, and ends with Batman and the Joker laughing together outside a funhouse.
In a storyline created by Scott Snyder, Batman fights this organization, made up of Gotham’s aristocratic elite. This “Court” employs assassins called Talons, including Lincoln March, who claims to be Bruce Wayne’s brother.
In Frank Miller’s The Dark Knight Returns, this role is filled by a girl named Carrie Kelley. Other people who assumed the identity of this Batman sidekick include Dick Grayson and Jason Todd.
The Killing Joke
Court of Owls
Robin
The erratic scribblings of Doug Ratmann can be found in this facility, which created an entity that promises to give the player character cake in a room that actually contains an incinerator. For 10 points each:
Identify this facility responsible for creating personality cores like Wheatley, who straps a former nemesis to a potato battery out of spite.
Aperture Labs is the setting of this series of games in which Chell solves puzzles and navigates around GLaDOS’ traps using her ability to spawn the title objects with her gun.
In this other puzzle game, the player is spawned in a post-apocalyptic constructed reality run by an AI named ELOHIM. The player must collect sigils and has philosophical discussions with the Milton Library Assistant at computer terminals.
Aperture Science Enrichment Center [or Aperture Laboratories]
Portal
The Talos Principle
In Sufjan Stevens’ “Flint (For the Unemployed and Underpaid),” a trumpet plays two of these musical phrases in the key of F as a musical interlude between the second and third verses. For 10 points each:
Name these eight-part sets of notes, which in the key of C consist of, in order, C-D-E-F-G-A-B-C. Those notes are all introduced one by one in the song “Do-Re-Mi” from The Sound of Music.
This Vampire Weekend song opens with a G major scale played on the bass. The speaker of this song describes a “cruel professor studying romances” and asks, “How am I supposed to pretend I never want to see you again?”
The guitar modulates from a C major scale to an F major scale in the buildup to the chorus of this David Bowie song, which was famously covered by Nirvana. It opens, “We passed upon the stair, we spoke of was and when.”
major scales [prompt on “scales”]
“Campus”
“The Man Who Sold the World”
Answer the following about soccer tactics, for 10 points each:
In the early 1970s, coaches from this country developed the “Total Football” philosophy, which required every outfield player to be able to play every position. This country’s national team finished 3rd at the 2014 World Cup.
The “sweeper” variant of this position is best exemplified by Bayern Munich’s Manuel Neuer. The player who fills this position wears a different colored shirt than his or her teammates and is allowed to use hands.
Current Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is best known for utilizing this tactic. With a name derived from German, this tactic involves running at the opposition until they make a mistake and lose the ball.
the Netherlands [or Holland]
goalkeeper [or goalie]
gegenpressing
An admission made by this person prompts a James Franco-played character to yell “Hector’s rectum is real!” For 10 points each:
Name this celebrity who comes out of the closet on Dave Skylark Tonight in the first scene of The Interview. He plays Jimmy “B-Rabbit” Smith in a movie that climaxes with him defeating Papa Doc in a rap battle.
8 Mile ends with Eminem performing this Oscar-winning song on the soundtrack. It describes a character “sweaty, knees weak, arms are heavy” and urges “you only got one shot, do not miss your chance to blow/ this opportunity comes once in a lifetime.”
Appearing as himself in Funny People, Eminem does not recognize this real-life comedian at a restaurant while he is dining with Adam Sandler’s character. After this comedian continues to creepily stare at him, Eminem cusses him out.
Eminem [or Marshall Bruce Mathers III]
“Lose Yourself”
Ray Romano [or Raymond Romano]
One of these artists depicted herself suggestively eating a banana in The Artist Eating a Banana, while another presented a disheveled bed surrounded by detritus in My Bed. For 10 points each:
Name this group of artists that includes Sarah Lucas, Chris Ofili, and Tracey Emin, who gained prominence in exhibitions such as Freeze and Brilliant! and earned the ire of the Stuckists.
Young British Artist Damien Hirst floated one of these creatures in formaldehyde in his work The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living. A John Singleton Copley painting shows one of these creatures attacking Brook Watson as it is about to be harpooned.
This Tracy Emin work chronicles a time period from 1963-1995 and is sometimes referred to as The Tent.  Billy Childish is one of the names written on the inside of this work.
Young British Artists
shark
Everyone I Have Ever Slept With 1963-1995
In one episode of this show, Anthony sends Dan to the cornfield after turning him into a jack-in-the- box, prompting his father to say, "Tomorrow's gonna be...a real good day!" For 10 points each:
Name this classic sci-fi show. The opening of each episode of this show featured a narration beginning "you are entering another dimension."
In the episode "Time Enough at Last," Burgess Meredith plays a man who finally has enough time to read his favorite books after a nuclear war. The episode ends with his character doing this, then lamenting "it's not fair!"
In this episode, a satire of McCarthyism, neighbors turn paranoid against each other after seeing an alleged alien spaceship. It turns out there was an alien invasion, but the aliens are just flickering lights on and off.
The Twilight Zone
breaking his glasses [or equivalents]
"The Monsters are Due on Maple Street"
This comic book series went fourteen issues trading in twist ending scifi plots, such as an alien invader who has amnesia and thinks he is a human. For 10 points each:
Name this comic book, which dropped the word "adult" from its title for its fifteenth and final issue, that shows a green‐jacketed hoodlum being held above New York by a character introduced in this comic, Spider‐Man.
Amazing Fantasy was briefly revived in the 1990s for a series of stories set in Spider‐Man's early days by this comic book writer. This man was simultaneously the writer of Avengers and Iron Man at the turn of the millennium, and he created the Thunderbolts and Astro City.
While the cover of Amazing Fantasy #15 was drawn by Jack Kirby, the interior art and the visual creation of Spider‐Man were the work of this eccentric penciller, who went on to create the Ayn Rand‐ inspired comic Mr. A and the more traditional superhero The Question for Charlton Comocs.
Amazing Fantasy
Kurt Busiek
Steve Ditko
Darrell Griffith, Billy Thompson, and and Pervis Ellison were some of the heroes of teams from this school, which defeated UCLA and Duke six years apart in national finals. For 10 points each:
Name this school that won the 1980 and 1986 NCAA basketball championships as representatives of the erstwhile Metro Conference.
Both championship teams from Louisville were coached by this John Wooden disciple. He and Rick Pitino are the only coaches Louisville has had since 1971.
Louisville reached the Final Four again in 2005 and 2012; in 2012, they lost to in‐state rival Kentucky in one semifinal, while Kansas won the other. The last team in the Final Four was this squad, led by Deshaun Thomas and Jared Sullinger.
Louisville University
Denny Crum
Ohio State [or OSU or Buckeyes]
Ricky Gervais occasionally appears in this man's current TV show as the protagonist's inappropriate doctor, and that protagonist's futile love interest is played by Pamela Adlon. For 10 points each:
Name this actor and comedian, creator and star of a namesake show on FX, whose stand-up comedy specials include Chewed Up and Shameless.
C.K. wrote and directed this 2001 blaxploitation spoof starring Lance Crouther, which developed out of a sketch he wrote for The Chris Rock Show.
Louis C.K. voiced, and provided the visual model for, the divorced father of this character on Home Movies. This protagonist of the series is the director and cameraman of the films and is named for the Home Movies co-creator who went on to create Metalocalypse.
Louis C.K. [or Louis Szekely]
Pootie Tang
Brendon [or Brendon Small]
The lyrics of this song state that "I'm in love with" the title of this song "even though it hurts" because "I don't' care if I lose my mind." For 10 points each:
Name this 2009 song by the Norwegian Alexander Rybak, which won an event that was held the next year in Oslo.
That contest, where Rybak put up the highest score in its history, was this one, where multiple countries' broadcasting consortiums select one song to enter. Ireland is the most successful country in this competition.
This band, which released the song "Fernando," won Eurovision in 1974. Another song of theirs urges you to "feel the beat from the tamborine."
"Fairytale" [do not accept "Fairytales"]
Eurovision Song Contest [or Concours Eurovision de la Chanson]
ABBA [or Bjorn, Benny, Agnetha, and Frida]
She drives a taxi owned by her grandmother, served as a surrogate mother for her brother Frank's triplets, has a twin sister named Ursula, and plays original songs like "Smelly Cat" at the Central Perk coffeehouse. For 10 points each:
Name this eccentric 1990s TV character who works as an unlicensed massage therapist and eventually marries Mike Hannigan.
Phoebe is one of the six buddies on this sitcom that ran from 1994 to 2004. Its cast also included David Schwimmer and Jennifer Aniston, whose character Rachel had an extremely popular namesake hairstyle.
Lisa Kudrow currently appears on and writes for this mostly improvised sitcom. She plays Fiona Wallace, a self-appointed psychiatrist who conducts 3-minute sessions with her patients via Skype.
Phoebe Buffay
Friends
Web Therapy
References in this song to "stepping out on the balcony" and "cars rolling by out on 441" gave rise to an urban legend that this song was about a University of Florida student who jumped off the Beatty Towers. For 10 points each:
Name this 1977 song which pleads, "oh yeah, alright, take it easy baby, make it last all night" about a title character who was "raised on promises."
"American Girl" was found on this man's self‐titled debut album. This singer of "Mary Jane's Last Dance" and "Don't Come Around Here No More" has a backup band called The Heartbreakers and voiced Luanne's fiancee Lucky on King of the Hill
In an unusual 1996 project, Tom Petty covered the Beck song "Asshole" and wrote thirteen original songs, including "Walls" and "Change the Locks," to create the entire soundtrack to this 1996 film about marriage and infidelity starring Jennifer Aniston and directed by Edward Burns.
"American Girl"
Tom Petty
She's the One
In 2012 this team traded Andrew Bogut to Golden State to add Monta Ellis to a lineup that already included Brandon Jennings and Ersan Ilyasova. For 10 points each:
Name this franchise which won its only NBA title behind Lew Alcindor in 1971.
Milwaukee used its first-round pick in 2012 to draft this North Carolina forward, who has competed for playing time with Larry Sanders. He shares his name with a skunk-haired former Talk Soup host.
Milwaukee's head assistant coach is this man, who played point guard on Marquette's 1977 championship team. He served as interim coach of the Chicago Bulls after Scott Skiles was fired in 2007.
Milwaukee Bucks [or Milwaukee Bucks]
John Henson
Jim Boylan
Name these people who appear in the Rush Hour series of movies, for 10 points each.
In the first movie, Lee and Carter attempt to track down the crime lord Juntao, played by this actor. He portrayed Friedrich Fromm in Valkyrie and played Benjamin Franklin in the HBO miniseries John Adams.
This actor appears uncredited as Kenny in the second movie. He appeared alongside Adam Sandler in Reign Over Me and played porn star Buck Swope in Boogie Nights.
Upon arriving in Paris in the third movie, Lee and Carter get cavity searches by a commissaire played by this Polish-French director. He directed Rosemary's Baby and The Pianist and became a noted child rapist after wife Sharon Tate was murdered by the Manson Family.
Tom Wilkinson
Don Cheadle
Roman Polanski
It was "the hippest trip in America" and an important source of mainstream exposure for black musicians for over thirty years. For 10 points each:
Name this television program that began airing in Chicago in 1970 and become the longest-running nationally-syndicated television program in U.S. history before going off the air in 2006.
Soul Train was created, produced, and for twenty-two years hosted by this man, a former journalist and disc jockey known for his baritone voice. He committed suicide in February 2011.
A major feature of the show was the Soul Train Dancers. One of those dancers was this Brooklynite actress and choreographer, whose dances to "Fight the Power" in the opening credits of Do The Right Thing and attempts to memorize an almanac in order to win on Jeopardy! in White Men Can't Jump.
Soul Train
Don Cornelius
Rosie Perez
In addition to determining which NFC teams would be in the playoffs, Week 17 of the NFL season saw players attempting, but ultimately failing, to break some records. For 10 points each.
This Minnesota Vikings running back fell just short of the single-season record for rushing yards. This Oklahoma graduate was the NFL Rookie of the Year in 2007 and recently recovered from a torn ACL.
Peterson attempted to break the record of Eric Dickerson, who played most of his career for two teams in this city, which now has zero NFL teams.
Michael Strahan's sack record was also in danger during week 17. Both the Texans' J.J. Watt and this 49ers linebacker came close.
Adrian Peterson
Los Angeles [or LA]
Aldon Smith
This character drives his friend's Prius from Los Angeles to New York. For 10 points each:
Name this hurricane victim, portrayed by J.B. Smoove, who remains behind at Larry David's house after the rest of the Black family returns home.
Leon is a character on this HBO comedy , in which Larry David plays Larry David. Its seventh season revolved around a plot to win back Larry's wife Cheryl by staging a reunion episode of Seinfeld.
In the most recent season finale of Curb Your Enthusiasm, Larry is banned from New York City after Michael Bloomberg mistakenly believes that Larry is mocking Michael J. Fox's Parkinson's disease by pretending to do this action. The songs "Sunrise, Sunset" and "If I Were A Rich Man" appear in a musical titled for doing this action in an unusual location.
Leon Black
Curb your Enthusiasm 
playing the violin [or fiddling, etc]
He reportedly scored a 74 on an IQ test he took while placed in a mental hospital for cocaine addition. For 10 points each:
Name this country music legend known as "The Possum" who said, "This time he's over her for good," in his hit "He Stopped Loving Her Today."
George Jones' first hit was this tune about a moonshine that is notably not called mountain dew. The g-men, t-men, and revenuers search for the titular substance's distillery in the hills of North Carolina.
George Jones had a tumultuous marriage to this "First Lady of Country Music" who is most famous for her hit "Stand By Your Man."
George Jones 
White Lightning 
Tammy Wynette 
In this movie, Melvin Douglas stars as Count Leon D'Algout, who shows the wonders of capitalism to three Communist functionaries to prevent them from selling confiscated jewels. For 10 points each:
Name this 1939 comedy set in Paris, in which Leon seduces the title character, who is sent to recover those functionaries by the Soviet Union.
Ninotchka was directed by this German, who was renowned for the characteristic "touch" of his comedies, which include Design for Living and To Be or Not to Be. He also directed the antiwar film Broken Lullaby.
This Swedish actress starred as the title role in Ninotchka, whose posters proclaimed "[this actress] laughs." She starred in Anna Christie and Grand Hotel, which includes her oft-quoted line "I want to be alone."
Ninotchka 
Ernst Lubitsch
Greta Garbo [or Greta Lovisa Gustafsson]
This album's tracks include "Strode Rode" and a version of "Mack the Knife" called "Moritat." For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 album which begins with the calypso-inspired track "St. Thomas." It was recorded with Max Roach on drums, Tommy Flanagan on piano, and Doug Watkins on bass.
Saxophone Colossus was recorded by this jazz saxophonist, who composed the standards "Airegin," "Doxy," and "Oleo." From 1959 to 1961, he took a sabbatical from performing, and practiced on New York City's Williamsburg Bridge.
Rollins was an initial member of this trumpeter's first quintet. He helped create cool jazz with his album Birth of the Cool.
Saxophone Colossus 
Theodore Walter "Sonny" Rollins
Miles Davis 
This movie's soundtrack prominently features the song "Do Not Forsake Me Oh My Darlin'." For 10 points each:
Name this Western, in which Gary Cooper plays Will Kane, a marshal who is abandoned by townspeople and has to face the Miller gang alone.
High Noon was written by this screenwriter, who was blacklisted during the McCarthy era. He also produced and scripted The Guns of Navarone and co-wrote the script for The Bridge on the River Kwai along with Michael Wilson.
President Kennedy crossed a picket line to watch this screenwriter's movie Spartacus, which helped end Hollywood blacklisting. He also wrote the screenplay for the 1960 blockbuster Exodus and the anti-war novel Johnny Got His Gun.
High Noon
Carl Foreman
Dalton Trumbo
Songs described by this term were often thirty-two bars long, and were frequently composed by Johnny Mercer, Jerome Kern, and Harold Arlen. For 10 points each:
Name this collective term for popular standards from the 1920s to the 1950s, including many songs written for Broadway and classical Hollywood film.
At one hundred and eight measures long, this Cole Porter song is one of the longest pieces in the Great American Songbook. It was popularized by Artie Shaw, and inspired by a dance from Martinique.
The Great American Songbook includes many songs by this composer, including "Oh What a Beautiful Mornin', "Edelweiss," and "My Favorite Things." He collaborated on the musicals Oklahoma and The Sound of Music with Oscar Hammerstein.
The Great American Songbook
Begin the Beguine 
Richard Rodgers 
According to Encyclopedia Britannica, this man "skated with electrifying passion" in becoming the first to score 500 goals and in leading his team to eight Stanley Cups. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian ice hockey player nicknamed "the Rocket."
Maurice Richard played for this team, which was led by Patrick Roy to their last title in 1993. They play in Montreal.
This author wrote about a whiny little kid who throws a fit when he gets a Maple Leafs jersey instead of Rocket Richard's in the story "The Hockey Sweater," which is partially printed on the Canadian five dollar bill.
Maurice "Rocket" Richard 
Montreal Canadiens 
Roch Carrier 
[missing]
Name this song in which Freddie Mercury claims "I want to ride" the title object.
This other song by Queen includes the lyrics "I'm just a poor boy and nobody loves me" and begins with Mercury singing "Is this the real life? Is this just fantasy?"
The lyrics "Scaramouche, Scaramouche, will you do the Fandango?" in "Bohemian Rhapsody" may have been inspired by this author, who wrote about Andre-Louis Moreau's involvement with both sides of the French Revolution in his novel Scaramouche.
"Bicycle Race"
"Bohemian Rhapsody"
Rafael Sabatini
This man played the captain of the plane in Flightplan and Ian Howe, the antagonist of the first National Treasure movie. For 10 points each:
Name this English actor better known for a role which had him declare "One Does not Simply Walk Into Mordor."
Sean Bean played Eddard Stark on this HBO fantasy series based on a series of novels by George R. R. Martin.
Sean Bean played this character in a 1993 BBC miniseries. He works as a blacksmith in the army and marries Bertha Couts before falling in love with Connie at Wragby.
Sean Bean
Game of Thrones 
Oliver Mellors [accept eithers]
Pro-Bowl offensive linemen for this team include Ryan Kalil and Jordan Gross. For 10 points each:
Name this NFL team which plays in Bank of America Stadium and is coached by Ron Rivera.
After Matt Moore was injured, the Panthers enjoyed the inconsistent play of this quarterback, who was drafted out of Notre Dame.
A mysterious white panther roaming the countryside turns out to be Sufiya Zinobia Hyder, the title character of this 1983 novel in which she marries Omar Khayyam Shakil.
Carolina Panthers [accept either]
James Richard "Jimmy" Clausen
Shame
This man sang about "Einstein disguised as Robin Hood" and "Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot fighting in the tower" in his song "Desolation Row." For 10 points each:
Name this singer-songwriter of "Highway 61 Revisited" and "Like a Rolling Stone."
The narrator of this Dylan song is handed a book of poems "written by an Italian poet from the thirteenth century," presumably a reference to Dante. This song opens "Early one morning the sun was shining, I was laying in bed."
Bob Dylan's song "Jokerman" notes that "fools rush in where angels fear to tread," a direct quotation from this poem, which also notes that some people "the Ancients only, or the Moderns prize."
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]
"Tangled Up in Blue"
Essay on Criticism
This character's creator, David Shore, claims he is partially based on Sherlock Holmes. For 10 points each:
Name this vicodin addict who leads a team of diagnosticians on a FOX medical drama.
This other House character has a delinquent brother named Marcus and carries on a brief fling with Thirteen. He is played by Omar Epps.
House uses a dust jacket from this novel to cover up his reading of a book of sermons by his father. Characters in this novel include Charlotte Stant and Adam Verver.
Gregory House [accept either]
Eric Foreman [accept either]
The Golden Bowl
Despite declining ratings over the past two years, NBC has unofficially announced that this TV series will be picked up for season four, which is expected to open with the volume called "Redemption." For 10 points each: 
Name this TV series whose third season has seen Nathan Petrelli and the "Hunter" go after the title group of characters, which include the Hayden Panettiere-portrayed Claire Bennet and the time-stopping Nakamura. 
James Kyson Lee, who plays Hiro's sidekick, Ando, hails from this university. Rosie O'Donnell, Emily Deschanel, and Jason Alexander also graduated from here, whose sports teams are called the "Terriers." 
This Boston University drop-out is all the rage in online poker. Known on Full Tilt Poker by his screen name "durrrr," he is in the middle of a million dollar challenge of four-tabling Pot Limit Omaha with Patrik Antonius. 
Heroes 
Boston University
Tom Dwan
The central figure of this story sees a mysterious hoodlum spraypainting the title phrase on a wall near the end, before getting on a bus and leaving town forever. For 10 points each:
Name this graphic novel, which follows the recent high school grads Enid Coleslaw and her best friend Becky as they amble about their hometown. The movie version features Steve Buschemi in a role, expanded greatly from the source, as record collector Seymour. 
This man wrote Ghost World as well as Art School Confidential, Like a Velvet Glove Cast in Iron, and, more recently, Ice Haven. 
Rumored to be making Master of Space and Time with Clowes, this Frenchman also directed Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, The Science of Sleep, and Dave Chappelle's Block Party, as well as numerous music videos. 
Ghost World. 
Daniel Clowes 
Michel Gondry 
In the most recently aired episode of this show, the protagonist shows off his black credit card and the song "Sky Pilot" is featured. For 10 points each:
Name this show about Kenny Powers, a washout Major League Baseball player who gets a second chance.
Married to Jeremy Piven's sister since 1996, this former Saturday Night Live head writer is the co-creator of Eastbound &amp; Down. He has directed such films as Stepbrothers and Anchorman.
The role of Ashley Schaffer in Eastbound &amp; Down is played by this frequent McKay collaborator, the star of Talladega Nights, who also portrayed Robert Goulet on SNL.
Eastbound &amp; Down
Adam McKay
Will Ferrell