In one film, this actress refers to her partner as “Jerry the Nipper,” in reference to a previous role in <em>The Awful Truth</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this actress who collaborated with Cary Grant in George Cukor (“KYOO-kor”) films like Sylvia Scarlett. David Huxley helps this actress’s character Susan Vance track down a lost leopard in Connecticut in the film Bringing Up Baby.
A love triangle between Grant, Hepburn, and James Stewart occurs in a Cukor film titled for this city’s “Story.” Denzel Washington’s character Joe Miller overcomes homophobia while representing the AIDS-infected Andrew Beckett in a 1993 film titled for this city.
This man won back-to-back Best Actor Oscars for his leading roles in Philadelphia and Forrest Gump.
Katharine Hepburn [or Katharine Houghton Hepburn; do not accept or prompt on “Audrey Hepburn”]
Philadelphia [accept The Philadelphia Story]
Tom Hanks [or Thomas Jeffrey Hanks] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
This fashion designer collaborated with the Nazis during their occupation of France, though she is better remembered for innovations such as introducing the little black dress. For 10 points each:
Name this fashion designer. This French designer’s eponymous fashion label became extremely popular in the years after World War I, and more recently was headed by Karl Lagerfeld until his death in early 2019.
Chanel No. 5, which comes in a simple glass bottle, is a famous example of this type of product. Ambergris was once a popular ingredient in these cosmetic products, whose scents are composed of various “notes.”
Chanel wasn’t the only designer of little black dresses: a black gown by this designer became famous when Audrey Hepburn wore it in Breakfast at Tiffany’s. This man created much of Hepburn’s on- and offscreen wardrobe.
Coco Chanel [or Gabrielle Bonheur Chanel]
perfumes [or fragrances, or eau de parfum; accept eau de toilette or eau de cologne]
Hubert de Givenchy (“zhee-von-SHEE”) &lt;Other Arts&gt;
A green horse represents Young Thug on the album cover for this song, which grew out of a banjo sample from the Nine Inch Nails song “Ghosts IV.” For 10 points each:
Name this song, the third remix of which features the “yodeling kid” Mason Ramsey. A lyric about marijuana was deleted from this song before its artist’s first collaboration with Billy Ray Cyrus.
The fourth remix of “Old Town Road” features RM, a member of this K-pop group. Fans of this group nominated its members for the Nobel Peace Prize after this group began the Love Myself movement against domestic violence.
An animated music video for the third remix of “Old Town Road” involves its artists riding into this location on September 20, 2019. In the video, music critic Anthony Fantano plays a guard of this location.
“Old Town Road”
BTS [or Bangtan Boys; or Bangtan Sonyeondan] (The remix is also referred to as “Seoul Town Road.”)
Area 51 [or Homey Airport; or Groom Lake] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
In 1971, this team lost 4–0 to France in the first women’s international soccer match recognized by FIFA. For 10 points each:
Name this team, whose top scorer Vivianne Miedema helped defeat a Sofia Jakobssen-led Sweden in the semifinals of the 2019 Women’s World Cup.
This team, the eventual winner of the 2019 Women’s World Cup, opened the tournament with a 13–0 victory against Thailand.
This forward and co-captain of the USWNT with Megan Rapinoe (“ruh-PEE-no”) matched Michelle Akers’ single-game goal record against Thailand. This player co-captained Team USA with Megan Rapinoe.
The Netherlands women’s national football team [or Nederlands vrouwenvoetbalelftal]
United States women’s national soccer team [or USWNT; accept synonyms like America, US, USA in place of “United States”]
Alex Morgan [or Alexandra Patricia Morgan Carrasco] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
In a film from this country set during its Japanese occupation, Sook-hee ends up falling in love with the heiress whom she was supposed to trick. For 10 points each:
Name this home country of Park Chan-wook, who directed The Handmaiden as well as Oldboy and Lady Vengeance.
This man became the first Korean director to win the Palme d’Or at Cannes (“can”) with his 2019 film Parasite. His other films include Okja, Snowpiercer, and The Host.
Snowpiercer is set in one of these locations, which shelters the remaining population of a frozen Earth. In a 2016 South Korean film, a man and his daughter survive a zombie outbreak while in one of these locations.
South Korea [or Republic of Korea; or ROK; accept Hanguk or Namhan; prompt on Korea; do not accept or prompt on “Democratic People’s Republic of Korea” or “DPRK” or “North Korea”]
Bong Joon-ho
trains [accept Train to Busan] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
In a 1916 game, Cumberland College stopped one of this team’s touchdowns with a human pyramid, but still lost to this school 222 to 0. For 10 points each:
Name this ACC team who acquired coach Geoff Collins in 2018. This team still participates in the “Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate” with its in-state rival despite leaving the SEC in 1964.
Georgia Tech’s Cumberland win occurred under this coach. Baker Mayfield and Kyler Murrey are two recent winners of a trophy named for this man, which is given to the most outstanding college football player each year.
While Georgia Tech has never had a Heisman winner, the University of Georgia has had two, including this legendary Minnesota Vikings running back who competed for the U.S. men’s bobsled team in 1992.
Georgia Tech [or Georgia Institute of Technology; prompt on GT or Tech]
John Heisman [accept Heisman Memorial Trophy]
Herschel Walker &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
In this film, Queen Clarisse almost renounces Mia’s title after she kisses her crush Josh in front of the paparazzi. For 10 points each:
Name this 2001 film in which the American Mia Thermopolis becomes the heir to Genovia. This film was the first leading role for a young Anne Hathaway.
In The Devil Wears Prada, Hathaway’s character Andy is charged by this actress’s character Miranda Priestly to find an unpublished Harry Potter book. This actress asked for “money, money, money” as Donna in Mamma Mia!.
In Hathaway’s role as this character, she first appears as a maid stealing Martha’s pearl necklace. While playing this character in another film, Michelle Pfeiffer scratches out a neon sign to read “Hell Here” after being thrown out of a window by Max Schreck.
The Princess Diaries
Meryl Streep [or Mary Louise Streep]
Catwoman [or Selina Kyle] &lt;CE/Geo/Other/Pop Culture&gt;
A popular approach in film editing to make a scene look natural involves doing this “on action.” For 10 points each:
Give this term that refers to a transition between shots. A director traditionally says “Action!” to begin a take, and says this word to end it.
A cut that violates the “30-degree rule” is referred to as this type of jarring cut, which is often employed to show the passing of time. The use of these cuts was popularized by the French New Wave.
Along with cuts and dissolves, this is the third type of film transition. George Lucas’s use of this type of transition throughout Star Wars was largely inspired by Akira Kurosawa’s film The Hidden Fortress.
cuts
jump cuts
wipes &lt;RK, Other Arts: Film&gt;
Name these contemporary film directors who have depicted sexual obsession, for 10 points each.
Michael Fassbender played the sex addict Brandon, whose life is thrown out of balance by his sister’s return, in this British director’s film Shame. This man directed 12 Years a Slave.
In a lengthy erotic film by this director, Seligman’s accounts of fly-fishing parallel the sexual experiences of Joe, who is played by Charlotte Gainsbourg. The 2018 premiere of a film by this director about a serial killer led to several mass walkouts at Cannes (“can”).
Paul Schrader, who fictionalized the life of sex addict Bob Crane in his 2002 film Auto Focus, is better known for writing screenplays for films by this director, such as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull.
Steve McQueen
Lars von Trier (The films are Nymphomaniac and The House that Jack Built.)
Martin Scorsese (“scor-SAY-zee”) [or Martin Charles Scorsese] &lt;RK, Other Arts: Film&gt;
Mae West’s outfits often included black examples of these articles of clothing, which helped enhance her status as a sex symbol in the 1930s. For 10 points each:
Give these articles of clothing. One made of meat was worn by Lady Gaga at the 2010 MTV Music Awards.
This fashion house designed the green dress printed with leaf and bamboo patterns that Jennifer Lopez wore to the 2000 Grammys. This fashion house’s namesake was murdered in 1997 by the spree killer Andrew Cunahan.
This Belgian-born designer is best known for her iconic, body-hugging wrap dresses, which have a V-shaped neckline and are often considered major expressions of sexual liberation.
dresses
Versace [or Gianni Versace S.r.l.]
Diane von Fürstenberg [or Diane of Fürstenberg; or Diane Simone Michelle Halfin; or DVF] &lt;WA, Other Arts: Misc&gt;
Name these places important to the history of rap music, for 10 points each.
Kendrick Lamar is one of many storied rappers to come out of this neighborhood of Los Angeles, which titles a groundbreaking album by N.W.A.
Playboi Carti’s song “Magnolia” references a public housing development located in this city, which once housed Birdman and Jay Electronica. Baby Boy da Prince and Lil Wayne are also from this southern city.
This housing complex in Long Island City, the largest in the Western Hemisphere, was home to such pioneering MCs as Marley Marl, MC Shan, and Roxanne Shante in the 1980s. In “Memory Lane (Sittin in da park),” Nas (“nozz”) raps “Now let me take a trip down memory lane / coming out of” this place.
Compton [accept Straight Outta Compton]
New Orleans [or Nawlins or The Big Easy]
Queensbridge Houses &lt;RN, Geography&gt;
In the 1700s, these articles of clothing were worn by European noblemen to flaunt their legs. For 10 points each:
Name these shoes, examples of which include stilettos and wedges.
This French shoe designer sued Yves Saint-Laurent over use of his signature stiletto style featuring a notable lacquered red sole.
This Malaysian shoe designer created his namesake company with Sandra Choi and Tamara Mellon. After a spread in Vogue, he became Princess Diana’s favorite shoe designer.
high heels [prompt on heels]
Christian Louboutin (loo-boo-tan)
Jimmy Choo [accept Datuk Jimmy Choo Yean Keat] &lt; Iain Carpenter | Misc - Other Academic &gt;
A $10,000-budget movie by this director ends with Spencer embracing the Lady in the Radiator while the two are surrounded by white light. For 10 points each:
Name this director of Eraserhead who also directed the TV show Twin Peaks.
Description acceptable. In Eraserhead, Mary X (eks) ropes Spencer into taking care of this character whose internal organs, spill out prompting Spencer to cut them with a pair of scissors towards the film’s end. This character then turns into the planet seen at the film’s beginning.
In addition to directing Eraserhead, David Lynch directed a cult hit with a movie titled [this color] Velvet. This color is the skin of the Na’vi in David Cameron’s 2009 film Avatar.
David Lynch
freaky baby [accept lizard baby; skinless baby; alien baby; accept the creature-thing or literally any description of the photo below of a creature infant that isn’t very baby-like at all; prompt on baby; infant and similar with “What can you tell me about the baby?”]
blue  &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Other Fine Arts &gt;
Alvin Ailey was a pioneering choreographer and dancer who paved the way for African-American participation in concert dance. For 10 points each:
Ailey’s best-known work is arguably this one, a suite of dances that explores the history, culture, and faith of African-Americans.
The music of Revelations includes “Wade in the Water” and “Sinner Man,” which are this kind of song. These songs often contain Biblical references and describe the effects of slavery.
One of the most famous spirituals is partially named after this kind of vehicle that “swing[s] low” and is “coming for to carry me home.”
Revelations [do NOT accept or prompt on “Revelation”]
spirituals [prompt on hymns, folk songs, blues songs, or gospel songs]
chariot &lt; Bryan Lu | Other Fine Arts &gt;
This dish is made using a base of stewed tomatoes. For 10 points each:
Name this stewed vegetable dish often flavored with herbes de Provence (airb duh proh-vawns) which consists of sliced zucchini, squash, eggplant, bell pepper, and onion. This dish originated in Nice (nees), France.
This form of bread was adapted into bánh mì (bahn mee) in Vietnamese cuisine. This long, thin form of bread is a staple of French cuisine.
Another staple of French cuisine is this flavor base made by cooking celery, carrots, and onions in butter on low heat. It is often compared to the “holy trinity” of Cajun cuisine or the Italian soffritto flavor base.
ratatouille (rat-uh-too-ee)
baguette
mirepoix (“meer”-pwah) &lt; Iain Carpenter | Other Academic &gt;
This activity is done by identifying items that “Spark joy” in the KonMari method. For 10 points each:
Name this activity that titles a 2014 book about its “Life Changing Magic.”
The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up is by this Japanese professional organizer who received a Netflix special about helping families get tidy.
This Canadian psychology professor with a large Youtube following has repeatedly urged people to “clean their rooms.” He’s campaigned against Canada’s C-16 bill, talked lobsters with Cathy Newman, and wrote the 2018 self-help book 12 Rules for Life.
cleaning [or tidying up; accept decluttering; accept organizing; accept other clear equivalents]
Marie Kondo
Jordan B(ernt) Peterson &lt; Michael Etzkorn | Misc - Other Academic &gt;
As graphic designer for Blue Note Records, Reid Miles created many iconic jazz album covers, like the designs for Sonny Clark’s <em>Cool Struttin’</em> and Eric Dolphy’s <em>Out to Lunch!</em>. For 10 points each:
The cover for Art Blakey &amp; The Jazz Messengers’ The Big Beat is a yellow-tinted photo, with the perspective looking up at Blakey playing this instrument.
This man’s work transformed industry of graphic design. He created film title sequences for Hitchcock, Kubrick, and Scorsese as well as logos for AT&amp;T, United Airlines, and Kleenex.
This company’s advertisements include a campaign that showed Einstein and Gandhi with the slogan “Think different.” One of their Super Bowl ads introduced the Macintosh computer in the frame of Orwell’s 1984.
drumset
Saul Bass
Apple &lt; Bryan Lu | Other Fine Arts &gt;
Julie Chen resigned from <em>The Talk</em> as a show of support for this man, her husband. For 10 points each:
Name this former CEO of CBS who resigned in the wake of a July New Yorker article publicizing the sexual harassment allegations against him.
An October 2017 New Yorker exposé revealed the sexual assault allegations against this independent film producer, whose fall from grace initiated the #MeToo movement.
The Moonves and Weinstein exposés were written by this journalist, who also wrote about the abuse allegations against New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. He has a strained relationship with his father Woody Allen.
Les Moonves
Harvey Weinstein
Ronan Farrow [or Satchel Ronan Farrow]
One of this man’s films, loosely adapted from Dostoevsky’s <em>The Possessed</em>, centers on a group of Maoist university students who attempt to assassinate the Soviet Minister of Culture. For 10 points each:
Name this founder of the Dziga Vertov Group. This frequent collaborator of Anna Karina featured an intertitle about “The Children of Marx and Coca-Cola” in a film whose title translates to Masculine Feminine.
Godard was a pioneer in a radical French film movement of the 60s that rejected the “Tradition of Quality” and was described by this two-word name. It was championed by André Bazin’s Cahiers du Cinéma magazine.
Michel, the protagonist of Godard’s Breathless, loves to mimic the style of this American actor. He starred in films like The Big Sleep, The Maltese Falcon, and Casablanca.
Jean-Luc Godard
French New Wave [or La Nouvelle Vague]
Humphrey Bogart
After the main characters of this show accidentally burn down Susan Ross’ cabin, they discover that Susan’s father had a decades-long affair with John Cheever. For 10 points each:
Name this sitcom that won a GLAAD Award for an episode in which characters shout “not that there’s anything wrong with that!” to deny being gay. This show spawned the catchphrases “no soup for you” and “Serenity Now!”
Michael Scott vows to end “100,000 years of being weirded out by gays” in “Gay Witch Hunt,” an episode of this sitcom that ends with Michael kissing Oscar Martinez in Dunder Mifflin Scranton’s conference room.
In the “Puppy Episode” of her namesake sitcom, Ellen DeGeneres realizes that she is gay while speaking to a therapist played by this woman. In 30 Rock, Liz Lemon mistakes a teenage girl for this woman after mixing white wine with anti-anxiety pills.
Seinfeld
The Office
Oprah Winfrey [accept either]
This city is the setting of <em>Infernal Affairs</em>, a 2002 film that inspired the plot of Martin Scorsese's <em>The Departed</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this city. Two neighbors discover that their spouses are having an affair with one another in In the Mood for Love, a 2000 film set in this city that introduced its Second Wave of filmmakers to global audiences.
Hong Kong cinema initially gained international fame through films in this genre, exemplified by the work of Wong Fei-hung and the Shaw Brothers. Later, it was popularized by actors like Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan.
The director of In the Mood for Love, Wong Kar-wai, often collaborates with Christopher Doyle, who has this profession. This member of a film crew controls the film’s lighting, lensing, and overall visual aesthetic.
Hong Kong
martial arts films [or kung fu films or karate films; prompt on action films]
cinematographer [or director of photography; or DP; or DOP]
Bennet Omalu discovered chronic traumatic encephalopathy [“en-sepp-ah-loff-ah-thee”], or CTE, while examining the corpse of a former player of this sport named Mike Webster. For 10 points each:
Name this sport played by Aaron Hernandez and Junior Seau, both of whom may have committed suicide due to the symptoms of CTE.
In 2009, this current commissioner of the NFL issued a rule change forcing teams to bench players who showed signs of head injuries.
This current Washington State head coach was fired by Texas Tech after he locked a concussed player in an equipment closet. He popularized the Air Raid offense during his time at Texas Tech.
American football
Roger Goodell
Mike Leach
Famed African-American choreographer Katherine Dunham performed one of these dances in <em>Stormy Weather</em>, a biopic of Bill “Bojangles” Robinson. For 10 points each:
Name this type of dance performed by Bojangles and Shirley Temple on a staircase in the film The Littlest Colonel. Most of Fred Astaire’s solo dances were performed in this style of dancing.
After she was denied service at a hotel in this South American country, Dunham helped pass a bill forbidding racial discrimination in its cities. This country is the origin of the samba and jongo dance styles.
This student of Dunham paid tribute to her in a performance titled The Magic of Katherine Dunham. He’s better known for founding a New York-based dance company and channeling spirituals and blues in his ballet Revelations.
tap dance [or tap dancing]
Brazil
Alvin Ailey
This singer recorded a hit cover of Dolly Parton’s “I Will Always Love You” for <em>The Bodyguard</em>, which she starred in alongside Kevin Costner. For 10 points each:
Name this singer of “I Want to Dance with Somebody” who died by drowning in her own bathtub in 2012.
Houston’s family criticized Pusha T for using a photograph of Houston’s bathroom after her death as the cover art for this 2018 album. Its tracks include “If You Know You Know” and an epic takedown of Meek Mill, “What Would Meek Do?”
This rapper, who produced Pusha T’s Daytona, personally shelled out $85,000 to acquire the rights to the photograph of Houston’s bathroom. This husband of Kim Kardashian recently visited President Trump at the White House.
Whitney Houston
Daytona
Kanye West [accept either underlined portion; also accept Yeezy or Ye]
In “Marilyn Monroe,” Danielle Cohn asks the listener to watch her dab as she rides on one of these vehicles. For 10 points each:
Name these vehicles that were recalled en masse in 2016 due to a glitch that caused their battery packs to overheat and catch on fire.
Marty McFly rides a hoverboard in the second installment of this film series, whose first film sees Marty and Doc Brown travel to the 1950s in a time-travelling Delorean.
In Back to the Future II, this bully travels back in time to give himself a sports almanac, which his past self uses to become a Donald Trump-esque gambling mogul.
hoverboards [or self-balancing scooters]
Back to the Future
Biff Tannen [accept either underlined portion]
<em>Moderator note: The first two parts of this bonus contain lots of clauses, so please read slowly. </em> You are playing a betting game involving drawing <em>and replacing</em> yellow and blue marbles from a bag. For 10 points each:
After drawing yellow 6 times, you are inclined to believe you’re now more likely to draw a blue marble, but since the probability remains constant, you are actually experiencing this fallacy.
Since the probability of winning is 50%, you could determine your bet using the martingale approach, often used in roulette, which involves doing this to your bet if you lose.
Along with asylum judges and loan officers, officials in this sport are often subject to the gambler’s fallacy. Michael Lewis’s Moneyball describes how Billy Beane used sabermetrics to succeed in this sport.
gambler’s fallacy or Monte Carlo fallacy
doubling your bet [accept equivalents]
baseball
In a Bowling for Soup song, the singer’s love interest has moved <em>away</em> from this state to live “in Cleveland / with some guy named Leland / that she met at the bank.” For 10 points each:
Name this state which, according to a 1987 song, is where all of George Strait’s “exes live.” Willie Nelson hosts an annual 4th of July picnic in this state’s city of Austin.
According to the aforementioned song, all of George Strait’s exes live in Texas, but he “hangs his hat” in this other state. Elvis Presley's mansion, Graceland, is located in this state.
In the song, George Strait claims to have an ex-girlfriend of this name who lives in Galveston. A woman with this name is told “I know this world is killing you” and “my aim is true” in an Elvis Costello song.
Texas [or “Ohio (Come Back to Texas)” or “All My Ex’s Live in Texas”]
Tennessee
Alisson
Answer the following about dishes that originated from upstate New York, none of which are “steamed hams,” for 10 points each.
This city near Niagara Falls is the birthplace of the beef on weck sandwich, as well as a namesake preparation of chicken wings covered with hot sauce.
According to some stories, a frustrated chef in Saratoga Springs accidentally created this food while serving Cornelius Vanderbilt. Regional brands of this food include Zapp’s in Louisiana and Herr’s in Pennsylvania.
Many restaurants in Rochester serve copies of this signature dish from Nick Tahou Hots, which consists of baked beans, macaroni salad, or French fries topped with an assortment of meats, onions, ketchup and sometimes hot sauce.
Buffalo
potato chips [or crisps]
Garbage Plate &lt;KS, Other Academic&gt;
Answer the following about annual lists of the top ten films, for 10 points each.
This film critic who goes by his first initial and last name made an annual top ten film list for the Village Voice; the TV broadcast of Game 6 of the 1986 World Series landed at number 5 on his 1986 list.
This country’s oldest film magazine, Kinema Junpō (“KEE-neh-mah joom-POH”), puts out an annual top ten list. In 2009, it put out a list of this county’s top ten films of all time, on which Seven Samurai ranked second.
Cahiers du Cinéma (“kah-YAY due see-nay-MAH”) released its first top ten list in 1951; the list was topped by The River, a film by this French director of The Grand Illusion and A Day in the Country.
J. Hoberman [or James Lewis Hoberman]
Japan [or Nippon]
Jean Renoir &lt;WN, Other Arts - Film&gt;
Answer some questions about successful startups, for 10 points each.
Under the leadership of Dara Khosrowshahi, this company announced the development of a namesake “air” service by 2020 that will provide short flights to users. Its founder Travis Kalanick resigned in 2017 amid allegations of sexual harassment.
This company, co-founded by Jim McKelvey and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, provides small businesses with devices that can connect to smartphones and tablets to read credit and debit cards.
This startup, which partnered with Marshawn Lynch in November 2017, provides solar-powered bikes and scooters for rent. It was criticized for making its vehicles play a voice clip telling unauthorized users “Unlock me to ride me, or I’ll call the police.”
Uber
Square, Inc.
Lime [or LimeBike] &lt;KH, Current Events&gt;
Answer the following about the use of the color pink in 1950s Hollywood musicals, for 10 points each.
Marilyn Monroe wears an iconic pink dress while singing that these objects “are a girl’s best friend” in a scene from Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.
Henri Baurel climbs up steps that turn pink one by one in the song “Stairway to Paradise” from this Vincente Minnelli film starring Gene Kelly as an expat painter.
A fashion magazine publisher tells her employees to “think pink” in an exuberantly pink scene from this 1957 film in which Audrey Hepburn’s character performs an impromptu bohemian-style dance in a nightclub.
diamonds
An American in Paris
Funny Face &lt;WN, Other Arts - Film&gt;
This film is named for a scene where Shmuel Frenkel “dances” wildly with a machine gun on a Beirut street. For 10 points each:
Name this animated documentary by Ari Folman, a former soldier for the IDF who suffers from PTSD. Folman eventually realizes that he helped the Lebanese Christian Phalange militia massacre a Palestinian refugee camp.
This other animated film depicts Marjane Satrapi’s life growing up in a theocracy and her rebellion against fundamentalist Islam. It lost an Academy Award to Ratatouille, a film about a rat’s rebellion against the idea that rodents should not cook.
Persepolis is primarily set in this home country of directors Asghar Farhadi, whose most recent film is The Salesman. Farhadi’s A Separation is set in this country’s capital of Tehran.
Waltz with Bashir [or Vals Im Bashir]
Persepolis
Iran [or Persia] &lt;JK Visual FA&gt;
This stadium is flanked by an iconic Citgo Sign, and has the initials of a married couple who once owned its team displayed in Morse code on its scoreboard. For 10 points each:
Name this stadium. The retired number 42 is displayed in blue within this stadium, although other numbers like 6, 9, and 45 are displayed in red.
This baseball team plays at Fenway Park. The Yawkeys once owned this baseball team for which Ted Williams, Pedro Martinez, and David Ortiz played.
The Red Sox played this team in the 2004 World Series. In 1934, this team was nicknamed the Gashouse Gang, and that roster included brothers Dizzy Dean and Paul Dean.
Fenway Park
Boston Red Sox [accept either underlined part]
St. Louis Cardinals [accept either underlined part] &lt;OL Trash&gt;
This woman organized “die-ins” on Staten Island before her death in late 2017. For 10 points each:
Name this activist who appeared in a 2016 Bernie Sanders ad called “It’s Not Over” with her daughter Alyssa. The hospitalization that preceded her death was to treat asthma, a condition her father shared.
Erica Garner was heavily involved with this organization after the death of her father Eric Garner. This organization advocates against police violence towards marginalized groups, especially African-Americans.
Black Lives Matter protested the treatment of this Chicago teenager by Jason Van Dyke, who shot him sixteen times. According to a 2016 report, the CPD probably tampered with the dash-cam recording of this seventeen year old’s death.
Erica Garner Snipes
Black Lives Matter [or BLM]
Laquan McDonald &lt;OL Current Events&gt;
A song named for this actress repeatedly asks whether it’s “warm enough outside.” For 10 points each:
Name this actress. She’s often featured in romantic comedies like 50 First Dates and Never Been Kissed, and played Gertie in E.T. when she was six.
This artist’s debut album Ctrl features the song Drew Barrymore. This artist claims “my man is your man” in The Weekend and describes the title sensation as “the only thing keepin’ me by your side right now” in Love Galore.
SZA collaborated with this Adam Levine-led band on the track What Lovers Do. This band’s most popular songs include “Moves Like Jagger” and “Payphone.”
Drew Barrymore
SZA [“sizza”] [or Solana Imani Rowe; or Sovereign Zig-Zag Allah; or Savior Zig-Zag Allah]
Maroon 5 &lt;OL Trash&gt;
Answer some questions about music from the 1970s sampled in the songs of Kanye West. For 10 points each:
Kanye sings “Have you lost your mind / Tell me when you think we’ve crossed the line” in “Hell of a Life,” sampling “Iron Man,” a song by this metal group fronted by Ozzy Osbourne.
Donald Fagen, lead singer of this band, sings “Did you realize that you were a champion in their eyes?” to open the Kanye song “Champion.” This band released songs like “Peg,” “Reelin’ in the Years,” and “Do It Again.”
Kanye West’s song “Drunk and Hot Girls” samples “Sing Swan Song” from the album Ege Bamyasi, recorded by this pioneering German krautrock band. They are most famous for the song “Vitamin C.”
Black Sabbath
Steely Dan
Can &lt;AS Trash&gt;
In a recent performance, this actor played a small human in <em>Downsizing</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Bostonian. This actor played the title character in Good Will Hunting, which he co-wrote with Ben Affleck, and plays Jason Bourne in four thrillers.
Matt Damon played Mark Watney in this film, an adaptation of a 2011 novel of the same name. In it, Damon’s character uses his own feces to fertilize soil and grow potatoes after being abandoned by the Ares III mission.
This author of The Martian recently released a novel about Jazz Bashara’s experiences as a moon colonist and criminal titled Artemis.
Matthew Paige Damon
The Martian
Andy Weir &lt;OL Trash&gt;
Answer the following about minimalist composer Steve Reich’s influence on pop music, for 10 points each.
This indie folk singer-songwriter imitated the pulsing style of Reich’s Music for 18 Musicians on “Out Of Egypt, Into The Great Laugh Of Mankind,” the closing track of an album that includes “Casimir Pulaski Day,” Illinoise.
Along with Nick Drake, Steve Reich is one of the two dedicatees of this 1986 song by The Dream Academy, whose title refers to Nick Laird-Clowes’s time in the city of Newcastle.
After hearing Music for 18 Musicians in Berlin in 1976, this singer featured its influence in the instrumental track “Weeping Wall.” This creator of Ziggy Stardust released Blackstar two days before his 2016 death.
Sufjan Stevens
“Life in a Northern Town”
David Bowie &lt;JB Trash&gt;
Identify some artists associated with the new wave genre of the late 1970s. For 10 points each:
This group, fronted by David Byrne, worked with Brian Eno to produce the Afrobeat-inspired album Remain in Light. They also released the hit songs “Psycho Killer” and “Burning Down the House.”
The eponymous debut album of this other American band has been certified as 6x Platinum. It includes the hits “My Best Friend’s Girl,” “Good Times Roll,” and “Just What I Needed.”
This man topped The Village Voice’s Pazz &amp; Jop critics’ poll in 1978 for his sophomore album This Year’s Model and again in 1982 for Imperial Bedroom. His backing band was known as The Attractions.
The Talking Heads
The Cars
Elvis Costello &lt;AS Trash&gt;
J. A. Hobson lambasted the imperialist rhetoric common to entertainment in these places. For 10 points each:
Name these theater venues, popular in Britain from the Victorian era until the ’60s, that served up vaudeville-like variety entertainment. They promoted World War I via songs like “It’s a Long Way to Tipperary.”
Music hall star G. H. MacDermott popularized a song that states “We don’t want to fight but by [this word] if we do / We’ve got the ships, we’ve got the men, we’ve got the money too,” making this word the root of a term for aggressive foreign policy.
Hobson’s Psychology of Jingoism attacks the music hall promotion of this war, fought against a namesake group of Dutch settlers of South Africa.
music halls
jingo [prompt on jingoism]
Second Boer War &lt;JB Euro/British History&gt;
Another character says that this character looks “pretty… good. You look pretty good” after she puts on a pink dress and blonde wig belonging to Nancy Wheeler. For 10 points each:
Name this character. In the second season of a TV show, this character takes a bus to Pittsburgh to find Kali after visiting her catatonic mother, Terry Ives.
Eleven is a main character on this Netflix show, created by the Duffer Brothers. In this show, Mike and his friends Lucas, Will, and Dustin encounter the Upside Down in Hawkins Lab.
Dustin is disappointed to find that MADMAX has broken his record on this thematically-appropriate arcade game during the first episode of Stranger Things 2. This game also titles the second season’s fifth episode.
Eleven [accept Jane Ives]
Stranger Things 2
Dig Dug &lt;OL Trash&gt;
A <em>Current Affairs</em> article about this company’s founder is titled “A Repellent Musk.” For 10 points each:
Name this electric car company founded by Elon Musk. In February, a SpaceX rocket sent one of this company’s cars into orbit, where it will blast “Space Oddity” at top volume.
“A Repellent Musk” declares that “Sooner or later,” Elon Musk and this man will go to war. This “real-life comic-book supervillain” and venture capitalist co-founded Paypal.
The Thiel Foundation has invested in research that works toward this hypothetical event. Transhumanists like Thiel believe in the benefits of this term for technological superintelligence drastically changing human life.
Tesla Motors
Peter Thiel [“teel”]
singularity [or technological singularity] &lt;JK Current Events&gt;
This person failed to achieve a third consecutive World Championship “distance double” in 2017 after coming second to Muktar Edris. For 10 points each:
Name this knighted British runner who won the “distance double” in both the London and Rio Olympics, the most decorated track and field athlete of all time for the the United Kingdom.
This is the distance, in meters, of the longer of the two races of the distance double. This distance is the second longest running race after the marathon at the World Championships and the Olympics.
The parallel of the distance double for sprinting is winning the 100 and 200 meter races. This Jamaican sprinter accomplished that feat in the 2008, 2012, and 2016 Olympics, setting two world records along the way.
Mohamed Farah
10,000 meters [or 10K or 10 kilometers]
Usain Bolt
Answer the following about Hearthstone, an online collectible card game based on the Warcraft universe. For 10 points each:
Hearthstone was created by this gaming company, whose other games include the Starcraft and Diablo series.
In Hearthstone’s Mean Streets of Gadgetzan expansion, just about everyone played this adorable, hyper-aggressive pirate. He is literally shot out of a cannon onto the battlefield, and is named for an item of clothing.
While playing this class in Hearthstone, be sure to irritate your opponent by emoting “Well met!” Throughout several Blizzard games, members of this class include Tirion Fordring and Uther Lightbringer.
Blizzard Entertainment
Patches the Pirate
Paladins
One character in this movie removed the E from his H-A-T-E tattoo to better his job prospects. For 10 points each:
Name this 2017 movie. The title character of this movie, played by Ansel Elgort, constantly listens to music to drown out his tinnitus.
This actor plays Buddy, another member of Baby's heist crew, in Baby Driver. He is better known for a role in which he plays the creative director of Sterling Cooper Partners, Don Draper in Mad Men.
This English director of Baby Driver collaborated with Simon Pegg and Nick Frost on the Cornetto trilogy of World’s End, Hot Fuzz, and Shaun of the Dead.
Baby Driver
Jon Hamm
Edgar Wright
This band traveled to London to record their album <em>Fables of the Reconstruction</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this band that released the singles “Losing My Religion” and “It’s The End Of The World As We Know It.”
R.E.M.’s first single was this song, named after a US government program supported by the “Crusade for Freedom.” However, the lyrics are mostly indecipherable due to Michael Stipe’s mumbling.
A 2014 documentary was titled R.E.M “by” this TV channel, which helped popularize them. It was the first to feature 24/7 music videos and currently airs The Real World, Teen Mom 2, and Jersey Shore.
R.E.M.
“Radio Free Europe”
MTV
Most of this city’s main attractions are not in its city limits proper, but rather in an unincorporated community called Paradise directly to its south. For 10 points each:
Name this city home to hotels like the Bellagio and the MGM Grand, located along a major boulevard termed “the Strip.”
Before the casino industry took off, Las Vegas was popular in the 1950s because it was close to a site where these events occurred regularly. Other places in the world where these events occurred include Lop Nur and Semipalatinsk.
This iconic hotel on the Las Vegas Strip puts on a volcano show at regular intervals at night. This hotel was the home of Siegfried and Roy’s famous act with tigers before one of them mauled Roy and dragged him offstage.
Las Vegas
nuclear tests [or atomic bomb tests; prompt on hydrogen bomb tests]
the Mirage
In one scene, this movie’s title character stands in front of a massive poster of himself at a rally. For 10 points each:
Name this 1941 movie about the life of a fictional newspaper magnate and failed politician, directed by and starring Orson Welles.
For Citizen Kane, Gregg Toland experimented with low-angle and deep-focus shots while performing this job. While making a movie, people with this job are responsible for a film’s visual elements.
Bernard Herrmann wrote the score to Citizen Kane as well as this 1976 movie. Its main character declares “some day a real rain will come and wash all this scum off the streets,” and cuts his hair into a mohawk when he decides to assassinate Senator Palantine.
Citizen Kane
cinematographers [or directors of photography; accept cinematography]
Taxi Driver
This song plays over the sound of helicopters in <em>Forrest Gump</em> when Forrest first deploys to Vietnam. For 10 points each:
Name this Vietnam protest song by Creedence Clearwater Revival. During its chorus, John Fogerty repeats “it ain’t me” and claims that he is not the title kind of person.
“Fortunate Son” appears on the soundtrack of this widely panned 2016 group superhero film. Despite a 26 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes, it won an Academy Award for Best Makeup.
This other artist appeared on the Suicide Squad soundtrack with the song "Without Me." He's better known for the songs "Not Afraid" and "Lose Yourself," as well as his Slim Shady alter ego.
“Fortunate Son”
Suicide Squad
Eminem [or Marshall Mathers]
A September 2017 FBI indictment alleged that representatives of this company conspired with universities to illegally pay high school basketball players. For 10 points each:
Name this shoe company, the brand sponsor of schools such as Miami, Auburn, and Arizona, which were also implicated in the scandal.
This other university was mentioned in the FBI indictment as coordinating with Adidas to pay $100,000 to top recruit Brian Bowen. After the FBI report came out, this school fired its head basketball coach Rick Pitino.
This shoe company was not mentioned in the FBI report, despite its extensive involvement in college sports. This company sponsors athletes like Mia Hamm and LeBron James, who wear this company's trademark swoosh.
Adidas
University of Louisville [or UL]
Nike
This combination of diced vegetables is usually cooked down with butter or oil until sweet, unlike normal vegetable preparations so that it can be used as a base for many dishes. For 10 points each:
Name this vegetable base of French cuisine composed of onion, carrots, and celery. It is not to be confused with the French term for preparing all of these ingredients before cooking.
The “Holy Trinity” of onions, celery, and bell peppers is a variety of mirepoix used in cuisine from this city, whose Cajun cuisine features in Mardi Gras celebrations.
This official state dish of Louisiana likely derives its name from African names for okra. It is a stew of the Holy Trinity with Andouille sausage, chicken, and wild rice. Unlike jambalaya, it uses thickening agents like okra.
mirepoix [meer-pwah] (not to be confused with “mise en place” [mee zon plahs], which is the pre-cutting/chopping of ingredients to be cooked)
New Orleans, Louisiana
gumbo &lt;JL, Other&gt;
In this film, a dollying camera follows three men whose footsteps echo in a puddle-filled tunnel, nicknamed the “Meat-Grinder,” from which they enter a room filled with dunes. For 10 points each:
Name this film based on the novel Roadside Picnic. It follows three men who seek a wish-granting room in a dangerous area called “the Zone.”
The director of Stalker, Andrei Tarkovsky, was from this country, and the film was produced by its Mosfilm studio. Mosfilm also produced this country’s film Battleship Potemkin.
This director created a film about the Siberian hunter Dersu Uzala for Mosfilm. A Fistful of Dollars is a remake of this non-Russian director’s film about two criminal families competing for the services of a bodyguard.
Stalker
Soviet Union [or USSR; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; prompt on Russia]
Akira Kurosawa &lt;RY, OVisArt&gt;
Folk traditions identify this hero with a real person who worked on the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad during the 1870s. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary “steel-drivin’ man” who won a contest against a mechanical drilling machine but died from the effort.
A key figure in American folklore was this giant lumberjack who appeared alongside his blue ox, Babe, in numerous tall tales from the American Midwest.
This giant sea-captain from Massachusetts is the subject of tall tales involving his fight with the Kraken and his invention of doughnuts, which took place when he stuck a round pastry on the spokes of his ship’s wheel.
John Henry [prompt on partial answer]
Paul Bunyan
Alfred Bulltop Stormalong [or Captain Stormalong] &lt;VC, Myth&gt;
A dolly zoom in this film emphasizes the intimidating stature of the protagonist’s rival, Sugar Ray Robinson. For 10 points each:
Name this film about the boxer Jake LaMotta, who is played by Robert de Niro.
In the last scene of the film, LaMotta delivers a monologue that Marlon Brando gave in On the Waterfront. Even more iconic is Brando’s line “I’m gonna make him an offer he can’t refuse” from this other film.
In Raging Bull, LaMotta delivers the “I coulda been a contender” monologue using one of these objects. In the last scene of another film, a man uses one of these objects to talk to Betsy, who volunteers for Senator Palantine.
Raging Bull
The Godfather
mirror (The last scene in Taxi Driver) &lt;RY, OVisArt&gt;
Answer some questions about the public health of Scotland, which is actually pretty terrible. For 10 points each:
Mars, Incorporated officially stated that their “commitment to healthy, active lifestyles” was being violated by the popular Scottish tradition of cooking these sweet food items by deep frying them.
The affinity for deep fried Mars bars is sometimes cited as part of the reason for this Scottish city’s low life expectancy. Another reason why people in this city die quickly could be all the rioting between supporters of this city’s Celtic [SELL-tick] and Rangers football clubs.
Armed gangs in Glasgow committed violence against each other in the 1980s while driving these commercial vehicles; the Strathclyde police who failed to address the criminal activity were nicknamed the “serious chimes squad.”
chocolate bars [accept more specific answers such as Mars bars]
Glasgow
ice cream trucks [or synonyms; prompt on just trucks or vans or lorries] &lt;VC, Other&gt;
Thanks to this man winning a Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016, we’re now allowed to write a non-trash bonus on him. For 10 points each:
Name this folk singer of “Like a Rolling Stone.”
“Scarborough Fair” was a favorite of many songwriters, including Bob Dylan, who was inspired by a recording to write “Girl from the North Country.” Identify the four plants mentioned in the second line of “Scarborough Fair.”
Dylan listed among his musical influences this blues singer, who was known as the “Mother of Blues.” She sang while Louis Armstrong played the trumpet on many songs by the Georgia Jazz Band.
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]
“parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme”
“Ma” Rainey [or Gertrude Malissa Nix Pridgett] &lt;WA, OAudArt&gt;
This company produced a film in which a man builds a makeshift bus to reenact his fantasy of meeting a redheaded girl. For 10 points each:
Name this American film studio whose output includes Swiss Army Man, Ex Machina, and Barry Jenkins’s film Moonlight, which won 2016’s Best Picture Oscar.
In Swiss Army Man, Daniel Radcliffe repeatedly hums a version of the theme from this earlier film. John Williams composed that theme, which plays in this film as a group of people in a Jeep encounter a brachiosaurus.
This A24 film ends with a long take of a woman seated alone at a diner booth. Yorgos Lanthimos directed this 2015 film about a dystopia in which people are given a last chance to find a spouse before being turned into animals.
A24 Films
Jurassic Park
The Lobster &lt;RY, OVisArt&gt;
In 2017, this company faced legal action, including a class-action suit, over claims that it sold faulty eclipse glasses to people who later sustained eye damage. For 10 points each:
Name this online retailer that recently entered the grocery business by purchasing Whole Foods.
Jeff Bezos, who founded Amazon, also founded this aerospace company that operates the New Shepard reusable launch vehicle. This company conducts test flights from a facility near Van Horn, Texas.
Since 2013, this publication has been owned by Jeff Bezos. This publication’s associate editors include Bob Woodward, who has worked at it since 1971.
Amazon.com
Blue Origin
The Washington Post &lt;VC, Other&gt;
The protagonist of this video game series has his life changed when his home, Destiny Island, is attacked by monsters known as Heartless and he is separated from his friends Riku and Kairi. For 10 points each:
Name this video game series based on the adventures of Sora, who wields a keyblade. Many Final Fantasy and Disney characters feature prominently in this series.
This Utada Hikaru song, whose chorus asks “walk away, you don’t hear me say please / oh baby, don’t go” serves as the main theme for the first Kingdom Hearts game.
This rival of Sephiroth, the protagonist of Final Fantasy VII, battles Sora when he arrives in the Olympus Coliseum. He wields a massive sword wrapped in what appear to be bandages.
Kingdom Hearts [or Kingudamu Hātsu]
“Simple and Clean”
Cloud Strife
One character portrayed by this actor decides to invest in a restaurant along with his friends Jeff Greene and Ted Danson. For 10 points each:
Name this writer and actor who portrayed a fictional version of himself in Curb Your Enthusiasm.
David co-created and wrote for this show in which the title character frequents Monk’s Cafe with his friends George, Elaine, and Kramer.
In season four of Curb, Larry is cast as the lead in this Broadway show based on a 1968 comedy film. This show infamously features a fictional Broadway show called Springtime for Hitler.
Larry David
Seinfeld
The Producers
Answer the following about comics who made their name on Jon Stewart’s The Daily Show, for 10 points each.
This comic used to activate the “God Machine” in the Daily Show’s “This Week in God” segment. His own Comedy Central show included segments like “The Word”, and he recently took over from David Letterman at “The Late Show.”
In an early episode of his “Last Week Tonight”, former Daily Show correspondent John Oliver ripped into the corruption in this world sports organization that was then led by Sepp Blatter. Its 2022 World Cup will inexplicably be held in Qatar.
This former Daily Show correspondent controversially called Barack Obama “my n-word” at the 2016 White House Correspondents dinner. He briefly hosted the now-cancelled Nightly Show.
Stephen Colbert
FIFA [or Fédération Internationale de Football Association; or International Federation of Association Football]
Larry Wilmore
One artist on this track reminisces about watching “orange cassette tapes / with Timmy, Tommy and Chuckie,” and bemoans having to wear visine so his grandma will hug him. For 10 points each:
Name this song from the mixtape Acid Rap whose chorus repeats “cigarettes on cigarettes, my mama think I stink.”
“Cocoa Butter Kisses” is a song by this Chicago-based artist who recently released his third mixtape Coloring Book.
This female rapper, who appears with Chance on the song “Lost” recently released her first mixtape Telefone, which features songs like “Shadow Man” and “Diddy Bop.”
“Cocoa Butter Kisses”
Chance the Rapper [accept Lil Chano from 79th or Chancellor Bennett]
Noname Gypsy
The variety of leaves used in Assam to make this drink are distinguished by their larger size compared to those from southern China. For 10 points each:
Name this drink that takes its flavor from the leaves of Camellia sinensis, typically prepared with hot water. It is classified into types such as green or oolong based on how the leaves are processed.
This type of flavored tea is prepared by boiling milk and water with a mixture of black tea leaves and various spices, usually including ginger and cardamom. A namesake latte is often sold in Western coffee shops.
This tea is brewed from leaves grown in its namesake West Bengali district on the slopes of the Himalayas. It is sometimes called the “champagne of tea” for its slight muscatel flavor.
tea
masala chai
Darjeeling tea
A fake Reddit thread claimed that Steam was giving out refunds for this game regardless of time played. For 10 points each,
Identify this highly promoted flop from Hello Games. The 18 quintillion planets that are available for exploration in this game proved to be a major hindrance its multiplayer feature.
Instead of creating each world manually, No Man’s Sky uses this process for creating its universe. This process uses an algorithm to create data and textures.
This Mojang game also utilizes procedural generation. Developed by Notch, this game is partially based on Infiniminer and allows players to gather resources and build with chunky blocks.
No Man’s Sky
procedural generation [prompt on random generation]
Minecraft
Answer the following about iconic shots in silent film history for 10 points each.
The end of a 1903 Edwin S. Porter film about this kind of robbery ends with a criminal pointing his gun at the camera and shooting. The western film, titled for a “great” kind of this robbery, is about outlaws who rob a certain transportation system.
Count Orlok has an iconic appearance in this F.W. Murnau film considered one of the greatest horror movies of all time. Most copies of this film were destroyed after a judge ruled it was an unauthorized adaptation of Dracula.
“This silent comedian famously clutches the hands of a large clock in a stunt he personally performed in the comedy Safety Last!. He frequently played a character known as “Glasses”.
train robbery
Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horror [or Nosferatu: eine Symphonie des Grauens]
Harold Clayton Lloyd, Sr. &lt;Cheyne&gt;
From 1952 to 1987, a man with this surname and the first name William was the editor of <em>The New Yorker</em>. For 10 points each:
Give this surname that William shares with his son Wallace, a playwright and actor who appeared opposite Andre Gregory in My Dinner with Andre and voiced the dinosaur Rex in the Toy Story films.
William Shawn was said to carry a hatchet in his briefcase in case he ever became stuck in one of these devices. The Otis Company is the world's largest manufacturer of them.
Wallace Shawn's voice acting credits include Bertram, the younger brother of this animated character; Bertram first battles this character as a sperm and then is born via artificial insemination.
Shawn [William or Wallace]
elevators [or lifts]
Stewie Griffin [or Stewart Gilligan Griffin; prompt on “Griffin”] &lt;Hart&gt;
Answer the following about Carsten Gehring's favorite Craig T. Nelson TV role...Hayden Fox on <em>Coach</em>. For 10 points each:
Coach was set in this state, whose real-life professional sports teams include the Twins, Vikings, and Timberwolves.
Hayden Fox, however, was based on Hayden Fry, a long-time college coach in this state, and most of the shots of the “Minnesota State” campus were from an university in this state. That university in this state has won 23 wrestling national championships.
In the final seasons of Coach, Hayden Fox became a NFL coach in this city, which does not have a NFL team. Its NBA team was the last one coached by Chuck Daly and also employed for nine years a man who once shot a layup in a Slam Dunk Contest, Darrell Armstrong.
Minnesota
Iowa
Orlando &lt;Cheyne&gt;
This director pioneered a kind of low-angle, static shot called the tatami shot and frequently used sackcloth as the background of his credits sequences. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese director whose film Late Spring includes a famous shot of a vase in front of a screen. In 2012, his film Tokyo Story replaced Citizen Kane atop the Sight &amp; Sound directors’ poll.
Ozu is considered one of the greatest masters of Japanese film along with Kenji Mizoguchi and this director of The Seven Samurai and Rashomon.
The style of Ozu is compared with Dreyer and Bresson in a monograph by Paul Schrader, who also wrote the screenplay for this film in which disturbed loner Travis Bickle plots to shoot Senator Charles Palantine.
Yasujiro Ozu
Akira Kurosawa
Taxi Driver &lt;Kothari&gt;
Answer the following about Super Bowl 50, for 10 points each.
Despite a 15-1 regular season record, this team's offense, led by Cam Newton, couldn't make much headway against Denver's stifling defense and fell to the Broncos 24-10.
This Broncos outside linebacker forced a pair of fumbles that set up two Denver touchdowns and recorded two and a half sacks, accomplishments that more than warranted his selection as the game's MVP.
During a postgame interview with Tracy Wolfson, Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning described his priorities as wanting to “go kiss my wife and my kids, go hug my family, and” perform what off-puttingly brand-conscious action?
Carolina Panthers [accept either]
Von Miller [or Vonnie B'Vsean Miller]
drink a lot of Budweiser tonight [prompt on “drink beer” or other less-specific answers] &lt;Carson&gt;
In Francine Prose's novel <em>Goldengrove</em>, the 13-year-old protagonist is named after this singer. For 10 points each:
Name this German singer who provided vocals on the debut album of The Velvet Underground; the album, which has a banana on its cover, is named for this woman and the band.
In Goldengrove, the protagonist listens to Nico's version of this jazz standard from the Rogers and Hart musical Babes in Arms. Kevin Shields is the lead vocalist of an Irish shoegaze band whose name is a pun on this song's title.
The lead singer of the Velvet Underground was this glam rocker, whose solo album Transformer included the songs “Perfect Day” and “Walk on the Wild Side”.
Nico [or Christa Paffgen; accept The Velvet Underground and Nico]
“My Funny Valentine” [do not accept or prompt on “My Bloody Valentine”]
Lou Reed [or Lewis Allen Reed] &lt;Hart&gt;
Kurt Russell pissed off the Martin Museum by committing this action in <em>The Hateful Eight</em>, and Bluto says “sorry” after doing this to an aspiring folk singer playing “I Gave My Love a Cherry” in <em>Animal House</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this action that Jeff Beck does in a scene in Antonioni's Blowup out of frustration with his buzzing amplifier.
“This band's drummer Keith Moon exploded his drum set as Pete Townshend smashed his guitar during an episode of The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour during which they sang “My Generation”.
The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour was a rather more subversive predecessor to this comedy show, in which Judy Carne, and later Richard Nixon, used the stock phrase “sock it to me!”
smashing a guitar [or clear equivalents about destroying guitars; prompt on less specific answers]
The Who
Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In &lt;Kothari&gt;
This film's antagonist knows the identity of the pilot of a nearby ship because the radar has been jammed and “there's only one man who would <em>dare</em> give me the raspberry”. For 10 points each:
Name this 1987 film in which President Skroob is the leader of a planet facing an air shortage.
Skroob was portrayed in Spaceballs by this director of the film. He also directed The Producers, Blazing Saddles, and Young Frankenstein.
In Spaceballs, after the airlock code of Druidia is revealed to be this series of digits, Dark Helmet remarks “that's the kinda thing an idiot would have on his luggage!” Immediately thereafter, President Skroob reveals that this series of digits is his actual luggage combination.
Spaceballs
Mel Brooks [or Melvin James Brooks or Melvin James Kaminsky]
1-2-3-4-5 &lt;Hart&gt;
In this show's episode “Buridan's Ass”, fish falling from the sky cause a bodyguard driving Dmitri, the son of “supermarket king” Stavros Milos, to die in a car accident. For 10 points each:
Name this show whose first season began with the insurance salesman Lester Nygaard meeting a criminal who later murders a former high school bully in a hospital waiting room in Bemidji, Minnesota.
The wife-murdering, quirky Lester Nygaard was played by this actor, who is perhaps better known for playing John Watson on Sherlock.
This drifter played by Billy Bob Thornton blackmails Stavros Milos and kills Numbers and Wrench. He amusingly expresses his disgust for Turkish delight before setting up Chumph's death by cop.
Fargo
Martin Freeman
Lorne Malvo [accept either name] &lt;Jose&gt;
Accidentally entering “yuo” in the Google Chrome search bar while attempting to type “Youtube” may lead you to an unusually often-viewed video posted by some Italian guy of a sped-up version of this song attributed to Theodore the Chipmunk. For 10 points each:
Name this song whose chorus describes “the world, for once, in perfect harmony / with all its living things”. The singer of its first two verses laments that “our trio's down to two” and complains that “disaster's in the air” because of “all this romantic atmosphere”.
“Can You Feel the Love Tonight” was written by Tim Rice and Elton John for this 1994 Disney animated feature, in which it is mostly performed as a duet between Nala and Simba.
Scar's big musical number in The Lion King is this song, in which he provides the title advice to an audience of hyenas. In it, Scar notes that “a shining new era is tiptoeing nearer” and asserts that “our teeth and ambitions are bared”.
“Can You Feel the Love Tonight”
The Lion King
“Be Prepared” &lt;Carson&gt;
This man is one of the foremost proponents of using sparklines and small multiples to avoid what he terms “chartjunk”. For 10 points each:
Name this Yale political scientist and statistician who wrote Beautiful Evidence, Visual Explanations, and The Visual Display of Quantitative Information.
Tufte wrote a popular essay lambasting the “cognitive style” of this member of the Microsoft Office suite. The U.S. Army is making efforts to curb use of this presentation software.
According to Tufte, PowerPoint caused misunderstandings between NASA engineers and managers prior to this 2003 disaster, during which a piece of foam insulation damaged the left wing of an orbiter.
Edward Tufte [or Edward Rolf Tufte]
Microsoft PowerPoint
disintegration of Space Shuttle Columbia [or equivalents implying that Columbia failed or its crew died; don't accept “explosion of Columbia” since it didn't explode] &lt;Kothari&gt;
In 2016, this character filmed an internet short at the University of New Hampshire and gave a “trigger warning” that “in this video there will be the clear depiction of a dog pretending to be interested in what a college student is saying”. For 10 points each:
Name this character, voiced by Robert Smigel (SMY-gull), whose signature line is “for me to poop on!”
Triumph debuted on the NBC late night show of this former writer for The Simpsons, who got a namesake show on TBS after Jay Leno took The Tonight Show back from him.
Triumph was scolded by both Al Roker and Kathie Lee Gifford while appearing on this program in 2000. In 1999, this show surged in popularity when Gilbert Gottfried repeatedly yelled “YOU FOOL!” at contestants.
Triumph the Insult Comic Dog
Conan O'Brien [or Conan Christopher O'Brien]
Hollywood Squares &lt;Hart&gt;
The heating-oil-hoarding antagonist of the 1997 Val Kilmer vehicle <em>The Saint</em> has this surname, as does the man who became the first person born and trained outside of North America to be inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. For 10 points each:
Give this surname whose most famous holder is undoubtedly longtime CSKA Moscow goalie Vladislav.
Vladislav Tretiak was inexplicably pulled by Soviet head coach Viktor Tikhonov after the first period of this 1980 game, which turned out to be a major factor in the American team's shocking upset victory. It takes its common name from an exclamation made by commentator Al Michaels.
In the 2004 film Miracle, American coach Herb Brooks was played by this actor, who starred as Snake Plissken in Escape from New York and Escape from L.A.. He also played Stuntman Mike in Death Proof.
Tretiak
the Miracle on Ice [or the 1980 Winter Olympics mens' hockey semifinal between the USSR and the USA]
Kurt Russell [or Kurt Vogel Russell] &lt;Carson&gt;
Examples of this kind of game include <em>Halo 2600</em> and <em>Super Smash Land</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this type of video game created by adapting a newer game for an older platform or for a platform with lesser technology specifications.
Gang Garrison 2 is essentially a demake of this Valve Software game, in which the RED team fights against the BLU team.
In 2005, a Chinese company made a demake of this game for the NES. Sadly, lines of dialogue like “even unpopular dweebs like you may meet their destiny here”, and Barret being told “you look like a bear wearing a marshmallow”, were left out.
demakes [do not accept or prompt on “remake[s]”, obviously]
Team Fortress 2 [do not accept or prompt on partial answers.]
Final Fantasy VII [or FF7] &lt;Jose&gt;
Brian De Palma's film <em>Obsession</em> was heavily based on this earlier movie. For 10 points each:
Name this 1958 film in which detective Scottie Ferguson becomes obsessed with Madeleine Elster, who apparently jumped to her death from a mission's bell tower. In the climax of this movie, Scottie finally overcomes the title fear.
Vertigo was directed by this “Master of Suspense”, who also directed films like Rear Window and Psycho.
Hitchcock often claimed his favorite of his movies was this 1943 film, in which the protagonist, teenager Charlie Newton, discovers that her favorite uncle, also named Charlie, is actually a serial killer.
Vertigo
Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock
Shadow of a Doubt &lt;Cheyne&gt;
A popular video clip featuring this phrase was taken from a video of its speaker delivering various “motivational words of wisdom” while standing in front of a white screen. For 10 points each:
Give this memetic two-word phrase, first delivered by its speaker in the intro to the music video for “How Many Times” after pulling up in a black car, asking a woman “who's your inspiration?”, replying to her answer with “that's the smartest thing you've ever said in your life”, and demanding a kiss.
“Another one”, like “you smart, you loyal” and “congratulations...you played yourself”, is an internet-beloved phrase associated with this hip-hop artist, whose highest-charting songs include “I'm On One” and “All I Do Is Win”.
Khaled served as the DJ for Terror Squad, whose namesake record label was founded by this Latino rapper, whose 1995 album Jealous One's Envy featured the first appearance of Big Pun. You probably know him better for his hit 2004 duet with Remy Ma, “Lean Back”.
another one
DJ Khaled [or Khaled Mohammed Khaled]
Fat Joe [or Joseph Antonio Cartagena] &lt;Carson&gt;
Answer the following about ridiculous soccer coaches, for 10 points each.
This country’s national team was coached by Miguel Herrera until he attacked a reporter after it won the 2015 Gold Cup. It plays its home games in the Azteca stadium and is the United States’ biggest continental rival.
This London-based club is managed by Jose Mourinho, who once referred to himself as “the special one” and regularly gets into spats with Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger. It won the 2014-2015 English Premier League.
While manager of Liverpool, this Spaniard went on a strange tirade against Manchester United’s Alex Ferguson, repeatedly yelling his accusations were “facts!” He replaced Carlo Ancelotti as manager of Real Madrid.
Mexico
Chelsea FC [or Chelsea Football Club]
Rafael Benitez [or Rafael Rafa Benitez Maudes]
Answer the following about spicy food, for 10 points each.
This delicious and trendy Southeast Asian red chili paste is best known in the United States through a version produced by Huy Fong Foods, which puts a picture of a rooster on its bottles.
These spicy peppers, which are green when ripe, are smoked to create chipotles. They are wrapped in bacon and stuffed with cheese to make their namesake “poppers.”
The spice of peppers is measured on this scale, named after an American pharmacist. The ghost pepper is measured at around 1,000,000 on this scale, while the bell pepper manages a measly 0.
Sriracha sauce
jalapeño peppers
Scoville scale
A GQ profile of this celebrity by Drew Magary begins with the line “I have been specifically told I will be able to punch [him] in the face.” For 10 points each:
Name this high-pitched Canadian teen heartthrob who dated Selena Gomez after releasing the irritatingly popular song “Baby.”
Justin Bieber’s obnoxious streak intensified after he visited a museum dedicated to this girl, writing in the guest book that he hoped this girl “would have been a Belieber.”
Saturday Night Live parodied Bieber’s Calvin Klein ad campaign by having this female cast member portray a juvenile version of the celebrity. She also performs excellent impressions of Hillary Clinton and Ellen DeGeneres.
Justin Bieber [or Justin Drew Bieber]
Anne Frank [or Annelies Marie Frank]
Kate McKinnon [or Kate McKinnon Berthold]
The Spirit of the Troy is one of these organizations at the University of Southern California, and one of these institutions at the Ohio State University performs the “Script Ohio” routine. For 10 points each:
Name this type of musical organization that is generally led by a Drum Major.
The Stanford Marching Band infamously took the field too early at the end of a 1982 game against this other college, Stanford’s biggest rival. They are nicknamed the “Golden Bears” and play at Memorial Stadium in Berkeley.
This man was Stanford’s quarterback during the contentious 1982 game against Berkeley. He won two superbowls as quarterback for the Denver Broncos from 1983 to 1998.
marching bands [prompt on “bands” or “university bands”]
University of California, Berkeley [or Cal-Berkeley; or UC Berkeley; prompt on just “Berkeley”]
John Elway [or John Albert Elway, Jr.]
A film about this company has the tagline “You don’t get to 500 million friends without making a few enemies.” For 10 points each:
Name this company whose founding was controversially fictionalized in The Social Network, which depicted its CEO Mark Zuckerberg as a borderline autistic jerk.
This actor was Oscar-nominated for his portrayal of Mark Zuckerberg in The Social Network. He recently played a stoner sleeper-agent in American Ultra.
In an excellent scene from The Social Network, Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross’ electronic version of this classical music piece plays over the Winklevoss twins’ rowing regatta.
Facebook
Jesse Eisenberg [or Jesse Adam Eisenberg]
“In the Hall of the Mountain King”
The cover of one of this band’s albums depicts two men shaking hands, one of whom is on fire. For 10 points each:
Name this band that also released an album whose cover art shows a beam of light travelling through a triangular prism and leaving as a rainbow.
The tracks “Speak to Me” and “Money” appear on this landmark 1973 Pink Floyd album. Some people like to play it synchronously with The Wizard of Oz.
This track on Dark Side of the Moon mostly consists of wordless vocal vamping performed by Clare Torry over a keyboard progression. It begins and ends with non-singing voices reading statements about death.
Pink Floyd
The Dark Side of the Moon
“The Great Gig in the Sky"
Chess! For 10 points each:
This most powerful piece in the game of chess can move as many squares as it wants vertically, horizontally, and diagonally.
In this common defensive chess move, the king moves two spaces in one direction and the rook “jumps” over the king and takes its place on the opposite side. It can’t be done if the king and rook in question have moved.
White traditionally castles queenside, rather than kingside, in the Dragon variation of this common chess opening, in which Black plays c5 on the first move to counter an opening of e4.
queen
castling
Sicilian defense
Name the following Major League Baseball Hall of Famers who spent their entire careers with one team, for 10 points each.
This New York Yankees first baseman played in 2,130 straight games from 1923 to 1939 before dying of ALS, which is commonly referred to as this man’s disease.
This slick fielding third baseman for the Baltimore Orioles from 1955 to 1977 was known as the "Human Vacuum Cleaner" and won 16 consecutive Gold Glove Awards. He hit into a record four triple plays in his career.
This outfielder for the St. Louis Cardinals made 24 All-Star teams in 22 seasons between 1941 and 1963. He won three National League Most Valuable Player awards and was nicknamed “The Man.”
Lou Gehrig
Brooks Calbert Robinson Jr.
Stan Musial
Answer the following about lake-dwelling monsters, for 10 points each.
This most famous water monster is said to reside in a lake in the Scottish Highlands.
A North American analog to the Loch Ness monster named “Champy” supposedly lives in this lake. The Battle of Plattsburgh occurred in this lake during the War of 1812.
The best known “photograph” of the Loch Ness monster is this one, which was taken in 1934 by Kenneth Wilson. This hoax photograph got its name due to Wilson’s job as a physician.
the Loch Ness monster [or Nessie]
Lake Champlain
the “Surgeon’s Photograph”
Answer the following about artificial intelligence in film, for 10 points each.
This director cast Haley Joel Osment as a “Mecha” child trying to turn into a real human in his film A.I Artificial Intelligence. He also directed Jaws, Jurassic Park and Schindler’s List.
In Stanley Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey, this sentient computer tries to kill the crew of the Discovery One. It sings “Daisy Bell” as Dave shuts it down.
This computer system runs the spaceship Nostromo in the film Alien. Ellen Ripley eventually realizes that this computer brought the Nostromo into contact with the alien so that the Weyland corporation could weaponize it.
Steven Spielberg [or Steven Allan Spielberg]
HAL 9000
MOTHER
The main character on this show used a raspberry pi to access a climate control system. FTPE:
Name this USA drama on which Rami Malek plays a computer hacker.
Mr Robot was created by Sam Esmail, who is engaged to this actress. She plays Fiona Gallagher on Shameless, and has appeared in movies such as The Day After Tomorrow, The Phantom of the Opera, and Mystic River.
Sam Esmail wrote and directed this 2014 film, which stars Emmy Rossum and Justin Long as a couple whose six-year relationship is depicted at various points in time.
Mr. Robot
Emmy Rossum
Comet
Answer the following about what some women have worn on the red carpet, for 10 points each.
At the 2010 MTV VMAs, this woman wore a dress made of raw meat. She released the album Born This Way, and plays an old vampire on American Horror Story: Hotel.
This woman wore a pink dress designed by Ralph Lauren at the 1999 Academy Awards, where she won Best Actress for playing Viola de Lesseps in the film Shakespeare in Love.
At the 1995 Academy Awards, Lizzy Gardiner wore a dress made out of these objects.
Lady Gaga [or Stefani Germanotta]
Gwyneth Paltrow
credit cards [or American Express cards; or Gold Cards]
Brian Witt came up with the nickname for these people, who are both the sons of former players, and who include the reigning MVP and a person who once scored 37 points in a quarter. FTPE:
Name these so-called "siblings" who play guard for the Golden State Warriors.
This team, led by Lebron James, lost to the Golden State Warriors in the 2015 NBA Finals.
[5 each] Name the colleges Stephen Curry and Klay Thomspon attended. One of them recently switched from the Southern Conference to the A-10, while the other is in the city of Pullman.
Splash Brothers [or Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson]
Cleveland Cavaliers [accept either]
Davidson and Washington State
Answer the following about the animated films of Don Bluth, for 10 points each.
Wikipedia accurately describes the Burt Reynolds-voiced protagonist of this film as “Charlie B. Barkin, a German Shepherd who is murdered”. Charlie returns to Earth to get revenge, but ends up helping out an orphan girl instead.
Bluth wisely disassociated himself from the, get this, TWELVE musical sequels to this 1988 dinosaur movie, in which Littlefoot, Ducky, Cera, and Petrie seek the Great Valley and avoid getting killed by a “Sharptooth”.
The only direct-to-video spinoff of one of his movies that Bluth actually directed stars this Hank Azaria- voiced bat, who’d originally appeared as a minion of Rasputin in Anastasia.
All Dogs Go to Heaven
The Land Before Time
Bartok [or Bartok the Magnificent]
Washington DC based electronic duo Thievery Corporation titled their 2014 album “Saudade.” For 10 points each:
The word saudade is often translated as an intense feeling of this type. The term for this feeling was coined by Johannes Hofer, who wanted to describe a longing for home common among Swiss mercenaries.
The word saudade is from this language. An author who wrote primarily in this language adopted heteronyms like Ricardo Reis, and wrote a poetry collection called Message, which was a mystical retelling of his country’s history.
“Chega de Saudade”, or “No More Blues,” was an early hit for Joao Gilberto, a pioneer of this genre, which draws from samba and jazz influences. It emerged in Brazil in the 1960s.
nostalgia
Portuguese
Bossa nova
Answer the following about rock critic Jim DeRogatis, for 10 points each.
DeRogatis was fired from Rolling Stone after revealing that Jann Wenner had pulled his negative review of this Darius Rucker-fronted band’s second album Fairweather Johnson. Their first album, Cracked Rear View, included the hits “Hold My Hand” and “Only Wanna Be With You”.
In 2000, DeRogatis published Let it Blurt, a biography of this pioneering rock critic who wrote the essay “Let Us Now Praise Famous Death Dwarves” about Lou Reed while serving as editor of the magazine Creem.
DeRogatis was named as a witness in the 2008 child pornography trial of this “King of R&amp;B”, whose less heinous accomplishments include “Ignition (Remix)” and the “hip-hopera” Trapped in the Closet.
Hootie &amp; the Blowfish
Lester Bangs [or Leslie Conway Bangs]
R. Kelly [or Robert Sylvester Kelly]
Answer the following about television shows that have served as the "lead-out" program for the Super Bowl, i.e. airing right after the game, for 10 points each.
This show was the very first program to air after a Super Bowl. It actually aired three times after a Super Bowl and featured the adventures of an adorable Collie dog who lets adults know that Timmy has fallen down a well.
This TV sitcom aired a 1996 episode after the Super Bowl called "The One After the Super Bowl," in which one of the characters looks for his former monkey, Marcel.
This show premiered in 1988 after the Super Bowl. Its opening credits aired behind a Joe Cocker version of "With a Little Help from My Friends" and it was narrated by Daniel Stern.
Lassie
Friends
The Wonder Years
This character loves the smell of other people's hair. For 10 points each:
Name this leather jacket wearing, mustache sporting commercial character. When his cable is out, which is implied to be frequently, he goes down to the rec center and watches other people swim.
Super Creepy Rob Lowe is one of the many Rob Lowe alternate personas in the endless series of TV spots for this satellite service that is definitely not cable.
Lowe recently starred in a National Geographic Channel adaptation of this Bill O'Reilly historical book. O'Reilly has written similar books about Patton, Jesus, and Abraham Lincoln.
Super Creepy Rob Lowe [prompt on Rob Lowe, accept Robert for Rob]
DirecTV
Killing Kennedy: The End of Camelot
This group included the moderately controversial line “making love in the afternoon” in a song about a variably faithful woman who is accused of “breaking my heart and shaking my confidence daily”. For 10 points each:
Name this folk duo whose aforementioned song “Cecilia”, like “Keep the Customer Satisfied” and “The Boxer”, appeared on their 1970 album Bridge over Troubled Water.
A sequel to Simon &amp; Garfunkel’s “Cecilia”, also called “Cecilia”, was released in 1999 by this Swedish band, who are broadly similar to but not the same as ABBA. Their nonuple-platinum debut album, Happy Nation, includes their biggest hit, “The Sign”.
The entirely unrelated song “Cecilia and the Satellite” was released in 2014 by this artist, the former lead singer of both Something Corporate and Jack’s Mannequin. He now performs as himself “in the Wilderness”.
Simon &amp; Garfunkel
Ace of Base
Andrew McMahon [or Andrew McMahon in the Wilderness]
Answer the following about the curious intersections between professional wrestling and classical music for 10 points each.
This legendary grappler, known as the "Nature Boy," entered the ring to the tune of Strauss' "Also Sprach Zarathustra." You probably know that he screams "WOO!" a lot as his catchphrase. You also may know he's a Rolex wearing, diamond ring wearing, kiss stealing, wheelin' dealin', limousine ridin', jet flyin', son of a gun.
Daniel Bryan enters the ring while an instrumental version of this piece plays. In a Bugs Bunny cartoon, Elmer Fudd sings "Kill the wabbit!" to the tune of this piece.
Mr. Perfect entered the ring to the tune of the quasi-classical theme from the movie Exodus, whose screenplay was written by this blacklisted member of the Hollywood Ten. He wrote the anti-war novel Johnny Got His Gun.
Ric Flair [or Richard Morgan Fliehr]
"Ride of the Valkyries"
(James) Dalton Trumbo [or Robert Rich]
While scrambling for a first down during Super Bowl XXXII, this player was hit in midair by Leroy Butler and Mike Prior in a play later referred to as “The Helicopter”. For 10 points each:
Name this horse-faced player who led “The Drive” in the 1987 AFC Championship game, a longtime Denver Broncos quarterback who is now the Broncos’ general manager.
Elway’s 3,407 career rushing yards put him at sixth all-time for quarterbacks, directly behind this former signal- caller for the Titans and Ravens who was murdered by his mistress in 2009.
Among Elway’s many embarrassing Super Bowl losses was a 42-10 blowout at the hands of this team in 1988. This team was led by quarterback Doug Williams and Timmy Smith, a rookie who rushed for a then-record 204 yards.
John Elway [or John Albert Elway, Jr.]
Steve McNair [or Stephen LaTreal McNair; or of course Air McNair]
Washington Redskins [accept either underlined portion]
This song’s second verse lists things like “cherry lips, crystal skies” and “stolen kisses, pretty lies” and ends with the line “Darling I'm a nightmare dressed like a daydream”. For 10 points each:
Name this 2014 song whose singer claims to have a “long list of ex-lovers” who’ll “tell you I’m insane”.
“Blank Space” was the second single from 1989, the fifth album by this singer, whose recent songs like “Shake It Off” and “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together” are way better than her earlier pop-country releases.
Swift’s 2012 song “Treacherous” was co-written by Dan Wilson, whose fame as a producer has probably eclipsed his fame as the lead singer of this 90s band, whose songs include “Secret Smile” and “Closing Time”.
“Blank Space”
Taylor Swift [or Taylor Alison Swift; or T-Swizzle]
Semisonic
The Dutch version of this show was hosted by Arthur Japin, the author of <em>The Two Hearts of Kwasi Boachi</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this British panel quiz show in which obvious-but-wrong answers earn a siren and a forfeit. Research is performed by a team of namesake “Elves”, and its only permanent panelist is Alan Davies (“davis”).
The host of QI, Stephen Fry, had a long-lasting comedic partnership with this other British comedian, who is certainly more familiar to American audiences for starring as the title character in House.
Fry’s novel The Stars’ Tennis Balls is an adaptation of The Count of Monte Cristo but takes its title from this John Webster tragedy, whose title character marries Antonio and in turn is strangled by servants of her brothers.
QI [or Quite Interesting]
Hugh Laurie [or James Hugh Calum Laurie]
The Duchess of Malfi
Answer the following about Nolan North’s thousands of non-<em>Uncharted</em> voice-acting roles, for 10 points each.
He voices Desmond Miles, whose murderous ancestors Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad, Ezio Auditore, Ratonhnhaké:ton (“rah-doon-ha-gay-doon”), and Edward Kenway are the stars of this series of Ubisoft games.
North is Captain Martin Walker, who leads a Delta Force team into a ruined Dubai in search of Colonel Konrad, in this 2012 third-person shooter, which is based largely on Heart of Darkness.
North plays himself as one of the voice options for the protagonist of this 2013 game. Its DLC mission packs include one in which its protagonists “Save Christmas”, one called “Enter the Dominatrix”, and one called “Gat Out of Hell”.
Assassin’s Creed
Spec Ops: The Line [prompt on partial answer]
Saints Row IV
An oft-parodied advertisement preceding episodes of this podcast involves a girl who is inexplicably unable to pronounce “Mailchimp.” For 10 points each:
Name this podcast narrated by Sarah Koenig, whose first season covered the controversy surrounding the arrest and trial of Adnan Syed for the murder of his girlfriend Hae Min Lee.
This Muslim-American activist and lawyer brought Koenig’s attention to Adnan’s case. As a friend of the Syed family, she leads the campaign to free Adnan.
Koenig produced episodes like “Habeas Schmabeas” for This American Life, whose producer, WBEZ, is a member organization of this non-profit media group. It broadcasts Morning Edition and All Things Considered.
Serial
Rabia Chaudry [accept either underlined portion]
National Public Radio [or NPR]
Answer the following about <em>Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan</em>, for 10 points each:
The titular villain was played by this soft Corinthian leather enthusiast, a Mexican actor who played Mr. Roarke on Fantasy Island but might be better known to you no-good kids as Grandfather Valentin in the Spy Kids movies.
Kirk gives a eulogy commending the humanity of the soul of this character, who dies repairing the Enterprise’s warp drive so the ship can escape the Genesis Device. This Vulcan was played by Leonard Nimoy.
At the beginning of the movie, Lt. Saavik is taking this supposedly-impossible-to-win test, named for the civilian ship located in the Klingon Neutral Zone that cadets are tasked with rescuing. Kirk famously cheated to win this test.
Ricardo Montalbán [or Ricardo Gonzalo Pedro Montalbán y Merino]
Spock [accept that name with any of the following prefixes: “Mr.”, “Lieutenant Commander”, “Commander”, or “Captain”]
the Kobayashi Maru test
Identify the following about the FX show Archer, for 10 points each 
In the first season of the show, it's mentioned that Dr. Krieger has a sex robot named "Fister  Roboto," a reference to this delightful '70s band known for songs like "Renegade" and "Come Sail Away." 
A running joke in the show has Archer piss off Lana by referencing the song "Danger Zone," which, like "Take My Breath Away," appears in this film. This film stars Tom Cruise as the fighter pilot Maverick. 
Malory Archer frequently yells a phrase about attracting these creatures while angrily commenting on the mess in ISIS headquarters. 
Styx 
Top Gun 
ants [as in, "That's how you get ants!!"] 
This country's men's soccer team lost to Germany by a hilarious six-goal margin in the semifinals of the  2014 FIFA World Cup. For 10 points each:
Name this South American country that also hosted the 2014 World Cup.
One reason that Brazil lost so badly is that this player was out with a fractured vertebra. This striker  for FC Barcelona is otherwise known for often taking dives and having really bad hair.
This player, Brazil's main goalkeeper, made two crucial saves in the penalty shootout against Chile  before letting in those seven goals against Germany.
Federative Republic of Brazil [or RepÃºblica Federativa do Brasil]
Neymar [da Silva Santos] JÃºnior
Julio Caesar Soares de Espindola [accept either underlined part]
This novel was written at the same time as the production of its film version. For 10 points each:
Identify this science fiction novel, which opens with apes learning to use tools and clubs after a monolith appears on Earth. Later, Bowman's colleagues are all killed by a malignant computer. 
The novel 2001: A Space Odyssey was written by this British author, who helped Stanley Kubrick write the screenplay for the film. 
All of the astronauts except David Bowman are murdered thanks to the machinations of this computer, which also tries to sabotage communications with Earth. 
2001: A Space Odyssey [prompt on "2001"] 
Arthur Charles Clarke 
HAL 9000 
The chorus of one song with this title begins "I was there for you in your darkest times," while the chorus of another repeats "they don't love you like I love you." For 10 points each: 
Give this shared  name of the biggest hit singles from the albums Fever to Tell and V. 
 This pop rock band recently released a single called "Maps." Their other hits include "This Love," "One More Night," "Moves Like Jagger." 
This lead singer for Maroon 5 is a judge on the NBC show The Voice. He also had a recurring role in FX's American Horror Story: Asylum and was recently married to the Victoria Secret model, Behati Prinsloo. 
"Maps" 
Maroon 5 
Adam Levine 
Name the following cuts of beef, for 10 points each. 
This extremely tender cut is taken from the small end of the tenderloin. It is usually both rather expensive and kind of small. 
This cut comes off the shoulder of the cow. Because it is nice and fatty, it is often used in ground beef and pot roast. 
This flat cut is taken off the diaphragm of the cow, as part of the "plate" cut. It, like flank steak, is rather flat, and is often used in making fajitas [fuh-HEE-tuhs]. 
filet mignon [or filet de bÂœuf; or petit filet] 
chuck steak 
skirt steak 
In this novel, the Japanese ship Tsimtsum sinks with many animals from a zoo in Pondicherry. For 10 points each: 
Name this novel about a boy who drifts on a lifeboat across the Pacific Ocean to Mexico. This winner of the 2002 Booker Prize was written by Yann Martel. 
Pi Patel shares the boat with this Bengal tiger. The name was inspired by a sailor with the same full name who is cannibalized in Edgar Allen Poe's The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym. 
Yann Martel is an author from this country, where the adult Pi Patel lives. 
Life of Pi 
Richard Parker [prompt on partial name] 
Canada 
In this show's first episode, the protagonist offends the Master Chef Red and is served a bloody tampon. For 10 points each: 
Name this series based on Piper Kerman's memoirs. In this series, Taylor Schilling plays Piper and Natasha Lyonne plays Red's assistant Nicky Nichols.  
Orange is the New Black is an original series that is available exclusively on this service. This company's other original series include House of Cards, and its competitors include Hulu. 
This animated Netflix original series premiered in August 2014. It stars Will Arnett as the voice of the title equine character, a washed up actor who starred in the '90s sitcom Horsin' Around. 
Orange Is the New Black 
Netflix, Inc. 
BoJack Horseman 
Name some things you might encounter playing Mario Kart, for 10 points each. 
This very lightweight driver has extremely good acceleration to compensate. This mushroom- headed character originally appeared as Princess Peach's steward. 
These throwable items come in green and red varieties and are used to knock opponents off course.  Many players have been foiled by the incredibly aggravating blue one of them, which targets the driver  in first place. 
This is the last level in the single-player mode of every Mario Kart game. It's very easy to fall off the  track in this level, since there are few or no rails and the entire track appears to be in outer space. 
Toad 
Koopa shells
Rainbow Road 
The cover artwork on this band's debut album Hybrid Theory features a winged soldier, and the most  successful single from that album was "In the End". For 10 points each:
Name this American rock band fronted by Chester Bennington, who have also written the theme  song for every live-action Transformers film.
This other vocalist of Linkin Park is the band's rapper. He also founded the rap group Fort Minor.
The music video for this Linkin Park song from the album Meteora follows the daily life of an artistic  but socially ostracized student. The lyrics of this song include "all I want to do is be more like me and be  less like you".
Linkin Park 
Mike Shinoda [Michael Kenji Shinoda]
"Numb" 
Answer the following about a show created by David Milch, one of several to be tragically cut short, for  10 points each. 
Wild Bill Hickok, Wyatt Earp, and Calamity Jane all make appearances in this revisionist Western  television programme set in the titular territory of the Black Hills.
The third season of Deadwood deals heavily with the mining interests of this man's father. This  media mogul owned the New York Journal-American, had a daughter named Patty, and inspired the film  Citizen Kane. 
This actor portrays the saloon owner Al Swearengen on Deadwood. He also played the title  character on the BBC drama series Lovejoy. 
Deadwood
William Randolph Hearst
Ian McShane
Omar's coming, Omar's coming! Name some things about The Wire, for 10 points each. 
In the first scene of Season Four of The Wire, Snoop buys one of these items for $800. The distinctive items it leaves behind at Snoop's body dump sites later become important clues. 
This Maryland city is the setting of The Wire. It is also the setting of many John Waters films, including Hairspray. 
In season one, the Major Crimes Unit is set up to investigate this drug-dealing organization, which is taken over by Stringer Bell after its Wood Harris-portrayed namesake is imprisoned. 
a nail gun 
Baltimore, Maryland 
the Barksdale Organization [accept Avon Barksdale] 
This movie ends with a montage of possible sequels, including "Generations" and a videogame. For 10 points each: 
Name this movie, itself a sequel, directed by Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. One of the leads in this movie is congratulated by his boss Captain Dickson on having sex, only for Dickson to find out that that lead actually had sex with his daughter. 
Lord and Miller also directed a movie based on this Danish brand of blocks with which you can build things. In a videogame based on this brand, you play the pizza delivery boy Pepper, who must stop the Brickster. 
In The Lego Movie, Emmett comes up with this incredibly stupid design "so everybody can watch TV together and be buddies!" Of course, this construction ends up saving the lives of all of the main characters. 
22 Jump Street 
Lego [or The Lego Movie; accept word forms like "Legos"] 
a double-decker couch [accept any reasonable description of two stacked couches; prompt on just "couch"] 
Rock songs often have great organ parts. For 10 points each: 
This song, which begins with a distinctive organ solo by Ray Manzarek, was the biggest hit for The Doors. 
This Beatles song prominently features organist Billy Preston. The first verse of this song is about a man named Jojo who "thought he was a loner" and "left his home in Tucson, Arizona for some California grass." 
This band included massive organ riffs in the song "Intervention" on their 2007 album Neon Bible. In 2014, this Canadian band released the album Reflektor, produced by former LCD Soundsystem frontman James Murphy. 
"Light My Fire" 
"Get Back" 
Arcade Fire 
One character in this film is called Jimmy Two-Times due to his repeating himself. 
Name this film which stars Ray Liotta as Henry Hill and Joe Pesci as Tommy DeVito, who is murdered after being tricked into thinking he's a made man.
Goodfellas was directed by this man, who also directed Hugo, Raging Bull, and The Departed.
This other Scorsese film starred Robert De Niro as Travis Bickle, who gives himself a Mohawk and repeats into a mirror, "you talkin' to me?"
Goodfellas
Martin (Charles) Scorsese
Taxi Driver
Big Sean is featured on this artist's song "Best Mistake" from her 2014 album My Everything. 
Name this American singer who "got a bad boy, I must admit it" in her 2013 hit song "The Way."
Ariana Grande collaborated with this Australian rapper on her song "Problem." She "can't stand no haters" and "can't shop at no department" in her number one hit "Fancy."       
Azalea's song "Black Widow" from her album The New Classic features this Kosovo-born British singer who wants to "party and bullshit" in her 2012 song "How We Do (Party)."
Ariana Grande-Butera
Iggy Azalea [or Amethyst Amelia Kelly]
Rita SahatÃ§iu Ora
"On Wednesdays we wear pink" is one of the rules of this clique at North Shore High School. 
Name this clique led by Regina George, whose other rules include not wearing sweatpants and only wearing your hair in a ponytail once a week.
North Shore High School is the setting of this film starring Lindsay Lohan, which was written by Tina Fey. Its title is an apt description of the behavior of the Plastics.
The principal of North Shore was played by this co-star of Fey's on Saturday Night Live, who also portrays Black Republican P.K. Winsome on The Colbert Report.
The Plastics
Mean Girls
Tim Meadows
One of this band's founders, Brian Jones, was dismissed from the band in 1969 and died shortly after. 
Name this British rock band, which takes its name from a song by Muddy Waters. Mick Jagger leads this band, whose songs include "Sympathy for the Devil."
This band from Boston, led by Steven Tyler, hit it big with their 1975 album Toys in the Attic. That album features the song "Walk This Way," which was later covered by Run-D.M.C.
This British-American band's 1977 debut album featured "Feels Like the First Time" and "Cold As Ice." Their only U.S. #1 hit was the 1984 song "I Want to Know What Love Is."
Rolling Stones
Aerosmith
Foreigner
Answer the following about Super Bowl 38, 
This New England Patriots quarterback was named Super Bowl MVP. He had three touchdown passes during the game: one each to Deion Branch, David Givens, and Mike Vrabel.
The Patriots won the Super Bowl by defeating this team, which was led by quarterback Jake Delhomme and coached by John Fox at the time.
Super Bowl 38's "wardrobe malfunction" occurred during a performance of this Justin Timberlake song, which features the line "I'm gonna have you naked by the end of this song."
Tom Brady
Carolina Panthers [accept either underlined part]
"Rock Your Body"
This work of art inspired a 2006 Henry Singer documentary. For 10 points each:
Name this photograph taken during the 9/11 attacks by Richard Drew, which may depict restaurant employee Jonathan Briley’s desperate attempt to escape the World Trade Center. Due to complaints about its disturbing nature, the New York Times only used it once.
Another photograph taken on 9/11, this one by Thomas Franklin, shows New York City firefighters performing this action at Ground Zero. A Joe Rosenthal photograph shows soldiers doing this after the Battle of Iwo Jima.
Another disturbing photograph was a 1993 Pulitzer winning image taken by Kevin Carter while in Sudan, showing one of these animals watching a sickly child. Carter committed suicide three months after winning the Pulitzer.
The Falling Man
raising the American flag [accept obvious equivalents like “erecting a flag”]
a hooded vulture [prompt on bird]
This organization’s president, Vivian Schiller, resigned after referring to the Tea Party as “gun-toting” racists. For 10 points each:
Name this media organization, a non-profit broadcasting corporation which airs such programs as All Things Considered and repeats of Car Talk.
This popular news game show on NPR features a panel of three people playing various humorous games related to news stories. Listeners can win an answering machine message from scorekeeper Carl Kasell.
In 2010, NPR terminated the contract of this journalist after he admitted he was nervous about flying with people dressed in “Muslim garb.” This man frequently appears on FOX News and was the author of the book Eyes on the Prize.
NPR [or National Public Radio]
Wait Wait…Don’t Tell Me!
Juan Williams
Helga Brandt and the Ronald Rich-portrayed bodyguard Hans both fall into a pool of piranhas in this film, whose protagonist works with Tiger Tanaka and stages a marriage with Kissy Suzuki. For 10 points each:
Identify this 1967 film whose title is spoken when Donald Pleasence, playing Ernst Stavro Blofeld, comments on James Bond’s having earlier faked his death in Hong Kong.
In You Only Live Twice and the four films preceding it, Bond was played by this Scottish actor, whose other roles include the defecting Soviet captain Ramius in The Hunt for Red October and Indiana Jones’s father.
Charles Gray, who plays Bond’s contact Henderson in You Only Live Twice, appeared as Blofeld in this campy Bond film, which features the gay assassins Wint and Kidd, a moon buggy chase, and a plot to build a huge laser.
You Only Live Twice
Sean Connery [or Thomas Sean Connery; please respond to incompetent faux-Connery accents with disdain]
Diamonds Are Forever
Answer the following about very hard videogame scenarios for 10 points each.
Urban Dictionary cites the “Water Temple” level from Ocarina of Time as “the equivalent to a complete rectal examination.” Ocarina of Time was, of course, an entry in this popular Nintendo series starring Link.
Many people on the Internet complain about the “electric lock” puzzle from the Pokemon series run by this gym leader, in which the player must randomly flip switches in trash cans to open the lock. This character runs the Vermilion Gym and as his name indicates, likes electric-type Pokemon.
This Super Nintendo RPG featured the inscrutable hint to “walk the seasons from spring to winter and back to spring again.” The hero tries to re-energize the title sword by visiting eight temples and is opposed by the sorcerer Thanatos.
The Legend of Zelda
Lieutenant Surge [or Matis; accept “The Lightning American!”]
Secret of Mana [or Seiken Densetsu 2, or Legend of the Sacred Sword 2]
Answer the following about classical music used as television theme songs. For 10 points each:
This western hero used the William Tell Overture as his theme. A recent flop film saw Johnny Depp play this hero’s sidekick, Tonto.
This film director hosted a television anthology program which used the distinctive Gounod theme “Funeral March of a Marionette.”
This sitcom used a Schubert piano sonata as its theme song. Set in a Nantucket airport, it took place in the same universe as Cheers, and Tony Shalhoub got his first major role as the cab driver Antonio on this show.
The Lone Ranger [or John Reid]
Alfred Joseph Hitchcock
Wings
This character poses as a high school student while staying with her Aunt Eloise in Florida. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who began an endless series of point and click PC games produced by Her Interactive, with the 1998 edition Secrets Can Kill. She has also appeared in such games as Ghost of Thornton Hall, Curse of Blackmoor Manor, and The White Wolf of Icicle Creek.
Earlier Nancy Drew appearances saw her played by Pamela Sue Martin on a 1970’s series pairing her with these male siblings who also solve crimes. Their adventures were also produced by the same syndicate that published Nancy Drew’s adventures.
This lawyer is Nancy’s father and is generally a supporter of her sleuthing antics. For some reason, he was played by Tate Donovan in the 2007 film.
Nancy Drew [accept either part]
The Hardy Boyz [or Frank and Joe Hardy; accept Frank and Joe, must have both; I guess accept Francis and Joseph if you’re Aunt Gertrude]
Carson Drew
This character once employed such minions as Trogg, Zombie, and Bird. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who in the comics gets super strength from being exposed to the drug Venom. He was the main antagonist in the Knightfall storyline, and in a film appearance, serves Talia as a member of the League of Shadows.
In “Knightfall,” Bane broke the back of this hero, who fights villains like the Joker.
Another Batman villain is Scarface, a cigar-chomping gangster who is incapable of pronouncing the letter “B.” Scarface has this notable character trait, which is why he is always accompanied by Arnold Wesker.
Bane
Batman [or Bruce Wayne, either part]
he’s a ventriloquist’s dummy [or a puppet, etc.; prompt on things like “he can’t talk on his own”; but DON’T accept “mute”]
He broke into American media as the masked chauffeur Kato in <em>The Green Hornet</em>, which led to his roles in 1971’s <em>The Big Boss</em> and 1972’s <em>Fist of Fury</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this pioneering martial artist who died before he could finish his final film, Game of Death, in which he fights Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.
Game of Death’s filming was interrupted so that Lee could star alongside John Saxon in this 1973 film, the first Chinese martial arts film to be produced by a major Hollywood studio. It ends with an iconic fight in a hall of mirrors.
Though he initially studied Wing Chun under Yip Man, Lee eventually developed his own martial-art-slash-philosophy, which he gave this name. It roughly translates as “the way of the intercepting fist”.
Bruce Lee [or Lee Jun-Fan; or Li Yuanxin; or Li Yuanjian; or Li Xiaolong]
Enter the Dragon [or Long Zheng Hu Dou]
Jun Fan Jeet Kune Do [or JKD]
It’s time for the most beloved MUT tradition of all. If you can identify these geographical entities from Pokemon clues, you get 10 points each; if you need more academic clues, you get 5.
In Pokemon X and Y, the Lumiose City Gym, where the player fights Clemont and his electric Pokemon, is based on this real-world landmark.
This real-world Japanese city served as the basis for Gold and Silver’s Ecruteak City, which is home to two temples: the silver-colored Tin Tower and a gold-colored Brass Tower, the latter of which burned down.
According to logs found in the mansion on Cinnabar Island in the first-generation games, Mew was originally discovered in the jungles of this South American country.
the Eiffel Tower [or la Tour Eiffel]
Kyoto
Guyana [or the Cooperative Republic of Guyana]
Identify the following Canadian musical artists, none of which are mononymic female electro-pop singers beloved by Cody Voight, for 10 points each.
NOFX released a song about “Creeping Out” one member of this Calgary-based indie rock duo, consisting of the two Quin sisters. “Alligator” and “Hell” are singles from their 2009 album Sainthood.
Tegan and Sara apparently once toured the Netherlands with this band, who hit it big in 2002 with “Bandages” off the album Make Up the Breakdown. Their major label debut, Elevator, featured “Goodnight Goodnight” and “You Owe Me an IOU”.
Hot Hot Heat’s 2011 single “21@12” is not to be confused with the Ayn Rand-inspired album 2112 by this Geddy Lee-fronted prog rock band. Their album Moving Pictures contains “YYZ” and “Tom Sawyer”.
Tegan and Sara
Hot Hot Heat
Rush
Identify the following about the Air Coryell offense, for 10 points each.
Don Coryell developed his namesake pass-happy offense while serving as this team’s coach from 1978 to 1986. Current players for this team include tight end Antonio Gates and quarterback Philip Rivers.
The quarterback in the Air Coryell system was this Oregon graduate. After his playing career, he became a constantly-incredulous color commentator, and can now be found teaming with Ian (EYE-an) Eagle for CBS.
One of Fouts’s primary targets was this Hall of Fame tight end. His son of the same name, also a tight end, referred to himself as a “fucking soldier” while in college at Miami and got into a motorcycle accident in 2005 while with the Browns.
the San Diego Chargers [accept either underlined portion]
Dan Fouts [or Daniel Francis Fouts]
Kellen Boswell Winslow [Sr. or II/Jr.]
A character in this film is described to be “the kindest, bravest, warmest most wonderful human being I’ve ever known in my life.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1962 movie in which veteran Raymond Shaw is revealed to have been brainwashed by the Chinese into becoming an assassin, with his own mother as his Communist handler.
In the film, Shaw’s brainwashing is triggered when he sees this playing card, which the villains prompt Shaw into seeing by encouraging him to play solitaire.
In the film, Shaw is a veteran of this war, which is also the subject of such movies as Pork Chop Hill and The Bridges at Toko-Ri, as well as Robert Altman’s film M*A*S*H.
The Manchurian Candidate
queen of diamonds [prompt on partial answer]
the Korean War
Hey buckaroos, answer the following about the old west, for 10 points each.
This leader of the Northfield, Minnesota raid is described by Wikipedia as an “outlaw, gang leader, bank robber, train robber, and murderer.” This Missourian teamed with his brother Frank to form a gang and was eventually killed by Robert Ford.
This tubercular dentist joined a trio of brothers in an infamous gunfight in which his “law and order” side took on the Clanton and McLaury brothers in Tombstone.
The gambler and lawman Wild Bill Hickok was killed in Deadwood while holding this combination of playing cards, infamously known as the dead man’s hand.
Jesse James [or the “Road Dogg Jesse James”]
John Henry “Doc” Holliday
black aces and eights
Answer the following about ESPN’s Brent Musburger for 10 points each.
Brent and Kirk Herbstreit conducted a memorably insane September 2013 interview with this rapper, who said Brent was on his “fantasy announcers” team. Brent refrained from calling this man “Slim Shady.”
Brent’s signature catch phrase features these four words with which he welcomes viewers to sports broadcasts. This four word phrase is usually followed by the name of the stadium or arena the game is taking place in.
Brent famously ogled Katherine Webb, the girlfriend of an Alabama quarterback, but he previously also lusted after Jenn Sterger while Sterger was a student at this university. In 1993, players for this school received more than $6,000 worth of shoes from agents, leading Steve Spurrier to give it a memorable nickname.
Eminem [or Marshall Bruce Mathers III]
“You are looking live...”
Florida State University [or FSU, or Seminoles, prompt on “Free Shoes University”]
This action resulted in the deaths of Cato Neimoidia, Stass Allie, and Aayla Secura. For 10 points each:
Name this order issued by the Galactic Republic ordering the killing of all the Jedi. Obi-Wan Kenobi was fired on under the orders of Commander Cody while on Utapau because of this order, but survived.
Order 66 was ordered by this Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, who was secretly a Sith Lord. He mentored both Count Dooku and Darth Vader.
Palpatine was a native of this planet, which was ruled by Queen Amidala and is populated by both humans and Gungans like Jar Jar Binks and Boss Nass.
Order 66
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine [Accept Darth Sidious.]
Naboo
Guillermo Del Toro wrote and directed this film, whose tagline is "Go Big or Go Extinct." For 10 points each:
Name this summer 2013 blockbuster film in which giant human-controlled robots, known as Jaegers, are designed to defeat the monstrous Kaijus.
The leader of the Jaeger pilots, Stacker Pentecost, is played by this British actor who stars in the upcoming biopic Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom. He also played "Stringer" Bell on The Wire and Heimdall in Thor.
This actor plays the Kaiju organ-dealer Hannibal Chau. He also starred as the title character in Del Toro's Hellboy series.
Pacific Rim
Idris Elba
Ron Perlman
At the 1980 RNC, politicians wore buttons proclaiming that a Democrat had done this. For 10 points each:
Name this event which occurred in the episode "A House Divided." In November 1980, it was finally revealed that Kristin Shepard did it.
The mystery of J.R.'s attempted assassin played out on this soap opera about an oil tycoon. Bobby Ewing's death in Season 9 of this show was explained by the fact that the entire season took place in a dream.
The "Who Done It" episode, which explained who shot J.R., is surpassed only by the finale of this TV show in overall ratings. It was based on a 1970 film set during the Korean War.
shooting J.R. Ewing [or "Who Shot J.R.?"]
Dallas
M*A*S*H [or Mobile Army Surgical Hospital]
This is a popular real-time-strategy game published by Blizzard. For 10 points each:
Name this sequel game extremely popular in South Korea, in which players pick one of three races with which to do battle and whose latest expansion was Heart of the Swarm.
This race in StarCraft 2 features units such as queens and ultralisks and is known for its ability to macro well and generally overwhelm opposing players with waves of units.
The Protoss hero Zeratul is one of these units, also known as the Nerazim. One of their abilities allows two of them to merge into an Archon that is colored red, unlike the normal blue.
StarCraft 2 [do not accept or prompt on "Starcraft"]
Zerg
Dark Templars [do not accept or prompt on "High Templar"; prompt on "Templar"]
Despite its title, this film was mostly based on the Ryunosuke Akutagawa short story "In a Grove." For 10 points each:
Name this film in which a samurai, his wife, and a bandit all tell different versions of the samurai's murder.
Rashomon is a film by this Japanese director, who depicted a man's response to a cancer diagnosis in Ikiru and created a film in which defenseless villagers employ the title group, Seven Samurai.
This 1985 Kurosawa film is partially based on King Lear. In it, a warlord abdicates his throne in favor of his three sons with bloody results.
Rashomon
Akira Kurosawa
Ran
During their performance at Woodstock '69, this band's guitarist whacked Abbie Hoffman with his guitar when Hoffman ran onto the stage. For 10 points each:
Name this English rock band led by Roger Daltrey and guitarist Pete Townshend. They released hits like "My Generation" and "I Can See for Miles," as well as the rock opera Tommy.
The Who also included bassist John Entwistle and this drummer, famous for his self-destructive behavior. He overdosed on sedative pills that had been prescribed to him to help him fight his alcohol addiction.
This singer performed "Pinball Wizard" for the film version of Tommy. His song "Candle in the Wind" was dedicated to Marilyn Monroe and appears on his album Goodbye Yellow Brick Road.
The Who
Keith Moon
Sir Elton (Hercules) John [accept Reginald Kenneth Dwight]
George Brett nearly accomplished this feat in 1980, and Tony Gwynn came the closest to accomplishing this in 1994, though the season was cut short due to a strike. For 10 points each:
Name this single-season batting accomplishment in baseball that was last achieved by Ted Williams in 1941.
Tony Gwynn was probably the greatest batter in the history of this NL West team, whose ace pitcher Jake Peavy won the Cy Young Award in 2007 before being traded to the White Sox two seasons later.
Peavy also achieved the pitching version of this feat in 2007 by getting the most wins, having the lowest ERA, and striking out the most batters in the NL. The batting version involves average, home runs, and RBIs.
having a batting average of at least .400 [accept reasonable equivalents]
San Diego Padres
Triple Crown
In one scene from this film, a traveling entertainment group's performance is interrupted by the arrival of flagellants. For 10 points each:
Name this film that begins with a figure in black lifting up his cape and announcing "I am death." The knight Antoninus Block, traveling home from the Crusades, plays chess with Death in this film.
The Seventh Seal was a film from this Swedish director, whose also directed Through a Glass Darkly in which the schizophrenic Karin believes that God will appear in her attic.
Bergman's film All These Women was the first film in which he used this cinematic technique, which is absent in The Seventh Seal. Bergman's From the Life of the Marionettes only uses this technique at its beginning and end.
The Seventh Seal [or Det sjunde inseglet]
Ernst Ingmar Bergman
color film [accept obvious equivalents]
This song supposedly tells the story of Johnny Rotten, lead singer of the Sex Pistols. For 10 points each:
Name this song that is performed in "Out of the Blue" and "Into the Black versions." In it the singer states "It's better to burn out than to fade away".
"Hey Hey, My My" is a song by this man and his garage-rock band, Crazy Horse. Other songs by this man include "After the Gold Rush," and "Heart of Gold," and he was also in a super-group with Crosby, Stills, and Nash.
The lyrics "it's better to burn out than to fade away" were quoted in the 1994 suicide note of this man, who was the guitarist and singer for Nirvana.
"Hey Hey, My My" [or "My, My, Hey Hey"]
Neil Young
Kurt Cobain
Suspects in this crime have included a "Queer Woman Surgeon," Woody Guthrie, and Orson Welles. For 10 points each:
Name this brutal unsolved murder, named after a popular film noir, in which a woman's corpse was cut at the waist and given a Glasgow smile. The LAPD's investigation into this crime was impeded by press coverage.
Another notorious Los Angeles crime was the alleged murder of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman by this former NFL star. He was defended by Johnnie Cochran and later wrote the book If I Did It about the murder.
In 1943, the Sleepy Lagoon murders let to this series of Los Angeles riots. They started over an American soldier's anger with the Latino community's wearing of a certain clothing during wartime.
Black Dahlia murder [or the murder of Elizabeth Short]
Orenthal James  "O. J." Simpson
Zoot Suit Riots
This song states that "sometimes all of our thoughts are misgiven."
Name this eight-minute-two-second song about a "lady who's sure all that glitters is gold."
"Stairway to Heaven" was released on this rock band's fourth eponymous album.
The cover of Led Zeppelin IV shows a man carrying a bundle of these objects, four of which title a song on the album's B side.
"Stairway to Heaven"
Led Zeppelin
sticks [accept "Four Sticks"]
Mushroom Mix-Up was one of the stages in the first entry in this video game series.
Name this video game series in which players move around a board by rolling a dice and purchasing stars with coins earned primarily through success in mini-games.
The first game to feature the Rumble Pak was in this series, whose characters include Slippy Toad and Peppy Hare.
A Star Fox game appeared for this console, which also featured the original Mario Party game and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time.
Mario Party
Star Fox
Nintendo 64 [accept N64]
This golfer set the scoring record at the 1997 Masters en route to becoming that tournament's youngest champion.
Name this 14-time major champion.
This brash New Zealander shared many awkward high-fives with Tiger Woods as his caddy from 1999 until he was fired in 2011.
Steve Williams now caddies for this Aussie, who won his first major championship at the 2013 Masters tournament after a runner-up at the 2012 Open Championship.
[Eldrick Tont] Tiger Woods
Steve Williams
Adam [Derek] Scott
[missing]
 Name this show in which 4 chefs compete against each other to create an appetizer, entree and dessert for a panel of judges.
 Chopped appears on this cable network which also broadcasts shows such as Everyday Italian with Giada De Laurentiis and Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives, which showcases the worst thing it has brought upon the world, Guy Fieri.
 Scott Conant, a judge on Chopped, has a notorious distaste for this food item, which is often sauteed or served raw on hamburgers.
 Chopped
 Food Network
 red onions [prompt on "onion"]
[missing]
 Name this member of the Gawker media network, which claims to offer sports news without "Access, Flavor or Discretion." Longtime editor AJ Durelio left this site in 2012 to take the head editing position at Gawker.
 Durelio made headlines when he obtained cell phone pictures showing this former Green Bay, New York, and Minnesota quarterback's limp, grey privates.
 Probably the most famous of Deadspin's contributors is this man, who also writes for Kissing Suzy Kolber. During the NFL season, this writer's "Dick Joke Jambaroo" joins the "Funbag" as his weekly contribution.
 Deadspin.com
 Brett Favre
 Drew Magary [accept Big Daddy Drew]
[missing]
 Name this film, in which Thompson tries to figure out the meaning behind the title character's last word.
 Citizen Kane is the most well-known film by this director. This man gave the infamous War of the Worlds radio broadcast on his show Mercury Theatre on the Air.
 This Welles film is about Mexican officer Mike Vargas, who assists Hank Quinlan and his crew in searching for clues to convict the Grandi family.
 Citizen Kane
 Orson Welles
 Touch of Evil
[missing]
 Name this game, known to Europeans as Lylat Wars, which introduced the Rumble Pak.
 A member of the original Star Fox team, this oft-quoted character says things like: "Do a barrel roll!" and "Too quietâ€¦be careful, it's a trap!"
 Born on Corneria and exiled to Venom, this mad scientist is the final boss of Star Fox 64.
 Star Fox 64
 Peppy Hare
 Andross
[missing]
 Name this band from England, the darling of sorority girls and frat bros alike, that made the album Sigh No More.
 Mumford and Sons just released this album that includes the tracks "I Will Wait" and "Ghosts That We Knew".
 Mumford and Sons played "Maggie's Farm" at the 2010 Grammys with Bob Dylan and this other band, whose new album The Carpenter includes the song "The Once and Future Carpenter".
 Mumford and Sons
 Babel
 The Avett Brothers
[missing]
 Name this eclectic British musician who adopted the alter-ego of The Thin White Duke on Station to Station and whose hits include "Life on Mars?" and "Rebel Rebel."
 One of Bowie's most acclaimed albums is this 1977 release. On the title track, he sings "We can be" the title people, "Just for one day."
 "Heroes," along with Bowie's other albums Low and Lodger, comprise a Krautrock-influenced trilogy named for this European city where they were partially recorded. An 80s pop band with this name topped the charts with "Take My Breath Away."
 David Bowie [accept David Robert Jones]
 "Heroes"
 Berlin
[missing]
 Name this singer, a red-headed Brit who originally appended Robot to her name and toured with one other person known as Isa Machine. Together, they've released two albums, Lungs and Ceremonials.
 Florence and the Machine had their first hit with this garage-rock inspired single, but the lyrics drew criticism from some who interpreted them as defending domestic violence.
 Calvin Harris is primarily known for clubs hits, but made another foray into pop music with this song, for which he recruited Rihanna to perform the annoying and repetitive vocals.
 Florence Welch [accept either underlined part]
 "Kiss with a Fist"
 "We Found Love"
[missing]
 He is rescued by the actress who appears in the one film he manages to save. Later in this film, she persuades him not to commit suicide and to co-star in a musical with her.
 Also concerning the transition from silent films to talkies, this musical film premiered in 1952. It concerns the efforts of Don Lockwood to make good movies despite the limitations of his shallow leading lady, Lina Lamont.
 This director of The Artist won the Academy Award for Best Director in 2012 for the film. Earlier in his career, he directed two spy movies, OSS 117: Cairo, Nest of Spies and OSS 117: Lost in Rio.
 The Artist [or L'Artiste]
 Singin' in the Rain
 Michael Hazanavicius
[missing]
 Name this winner of the 2012 Hart Trophy who played in Russia for Metallurg Magnitogorsk.
 Evgeni Malkin plays his home games in the Mellon Arena, because he plays for this Eastern Conference team that also features the perpetually concussed Sidney Crosby.
 The Pittsburgh Penguins in 2012 continued their rivalry with this team that blew up its 2011 team by trading Jeff Carter and Mike Richards and signed Ilya Bryzgalov to end its longstanding goalie issues.
 Evgeni Malkin
 Pittsburgh Penguins [accept either underlined part]
 Philadelphia Flyers [accept either underlined part]
[missing]
 Name this Israeli-American actress who starred alongside Meryl Streep in a 2001 Broadway version of Chekhov's The Seagull.
 Portman starred alongside Zach Braff in this 2004 film whose soundtrack contained tracks from Iron &amp; Wine, Coldplay, and Simon &amp; Garfunkel.
 Portman won several awards for her role in this film, which takes place in a dystopian London and features Hugo Weaving wearing a Guy Fawkes mask.
 Natalie Portman
 Garden State
 V For Vendetta
[missing]
 Created by Matt Groening, this sci-fi comedy tells the story of Philip J. Fry, a dim-witted pizza delivery boy who accidentally becomes cryogenically frozen and thaws out in the year 3000.
 In one battle,  this highly-decorated general from Futurama once sent "wave after wave of [his] own men" until the enemy robots' pre-set kill limit was reached and they froze in place. He is infatuated with Leela and is served by Kif Kroker.
 By the 31st century, baseball has evolved into this sport in which the ball is kept on the field via elastic string. One famous player was Tiny Iota, who according to Hank Aaron XXIV was "great".
 Futurama
 Zapp Brannigan [accept either part]
 blernsball
[missing]
 Inspired by Ernest Hemingway, this band released the single "For Whom the Bell Tolls" on their album Ride the Lightning. This Napster-hating band also had hits with "One" and "Enter Sandman."
 This Russian-born singer-songwriter alluded to such authors as Ezra Pound in "Pound of Flesh" and Boris Pasternak in "Apres Moi." This singer also had hits with "Fidelity" and "The Call."
 Possessing an English degree, John Darnielle fronts and oftentimes comprises 100% of this band, who reference Tolstoy in their song "Family Happiness" and Dostoevsky in "Love Love Love."
 Metallica
 Regina Spektor
 The Mountain Goats
[missing]
 Name this alternative band whose debut album My Head is An Animal contains the single "Little Talks," which peaked at number 1 on the Billboard's Alternative Song in mid-2012.
 Of Monsters and Men hails from this European country, which is also the home to the band Sigur Ros and a female artist whose recent records include Biophilia and Volta.
 That aforementioned artist is this woman, whose singles include "All is Full of Love," "It's Oh So Quiet," and "Army of Me." She also won Best Actress at Cannes for her role in the film Dancer in the Dark.
 Of Monsters and Men
 Iceland
 Bjork
[missing]
 In a viral video, you can see a bearded man in a bikini lip-synch this song to unsuspecting Chatroulette visitors. It has lyrics like "Before you came into my life I missed you so bad."
 Averaging millions of views per day since its release in 2012, this K-Pop song by PSY has quickly become the most watched YouTube video of all time.
 This artist behind "Bangarang," "Cineman,"  and "Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites" won a Grammy Award in 2012 for his video of "First of the Year (Equinox)."
 "Call Me Maybe"
 Gangnam Style
 Skrillex [Sonny John Moore]
In a 1954 film, this number of ronin are tasked with protecting crops. For 10 points each:
Name this number, also the number of the seal in a 1957 Ingmar Bergman film.
The Seven Samurai was directed by this prolific Japanese filmmaker who also directed Rashomon.
In Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal, the protagonist competes against Death in this board game, which is also played by the protagonist of the 1993 film Searching for Bobby Fischer.
seven [accept Seven Samurai ; or The Seventh Seal ; or Shichinin no Samurai; or Det sjunde inseglet]
Akira Kurosawa [or Kurosawa Akira]
chess
This song's title provides the name of the male protagonist of Across the Universe. For 10 points each:
Name this song dedicated to the son of John Lennon, whose title character is told "don't make it bad" and to "take a sad song and make it better."
"Hey Jude" is a song by this group, whose hits include "I Want to Hold Your Hand" and "Yesterday."
"You Never Give Me Your Money" is the first of the nine songs, including "Mean Mr. Mustard" and "Carry That Weight," which makes up the sixteen-minute medley that closes this Beatles album.
"Hey Jude"
The Beatles
Abbey Road
Name the following about Comedy Central's fine programming,
This author of America (the Book) includes a "moment of zen" at the end of every episode of the satirical news program that he hosts, The Daily Show. 
This character from South Park kills Scott Tenorman's parents and makes them into chili, freezes himself to obtain a Nintendo Wii but ends up in the atheist future, and invents "Ass Burgers," among other antics. 
 This Comedy Central show follows Blake, Anders, and Adam, three slackers who work at TelAmeriCorp. In this show's first episode, the protagonists try to bribe kids for urine samples in order to pass a drug test. 
Jon Stewart [or Jonathan Leibowitz] 
Eric Cartman [accept either] 
Workaholics
 Name these college basketball stars from the 2011-12 season, 
This center, the first Kentucky player to be named National Player of the Year, was picked first by the New Orleans Hornets in the 2012 NBA draft. 
 The Hornets spent their other first-rounder on this Duke guard whose father Doc coaches the Boston Celtics. 
The Celtics drafted this power forward who led Ohio State to the 2012 Final Four. 
Anthony Davis [Jr.]
Austin [James] Rivers
Jared Sullinger [or Sully] 
The two main characters in this movie bond over Good Housekeeping and John Stamos.
Name this movie in which Dale and Brennan build bunk beds, do karate in the garage, get into a fight with a bunch of children, and have arguments over a drum set. 
This SNL star of Elf and Anchorman plays Brennan opposite John C. Reilly's Dale in Step Brothers. 
Dale and Brennan crash a yacht while making a music video for this song that includes the lyrics "we're almost out of gas, call the Arabs!" and "I'll do you on the bottom while you drink a Sangria." 
Step Brothers
Will Ferrell [or John William Ferrell] 
"Boats n' Hoes" 
Answer the following about the boring end to the college football season, for 10 points each.
The BCS championship game was won by this Nick Saban-coached SEC team, which completely shut down Les Miles' LSU Tigers.
 If you watched the championship game, you would have heard announcer Brent Musberger endlessly repeating this nickname of LSU player Tyrann Mathieu, which references an Internet meme involving a "crazy nastyass" animal.
This former LSU quarterback led the team to a title in the 2007-2008 season. This man recently worked as Aaron Rodgers' backup in Green Bay and torched the Lions in the final game of last season..
University of Alabama Crimson Tide [accept Alabama, accept Crimson Tide]
"Honey badger"
Matthew Clayton Flynn
This character's original origin story said that she was an amnesiac flight attendant. For 10 points each:
Name this criminal, a thief and vigilante whose real name is Selina Kyle. She has been played on film by Michelle Pfeiffer and Halle Berry and is set to be played by Anne Hathaway in an upcoming movie.
Catwoman is a villainess associated with this DC superhero, who has been most recently played on film by Christian Bale in such films as The Dark Knight.
 In a 2008 story, this Batman villain surgically removes Catwoman's heart. This bad guy's secret identity is Dr. Thomas Elliott, a childhood friend of Bruce Wayne, who bears an insanely jealous grudge against his old chum.
Catwoman [accept The Cat]
Batman [accept Bruce Wayne, either partÂ—I'm not going to list every Batman alias here]
Hush
In one song, this singer exclaims that he "came to dance, dance, dance, dance" 'cause that's his "plans, plans, plans, plans." For 10 points each:
Name this artist who's gonna "rock this club," "go all night," and "light it up like it's dynamite."
This other Taio Cruz song tells of how "there's no point trying to hide it" and admits a "problem with misbehavin'."
Taio Cruz partnered with this man for his "Take Me Back." This man also sang in "Never Leave You" and "Number 1."
Jacob Taio Cruz
Break Your Heart"
Tinchy Strider [or Kwasi Danquah; or Star in the Hood]
."Shit, they say the best things in life are free" are lyrics from one song on this album. For 10 points each:
Along with "Good Life," other tracks on this album include "Homecoming" and "Flashing Lights."
Besides recording Graduation, this artist is famous for interrupting Taylor Swift's VMA speech and remarking that "George Bush doesn't care about black people."
Kanye produced this artist's album Finding Forever. This artist wrote the controversial track "A Song for Assata" as well as the lines "Burn a Bush 'cause for peace he no push no button" in the poem "Letter to the Law," sparking outrage from conservatives when Michelle Obama invited him to a poetry reading at the White House.
Graduation
Kanye West 
Common [or Common Sense; or Lonnie Rashid Lynn, Jr.]
When it came time to attend college, Columbia was ultimately chosen over Berkeley by Meadow in this TV show. For 10 points each:
Name this TV show created by David Chase that explores the complicated, violent world of the Mafia.
The Sopranos is set in this U.S. state, also home to Snooki, Pauly D, and Mike "The Situation."
In an effort to control his panic attacks, Tony Soprano sees this psychiatrist throughout all six seasons.
The Sopranos 
New Jersey
Jennifer Melfi
Sacheen Littlefeather accepted this man's Academy Award in 1973. For 10 points each:
Name this actor who played Don Corleone in The Godfather.
Brando also portrayed Paul, the main character of this 1972 Bernardo Bertolucci film about a recent widower who has an affair with a French woman named Jeanne.
Brando portrayed the title character of Viva Zapata!, a 1952 film directed by this man who named several communists in Hollywood in a 1952 testimony to HUAC.
Marlon Brando, Jr.
Last Tango in Paris [or Ultimo Tango a Parigi]
Elia Kazan [or Elia Kazanjoglous]
Identify the following forms of football, for 10 points each.
This most popular sport in the world is known simply as "football" or "association football" in most places. The American professional league for this sport is the MLS.
This kind of football, whose ball resembles a rugby ball, is played on an ovular pitch with four goalposts on each end. High-flying catches in this game are called "marks."
Australian rules football is combined with this other kind of football to create the "international rules" sport. The ball for this sport looks like a volleyball, and players must "solo" or bounce the ball every four steps to advance.
soccer
Australian rules football
Gaelic football
The debut of the number one overall pick in the 2009 NBA Draft gave this team high hopes. However, he sat out his first season with a knee injury. For 10 points each:
Name this team whose highlights from last season warranted "Blake Griffin Alerts" on SportsCenter.
The Clippers acquired Mo Williams and Jamario Moon from the Cleveland Cavaliers in exchange for Baron Davis and their 2011 first round draft pick, with which they selected this point guard first overall.
This team added Derrick Williams to their frontcourt with the second overall pick in the 2011 NBA Draft to play along with the league's leading rebounder Kevin Love.
Los Angeles Clippers [prompt on Los Angeles]
Kyrie Andrew Irving
Minnesota Timberwolves [or Minnesota Timberwolves; or T-Wolves]
Name some things about men with magnificent facial hair, for 10 points each.
This Texas band is best known for songs like "Sharp-Dressed Man," "La Grange," "Gimme All Your Lovin," and "Legs."
Though both guitarist Billy Gibbons and bassist Dusty Hill sport magnificent chest-length beards, this ironically-named drummer wears only a mustache.
This ZZ Top song, off the Tres Hombres album, notes that the title character is "bound for New Orleans" after departing the title locale, and that "you might not see him in person, but he'll see you just the same."
ZZ Top
Frank Beard
Jesus Just Left Chicago
This character first appeared in Marvel Comics #1, for 10 points each:
Name this character created by Bill Everett who in his first appearance attacked some divers before it is revealed that he is the son of an Atlantean named Fen and a human named Leonard McKenzie. He then declared war against humans.
Timely Comics, the precursor to Marvel, often pitted Namor against the original Human Torch, who took on this character as his sidekick. He was the son of a man who had contracted asbestos poisoning, making this character impervious to flame and heat.
Namor, the Human Torch, and Captain America were all created during the 1930s and 40s, which was given this name due to the immense popularity of comic books during that time. DC also created Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, and the Green Lantern during this period.
Namor the Sub-Mariner [or Sub-Mariner]
Toro [or Thomas Raymond]
The Golden Age of Comics
One song by this band has a yodeling echo of "yodelayeoo" in response to the titular declaration, and another declares of the titular food, "I didn't eat it, but it ate you." For 10 points each:
Name this band whose songs include "I Need More Allowance" and "Killer Tofu."
The Beets are a fictional band on this 90's cartoon that was produced by Nickelodeon and then Disney. Its title protagonist writes in his journal, has a dog named Porkchop, and has the alter ego Quailman.
This girl is Doug's crush throughout the series. At the end of the show, she asks Doug on a date.
The Beets 
Doug 
Patti Mayonnaise 
One song by this band has a yodeling echo of "yodelayeoo" in response to the titular declaration, and another declares of the titular food, "I didn't eat it, but it ate you." For 10 points each:
Name this band whose songs include "I Need More Allowance" and "Killer Tofu."
The Beets are a fictional band on this 90's cartoon that was produced by Nickelodeon and then Disney. Its title protagonist writes in his journal, has a dog named Porkchop, and has the alter ego Quailman.
This girl is Doug's crush throughout the series. At the end of the show, she asks Doug on a date.
The Beets 
Doug 
Patti Mayonnaise 
The host of this show has downed ridiculous meals such as a meter long bratwurst, a two-gallon ice cream sundae, and a six-pound frittata. For 10 points each:f
Name this show that features host Adam Richman touring the nation to discover the greatest chowdown joints and take on the most legendary food challenges.
Man v. Food is a show on this channel that also features Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern, Bert the Conqueror, and Sand Masters.
Also on the Travel Channel is this show that follows the host as he samples food and culture around the world and who should probably call beforehand.
Man v. Food [or Man v. Food Nation; or MVF]
Travel Channel
Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations
[missing]
Created by Klaus Teuber in Germany, this game has players collect resources like brick and sheep to build roads and cities. Its expansions include Cities and Knights, Seafarers, and Traders and Barbarians.
Created in 1954, this zero-luck strategy game is set in World War I Europe. Each player must use the titular skill to form alliances and maneuver armies and fleets into supply centers.
Set in Mesopotamia, players of this game use two action points per turn to develop their kingdoms, create internal or external conflicts, and build monuments that spawn victory points.
The Settlers of Catan [or Die Siedler von Catan]
Diplomacy
[missing]
In 2006, this company acquired ATI and more recently it transformed its fabrication side into GlobalFoundries. For 10 points each:
In 2006, this company acquired ATI and more recently it transformed its fabrication side into GlobalFoundries. For 10 points each:
This Brazilian aircraft maker and defense contractor's makes the Phenom 100 executive jet. Its E-jet line is intended for commercial aviation.
This T.V. Network aired the show Phenom in the 93-94 season. Current shows include Cougar Town and Grey's Anatomy.
AMD [or Advanced Micro Devices]
Embraer S.A.
ABC [or American Broadcasting Company]
The title characters of this film use surveillance equipment in a coffee shop to create the film Swallow My Cockuccino after their plans to shoot Star Whores fall through.
Name this Kevin Smith directed film in which Seth Rogen realizes he was in love with his roommate all along.
Miri is played by this actress, whose other comedy roles include Kim on Scrubs, Beth in The 40-Year-Old Virgin and Lindsey in Wet Hot American Summer.
Elizabeth Banks played this teacher and librarian in a 2008 film directed by Oliver Stone. This character meets her future husband at a barbecue.
Zack and Miri Make A Porno
Elizabeth Banks
Laura Bush 
The availability of the MediaWiki server has led to a proliferation of user-editable online references. Identify the following such things, none of which are Wikipedia, Conservapedia, or the QBWiki, for 10 points each.
November 2nd's featured article on this frighteningly in-depth "Star Wars encyclopedia that anyone can edit" concerned Hamo Blastwell, a friend of Keyan Farlander, the protagonist of X-Wing.
 After Wikipedia cofounder Larry Sanger got fed up and left that project, he founded this other site, which features expert specialists as editors who are responsible for approving articles.
On September 11th, 2008, its featured article was "JEWS DID WTC" and regular features include "The Moar You Know" and "Picture Of The Now." It includes a 2700 word "Comprehensive Theory of Lulz."
Wookiepedia [accept starwars.wikia.com]
Citizendium [accept citizendium.org or "The Citizens' Compendium"; prompt on CZ]
EncyclopÃ¦dia Dramatica [accept encyclopediadramatica.com; prompt on ED]
Identify the following about cheating in sports, 
This referee recently pled guilty to federal charges related to the fixing of NBA games, for which he was sentenced to 15 months in prison in July 2008.
Collusion among sumo wrestlers was compared to cheating on standardized tests by teachers in the first chapter of this 2005 book, written by Steven Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner.
This Canadian sprinter beat Carl Lewis to win gold in the 100 meters at the 1988 Seoul Olympics, but was stripped of his medal and world record after testing positive for stanozolol.
Timothy Donaghy
Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything
Ben Johnson
Working titles for this movie include Anhedonia, It Had to Be Jew, Me and My Goy, and Rollercoaster Named Desire. 
Identify this 1977 Best Picture Oscar winner, a romantic comedy which chronicles the relationship between the comedian Alvy Singer and the title character, played by Diane Keaton.
In addition to starring as Alvy, this man won the Best Director Oscar for Annie Hall. This man also directed What's Up, Tiger Lily? and had relationships with Mia Farrow and his adopted stepdaughter Soon-Yi Previn. Gross.
Woody Allen also voiced Z, the main character of this 1998 Dreamworks CGI movie. In it, Z and the Sharon Stone-voiced Princess Bala search for Insectopia, and this movie is definitely not to be confused with A Bug's Life.
Annie Hall 
Woody Allen [accept Allen Stewart Konigsberg]
Antz 
On his album Strategic Grill Locations, he noted that he was against picketing, but didn't know how to show it. 
Identify this stand-up comedian who died of a drug overdose in 2005. Other famous lines of his include "An escalator can never break; it can only become stairs."
Mitch Hedberg voiced such characters as "Dr. Fizzel" in his appearances on this Adult Swim show about the filmmaking aspirations of eight-year-old Brendon Small.
Home Movies' creator Brendon Small also created this show about the fictional band Dethklok, for which he voices such characters as Nathan Explosion and Skwisgaar Skwigelf. 
Mitchell Lee Hedberg
Home Movies
Metalocalypse
Name stuff about the author of the poetry collection Blinking with Fists, Billy Corgan, 
Corgan formed this band with James Iha, D'arcy Wretzky, and Jimmy Chamberlin, releasing such albums as Melon Collie and the Infinite Sadness, which contained the songs "1979" and "Bullet with Butterfly Wings".
Corgan tells "hipsters" to "unite" and asks "Who wants that honey?" in this Smashing Pumpkins song, the second single off of Siamese Dream.
"Honestly" and "Lyric" were the two singles from Mary Star of the Sea, the only album released by this Corgan-fronted alternative super-group.
The Smashing Pumpkins
"Cherub Rock"
The True Poets of Zwan [accept Djali Zwan]
Name some things about those low-carb treats, sandwich wraps
You can garnish your wrap from this drive-in restaurant with crispy bacon, cheese, or hot chili. This restaurant relies on the sardonic humor two car-bound diners in ads for its "Sausage Biscuit Dippers" and "Brown Bag Special," and is noted for its specialty drink items.
This delicious Taco Bell product features the usual Bell fixin's piled between two flat, round, hard taco shells, then wrapped in a soft tortilla shell and placed on a grill press, creating a disk-shaped delectable that's "good to go."
This current manager of Japan's Chiba Lotte Marines and former Mets skipper claims to have invented the sandwich wrap at his namesake restaurant and sports bar.
Sonic Drive-In [or Sonic Corporation]
Crunchwrap Supreme [prompt on Crunchwrap]
Robert John "Bobby" Valentine
