After this character is asked by a dying former teacher to shoot him, this character responds by saying “do it yourself” and tossing a gun onto the ground. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is freed from working in a meth lab for Jack Walker’s gang by a character driving a car mounted with a machine gun. This character drives away near the end of that series finale, “Felina.”
Jesse Pinkman is a character on this AMC show, which follows the lung cancer-stricken Walter White’s transformation into the meth kingpin “Heisenberg.”
Jesse’s fate after the finale of Breaking Bad was addressed in this spin-off movie. This movie starts immediately after “Felina” with Jesse behind the wheel of its title car and ends by mirroring that scene with Jesse safe in Alaska.
Jesse Pinkman [or Jesse]
Breaking Bad
El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie &lt;Pop Culture — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. Gray]
Board games! For 10 points each:
The Sicilian Defense is a common strategy in this game, which ends when one of the two players’ kings is checkmated.
Players who roll a seven in this board game can move the robber to steal a resource. Players can build roads using lumber and brick in this game set on an island, with a bonus of two victory points for the longest road.
“Province rushing” is a common strategy in this deck-building game, which has 25 kinds of “Kingdom” card. Players in this game initially purchase cards with the seven copper and three estates they are dealt.
chess
The Settlers of Catan [or Settlers; accept Catan: Seafarers or Catan: Cities and Knights or Catan: Traders and Barbarians or Catan: Explorers and Pirates or Catan: Oil Springs or Catan: Frenemies of Catan]
Dominion &lt;Pop Culture — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This film ends with a character screaming “I drink your milkshake” while beating Eli Sunday to death with a bowling pin. For 10 points each:
Name this 2007 film by Paul Thomas Anderson about a ruthless oil magnate.
There Will be Blood stars this actor, who also collaborated with P.T. Anderson on Phantom Thread. This man won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his 2012 portrayal of Abraham Lincoln.
Daniel Day-Lewis practices Konstantin Stanislavski’s technique of method acting, which was pioneered in Hollywood by this actor. This actor played Stanley Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire and Vito Corleone in The Godfather.
There Will be Blood
Daniel Day-Lewis
Marlon Brando &lt;Film — Schwartz/Malouf&gt; [Ed. French]
In 2004, this player testified that he did not know that substances given to him by trainer Greg Anderson were performance-enhancing drugs. For 10 points each:
Name this baseball player who is the all-time MLB leader in home runs, just above Hank Aaron. This player has not been selected for the Hall of Fame due to his involvement in a steroid scandal about the company BALCO.
Bonds played most of his career with this team. Pitchers Madison Baumgarner and Tim Lincecum helped this team win the World Series in the even years 2010, 2012, and 2014.
Bonds described this former manager of the Giants giving him batting practice the morning he hit his record- breaking 756th home run. This man was also the manager of the team during that run of World Series wins.
Barry Bonds
San Francisco Giants [or San Francisco]
Bruce Bochy (BO-chee) &lt;Pop Culture — Venkateswaran&gt; [Edited]
In this film, a fake bloody tissue is used to trick a woman into thinking her housekeeper has tuberculosis. For 10 points each:
Name this 2019 South Korean film directed by Bong Joon-ho about the poor Kim family’s infiltration of the rich Park family.
Parasite is the first South Korean film to win the Palme d’Or (“palm DOOR”), the highest prize awarded by this French film festival.
Bong’s post-apocalyptic film Snowpiercer is set on one of these vehicles with different compartments for the rich and poor. Bong’s countryman Yeon Sang-ho is best known for a film titled [one of these vehicles] to Busan.
Parasite
Cannes Film Festival [or Festival de Cannes]
train &lt;Film — Ma&gt; [Edited]
As a metaphor for feeling pressured to pump out hits, this singer wrote the lyrics “You can’t start a fire without a spark / This gun’s for hire / Even if we’re just dancing in the dark.” For 10 points each:
Name this singer of “Dancing in the Dark,” which ironically became one of seven top-10 singles on his album Born in the U.S.A. This singer from New Jersey is nicknamed “The Boss.”
This singer cited Springsteen’s “sex Americana” as an influence for her album Born to Die. This singer “got my red dress on tonight / dancing in the dark / in the pale moonlight” in that album’s single Summertime Sadness.
The lyric “Give me reasons why we should be complete / You should be with him, I can’t compete” is on this other singer’s Slow Dancing in the Dark. This singer is signed with the 88rising label.
Bruce Springsteen [or Bruce Frederick Joseph Springsteen]
Lana Del Rey [or Elizabeth Woolridge Grant]
Joji [or George Miller; prompt on Filthy Frank or Pink Guy] &lt;Pop Culture — Gray&gt; [Edited]
People with this profession “kick [their] knees up” and “flap like a birdie” in the song “Step in Time.” For 10 points each:
Name this profession. Dick van Dyke’s character sings that this profession is “as lucky can be” in a song that won the 1964 Academy Award for Best Original Song.
Bert the chimney-sweep sings the song “Chim Chim Cher-ee” in this Disney musical about a magical nanny who sings “A Spoonful of Sugar” and “Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious” while looking after the Banks children.
The music for Mary Poppins was by this pair of brothers. This duo’s other work for Disney includes the music for Bedknobs and Broomsticks and the song “It’s a Small World (After All).”
chimney-sweep
Mary Poppins
the Sherman Brothers [accept Richard Morton Sherman and Robert Bernard Sherman] &lt;Musicals — French&gt; [Edited]
In this film, Dmitri finds a lewd Egon Schiele (AY-gon SHEE-leh) painting hanging in the place of the stolen Johannes van Hotyl the Younger painting <em>Boy with Apple</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this film which follows the adventures of concierge Gustave H. and bellboy Zero Moustafa around the title establishment.
The Grand Budapest Hotel was directed by this auteur-director. His other films include Moonrise Kingdom and The Royal Tenenbaums.
Anderson’s most recent film, Isle of Dogs, was created using this technique. This type of animation involves incrementally moving objects between individually photographed frames.
The Grand Budapest Hotel
Wes Anderson
stop motion animation &lt;Film — Ma&gt; [Edited]
“The Ecstasy of Gold” plays during this film’s iconic Mexican standoff. For 10 points each:
Name this Sergio Leone film about the fight for stolen Confederate gold between Blondie, Angel Eyes, and Tuco.
This Italian film composer wrote the score to The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. He included a “Love Theme” and “Toto and Alfredo” in his score for the film Cinema Paradiso.
Morricone’s collaborations with Sergio Leone were mostly on films of this genre like The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. Clint Eastwood often starred in Leone’s “spaghetti” films of this genre.
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
Ennio Morricone
Westerns [accept spaghetti Westerns]  &lt;Film — Ma&gt; [Edited]
This national team lost in the finals of the 2014 men’s FIBA Basketball World Cup by 39 points as well as in the 2016 Olympics by 30 points. For ten points each:
Name this country, whose national team was defeated by the US in both tournaments. This country’s current team includes players like the former tallest player in the NBA, the Sixers’ Boban Marjanović (mar-YAHN-o-vich).
Mason, a player from this family, scored one point in that 2014 final, his last international appearance, and now backs up Serbian center Nikola Jokić (NEE-co-la YO-kich). Brothers Mason, Miles, and Marshall from this family played together in high school and at Duke.
This unsuccessful franchise founded in 1967 has never made the NBA Finals, but are recently enjoying a resurgence, partly due to Jokić and despite Plumlee. This team’s name is an allusion to the Colorado Gold Rush.
Serbia
Plumlee [accept Mason Plumlee or Miles Plumlee or Marshall Plumlee]
Denver Nuggets [or Denver] &lt;Pop Culture — Gray&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about album covers:
The album cover of Lady Gaga’s album Artpop was designed by this visual artist, who is referenced in the album’s song “Applause.” This artist has also made many stainless steel sculptures of balloon animals.
This artist designed an iconic banana cover for the debut album of The Velvet Underground, which he briefly managed. This proponent of Pop Art also made paintings of Campbell’s Soup cans.
This Beatles album has bare, monochromatic cover art, unlike its predecessor, Sergeant Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band. Charles Manson believed that The Beatles wrote secret messages into songs in this album to incite a race war.
Jeff Koons
Andy Warhol [or Andy Warhola]
the White Album [prompt on The Beatles] &lt;Other Visual Art — Gray&gt; [Edited]
A character in this movie cites Jeremiah 11:11 in flashback, and is later seen by the central family both being lifted into an ambulance and standing on a Santa Cruz beach with a bloody hand. For 10 points each:
Name this film in which underground tunnels full of rabbits are home to the Tethered, doppelgangers of every American. In this movie, the Tethered arise to the surface, kill their counterparts, and unite hands across America.
Us was the second movie by this director. This director’s debut was a 2017 movie in which Dean Armitage tries to surgically implant a mind into Chris Washington’s body, Get Out.
Jordan Peele was previously best known for a show with this comedian. The duo were in sketches about Obama’s “anger translator” and one in which this comedian, playing a substitute teacher, mispronounces “Aaron.”
Us
Jordan Haworth Peele
Keegan-Michael Key &lt;Pop Culture — Gray&gt; [Edited]
The artist behind this album released the song “The Archer” as a promotional single a month before the album’s release. For 10 points each:
Name this album released in August of 2019, which includes hits such as “Paper Rings” and “You Need to Calm Down.”
This artist released the album Lover as a light contrast to some of the darker tones and subjects of her 2017 album Reputation, which featured songs such as “Delicate” and “Look What You Made Me Do.”
Lover’s version of its featured track, “ME!,” notably removed this line from the original song. In the original, this line is followed by Swift and Brendon Urie singing “Girl, there ain’t no ‘I’ in ‘team’.”
Lover
Taylor Swift [or Taylor Allison Swift; accept Tay-Tay]
“Hey kids! Spelling is fun!” &lt;EA, Trash&gt;
Answer the following about notable altercations between NBA players and fans, for 10 points each.
Probably the most famous fight between NBA players and fans is this 2004 brawl, in which Ron Artest entered the stands at a Michigan arena. Nine players were suspended as a result of this brawl with a rhyming nickname.
During the 2019 NBA Finals, Kyle Lowry was shoved by Mark Stevens, a part-owner of this team whose player roster includes Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson. Stevens was fined $500,000 for his actions.
Also in 2019, the Utah Jazz permanently banned one fan from their arena after he antagonized this player, a point guard for the Oklahoma City Thunder. This man was named 2017 NBA MVP after averaging a triple-double.
The Malice at the Palace [or Pacers-Pistons brawl with belligerents in either order; accept any reasonable synonym for “brawl,” prompt on “Artest melee” or any answer combining Ron Artest’s name with a fight]
Golden State Warriors [accept either underlined portion, prompt on “GSW”]
Russell Westbrook [or Russell Westbrook III] &lt;TB, Trash/CE&gt;
The opening of a film set during this conflict juxtaposes a ceiling fan with helicopters flying over a jungle as “The End” by the Doors plays in the background. For 10 points each:
Name this war, during which Captain Willard is tasked with killing the insane Colonel Kurtz in the film Apocalypse Now. This war is also the setting of Stanley Kubrick’s Full Metal Jacket and the movie Platoon.
This Italian-American director of The Godfather used an adaptation of Heart of Darkness for his film Apocalypse Now.
After arriving at Kurtz’s Outpost, Willard meets an unnamed character played by Dennis Hopper, who has this profession. That character with this profession mirrors the Russian Harlequin from Heart of Darkness.
Vietnam War
Francis Ford Coppola
photojournalist [or photographer] &lt;WG, Other Visual Fine Arts&gt;
The U. S. Women’s National Team started this event with a 13-0 win over Thailand behind Alex Morgan’s five goals. For 10 points each:
Name this 2019 event, which ended with the U.S. defeating the Netherlands 2-0 in the championship match in Lyon, France.
This outspoken U.S. winger won both the Golden Boot and Golden Ball in the World Cup. This woman’s partner, Sue Bird, wrote an article called “So The President Hates My Girlfriend” before the Cup semifinals.
Rapinoe, along with 25 other USWNT players, is currently suing U.S. Soccer over this specific gender-based discrimination. After the World Cup final, spectators at the Stade de Lyon chanted in support of this issue.
2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup
Megan Rapinoe [rah-pee-noh] [or Megan Anna Rapinoe]
equal pay [or anything related to a gender-based pay gap or pay disparity; accept synonyms such as wages in place of “pay”; accept descriptive answers about the women’s team being paid less than the men’s] &lt;TB, Current Events&gt;
Name some video games that feature mountain climbing. For 10 points each:
The main character climbs Mt. Silver to face Red at the end of Gold and Silver, two entries in this video game series about catching creatures like Pikachu.
In this rage-inducing game, a man in a flowerpot uses nothing except a sledgehammer to climb to the top of a mountain.
In this game, Madeline uses her dark other half to help her collect berries and scale the title mountain. This game includes fan remixes of its songs on the difficult “B-sides” of its levels.
Pokémon
Getting Over It with Bennett Foddy
Celeste &lt;EA, Trash&gt;
One character in this franchise has become the subject of numerous memes, due to such quips as “I don’t like sand. It’s coarse and rough and irritating and it gets everywhere.” For 10 points each:
Name this franchise, whose movies like The Phantom Menace and Revenge of the Sith are the subject of “prequel memes.”
In Revenge of the Sith, Chancellor Palpatine tells Anakin about this figure, whose story became a popular copypasta on Reddit. Ironically, this figure “could save others from death, but not himself.”
The climax of the prequel films occurs on this volcanic planet, where Anakin and Obi Wan duel after Order 66 is executed. During that climax on this planet, Obi Wan says the eternal lines “It’s over Anakin! I have the high ground!”
Star Wars [or Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace; or Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith]
Darth Plagueis the Wise [accept: “Did you ever hear the tragedy of Darth Plagueis the wise?”]
Mustafar &lt;EA, Trash&gt;
In a 2017 DC Comics reimagining of the franchise containing this character, her Project Elysium accidentally infested the world with nanites, transforming the post-apocalyptic human race into monsters. For 10 points each:
Name this character, the bespectacled resident genius of Mystery Incorporated, who often exclaims “Jinkies!” to express her surprise at having found a clue.
Velma solves mysteries along with this canine. In the Mystery Incorporated series of the franchise named for this Great Dane, Shaggy dumped Velma so that he could spend more time with this dog.
Scooby-Doo was created by this production company for “gentler storylines” in 1969 after complaints about violence in children’s cartoons in the wake of Robert Kennedy’s assassination. This “General Motors of animation” also produced The Smurfs and The Flintstones.
Velma Dinkley
Scooby-Doo
Hanna–Barbera Productions [accept H–B Production Company, H-B Enterprises, or Hanna-Barbera Cartoons] &lt;DD, Trash&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about actor Toshiro Mifune’s role in movies by filmmaker Akira Kurosawa:
One of Mifune’s most famous roles was as the central ronin of this Kurosawa film, where his character enters a town and is bribed by two rival bosses to fight for them.
Mifune played Kikuchiyo in another Kurosawa film, titled for seven of these warriors. These Japanese swordsmen were hired by feudal lords to protect their land.
During one of the bandit raids in Seven Samurai, Kikuchiyo steals one of these weapons from the bandits for the sake of glory. The Magnificent Seven, a retelling of The Seven Samurai, focuses on men who use these weapons.
Yojimbo
samurai [accept Seven Samurai]
guns [or muskets, or rifles, or pistols] &lt;DB, Other Fine Arts&gt;
This team had only one non-vacated game in the 2010 season, a loss to Wisconsin, after some players were suspended for illegally giving their autographs for tattoos in a scandal known as “Tattoogate.” For 10 points each:
Name this highest-valued college football team in the country. While being coached by people like Woody Hayes and Jim Tressel, this team has garnered 37 Big Ten championship titles, the second most behind Michigan.
This coach for the Buckeyes from 2012 to 2018 led the team to a National Championship in 2014 and a 54-4 Big Ten record under his purview. This coach was replaced as head coach by Ryan Day in 2019 due to health concerns.
In August of 2019, Ohio State tried trademarking this word to put on apparel. The application was rejected on the basis that the font was too big, rather than the fact that this word is the most commonly used in the English language.
Ohio State Buckeyes [accept either; do NOT accept or prompt on “Ohio”]
Urban Meyer
“the” [accept “The Ohio State University”] &lt;EA, Trash&gt;
The main characters of this film are attacked by a tank equipped with a flamethrower, which is called the “Dragon” of the swamp and incinerates the Jamaican boatman Quarrel. For 10 points each:
Name this film, whose title character tries to disrupt a space shuttle launch by using a concentrated radio beam before being thrown in a nuclear reactor pool by the protagonist, who runs off with the damsel Honey Ryder.
Dr. No is the first film in a series about this secret agent, who was originally created in a series of novels by Ian Fleming.
In Dr. No, James Bond was played by this British actor, who also played the role in other early Bond films such as Goldfinger and You Only Live Twice.
Dr. No
James Bond [accept 007 [double-o-seven]]
Sean Connery [or Sir Thomas Sean Connery] &lt;EA, Trash&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions relating to Super Bowl XLII [[42]], one of the biggest upsets in sports history.
The heavy favorites were this team. This team was led by quarterback Tom Brady and had just become the second team to complete an undefeated regular season.
This noted hoodie-wearer coached the Patriots to the undefeated season, but failed to defeat the New York Giants in the game. He is regarded as one of the foremost defensive minds in NFL history.
In his final season, this Giants defensive end helped defeat the Patriots. This man set the record for most sacks in a season with 22.5 in 2001.
New England Patriots [accept either underlined portion]
Bill Belichick
Michael Strahan &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, AK&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
In a song from a musical set in this city, a character sings that “the rhythm of town starts calling me down” and proclaims that “every day is an open door.” For 10 points each:
Name this American city, the setting of the musical Hairspray. In the opening song, titled “Good Morning, [this city], Tracy sings that “the world’s gonna wake up and see [this city] and me.”
This TV series, set in Baltimore, depicts the lives of the urban poor of the city. In season 1, this series depicted the struggle between the Baltimore Police Department and the Barksdale drug trafficking empire.
Owner Art Modell relocated this NFL team to Baltimore in 1995, where it became the Ravens. The current incarnation of this team, which also plays in the AFC North, went 0-16 in the 2017-18 season.
Baltimore
The Wire
Cleveland Browns [prompt on Cleveland] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about the much-maligned Star Wars prequels:
In a scene in Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith, Chancellor Palpatine tells Anakin about the legend of this man. Ironically, he could save others from dying, but not himself.
Obi-Wan Kenobi slices off Anakin’s arm and both of his legs in a duel towards the end of Revenge of the Sith, presumably because he had this advantage.
Anakin proclaims that he doesn’t like sand because it’s “coarse and rough and irritating and it gets everywhere” in this movie, which sees Count Dooku lead the Confederation of Independent Systems against the Republic.
Darth Plagueis the Wise
the high ground [accept reasonable equivalents]
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones [prompt on Star Wars Episode II] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, CT&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
Answer the following about a certain American singer-songwriter, for 10 points each:
This single’s music video was the most-watched YouTube video of all time before being dethroned by “Despacito.” Its lyrics include, “It’s been a long day without you, my friend.”
Collaborating with Wiz Khalifa, “See You Again” was this singer’s debut single. His other hits include “We Don’t Talk Anymore” with Selena Gomez and “Attention.”
Puth created this second studio album of his entirely by himself. Its singles include “How Long” and “Done for Me,” featuring Kehlani.
“See You Again”
Charlie Puth
Voicenotes &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, CZ&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
This team’s general manager resigned after fallout from his wife’s alleged use of five secret Twitter accounts to belittle his predecessor and several of his players. For 10 points each:
Bryan Colangelo served as the general manager of this team. This team, led by all-star Joel Embiid, was eliminated by the Boston Celtics in the 2018 Eastern Conference Semifinals.
In 2016, the 76ers drafted this Australian point forward #1 overall. After being ruled out for the entire 2016-2017 NBA season due to a fracture in his foot, he put up historic numbers for a rookie.
This three word motto refers to the strategy used by former general manager Sam Hinkie that accumulated draft picks by “tanking.”
Philadelphia 76ers
Ben Simmons
“trust the process” &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, AK&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
Answer the following about advertising campaigns undertaken by McDonald’s, for 10 points each:
This McDonald’s product is available for a limited time and at certain locations. This product is a barbecue pork sandwich with onions and pickles.
One ill-fated advertising campaign offered free food if the U.S. won medals at the 1984 Olympics. When this country boycotted the games, the Americans won so many that some locations ran out of food.
Description acceptable. In 2015, McDonald’s undertook this action in all of its U.S. stores. This action required some stores to install new grills and toasters and concerned products including the McGriddle and Sausage Burrito.
McRib
Soviet Union [accept Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; do not accept or prompt on “Russia”]
offering All Day Breakfast [accept answers involving offering breakfast the entire day] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
This song opens with the piano playing fifteen C’s two octaves above middle C. For 10 points each:
Name this song whose chorus includes the lyrics “I think it's time for us to have a toast” and ends with the line “Baby I got a plan” and a suggestion to do the title action “as fast as you can.”
“Runaway” was a single from this 2010 album whose album art depicts the artist being straddled by a naked woman with wings in a gold and red border. Other songs on this album include “All of the Lights” and “Monster.”
This rapper created My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy. His other albums include The College Dropout, Graduation, and Yeezus.
“Runaway”
My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
Kanye West [accept either name] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, DY&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
Answer some questions about memes from “the most ambitious crossover in history,” for 10 points each:
This much-hyped movie spawned hundreds of thousands of internet memes, many about its unexpected ending. This 2018 Marvel Cinematic Universe film had the biggest worldwide opening weekend of all time.
One of the most popular memes from Avengers: Infinity War is this seven-word phrase, spoken by Peter Parker to a certain other character after he starts to disintegrate.
Another meme format from Avengers: Infinity War features this character, who saw 14,000,605 possible futures. This character starred in his own 2016 film, where he creates a time loop around himself and Dormammu.
Avengers: Infinity War [prompt on Avengers]
“Mr. Stark, I don’t feel so good”
Dr. Strange [accept Stephen Strange] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, SZ&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
Vin Scully, who holds the record for longest tenure as a broadcaster for the same team in American professional sports, called games for this team. For 10 points each:
Name this National League West team who moved away from Brooklyn in 1958 under owner Walter O’Malley.
Scully holds the record for the youngest broadcaster of a World Series game for calling the 1953 World Series, during which the Dodgers lost to this team, whose 27 World Series titles is the most of all-time.
The Dodgers were led during the 1953 World Series by this catcher, 1953’s Most Valuable Player. This former Negro League star also won the 1951 and 1955 MVP awards before a 1958 car accident ended his career.
Los Angeles Dodgers [prompt on Los Angeles]
New York Yankees [prompt on New York]
Roy Campanella &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, AK and CT&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
Answer the following questions about elements of Korean pop culture that have recently found success in America. For 10 points each:
In June 2018, this group’s album Love Yourself: Tear became the first KPop album to hit number one on the Billboard 200. This boy band’s name has a name that translates from Korean as “bulletproof boy scouts.”
The fictional KPop group K/DA released the song “POP/STARS” at the World Championships of this online game in South Korea. This online battle arena game was developed by Riot Games.
In 2015, a Korean movie about a zombie outbreak was titled [this object] to Busan. Another Korean-produced movie, Snowpiercer, is set on one of these objects and ends with its destruction.
BTS [accept Bangtan Sonyeondan]
League of Legends [prompt on League]
train [accept Train to Busan] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
Answer the following about the history of silent films, for 10 points each:
One of the first silent films to achieve widespread success has a title translated as A Trip to [this location]. In this film, directed by George Méliès [[“may-lee-EZ”]], a group of travelers shoot a capsule into the face of this location.
Alongside Charlie Chaplin, this man was one of the biggest stars of the silent film era. A famous scene from Steamboat Bill, Jr. starring this deadpan actor shows the front of a house falling down on him.
The silent film era began to draw to a close with the release of this film, considered the first “talkie.” In it, the main character, an aspiring entertainer, says “wait a minute, you ain’t seen nothing yet” as his first spoken line.
The Moon [accept La Lune]
Buster Keaton
The Jazz Singer &lt;Other Fine Arts, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. AB&gt;
This ancient game is derived from the Indian game, Chaturanga. For 10 points each:
Name this game played on an eight by eight board between black and white pieces. A win in this game is achieved through checkmating the opposing side’s king.
This computer program developed by Google that learned chess in 4 hours crushed the best chess engine in the world, Stockfish, in a series of 1000 matches in December 2018.
This American chess prodigy defeated Boris Spassky in the World Chess Championships of 1972, ending an era of Soviet dominance. He was the first FIDE world number one player, and wrote My 60 Memorable Games.
chess
AlphaZero
Bobby Fischer &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, MX and JC&gt;&lt;ed. KLu, AK, and AdH&gt;
The recording that led to this controversy was recorded by Jay Aubrey Jones for vocabulary.com. For 10 points each:
A 2018 internet argument concerned an auditory illusion involving listeners hearing one of two different words. Name both of those words.
When Donald Trump was asked whether he heard “yanny’ or “laurel,” he responded, “I hear [this word].” This word originated from one of Trump’s tweets, which reads: “Despite the constant negative press [this word].”
The “yanny” or “laurel” debate drew similarities to a 2015 internet debate about “the dress,” an image that was originally posted on this social media site. This platform banned all adult content from its site in December 2018.
yanny and laurel [accept in either order]
covfefe [accept any reasonable pronunciation]
Tumblr &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
At the Olympic level, this sport features artistic, rhythmic, and trampoline disciplines. For 10 points each:
Name this sport. The U.S. women’s team has won all-around gold in this sport’s artistic discipline three times at the Summer Olympics, the first of which was in Atlanta with the Magnificent Seven.
At the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, this Romanian athlete was the first to receive a perfect score of 10.00 from the judges. She did so for her performance on the uneven bars.
Comaneci’s score was incorrectly displayed, as the scoreboard manufacturer was told that a perfect score was impossible and had therefore included only three digits on the scoreboard. Instead, the audience saw this score.
artistic gymnastics
Nadia Comaneci
1.00 &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, CZ&gt;&lt;ed. KLu&gt;
<strong></strong> You’ll be on thin ice if you fail to answer these bonus parts. For 10 points each:
This figure skater blitzed the scene after transitioning from the junior ranks, winning everything for two years. She performs many of her jumps with one or two arms above the head.
Medvedeva has issues with this jump type. This jump is the only one with a forward takeoff, and requires an extra half revolution. The triple variation of this jump has only been performed by eight women skaters, though it’s commonplace in men’s skating.
This 2017 and 2018 US Men’s champion made history by landing five quads in the freeskate. He is the record holder for the highest points earned by one element, a quad lutz-triple toe combination.
Evgenia Medvedeva
axel [accept double axel or triple axel]
Nathan Chen
<strong></strong> Answer the following about musicals composed by Stephen Sondheim. For 10 points each:
This Sondheim musical follows the titular “Demon Barber of Fleet Street”, who seeks vengeance on Judge Turpin by slitting the throats of customers and baking their remains into pies.
This other Sondheim musical, which features the song “Send in the Clowns”, takes its title from the literal translation of the German title of Mozart’s Serenade No. 13.
The musical Assassins features a cast of characters who attempted to kill people with this title. Characters in the musical include John Wilkes Booth, Charles Guiteau, and Leon Czolgosz [“SHAWL”-“gosh”].
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street
A Little Night Music
President of the United States of America [accept POTUS; accept clear equivalents]
Answer the following about memes. For 10 points each:
Memes are usually referred to as “dank”, a practice that KnowYourMeme partially traces to this website’s user xEphr0m. On this website, which contains communities like r/The_Donald, people can receive “karma” through upvotes and downvotes.
The Anti-Defamation League declared a meme of one of these animals a hate symbol in 2016. Alex Jones doesn’t like ‘em putting chemicals in the water to turn these animals gay.
You can learn about “meme fear” from Susan Blackmore’s The Meme Machine, which builds on this thinker’s coinage and subsequent conception of the meme as a replicating unit of cultural information, analogous to the gene.
Reddit.com
frogs [accept Pepe]
(Clinton) Richard Dawkins
Name some indie video games, for 10 points each:
This widely-anticipated game by Hello Games featured a sandbox universe of 18 quintillion planets. Its 2016 release was met with negative reviews, due to the lack of multiplayer and other promised features.
This 2D sandbox game developed by Re-Logic features bosses such as the Eye of Cthulhu and Skeletron. This game’s graphics and gameplay received many favorable comparisons to Minecraft.
This other game set the record for the fastest game to reach one million dollars on Kickstarter. It was developed by a group of former Rare employees as a spiritual successor to Banjo-Kazooie.
No Man's Sky
Terraria
Yooka-Laylee
The delivery of a fish wrapped in a vest in this movie is used to signify the death of Luca Brasi. For 10 points each:
Name this 1972 film directed by Francis Ford Coppola about the Corleone crime family.
This actor won a second Best Actor Oscar for his portrayal of Vito Corleone in The Godfather. He won his first Oscar in his role as Terry Malloy in On the Waterfront, and other roles of his include Colonel Kurtz in Apocalypse Now.
In a famous scene from The Godfather, clips of rival family bosses being gunned down by Corleone hitmen are juxtaposed with Michael Corleone at one of these events.
The Godfather [do NOT accept “The Godfather Part II” or “The Godfather Part III”]
Marlon Brando Jr.
baptism [or christening]
The band behind this album has supported its central message, with former bassist Roger Waters vocally expressing his disapproval for Donald Trump in recent concerts. For ten points each :
Name this Pink Floyd album, which has been noted for its now ironic lyrics, including, “Mother should I run for president? Mother should I trust the government?” before asking if the speaker should build the title structure.
The protagonist of The Wall, Pink, states “there is no pain you are receding” in this song. The second of its guitar solos is said to be among the best work of David Gilmour, who sings its chorus.
Some of the origin for the sociopolitical focus of The Wall was said to come from this earlier album, which is inspired by a similarly named Orwell novel. The 17 minute long track “Dogs” is a fan favorite from this album.
The Wall
“Comfortably Numb”
Animals
<strong></strong> A Resistance leader jumps across rooftops to escape SS officers in a movie set in this “open city.” For 10 points each:
Name this city. A statue of Jesus is transported here at the start of another movie centering on a gossip journalist who wanders through it for seven days and wades in a fountain with the actress Sylvia.
Marcello and Sylvia splash each other in the Trevi Fountain in this director’s La Dolce Vita. “Director’s block” plagues Guido Anselmi in his 8 ½, which was made with his frequent actor-collaborator Marcello Mastroianni.
Fellini’s countryman Ennio Morricone is most famous for his scores to movies in this genre, such as Sergio Leone’s A Fistful of Dollars and The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly. Both of those movies belong to its low-budget Italian-directed “spaghetti” subgenre.
Rome [or Roma; accept Rome, Open City]
Federico Fellini
spaghetti Westerns
<strong></strong> The first American record in this period to sell over a million records was Sam the Sham &amp; The Pharoahs’ “Wooly Bully.” For 10 points each,
Name this period, in which a certain country began to dominate the Billboard Charts in the United States.
This band experienced a namesake “mania” following their record breaking appearance on the Ed Sullivan show, though they would stop touring the US after 1966. They released albums like Revolver and Rubber Soul.
An early hit by the Beatles from their album Please Please Me referenced this dance, which was named for a song made popular by Chubby Checker.
British Invasion [accept clear equivalents]
The Beatles [accept Beatlemania]
The Twist [accept Twist and Shout]
Answer the following questions about recent covers of <em>The New Yorker</em> magazine. For ten points each:
The October 23 edition of The New Yorker depicted Donald Trump as one of these characters. Bill Skarsgård plays one of these characters named Pennywise in the 2017 film It.
The New Yorker’s September 25 cover contained a painting of a father and daughter performing this action. Activist author Jane Jacobs asserted that this action helps prevent urban crime.
Half of this man’s head appears on The New Yorker’s September 7 cover. Two weeks later, this man referred to one international opponent as “the mentally deranged U.S. dotard.”
clown
sitting on a stoop (accept porch sitting or anything to that effect)
Kim Jong Un
Answer the following questions about NHL career record holders. For ten points each:
This Canadian player nicknamed “the Great One” holds a career record with 869 goals. This forward was controversially traded from Edmonton to Los Angeles after the 1988 Stanley Cup.
This legendary Devils goalie holds the NHL record for wins. In a 21 year career, this ten-time all-star won three Stanley Cups.
Perhaps less impressively, the all-time record for NHL penalty minutes belongs to this forward who played for Toronto, Vancouver, and Los Angeles.
Wayne Gretzky
Martin Brodeur
Tiger Williams (accept Dave Williams)
On October 14, 2017, this man was expelled from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. For ten points each:
Name this disgraced film mogul who was fired from his namesake company after scores of women accused him of sexual harassment and assault.
Weinstein’s fall sparked this online movement to expose similar predators and reveal the scope of sexual misconduct in contemporary America.
This former MSNBC political analyst and author of Game Change issued an apology after over a dozen women accused him of harassment in the aftermath of the Weinstein scandal.
Harvey Weinstein
#MeToo (with or without hashtag is acceptable)
Mark Halperin
Answer the following about TV shows starring Ted Danson. For ten points each:
Danson played bartender Sam Malone in this 1980s sitcom about a namesake bar in Boston. Other notable characters in this series include Cliff Clavin, Norm Peterson, and Diane Chambers.
In this HBO comedy featuring Jason Schwartzman and Zach Galifianakis, Danson starred as playboy magazine mogul George Christopher.
Danson currently plays Michael in this NBC show about Eleanor Shellstrop mistakenly arriving in Heaven.
Cheers
Bored to Death
The Good Place
In this film, Ugarte acquires two “letters of transit” which he passes off to the protagonist. For ten points each:
Name this superbly-quotable 1943 film set during World War Two in Morocco’s largest city.
This protagonist of Casablanca laments that "of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world,” Ilsa Lund walked into his. At the end of the film, this man arranges for Ilsa and her husband Laszlo to flee the city.
Blaine also shoots this man at the end of Casablanca. This Nazi major was pursuing Laszlo, a member of the Czech resistance.
Casablanca
Rick Blaine
Heinrich Strasser
Answer the following questions about American hip hop group NWA. For ten points each:
NWA rose to fame with this 1988 album. Its namesake track references the group’s origins in a certain city in south Los Angeles.
NWA was led by Dr. Dre, Ice Cube, and this rapper and founder of Ruthless Records. This man died in March 1995 from complications of AIDS.
This controversial manager of NWA is often cited as a reason for the group’s breakup. Paul Giamatti played this man in the 2015 film Straight Outta Compton.
Straight Outta Compton
Eazy-E (accept Eric Lynn Wright, prompt on “Eazy” or “E”)
Jerry Heller
Central Park is home to an eclectic variety of landmarks. For ten points each:
This 2.5 acre section of the park is dedicated to the memory of John Lennon and contains the “Imagine” mosaic. It takes its name from a Liverpool children’s home featured in the title of a Lennon song.
This large boulder in the southwest portion of Central Park is a popular tourist destination. This outcrop is named for the hordes of vermin that used to inhabit it at night.
Central Park contains this woman’s namesake needle, in fact a giant obelisk constructed by Pharaoh Thutmose III. The obelisk was originally housed near a temple this woman built to honor her lover Marc Antony.
Strawberry Fields
Rat Rock
Cleopatra VII
This football player played second base in Minor League Baseball after being drafted by the Colorado Rockies. For ten points each:
Name this NFL quarterback from the University of Wisconsin who became the second black quarterback to win a Super Bowl after defeating the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XLVIII.
Wilson plays for this west coast team coached by Pete Carroll. This team’s fans are known as the “12th Man” and hold the world record for loudest crowd noise at a sporting event.
The Seahawks lost Super Bowl XLIX to the New England Patriots after Wilson threw an interception to this New England cornerback with 20 seconds left in the game.
Russell Wilson
Seattle Seahawks
Malcolm Butler
In this video game’s climax, its three protagonists steal millions of dollars in gold from the Union Depository. For ten points each:
Name this 2013 open-world action game, one of the bestselling of all time. Lindsay Lohan sued the makers of this game for allegedly using her likeness in it.
Grand Theft Auto V takes place in this fictional state, a parody of the greater Los Angeles area. This state’s name comes from a prominent California tectonic feature.
The many antagonists of GTA V include this international Chinese crime syndicate, led in the game by Wei Cheng.
Grand Theft Auto V (accept “GTA 5,” prompt on “Grand Theft Auto” or “GTA”)
San Andreas
Triads
This record label’s namesake sound was partially originated by Booker T. &amp; the MGs. For ten points each:
Name this pioneering record label based in Memphis which produced many of the leading soul musicians of the 1960s.
Stax’s biggest star was this African-American singer-songwriter. This man wrote “Respect” and “Try a Little Tenderness” before achieving huge posthumous success with “Dock of the Bay.”
Many Stax hits were written in Memphis’ Lorraine Motel where this civil rights leader was assassinated in April 1968.
Stax Records
Otis Redding Jr.
Martin Luther King Jr.
In October 2017, Forbes released their list of the 400 wealthiest Americans. For ten points each:
With a net worth of $89 billion, this Microsoft founder and philanthropist was listed by Forbes as the richest man in America, though he was recently overtaken by Jeff Bezos.
The youngest person on the Forbes 400 is Evan Spiegel, the billionaire founder of this social networking app.
Six members of this mysterious family appear on the Forbes list. This family’s namesake company sells such products as Uncle Ben’s Rice, Orbit, and Snickers.
Bill Gates
Snapchat
Mars family
The lyricist of this duo mentored Stephen Sondheim. For ten points each:
Name this artistic duo from the “Golden Age of Musical Theater” who created such hits as Oklahoma, South Pacific, and the The King and I.
This second musical by Rodgers and Hammerstein premiered in 1945. This show profiled the ill-fated romance of Julie Jordan and Billy Bigelow and contained songs like “If I Loved You” and “You’ll Never Walk Alone.”
This final Rodgers and Hammerstein musical opened in 1959 and became a box office hit six years later. In this show, Maria leaves an abbey to tutor the Von Trapp children.
Rodgers and Hammerstein
Carousel
The Sound of Music
This show’s corporate Pixies were voiced by Nixon speechwriter and Montgomery Blair alumnus Ben Stein. For ten points each:
Name this Nickelodeon cartoon about Timmy Turner and his two magical companions.
In the Fairly OddParents, Timmy is tormented by this sadistic baby-sitter. Chip Skylark writes a song describing this character as icky.
In a 2008 special, Timmy’s fairy godfather Cosmo gave birth to this baby fairy. Unlike other fairies who use wands, this magical infant grants wishes with a rattle.
The Fairly OddParents
Vicky
Poof
For 10 points each—answer the following about a Disney animated series scheduled to be rebooted this year:
The show centers on these animals, one of whom owns a “money bin.” An alliteratively-named one of these animals has nephews named Huey, Dewey, and Louie.
This other Disney show is often incorrectly stated to be set in the same universe. Its title character is a duck superhero whose alter ego is Drake Mallard.
In the film Who Framed Roger Rabbit? this black duck faces off with Donald in a piano duel. Like Donald, this rival of Bugs Bunny has a speech impediment, which shows when he says his catchphrase, “You’re despicable!”
ducks [accept DuckTales; accept Scrooge McDuck; accept Donald Duck]
Darkwing Duck
Daffy Duck &lt;MK&gt;
This artist often uses joking “filler” album names like <em>Random Album Title</em> and <em>For Lack of a Better Name</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Canadian DJ whose songs include “Strobe” and “Ghosts ‘n’ Stuff.” This man always performs in a signature mask.
Deadmau5 is a big fan of this fellow masked act, even after they dissed him, saying “We thought EDM was all made by just one guy.” This French house music duo’s songs include “Giorgio by Moroder” and “One More Time.”
Daft Punk collaborated with Pharrell Williams on the track “Get Lucky” just before Pharrell released the track “Happy” on the soundtrack for this movie’s sequel. Unfortunately, this movie also spawned the prequel Minions.
deadmau5 [“dead mouse”] [or Joel Thomas Zimmerman]
Daft Punk
Despicable Me [accept Despicable Me 2 or 3] &lt;JR&gt;
This album, recorded in Nashville, is generally considered to be the first studio <em>double</em> album of rock music. For 10 points each:
Name this 1966 album that includes crazed-sounding tracks like opener “Rainy Day Women #12 &amp; 35.” Critics tend to really like its tracks “Visions of Johanna” and “I Want You.”
Blonde on Blonde was recorded by this American singer-songwriter, whose songs include “The Times They Are a-Changin’” and “Blowin’ in the Wind.” This man won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016.
Bob Dylan’s album Bringing it All Back Home showed him in the middle of this process. This change supposedly inspired an axe attack at Newport, and caused people to scream things like “Judas” during concerts.
Blonde on Blonde
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]
electrification [accept any description of going electric or plugging in] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about what <em>Vogue</em> promised me are the hot fashion trends for 2017:
This kind of fabric was the star of several Spring 2017 outfits from Ralph Lauren and Prada. This kind of fabric has an extremely short and dense pile, and its varieties include devoré and nacré.
Like last year, jumpsuits are “in” this year. Jumpsuits are definitionally this kind of outfit, which is contrasted with separated items like bikinis.
This fashion leader famously ushered in the jumpsuit fad by wearing a black one on Jimmy Fallon’s show. This woman often wears sleeveless dresses and is probably the most famous client of Jason Wu.
velvet
one piece
Michelle (LaVaughn Robinson) Obama &lt;JR&gt;
The title character of this movie sings the song “A Dream is a Wish Your Heart Makes” to a bunch of friendly birds. For 10 points each:
Name this 1950 Disney animated film, which was the subject of a live-action remake in 2015. In this film, the title character’s fairy godmother sings “Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo” while enchanting a pumpkin to become a carriage.
One of these creatures named Lucifer harasses Jaq and Gus throughout the film, but is eventually chased out of a window by Bruno.
Cinderella and Prince Charming sing this waltz when they meet. This song was replaced by the instrumental “La Valse de L’Amour” in the 2015 remake.
Cinderella
a black cat
“So This is Love” &lt;CX&gt;
This film won an Oscar for Best Editing, mostly due to producer Richard D. Zanuck. For 10 points each:
Name this 1975 film, which more or less invented the “summer blockbuster.” It was only its director’s second theatrical feature, following The Sugarland Express.
After sighting the title shark of Jaws while chucking bait into the ocean, Brody walks backwards into the cabin and says this phrase.
The iconic score of Jaws was written by this man, who also scored Star Wars, Harry Potter, Jurassic Park, E.T., and a zillion other movies.
Jaws
“You’re gonna need a bigger boat.”
John (Towner) Williams &lt;JR&gt;
This series’s tenth installment introduced the “sphere grid” levelling system. For 10 points each:
Name this most famous series published by Square Enix.
The Final Fantasy games are all this kind of game, in which you control a character that you equip and level up. World of Warcraft and Runescape are “massively multiplayer online” examples of these games.
The iconic music for the Final Fantasy series has mostly been written by this man, who has thus been called the “Beethoven of videogame music.”
Final Fantasy [prompt on FF]
RPG [or role-playing game; accept MMORPG or massively multiplayer online role-playing game]
Nobuo Uematsu &lt;JR&gt;
This photographer’s work was used as album art for John Eliot Gardiner’s Bach Cantatas pilgrimage series. For 10 points each:
Name this photographer for National Geographic, known for colorful, intense portraits like Afghan Girl.
McCurry’s portraits often have an extreme focus on the subject’s face, since he decreases this length by widening the aperture. This distance goes up with a lens’s f-number.
Recently, McCurry has more or less admitted to retouching his photos using this image editing software published by Adobe. This software’s name has become a colloquial verb for “to digitally manipulate an image.”
Steve McCurry
depth of field [or DOF]
Adobe Photoshop &lt;JR&gt;
This piece was called the “soul of chess” by Philidor. For 10 points each:
Name this piece, which can only move forward, but captures diagonally. If it reaches the end of the board, this least valuable piece can be “promoted” to a different piece.
A pawn that cannot be blocked or captured by enemy pawns is described by this term. Having this kind of pawn is advantageous because it can easily be promoted.
Black moves a pawn to c6 after White’s e4 in this chess opening, which often creates a passed d-pawn for White. Sidelines of this Semi-Open defense include the Tartakower Variation and the Hillbilly Attack.
pawn
passed pawn
Caro–Kann Defense &lt;JW&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some questions about everybody’s favorite seven-foot opera connoisseur:
This Spanish NBA center, who plays for the Spurs and whose favorite opera is Tosca, was the 2002 Rookie of the Year. He helped Kobe Bryant to titles in 2009 and 2010, and his brother Marc plays for the Memphis Grizzlies.
Until he was traded to the Spurs in 2016, Pau Gasol played for this city’s Bulls, who were led to six titles in the 1990s by Michael Jordan.
Chicago’s most important player is definitely not Dwyane Wade, but rather this 25-year-old all-star shooting guard and winner of the 2015 Most Improved Player award, who was drafted 30th overall in 2011 from Marquette.
Pau Gasol (Saéz)
Chicago
Jimmy Butler III &lt;LL&gt;
A found-footage horror anthology series named after this technology has showcased the work of emerging directors. For 10 points each:
Name this technology for recording video on tape, which was largely replaced by DVDs.
By giving viewers the ability to rewatch movies on demand, VHS helped create this kind of movie, which gains devoted fans long after its release. Classic examples of these films include The Big Lebowski and Rocky Horror.
VHS machines feature prominently in this 1983 cult horror film by David Cronenberg, which is about a brainwashing TV signal. A stomach-VCR and a cancer-gun are two of this film’s many disturbing sights.
VHS [or video home system; prompt on answers like videotape, but we need the specific technology]
cult film [or cult classic]
Videodrome &lt;IKD&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Pokémon games, none of which are <em>Pokémon Go</em>:
The seventh generation of Pokémon was introduced in two games in 2016. Name either game; for once, they’re not named for gems, minerals, or colors.
In the classic Pokémon games, you can teach your Pokémon new moves using two kinds of CD-like items; name either. These items are how your Pokémon learn useful moves like Cut, Fly, and Rock Smash.
The Pokémon franchise broke away from the same old gameplay with this 2004 Gamecube game, which uses a stadium battling style. This game was followed in 2005 by Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness.
Pokémon Sun OR Pokémon Moon
TMs OR HMs [or technical machines; or hidden machines]
Pokémon Colosseum &lt;BY&gt;
At the end of this show’s fifth season, the title character checks himself into a psychiatric hospital after hallucinating sex with his boss, Lisa Cuddy. For 10 points each:
Name this American medical drama, which starred Hugh Laurie as the head of the Diagnostics Department at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital.
One of Dr. House’s trademarks was his addiction to this drug, which he took to ease the pain in his right leg.
Also at the end of House’s fifth season, this actor’s character Lawrence Kutner suddenly committed suicide, because this man had just taken a job in the Obama administration.
House
Vicodin [or hydrocodone/paracetamol—don’t accept either of those answers by themselves]
Kal Penn [or Kalpen Suresh Modi] &lt;MK&gt;
You are Yale quizbowl outdoorsman Isaac Kirk-Davidoff. Answer some questions about your recent winter mountaineering trip, for 10 points each.
You first stop to go ice climbing at Cathedral Ledge, but your friend informs that you’re “crap” at using this piece of equipment. This footwear includes cleat-like spikes to improve traction while walking on ice.
Climbing this mountain, the highest in New England, your beard and mustache freeze together due to the minus 40-degree windchill. This mountain holds the non-hurricane wind speed record worldwide.
Mount Washington is found in this New England state, whose towns include Nashua and Portsmouth, as well as its capital of Concord.
crampons
Mount Washington
New Hampshire &lt;IKD&gt;
The protagonist of this movie rides an actual Civil War cannon and tries to use a handcar in a train chase scene. For 10 points each:
Name this 1926 comedy set during the Civil War. An actual train was used for this movie’s climax, in which that train drives onto a collapsing bridge and into a river.
The General is a film by this comedic actor, who also made Sherlock Jr. and The Cameraman. This actor’s rivals included Harry Langdon, Harold Lloyd, and of course Charlie Chaplin.
All of those actors produced this kind of film, which were replaced by “talkies.” Movie theaters hired organists or pianists to improvise music for these films, since they had no soundtrack.
The General
Buster Keaton [or Joseph Frank Keaton]
silent films &lt;JR&gt;
This soccer player threatened to retire from playing internationally after his country was defeated on penalties at the 2016 Copa America Centenario. For 10 points each:
Name this player, who is the all time top scorer for both Argentina and F.C. Barcelona.
Lionel Messi is also the top scorer in the El Clásico, a match contested between F.C. Barcelona and this club, their biggest rival.
Since 2014, Lionel Messi has formed a deadly attacking trios for Barça with these two fellow South American forwards. Name either man.
Lionel (Andrés) Messi [accept Leo Messi]
Real Madrid [“ray-AHL” Madrid] Club de Fútbol [prompt on just Madrid; do not accept or prompt on “Atlético Madrid”]
Luis (Alberto) Suárez Díaz OR Neymar (da Silva Santos) Júnior &lt;MK&gt;
In this song’s chorus, Assassin sings “I said they treat me like a slave, cah’ me black.” For 10 points each:
Name this song that repeats the phrase ‘I'm the biggest hypocrite in 2015.” It answers the question “How can I tell you that I'm making a killin’?” by saying “You made me a killer,” and describing that as an “emancipation.”
“The Blacker the Berry” is a track from this rapper’s 2015 album To Pimp a Butterfly. His debut, Good Kid, m.A.A.d City, includes the songs “Swimming Pools” and a song that asks you not to “kill his vibe.”
The third track of Kendrick Lamar’s To Pimp a Butterfly is a song named for this “King.” This man is the protagonist of the novel and TV series Roots.
“The Blacker the Berry”
Kendrick Lamar (Duckworth)
Kunta Kinte [accept either; accept “King Kunta”] &lt;JR&gt;
Bonus: When this event occurred in 2016 after an 8-7 victory against the Cleveland Indians, it ended a 108-year streak of this not occurring. For ten points each:
Name this event, which saw one team achieve victory for the first time since 1908. One movie predicts this event happening in 2015 against the fictional Miami Gators as a joke.
That aforementioned movie is the second in this series, which sees Marty McFly travel in time via a car created by Doc Brown. The third movie in this series sees Marty and Doc try to return from the Wild West in 1855.
In Back to the Future Part II, this character steals the time machine in order to give his past self a future sports almanac so he can become rich. In Part III, Marty goes back to 1855 to save Doc before this man’s great-grandfather kills him.
Chicago Cubs winning the World Series [prompt on partial, accept equivalents, accept anything more specific, like Cubs winning in 1908, 2015, or 2016]
Back to the Future [accept Back to the Future Part I, Part II, or Part III]
Biff Tannen [prompt on Tannen] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This event is the most watched annual sporting event. For ten points each:
Name this terminating match of a certain soccer tournament that is organized by UEFA.
In the 2016 Champions League Final, this Spanish team defeated Atletico Madrid 2-1. Current players on this team include Sergio Ramos, Gareth Bale, and Cristiano Ronaldo.
In the 47th minute of the 2016 Final, this French star for Atletico Madrid had an opportunity to level the score on a crucial penalty, but he hit the crossbar and missed.
UEFA Champions League Final [do NOT accept or prompt on Europa League Final or UEFA Super Cup]
Real Madrid
Antoine Griezmann &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The instrumentation for this musical work’s percussion section includes a police whistle. For ten points each:
Name this musical in which Tony and Maria fall in love, despite being in the opposing Jets and Sharks gangs. Written by Leonard Bernstein, it was based off of Romeo and Juliet.
The lyrics to West Side Story were written by this American, who also composed a musical that intertwines several fairy tales called Into the Woods.
Sondheim also composed and wrote the lyrics for this musical, which tells the story of a barber who returns to London in order to punish the corrupt Judge Turpin.
West Side Story
Stephen Sondheim
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street &lt;RP+GM&gt;
Bonus: This man played his first Olympics when he was only 15 years old. For ten points, each:
Name this man who won his 23rd gold medal at the Rio Summer Games.
This teammate of Phelps was revealed to have lied about being robbed to cover up an altercation at a gas station. He earlier appeared on a reality show whose title asked “What Would [This Man] Do?”
Chad Le Clos, who tried to intimidate Michael Phelps before the 200 meter butterfly but only placed 4th, is from this country. Earlier, Oscar Pistorius competed in track and field for this country with prosthetic legs.
Michael Phelps
Ryan Lochte
South Africa &lt;ES&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about birds. For ten points each:
This subfield of zoology is concerned with the study of birds. John James Audubon, author of The Birds of America, was an important figure in this field.
This family of birds relies on keen vision and talons to attack prey, and includes animals such as hawks, owls, and vultures.
Though not a vulture, this scavenger bird has the largest wingspan of any North American land bird and can live up to 60 years in the wild. It has been reintroduced in the western U.S. after its extinction in 1987.
ornithology
raptors
California Condor [prompt on “Condor”] &lt;NG&gt;
Bonus: His father Dell played for the Charlotte Hornets and his brother Seth currently plays for the Dallas Mavericks. For ten points each:
Name this incredible shooter and two-time NBA MVP, a point guard who wears the number 30.
Stephen Curry plays alongside all-stars Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson for this NBA team. Currently coached by Steve Kerr, this Oakland team plays its home games at Oracle Arena.
The Warriors selected Curry seventh overall in the 2009 draft from this NCAA team. Steph was named Most Outstanding Player in the Midwest Region for leading this school to the Elite 8 of the 2008 March Madness Tournament.
Wardell Stephen Curry
Golden State Warriors
Davidson College &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: A variation of rock-paper-scissors includes this character, played by using the Vulcan salute. For ten points each:
Name this half-Vulcan, half-human Star Trek character who serves as science officer on the USS Enterprise. He also delivers the first line in the first episode when he says “check the circuit!”
This actor played Spock in the original Star Trek series. He wrote two autobiographies, I am not Spock and I am Spock, and he died in February of 2015.
Leonard Nimoy also performed this song, written by Charles Randolph Grean. This song describes the adventures of the title “three feet tall” character who “battled a troll!” and “riddled with Gollum!”, the “bravest little hobbit of them all.”
Spock
Leonard Nimoy
The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This character gets a role in a movie in which his only line is “these pretzels are making me thirsty.” For ten points each:
Name this wacky neighbor of Jerry played by Michael Richards on a “Show about nothing.”
Kramer appears in this show, which shares its name with one of its creators, who also stars as the main character, Jerry. Other characters in this show include Jerry’s best friend, George Costanza.
This woman was George’s fiancee who, much to George’s delight, died after licking the glue off of cheap envelopes for their wedding.
Cosmo Kramer
Seinfeld
Susan Biddle Ross &lt;MM&gt;
Bonus: This comedian started selling hats saying “Make Donald Drumpf Again”. For ten points each:
Name this English comedian, the host of Last Week Tonight.
John Oliver previously served as a correspondent on The Daily Show Comedy, which is now hosted by this South African comedian, who replaced Jon Stewart in August 2015.
This other former correspondent on The Daily Show hosted a show in which he pretended to be a conservative pundit on Comedy Central, before he left to replace David Letterman on the Late Show.
John William Oliver
Trevor Noah
Stephen Tyrone Colbert &lt;AN&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about memes that became popular in the summer of 2016. For ten points each:
After a three-year old boy climbed into his enclosure, this Western lowland gorilla tried to protect him, but was shot dead by a zookeeper from the Cincinnati Zoo. His death spurred an era of memes.
This meme is based off of an aardvark that titles a PBS Kids show. Memes of this character show him making incestuous suggestions to his sister D.W. and clenching his fist in anger.
Arthur was not the only animated TV character who became a meme. Pacha, one of the stars of this Disney show, also appeared in many memes, often exhibiting a face of satisfaction and forming a perfect symbol with his fingers.
Harambe
Arthur
The Emperor’s New Groove &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Thanksgiving is the only day when Americans consume more food than they do on the day of this event. For ten points each:
Name this annual championship game of the NFL that determines who will hoist the Vince Lombardi Trophy.
The 2016 Super Bowl 50 saw this AFC west team defeat the Carolina Panthers. Led by Peyton Manning, this team plays their regular season home games at the Sports Authority Field in Colorado.
This linebacker from the Broncos was named the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl 50.
Super Bowl
Denver Broncos [accept either underlined portion]
Vonnie B'Vsean Miller Jr. &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: One webcomic contains a pie chart noting that this game makes up the majority of the author’s profanity, and the mouseover text states that avoiding blue shells in this game is “deep magic.” For ten points each:
Name this series of games in which various Nintendo characters race each other in the title vehicles. Players can race on various stages such as Bowser Castle and Rainbow Road.
In this other Nintendo Gamecube game, characters fight to try to drive each other off the edge of the screen and deal as much damage as possible. The second game in its series, this game contains characters such as Mewtwo and Donkey Kong.
In this Nintendo Game, the title character attempts to obtain his treasure and castle after they are taken from him from the Black Jewel. The player can spend coins in this game to buy garlic, which restores health, and other items.
Mario Kart [accept anything more specific]
Super Smash Bros Melee [prompt on Super Smash Bros, prompt on SSBM, do not accept Super Smash Bros Brawl, or any other Super Smash Bros game]
Wario World &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This man has supposedly counted to infinity twice. For ten points each:
Name this martial artist who played Cordell Walker in Walker, Texas Ranger. He also starred in Way of the Dragon with Bruce Lee. Fake facts about him have led him to become an internet meme
This other meme consists of broken English and Comic Sans MS text written on a picture of a Shiba Inu dog. The words consist of phrases starting with words like “such,” “so,” “much,” or “many,” or single word phrases like “wow” or “amaze.”
This meme is a quotation from a botched translation from the beginning of the game Zero Wing. This seven-word phrase is preceded by the lines “Somebody set us up the bomb” and “Main screen turn on,” and is spoken by the villain CATS.
Carlos Ray Norris [or Chuck Norris, prompt on “Chuck”]
Doge
“all your base are belong to us” &lt;MS&gt;
For 10 points each—give these answers related to incidents right up there with Steve Harvey naming the wrong Miss Universe:
In February 2017 a Dominican Republic paper wrote about Trump, but ran a picture of this Saturday Night Live impersonator. This actor was Jack Donaghy on 30 Rock.
The 2017 Academy Awards had a rough night: the very-much-alive Jan Chapman was memorialized, and La La Land was initially named Best Picture until it was realized this film actually won.
In 2013, a Chennai, India billboard meant to honor Nelson Mandela, but instead posted a picture of this star of Evan Almighty and The Bucket List.
(Alexander Rae) Alec Baldwin III
Moonlight
Morgan Freeman
For 10 points each—name these films titles containing acronyms or initials:
Elliott uses a Speak &amp; Spell to “phone home” and save a stranded alien in this 1982 Steven Spielberg film.
Hawkeye Pierce and Hot Lips Houlihan were characters in this 1970 film about army doctors serving in the Korean War. It spawned a long-running TV series.
Haley Joel Osment and Jude Law portrayed Mecha androids in this 2001 film based on Brian Aldiss’s short story “Supertoys Last All Summer Long."
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial
M*A*S*H (which stands for Mobile Army Surgical Hospital)
A.I. Artificial Intelligence
This is the group name of DJs Andrew Taggart and Alex Pall. For 10 points each—
Name this duo whose songs “Closer” and “Paris” topped Billboard’s Dance and Electronic charts.
“Paris” traded the top spot with “"Something Just Like This,” a collaboration between The Chainsmokers and this Chris Martin-led group. Their albums include Mylo Xyloto [zigh-LOH-toh] and A Head Full of Dreams.
The February 2017 premiere of “Something Just Like This” was at the Brit Awards held at this arena. It hosts tennis’s World Tour Finals, and its name is similar to a diatomic molecule.
The Chainsmokers
Coldplay
The O2 Arena [“oh two”] (accept North Greenwich Arena, a name used during the 2012 Olympics)
The first of these was organized by the architect and graphic designer Richard Saul Wurman in 1984. For 10 points each—
Name these presentations often held in Vancouver, and then posted on the web under the slogan "Ideas worth spreading."
This figure did a 2014 TED talk entitled "Here's how we take back the Internet." But he had to speak over video as he's wanted by the U.S. for leaking NSA documents.
This man has hidden in an Ecuadorian embassy since 2012, a saga stemming from sexual assault charges now dropped. His 2010 talk was "Why the World Needs Wikileaks".
TED talks (or conferences) [TED stands for "Technology, Entertainment, Design"]
Edward Snowden
Julian Assange
Walmart lowered its total needed for free shipping to $35 of online purchases, a move many thought would help it compete with this rival. For 10 points each—
Name this company founded by Jeff Bezos [BAY-zos] whose revenue includes subscriptions from its Prime members.
One original program streamed by Amazon Video is this one based on a Philip K. Dick novel about an alternative history in which the United States lost World War II.
Amazon’s EC2 is an example of this type of shared computing resource. Models for this type of “on-demand” access include “Infrastructure as a Service.”
Amazon.com
The Man in the High Castle
cloud computing [EC2 stands for Elastic Compute Cloud]
The first of these events in 1999 was headlined by Beck and Rage Against the Machine. For 10 points each—
Name this California music festival at the Empire Polo Club held over three consecutive April weekends.
The 2017 Coachella Festival featured this singer whose hits include "Poker Face", "Born This Way", and "Million Reasons".
Another 2017 act was this Atlanta hip hop artist who founded 1017 Records. He collaborated with Drake on the songs "Back on Road" and "Both" and his discography includes five Trap House mixtapes.
Coachella [koh-CHELL-ah] Valley Music and Arts Festival
Lady Gaga (or Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta)
Gucci Mane (or Radric Delantic Davis)
For 10 points each—name these teams who have or had title droughts:
If they go another 102 years, this team's next World Series victory will be in 2118. They won the 2016 title with Kris Bryant and Kyle Hendricks on the roster.
This team won Super Bowl III ["three"] with Joe Namath at quarterback, but have gone 48 seasons without another championship. They play home games in the Meadowlands.
This NHL team has the third most Stanley Cup victories behind Montreal and Detroit, but hasn't won since 1967.
Chicago Cubs (prompt on "Chicago")
New York Jets (prompt on "New York")
Toronto Maple Leafs (accept either underlined name)
For 10 points each—name these members of musical collaborations:
The Mikado and The Pirates of Penzance are comic operas by W.S. Gilbert and what musician?
Richard Rodgers collaborated with this lyricist on South Pacific, The King and I, and The Sound of Music.
Paint Your Wagon, Brigadoon, and My Fair Lady were produced by the librettist Alan Jay Lerner with what composer?
Arthur Sullivan (accept Gilbert and Sullivan)
Oscar Hammerstein II (accept Rodgers and Hammerstein)
Frederick Loewe (accept Lerner and Loewe)
This cyberattack forced English hospitals to divert patients. For 10 points each—
Name this ransomware released in Spring 2017 that used the EternalBlue tool to exploit a Windows vulnerability known as MS17-010.
One business affected by WannaCry was this courier founded by Frederick Smith. Over the years this company has acquired the Flying Tiger air service and Kinko's office supplies, and it sponsors the Washington Redskins home field.
The price to decrypt files had to be paid in this online currency whose transactions are recorded in a blockchain public ledger. It was created by a person or group known as Satoshi Nakamoto.
WannaCry or WanaCryptor 2.0
FedEx Corporation (or Federal Express)
bitcoin
The 2016 winners of this award were the Red Sox's Rick Porcello and the Nationals' Max Scherzer. For 10 points each—
Name this award given to each league's best pitcher.
Three Cy Youngs have gone to this player, who was the youngest man in the major leagues when he started for the Dodgers in 2008.
This pitcher earned seven Cy Youngs in a career that began with Boston in 1984 and ended with the Yankees in 2007. He was nicknamed "the Rocket".
Cy Young Award
Clayton Kershaw
(William) Roger Clemens
This TV personality found himself in hot water over allegations he called Perquita Burgess "Hot Chocolate." For 10 points each—
Name this man fired from his job over sexual harassment allegations. He continues to produce the No Spin News podcast.
Bill O'Reilly formerly worked at this news station which also saw the July 2016 resignation of Roger Ailes for similar reasons. This channel attracts conservative viewers.
This other Fox News personality has also left, and began hosting the third hour of NBC’s Today show. After she sparred with Donald Trump while moderating a debate, Trump controversially said there was “blood coming out of her eyes.”
(William James) Bill O'Reilly (Jr)
Fox News Channel
Megyn Kelly
For 10 points each--give these answers related to mathematicians in film:
Katherine Johnson and Dorothy Vaughan were among the women who calculated rocket trajectories while employed by this organization in the film Hidden Figures.
Jeff Goldblum portrayed Dr. Ian Malcolm in this 1993 film. The doctor uses tiny imperfections in Ellie Sattler’s hand to explain chaos theory and also criticizes John Hammond’s bioengineering.
The Imitation Game told the story of this Englishman who designed an early computer to crack the Enigma codes. A theoretical machine named for him performs computations on a paper infinite in size.
NASA or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Jurassic Park
Alan Turing
For 10 points each—give these titles which are years:
“I was dreamin’ when I wrote this” begins the second verse of this Prince song. He says he’s “gonna party like it’s” this title year.
John Cusack starred in this film in which solar emissions heat Earth’s core, causing Earth-crust displacement. Humanity builds arks to survive the devastation.
Songs in this musical include “Cool, Cool, Considerate Men,” which is sung by John Dickinson, and “Sit Down, John,” which is addressed to a Massachusetts delegate.
1999
2012
1776 [the Massachusetts man is John Adams]
This show debuted in January 2017 with the murder of Jason Blossom, whose body is found in a lake by Kevin and Moose. For 10 points each—
Name this CW series based on Archie Comics.
Riverdale’s Jughead is played by this actor who starred with his twin brother Dylan on TV’s The Suite Life on Deck and in the film The Kings of Appletown.
Archie’s father Fred is played by this star of Jeremiah who must find it strange to be surrounded by teen heartthrobs since that used to be his job as Dylan McKay on Beverly Hills, 90210.
Riverdale
Cole (Mitchell) Sprouse
Luke Perry
March 2017 saw the newest installment of <em>The Legend of Zelda</em>. For 10 points each—
What was the subtitle of that game?
The villain in Breath of the Wild is the “Calamity” version of this foe who kidnapped Zelda in the original game.
With the introduction of food to regain health and weapons that break, many gamers compared Breath of the Wild to this game series in which Geralt of Rivia slays monsters.
Breath of the Wild
Ganon(dorf)
The Witcher
In 2016, this man threw his mouth guard at a Cleveland Cavaliers fan in frustration. For 10 points each:
Name this Golden State Warriors point guard. Forming the “Splash Brothers” with Klay Thompson, in the 2015-16 season, he became the first NBA player to make four hundred three pointers in one season.
In a strange coincidence, both Curry and LeBron James were delivered at the same hospital in this Ohio city. A traditional center of the rubber industry, this city is home to Goodyear Tires.
Curry gained fame in college for leading his Davidson Wildcats past this Big East powerhouse in the 2008 NCAA tournament. Though this Washington, D.C. school’s mascot is a bulldog, their team nickname is Latin for “what is it.”
Stephen Curry
Akron
Georgetown University
For 10 points each, identify these things related to the hit television series <em>Friends</em>.
This actress, the first wife of Brad Pitt, played Rachel Green, the socialite turned waitress who has an off-and-on relationship with Ross Geller.
This eccentric member of the Friends gang is a massage therapist who sings “Smelly Cat,” has a twin sister named Ursula, and becomes a surrogate for her brother Frank.
The gang always meets in this coffeehouse where Rachel works.
Jennifer Aniston
Phoebe Buffay [accept either]
Central Perk
This musical pairs the contrasting songs “Epiphany” and “A Little Priest” together at the end of Act 1. For 10 points each:
Name this musical that features the murderous “Demon Barber of Fleet Street,” who has his victims baked into Mrs. Lovett’s pies.
This prolific American composer and lyricist wrote the lyrics to West Side Story in addition to Sweeney Todd.
Sondheim’s early work, including his contributions to West Side Story, found success in this popular theatre in Manhattan that performs many musicals.
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street
Stephen Sondheim
Broadway
The belief that this team was “cursed” grew when fan Steve Bartman knocked a foul ball away from Moises Alou in the 2003 NLCS against the Marlins. For 10 points each:
Name this team that was allegedly the victims of the Curse of the Billy Goat. Their 2016 World Series title was the team’s first since 1908.
The final out of the Cubs’ 2016 World Series triumph over the Cleveland Indians was recorded by this third baseman and 2016 National League MVP. He is only the fourth player to win the Rookie of the Year and MVP awards in back-to-back seasons.
Another Cubs third baseman, Ron Santo, was standing in the on-deck circle in 1969 when one of these animals, a traditional omen of bad luck, wandered onto the field. Many claimed one of these felines hexed the Cubs, as they lost their division lead after the incident and missed the playoffs.
Chicago Cubs [prompt on “Chicago”]
Kris Bryant
Black Cat [prompt on “cat”]
For 10 points each, name some very hard video game franchises.
This franchise developed by FromSoftware and published by Namco Bandai is known for its challenging bosses including Ornstein and Smough [Sm-OWW] and the Asylum Demon. This specific franchise came after its “Demons’” counterpart.
This franchise, whose first home installments were released on the Nintendo Entertainment System, features the ninja Ryu Hayabusa. Developers for this game include Tecmo and, more recently, Team Ninja.
This franchise, developed by Rare, follows the title amphibians in their various escapades. An old prank involving this game revolves around calling a GameStop to preorder nonsensical editions of this game.
Dark Souls
Ninja Gaiden
Battletoads
“I’ve been the game for years, it made me an animal.” More specifically, I’m talking about the rap game. For 10 points each, answer these songs about rappers from different periods.
The lyrics referenced at the beginning of this bonus are from this rapper’s “10 Crack Commandments.” He was shot to death as a result of his rivalry with Tupac.
This other rapper collaborated with Biggie in the song “Dead Wrong.” In that song, he references his name, “Marshall Mathers.” He also played the central role in the movie 8 Mile, where he sings the song “Lose Yourself.”
Eminem once tested this other rapper to see if he had a ghostwriter. This rapper is well-known for the albums good kid, m.A.A.d city and To Pimp a Butterfly. Barack Obama once said that this rapper was better than Drake.
Biggie Smalls [accept The Notorious B.I.G. or Christopher George Latore Wallace]
Eminem [accept Slim Shady]
Kendrick Lamar [accept Kendrick Duckworth; prompt on “K-Dot”]
Filles de Kilimanjaro infused electric guitars with this man’s music. For 10 points each:
Name this jazz trumpeter who released the song “So What” on the album Kind of Blue.
Davis was credited with pioneering a type of jazz described by this adjective. He also released an album with Gerry Mulligan called Birth of the [this adjective].
Miles Davis also worked with this man, who later worked with the Headhunters to release the song “Watermelon Man” on the album Takin’ Off.
Miles Davis
Cool
Herbie Hancock
For 10 points each, name these sketch-comedy based television shows:
Beyond their show, this group’s filmography includes The Life of Brian and a production which features the “Knights who say Ni!”
Frequently taking aim at sensitive and political topics, this late-night NBC television show has helped comedy stars such as Eddie Murphy and Chevy Chase enter into the mainstream.
Relying heavily on the impressions done by its namesake host, including a famous one of Lil Jon, this comedy show ran for three seasons on Comedy Central. Its host now lives in Yellow Springs, Ohio.
Monty Python’s Flying Circus
Saturday Night Live [accept SNL]
Dave Chappelle’s Show
These can be defined as elements of culture or systems of behavior passed from one individual to another. For 10 points each:
Identify these objects that are frequently in the form of “dank” images on the internet.
This was the first modern illustration of a meme, in which an image of a stylized man peeks over a wall. It was allegedly created by American GIs, and it is based on a British “Mr. Chad.”
Identify this meme, added to the Southern Poverty Law Center’s list of hate symbols because of its use by neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups.
Memes
Kilroy was here [accept clear knowledge equivalents, like “the bald guy with a big nose looking over a wall”]
Pepe the frog [accept Feels Bad Man Frog or Sad Frog; prompt on anything mentioning “frog”]
Answer these questions on the achievements of females at the Academy Awards. For 10 points each:
This woman received the Best Actress award for her portrayal of aspiring actress Mia Dolan in La La Land during the 2017 ceremony.
This African-American comedian, known for playing Celie in The Color Purple, is the only female to have hosted the Oscars four times. She is currently one of the hosts on The View.
This woman has won the Academy Award for Best Costume Design for Chicago, Memoirs of a Geisha, Alice in Wonderland, and most recently, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
Emma Stone
Whoopi Goldberg [accept Caryn Elaine Johnson]
Colleen Atwood
The patriarch of this family, LaVar, has made headlines for, among other things, claiming his oldest son would beat Michael Jordan in a one-on-one basketball game. For 10 points each:
Name this family, whose members include a point guard drafted second overall by the Lakers in the 2017 NBA Draft. This family includes the younger brothers LiAngelo and LaMelo.
Lonzo played one year of college basketball for this California university, whose athletic teams are called the Bruins.
In addition to talking up his sons, LaVar Ball has founded this alliterative sports apparel company. This company’s flagship sneaker, the ZO2, has a retail price of $495.
Ball family [or LaVar Ball; or Lonzo Ball; or LiAngelo Ball; or LaMelo Ball]
UCLA [or University of California, Los Angeles]
Big Baller Brand [prompt on partial answer; prompt on BBB] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The "W" and pigs were flying at the 2016 World Series. For 10 points each:
Name this Joe Maddon-coached team based in Chicago, that won their first World Series since 1908.
This player, that won the 2015 World Series with the Kansas City Royals, won the World Series MVP after he drove in the game winning RBI in the top of the 10th inning in game 7.
This Cubs President of Baseball Operations ended two World Series droughts, due to his term as the General Manager of the 2004 Boston Red Sox, who won their first title since 1918.
Chicago Cubs [prompt on Chicago]
Ben Zobrist
Theo Epstein &lt;Cole Phinney&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Rule changes to the Grammy awards categories were seen as a reaction to her surprise win for Best New Artist in 2011. For 10 points each:
Name this Jazz artist, whose fusion-heavy fifth album, Emily’s D+Evolution, came out in 2016 after a two-year hiatus.
Esperanza Spalding both sings and plays the upright and electric version of this string instrument, as did Jaco Pastorius and Charles Mingus.
Spalding’s 2010 performance on Austin City Limits, which has run on a channel provided by this non-profit organization since 1976, made her Google’s most searched-for person for a day.
Esperanza Spalding
Bass
PBS [or the Public Broadcasting Service] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This man was a quarterback for the UCLA Bruins in 1972-73, and is currently married to Pam Dawber. For 10 points each:
Name this man, who played Ryan in the 2003 version of Freaky Friday.
Mark Harmon portrays Leroy Jethro Gibbs on this show, which started in 2003 and is still airing today on CBS. This show deals with murder cases in a certain branch of the military.
On NCIS, Gibbs has a set of rules, the ninth of which states, “Never go anywhere without” this object. In the season one episode “One shot to kill,” Gibbs reminds Tony to have this object.
Mark Harmon
NCIS [do NOT accept “NCIS: Los Angeles,” “NCIS: New Orleans,” “Navy NCIS” or “Naval CSI”]
Knife &lt;Katlynn Miller&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This film concludes with a shot of a half-buried Statue of Liberty, after which the protagonist exclaims, “You blew it up!” For 10 points each:
In what film does the astronaut George Taylor encounter the mute Nova in a world dominated by the title creatures?
George Taylor is portrayed by this actor, who also played Moses in The Ten Commandments.
This Orangutan Minister of Science is the chief antagonist of Planet of the Apes. Throughout the film, he tries to conceal the fact that apes were once inferior to humans.
Planet of the Apes
Charlton Heston [or John Charles Carter]
Dr. Zaius &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This receiver's catch came with his team down 8 points and 2:28 to play. For 10 points each:
Name this wide receiver who made a diving catch, grabbing it just a few inches from the ground, with just over 2 minutes left in Super Bowl 51.
Julian Edelman is a wide receiver for this Boston-based team, whose quarterback Tom Brady was accused of partially deflating footballs in the “Deflategate” scandal.
The Patriots came back from this score, which was their largest deficit, to win the Super Bowl. This score has been the subject of many Falcons-related memes.
Julian Edelman
New England Patriots [or New England Patriots]
28 to 3 &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Name some things about the musical artists in hip hop magazine XXL’s <em>[“Double X L”]</em> Freshman Class of 2017. For 10 points each:
Ugly God’s most popular song is titled after this substance, which he claims to “drip on your girl.” In the music video, he appears with two women on a boat surrounded by this substance.
Another member’s name is “A Boogie Wit Da-” one of these articles of clothing. The Million one of these objects movement was created in response to Trayvon Martin’s death.
This artist, known for the screamed horrorcore inspired song “Look at Me”, was mocked on twitter for his odd cypher performance where he declared he “will spare none of you peasants”
Water
Hoodies [or Million Hoodies Movement; or A Boogie Wit Da-Hoodie]
XXXTENTACION [“EX-EX-EX Ten-tah-cion”] [or Jahseh Dwayne Onfroy] &lt;Jonathan Amlong&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer some questions about toys funded by Kickstarter. For 10 points each:
The Denbighs [“Denbys”] started a campaign to fund production for this board game that they invented. The goal of this game is to understand what people are saying with a mouth retractor.
Antsy Labs introduced an item on Kickstarter and raised more than 6 million dollars. That block-like toy aims to calm users who perform this action a lot, like similar “spinners.”
This toy from 2014 allows users to use alligator clips to turn anything into a touchpad, which interfaces with a computer. It can let you play on a piano made of bananas.
Watch ‘Ya Mouth
Fidgetting [or fidget cubes; or fidget spinners]
Makey Makey &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Strawberries and cream are refreshments associated with this event, and a retractable roof was finally installed at this event’s Centre Court in 2009. For 10 points each:
Name this tradition-laden athletic championship, played at the All England Club since 1877. Competitors must follow a strict dress code of all-white or near-white clothing.
This man defeated Marin Čilić [“Sill-itch”] in 2017 to win his record 8th championship in Gentlemen’s Singles. This Swiss tennis player has also captured an all-time best 19 Grand Slam titles.
Before Federer won his 8th Wimbledon championship this year, he was tied in the record books with this American star, who won 7 Wimbledons in 8 years from 1993 to 2000.
The Championships, Wimbledon [prompt on The Championships]
Roger Federer
Pete Sampras [or Petros Sampras] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer some questions about Amazon’s foray into food. For 10 points each.
In June 2017, Amazon announced that it had acquired this upscale grocery chain for over 13 billion dollars. This grocery chain drew controversy for using prison labor in 2015.
Amazon also announced a partnership with this Italian restaurant chain, whose trademark offerings include a “Never-Ending” pasta bowl, as well as unlimited breadsticks.
Amazon plans to deliver Olive Garden foods to members of this premium paid subscription service, which also offers free two-day shipping and Instant Video.
Whole Foods Market, Inc.
Olive Garden
Amazon Prime &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Doctor Octopus temporarily overtook this character’s body as his namesake “superior” form in a 31-issue series. For 10 points each:
Name this superhero, whose mantle was taken up by Miles Morales in the Ultimate Marvel universe. In the MCU, this character is currently portrayed by Tom Holland.
This character is blamed for the death of Earth-65’s Peter Parker, who becomes the Lizard. The Green Goblin threw this first girlfriend of Peter Parker off of a bridge, causing her death.
In Ultimate Spider-Man, Gwen was killed by this villain. The serial killer Cletus Kasady first became this supervillain in 1991.
Spider-Man [or Peter Parker; or Peter Parker]
Gwen Stacy [or Gwen Stacy; or Gwendolyn Maxine Stacy; or Spider-Gwen; prompt on Spider-Woman]
Carnage &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This channel premiered on August 1, 1981, airing the Buggles’ “Video Killed the Radio Star.” For 10 points each:
Name this cable channel, that your parents remember used to play music videos, but you know as the place you can watch Jersey Shore reruns and The Real World.
This singer wrote “I wanna bite the hand that feeds me” in his song “Radio, Radio.” With The Attractions, this man played that song on SNL against the wishes of Lorne Michaels.
This Michael Stipe-led band’s single “Radio Song” was the 4th single off their album Out of Time, after “Losing My Religion.”
MTV
Elvis Costello
R.E.M &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Name some things about Lin-Manuel Miranda that have nothing to do with <em>Hamilton</em>. For 10 points each:
He was asked by this composer of Godspell and Wicked to contribute two songs for a 2008 revival of the 1978 musical Working!, adding the songs “Delivery” and “A Good Day.”
At the same time, this breakthrough show of Miranda’s moved onto Broadway.  This show concerns Abuela Claudia when she wins 96,000 dollars from the lottery.
Off-Broadway in 2014, Miranda appeared as the lead in a revival of Tick, Tick...Boom!, an autobiographical musical by this deceased composer of Rent.
Stephen Schwartz
In the Heights
Jonathan Larsen &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
It is the most successful independent record label in history, and was once the highest-earning black-owned business in America. For 10 points each:
Name this record label, headquartered in Detroit until 1972. Its artists included the Temptations, the Supremes, and Stevie Wonder.
This man was the founder of Motown Records. He also worked as a songwriter, penning hits like “Lonely Teardrops” for Jackie Wilson.
This singer debuted his signature dance move, the Moonwalk, at Motown’s 25th anniversary celebration. Gordy said this man was the “greatest entertainer ever” at his 2009 funeral.
Motown Records [or Tamla Motown]
Berry Gordy, Jr. [or Berry Gordy III]
Michael Jackson [or Michael Joseph Jackson] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer the following about villains from the Marvel cinematic universe. For 10 points each:
This Kree extremist was distracted from his goal of destroying Xandar after being challenged to a dance-off by Star Lord. For a short time, he is able to use the power stone.
This antagonist and namesake of the second Avengers film creates a body out of Vibranium, but is ultimately destroyed after the Battle of Sokovia by Vision.
This man hires the Ten Rings to kidnap Tony Stark so he can regain his position as CEO of Stark Industries.
Ronan the Accuser
Ultron [or Avengers: Age of Ultron]
Iron Monger [or Obadiah Stane; or Obadiah Stane; or “Obie”] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Name these examples of the Silicon Valley buzzword “disruption.” For 10 points each:
This rideshare app came under scrutiny for its “God View” allowing employees to view information about customers' routes and drivers without their knowledge. Its main competitor is Lyft.
This company's “Fresh” division delivers groceries, and its Kindle allows people to read books electronically. This Jeff Bezos-led company also has an extensive used books catalogue.
This app allows people to host guests for a fee, a practice Quebec's legislature is trying to regulate. They offer Host Insurance against guest damages.
Uber
Amazon
AirBnB &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: The narrator of this film cheats on her boyfriend, a bodybuilder who regularly says things that imply he is gay, played by John Cena. For 10 points each:
Name this movie about a magazine writer who performs a cheerleading routine to win back Lebron James's doctor, Aaron Conners, who is played by Bill Hader.
Trainwreck was written by and stars this comedienne, who also hosts a sketch show on Comedy Central titled “Inside” her.
This man directed Trainwreck in addition to Knocked Up and This is 40, the latter two of which both feature his wife Leslie Mann. Seth Rogen and James Franco have starred in his show Freaks and Geeks.
Trainwreck
Amy Schumer
Judd Apatow &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: This album includes the song “P.Y.T.,” which stands for “Pretty Young Thing.” For 10 points each:
Name this best-selling album of all time, which includes the songs “Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'” and “Beat It.” Its title track has a music video in which the singer turns into a werewolf.
Thriller is an album by this singer, who worked with Quincy Jones on both Thriller and his follow-up album Bad. He died on his Neverland Ranch of a propofol overdose.
In the song “Beat It,” a member of this band named Eddie played a guitar solo. This band, whose members included David Lee Roth, performed “Hot For Teacher” and “Panama.”
Thriller
Michael Jackson
Van Halen &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: This doll was created by Ruth Handler. For 10 points each:
Name this blonde doll, the older sister of Skipper, who in 2004 broke up temporarily with her long-time boyfriend Ken.
Barbie is taken to Sunnyside Daycare in this film, where she falls in love with Ken. In this film the stuffed bear Lotso imprisons Woody, who is rescued from incineration by Aliens operating “The Claw.”
This actor voiced Ken in the film Toy Story 3. Previously, he starred as Batman in Tim Burton's film that featured Jack Nicholson playing The Joker, and portrayed Riggan Thomson in Birdman.
Barbie
Toy Story 3
Michael Keaton &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer the following about media portrayals of Spartacus:
The 1960 film Spartacus was directed by this man, who may be better known for directing Dr. Strangelove and 2001: A Space Odyssey.
This actor starred as Spartacus in Kubrick’s film. This man’s son Michael portrayed the corporate raider Gordon Gekko in the 1987 film Wall Street.
The 2010 series Spartacus: Blood and Sand, as well as its sequels Vengeance and War of the Damned, premiered on this premium cable network, which also premiered Boss and currently shows Outlander.
Stanley Kubrick
Kirk Douglas [or Issur Danielovitch]
Starz &lt;SAM&gt;
Bonus: Name the following about bird-related things in video games, for 10 points each:
This character first appears in Super Mario Bros. 2, where it is a pink dinosaur that wears a bow in its hair and a diamond ring, and spits eggs during battles with Mario.
This game's developer Dong Nguyen removed it from app stores in February 2014, fearing it had become too addictive. Players direct a bird named Faby between green pipes in this game.
Chickens called cuccos show up in this Nintendo series, where Link can grab them and glide while jumping. A Link Between Worlds is the most recent release in this series for the 3DS.
Birdo
Flappy Bird
The Legend of Zelda &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: Name these publications and television channels that cover sports, for 10 points each:
This website, published by Gawker Media, publishes an annual “Why Your Team Sucks” series about the prospects of major sports teams. It was founded by Will Leitch, and Drew Magary currently writes for this site.
This website, founded by Bill Simmons, published an article about a fraudulent “magic putter” that outed a transgender woman named Essay Anne Vanderbilt, who subsequently committed suicide.
This sports news conglomerate airs the shows Around The Horn and Sportscenter. Their employee Stephen A. Smith insinuated that Ray Rice's wife should have not provoked her abuse.
Deadspin
Grantland
ESPN (or Entertainment and Sports Programming Network) &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: This film shows the aftermath of David Miranda's visit with Laura Poitras. For 10 points each:
Name this winner of the 2015 Academy Award for Best Documentary, the bulk of which shows the title figure being interrogated about the XKEYSCORE and PRISM data-collection programs.
This man, who used the code name “Citizenfour,” is the ex-contractor with the NSA who leaks the information about XKEYSCORE and PRISM. He flees to Moscow and is followed there by his girlfriend at the end of the film.
This British newspaper was the first one to bring the Snowden leaks to public view. Glenn Greenwald’s work with this newspaper helped it earn the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service.
Citizenfour
Edward Snowden
The Guardian &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: After refusing to speak to the media in November 2014, this man was fined $100,000, so he appeared in a subsequent postgame press conferences responding to most of the questions with “Yeah,” and in his next appearance he mostly said “Thank you for asking.” For 10 points each:
Name this man who wore his “Beast Mode” brand to a press event before his team, the Seattle Seahawks, played in the 2015 Super Bowl.
During Super Bowl Media Day in 2015, Lynch spent five minutes where he only answered questions with this phrase. The next day he got back on stage and responded to questions with “You know why I'm here.”
Lynch allowed himself to be interviewed in an ad for this favorite candy of his, where he revealed that he would rather enter the field on gameday in a blimp, and that he would rather watch cat videos instead of dog videos online.
Marshawn Lynch
I'm here so I won't get fined or [I'm just here so I won't get fined]
Skittles &lt;CD&gt;
A$AP Rocky describes his local drug dealer as having this name on the song “Suddenly”. For 10 points each,
Name this Bolivian cocaine lord from the movie Scarface. A Chief Keef track titled “Love [this man]” begins with an clip found on WorldstarHipHop.
Chief Keef an exponent of this city’s ‘Drill’ style of trap music. Another hip-hop artist from this city quoted Billie Holiday’s “Strange Fruit” on the track “Blood on the Leaves.”
That famous rapper from Chicago is this artist behind Graduation, My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, and Yeezus. He is notorious for taking the microphone from Taylor Swift at the 2009 VMA’s.
Alejandro Sosa [prompt on Alex]
Chicago
Kanye Omari West [Accept either] &lt;KS&gt;
Answer some questions about the Evolution Championship Series in fighting games, or EVO, for 10 points each:
Armada and Hungrybox faced off in the Grand Finals of this 15-year old game at EVO 2015. Techniques such as wave-dashing can be found in this game, which includes many Nintendo characters such as Mario and Pikachu.
Capcom characters fight characters from this comic book company in another game on the EVO lineup. This rival of DC Comics has published characters such as Spider-Man, Iron Man, and the Fantastic Four.
The tenth installment of this video game series was introduced to EVO 2015. Characters such as Sub-Zero and Scorpion appear in this series, which frequently garners notoriety for its often vicious “fatality” finishing moves.
Super Smash Bros. Melee [prompt on “Super Smash Bros”]
Marvel Comics [accept Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3; accept UMvC3]
Mortal Kombat &lt;EX&gt;
This anime series follows Son Goku as he battles villains from outer space including Frieza and Majin Buu. For ten points each:
Name this anime series in which a wish-giving dragon is called forth whenever 7 of the titular entities are collected.
Dragon Ball Z was created by this man. This man also created another series, Dr. Slump, and has worked on character design for several games in the Dragon Quest video game franchise.
A recent film in the Dragon Ball Z series is titled Battle of these entities. In Shinto mythology, these entities include Amaterasu and Susano’o.
Dragon Ball Z (prompt on Dragon Ball)
Akira Toriyama
gods &lt;MM&gt;
Bonus: A song in it alternates between 3/4 and 6/8 while extolling the virtues of “America.” For 10 points each:
Name this musical, composed by Leonard Bernstein, which is based on Romeo and Juliet and features the doomed romance of Tony and Maria. It also contains the songs “I Feel Pretty” and “Tonight”.
The lyrics to West Side Story were written by this composer and lyricist, who also created the musicals Into the Woods, Gypsy, and Sweeney Todd.
This 1994 Sondheim musical concerns the love affair between the handsome Captain Giorgio and the homely Fosca. Plays depicting the final moments of Jesus Christ also share this play’s title.
West Side Story [accept WSS]
Stephen Sondheim
Passion (accept passion plays) &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: During the 2015 NBA Finals, this player led both teams in points, assists, and rebounds. For 10 points each:
Name this small forward from Akron, Ohio who was drafted 1st overall by the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2003.
LeBron James’ departure from the Cavaliers in 2010 was announced in an ESPN TV special with this title, and LeBron’s announcement of his return was described as “this term 2.0”.
This owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers wrote an amusingly angry letter to Cleveland fans in Comic Sans after LeBron’s departure. This man may possibly spend over $300 million this season after luxury taxes.
LeBron James [accept either underlined name]
The Decision [do not accept or prompt on just “Decision”]
Dan Gilbert &lt;EX&gt;
Answer questions about journalists in film, for 10 points each:
In this 1941 Orson Welles classic, the title character is a newspaper magnate after starting in yellow journalism. This film’s protagonist mysteriously mutters “Rosebud” at his death.
This actor plays a journalist who falls in love with the estranged heiress Ellie Andrews in It Happened One Night. He played the Charleston gentleman Rhett Butler in Gone With The Wind.
In a 1962 film, Feisal [FIE-sill] claims that this man is the “hero” that American reporter Jackson Bentley is seeking. This character’s death in a motorcycle crash is shown at the start of the film.
Citizen Kane
Clark Gable
T.E. Lawrence [or “Lawrence of Arabia”; or El Orens; or El Aurens]
Answer the following about the culinary career of Uruguayan footballer Luis Suarez, for 10 points each:
After blatantly committing a handball in the 2010 World Cup, Suarez topped himself in 2014 by biting Giorgio Chiellini during Uruguay’s match with this 2006 World Cup-winning nation.
Suarez had earned a ten-match ban while a member of Liverpool in 2013, when he bit defender Branislav Ivanovic, of this club. Kurt Zouma and Thibaut Courtois are young starlets for this English club.
Suarez’s first biting offense occurred in 2010 while playing for Ajax [EYE-ax] in this country’s domestic league, the Eredivisie [air-uh-div-EES-ee-ay].
Italy [or Italia; or the Italian Republic; or the Azzurri]
Chelsea FC
the Netherlands [or Holland; or Nederland]
Answer the following about Jerome Robbins, for 10 points each:
Robbins choreographed this musical, with music by Leonard Bernstein, and directed its movie adaptation. Tony and Maria are stand-ins for Romeo and Juliet in gangster-ous New York City in this musical.
In Robbins’ memorable wordless opening to West Side Story, the Jets are hanging out on a basketball court, performing this action. The Sharks then proceed to do this action while dancing around, too.
Robbins also choreographed a ballet and musical named for this fictional character. Allison Williams played this male character in a live 2014 NBC revival of Robbins’ musical, in a sort-of-sequel to The Sound of Music Live!
West Side Story
snapping their fingers [or obvious equivalents]
Peter Pan [prompt on partial answer; or Peter Pan Live!]
For 10 points each, answer some questions about controversial endings to perfect game bids in baseball:
In 2010, pitcher Armando Galarraga was on this team when his perfect game bid was broken up with two outs in the ninth by a bad call by first-base umpire Jim Joyce.
In 2015, Pittsburgh’s Jose Tabata was controversially hit by a pitch to end this Washington Nationals ace’s bid for a perfect game with one out to go. This pitcher won the 2013 AL Cy Young as a member of the Tigers.
In 1995, this then-Expos pitcher had a perfect game broken up in the tenth inning by a Bip Roberts double. This 2015 Hall of Fame inductee’s number 45 has been retired by the team with whom he won the 2004 World Series.
Detroit Tigers [accept either independently]
Max Scherzer
Pedro Martinez
Each installment of this film franchise takes place in an apocalyptic Australian Outback. For 10 points each:
Name this movie franchise that starred Mel Gibson in the first three films and Tom Hardy in the 2015 film.
In Mad Max: Fury Road, Max teams up with this female Imperator of Immortan Joe. At the beginning of the film, she drives an armored tanker to collect gasoline from Gas Town.
Imperator Furiosa was played by this South African actress who played Seth Macfarlane’s love interest Anna in A Million Days to Die in the West. She won an Oscar for her portrayal of serial killer Aileen Wuornos in Monster.
Mad Max
Imperator Furiosa
Charlize Theron
Vincent D’Onofrio starred as Wilson Fisk in this Netflix show. For 10 points each:
Name this original series about a blind Marvel hero that aired its first season in 2015.
In the series, Matt Murdock is portrayed by this actor, whose earlier roles include Owen Sleater on Boardwalk Empire.
Marvel announced that Jon Bernthal will take this role in Season 2. Dolph Lundgren and Thomas Jane have also portrayed this antihero, who exacts vengeance on criminals.
Daredevil
Charlie Cox
The Punisher [or Frank Castle]
Finn the human and Jake the dog are the protagonists of this Cartoon Network show. For 10 points each:
Name this show, which takes place in the Land of Ooo.
Finn and Jake’s adventures frequently involve thwarting the princess kidnapping schemes of this frosty, old wizard who lives in a mountain with his penguins.
This creator of Adventure Time and Bravest Warriors also worked on The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack as a writer and storyboard artist.
Adventure Time
The Ice King
Pendleton Ward
This film begins with Bert the Turtle walking down the street, when a stick of dynamite magically starts following behind his head. For 10 points each:
Name this film produced by the Civil Defense Administration and shown in many schools during the Cold War, which is named for the two actions children were supposed to do in the event of a nuclear attack.
Cold War overtones overtook this 1964 advertisement, which was aired only one time by Lyndon B. Johnson’s campaign. In this anti-Goldwater ad, a girl is peacefully picking petals off a flower when a nuclear bomb is set off.
A 1984 ad that painted President Reagan as “Prepared for Peace” used this animal to symbolize the Soviet Union. Pictures of one type of this animal hanging on melting ice are used in the media to point to climate change.
Duck and Cover
“Daisy” ad [or “Daisy girl” ad; or “Peace, little girl” ad]
a “bear in the woods” [or grizzly bear; or polar bear]
These objects are the namesake of a tongue-in-cheek holiday on May 25, invented in response to a passage that describes a “frood who really knows where” one of these objects is. For 10 points each:
Name these objects, which are just “about the most massively useful things an interstellar hitchhiker can have.”
The frood who totally has got his towel under control is this character from Betelgeuse, who convinces Arthur Dent to leave Earth minutes before it is demolished by Vogons.
May 25 is the birthday of this British author, who apparently came up with the idea for The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy while lying drunk in a field in Austria.
towels
Ford Prefect [or Ford Prefect]
Douglas Adams
Name some musical acts from the 1960s that weren’t The Beatles, for 10 points each:
This California group behind “Good Vibrations” led by the brothers Wilson put out surf rock hits like “Surfin’ USA” and “Little Deuce Coupe.”
This group explored psychedelia on their 1967 debut album The Piper at the Gates of Dawn. They became better-known in the 1970s after Roger Waters became the lyricist and penned songs like “Money.”
This artist penned the 1960s protest hit “For What It’s Worth” while a member of Buffalo Springfield. He is the ‘S’ in the folk super-group CSNY.
The Beach Boys
Pink Floyd
Stephen Stills
A scene in this film alternates between close-ups of men’s eyes and their hands reaching for guns during a Mexican standoff set in the middle of Sand Hill cemetery. For 10 points each:
Name this film in which Angel Eyes follows Blondie and Tuco as they search for a cache of Confederate gold. Like the rest of Sergio Leone’s Dollars Trilogy, it starred Clint Eastwood.
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly exemplifies the “spaghetti” type of this genre that was popularized by John Wayne and features many cowboys.
This film composer wrote the score for The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, which includes many of his most famous pieces such as the film’s theme and The Ecstasy of Gold.
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
Westerns
Ennio Morricone
Despite having starred in several successful films, Leonardo DiCaprio has yet to win an Oscar, for 10 points each:
In this 2006 film, DiCaprio plays a Rhodesian gunrunner named Danny Archer, who smuggles the title objects during Sierra Leone’s Civil War.
In this 1997 film, a young Leo plays the poor artist Jack Dawson, who falls in love with first-class passenger Rose Bukater. This film’s title vessel sinks after hitting an iceberg.
In 2008, DiCaprio starred in this film with his Titanic co-star, Kate Winslet. The two play Frank and April Wheeler, who struggle with their ambitions while living in the Connecticut suburbs.
Blood Diamond
Titanic
Revolutionary Road
It surpassed Wal-Mart as the most valuable retailer in America in 2015, despite not actually owning any physical stores. For 10 points each:
Name this online retail company founded by Jeff Bezos in 1994. It launched its Kindle tablet line in 2007, which sold out in the first five hours after launch.
In 2005, Amazon launched this membership service that gave US consumers free two-day shipping. Members of this service also receive instant streaming services from Amazon Video.
In 2015, Amazon covered an entire NYC subway car in advertisements for this original Amazon Video series. Based on the book by Philip Dick, the series takes place in an alternate future where the Axis Powers won WWII and control the US.
Amazon.com
Amazon Prime
The Man in the High Castle
One man offered AMC $75 Million in order to produce a 6<sup>th</sup> season of this show. For 10 points each:
Name this original AMC series starring Bryan Cranston as Walter White and Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman. On this show, the men run a methamphetamine business in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Walter and Jesse’s 99.1% pure meth is given this nickname based off of its color. The color comes from Walter’s use of methylamine instead of pseudoephedrine in the cooking process.
At the end of Season 1, Walter is forced to begin using this alias as competing drug dealers in Albuquerque begin to crack down on him. This alias is the last name of a 20th Century German theoretical physicist.
Breaking Bad
Blue Sky
Heisenberg
After his speech announcing his bid for the 2016 Presidency, this man came under fire for his comments about Mexican Immigrants. For 10 points each:
Name this real-estate mogul and former host of NBC’s The Apprentice.
This Mexican drug lord told Donald Trump via Twitter he would, “make you eat your words”. He escaped from a Mexican maximum-security prison in 2015 for a second time.
Many businesses in Mexico and the U.S. have seen a rapid increase in demands for customized versions of these objects intended to resemble Trump.
Donald John Trump
El Chapo [accept Joaquín Archivaldo Guzmán Loera]
Piñatas
This movie starring Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill was based on a book of the same name by Michael Lewis. For 10 points each:
Name this 2011 film about Billy Beane and the Oakland Athletics’ attempt to improve their baseball team using statistical analysis.
Their attempt to improve the Athletics’ was based on this branch of empirical analysis in baseball spearheaded by Bill James. It takes its name from the acronym for the Society of American Baseball Research.
This statistical value from Sabermetrics is meant to represent the total contribution of a player to his team based on how many wins a player adds to his team compared to someone else.
Moneyball
Sabermetrics [prompt on “SABR”]
Wins Above Replacement Player [accept “WARP”]
This rule of film editing states that when cutting between two shots of the same subject you need to move the camera by at least the namesake number of degrees. For 10 points each:
Name this numeric rule used to avoid jump cuts.
This New Wave director openly ignored the 30-degree rule and made great use of jump cuts in his film Breathless. He claimed that all you need for a movie is a gun and a girl.
Jean-Luc Godard is from this country, whose other New Wave members include the director of The 400 Blows, François Truffaut.
30-degree rule
Jean-Luc Godard
France
A 10-km long concrete anti-tank defensive line along part of the Swiss border is named for these chocolates due to their distinctive shape, for 10 points each:
Name this Swiss milk chocolate bar, containing honey and almond nougat, typically split into 10 distinctive pentahedrons and sold in triangular, prismoid containers.
This conglomerate owns the Toblerone brand, along with Oreo, Trident, Nabisco, and Cadbury. This corporation was known as Kraft Foods until 2012.
In 2013, Toblerone came under fire for its use of these people to harvest cocoa for its products. In the United States, this class of people cannot officially work until the age of 14.
Toblerone
Mondelēz International
children [accept obvious equivalents]
The title character of this film builds an opera house and the pleasure palace, Xanadu, for the “singer,” Susan Alexander. For 10 points each:
Name this film in which title character loses an election for Governor of New York after an affair and drops a snow globe when he dies.
This person played the role of Charles Kane and directed the film.  He may be best known for doing the radio broadcast of “The War of the Worlds”.
A 20-year-old Welles directed a performance of a “Voodoo” version of this Shakespeare play. For his version of this play he worked with an entirely African-American cast and set it on a fictional Caribbean island.
Citizen Kane
Orson Welles
Macbeth
A series of teasers for this game shows what makes you S.P.E.C.I.A.L. For 10 points each:
Name the most recent installment of this game series where Vault-Tec attempts to aid you in post-nuclear survival.
Fallout 4 was developed by this company who also developed the fifth game of The Elder Scrolls series, Skyrim.
This device serves as an inventory, a map, and a way to check your character’s status in Fallout 4.
Fallout 4
Bethesda Softworks
Pip-Boy
<em>A Charlie Brown Christmas</em> ends with the characters standing around the small tree singing this Christmas carol. For 10 points each:
Name this Christmas carol that claims "Glory to the new-born King; Peace on earth, and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled!”
This all-female group from Ireland, formed in 2004, performs all your favorite Christmas carols. They also record traditional Irish tunes and their most recent album is titled Destiny.
This American singer recorded the popular album Merry Christmas, including the single “All I Want for Christmas is You.” She recently got divorced from Nick Cannon.
“Hark! The Herald Angels Sing”
Celtic Woman
Mariah Carey
This film follows the protagonist Riley’s struggle to adjust to her new life after she and her parents move from the Midwest to San Francisco, for 10 points each:
Name this 2015 Pixar movie about Riley’s emotions: Joy, Sadness, Disgust, Anger, and Fear. Amy Poehler voices Joy, Riley’s chief emotion, in this movie.
The central conflict occurs after sadness taints the core ones of these things, represented in the movie with spheres. These concepts were stored in a labyrinth.
Joy and Sadness receive unexpected help from this figure, Riley’s imaginary friend, an elephant-cat hybrid creature. In the end, this character sacrifices himself in the Memory Dump.
Inside Out
memories
Bing Bong
This 2014 album has 5 singles that have topped the Billboard Hot 100 chart. For 10 points each:
Name this album that Imogen Heap claims a writing credit on for the song “Clean”.
This singer behind 1989 can be seen with Calvin Harris when she’s not writing about her exes.
The music video for this song features a lot of Taylor Swift’s celebrity friends. It’s allegedly about Katy Perry.
1989
Taylor Swift
“Bad Blood”
Name some recent popular horror games. For 10 points each:
Name this indie series created by Scott Cawthon which features multiple animatronics.
This interactive game takes place after the deaths of Hannah and Beth and features a motion-captured acting performance by Hayden Panettiere.
The playable trailer for this series makes the player walk into never-ending loop of entering the same hallway, which slightly changes upon each entrance.
Five Nights at Freddy’s
Until Dawn
Silent Hill
Akiva Schaffer, Jorma Taccone, and Andy Samberg collectively make up the Lonely Island, a comedy group which has done a lot since 2001, for 10 points each:
They worked on the Digital Shorts division for this late-night comedy show. Famous sketches from this show include the Lonely Island’s “YOLO” and “Jack Sparrow”.
This Lonely Island SNL short features a man who “ain’t gonna be part of your system.” He performs the title action on objects including a cellphone, cake, and a hot dog.
As part of YouTube’s comedy week, the Lonely Island released a song about this piece of punctuation. Lyrics include “Yo Angela, who’s the boss; Merkel.”
Saturday Night Live
“Threw It On the Ground”
semicolons
Diane Arbus photographed a “Jewish” one of these figures visiting his parents and a street art campaign declares that one of them “has a posse”. For 10 points each:
Identify these figures that include Eddie Carmel and one whose face appears in posters with the word “OBEY”.
The OBEY Giant series was created by Shepard Fairey, who is most famous for his portrait of this leader in blue, beige, and red with the slogan of “HOPE”.
This magazine used a revised version of Shepard Fairey’s portrait of Barack Obama for their 2008 Person of the Year cover and later commissioned Ai Weiwei for the cover of their issue, The World According to China.
giants [accept sufferers of gigantism or equivalents; prompt on descriptions solely of height]
Barack Obama
Time
Former co-stars Jennette McCurdy and Victoria Justice are “rumored” to be wildly jealous of her success. For 10 points each:
Name this breakout pop star who released the singles “Break Free” and “Love Me Harder” one her sophomore album My Everything.
Ariana Grande licked and spat on these innocent, frosted, cream-filled treats in a store in L.A.
This Ariana Grande album slated for release in 2016 contains her single, “Focus.”
Ariana Grande
doughnuts
Moonlight
Considered one of the founders of American “infotainment,” Jon Stewart has been a major influence in modern mass media. For 10 points each:
Name this former intern of The Daily Show who hosted his namesake Report on Comedy Central for 14 seasons, on which he adopted the role of a conservative pundit.
This man hosted The Daily Show while Stewart directed his film Rosewater, and afterwards landed a position on HBO as the host of Last Week Tonight.
This Indian-American Daily Show intern became famous for his catchphrase, “Treat yo self,” on Parks and Rec. In 2015, he published the book Modern Romance.
Stephen Tyrone Colbert
John William Oliver
Aziz Ishmael Ansari
Identify some things about Snoopy's alter egos
Snoopy becomes this alter ego when he puts on sunglasses and leans against a wall. This alter ego does nothing besides "hanging around the student union," mostly because he "doesn't have wheels."
As the World War I Flying Ace, Snoopy flies his doghouse as the Sopwith Camel to fight this figure. This historical figure was the German flying ace during the war.
As the World Famous Writer, Snoopy uses this seven-word sentence to start his novels. This sentence originally appeared in Edward Bulwer-Lytton's Paul Clifford, followed by an elaborate description of the rain.
Joe Cool
Red Baron [or Manfred Albrecht Freiherr von Richthofen]
"It was a dark and stormy night"
The opening fanfare to this piece was used as the theme for 2001: A Space Odyssey.
Name this tone poem that features sections such as "Sunrise," "Of Science and Learning," and "Song of the Night Wanderer," inspired by a Friedrich Nietzsche essay.
This composer of Also sprach Zarathustra also wrote a tone poem depicting a sick artist, Death and Transfiguration. He included two themes played by the horn and D clarinet in Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks.
Richard Strauss also composed this opera in which Octavian falls in love with Sophie after he is chosen by Baron Ochs as the title figure to deliver a silver engagement flower to Sophie.
Also sprach Zarathustra [or Thus Spoke Zarathustra; or Thus Spake Zarathustra]
Richard Georg Strauss [prompt on "Strauss"]
Der Rosenkavalier [or The Knight of the Rose]
Bonus: “I’m cool dad, that’s my thang. I’m hip, I surf the web, I text. LOL: laugh out loud, OMG: oh my god, WTF: why the face.” For ten points each:
That was a quote from this fictional Ty Burrell character, a childish and competitive real estate agent who is married to Claire and is father to Haley, Alex, and Luke.
Phil Dunphy is a character in this ABC comedy series which follows the story of Jay Pritchett and the families of his two children through mockumentary-style footage.
Jay Pritchett’s wife, Gloria, is played by this Colombian actress who also stars as Madame Desdemona in Machete Kills and provides the voice of Odile Angelou in the 2011 film version of The Smurfs.
Phillip Andrew “Phil” Dunphy [accept either]
Modern Family
Sofía Margarita Vergara Vergara [accept either] &lt;JD&gt;
Bonus: Name some of Matthew Broderick’s famous roles, for ten points each:
In this classic film, Broderick stars as the title character who, along with his girlfriend Sloane and friend Cameron, deceives his parents and Edward Rooney to explore downtown Chicago.
Broderick also played Colonel Robert Shaw in this movie depicting the 54th Massachusetts and their assault on Fort Wagner. In one scene, he rips his paycheck when he finds out the black soldiers were getting unequal pay.
Broderick starred as this character from the Mel Brooks musical The Producers. This character schemes with his friend Max Bialystock to raise two millions dollars, but later ditches him for his love, Ulla.
Ferris Bueller’s Day Off
Glory
Leopold “Leo” Bloom [accept any part] &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: Despite contracting a stomach virus, this man scored 38 points in Game 5 of the 1997 NBA Finals en route to his fifth NBA Championship. For ten points each:
Identify this former player for the Chicago Bulls, now owner of the Charlotte Bobcats, who has won six NBA Championships and is generally considered the greatest basketball player of all time.
This man, known for his staunch defense and rebounding, won three championships with Michael Jordan after leaving the Pistons. He recently visited Kim Jong-un, his “friend for life,” and plans to train the North Korean team.
The Bulls clashed in the 1997 Eastern Conference Finals against a Pacers team led by this man, known for his 3-point shooting and miracle feat of scoring 8 points in 8.9 seconds, leading to a 107-105 win over the Knicks.
Michael Jeffrey Jordan [prompt on “MJ” or “Air Jordan” or “His Airness”]
Dennis Keith Rodman [prompt on “The Worm”]
Reginald Wayne “Reggie” Miller &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: Despite having to travel over 1000 miles in wind chill of negative 100 <sup>o</sup>F, over fifty competitors enter this competition each year. For ten points each,
Name this annual race across Alaska that features mushers and their team of sled dogs.
The Iditarod officially runs from Willow to Nome, but the ceremonial start is in this city along Alaska’s southern coast, the state’s most populous.
Among this family of Iditarod racers is Mitch, the 2012 and oldest ever race winner, as well as his son Dan, the 2013 and youngest ever race winner.
Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race
Municipality of Anchorage
the Seavey family [accept Dan Seavey, Mitch Seavey, and/or Dallas Seavey] &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: Some movies wouldn’t be complete without their signature quote, so identify some for ten points each.
In Star Wars Episode IV, Han Solo says this famous line to Luke Skywalker prior to the attack on the Death Star. It is also featured several times in conversations between Obi-Wan and Anakin.
In Apocalypse Now, Lieutenant Kilgore says this line as he kneels down to his soldiers, following it by exclaiming that the “gasoline smell, the whole hill. Smelled like victory.”
In Citizen Kane, this is the dying word of Charles Foster Kane, which remains a mystery to reporter Jerry Thompson, but is revealed to the audience as the name of the sled from Kane’s childhood.
“May the Force be with you”
“I love the smell of napalm in the morning”
“Rosebud” &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: This woman is “the best singer in Tasmania with teeth” and has “wrestled crocodiles and dingoes simultaneously.” For ten points each:
Name this character portrayed by Rebel Wilson who screams, “I’ve been shot” after getting hit by flying Mexican food. She also specializes in “mermaid dancing” and “horizontal running.”
Fat Amy is a character from this movie featuring an a cappella competition between the Treblemakers and the Barden Bellas, who are trying to regain popularity after senior member Aubrey Posen vomited on stage.
Beca Mitchell, the protagonist, is portrayed by this actor, who also starred in the Twilight sagas and Scott Pilgrim vs. The World. Her rendition of the song “Cups” in Pitch Perfect gained nationwide acclaim.
Amy “Fat Amy” Patricia [accept any part]
Pitch Perfect
Anna Kendrick &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: Although his performance of “Isn’t She Lovely” for <em>The X Factor</em> auditions ended in failure, he would later join and name the group he is best known for. For ten points each:
Identify this English singer who had a tumultuous relationship with Taylor Swift, but still has outrageously gorgeous curls.
Harry Styles is the youngest member of the band One Direction, which was featured in this 2013 summer film, produced by Morgan Spurlock, that documented their daily lives and path to success.
Harry Styles is also quite popular on this social media app owned by Twitter that allows users to post short video clips up to 6 seconds long. Cat videos are also very popular on this app.
Harry Edward Styles
One Direction: This is Us [prompt on “1D3D”]
Vine &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: In the World Series, this man batted an impressive .688 while his teammates only combined for .169, thus earning him the title of World Series MVP. For ten points each:
Name this American League slugger who holds records in hits, home runs, and RBIs by a designated hitter.
David Ortiz plays for this baseball team that had 93 losses in 2012 before winning the World Series in 2013. They play home games at Fenway Park and their logo is a pair of stockings.
This rookie sensation for the St. Louis Cardinals, winner of the 2013 NLCS MVP award, had an ERA of only 1.00 through 27 innings before giving up six runs in Game 6.
David Américo Ortiz Arias [accept Big Papi; or Señor Octubre; or Cooperstown]
Boston Red Sox [accept either part]
Michael Joseph Wacha &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: The music video features the band walking through a dusty wasteland with broken houses, after which they bury a shiny stone in the ground. For ten points each:
Name this song in which the singer is “packing my bags and giving the academy a rain check,” before stating “that I’m never changing who I am.”
“It’s Time” is a song by this American rock band, who also performed songs such as “Demons” and “Radioactive,” the latter of which was named “the biggest rock hit of the year” by Rolling Stone.
This man, the lead vocalist for Imagine Dragons, founded the band with Wayne Sermon and Andrew Tolman after hearing the phrase, “Don't do music because you want to do music—do music if you have to do music.”
“It’s Time”
Imagine Dragons
Daniel Coulter “Dan” Reynolds &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: This film premiered at the 2013 Telluride Film Festival and was praised for its directing under Steve McQueen and acting by its cast, which included Michael Fassbender and Benedict Cumberbatch. For ten points each:
Identify this historical drama film based off of the eponymous autobiography of Solomon Northup, who was portrayed by Chiwetel Ejiofor.
Half Slave, Half Free, another film based off of Northup’s autobiography, was directed by this African American. He is better known for directing Shaft, a movie about the title detective’s work in Harlem among Italian mobs.
In 12 Years a Slave, this actor plays Samuel Bass, a white carpenter who helps Northup contact his wife. This actor also starred in the Ocean’s trilogy, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, and Moneyball.
12 Years a Slave
Gordon Roger Alexander Buchanan Parks
William Bradley “Brad” Pitt &lt;EC&gt;
Bonus: This artist is dressed in all pink, ‘cept his gator shoes, those are green. For ten points each:
Name this Seattle-born rapper who first broke out in 2012 along with Ryan Lewis for the hit single “Thrift Shop.” His first hit, “And We Danced,” came off of his album, The Unplanned Mixtape.
This was the debut studio album of Macklemore and Ryan Lewis. It reached #1 on iTunes within hours of its release thanks in large part to hit singles such as “Wings” and “Can’t Hold Us.”
This song off of The Heist won a Video Music Award in August for “Best Video With a Social Message” probably because of its message of marriage equality.
Macklemore [accept Ben Haggerty]
The Heist
“Same Love” &lt;SC&gt;
Bonus: He is unable to speak to women without drinking alcohol. For ten points each:
Name this Indian particle astrophysicist played by actor Kunal Nayyar, whose best friend is Howard Wolowitz and whose sister Priya briefly developed a relationship with Leonard Hofstadter.
Raj is a character in this CBS sitcom centering on the Star-Trek fan and theoretical physicist Sheldon Cooper, who is Leonard’s roommate and Penny’s neighbor.
This neuroscientist in The Big Bang Theory develops a “Relationship Agreement” with Sheldon Cooper. She enthusiastically serves as Bernadette’s Maid of Honor during her marriage to Howard.
Dr. Rajesh Ramayan “Raj” Koothrappali [accept any underlined portion]
The Big Bang Theory
Dr. Amy Farrah Fowler [accept either underlined portion] &lt;KT&gt;
Bonus: One of this sport’s tournaments, played at Augusta National on the first weekend in April, is known as The Masters. For ten points each:
Name this sport played by Tom Watson, Phil Mickelson, and Tiger Woods.
This man won the 2013 Masters after a two-hole playoff to beat Angel Cabrera. He became the first Australian player to win the Masters after he birdied hole 10 in the playoff.
Scott, like all Masters winners, donned this colorful clothing item, worn by members of Augusta National. It is traditionally awarded to the winner of the Masters by the previous year’s winner.
golf
Adam Derek Scott
Green Jacket &lt;SC&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about World War II films, for ten points each:
This 1998 Steven Spielberg film sees Tom Hanks play Captain John Miller, who leads his squad in search for the title character. It begins with a historically accurate storming of the beaches at Normandy.
Ken Watanabe plays General Kuribayashi in this director’s Letters from Iwo Jima. This director’s other films include Mystic River and Gran Torino.
The firebombing of Kobe features prominently in this terribly depressing Studio Ghibli animated film, which sees Seita die of malnutrition after his sister Setsuko builds the title construct in an abandoned bomb shelter.
Saving Private Ryan
Clint Eastwood
Grave of the Fireflies [or Hotaru no haka] &lt;JD&gt;
Bonus: This television series is based on the works of forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs. For ten points each:
Name this TV series starring Emily Deschanel as Dr. Temperance Brennan, a forensic anthropologist at the Jeffersonian who solves murder cases by studying the title remains.
Bones is broadcasted on this television network that also has shows such as New Girl, Sleepy Hollow, Family Guy, and Glee.
This Special Agent, Dr. Brennan’s partner, works for the FBI and does not favor the scientific procedures of “squints.” He has a daughter named Christine with Dr. Brennan, and marries her in Season 9 after the death of Pelant.
Bones
Fox network
Seeley Joseph Booth [accept either part; but do NOT accept “Jared Booth”] &lt;EC&gt;
Sean Payton is the coach for this NFC South team led by quarterback Drew Brees. For 10 points each:
Name this team that plays in the Mercedes-Benz Superdome and is known for their fans' expression, "Who Dat?"
This tight end for the Saints played basketball in college. In 2011, he broke the receiving yards record for a tight end, only to have his record broken later that day by Rob Gronkowski.
This former safety for the New Orleans Saints also played for the Packers and Vikings. He now works as an analyst in the NFL Network.
New Orleans Saints [accept either]
Jimmy Graham
Darren Sharper
The chorus of one song by this artist begins "Baby be the class clown/ I'll be the beauty queen in tears." For 10 points each:
Name this sixteen-year-old artist from New Zealand, whose singles include "Tennis Court" and one that begins "I've never seen a diamond in the flesh."
That single by Lorde is this song that advocates against lavish lifestyles in its chorus: "that kind of luxe just ain't for us / we crave a different kind of buzz."
"Tennis Court" and "Royals" appear in this debut album by Lorde.
Lorde (accept Ella Yelich-O'Connor)
"Royals"
Pure Heroine
The Fox network has cancelled some of the best TV shows of all time. Name three of them, for 10 points each:
Starring Nathan Fillion and Morena Baccarin, this space western epic acquired so much post-cancellation support that its story was allowed to continue in the feature film Serenity.
Centering around the exploits of the dysfunctional Bluth family, new episodes of this comedy starring Jason Bateman will start airing on Netflix in the spring of 2013, seven years after it was originally cancelled by Fox.
Fox doomed this quirky 2004 comedy-drama by abruptly changing its timeslot and airing episodes out of order. On this show the gift shop clerk Jaye Taylor has conversations with animal figurines who inspire her to help the needy.
Firefly
Arrested Development
Wonderfalls
For 10 points each, answer some questions about people who find themselves separated by bodies of water.
This band's "Transatlanticism", about a relationship separated by the Atlantic, has a chorus of "I need you so much closer." Other songs by them include "I Will Possess Your Heart" and "I Will Follow You Into the Dark."
In The Motorcycle Diaries, this character swims across the Amazon River to be with some lepers on his birthday. His visage is commonly seen on T-shirts.
This musician, nicknamed "The Boss", sang about water crossings in "Meeting Across the River" and "Jungeland." He is also famous for songs like "Born to Run" and "Thunder Road", as well for his association with the E Street Band.
Death Cab For Cutie
Ernesto "Che" Guevera
Bruce Springsteen
Incarnations of this superhero have included Jay Garrick and Barry Allen. For 10 points each:
Name this "Scarlet Speedster" from the DC Comics universe who posses super-speed and has a lightning bolt insignia.
This third incarnation of the Flash took over after Barry Allen was killed during the Crisis on Infinite Earths. He was the nephew of Barry's wife Iris.
This enemy of the Flash uses a freeze-ray type gun to fight. His real name is Leonard Snart.
Flash
Wally West
Captain Cold
This NBA player's beard has inspired multiple Facebook and Twitter accounts, for 10 points each:
Name this shooting guard who was drafted out of Arizona State in 2009 by his former team, but now plays alongside Jeremy Lin in Houston.
Harden was traded to the Houston Rockets from this team, which reached the 2012 NBA Finals behind Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook.
Harden won this national award in 2012, given to the most important player not on a starting NBA roster. Other recent winners of this award include the Spurs' Manu Ginobili and the Mavericks' Jason Terry.
James Harden
Oklahoma City Thunder [accept either or both underlined answers; do not accept or prompt on Seattle Supersonics]
NBA Sixth Man of the Year [prompt on Sixth Man]
For 10 points each, name these video games we've been waiting a long time for:
This title became for a long time the most infamous example of vaporware, with its previous "3D" installation coming out in 1996. It was finally released in 2011, allowing its muscle-toting, bubblegum chewing action figure to see the light of day once again.
After Episode 2 of the second installment in this series came out, the lack of any information about the next installment featuring Gordon Freeman helped lead to a joke that Valve can't count to three.
The sequel to this 2003 Ubisoft title was delayed by lead designer Michel Ancel's taking time off to work on Rayman Origins. The latest teaser video shows its characters Jade and Pey'j stranded on a road.
Duke Nukem Forever
Half-Life
Beyond Good &amp; Evil
This show stars Kevin Spacey as House Majority Whip Frank Underwood. For 10 points each:
Name this online series focusing on the efforts of Underwood to undermine the government after getting denied for Secretary of State.
House of Cards airs exclusively on this online streaming site, that controversially split its rental and streaming services.
House of Cards was produced for Netflix by this director of The Social Network and Se7en. He also directed a movie about soap salesman Tyler Durden, Fight Club.
House of Cards
netflix.com
David Fincher
This character listens to her father's last heartbeat after negotiating a peace with the Aurochs. For 10 points each:
Name this protagonist of a 2012 indie film played by Quvenzhane Wallis who lives in "The Bathtub" with her father Wink.
Hushpuppy is the main character of this Benh Zeitlin film set on a Louisiana island devastated by a hurricane. Zeitlin and Wallis received Academy Award nominations for their work in this film.
Wallis is the youngest ever nominee for Best Actress. Jessica Tandy, the oldest to receive the award, won for this film, in which she is driven around by the Morgan Freeman-played Hoke Colburn.
Hushpuppy
Beasts of the Southern Wild
Driving Miss Daisy
Bonus: This character encourages licking your palms to pretend to be sick. For ten points each:
Identify this character who takes a ‘day off’ in a John Hughes film, skipping school with his friends Cameron and Sloane.
At the climax of the film, Cameron causes a red one of these objects owned by his father to go flying out the window and land broken on the ground.
To get into the restaurant Chez Quis, Ferris pretends to be Abe Froman, Chicago’s king of this commodity.
Ferris Bueller (accept either)
Ferrari (accept car)
Sausage &lt;CC&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about a popular series of books made into an HBO television series, for ten points each:
This first novel in “A Song of Ice and Fire” details the reign and death of King Robert I Baratheon.
Lord Eddard Stark is stabbed non-fatally by this Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, the eldest son of Tywin and incestuous lover of Cersei.
Jaime Lannister is often called “Kingslayer” for his brutal murder and betrayal of this “Mad King”.
A Game of Thrones
Jaime Lannister (prompt on Lannister)
Aerys II Targaryen (prompt on Targaryen) &lt;CC&gt;
Bonus: Name some Rob Reiner films, for ten points each.
“Wuv, twoo wuv” is the subject of this comedic film in which Wesley works with Inigo Montoya to rescue Buttercup from Prince Humperdink.
This Reiner film focuses on the murder of PFC William Santiago under a “code red” ordered by Colonel Jessep, who informs Kaffee that he “can’t handle the truth.”
This Reiner adaptation of a Stephen King novella follows Gordie, Chris, Teddy, and Vern in their quest to find the body of Ray Brower.
The Princess Bride
A Few Good Men
Stand By Me &lt;CC&gt;
Bonus: Name some late-night comedy hosts, for ten points each:
This man got his start on the Daily Show, and now hosts his own namesake Report [“ruh-PORE”]on Comedy Central, a parody of Fox News opinion shows.
Colbert’s best friend for six months was this man, who was part of the cast of SNL before getting his own late-night show on NBC. The house band for his show is The Roots.
This other late-night host got his start on NBC with his own show, but was never given the Tonight Show spot, so he went to CBS to compete with Jay Leno. He had to apologize in 2009 after making jokes about Sarah Palin’s daughter.
Stephen Colbert
Jimmy Fallon
David Letterman &lt;DA&gt;
Bonus: Male fans of this TV show are referred to as bronies. For ten points each:
Identify this television series, the first episode of which sees Twilight Sparkle and her friends unite the Elements of Harmony to save Equestria from Nightmare Moon.
This cyan-colored pegasus pony is known for her daring flight stunts and seeks to join an elite group of pony flyers called the “Wonderbolts”. She is the only pony known to have successfully completed a “sonic rainboom.”
In the first episode of Season Two, the ponies must use the Elements of Harmony again, in order to defeat this draconequus voiced by John de Lancie.
My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic
Rainbow Dash
Discord &lt;MiP&gt;
Bonus: Characters in this TV show have visited the CDC, an untouched farm, and an abandoned prison. For ten points each:
Name this show in which Rick Grimes leads a group on the run from zombies in northern Georgia.
This network broadcasts The Walking Dead, Mad Men, and Breaking Bad.
This character on The Walking Dead is the son of Rick and has to kill his mother Lori so she does not turn into a walker after dying in childbirth.
The Walking Dead
AMC (accept American Movie Classics)
Carl Grimes &lt;DA&gt;
Bonus: This character was partially inspired by William Randolph Hearst. For ten points each:
Identify this media magnate, the title character of the film in which he appears, who dies while dropping a snowglobe and saying the word “Rosebud.”
Citizen Kane was directed by this man, who also played the title role. He also famously read The War of the Worlds on the radio, inciting a small panic.
After divorcing Emily, Kane marries this woman, whom he unsuccessfully tries to make into an opera singer. In a famous scene, he picks up a snowglobe after trashing her room.
Citizen Kane (or Charles Foster Kane)
Orson Welles
Susan Alexander (accept either) &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about PC gaming, for ten points each:
This indie game developed by Mojang Inc. was created by Markus Persson, also known as Notch. It features one by one meter blocks to form the gameplay world.
This battle arena game, developed by Riot Games, features a spawn point called the “spawning pool” and includes such features as Nexuses and Turrets.
This Valve software allows users to download games directly from the internet. It was developed alongside Half-Life 2.
Minecraft
League of Legends (or LOL)
Steam &lt;MM&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about sports news, for ten points each:
This daily program is frequently anchored by Kevin Negandhi and Hannah Storm and features the famous segment, “The Top 10.”
This network home to SportsCenter frequently airs Mike and Mike in the Morning and SportsNation.
This ESPN anchor co-hosts “First Take” along with Skip Bayless.  He famously asserted that Scottie Pippen claiming LeBron James was better than Michael Jordan was “blasphemous, asinine, stupid, foolish, ridiculous.”
SportsCenter
ESPN (or Entertainment and Sports Programming Network)
Steven A. Smith &lt;SC&gt;
Bonus: The first mixtape released by this artist after he changed his stage name was <em>T.R.U. REALigion</em>. For ten points each:
Identify this rapper, who appeared in “No Lie”  along with Drake where he says that he is “smoking on that gas.” His current stage name is derived from his trademark jewelry, and he formed Playaz Circle with his friend Dolla Boy.
2 chainz raps alongside this performer in “Birthday Song”.  He famously interrupted Taylor Swift at the Video Music Awards and to note that “Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time”.
Kanye West released this popular song in 2005 in his album Late Registration, in which he repeats “nothin ever promised tomorrow today” after the title line.
2 chainz (accept Tauheed Epps or Tity Boi)
Kanye West (accept either underlined name)
Heard ‘Em Say &lt;MiP+IK&gt;
Bonus: This ship’s captain doesn’t like to be told the odds.  For ten points each:
Identify this spaceship, once owned by Lando Calrissian. It was able to make the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs.
This captain of the Falcon is inseparable from his Wookie friend Chewbacca, the ship’s first mate. In the original Star Wars movie, this smuggler played by Harrison Ford shot Greedo first.
Han Solo won the Falcon in the final round of a tournament of this card game, when Lando was unable to complete his Idiot’s Array. Lando had earlier won the rights to Cloud City by playing it.
The Millenium Falcon
Han Solo (accept either)
Sabacc (prompt on Jhabacc) &lt;MiP&gt;
Bonus: This comedy duo got their start on <em>MADtv</em> with a <em>Deal or No Deal</em> spoof. For ten points each:
Name this show on Comedy Central in which two black comedians perform skits like Dueling Hats, Substitute Teacher, and Pizza Order.
Key and Peele have also done multiple skits which mention the teeth of these animals, a talking one of which is voiced by Eddie Murphy in Shrek.
Key and Peele have done multiple skits involving this politician, showing him doing drugs in college and getting help from his anger translator Luther while calling his wife Michelle.
Key and Peele
donkey
Barack Obama &lt;DA&gt;
Bonus: Current players of this position include the Patriots’ Stephen Gostkowski and the Bears’ Robbie Gould. For ten points each:
Identify this position in American football, which is responsible for getting a ball through the uprights to make a field goal or get the extra point after a touchdown.
This kicker made the tying and winning field goals for the Patriots in the “Tuck Rule Game,” and later made the winning kicks in Super Bowls XXXVI (36) and XXXVIII (38). He now plays for the Colts.
This kicker for the San Francisco 49ers is tied for the longest field goal record with Dempsey, Elam, and Janikowski. He’s played in both of the last two tie games, missing an OT field goal against the Rams in November.
placekicker
Adam Vinatieri
David Akers &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Lindsay Lohan used to be in a lot of movies. Name some, for ten points each:
This teen comedy explained the life of Cady Heron and her adventures with the Regina-led Plastics, who wear pink on Wednesdays.
Lindsay Lohan plays both of the twins Hallie and Annie who attempt to bring their divorced mother and father back together in this remake of a 1961 film.
This film stars Lohan as a racecar driver of a certain sentient Volkswagen Beetle, and features cameo appearances by Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Jeff Gordon.
Mean Girls
The Parent Trap
Herbie: Fully Loaded &lt;CC&gt;
Bonus: Give the following about McDonald’s in the news, for ten points each:
In 2010, led by Eric Mar, this California city banned the giving of toys along with Happy Meals. It later unrelatedly tried to ban circumcision, but the measure never made it onto the ballot.
McDonald’s still hasn’t re-opened a franchise in this country, due to the low purchasing power of the krona. This nation is governed by the Althing.
In this 2004 documentary, Morgan Spurlock examined the effects of eating at McDonald’s three times a day for over a month.
San Francisco
Iceland
Super Size Me &lt;MiP&gt;
Bonus: This song was written as a tribute to its band’s previous lead singer, Bon Scott. For ten points each:
Name this song, famous for its intro guitar riff, whose singer has “hit the sack” and is “glad” since he’s “been too long”.
Back in Black is a song by this Australian band, famous for other songs such as Shoot to Thrill and Highway to Hell.
The Scottish-born lead guitarist co-founded AC/DC with his older brother Malcolm. He is famous for his schoolboy uniform and “duck-walk.”
Back in Black
AC/DC
Angus Young (Prompt on Young) &lt;SK&gt;
Bonus: Answer some questions about a popular PBS series, for ten points each:
This television series centers around the title fictional estate set in Yorkshire, England and focuses on the aristocratic Crawley family and their servants.
This third cousin of the Earl becomes the heir presumptive to the estate after the deaths of the other heirs on the RMS Titanic. He later marries Mary.
The Earl’s mother, the Dowager Countess, is played by this actress, also notable for her role as McGonagall in the Harry Potter films.
Downton Abbey
Matthew Crawley
Dame Maggie Smith &lt;CC&gt;
[missing]
 This man got his start on the Daily Show, and now hosts his own namesake Report ["ruh-PORE"]on Comedy Central, a parody of Fox News opinion shows.
 Colbert's best friend for six months was this man, who was part of the cast of SNL before getting his own late-night show on NBC. The house band for his show is The Roots.
 This other late-night host got his start on NBC with his own show, but was never given the Tonight Show spot, so he went to CBS to compete with Jay Leno. He had to apologize in 2009 after making jokes about Sarah Palin's daughter.
 Stephen Colbert
 Jimmy Fallon
 David Letterman
[missing]
 Name this song, famous for its intro guitar riff, whose singer has "hit the sack" and is "glad" since he's "been too long".
 Back in Black is a song by this Australian band, famous for other songs such as Shoot to Thrill and Highway to Hell.
 The Scottish-born lead guitarist co-founded AC/DC with his older brother Malcolm. He is famous for his schoolboy uniform and "duck-walk."
 Back in Black
 AC/DC
 Angus Young (Prompt on Young)
[missing]
 Name this show in which Rick Grimes leads a group on the run from zombies in northern Georgia.
 This network broadcasts The Walking Dead, Mad Men, and Breaking Bad.
 This character on The Walking Dead is the son of Rick and has to kill his mother Lori so she does not turn into a walker after dying in childbirth.
 The Walking Dead
 AMC (accept American Movie Classics)
 Carl Grimes
[missing]
 This television series centers around the title fictional estate set in Yorkshire, England and focuses on the aristocratic Crawley family and their servants.
 This third cousin of the Earl becomes the heir presumptive to the estate after the deaths of the other heirs on the RMS Titanic. He later marries Mary.
 The Earl's mother, the Dowager Countess, is played by this actress, also notable for her role as McGonagall in the Harry Potter films.
Answer: Downton Abbey
Answer: Matthew Crawley
Answer: Dame Maggie Smith
[missing]
 Identify this television series, the first episode of which sees Twilight Sparkle and her friends unite the Elements of Harmony to save Equestria from Nightmare Moon.
 This cyan-colored pegasus pony is known for her daring flight stunts and seeks to join an elite group of pony flyers called the "Wonderbolts". She is the only pony known to have successfully completed a "sonic rainboom."
 In the first episode of Season Two, the ponies must use the Elements of Harmony again, in order to defeat this draconequus voiced by John de Lancie.
 My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic
 Rainbow Dash
 Discord
[missing]
 In 2010, led by Eric Mar, this California city banned the giving of toys along with Happy Meals. It later unrelatedly tried to ban circumcision, but the measure never made it onto the ballot.
 McDonald's still hasn't re-opened a franchise in this country, due to the low purchasing power of the krona. This nation is governed by the Althing.
 In this 2004 documentary, Morgan Spurlock examined the effects of eating at McDonald's three times a day for over a month.
 San Francisco
 Iceland
 Super Size Me
[missing]
 This teen comedy explained the life of Cady Heron and her adventures with the Regina-led Plastics, who wear pink on Wednesdays.
 Lindsay Lohan plays both of the twins Hallie and Annie who attempt to bring their divorced mother and father back together in this remake of a 1961 film.
 This film stars Lohan as a racecar driver of a certain sentient Volkswagen Beetle, and features cameo appearances by Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Jeff Gordon.
Answer: Mean Girls
Answer: The Parent Trap
Answer: Herbie: Fully Loaded
[missing]
 Identify this position in American football, which is responsible for getting a ball through the uprights to make a field goal or get the extra point after a touchdown.
 This kicker made the tying and winning field goals for the Patriots in the "Tuck Rule Game," and later made the winning kicks in Super Bowls XXXVI (36) and XXXVIII (38). He now plays for the Colts.
 This kicker for the San Francisco 49ers is tied for the longest field goal record with Dempsey, Elam, and Janikowski. He's played in both of the last two tie games, missing an OT field goal against the Rams in November.
 placekicker
 Adam Vinatieri
 David Akers
[missing]
 Name this show on Comedy Central in which two black comedians perform skits like Dueling Hats, Substitute Teacher, and Pizza Order.
 Key and Peele have also done multiple skits which mention the teeth of these animals, a talking one of which is voiced by Eddie Murphy in Shrek.
 Key and Peele have done multiple skits involving this politician, showing him doing drugs in college and getting help from his anger translator Luther while calling his wife Michelle.
 Key and Peele
 donkey
 Barack Obama
[missing]
 Identify this character who takes a 'day off' in a John Hughes film, skipping school with his friends Cameron and Sloane.
 At the climax of the film, Cameron causes a red one of these objects owned by his father to go flying out the window and land broken on the ground.
 To get into the restaurant Chez Quis, Ferris pretends to be Abe Froman, Chicago's king of this commodity.
Answer: Ferris Bueller (accept either)
Answer: Ferrari (accept car)
Answer: Sausage
[missing]
 Identify this spaceship, once owned by Lando Calrissian. It was able to make the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs.
 This captain of the Falcon is inseparable from his Wookie friend Chewbacca, the ship's first mate. In the original Star Wars movie, this smuggler played by Harrison Ford shot Greedo first.
 Han Solo won the Falcon in the final round of a tournament of this card game, when Lando was unable to complete his Idiot's Array. Lando had earlier won the rights to Cloud City by playing it.
 The Millenium Falcon
 Han Solo (accept either)
 Sabacc (prompt on Jhabacc)
[missing]
 Identify this rapper, who appeared in "No Lie"  along with Drake where he says that he is "smoking on that gas." His current stage name is derived from his trademark jewelry, and he formed Playaz Circle with his friend Dolla Boy.
 2 chainz raps alongside this performer in "Birthday Song".  He famously interrupted Taylor Swift at the Video Music Awards and to note that "Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time".
 Kanye West released this popular song in 2005 in his album Late Registration, in which he repeats "nothin ever promised tomorrow today" after the title line.
 2 chainz (accept Tauheed Epps or Tity Boi)
 Kanye West (accept either underlined name)
 Heard 'Em Say
[missing]
 Name this song in which the main artist claims that their crazy relationship is "what happens when a tornado meets a volcano," but never seems to tell the truth.
 This rapper collaborated with Rihanna on "Love the Way You Lie." His latest album, Recovery, features hit singles such as "Not Afraid," and one of his most successful albums was 1999's The Slim Shady LP.
 Eminem began his acting career with this 2002 hip hop drama, where he stars as an aspiring rapper named "B-Rabbit." Eminem won an Academy Award for singing "Lose Yourself" in this movie.
 "Love the Way You Lie"
 Eminem (accept Marshall Bruce Mathers III)
 8 Mile
[missing]
 This indie game developed by Mojang Inc. was created by Markus Persson, also known as Notch. It features one by one meter blocks to form the gameplay world.
 This battle arena game, developed by Riot Games, features a spawn point called the "spawning pool" and includes such features as Nexuses and Turrets.
 This Valve software allows users to download games directly from the internet. It was developed alongside Half-Life 2.
Answer: Minecraft
Answer: League of Legends (or LOL)
Answer: Steam
[missing]
 Identify this media magnate, the title character of the film in which he appears, who dies while dropping a snowglobe and saying the word "Rosebud."
 Citizen Kane was directed by this man, who also played the title role. He also famously read The War of the Worlds on the radio, inciting a small panic.
 After divorcing Emily, Kane marries this woman, whom he unsuccessfully tries to make into an opera singer. In a famous scene, he picks up a snowglobe after trashing her room.
 Citizen Kane (or Charles Foster Kane)
 Orson Welles
 Susan Alexander (accept either)
Winners of past seasons of this show include Michael Wray and Danny Veltri.  For 10 points each:
Name this competitive cooking show whose foremost personalities include Jean-Philippe and host Gordon Ramsay.
Hell's Kitchen airs on this network whose other shows include 24, House, and American Idol.
On Hell's Kitchen, Ramsay orders failed contestants to perform this action and leave Hell's Kitchen.
Hell's Kitchen
Fox
"Take Your Jacket Off" [accept equivalents]
In one game, this character is able to transform into the lead guitarist of the Indigo-Gos, Mikau the Zora.  For 10 points each: 
Name this protagonist of Majora's Mask, Twilight Princess, and other games in the Legend of Zelda series.
In Twilight Princess, Link is accompanied by this imp.  The game's title character, she sits on Link's back while he is in wolf form.
Midna's helmet is a piece of this weapon.  Once in possession of all the pieces, she uses it to obliterate the usurper king Zant.
Link
Midna
Fused Shadow
After the team he managed qualified for the 2010 World Cup, this man told members of the press to "suck it, and keep on sucking it."  For 10 points each: 
Name this captain of the 1986 World Cup champion team who scored a goal known as the "Goal of the Century" in a quarterfinal against England.
Maradona captained and managed the team from this country who lost 4-0 to Germany in a 2010 quarterfinal and whose recent players include forward Lionel Messi.
Just prior to the "Goal of the Century", Maradona scored an illegal yet unpenalized goal known by this nickname.  Messi replicated the play in a 2007 game against Spain.
Diego Maradona
Argentina
"Hand of God"
