The tyrannical “master builder” Robert Moses long held urban planning power in this city. For 10 points each:
Name this city, in which activists fought against a Moses plan to extend Fifth Avenue. That plan would have provided access to the never-built Lower Manhattan Expressway but destroyed Washington Square Park.
This activist and urban theorist who led the fight against Robert Moses is best known for her magnum opus “The Death and Life of Great American Cities,” which advocates for sidewalks and parks.
Jacobs lived in and fought for this Manhattan neighborhood which is known for being bohemian and contains Washington Square Park. A weekly newspaper founded in this neighborhood was named for its “Voice.”
New York City [or NYC]
Jane Jacobs
Greenwich Village [prompt on the Village or the Village Voice] &lt;Sociology — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This character is arrested at Stonehenge after killing the libertine Alec, who had raped her. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who marries Angel Clare after discovering that she might be descended from a noble family.
This author wrote Tess of the d’Urbervilles. Many novels by this author, such as Far From the Madding Crowd and The Mayor of Casterbridge, are set in the fictional region of Wessex.
Thomas Hardy also wrote this novel, in which the title stonemason’s son Little Father Time hangs himself and his siblings. In this novel, Sue Bridehead abandons her lover for Mr. Philoston after she suffers a miscarriage.
Tess [or Tess of the d’Urbervilles or Tess d’Urberville or Tess Durbeyfield]
Thomas Hardy
Jude the Obscure &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This poem laments a man who was “my north, my south, my east and west / My working week and my Sunday rest.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, which requests “aeroplanes” to write “the message ‘He is Dead.’” This poem begins with a command to “Stop all the clocks.”
“Funeral Blues” is a poem by this author. This author remarked that his line “we must love one another or die” was “a damned lie” and later changed it to “we must love one another and die.”
In “September 1, 1939,” Auden wrote that he is “composed… of Eros and of” this substance. In the King James Bible, God tells Adam that this substance “thou art, and unto” this substance “shalt thou return.”
“Funeral Blues”
W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
dust &lt;Poetry — Iyer/Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
This essay illustrates that relationships between women are portrayed simplistically in literature with the example sentence “Chloe liked Olivia.” For 10 points each:
Name this extended essay. It also imagines Shakespeare’s equally talented sister Judith being silenced because of her gender.
“A Room of One’s Own” was written by this modernist author. This author described Clarissa’s attempt to host a party in Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf used this literary technique in novels like Mrs. Dalloway, To the Lighthouse, and The Waves. It is characterized by narration that comes directly from a character’s thoughts, often ignoring punctuation and grammar.
“A Room of One’s Own”
Virginia Woolf
stream of consciousness &lt;Essay — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
In this play, the servant Dorine learns that Mariane is supposed to marry the title character. For 10 points each:
Name this farce. The title character of this play tries to seduce Orgon’s wife Elmire, but later is arrested after trying to arrest Orgon.
This French playwright wrote Tartuffe. He died after collapsing while performing his play The Imaginary Invalid.
In this other Molière play, Arnolphe tries to get Agnès to marry him, but a series of misunderstandings results in her marrying Horace, with whom she is in love.
Tartuffe [or Tartuffe, or The Impostor, or The Hypocrite]
Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
The School for Wives &lt;Drama — Venkateswaran&gt; [Edited]
A character this play tries to remove his son from the high school football team due to the racism he experienced while playing baseball in the Negro Leagues. For 10 points each:
Name this play about the black garbage truck driver Troy Maxson.
Troy’s mentally handicapped brother Gabe, who believes he is actually the archangel Gabriel, carries around this object for most of the play. At the play’s end, Gabe thrice tries to use this object to open the gates of Heaven.
Fences was written by this author, who explored the African-American experience throughout the 20th century in his Pittsburgh Cycle.
Fences
his trumpet [prompt on horn or musical instrument]
August Wilson &lt;Drama — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This text begins by asserting that it will not present “any repetition of those sentiments…which were last night so disgusting to you.” For 10 points each:
Name this text, in which its author justifies his disdain for Mr. Wickham and apologizes for misleading Mr. Bingley. This text is read midway through a novel, the day after an awkward marriage proposal.
Elizabeth Bennet realizes she was unfairly prejudiced against Mr. Darcy after reading his letter in this author’s novel Pride and Prejudice.
Elizabeth is primarily prejudiced against Mr. Darcy because she thinks he steered Mr. Bingley away from a relationship with this character. This naïve, eldest sister of the Bennet family does marry Mr. Bingley by the novel’s end.
Mr. Darcy’s letter to Elizabeth Bennet [or Fitzwilliam’s letter to Elizabeth Bennet; prompt on letter]
Jane Austen
Jane Bennet &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
This collection’s version of “The Chimney Sweeper” describes a boy “clothed… in clothes of death,” contrasting with a more cheerful version about little Tom Dacre. For 10 points each:
Name this collection. This collection’s poem “The Tyger” is often contrasted with a poem from an earlier collection, “The Lamb.”
This mystic English poet wrote Songs of Experience to follow his earlier collection, Songs of Innocence.
This poem from Songs of Experience describes an “invisible worm” that “flies in the night” and whose “dark secret love / Does thy life destroy.”
Songs of Experience [prompt on Songs of Innocence and of Experience; do NOT accept or prompt on “Songs of Innocence”]
William Blake
“The Sick Rose” &lt;Poetry — Iyer&gt; [Ed. French]
The gambling habits of the title characters of this novel are described as “one obsessive, one compulsive.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel. In this novel, one of the two title characters bets the other that he cannot transport a glass church to a town four hundred kilometers north.
The author of Oscar and Lucinda, Peter Carey, is from this country. This country is also home to bush poets like Henry Lawson and Banjo Patterson.
Carey’s novel Jack Maggs is an adaptation of this novel by Charles Dickens. In this novel, the pompous Mr. Pumblechook takes credit for Pip’s social climb after Pip meets the escaped convict Abel Magwitch.
Oscar and Lucinda
Australia
Great Expectations &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This author wrote that the title food has “the taste of being strong and free, which means free to make mistakes” in his story “Bear Meat.” For 10 points each:
Name this author. This author recalled exchanging cigarette lighter flints for rations of bread in his story “Cerium,” which he collected alongside stories like “Iron” and “Argon” in The Periodic Table.
“Cerium” is set in this place, whose inhabitants are classified as “drowned” or “saved” in Levi’s memoir If This is a Man. In the novel Night, God is said to be “hanging here from this gallows” in this Nazi concentration camp.
This author evoked the Book of Job in The Trial of God, which is set in the aftermath of a Ukrainian pogrom. He wrote about the Jews of Sighet in Night.
Primo Levi [or Primo Michele Levi]
Auschwitz III-Monowitz
Elie Wiesel [or Eliezer Wiesel] &lt;Short Fiction — Gray&gt; [Ed. French]
A 2019 biography by Ha Jin recounts a legend in which one poet drowned after drunkenly trying to embrace this object. For 10 points each:
Name this object, with which the speaker “drinks alone” in an 8th century poem.
This frequently-drunk Táng dynasty poet wrote “Drinking Alone by Moonlight.”
In China, Li Bai’s most famous poem is this four-line poem in which he raises his head to look at the bright moon and then lowers it, thinking of his home village.
the moon [or yuèliàng; accept the reflection of the moon or moonlight]
Lǐ Bái [or Lǐ Po or Lǐ Taìbaí or Rihaku or Lǐ Bo; prompt on Lǐ]
“Quiet Night Thought” [or Jìng Yè Sī; accept similar translations like “Quiet Night Thoughts”] &lt;Poetry — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
In this play, Franz hangs himself with the cord of his hat after he is told that the greatest sins are fratricide and parricide. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Franz Moor plots to have his brother Karl disinherited. At the end of this play, Karl kills his lover Amalia on her request after they realize that they cannot be together.
The Robbers is by this German playwright, who portrayed a legendary Swiss marksman shooting an apple off his son’s head in William Tell. A poem by this author is addressed to a “daughter of Elysium.”
Friedrich Schiller is best known for this poem, which lauds its title concept as a “beautiful spark of Divinity.” It is sung by the chorus in the last movement of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony.
The Robbers [or Die Räuber]
Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
“Ode To Joy” &lt;Drama — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
This author described a statue that is missing its “legendary head / with eyes like ripening fruit” in his poem “Archaic Torso of Apollo.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who asked, “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic / Orders?” in the first of his ten Duino Elegies.
This poem by Rilke describes “a ritual dance around a center in which a mighty will stands paralyzed.” The title animal of this poem “paces in cramped circles, over and over” while trapped behind “a thousand bars.”
Rilke wrote in this language. Other poets who wrote in this language include Heinrich Heine (HY-nuh) and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (GUR-tuh).
Rainer Maria Rilke (RILL-kuh)
“The Panther” [or “Der Panther”]
German [or Deutsch] &lt;Poetry — Venkateswaran&gt; [Edited]
One character in this novel divides people into cretins, fools, and morons, as well as lunatics, who all inevitably mention the Templars. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Diotallevi, Jacopo Belbo, and Casaubon invent a “Plan” connecting the occult and conspiracy theories found in books published by Manutius.
The author of Foucault’s Pendulum, Umberto Eco, also wrote this murder mystery in which William of Baskerville visits a monastery. In this novel, the librarian Jorge of Burgos kills himself by swallowing a poisoned second volume of Aristotle’s Poetics.
The character William of Baskerville is an extended reference to this fictional detective, who appears in stories like “The Hound of the Baskervilles” and “A Study in Scarlet” by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Foucault’s Pendulum [or Il pendolo di Foucault]
The Name of the Rose [or Il nome della rosa]
Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock] &lt;Long Fiction — Gray&gt; [Edited]
A semi-mythical one of these animals in Edinburgh named Greyfriars Bobby waited 14 years on his master’s grave. For 10 points each:
Name this kind of animal. An archetypically loyal one of these animals was Argos, who recognized his master Odysseus when he returned to Ithaca despite his disguise of a beggar. Just afterward, Argos died.
This Akita dog waited at Shibuya Station in Tokyo every day for ten years for his master, Hidesaburo Ueno (ooh-ey-no), who had died at work. A bronze statue of this dog now stands at Shibuya Station in memory.
In a novel by this author, the dog Buck is stolen and sold as a sled dog, but then rescued by the prospector John Thornton, to whom he becomes fiercely loyal. When Thornton is killed, Buck answers a “call” that titles that book by this author.
dogs [or dugs or skýlos; accept doggos; prompt on canines]
Hachiko
Jack London &lt;Mixed/Other — Gray&gt; [Edited]
It’s not safe to be Gloucester (GLOSS-ter) in a Shakespeare play. For 10 points each:
The Duke of Somerset (SUM-er-set) and the Duke of Suffolk (SUFF-ik) plot to kill Humphrey, the Duke of Gloucester, in the second of the three Shakespeare histories titled after this king.
This Duke of Gloucester is “determined to prove a villain” and murders his brothers to become king in his own Shakespeare history. This character dies in battle after shouting “my kingdom for a horse!”
Cornwall shouts “out, vile jelly!” as he gouges out the Earl of Gloucester’s eyes in this Shakespeare tragedy about an elderly king who divides his kingdom among his daughters Goneril, Regan, and Cordelia.
Henry VI [prompt on Henry]
Richard, Duke of Gloucester [or Richard III]
King Lear &lt;Drama — French&gt; [Edited]
A woman who loses this object at a ball considers her low-class birth to be an “accident of fate.” For 10 points each:
Name this object, which Mathilde Loisel (mah-TEELD lwah-ZELL) spends ten years paying for after having lost. She later discovers that this object was actually a worthless fake.
This French short story writer wrote “The Necklace.” He also wrote about a pair of Frenchmen who are killed after refusing to reveal a password to a group of Prussian officers in the story “Two Friends.”
A character with this profession stabs a Prussian officer nicknamed “Mademoiselle Fifi” in a story by Guy de Maupassant. Yet another Prussian officer extorts a character with this occupation in the story “Ball of Fat.”
the necklace [or la parure or the diamond necklace or Madame Forestier’s necklace]
Guy de Maupassant (ghee duh moh-pah-SAWN)
prostitute [or prostituée; accept synonyms] &lt;Short Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This animal prays “from his heart’s deep core” and flings himself “upward to Heaven” in Paul Laurence Dunbar’s poem “Sympathy.” For 10 points each:
Name this animal. This metaphorical animal titles an autobiography describing its author’s experience with racism and sexual assault during her childhood in Stamps, Arkansas.
This African-American author wrote the autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. In her poem “Caged Bird,” this poet wrote that “the caged bird / sings of freedom.”
This poem by Angelou describes “species long since departed” whose “broad alarm… of hastening doom / Is lost in the gloom of dust and ages.” She read it at Bill Clinton’s inauguration.
the caged bird [accept I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings; prompt on bird]
Maya Angelou
“On the Pulse of Morning” &lt;Poetry — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
In a story by this author, a group of monkeys attacks Bobby after Mrs. Das spills puffed rice. For 10 points each:
Name this author who included “A Temporary Matter” and “Mrs. Sen’s” in her collection Interpreter of Maladies.
In this story from Interpreter of Maladies, Miranda has an affair with an older Indian man named Dev, but she stops after Rohin defines the title word as “loving someone you don’t know.”
Most of the stories in Interpreter of Maladies are about Indian immigrants living in this country. Bengali author Bharati Mukherjee taught at this country’s University of California, Berkeley.
Jhumpa Lahiri
“Sexy”
United States of America [or America or USA or U. S.] &lt;Short Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
The narrator of this novel comments on his “judicious use of words” when he tells the reader that he “did what little had to be done” when, in reality, he removed evidence of a murder he committed. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the unreliable narrator, Dr. James Sheppard, blackmails Mrs. Ferrars and then kills the title character.
The identity of Roger Ackroyd’s murderer is found out by this detective, who had retired to the country to grow vegetable marrows. This Belgian frequently boasts of his “little gray cells.”
This author wrote many mystery novels featuring Hercule Poirot, including The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. Poirot determines that twelve people all conspired to murder Cassetti in this author’s novel Murder on the Orient Express.
The Murder of Roger Ackroyd
Hercule Poirot [or Hercule]
Agatha Christie &lt;Long Fiction — Venkateswaran&gt; [Ed. French]
A poem about one of these events describes “blood on the leaves and blood at the root” while the “scent of magnolia” hangs in the air. For 10 points each:
Name these events. A sheriff in the James Baldwin story “Going to Meet the Man” finds that he does not have erectile dysfunction after he witnesses one of these events.
Baldwin criticised this author for portraying Bigger Thomas as a stereotypical violent black man in the essay “Everybody’s Protest Novel.” This author wrote about his involvement with the Communist Party in his autobiographical novel Black Boy.
“Everybody’s Protest Novel” also criticizes this author’s novel Uncle Tom’s Cabin for being overly sentimental, and for implying that the key to resisting evil men like Simon Legree is to pray to a white god instead of act.
lynchings [prompt on killing or murder or other near-synonyms] (The poem is “Strange Fruit,” written by Abel Meeropol and sung by Billie Holliday.)
Richard Wright [or Richard Nathaniel Wright] (The collection is titled Notes of a Native Son.)
Harriet Beecher Stowe &lt;Other Literature — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This character is mocked for having a “Glove fulla vaseline.” For 10 points each:
Name this character. This man’s wife breaks her neck and dies after she allows another character to feel her hair.
Lennie accidentally kills Curley’s wife in this novella. The migrant workers George and Lennie strive to own a farm and “live off the fatta the lan” in this novella by John Steinbeck.
In Of Mice and Men, Lennie is most excited about tending to these animals on the farm. At the end of the novel, he hallucinates about a gigantic one of these animals telling him that he “ain’t fit to lick the boots of no [one of these animals].”
Curley
Of Mice and Men
rabbits [accept hares or bunnies] &lt;Long Fiction — Venkateswaran&gt; [Edited]
One song written by this poet which has been proposed as a national anthem for his country asks “Is there for honest poverty” before answering with the refrain “A Man’s A Man for A’ That.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who in another poem expressed regret that “man’s dominion / Has broken nature’s social union” after having accidentally destroyed its subject’s house.
That Burns poem written in Scots is addressed to this “wee, sleekit, cowrin, tim'rous beastie” with a “pannic in thy breastie.”
A love poem by Burns compares his love to a “red, red” one of these flowers “newly sprung in June.” In Romeo and Juliet, Juliet remarks “that which we call” this flower “By any other name would smell as sweet.”
Robert Burns [or Rabbie Burns]
a mouse [accept “To a Mouse”]
roses &lt;Poetry — Gray&gt; [Ed. French]
In this play, Richard quotes from “subversive” books in his love letters to Muriel McComber, but when he can’t date her, he woos Belle instead. For 10 points each:
Name this 1933 play about the Miller family’s Fourth of July. It is subtitled for “ancient days when youth was young,” and its title is a quote from the Rubaiyat.
This American author wrote the comedy Ah Wilderness! He also wrote The Iceman Cometh and Long Day’s Journey into Night.
In contrast to the Millers, this central family of Long Day’s Journey into Night can not let go of the past. This family’s matriarch, Mary, is addicted to morphine.
Ah, Wilderness!
Eugene O’Neill
the Tyrones &lt;Drama — Gray&gt; [Ed. French]
This woman ends her stories at cliffhangers to ensure that her husband Shahryar puts off killing her until the next day. For 10 points each:
Name this woman. She is the primary narrator of a collection in which Morgiana saves Ali Baba from forty thieves by pouring boiling oil on them.
Scheherazade is the narrator of this collection, which includes “Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.” Modern versions of this collection include fantastical stories about Sinbad the Sailor and Aladdin.
In the collection’s story “The Three Apples,” this ruler commands his vizier Ja’far to solve the murder of a young woman whose body was found cut up in a chest. In another story, this ruler pardons Attaf after reading his fate in a book.
Scheherazade (shuh-”HAIR”-uh-zahd)
One Thousand and One Nights [or Alf layla wa-layla or the Arabian Nights]
Harun al-Rashid &lt;Short Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
Two characters in this novel visit a church in which every statue and monument has its eyes covered with a white cloth. For 10 points each:
Name this novel. In this novel, a boy with a squint and a woman with dark glasses are guided by the Doctor’s wife.
Blindness is a novel by this author. A large number of blank ballots are cast in an election in this author’s follow-up to Blindness, which is titled Seeing.
Saramago is an author from this Iberian nation, which breaks off from Europe alongside Spain in his novel The Stone Raft.
Blindness
José Saramago [or José de Sousa Saramago]
Portugal [or Portuguese Republic or República Portuguesa] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This poem describes the evening as “spread out against the sky / Like a patient etherized upon a table.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, whose epigraph is taken from Dante’s Inferno. The speaker of this poem repeats “In the room the women come and go / Talking of Michelangelo” before asking “Do I dare / Disturb the universe?”
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” was written by this modernist poet of “Portrait of a Lady” and “Rhapsody on a Windy Night.” This poet included many arcane literary allusions in The Waste Land.
In “Rhapsody on a Windy Night,” the speaker notes that “the moon has lost” this thing. For the musical Cats, Trevor Nunn adapted “Rhapsody on a Windy Night” to write the lyrics of a song titled for this thing.
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”
T. S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
memory &lt;Poetry — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
The first stanza of <em>The Canterbury Tales</em> describes a group of these animals that “maken melodye” and “slepen al the nyght with open ÿe.” For 10 points each:
Name these animals. The narrator falls asleep and dreams of a “parlement” of these animals in another work by Geoffrey Chaucer.
Both The Canterbury Tales and The Parlement of Foules were written in this form of medieval English that is more recent than Old English.
In The Parlement of Foules, this bird is described as “ever unkinde.” The Middle English round “Sumer is icumen in” is sometimes titled after this bird, since it commands this bird to sing.
birds [or foules or fowls]
Middle English
cuckoo [or cuccu or cukkow or cuckow or kukkow or kockow or cockou or cokkow or kukkowe] &lt;Short Fiction — French&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, answer the following about the subjects of Claude Debussy’s <em>Préludes</em> (pray-ludes):
The first Prélude is titled for a sculpture of three figures on top of a column called the “Dancers” of this place. This location is better known as the site of the most famous Greek oracle.
The thundering chords of La Cathédrale Engloutie (lah cah-THAY-drole ON-glou-tee) evoke the church bells of this submerged city. A legend states that this city off the coast of Brittany will emerge from the waves when Paris sinks.
A Prélude that quotes “God Save the Queen” is an “Homage to Samuel Pickwick, PPMPC.” That character is the protagonist of The Pickwick Papers, which is by this author.
Delphi [or Pytho]
Ys (eece)
Charles Dickens &lt;Mixed/Other — Gray&gt; [Edited]
A character in this play appears to fire a gun at his wife, but instead of bullets, it shoots out an umbrella. For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which two couples play emotionally-abusive party games such as “Get the Guests.” In this play, Martha screams, “You can’t kill him!” after George reports the death of their imaginary son.
This American playwright wrote Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? This author was nominated for the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for his play The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia?
Albee also wrote this one-act play in which Jerry describes a failed attempt to kill his landlady’s dog with rat poison. At the end of this play, Jerry gives a knife to Peter and then impales himself on it.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee
The Zoo Story &lt;Drama — Venkateswaran&gt; [Ed. French]
According to one essay, byproducts from the production of this food could make “admirable gloves for ladies, and summer boots for fine gentlemen.” For 10 points each:
Name this food. An essay proposes that Britain encourage the production of this food to create a “dramatic reduction in the number of papists.”
This author satirically suggested that poor Irish families sell their babies for food in his essay “A Modest Proposal.” He also wrote Gulliver’s Travels.
This author oddly did not mention “A Modest Proposal” in his biography of Swift, which is in his Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets. This author’s own biography was written by James Boswell.
Irish babies [or Irish toddlers or Irish children; prompt on Irish people or people or Irish humans or humans]
Jonathan Swift
Samuel Johnson &lt;Essay — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
A sweet potato dessert called <em>dulce de batata</em> is often named after the title gaucho of this country’s national epic, <em>Martín Fierro</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this country with a historically-thriving beef industry. That industry was supplied by gaucho cowboys on the pampas, most prominently in Buenos Aires Province.
Barbecue beef, or churrasco, seasoned with chimichurri is the main dish of this Argentinean social event. This kind of barbecue shares its name with a common cut of beef served at it.
Asado cuts of beef are traditionally paired with this national drink of Argentina to form the gaucho diet. This Guaraní (gwa-ra-NEE) tea is made from leaves partially called “yerba.”
Argentina
asado [do NOT accept or prompt on “carne asada”]
maté (mah-TAY) [or mate] &lt;Geography — Gray&gt; [Edited]
One poet used this symbol in the middle of lines such as “Come slowly— Eden!” and “Wild nights— Wild nights!” For 10 points each:
Name this punctuation mark. Non-standard capitalization and the use of this punctuation mark characterize the style of the poet who used both techniques in “I heard a Fly buzz— when I died.”
Dashes punctuate the poetry of this reclusive American poet of “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Dickinson used a dash to separate “Without— the power to die” at the end of a poem describing one of these objects. Another dash interrupts the phrase “My Life had stood—” one of these objects.
dash [accept em-dash, hyphen, horizontal line or other reasonable descriptions of ‘—’]
Emily Dickinson
a loaded gun [prompt on gun]  &lt;Poetry — French&gt; [Edited]
In a novel, an elderly man named Thomas Pérez faints in the middle of a procession for this character. For 10 points each:
Name this character who “died today, or yesterday, I can’t be sure.” At a trial, the narrator of the novel is accused of not caring about this character because he did not cry at her funeral.
Meursault (mur-SO) attends his mother’s funeral before making the acquaintance of the pimp Raymond Sintes (sant) in this author’s novel The Stranger. He also wrote The Fall and The Plague.
In The Stranger, Meursault is sentenced to death for fatally shooting this character, who is only referred to by his ethnicity.
Meursault’s mother [or maman]
Albert Camus (kah-MOO)
the Arab [or l’Arabe] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This character sings about “the ousel cock so black of hue” after his companions run away from him in fright. For 10 points each:
Name this weaver whose head is transfigured into the head of an ass while he is rehearsing for a performance of Pyramus and Thisbe.
Puck transforms Bottom so that the faerie queen Titania falls in love with a hideous beast in this Shakespeare play set in the forest outside Athens.
When explaining his mischief to Oberon, Puck calls Bottom and his companions by this two-word phrase, referring to their low social status as skilled craftsmen. In secondary sources, this phrase is often used as that group’s name.
Nick Bottom [or Nick]
A Midsummer Night’s Dream
“rude mechanicals” [prompt on mechanicals] &lt;Drama — French&gt; [Edited]
Oku Onuora and Jean Binta Breeze practice the “dub” form of this art form, which arose out of improvised “toasting” in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
Name this art form, which was performed by artists like Saul Williams on an HBO series hosted by Mos Def. Marc Smith originated the practice of “slams” of this art form, at which it is performed in competition.
A preeminent slam poet, Staceyann Chin, is among the many contemporary poets from this country, where dub poetry originated. Harlem Renaissance poet Claude McKay was born in this country.
Staceyann Chin is active in this city, where the Harlem Renaissance occurred.
poetry [or spoken word; accept dub poetry or slam poetry or Def Poetry or Def Poetry Jam; prompt on rap]
Jamaica
New York City &lt;Poetry — French&gt; [Edited]
After finding the shards of this object in its cupboard, the owner of this object carries off its fragments “as if she carried a dead body.” For 10 points each:
Name this glass red object, which is broken by a cat while its sickly owner is visiting a doctor in a nearby town.
The destruction of Zeena’s pickle-dish represents the disintegration of Ethan and Zeena’s marriage in this author’s novel Ethan Frome. She also wrote The Age of Innocence.
The pickle-dish breaks after this woman uses it to serve Ethan an intimate supper. After realizing that they cannot be together, Ethan and this woman try to kill themselves by sledding into an elm tree.
Zeena’s pickle-dish
Edith Wharton
Mattie [or Mattie Silver] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
A man named Ser Ciappelletto convinces a town to canonize him in this collection’s first story. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of 100 short stories. It includes a story about a woman named Griselda whose patience is tested when her husband Gualtieri pretends to kill her children.
Giovanni Bocaccio set The Decameron in the middle of this 14th century epidemic, which killed over a third of Europe’s population.
In The Decameron, Federigo frantically cooks one of these animals when he hears his crush Monna Giovanna is coming to visit him. Unfortunately, Monna came because she wanted to show this animal to her son before he dies.
The Decameron [or Decamerone]
Black Death [or Black Plague or bubonic plague or The Pestilence; accept the Plague]
a falcon [prompt on bird] &lt;Short Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
Rita Dove’s collection <em>Sonata Mulattica</em> follows the life of George Bridgetower, who was the original dedicatee of a work by this composer. For 10 points each:
Name this composer. In A Clockwork Orange, Alex is conditioned to hate this composer’s “Choral” ninth symphony via the Ludovico Technique.
Dove’s Sonata Mulattica takes its title from the original name of this Beethoven composition. In a novella, Posdnicheff murders his wife after she performs this composition with her lover, Troukhatchevsky.
In this novel, Tomas quotes a note from Beethoven’s sixteenth string quartet when he tells Tereza, “es muss sein.” The dog Karenin dies of cancer in this novel by Milan Kundera, which is set during the Prague Spring.
Ludwig van Beethoven
Kreutzer Sonata [or Violin Sonata No. 9 or Op. 47]
The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelná lehkost bytí] &lt;Other Literature — Gurazada&gt; [Ed. French]
This archetype describes characters who are present in the Russian social elite but are unable to perform meaningful actions. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th century Russian literary archetype, which is often analogized to the Byronic hero. Characters in this archetype include Ivan Goncharov’s Oblomov and a man who dances with Olga at her name day celebration.
The superfluous man Eugene Onegin dances with Olga and shoots Lensky in a verse novel by this Russian poet. This author also wrote “The Bronze Horseman.”
This other author wrote about Tchulkaturin’s obsession with Liza in The Diary of a Superfluous Man. This author described the nihilist Bazarov in his novel Fathers and Sons.
the superfluous man [or líshniy chelovék]
Alexander Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin or Aleksandr Sergejevich Pushkin]
Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev or Iván Sergéyevich Turgénev] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
A line addressed to this person laments, “ah… while you are not safe I am not safe, and now you’re really in the total animal soup of time.” For 10 points each:
Name this person whose time in Greystone Park Psychiatric Hospital inspired a poem that tells him, “I’m with you in Rockland.”
Carl Solomon is the dedicatee of this Allen Ginsberg poem, which begins, “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.”
The second section of Howl is addressed to this deity, “whose breast is a cannibal dynamo” and “whose mind is pure machinery.” That section also calls this Canaanite god a “sphinx of cement and aluminum.”
Carl Solomon [or Carl]
“Howl”
Moloch &lt;Poetry — French&gt; [Edited]
At the end of this play, two couples maniacally scream “It’s not that way, it’s over here!” before swapping roles. For 10 points each:
Name this play, which opens when an “English clock strikes 17 English strokes.” In this play, Mary recites a poem about everything catching fire after the arrival of the Fire Chief.
This Romanian playwright of The Chairs and Rhinoceros wrote about an absurd party attended by the Smiths and the Martins in The Bald Soprano.
Eugène Ionesco wrote the majority of his plays in this language. It was also used by playwrights like Jean Genet (zhuh-NAY), Antonin Artaud (ar-TOH), and Victor Hugo.
The Bald Soprano [or La Cantatrice Chauve]
Eugène Ionesco (ee-oh-NESS-koh)
French [or Français] &lt;Drama — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This author described a 1959 trip to Cuba in <em>I Can't Think of Any Title</em>, one of his many journalistic pieces. For 10 points each:
Name this author. Characters created by this author include Úrsula Iguarán, who lives for over 150 years, and Colonel Aureliano, who fathers seventeen sons that share his name.
Those characters appear in this novel by García Márquez, in which José Arcadio Buendía founds the town of Macondo.
In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Úrsula warns her family that their incest will lead to their children haviing this physical feature. When Aureliano sleeps with his cousin Armanta Úrsula, their child has this feature and ultimately is eaten by ants.
Gabriel García Márquez [or Gabriel José de la Concordia García Márquez; accept Gabo or Gabito; prompt on García or Márquez]
One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien Años de Soledad; do NOT accept or prompt on “A Hundred Years of Solitude”]
a pig’s tail [or a tail of a pig; prompt on tail] &lt;Long Fiction — Venkateswaran&gt; [Ed. French]
A poem describes this character by saying, “<em>Her</em> lips were red, <em>her</em> looks were free, / Her locks were yellow as gold.” For 10 points each:
Name this “Night-mare” whose “skin was white as leprosy” and who “thicks man’s blood with cold.” In a game of dice, this character wins the fate of the title character of the poem in which she appears.
As a result of the game of dice, the title character of this poem is forced to live and watch his men die. This poem’s title “grey-beard loon” narrates it to the Wedding-Guest.
This author of “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner” included it in the collection Lyrical Ballads, on which he collaborated with William Wordsworth.
LIFE-IN-DEATH [do NOT accept or prompt on “LIFE” or “DEATH”]
“The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge &lt;Poetry — B. Wang&gt; [Ed. Venkateswaran]
This character throws scaldingly hot applesauce at Edgar Linton’s face after Edgar insults his long hair. For 10 points each:
Name this orphan who falls in love with Catherine Earnshaw. He is the landlord of Mr. Lockwood.
Heathcliff becomes a bitter man with many vicious dogs after Catherine’s death in this novel by Emily Brontë.
In Wuthering Heights, the title estate is surrounded by this infertile, hilly region, whose dangers mirror the doomed relationship between Cathy and Heathcliff. Their ghosts are seen walking across this region at the end of the novel.
Heathcliff
Wuthering Heights
the moors [or moorland] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
According to one novel, this crop, “the king of crops, was a man’s crop,” in contrast to the “womanly” crops like beans and cassava. For 10 points each:
Name this crop. A dictator demands to be served this crop, but instead he is presented with a farmer’s head on a platter in the play Kongi’s Harvest by Wole Soyinka.
This character prides himself on his ability to grow enough yams to feed his three wives, whom he beats regularly. This man celebrates the Feast of the New Yam with the rest of his village in Umuofia.
This Nigerian author created Okonkwo in his novel Things Fall Apart. He called Joseph Conrad a “bloody racist” in his essay An Image of Africa.
yam [do NOT accept or prompt on “coco-yam”]
Okonkwo
Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe] &lt;Other Literature — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
At the end of this novel, Shimamura feels “the Milky Way [flow] down inside him with a roar” after Komako rescues Yoko from a cocoon warehouse fire. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Shimamura has an affair with the geisha Komako at a village with hot springs.
This author wrote Snow Country. He also detailed Otake’s defeat of Honinbo Shusai in the title game of his novel The Master of Go.
Yasunari Kawabata was from this country. Another author from this country, Kenzaburō Ōe (oh-ay), based many characters on his son Hikari.
Snow Country [or Yukiguni]
Yasunari Kawabata [accept names in either order]
State of Japan [or Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku] &lt;Long Fiction — Venkateswaran&gt; [Edited]
The title of an essay by Leslie Fiedler about the undercurrents of homosexuality in American literature tells this character to “Come Back to the Raft Ag’in.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, who declares that he’ll “go to hell” before helping a friend escape the Phelps Farm. This character begins his journey down the Mississippi river after faking his death with a pig carcass.
This author wrote The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. He took inspiration from a tale by Ben Coon for a story about a rigged jumping contest titled The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County.
In another story by Twain, a man with a bag of gold exposes the hypocrisy of this town. After the residents of this town are exposed as liars, it changes its motto to “lead us into temptation.”
Huck Finn [or Huckleberry Finn or Huck Finn or Huckleberry Finn]
Mark Twain [accept Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Hadleyburg [accept “The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg”] &lt;Short Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
A Parsee named Fedallah predicts that that this character can only be killed by hemp. For 10 points each:
Name this peg-legged character. He screams “from hell’s heart I stab at thee” in his final breath before drowning.
Captain Ahab leads the crew of the Pequod on a mad hunt for revenge against the title whale of this Herman Melville novel narrated by the sailor Ishmael.
Near the beginning of Moby-Dick, Ishmael attends a sermon delivered by this character, who preaches that Jonah remained obedient to God even though God sent a whale to eat him.
Captain Ahab
Moby-Dick [or Moby-Dick; or, The Whale]
Father Mapple &lt;Long Fiction — Venkateswaran&gt; [Ed. Schwartz]
This collection is split into sections titled for the “Life” and the “Death” of its dedicatee. For 10 points each:
Name this 14th century poetry collection that begins “You who hear the sound, in scattered rhymes.”
The author of Il Canzoniere, Petrarch, dedicated the collection to this idealized woman, with whom he became infatuated at first sight.
Il Canzoniere contains 317 poems in this form. An octave and a sestet make up the Petrarchan variant of this 14-line form of poetry.
Il Canzoniere [or Song Book or Rime Sparse or Rerum vulgarium fragmenta or Fragments of common things]
Laura
sonnets [accept Petrarchan sonnets] &lt;Poetry — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. Venkateswaran]
Yael Farber replaced this cycle’s chorus with Xhosa musicians in <em>Molora</em>, which adapts this cycle to post-apartheid South Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this series of tragedies in which the title character avenges his father’s murder by Aegisthus. It consists of the plays Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers, and The Eumenides.
Eugene O’Neill adapted Aeschylus’ Oresteia in this cycle of plays, which is partially titled after Orestes’ sister. The Civil War general Ezra Mannon is poisoned by his wife Christine in this cycle’s first play, Homecoming.
This author explored existentialist themes in his adaptation of The Oresteia titled The Flies. This playwright and philosopher wrote that “Hell is other people” in Huis Clos, which is translated as No Exit.
The Oresteia [by Aeschylus]
Mourning Becomes Electra
Jean-Paul Sartre (sart) &lt;Drama — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
This poet began his “Sleepwalking Ballad” with the line “Verde que te quiero verde.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet. This poet declared “I will not see it!” after describing the death “at five in the afternoon” of Ignacio Sánchez Mejía in “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter.”
Federico García Lorca was a poet from this country. García Lorca was killed by forces loyal to this country’s dictator, Francisco Franco.
García Lorca belonged to this “generation” of Spanish poets, whose first meeting commemorated the 300th anniversary of the death of Luis de Góngora. Other members of this group included Rafael Alberti and Vicente Aleixandre.
Federico García Lorca [prompt on García]
Spain [or España or Kingdom of Spain or Reino de España; accept Republic of Spain or República de España]
Generation of ‘27 [or Generación del 27; accept Generation of 1927 or Generación del 1927] &lt;Poetry — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
This author described her classification of a childhood servant as “poor” and nothing else in her TED talk “The Danger of a Single Story.” For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary Nigerian author of novels like Purple Hibiscus and Half of a Yellow Sun.
Ifemelu begins a blog called “Raceteenth” about what it means to be African in this country in a 2013 novel by Adichie. Teju Cole described Julius’ experience living in this country in Open City, which is set in New York.
Adichie’s 2017 novel about how to raise a feminist daughter, Dear Ijeawele, is written in this literary form. Novels in this form are told through a series of documents, such as journal entries or letters.
Chimamanda Adichie (uh-DEE-chee-ay) [or Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie]
United States of America [or America or USA or U. S.; accept Americanah]
epistolary novels &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
The human condition is the urge to try and find meaning in a meaningless universe. For 10 points each:
This philosopher’s book The Human Condition contrasts the vita activa of labor, work, and action, and the sedentary vita contemplativa. This philosopher also wrote Eichmann (IKE-man) in Jerusalem about the banality of evil.
This writer’s novel Siddhartha is about the title character searching for and eventually finding meaning in the totality of his life experiences. This writer also wrote Steppenwolf and The Glass Bead Game.
Gautama Buddha attained nirvana, or liberation from this cycle, through the Middle Way. This Sanskrit term refers to the cycle of rebirth in many religions that is only broken through enlightenment.
Hannah Arendt
Herman Hesse
saṃsāra &lt;Mixed/Other — Gray&gt; [Edited]
This collection calls its title feeling “the profoundest fact of the human condition.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection. It discusses the development of Mexican culture in essays like “The Pachuco and Other Extremes” and “The Day of the Dead.”
The Labyrinth of Solitude was written by this Mexican essayist. This author explored the life of fellow Mexican author Sor Juana in his biography The Traps of Faith.
Octavio Paz discussed the replacement of Nahuatl by this language in the essay “The Conquest and Colonialism.” Paz himself wrote in this language.
The Labyrinth of Solitude
Octavio Paz
Spanish [or Español] &lt;Essay — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
In Governor Bellingham’s mansion, this symbol is “represented in exaggerated and gigantic proportions” in the breastplate of a suit of armor. For 10 points each:
Name this symbol. The end of one novel describes a gravestone with the epitaph “On a field, sable, [this symbol] gules.”
In The Scarlet Letter, Hester Prynne is forced to wear the letter A after her affair with Arthur Dimmesdale results in the birth of this girl.
This early-19th century American author of The Marble Faun and The Blithedale Romance wrote The Scarlet Letter.
the letter A [or the scarlet letter]
Pearl
Nathaniel Hawthorne [or Nathaniel Hathorne] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. Venkateswaran]
In this play, Dapper is convinced to throw away all of his valuable possessions before meeting a prostitute disguised as the “Queen of Fairy.” For 10 points each:
Name this play. In this play, Face and Subtle con Londoners like Abel Drugger and Sir Epicure Mammon after Lovewit flees his house to escape the plague.
The Alchemist is a play by this author. This English Renaissance playwright described the title Venetian nobleman’s attempts to scam Corvino, Corbaccio, and Voltore in Volpone.
Ben Jonson mocked the education of this other English Renaissance playwright by saying he had “small Latin and less Greek.” This playwright was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, and, despite conspiracy theories, he was not Christopher Marlowe.
The Alchemist
Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson
William Shakespeare &lt;Drama — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
Malachi Constant meets one of these creatures named Salo in <em>The Sirens of Titan</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures, who resemble plungers with a hand attached on top. They respond to death with the expression “So it Goes.”
In a novel, Tralfamadorians place this character in a zoo with the adult film actress Montana Wildhack. This character becomes “unstuck in time” in the novel Slaughterhouse Five.
This author wrote about Billy Pilgrim and the Tralfamadorians in Slaughterhouse Five. This author’s alter ego Kilgore Trout appears in his novels Breakfast of Champions and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater.
Tralfamadorians
Billy Pilgrim [or Billy]
Kurt Vonnegut &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
J.R.R. Tolkien argued that, while this character is “primarily an ogre,” he is also “an image of man estranged from god.” For 10 points each:
Name this monster. This “descendant of Cain” has his arm ripped off while raiding the mead hall of King Hrothgar.
Grendel has his arm ripped off by this warrior who defeats Grendel, Grendel’s mother, and a dragon in the Old English epic named for him.
Grendel is called a “shepherd of evil” in an example of one of these expressions, which are common in Old English poetry. These compound metaphors combine two unlike nouns to refer to a third noun, such as “battle-sweat” for “blood.”
Grendel
Beowulf
kennings &lt;Poetry — Iyer/Schwartz&gt; [Ed. French]
Jean Rhys (reese) adapted this character as a Jamaican woman named Antoinette Cosway in her novel <em>Wide Sargasso Sea</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who inspired the title of Gilbert and Gubar’s The Madwoman in the Attic. This woman burns down Thornfield Hall after her husband locks her inside.
This character, the husband of Bertha Mason, pays the servant Grace Poole to take care of Bertha, which he publicly reveals on the day of his wedding with another character.
This governess saves Rochester from the fire caused by Bertha Mason and later marries him. She titles a novel by Charlotte Brontë.
Bertha Mason [or Bertha]
Edward Rochester [or Edward]
Jane Eyre [or Jane] &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Ed. Venkateswaran]
In this novel, Berlioz is decapitated by a streetcar after he slips on sunflower oil. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Mikhail Bulgakov in which the devil, disguised as Professor Woland, visits Moscow.
In The Master and Margarita, The Master is working on a novel about the trial of this person. In another book, the Grand Inquisitor imprisons this person because he gave humanity free will rather than security.
This author included the parable of the Grand Inquisitor in his The Brothers Karamazov. He also wrote Crime and Punishment.
The Master and Margarita
Jesus Christ [or Jesus of Nazareth or Yeshua Ha-Nozri]
Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Dostoyevsky or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky] &lt;Long Fiction — Iyer&gt; [Ed. French]
The title character of this play is cursed to be forgotten by her husband due to the machinations of the short-tempered sage Durvasa. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Kālidāsa (kaa-lee-daa-suh). In this play, Dushyanta (doo-shyun-tuh) overcomes the curse by recalling his wife’s signet ring after it is found in the belly of a fish.
Kālidāsa wrote The Recognition of Shakuntala in this ancient Indian language. Valmiki used this language to write the Ramayana.
This author described “blossoms of spring” in an epigram about Shakuntala. Shakuntala’s prologue inspired the prologue of a play by this author in which a scholar strikes a deal with the demon Mephistopheles.
The Recognition of Shakuntala [or The Sign of Shakuntala or The Recognition of Shakuntalam or The Sign of Shakuntalam or Abhijnanashakuntala or Abhijñānaśākuntalam or Abhijñāna Shākuntalam]
Sanskrit
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (GUR-tuh) &lt;Drama — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
This author wrote that “there is no there, there” in reference to her home city of Oakland. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who coined the term “Lost Generation” to describe disillusioned American expatriates who settled in Europe after World War I. This author also wrote an “autobiography” about her lover, Alice B. Toklas.
This author wrote about his life in Paris as part of the Lost Generation in his memoir A Moveable Feast. He also wrote The Old Man and the Sea and “Hills Like White Elephants.”
This novel by Ernest Hemingway has the epigraph “you are all a lost generation.” In this novel, the impotent Jake Barnes romantically pursues Lady Brett Ashley through Pamplona.
Gertrude Stein
Ernest Hemingway
The Sun Also Rises &lt;Long Fiction — Schwartz&gt; [Edited]
For 10 points each, name some forms used in Persian poetry:
This form, usually translated as “quatrain,” consists of four lines with an AABA (A-A-B-A) rhyme scheme. The lines “A Book of Verses underneath the Bough / A jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and thou” originate from a collection titled for this form by Omar Khayyam (kai-YAWM).
Rumi wrote around twenty-five thousand “spiritual” verses in this form in his Masnavi. In English poetry, this verse form simply consists of two paired lines.
This form of poetry consists of around ten thematically disparate couplets, which are linked by a rhyming phrase called the radif (ra-DEEF). Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib wrote many poems in this form, and they are often addressed to the poet’s beloved.
ruba’i (roo-bah-EE) [or ruba’iyat; accept Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam]
couplets [accept rhyming couplets or Spiritual Couplets]
ghazal &lt;Poetry — Iyer&gt; [Ed. French]
This poet described “creatures of the moon” as they “prowl about their cabins” in his poem “City That Does Not Sleep.” For 10 points each:
Name this Spanish poet and playwright, who wrote poems like “Romance Sonambulo” and “Ballad of the Moon,” which appear in his collection Gypsy Ballads.
García Lorca wrote a poem titled for the “Lament for the Death of” a man of this profession. In the poem, the narrator describes the “Spilled Blood” of a man of this profession after he is gored by the horns of a certain animal.
In “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter,” every other line of the first section refers to this time. At this specific time of day, “death laid eggs in the wound” as the “coffin on wheels” carries away the dead bullfighter.
Federico García Lorca [prompt on a partial answer; accept Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca]
bullfighting [accept matadors; accept “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter”]
“five in the afternoon” [accept any answer indicating that it is 5 P.M.] &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
The last stanza of this poem describes “a king reigned in the east,” and ends by claiming that “Mithridates he died old.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, in which the speaker claims that “malt does more than Milton can to justify God’s ways to man.”
This author of “Terence, this is stupid stuff” wrote about the time a character “won [his] town the race” and was chaired “through the market-place" in his poem “To an Athlete Dying Young.”
Both “Terence, this is Stupid Stuff” and “To an Athlete Dying Young” appear in this Housman poetry collection. It also includes the poems “Is My Team Ploughing?” and “When I Was One-and-Twenty.”
“Terence, this is Stupid Stuff” [accept but do not otherwise reveal: A Shropshire Lad LXII]
A.E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman]
A Shropshire Lad &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
This author read her poem “On the Pulse of Morning” at Bill Clinton’s inauguration. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who declared “I am the dream and the hope of the slave” in her poem “Still I Rise.” She compared male admirers to a “swarm of honey bees” in her poem “Phenomenal Woman.”
Angelou recounts her life story in I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings and other books in its series, all of which belong to this genre. This type of book features an author writing about their own lived experience.
I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings takes its title from “Sympathy,” a poem by this African-American author. This writer is most famous for his poem “We Wear The Mask.”
Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Annie Johnson]
autobiography [prompt on memoir]
Paul Laurence Dunbar &lt;TB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
A man in a glass coach mistakes “the shadow of his equipage” for one of these animals in one poem. For 10 points each:
Name this type of animal, whose eye is “the only moving thing” “among twenty snowy mountains,” according to that same poem.
“Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird” was written by this American poet, who said to “Call the roller of big cigars” at the beginning of his poem “The Emperor of Ice-Cream.”
Stevens also wrote a poem titled for an “Anecdote” of one of these objects. In the poem, wilderness surrounds one of these objects placed “upon a hill” “in Tennessee.”
blackbird [prompt on bird; accept “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”]
Wallace Stevens
a jar [accept “Anecdote of the Jar”] &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
In one play by this writer, the servant girl Malavika is revealed to be a princess, making her affair with the King Agnimitra legitimate. For 10 points each:
Name this early Indian author of plays like Pertaining to Malavika and Agnimitra and The Recognition of Shakuntala.
Kalidasa is considered the greatest writer of this ancient Indian language, which was also used to write works like the Mahabharata and the Rig-Veda.
Kalidasa wrote a lyric poem about one of these objects carrying a message for a spirit’s wife. In an Aristophanes play titled for these objects, Pheidippides is sent to The Thinkery in order to learn about sophistry.
Kalidasa
Classical Sanskrit
clouds [accept The Cloud Messenger or The Clouds] &lt;EA, Drama&gt;
This art movement is named for a play by Friedrich Maximilian Klinger, in which Wild is revealed to be Karl Bushy in disguise. For 10 points each:
Name this German art movement, whose name is often roughly translated as “storm and stress.” It was followed by Weimar Classicism.
This German author’s sentimental novel The Sorrows of Young Werther is often held up as an archetypal work of Sturm und Drang, although this man moved away from the movement in later works, like Faust.
This man’s melodrama The Robbers, which depicts the tension between Franz and Karl Moor, is another quintessential Sturm und Drang work. This playwright also wrote the poem “Ode to Joy.”
Sturm und Drang [prompt on “Storm and Stress” or “Storm and Drive”]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller] &lt;TB, Drama&gt;
In this play, four girls pretend to be the wheels of a car and earlier call a motorbike “the devil’s own horse.” For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which the chief Baroka competes with the westernized teacher Lakunle for the right to marry Sidi.
This playwright of The Lion and the Jewel also wrote of Simon Pilking’s attempts to stop a ritual suicide in his play Death and the King’s Horseman.
Soyinka is from this West African country. Ken Saro-Wiwa chronicled this country’s Biafran war in his novel Sozaboy: A Novel in Rotten English, and briefly taught at this country’s University of Lagos.
The Lion and the Jewel
Wole Soyinka
Federal Republic of Nigeria &lt;WG, Drama&gt;
This story begins with Bailey reading the sports section as his mother pesters him about an escaped convict. For 10 points each:
Name this short story. The Grandmother describes the Misfit as “one of my babies...one of my own children” before he shoots her three times at the end of this story.
“A Good Man Is Hard to Find” is by this Southern author, who wrote the short story collection Everything That Rises Must Converge.
In “A Good Man is Hard to Find,” one of these events occurs after the cat Pitty Sing jumps up on Bailey’s shoulder, leaving the Mother with a broken shoulder. June Star is disappointed that no one dies in this event.
“A Good Man is Hard to Find”
Flannery O’Connor [or Mary Flannery O’Connor]
a car accident [or car crash; accept clear equivalents] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
In one of this man’s plays, the title character steals Robert Zwelinzima’s identity to obtain his work permit. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright of Sizwe Banzi is Dead. The two characters Boesman and Lena wander amongst mudflats in another one of his plays.
Athol Fugard is South African, as are the writers of Woza Albert!, a play about the arrival of this religious figure in South Africa. This man’s death is dramatized in passion plays typically performed during Easter.
In this most famous Fugard play, Sam considers whether Jesus is a “man of magnitude.” Sam and Hally reminisce about flying a kite in this play before Hally loses his temper and spits at Sam.
Athol Fugard
Jesus Christ [accept either underlined name]
Master Harold...and the Boys &lt;TB, Drama&gt;
In this play, Jean claims “Humanism is dead” and this play ends with the main character yelling “I’m not capitulating!” For 10 points each:
Name this play, a parable about fascism, in which only a drunkard avoids being turned into one of the title animals.
This absurdist author of Rhinoceros also wrote of the Fire Chief interrupting the Martin’s and Smith’s dinner party in his play The Bald Soprano.
Ionesco wrote in this language, which was also used by Jean Genet to write the absurdist plays The Maids and The Balcony. Moliere also wrote many plays in this language.
Rhinoceros
Eugene Ionesco
French [or francaise] &lt;WG, Drama&gt;
One author from this movement named Carolyn Cassady wrote the 1990 memoir <em>Off the Raod</em>, which is a reference to <em>On the Road</em>, another work by an author from this movement. For 10 points each:
Name this hedonistic, 20th-century literary movement. Prominent members of this movement included Neal Cassady and Jack Kerouac.
This Beat poet is most famous for his long poem “Howl,” which begins by describing how this poet “saw the best minds of [his] generation destroyed by madness.”
This other Beat writer went on a journey through South America for the telepathic drug yagé, which he described in The Yage Letters. He is more famous for his novel about William Lee, which is titled Naked Lunch.
Beat Generation [accept beatniks]
Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg]
William S. Burroughs [or William Seward Burroughs II] &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
This thinker described wrestling as “a sort of mythological fight between Good and Evil,” with “an orgy of evil” being necessary to make it entertaining. For 10 points each:
Identify this author of Mythologies. He claimed that “to give a text an author is to impose a limit on that text” in the essay The Death of the Author.
Anthropologist Heather Levi is known for studying lucha libre, a type of wrestling from this country. Levi and Gabrielle Murray have linked lucha libre traditions to Aztec rituals historically practiced in this country.
Luchadors typically wear these distinctive costume pieces, which, according to Levi, allow the wrestler to become a national symbol. Claude Levi-Strauss wrote about The Way of [these things] as they relate to Native American tribes in the Pacific Northwest.
Roland Barthes [roh-LAWN BART]
Mexico [or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; or United Mexican States]
masks [or The Way of the Masks] &lt;TB, Social Science&gt;
This town’s schoolhouse, which was designed by Yost van Houten, is described as being similar to an “eel-pot,” since a thief might easily get in but have trouble getting out. For 10 points each:
Name this glen adjacent to Tarry Town, known for its supernatural activity, which is sometimes blamed on a High German doctor or a Native American prophet. It contains a tulip tree named for the traitor Major Andre.
“The Legend of Sleepy Hollow” appears in this author’s collection The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, which also contains this author’s story “Rip Van Winkle.”
The most notable ghost in Sleepy Hollow is this figure, who is said to have been a Hessian soldier killed by a cannonball. This figure hurls a pumpkin at Ichabod Crane and is heavily implied to be Brom Bones in disguise.
Sleepy Hollow [accept “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow”]
Washington Irving
the Headless Horseman [prompt on a partial answer] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
In one satirical work by this poet, the reporter Birdofredum Sawin loses parts of his body in the violence of the Mexican-American War. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Biglow Papers. This Fireside Poet is best known for his satire, as seen in his humorous analyses of other poets in A Fable for Critics.
James Russell Lowell is a relative of the poet Robert Lowell, who wrote a poem about visiting a “Quaker” one of these places “in Nantucket,” where he pays respects to the tombstone of a “drowned sailor.”
Both of those poets are related to Amy Lowell, a leader of the imagist movement. This other imagist poet compared “faces in the crowd” to “petals on a wet, black bough” in “In a Station of the Metro.”
James Russell Lowell
graveyard [accept “The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket”; accept cemetery]
Ezra Pound [or Ezra Loomis Pound] &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
Donald Keene’s translation of this work states that “the months and days are the travelers of eternity.” For 10 points each:
Name this travelogue, which depicts a poet’s travel to Ogaki during the Edo period. It uses the form of haibun, a mix of prose and poetry.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North was written by this master of haiku, who described a frog jumping into a pond in another poem.
Basho was a poet from this Asian nation. Another poet from here, Saigyo, used the tanka style in poems like “Winds of Autumn” and “Not Stopping to Mark the Trail.”
The Narrow Road to the Deep North [or Oku no Hosomichi]
Matsuo Basho
Japan [or Nippon, or Nihon] &lt;DB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
The protagonist of this novel becomes addicted to a dice game and later leaves his life of prosperity after having a dream in which he finds a dead songbird in a golden cage. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about the title Brahmin, who shares his name with the Buddha.
This German author of Siddhartha also wrote about Harry Haller’s struggle with his animalistic nature in Steppenwolf.
In Steppenwolf, Harry Haller visits this location, which is “for madmen only.” He stabs and kills Hermine in this location.
Siddhartha
Herman Hesse
the Magic Theater [or Magische Theater] &lt;WG, Long Fiction&gt;
Madame Forestier’s shock makes up the twist ending of this short story. For 10 points each:
Name this short story. In this story, Mathilde Loisel replaces an expensive possession lost at the Minister of Education’s ball, only to find out the original was merely a five-hundred-franc imitation.
This French short story author wrote “The Necklace.” Many of his stories, including “Boule de Suif,” take place during the Franco-Prussian War.
This Russian author wrote a preface for a Maupassant collection, in which he criticized Maupassant for his lack of Christian morality. In one of this writer’s stories, Pahom discovers that the only land he needs is a six-foot grave.
“The Necklace”
Guy de Maupassant [or Henri-Rene-Albert-Guy de Maupassant]
Leo Tolstoy [or Leo Nikoleyavich Tolstoy] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
Books are full of bad drivers. Answer these questions about car accidents in literature. For 10 points each:
In this novel, Charlotte Haze is run over by a Packard motor car after discovering her new husband is in love with her daughter, the “nymphet” Dolores.
In this novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald, Daisy Buchanan kills Myrtle Wilson in a car accident, although Myrtle’s husband blames the title character and shoots him in a swimming pool.
This author wrote about car accidents in several of his books, including one in which the title character hits his wife’s car and causes his son to lose an eye. This man also wrote The Cider House Rules.
Lolita
The Great Gatsby
John (Winslow) Irving [or John Wallace Blunt, Jr.] &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
At the end of this story within a story, Jesus kisses the title figure on the lips instead of offering a reply. For 10 points each:
Name this story that the cynical Ivan tells his brother Alyosha, a novice monk. In this story, the title figure argues that Christ was wrong not to succumb to Satan’s temptations in the desert.
The Parable of the Grand Inquisitor appears in this novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Ivan, Alyosha, and Dmitri are the three title siblings of this novel.
This Dostoyevsky novel begins with the unnamed narrator declaring “I am a sick man...I am a spiteful man.” He also points out that he is “unattractive” and has a “diseased” liver.
the Parable of the Grand Inquisitor [or any answer regarding a story about the Grand Inquisitor]
The Brothers Karamazov [or Bratya Karamazovy]
Notes from the Underground [or Zapiski iz podpol’ya; accept alternate synonymous translations] &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
While this character’s wife is away, he invites another woman over to have dinner, where they accidentally break a pickle dish. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who falls in love with Mattie Silver, but is unable to act on it due to his wife, Zeena. This character attempts suicide by crashing a sled into a tree.
Ethan Frome is a novel by this author, who often wrote about high society during the American Gilded Age, such as in the novel The Age of Innocence.
In this other novel by Wharton, the protagonist is exiled from high society after not giving romantic favors to Gus Trenor in exchange for money. This novel ends with the protagonist, Lily Bart, overdosing on chloral.
Ethan Frome [accept either]
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
The House of Mirth &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
In the even chapters of this novel, you attempt to read various fictional novels but never get past the first chapter, meaning you’d probably be very good at quizbowl. For 10 points each:
Name this Italo Calvino novel written in second person, in which you and Ludmila both attempt to read the title book.
In his essay “Why Read the Classics?,” Calvino recounts Michel Butor’s first time reading the books of this man. This author of La Bête Humaine wrote a cycle of novels about the Rougon and Macquart families.
In a Calvino novel, this man discusses the 55 title “invisible cities” with Kublai Khan. This medieval Italian explorer’s real adventures to China are recounted in his book Il Millione.
If on a Winter's Night a Traveler (or Se una Notte D'inverno un Viaggiatore)
Emile Zola
Marco Polo &lt;WG, Long Fiction&gt;
In one play, this character sends his friend Mnesilochus to spy on a female-only festival to learn about their discussions of this character’s writings. For 10 points each:
Name this main character of Thesmophoriazusae [thes-moh-fore-ee-ah-zuh-zay]. In another play, this character loses a contest to Aeschylus for “Best Tragic Poet” and is left in the Underworld by Dionysus.
Euripides appears in this play, where Dionysus and his slave Xanthias go to retrieve him from the Underworld in order to restore the quality of tragedy in Athens. The title figures of this play chant “brekekekex-koax-koax.”
The Frogs and Thesmophoriazusae were both written by this master of Greek Old Comedy, who also made fun of the Peloponnesian War in the play Lysistrata.
Euripides
The Frogs [accept Bátrachoi]
Aristophanes &lt;EA, Drama&gt;
This novel begins by noting that "ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically." For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which Constance has affairs with the Irish playwright Michalis and the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. A republication of this novel prompted an obscenity trial against Penguin Books.
This author of Lady Chatterley’s Lover also wrote about Elizabeth Bates learning of the death of her husband in his short story "Odour of Chrysanthemums."
In this other Lawrence short story, Paul repeatedly screams “Malabar” and dies of brain fever after winning eighty thousand pounds.
Lady Chatterley's Lover
D.H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence]
“The Rocking-Horse Winner” &lt;WG, Long Fiction&gt;
One character in this short story goes to the druggist to buy arsenic, and later has her house coated with lime to mask a smell. For 10 points each:
Name this short story, in which a single iron gray hair is found next to the corpse of Homer Barron.
This author of “A Rose for Emily” wrote about the Compson and Bundren families in his novels The Sound and The Fury and As I Lay Dying.
Both The Sound and The Fury and As I Lay Dying, as well as various other short stories and novels by Faulkner, are set in this state’s fictional Yoknapatawpha County.
“A Rose for Emily”
William Faulkner [or William Cuthbert Faulkner]
Mississippi &lt;WG, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
<em>Pearl</em>, an early allegorical poem of this type in English, is thought to be dedicated to the poet’s daughter, and describes how the title gem “slipped from me through grass to ground.” For 10 points each:
Name this genre of poem, a lament for someone who has died. Thomas Gray wrote one of these poems “in a country churchyard.”
This elegy by John Milton was written for his friend Edward King. Most of this poem is spoken by an “uncouth swain” who comes to pluck berries “harsh and crude” and instructs the title figure to “Look homeward, Angel.”
This poet wrote “tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all” in his elegy “In Memoriam A.H.H.” He described the title king’s desire “to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield” in a more famous poem.
elegy [or “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”]
“Lycidas”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred, Lord Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson] &lt;TB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
This author, the subject of the 2016 documentary <em>I Am Not Your Negro</em>, included a letter to his 14-year-old nephew in his book <em>The Fire Next Time</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who described John Grimes’s coming-of-age as a member of a Harlem Pentecostal church called the Temple of the Fire Baptized.
This Baldwin novel is narrated by David, an American expatriate living in France. In the novel, David recalls his first gay experience at a Brooklyn sleepover and ponders the title character’s impending execution.
In Giovanni’s Room, Giovanni is executed with this machine. In A Tale of Two Cities, Sydney Carton switches places with Charles Darnay and is killed by this apparatus in Paris during the Reign of Terror.
James Baldwin [or James Arthur Baldwin]
Giovanni’s Room
guillotine &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
In this book, the title figure undergoes “the process” at the hands of his friend Shorty and describes the origins of his prison nickname, “Satan.” For 10 points each:
Name this book that, despite its title, was written by Alex Haley after a series of interviews with the title figure, who describes his street-hustling days as “Detroit Red” before starting a correspondence with Elijah Muhammad.
When Shorty gives Malcolm “the process,” he is performing this action, which is accomplished with a concoction of potatoes and lye. Malcolm calls this action “my first really big step toward self-degradation.”
Malcolm conks his hair while living in this Massachusetts city. In another episode from the Autobiography, Malcolm discovers a Crispus Attucks monument in this city’s Common.
The Autobiography of Malcolm X [prompt on partial answer]
straightening hair [or relaxing hair; or conking hair; or applying a conk; accept word forms]
Boston [or Boston Common] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
Name some authors who have won the Hugo Award for Best Novel in science fiction. For 10 points each:
In 2001, this author won the award for her novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
This author’s numerous award-winning novels include The Gods Themselves and Foundation’s Edge, which this author wrote 30 years after finishing his original Foundation trilogy of novels.
This other prolific science fiction author has won the award six times, the most out of any authors. This author’s winning novels include Stranger in a Strange Land and The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress.
J.K. Rowling [or Joanne Rowling; prompt on Robert Galbraith]
Isaac Asimov
Robert A(nson) Heinlein &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
In this novel, Cardinal Richelieu plans to use some diamond studs to expose an affair between the Queen and the Duke of Buckingham, only to be foiled by D’Artagnan and company. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Alexandre Dumas, whose title characters are Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.
One of the main antagonists of The Three Musketeers is this woman, a spy for Richelieu and Athos’s estranged wife. She tries on multiple occasions to have D’Artagnan killed.
In Dumas’s novel The Count of Monte Cristo, this character takes on the title identity after escaping from the Chateau d’If.
The Three Musketeers [or Les Trois Mousquetaires]
Milady de Winter [or Charlotte Backson; or Anne de Breuil; or Comtesse de La Fere, or Lady Clarick; accept any underlined name]
Edmond Dantes [accept either underlined name] &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
For 10 points each, answer the following about poems by Edwin Arlington Robinson.
This poem by Robinson describes a “gentleman from sole to crown” who “one calm summer night...put[s] a bullet through his head.”
“Richard Cory” is a part of an E.A. Robinson collection titled for [these people] of the Night. These people title a Yeats poem that ends by asking “How can we know the dancer from the dance?”
The Children of the Night contains 5 poems of this type. These 14-line poems, which feature an octet and a sestet, come in varieties named for Shakespeare and Petrarch.
“Richard Cory”
children [or The Children of the Night; or “Among School Children”]
sonnet [or a Shakespearean sonnet; or a Petrarchan sonnet] &lt;DB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
In this novel, a woman recalls how a picture of her and a black servant girl carrying her school bag turned up in a <em>Life</em> coffee table book. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which the Smales family flees their home in a yellow “bakkie,” or truck. This novel ends with a woman running towards an unidentified helicopter.
July’s People is the best-known novel of this author, who won the Booker Prize for her book The Conservationist. She also won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1991.
Gordimer is a native of this country, where her works were often suppressed by pro-apartheid politicians. In Gordimer’s novel Burger’s Daughter, a group of white activists plots to overthrow this nation’s government.
July’s People
Nadine Gordimer
Republic of South Africa [or the Union of South Africa] &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
In this play, the valium-addicted Harper Pitt imagines going to Antarctica, where she meets Mr. Lies and sees the ozone hole. For 10 points each:
Name this Tony Kushner play about the lawyer Roy Cohn, which is separated into the sections “Millennium Approaches” and “Perestroika.”
Throughout the play, Roy Cohn is haunted by the ghost of this figure, whom he had tried for espionage. Along with Louis Ironson, this figure prays the kaddish following Roy’s death.
In order to avoid being stigmatized for having this disease, Roy claims to have liver cancer. In the play, Roy hoards AZT, which can be used to treat this sexually transmitted disease.
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
Ethel Rosenberg [accept either underlined portion]
AIDS [or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or HIV or human immunodeficiency virus] &lt;WG, Drama&gt;
This character forces his sickly young son Linton to marry Catherine, and when Linton dies shortly afterwards, he inherits Catherine’s estate. For 10 points each:
Name this diabolical landlord, who rents out Thrushcross Grange to Mr. Lockwood in the frame story of a certain novel.
Heathcliff’s initial love for the elder Catherine Earnshaw, and subsequent revenge on her family, who wronged him, is the subject of this only novel by Emily Brontë.
Wuthering Heights is mostly told from the perspective of this housekeeper and servant at Thrushcross Grange, who details her experience with the Earnshaws to Mr. Lockwood.
Heathcliff
Wuthering Heights
Nelly Dean [accept either] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
Eric Korngold’s score for this movie was lauded for its innovative application of Wagnerian leitmotifs and other operatic features. For 10 points each:
Name this film. An iconic scene in this film sees its protagonist, played by Errol Flynn, climb up the vines on a castle wall to meet his love at her balcony.
In The Adventures of Robin Hood, Robin wins an archery contest by using his last arrow to do this action to his opponent’s arrow. One stuntman claimed that the first arrow was made from bamboo to make it extra wide.
After the archery contest, Robin is arrested by Sir Guy of Gisbourne, played by Basil Rathbone. Rathbone is better known for his portrayal of this detective in films like The Hound of the Baskervilles.
The Adventures of Robin Hood
splitting the arrow with his own arrow [accept similar answers]
Sherlock Holmes [accept either] &lt;DB, Other Fine Arts&gt;
While on this vehicle, a man tells the story of how his fascination with maps led to him making a boat trip into Africa. For 10 points each:
Name this “cruising yawl” on the Thames. This boat is the frame setting of a novel about Marlow’s expedition for the sailor Kurtz.
Marlow searches for Kurtz in this novel. At the end of this novel, Marlow conveniently tears off the postscript reading “Exterminate all the brutes!” from Kurtz’s personal pamphlet before giving it to Kurtz’s wife.
Heart of Darkness is a novel by this British-Polish author.
the Nellie
Heart of Darkness
Joseph Conrad [or Józef Teodor Konrad Korzienowski] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
A family’s coat of arms in this short story depicts a foot stepping on a snake that bites its heel, and that family’s motto is "Nemo me impune lacessit." For 10 points each:
Name this short story, in which Montressor imprisons Fortunato after promising him the title wine.
This author of “The Cask of Amontillado” wrote a poem in which the title bird perches “on the pallid bust of Pallas” and repeatedly says “Nevermore.”
In Poe’s short story “Hop Frog,” the title character dresses the king and his seven ministers as these animals. In “The Murders in the Rue Morgue,” one of these animals commits a double homicide.
“The Cask of Amontillado”
Edgar Allen Poe
orangutans &lt;WG, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
One character from this novel is appointed governor of the fictional island of Barataria by a duke and duchess and rides the donkey Dapple. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, in which the title delusional knight from La Mancha is defeated by the Knight of the White Moon, and mistakes windmills for giants.
In one story from this collection by the author of Don Quixote, a character eats a love potion laced with quince, causing him to believe he is made of glass. In another story from this collection, a man suffering from syphilis witnesses two dogs discussing mankind.
This Spanish Golden Age author wrote both the Exemplary Novels and Don Quixote.
Don Quixote [accept The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha; accept El Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quijote de La Mancha]
Exemplary Novels [or Novelas Ejemplares]
Miguel de Cervantes &lt;WG, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
Answer some questions about Nobel laureate Kazuo Ishiguro, for 10 points each.
Most of Ishiguro’s novels, like The Buried Giant and Never Let Me Go, are set in this country, where Ishiguro moved to as a kid. Other Nobel Prize winners from this country include John Galsworthy and Winston Churchill.
In Never Let Me Go, the main characters Kathy, Ruth, and Tommy all have this characteristic. In the novel, people with this characteristic become “donors” so that their organs can be harvested.
Ishiguro’s novel The Remains of the Day follows Stevens, who works for the Lord Darlington as one of these people. P.G. Wodehouse wrote stories that featured Jeeves, a famous one of these people.
United Kingdom [accept Great Britain or England]
they’re clones
butler [prompt on servant] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
One work of this type tells the “children of the Fatherland” to “Arise...the day of glory has arrived!” and is known as <em>La Marseillaise</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this type of literary and musical work, other examples of which include O Canada and The Star-Spangled Banner.
This other national anthem is addressed to “the ruler of the minds of all people,” telling them that “the saving of all people waits in thy hand.” The author of this anthem also wrote the national anthem Amar Sonar Bangla.
This Indian author wrote India’s national anthem Jana Gana Mana. He became the first Indian Nobel laureate for his collection Song Offerings, or Gitanjali.
national anthems [prompt on anthems]
Jana Gana Mana [accept Bharoto Bhagyo Bidhata]
Rabindranath Tagore [accept Rabindranath Thakur] &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
One bespectacled character in this novel is often ridiculed for his “ass-mar,” or asthma. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by William Golding about a group of English schoolboys stranded on a deserted island. In this novel, Jack and Ralph emerge as rival leaders.
The physical “Lord of the Flies” is the head of one of these animals, which Jack leaves as an offering for the Beast. An epileptic boy imagines a dead one of these animals speaking to him and saying “I’m part of you, close, close, close!”
This boy, who is prone to seizures, talks to the Lord of the Flies. This boy is killed after being mistaken for the Beast during a ritual dance, then floats out to sea surrounded by glowing fish.
Lord of the Flies
pigs
Simon &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
This character gets cornered on a rooftop water tower after a citywide police chase. For 10 points each:
Name this man who accidentally kills Mary Dalton. In a frenzy to hide the body, this character decapitates and burns her body in her house’s furnace in the novel Native Son.
Native Son is a novel by this African-American author who also wrote the collection Uncle Tom’s Children.
In the third section of Native Son, this Communist lawyer chooses to represent Bigger in court, where he frames Bigger’s actions as a product of systemic oppression of African-Americans in Chicago and American society.
Bigger Thomas [accept either name]
Richard Wright [or Richard Nathaniel Wright]
Boris Max [accept either name] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
In this short story, a character formally known as Adolph Myers is chased out of a Pennsylvania town. For 10 points each:
Name this first chapter of a larger work, centering on the “restless activity” of the title body parts of Wing Biddlebaum.
“Hands” is the first chapter of this Sherwood Anderson short story collection named for a fictional midwestern town. George Willard appears in many stories in this collection.
A chapter of Winesburg, Ohio titled for people with this profession centers on George Willard and Kate Swift’s relationship. Wing Biddlebaum worked in this profession prior to being accused of molesting a student.
“Hands”
Winesburg, Ohio
teachers &lt;WG, Long Fiction&gt;
In “Tangled Up in Blue,” this author describes a book by “an Italian poet from the 13th century,” in which “every one of them words rang true / and glowed like burning coal.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote “Tangled Up in Blue” for his album Blood on the Tracks. This man, who won the 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature, also wrote the songs “Like a Rolling Stone” and “The Times They Are A-Changin.”
In a 1978 interview, Dylan implied that the 13th century Italian poet from “Tangled Up in Blue” is this author known for writing love sonnets to Laura in Il Canzoniere, even though this man wasn’t born until 1304.
In another Blood on the Tracks song, Dylan alludes to the romantic relationship between Paul Verlaine and this other French Symbolist poet. This poet of “The Drunken Boat” wrote A Season in Hell.
Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]
Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]
Arthur Rimbaud [or Jean Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud] &lt;TB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
One character in this short story sees “strange” and “unfamiliar” constellations and compares the sound of a watch to a “blacksmith's hammer upon the anvil.” For 10 points each:
Name this short story, in which Peyton Farquhar imagines escaping execution at the title location and returning to his plantation.
This author of “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge” wrote about a deaf, mute boy learning that his house has been set on fire in the short story “Chickamauga.”
In this other short story by Bierce, the title chess playing robot kills its creator.
“An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge”
Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce
“Moxon’s Master” &lt;WG, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
This character tells his master “You taught me language, and my profit on it is, I know how to curse.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, a son of Sycorax who is forced to serve the sorcerer Prospero. This character describes the “noises, sounds, and sweet airs” of his native island in a notably tender speech.
Caliban appears in this William Shakespeare play, in which Ferdinand falls in love with Prospero’s daughter Miranda after a shipwreck.
In this author’s play A Tempest, Caliban is reimagined as a rebellious black slave who demands to be called X, since his true name has been stolen. This Martinican author was a co-founder of the negritude movement.
Caliban
The Tempest
Aimé Césaire [or Aimé Fernand David Césaire] &lt;TB, Drama&gt;
The last short story in this collection ends by describing the faintly falling snow. For 10 points each:
That story, “The Dead” appears in this short story collection about residents of the title city.
This Irish author of Dubliners paralleled the Odyssey in a novel in which Leopold Bloom wanders around Dublin on June 16, 1904. That novel is Ulysses.
In this short story from Dubliners, one character reads the poem “The Death of Parnell,” and political canvassers discuss National Party mayoral candidate Richard Tierney.
Dubliners
James Joyce [or James Augustine Aloysius Joyce]
“Ivy Day in the Committee Room” &lt;WG, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
Name some things that authors talk about when they talk about stuff. For 10 points each.
Terri discusses her abusive relationship and Mel discusses his past experiences in love with Nick and Laura in this American author’s short story “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love.”
Nathan Englander used Carver’s story as inspiration for “What We Talk About When We Talk About” this person. This person wrote about her experiences during the Holocaust in her Diary of a Young Girl.
This other author discussed his love with long-distance running in the memoir What I Talk About When I Talk About Running. His novels include The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.
Raymond Carver [or Raymond Clevie Carver Jr.]
Anne Frank [accept Annelies Marie Frank]
Haruki Murakami [accept in either order] &lt;EA, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
In this play, a ghost from the slaveholding Sutter family returns to haunt the Charles family, whom he once owned. For 10 points each:
Name this play, in which Berniece exorcises the ghost by playing the title instrument.
The Piano Lesson was written by this African-American playwright. He wrote about garbage collector Troy Maxson in his play Fences.
Literal and figurative ghosts of slavery appear in both The Piano Lesson and Beloved, a novel by this author. This author’s play Dreaming Emmett dramatized the lynching of Emmett Till, a teenage boy.
The Piano Lesson
August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel]
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Anthony Wofford] &lt;DB, Drama&gt;
In this poem, Lizzie warns her sister Laura that “you should not peep at” the title creatures. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, in which the title creatures implore maids to “come buy, come buy.” Lizzie is “trod and hustled, elbowed and jostled” as the title beings try to force her to eat their fruit.
“Goblin Market,” by Christina Rossetti, was a foundational text of this art movement. Rossetti’s brother Dante Gabriel was a founder of this movement, which is named for its rejection of a namesake Renaissance painter.
The Pre-Raphaelites labeled this British Romantic poet of “Ode on a Grecian Urn” one of their “Immortals.” This man’s ballad “La Belle Dame sans Merci” frequently inspired Pre-Raphaelite visual art.
“Goblin Market”
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites]
John Keats &lt;TB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
This character is imprisoned in a human zoo with the actress Montana Wildhack in a Kurt Vonnegut novel. For 10 points each.
Name this protagonist of Slaughterhouse-Five. He is abducted by Tralfamadorians while attending the Ilium School of Optometry.
Billy is an American soldier in this war. Elie Wiesel wrote the memoir Night about living in a concentration camp during this war.
Billy is introduced to the works of Kilgore Trout by this recurring Vonnegut character. In a novel about this character, he wills his massive fortune to 57 children before going on trial for insanity against Norm Mushari.
Billy Pilgrim [accept either underlined portion]
World War II
Eliot Rosewater [accept either; accept God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
Answer the following about some classic literary satires. For 10 points each:
This Irishman wrote A Tale of a Tub, in which three brothers represent three branches of Christianity. He also wrote about the title physician’s voyages to Lilliput and Brobdingnag in Gulliver’s Travels.
This French author satirized an optimistic philosopher with a character who exclaims “we live in the best of all possible worlds!” That character created by this author contracts syphilis from the maid Paquette.
This book by Petronius Arbiter is one of the earliest surviving examples of Menippean satire. This book includes a description of an obscenely opulent dinner given by Trimalchio.
Jonathan Swift
Voltaire
Satyricon [or Satyricon Liber; or Satyrica] &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
Novels in this literary genre include Ann Radcliffe’s <em>The Mysteries of Udolpho</em> and Clara Reeve’s <em>The Old English Baron</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this genre characterized by decaying castles, seemingly supernatural phenomena, and vulnerable female protagonists. Carson McCullers’s work is associated with the “Southern” type of this genre.
The earliest Gothic novel is often said to be this book by Horace Walpole. This novel opens with Manfred’s son Conrad being crushed by a giant helmet.
Later Gothic fiction often featured these monsters, such as John Polidori’s Lord Ruthven. Bram Stoker created one of these monsters named Dracula.
Gothic [or “Southern Gothic”]
The Castle of Otranto: A Gothic Story
vampires &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
The speaker of this poem claims to have “measured out [his] life with coffee spoons.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem which asks “Do I dare to eat a peach?” and “Do I dare disturb the universe?” This poem begins by declaring “Let us go then you and I.”
This poet of “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” included the sections “Death by Water” and “What the Thunder Said” in his poem “The Waste Land.”
In “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock,” the speaker describes squeezing “the universe into a ball” in an allusion to this other poem which describes two characters rolling all their “sweetness into one ball.”
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”
Thomas Stearns Eliot [or T. S. Eliot]
“To His Coy Mistress” &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
George Walkden has argued that this word more likely means “How” rather than “So!,” which is what Seamus Heaney used in his translation of the work it appears in. For 10 points each:
Give this original-language word that begins an epic whose hero saves the mead hall Heorot from being attacked by a descendant of Cain.
The word “hwæt” opens this epic, whose hero helps the king Hrothgar by killing the evil Grendel and his mother. The title Danish warrior of this epic is eventually killed by a dragon.
Beowulf was written in the “old” version of this language. The transition between the “middle” and “modern” forms of this language is seen in the works of authors like William Shakespeare.
hwæt [huh-wait] [be forgiving on pronunciations, prompt on “Ho!” or “Listen!” or any other word along the lines of getting people’s attention]
Beowulf
English [accept Old English, Middle English, or Modern English] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
While all plays have actors, name some things about plays that have to do with actors! For 10 points each:
This character hires an acting troupe to perform “The Mousetrap,” a play about the murder of Gonzago. During the performance, Claudius runs out after being reminded of his guilt for murdering this man’s father.
Rehearsal for the play Mixing it Up is interrupted by the title characters in this Italian author’s play Six Characters in Search of an Author.
In this play, an actress calls a play written by her son “decadent rubbish.” That play within this play features Satan, as represented by “two glowing red points” and the smell of sulfur.
Hamlet
Luigi Pirandello
The Seagull [or Chayka] &lt;EA, Drama&gt;
This author used the term “mojo wire” to refer to a fax machine he used to send in his reports in <em>Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail ‘72</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who fictionalized himself as Raoul Duke in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. He also wrote “The Kentucky Derby Is Decadent and Depraved” for Scanlan’s Monthly.
Thompson is the most famous practitioner of the “Gonzo” form of this discipline. While working in this field, Nellie Bly went undercover in an asylum and wrote about it in Joseph Pulitzer’s New York World.
Thompson had a long-running relationship with this magazine founded by Jann Wenner. This magazine is known for its coverage of rock music and for its left-wing political commentary by writers like Matt Taibbi.
Hunter S. Thompson [or Hunter Stockton Thompson]
journalism [or Gonzo journalism; or investigative journalism]
Rolling Stone &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
The author of this poem values a person who “can make one heap of all [their] winnings and risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss” as he discusses someone who “can keep their virtue.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that lists a series of virtues before exhorting that “Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it, and–which is more–you’ll be a Man, my son!”
“If–” was written by this Victorian author, whose time living in India inspired his more famous work The Jungle Book.
This other poem by Kipling tells the reader to “Go mark them with your living...and with your dead” as they “send forth the best ye breed.” This racist poem’s title became a phrase closely associated with late European colonialism.
“If–”
Rudyard Kipling
“The White Man’s Burden” &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
<em>Description acceptable.</em> This character overdoses on sleeping pills only to be revived by having her stomach pumped and her blood entirely re-circulated. For 10 points each:
Name this character, who spends the majority of her time watching three wall-sized televisions and interacting with the actors on-screen using scripts she receives in the mail.
Mildred Montag appears in this Ray Bradbury novel. In this novel, the teenager Clarisse McClellan rubs a dandelion under the fireman Guy Montag’s chin to test if Guy is in love with anyone.
Guy eventually switches off the parlor televisions and reads this Matthew Arnold poem to Mildred’s friends, causing one of them to cry. This poem ends by describing “a darkling plain” where “ignorant armies clash by night.”
Mildred Montag [or Mildred; or Mrs. Montag; or “Guy Montag’s wife”; prompt on “Montag”]
Fahrenheit 451
“Dover Beach” &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
The Nowell Codex contains a complete rendition of this work in 3182 lines. For 10 points each:
Name this Old English epic about the title hero’s quest to save Hrothgar’s mead-hall from the monster Grendel.
Despite the existence of the codex, the use of formulaic elements in the text suggest that Beowulf may have been composed as part of this kind of literary tradition, as opposed to a written tradition.
Serious debate also persists over the date of the poem’s composition. This philologist and author of Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics maintains it must have been an 8th century composition.
Beowulf
oral tradition [accept verbal and other equivalents]
J.R.R. Tolkien &lt;Drama, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In one poem, this author portrays ancestors as “fools in old-style hats and coats, / Who half the time were soppy-stern / And half at one another’s throats.” For 10 points each:
Name this English poet of “The Whitsun Weddings” and “This Be the Verse,” whose earlier works are written under the pseudonym Brunette Coleman.
In his poem “Aubade,” Larkin illustrates this concept as “the anaesthetic from which none come round.” This figure “kindly stopped for” the speaker in an Emily Dickinson poem.
In this other Dickinson poem, the title creature breaks “the stillness in the room” and stumbles “between the light” and the speaker, who “could not see to see.”
Philip Larkin
Death
“I Heard a Fly Buzz– When I Died–” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about the use of a certain substance as a symbolic element in literature:
Conrad Aiken wrote a short story about a schizophrenic young man Paul who constantly daydreams about this substance. That story is titled for “silent” and “secret” types of this substance.
In this author’s novel Snow Country, snow symbolizes the purity that the protagonist Shimamuro seeks in his travels and his affair with the geisha Komako.
Orhan Pamuk, an author from this country, chronicled the life of the poet Ka in his novel Snow. Pamuk described growing up in this country in his personal memoir Istanbul.
snow (accept “Silent Snow, Secret Snow”)
Yasunari Kawabata
Turkey &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A poem about one of these places states “and all I ask is a merry yarn from a laughing fellow-rover, / and quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick’s over.” For 10 point each:
Name this place whose “fever” is described by John Masefield. In an Edgar Allan Poe poem, Annabel Lee lived in a kingdom by this place.
The sea is described as “calm tonight” in this poem by Matthew Arnold.
In “Dover Beach,” the narrator says that “we are here as on” a plain described by this adjective. In “Ode to a Nightingale,” the speaker states “this word, I listen” and notes that he has “been half in love with easeful Death.”
the sea
“Dover Beach”
darkling &lt;Non-epic poetry, KLei&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
One character in this play has a dream where he tries to steal golden eggs from a bird’s nest. For 10 points each:
Name this play, where the valet Jean convinces the title daughter of the Count to commit suicide with a razor blade.
Miss Julie was written by August Strindberg, a playwright from this country. Strindberg often drew from his own life in writing plays, including his childhood in Stockholm.
In this other play by Strindberg, the title character throws a burning lamp at his wife when she argues that their daughter Bertha should become an artist.
Miss Julie
Sweden
The Father &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This monumental work of vernacular English literature opens with the line “when April with its sweet-smelling showers has pierced the draught of March to its root.” For 10 points each:
This collection of 24 stories includes the Knight’s Tale and the Pardoner’s Tale and was written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
Chaucer may have drawn inspiration for The Canterbury Tales while reading this work on a diplomatic trip to Italy. This collection of 100 tales was written in the Italian vernacular by Giovanni Boccaccio.
The use of vernacular languages in the late medieval era broke from the tradition of writing in this language to reach a wide readership. It was used by Rustichello da Pisa to write the Adventures of Marco Polo.
The Canterbury Tales
The Decameron
Old French [prompt on French] &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In a write to his agents this character’s creator said this character’s “earth longings” were not “to represent insanity at all but the inarticulate and powerful yearnings of all men.” For 10 points each:
Name this character, who yearns to live off “the fatta the lan’ ” and take care of rabbits. At the end of the work in which he appears, he is shot by George after accidentally strangling a woman in a barn.
Lennie appears in Of Mice and Men, a novel by this author of The Grapes of Wrath and East of Eden.
In Steinbeck’s Dustbowl trilogy, Of Mice and Men is preceded by this novel, whose title is taken from Paradise Lost. This novel centers on the lives of Mac McLeod and Jim Nolan during a fruit-growers’ strike.
Lennie Small [prompt on Small]
John Steinbeck
In Dubious Battle &lt;Long Fiction, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A poem by this author states “I cultivate a white rose / In June as in January… For the cruel person / Who would want to break my heart.” For 10 points each:
Identify this author of “Nuestra America” and the collection Versos Sencillos, which contains the patriotic song “Guantanamera.”
In his essay “Nuestra America,” Martí expressed his devotion to the independence of this country, his homeland. Martí was born in Havana, the capital city of this country.
Another Cuban author was Alejo Carpentier, who pioneered this literary genre through his novel The Kingdom of this World. This genre is characterized by fantastical elements combined with a realistic perspective of the world.
José Martí
Republic of Cuba
magical realism [accept marvelous realism, do not accept or prompt on realism] &lt;Non-epic Poetry, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A character in this work treasures a cigarette case she found on the road. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that focuses on a doctor’s wife and her affairs with Leon and Rodolphe. At the end of the novel, that woman commits suicide by eating arsenic.
Madame Bovary was written by this French author of A Sentimental Education.
In Madame Bovary, Emma is devastated when her dog of this name runs away. In Hugo’s The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Esmeralda’s pet goat has this name.
Madame Bovary
Gustave Flaubert
Djali &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Answer the following about pig in literature, for 10 points each:
George Orwell’s Animal Farm sees this pig become leader of Manor Farm after the Battle of the Cowshed. He eliminates his rival Snowball and takes credit for plans to build a windmill in an allegory for the Great Turning.
This children’s novel by E.B. White chronicles the friendship between a pig named Wilbur and a barn spider.
One of the main characters in this modern-day retelling of the Iliad is Major Plunkett, a pig farmer who researches the history of St. Lucia.
Napoleon
Charlotte’s Web
Omeros &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A character in this work spitefully likens his father to a “broken spider trying to do the quickstep” and represents the ideal world as a dance floor without collisions. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Sam and Hally’s friendship is symbolized by a shabby kite.
Master Harold...and the Boys was written by Athol Fugard, a compatriot of this author. She wrote such novels as Burger’s Daughter and July’s People.
Fugard and Gordimer both hailed from this country and addressed its policy of apartheid in their works.
Master Harold...and the Boys
Nadine Gordimer
South Africa &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
For 10 points each, answer these questions about traditional women’s clothing from Asia.
Name this traditional Japanese garment that is wrapped around the body and secured from the back by a sash called an obi. It is commonly worn by Japanese women today, most popularly on special occasions.
The internet exploded in May 2018 when an American girl wore this type of traditional Manchu Chinese dress to a high school prom. It was heavily popularized by upper-class women in 1920s Shanghai.
Women from the Indian subcontinent often wear the Sari draped over this garment, a midriff-baring blouse.
kimono
qipao [accept cheongsam]
choli [accept ravike (South India) and cholo (Nepal)] &lt;Other Fine Arts, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In one of this author’s poems, a man attempts to trade a horse for a woman’s house, to which the woman responds “now I am not I, / nor is my house now my house.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who repeated “Green, how I want you green” in “Romance Sonambulo.” This Spanish poet also wrote the plays Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba.
Garcia Lorca addressed the “New York of cables and death” in an ode to this man, who gave “boys / drops of dirty death with bitter poison.” This poet wrote the collection Leaves of Grass, which includes “Song of Myself.”
Another Garcia Lorca poem recalls “a sad breeze through the olive trees” in a “Lament” for one of these people who died “at five in the afternoon.”
Federico García Lorca
Walt Whitman
bullfighter [accept “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter,” also accept toreador or torero] &lt;Non-epic Poetry, EL and OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In one scene, this character sleepwalks and cries “Out, damned spot!” while she attempts to get rid of an invisible blood stain. For 10 points each:
Name this Shakespearean character who convinces her husband to kill King Duncan.
In Macbeth, this figure was “from his mother’s womb untimely ripped.” This Thane of Fife suspects Macbeth of murder and kills him in the final act of the play.
In Act II, Macduff and Lennox perform this action, the subject of a Thomas de Quincey essay. In that scene, a drunk porter imagines that this action is committed by a farmer and a tailor.
Lady Macbeth [do not accept or prompt on “Macbeth”]
Macduff
knocking at the gate of the castle [accept reasonable equivalents] &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Aphra Behn’s <em>Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and his Sister</em> was one of the first novels to experiment with the conventions of this genre. For 10 points each:
Name this genre in which a novel is written as a series of documents without an omniscient narrator.
Nikolai Gogol made use of the epistolary form in Diary of a Madman, where the protagonist believes that two of these animals are secretly corresponding when nobody is watching.
Another notable example of the epistolary form is this 1897 work by Bram Stoker, which follows the adventures of Jonathan Harker and Abraham van Helsing as they battle the title vampire.
epistolary novel
dogs
Dracula &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Darkness, madness, death – what fun! Name some things about Gothic literature, for 10 points each:
This first Gothic novel of Horace Walpole ends with the lord Manfred murdering his own daughter Matilda.
In this Gothic Charlotte Brontë work, Edward Rochester is revealed to be married to the madwoman Bertha Mason, who is locked in the attic without the knowledge of Rochester’s new fiancée.
The narrator of this Gothic and early feminist short story goes mad after being confined to a rest-cure by her husband John, and observes moving figures in the title decoration.
The Castle of Otranto
Jane Eyre
“The Yellow Wallpaper” &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Carl Jung praised this novel for “allow[ing] the drama of growth, being, and decay to pursue its course.” For 10 points each:
Name this James Joyce work, ending with a soliloquy delivered in eight massive sentences. This novel focuses on Stephen Dedalus and Leopold and Molly Bloom.
Joyce’s final work is this confusing novel that begins “riverrun, past Eve and Adam’s…” Though plot summaries vary, it is agreed that the novel focuses on Anna Livia Plurabelle and Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker.
Joyce also wrote the collection Dubliners, which includes this story about a girl who attempts to escape her father by going to Buenos Aires with Frank.
Ulysses
Finnegans Wake
“Eveline” &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Gabriel repeatedly calls Bono “the King of the Jungle!” during this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which former baseball player Troy Maxson is reluctant to let his son, Cory, accept a football scholarship.
Fences is part of the “Pittsburgh Cycle,” a collection of plays by this American author of The Piano Lesson.
This first installment in the “Pittsburgh Cycle” recounts Citizen Barlow’s spiritual journey to the City of Bones with the help of Aunt Ester. In this play, a policeman named Caesar shoots a former slave named Solly Two Kings.
Fences
August Wilson
Gem of the Ocean &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This work begins with the declaration “Everything is good as it leaves the hands of the Author of things; everything degenerates in the hands of man.” For 10 points each:
Name this five-part treatise which describes the education of an ideal citizen. It was published a year after the author’s novel Julie, or the New Heloise.
Name this Genevan author of Émile who also penned The Social Contract.
Émile was banned and publicly burned due to a section titled for one of these ecclesiastical representatives, a bishop’s deputy.
Émile, or On Education
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
The Profession of Faith of a Savoyard Vicar &lt;Philosophy, DY&gt;&lt;ed. AH&gt;
This poem may have been based on a Suzuki Harunobu ukiyo-e print. For 10 points each:
Name this very short poem which reads in its entirety: “The apparition of these faces in the crowd; / Petals on a wet, black, bough.”
“In a Station of the Metro” was written by Ezra Pound, who found inspiration in Japanese art as well as poems from this country, such as those written by Tang Dynasty poet Du Fu.
This novelist drew on her experiences living in China to write Dragon Seed and The Good Earth, for which she became the first American woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
“In a Station of the Metro”
China
Pearl S. Buck &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
One of this writer’s stories ends with the maids fretting over how to tell Conradin that his guardian has been killed by a polecat ferret, while he calmly butters his toast in the dining room. For 10 points each:
Name this Edwardian author of many mischievous and often gruesome short stories, including “Sredni Vashtar” and “The Open Window.”
Saki’s pen name derives from the “Eternal Saki,” a cupbearer from this series of quatrains by Omar Khayyam. A section in this work praises “a book of verses underneath the bough, a jug of wine, a loaf of bread – and thou.”
The Rubaiyat was given its name by this 19th Century English poet, whose translation of the work begins with the command “Wake!”
Saki [accept Hector Hugh Munro]
The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
Edward FitzGerald &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC and AB&gt;
Négritude is an anti-colonial intellectual movement seeking to promote a Pan-African racial identity through a Marxist framework. For 10 points each:
One of the founders of the movement was this Martinician poet and essayist who wrote a postcolonial interpretation of The Tempest in which Caliban is the hero.
This writer analyzed the Négritude movement in his essay “Orphée Noir.” This French existentialist philosopher also wrote Nausea and No Exit.
Négritude was strongly influenced by this American artistic and literary movement. Prominent Négritude poet Leopold Senghor praised Claude McKay as the founder of this movement.
Aimé Césaire
Jean-Paul Sartre
Harlem Renaissance [do not accept or prompt on “Renaissance”] &lt;Non-epic Poetry, JB&gt;&lt;ed. OC and AB&gt;
This play begins with a prologue given by the ghost of Machiavelli, who cries “Birds of the air will tell of murders past!” For 10 points each:
The protagonist of this work poisons all the nuns in a convent, including his daughter Abigail. He later dies by falling into a boiling cauldron.
The cauldron was actually set up as a trap for this character. The governor of Malta, Ferneze, confiscates all of Barrabas’ wealth to pay off this Turkish prince after Barrabas refuses to convert to Christianity.
The Jew of Malta is by this English author. He also wrote about the title character selling his soul to Mephistopheles in Doctor Faustus.
The Jew of Malta
Calymath
Christopher Marlowe &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
The Great Comet of 1812 is a recent Broadway adaptation of this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this long Tolstoy work, which is set during Napoleon's invasion of Russia and features the convoluted love life of Natasha Rostova.
Natasha's engagement to Prince Andrey is broken after an attempted elopement with this man, who is rumored to have had an affair with his sister Hélène.
Hélène is the first wife of this other War and Peace character, who ends up marrying Natasha after failing to kill Napoleon.
War and Peace
Anatole Kuragin [prompt on Kuragin]
Pierre Bezukhov [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Long Fiction, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
One character in this novel is nicknamed “Storm Trooper” and performs radio calisthenics at six-thirty every morning. For 10 points each:
Name this novel centering around Toru Watanabe’s relationships with Naoko and Midori.
Norwegian Wood was written by this Japanese author of The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle and Kafka on the Shore.
In Kafka on the Shore, Nakata’s search for one of these animals leads him on an adventure with the truck driver Hoshino. The grinning “Cheshire” one of these animals appears in Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.
Norwegian Wood
Haruki Murakami
cat &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
One of this man’s works declares “The saving of all people waits in thy hands, / Thou dispenser of India's destiny. / Victory, victory, victory to thee.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who described a place “where knowledge is free” in his collection Gitanjali.
In this Tagore poem, the speaker sits “on the river bank, sad and alone” and mournfully tells the title object “take away my golden paddy when you sail.”
Tagore’s “Jana Gana Mana” and his “Amar Shonar Bagla” became two works of this type. Francis Scott Key wrote a poem that later became one of these works.
Rabindranath Tagore (Also accept: Rabindranath Thakur)
“The Golden Boat”
national anthem &lt;Non-epic Poetry, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This man declared “to be a Negro in this country and to be relatively conscious is to be in a rage almost all the time.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who wrote about an algebra teacher’s growing understanding of his heroin-addicted brother in “Sonny’s Blues.” He drew upon his experience as a preacher in his novel Go Tell it On the Mountain.
This contemporary and friend of Baldwin wrote about Bigger Thomas’ conviction after he accidentally smothers Mary Dalton in the novel Native Son.
In Native Son, Bigger rapes and kills this character by hitting her on the head with a brick and then throwing her into an air shaft.
James Baldwin
Richard Wright
Bessie Mears [prompt on Mears] &lt;Long Fiction, MX&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In a play titled after this animal, a character tries to commit suicide by claiming that he is “swimming to China.” For 10 points each:
Name this animal, which titles a play where Reverend T. Lawrence Shannon is accused of statutory rape while living in the Costa Verde Hotel run by Maxine Faulk.
This American playwright of The Rose Tattoo wrote The Night of the Iguana.
An old high school acquaintance named Jim O’Connor kisses Laura Wingfield at the end of this Williams play, which is named after Laura’s prized collection of miniature animals.
iguana [accept The Night of the Iguana]
Thomas Lanier “Tennessee” Williams
The Glass Menagerie &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Answer the following about trials in literature, for 10 points each:
This protagonist of Kafka’s The Trial seeks out Titorelli the painter for advice and is stabbed to death “like a dog” after being charged with an unknown crime.
During the trial of this Russian literary character, Katerina Ivanovna’s presentations shifts suspicion away from Smerdyakov. This brother of Ivan and Alyosha is then convicted of murdering his father.
Meursault is put on trial for shooting an Arab on a beach in this French-Algerian author’s novel The Stranger.
Josef K [prompt on partial answer]
Dmitri Karamazov [prompt on Karamazov]
Albert Camus &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In a Dylan Thomas poem, the narrator says that he is “dumb to tell the crooked” one of these flowers that his “youth is bent by the same wintry fever.” For 10 points each:
Name this subject of a Robert Burns poem in which he compares his love to a “red, red” one of these flowers.
In a William Carlos Williams poem titled for this flower, the speaker “was cheered” that “that there were flowers also / in hell.” In that poem, this flower is described as “like a buttercup … save that it’s green and wooden.”
According to a Blake poem, people “arise from their graves and aspire” where this flower “wishes to go.” Allen Ginsberg wrote a “Sutra” titled for this flower.
rose [accept “A Red, Red Rose”]
asphodel [accept “Asphodel, That Greeny Flower,” prompt on that Greeny Flower]
sunflower [accept “Ah! Sun-flower” or “Sunflower Sutra”] &lt;Non-epic Poetry, KLei&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
One character in this novel threatens to castrate himself in order to prove himself innocent of rape. For 10 points each:
Even-numbered chapters in this novel detail the bizarre soap operas of Pedro Camacho. This novel focuses on an employee of the radio station Panamericana and his romance with the title relative.
This Peruvian Nobel Prize laureate wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. He also wrote about Urania Cabral’s return to Santo Domingo in The Feast of the Goat.
Vargas Llosa’s The War of the End of the World portrays the fictional Canudos War of this country. The author of Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands originated from this country, where he studied law in Rio de Janeiro.
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter
Mario Vargas Llosa
Federative Republic of Brazil [the author is Jorge Amado] &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This captain has a new leg fashioned after he wrenches his ivory one leaving the <em>Samuel Enderby</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this monomaniacal captain of the Pequod. Fedallah prophesies that this character that he can only be killed by hemp.
Another literary sailor is Nemo, the captain of this ship in Jules Verne’s Twenty Leagues Under the Sea.
Jim Hawkins overhears this character talking to two other sailors while hiding in an apple barrel. This one-legged pirate is accompanied by the parrot Captain Flint and is the main antagonist of Treasure Island.
Captain Ahab
Nautilus
Long John Silver &lt;Long Fiction, JP&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This author wrote “Because of you my sweet girl’s eyes / are red with weeping, and swollen” in his eulogy for a dead sparrow. For 10 points each:
This poet described his brother’s death in a poem that ends with the exclamation “Hail and Farewell!” This Roman poet addressed many of his poems to his lover Lesbia.
Catullus was a noted admirer of this poet, whose works are collected in Anne Carson’s If Not, Winter.
Catullus wrote his poems in this language, the predominant language of the Roman Republic.
Catullus
Sappho
Latin &lt;Non-epic Poetry, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This character writes a play in which Satan is represented by two red dots and fumes of sulfur. For 10 points each:
Name this son of the haughty actress Irina Arkadina, who commits suicide after Nina reveals her love for his rival, the writer Boris Trigorin.
Konstantin appears in this play, which opens with Masha telling Medviedenko that she dresses in black to show her unhappiness. In this play, Konstantin shoots the title bird as a gift for Nina.
The Seagull is a work by this Russian playwright, who depicted the auction of Madame Ravensky’s estate in The Cherry Orchard.
Konstantin Treplev [accept either underlined portion]
The Seagull
Anton Chekhov &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This novel’s protagonist is beaten by his sister, Mrs. Joe, with a cane she calls the “Tickler.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel recounting the coming-of-age of Pip and his love for the cold Estella, who is revealed to be the illegitimate daughter of Abel Magwitch.
As a young boy, Pip frequently visits Satis House, which is owned by the eccentric Miss Havisham. Miss Havisham inhabits a room full of frozen clocks, refusing to move on from this earlier misfortune in her life.
Great Expectations was written by this author. He also wrote about the adventures of Snodgrass, Tupman, and Winkle in The Pickwick Papers and Ebenezer Scrooge in The Christmas Carol.
Great Expectations
being left at the altar [accept reasonable equivalents like her fiancé leaving her; prompt on wedding]
Charles Dickens &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A parable by Kafka reveals the “truth” about this character. For 10 points each:
In one scene, this character is rolled up in a carpet and thrown in the air after another character refuses to pay for a night in an inn. This faithful squire rides the donkey Dapple and helps in his master’s search for Dulcinea.
Sancho Panza accompanies this knight of a Miguel Cervantes novel who mistakes a host of windmills for giants.
In Don Quixote, a duke and duchess offer to make Sancho the governor of a village they call an “island” of this name.
Sancho Panza [accept either underlined portion]
Don Quixote [accept either part of Alonso Quixano]
Barataria &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This event beings with a flock of schoolchildren, including one with a last name intentionally pronounced “Dellacroy” picking up rocks. For 10 points each:
Name this event where Tessie Hutchinson is stoned to death in a village ritual as she cries “it isn’t fair!”
“The Lottery” is a short story by this American author who chronicled Eleanor Vance’s possession and death in The Haunting of Hill House.
In “The Lottery,” this man, a leading figure of the town, conducts the village’s square dances and teen club. He aids in the selection of a victim in the lottery.
the lottery
Shirley Jackson
Mr. Summers &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A character in this novel cries after losing her grandmother’s brooch. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, where a group of people including Mr. Ramsay undertake the title journey to a certain structure after Lily Briscoe finishes her painting.
In To The Lighthouse, Mr. Ramsay compares the progress of human thought to the alphabet, and laments that he has not gotten past this letter. Rushdie’s Shame is set in a town named for this letter of the alphabet.
To The Lighthouse is a novel by this author, who recounted the suicide of Septimus Smith and the title character reflecting on her kiss with Sally Seton in her novel Mrs. Dalloway.
To The Lighthouse
Q
Virginia Woolf &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
The position of U.S. Poet Laureate was established in 1985 to increase public appreciation of poetry, for 10 points each:
This first Poet Laureate described “wings dipping through / Geometries and orchids that the sunset builds” in “Evening Hawk.” He also wrote a novel ending with the death of Willie Stark, All the King’s Men.
Another Poet Laureate, W.S. Merwin, was the first winner of a poetry award named for this poet of “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird” and “The Emperor of Ice Cream.”
This woman has served as Poet Laureate since 2017. She is known for the poetry collection Life on Mars, which was influenced by David Bowie’s death.
Robert Penn Warren
Wallace Stevens
Tracy K. Smith &lt;Non-epic Poetry, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This character tells Creon that he is “sick… sick to death.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who warns Creon to bury Polyneices. Creon ignores the warning, leading to the death of his son, Haemon, and his wife, Eurydice.
In this other tragedy, Tiresias tells the title king of Thebes that he is responsible for the murder of his father Laius. That king blinds himself after realizing that he has also married his mother Jocasta.
This Greek playwright included Oedipus Rex, Oedipus at Colonus, and Antigone in his trilogy The Theban Plays.
Tiresias
Oedipus Rex [accept Oedipus the King]
Sophocles &lt;Drama, MX&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This character is uninvited from Mrs. Walker’s parties after she upsets the arrogant Mrs. Costello. For 10 points each:
Name this American socialite, the love interest of Frederick Winterbourne. In the work in which she appears, she is ostracized for her relationship with Mr. Giovanelli and dies of Roman Fever.
Daisy Miller is a work by this American author of Portrait of a Lady and The Turn of the Screw.
In Daisy Miller, Winterbourne is shocked by Daisy’s insistence that he accompany her to this location. Lord Byron wrote a narrative poem about “The Prisoner of” this place.
Daisy Miller [prompt on partial answer]
Henry James
Chillon Castle [accept Château de Chillon, prompt on castle] &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In this work, Rocky insists that he is not a pimp, while Margie and Pearl insist that they are “tarts,” not whores. For 10 points each:
Name this play centering around the pipe dreams of those inhabiting Harry Hope’s saloon. At the end of the play, the hardware salesman Hickey is arrested for murdering his wife Evelyn.
The Iceman Cometh was written by this American playwright of Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
O’Neill also wrote this play cycle in which Orin kills Captain Brant for having an affair with his mother Christine, prompting Christine to kill herself.
The Iceman Cometh
Eugene O’Neill
Mourning Becomes Electra &lt;Drama, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
The subject of this poem is described as the “beautiful spark of Divinity” and the “Daughter from Elysium.” For 10 points each:
Name this jubilant poem that exclaims “Be embraced, Millions!” and is set to music in Beethoven’s final symphony.
“Ode to Joy” is by this German poet who recounted the rivalry between brothers Franz and Karl Moor in his play The Robbers.
This other German Romantic poet recounted how “the boatman / Is seized by [a melody] with a savage woe” and is dragged to his death by a mermaid in “Die Lorelei.”
“Ode to Joy”
Friedrich von Schiller
Heinrich Heine &lt;Non-epic Poetry, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In a poem partially titled for this city, the speaker describes “trouble with a gold-flecked beautiful banner.” For 10 points each:
Name this city. A poem that describes an “old yellow pair” who “eat beans mostly” appears in a poetry collection that illustrates a fictional portrayal of this city, A Street in Bronzeville.
The author of A Street in Bronzeville, Gwendolyn Brooks, became the first African American to win this prize for poetry in 1950. In 2018, Kendrick Lamar won this prize for music for his album DAMN.
This other poet described Chicago as a “Hog Butcher for the World” and a “Stacker of Wheat.” He also declared “Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo” in his poem “Grass.”
Chicago
Pulitzer Prize
Carl Sandburg &lt;Non-epic Poetry, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
The protagonist of this work meets his future wife Laura Trevelyan at Mr. Bonner’s party. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that ends with the unveiling of a statue made in the image of the title German explorer.
Voss is a novel by Patrick White, who often utilized this narrative mode that interweaves the narrator’s thoughts and feelings with the actual events of the novel.
The aforementioned Voss tried to cross the dry Outback region of this country, White’s country of origin. The author of Schindler's Ark, Thomas Kearney, also originated from this country.
Voss
stream of consciousness
Australia &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
A character in this play lectures for the Wannafeller Moral Reform World League. For 10 points each:
Name this play, where Henry Higgins attempts to reform Eliza Doolittle by ridding her of her Cockney accent.
Pygmalion is a work by this Irish playwright, who also wrote about the title character quitting the Salvation Army in Major Barbara.
In Act III, after finding out about her son’s insensitive behavior with Eliza, Miss Higgins shouts this word three times repeatedly.
Pygmalion
George Bernard Shaw
men [accept “Men, men, men!”] &lt;Drama, AK and MX&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Physical features in this town include Wiley’s Swamp and Andre’s Tree. For 10 points each:
Name this town in the Catskill Mountains. One of its inhabitants, Doffue Martling, claims to have single- handedly destroyed a British ship during the Revolutionary War.
The “Legend of Sleepy Hollow” appears in this author’s The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon. He wrote about Mateo Ximenes in Tales of the Alhambra.
Another Irving work is about this title character, who wakes up from a twenty-year sleep to learn of the death of his wife and the occurrence of the American Revolution.
Sleepy Hollow [accept “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow”]
Washington Irving
Rip Van Winkle [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In Edward Arlington Robinson’s poem “The Master,” this man “Met rancor with a cryptic mirth Laconic—and Olympian.” For 10 points each:
Walt Whitman’s poems “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” and “O Captain! My Captain” eulogize what 16th President of the United States?
George Saunders’ Lincoln in the Bardo won the 2017 edition of this prestigious prize, which is awarded to the best novel written in English each year.
“Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight” is by this poet who instructed a bass drum to be beaten at the beginning of his masterpiece “General William Booth Enters Into Heaven.”
Abraham Lincoln
Man Booker Prize for Fiction
Vachel Lindsay &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JB&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This man was condemned to continuously gnaw at the brains of the Archbishop Ruggieri, who locked him up with his sons in the Tower of Hunger. For 10 points each:
Name this Pisan naval commander who Dante accused of treason in the Divine Comedy. It is ambiguous as to whether he ate his sons.
Ugolino appears in Dante’s Inferno and is found in the 9th Circle of this location, where Satan chews on the bodies of Judas, Brutus, and Cassius.
Dante is guided through Hell by Virgil, who is condemned with all the other righteous pagans to this first circle of Hell traditionally reserved for unbaptized infants.
Ugolino de Gherardesca
Hell [accept underworld]
Limbo &lt;Long Fiction, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
After moving west, a character in this novel makes a living as a tombstone engraver and nude model for an art school. For 10 points each:
Oskar Matzerath is the glass-shattering protagonist of this novel, whose title refers to his most prized possession.
The Tin Drum is partially set during this war, which annihilates Oskar’s hometown. Gunter Grass’s memoir Peeling the Onion discusses his service in the Waffen SS, an armed branch of the Nazi Party during this war.
In The Tin Drum, Oskar Matzerath leads this gang of street urchins that conducts raids on the offices of the SS.
The Tin Drum
World War II
The “Dusters” &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
At the end of this work, a character tells her husband that she has found a new apartment, prompting him to reveal that their stillborn child was a boy. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Shoba and Shukumar rekindle their marriage when their power goes out five nights in succession. This story was published as the first in the collection The Interpreter of Maladies.
The Interpreter of Maladies was written by this author of The Namesake. She recently translated her short story “The Boundary” from Italian for the New Yorker.
Many of Lahiri’s works center around her roots in Calcutta, a city in this country. Other authors from this country include Vikram Seth and Salman Rushdie.
“A Temporary Matter”
Jhumpa Lahiri
India &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
This work begins by addressing “You who hear in scattered rhymes the sound of those sighs.” For 10 points each:
This collection of 366 poems includes many poems in a fourteen-lined sonnet form named for its author.
This Italian humanist and poet authored Il Canzoniere. He wrote about climbing a mountain in a letter to his former confessor, “Ascent of Mount Ventoux.”
The poems of Il Canzoniere are often addressed to this mysterious woman, whose existence has not been confirmed. This woman is the dedicatee of many of Petrarch’s love poems and allegedly died on Good Friday.
Il Canzoniere [accept Rime Sparse]
Petrarch [accept Francesco Petrarca]
Laura &lt;Non-epic Poetry, AH&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
As a punishment for stealing the peaches of immortality, this character is locked in a cauldron for forty-nine days, where he develops huo yan jin jing, or “golden-gaze fiery-eyes.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who uses the golden-banded staff Jingu Bang to defend Tang Seng.
In one story, Sun Wukong must acquire a fan from a princess named for this metal because her fan can put out fires from a nearby volcano.
Sun Wukong appears in this work, one of China’s four great novels. It was written by Wu Cheng’en.
Sun Wukong [prompt on partial answer, accept Monkey King]
iron [accept tie shan gongzhu]
Journey to the West [or Xi You Ji] &lt;Long Fiction, KLei&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Symbolism in this author’s story “Bliss” includes a flowering pear tree and a “rare fiddle.” For 10 points each:
Name this modernist writer who penned a short story in which Jug and Con cope with the death of their tyrannical father, “The Daughters of the Late Colonel.”
Mansfield settled in the UK at the age of nineteen, where she became friends with this author of “The Rocking Horse Winner” and Sons and Lovers.
This controversial novel by Lawrence details Constance’s affair with Oliver Mellors at Wragby, her crippled husband’s estate.
Katherine Mansfield
David Herbert Lawrence
Lady Chatterley’s Lover &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
At the end of this novel, Nancy goes mad and can only say the word “shuttlecock” after learning of her idol’s affairs with many women, including La Dolciquita and Maisie Maidan. For 10 points each:
Name this novel which begins “this is the saddest story I have ever heard.” John Dowell narrates this novel, which follows the Ashburnams at a spa in Nauheim.
The Good Soldier was written by Ford Madox Ford, an author from this literary group of disillusioned expatriates in the early 20th century. Its name was coined by Gertrude Stein.
Another prominent Lost Generation writer is this author of This Side of Paradise and The Great Gatsby.
The Good Soldier
Lost Generation
F. Scott Fitzgerald &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
The frame story of this work involves Mr. Yunioshi’s discovery of a wooden carving of a girl’s head in the African village Tococul. For 10 points each:
Name this novella centering around the eccentric society girl Holly Golightly, who was played by Audrey Hepburn in a 1961 movie adaptation.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s was written by this American writer who pioneered the true crime genre with his novel In Cold Blood, which details the murder of four members of the Clutter family.
This first novel by Capote takes place at Skully’s Landing and focuses on the thirteen-year-old Joel Harrison Knox.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s
Truman Capote
Other Voices, Other Rooms &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
Following Gerald Ford’s refusal to bail New York City out during its fiscal crisis, some <em>New York Times</em> readers took to submitting poetry. For 10 points each:
One amateur poet wrote “Spare me your tired, your poor” in a riff on this poet whose line “Give me your tired, your poor” begins her sonnet “The New Colossus.”
Another reader wrote in to say “No town is” one of these things, spoofing John Donne, who wrote that “no man is” one of these geographical features. One of these features belongs to Dr. Moreau in a Robert Stevenson novel.
Writers of the Times fictionalized Arthur Burns’ concern over the bailout in a roundelay, a poetic form with an offshoot named for this Restoration poet. This author wrote The Hind and the Panther and Marriage à la Mode.
Emma Lazarus
island [accept “No man is an island” or The Island of Dr. Moreau]
John Dryden &lt;Non-epic Poetry, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In a work by this author, Amina is hit by a car and fractures her collarbone, prompting her tyrannous father to exile her from the house. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Thief and the Dogs and a trilogy of novels including Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street.
Mahfouz hails from this country, the setting of the aforementioned Cairo Trilogy.
This revolutionary protagonist of The Thief and the Dogs is heartbroken by his estrangement from his daughter Sana and unsuccessfully seeks revenge on his former wife Nabawiyya.
Naguib Mahfouz
Egypt
Said Mahran [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
In this work, Merry plants a bomb in the post office and goes into hiding with the help of her speech therapist Sheila. For 10 points each:
Name this novel recounting the ruination of Seymour “the Swede” Levov, narrated by Nathan Zuckerman.
American Pastoral was written by this Jewish-American author of Goodbye, Columbus. His most famous novel centers around a character who tells Dr. Spielvogel about his sexual escapades, Portnoy’s Complaint.
Roth set Goodbye, Columbus in this home state of his. William Carlos Williams wrote an epic poem named Paterson about a city in this state.
American Pastoral
Philip Roth
New Jersey &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
The speaker of one of this author's poems listens to a song that “in [his] heart [he] bore, / Long after it was heard no more”. For 10 points each:
Name the poet of “The Solitary Reaper”. He also wrote how “little we see in Nature...is ours” in “The World is Too Much With Us.”
This poem by Wordsworth opens by noting that “five years have past” since he last visited the title location. It describes an abandoned church on the river Wye.
In work of this type titled “Intimations of Immortality”, Wordsworth described “a time when meadow, grove and stream”... “did seem / Apparelled in celestial light”. Another work of this type asks “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?”
William Wordsworth
“Lines Composed a Few Miles above Tintern Abbey, On Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during a Tour. July 13, 1798”
ode
Literature has played crucial roles in upholding human rights and addressing social issues. For 10 points each:
In 2018, Turkish author Aslı Erdoğan [ER-doh-WAN] won this human rights award, given to those who fight for gender equality and basic rights. This award shares its name with the first and last name of the feminist author of The Second Sex.
This author earned a Pen/Faulkner award for detailing the life of the fictional reclusive author Bill Gray in Mao II. In this man’s novel White Noise, Babette Gladney takes the drug Dylar to treat her fear of death.
This semi-autobiographical Mario Vargas Llosa work lambasts the Peruvian dictator Manuel Odria and follows the minister Santiago Zavala and his chauffeur Ambrosio. It takes its title from a meeting near the title bar.
Simone de Beauvoir Prize [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
Don DeLillo
Conversation in the Cathedral [or Conversación en la catedral]
One poem by Paul Verlaine describes how he is “pale as with pain” and “breath fails [him]” during this season. For ten points each:
Name this time period that is described in another poem as a “season of mists and mellow fruitfulness”.
Paul Verlaine, the author of “Autumn Song”, was a member of this artistic and literary movement. This movement’s other members included Arthur Rimbaud and Stephane Mallarme, and it focused heavily on metaphors and images.
Rimbaud compared himself to a drunken one of these objects, which is “thrown...into the birthless air” despite being “as fragile as a May butterfly.” W H Auden describes how the reflection of stars are “tossed” and “distorted” in a poem titled after this type of object.
autumn [accept fall and other equivalents.]
Symbolism [or Symbolist]
boat [accept equivalents; accept “The Drunken Boat” or “In a Boat”]
In this author’s most famous novel, a cat breaks a glass pickle dish. For 10 points each:
Name this author of “Roman Fever” who ended a novel with the revelation that a sledding accident leaves a character and his lover terribly crippled.
In the aforementioned novel, Ethan Frome first notices Mattie dancing while wearing a scarf of this color. A pony of this color titles a Steinbeck work that documents Jody and Carl Tiflin’s life on a Salinas Valley ranch.
After delivering some lumber to Andrew Hale, Ethan Frome notices one of these objects belonging to an ancestor who shares his name. The inscription on this object indicates the ancestor was married for 50 years, causing Frome to reflect on his own relationship with his wife Zeena.
Edith Wharton
red [or cherry or scarlet]
tombstone or gravestone [accept equivalents]
This author wrote about a hyena’s death in “Esmé”. For ten points each:
Name this short story writer, who took his common pen name from the Rubaiyat. He wrote about a girl whose speciality was “Love at short notice” in his “The Open Window.”
In “Tobermory,” Cornelius Appin successfully teaches one of these creatures to talk, and its incendiary gossip angers Appin’s guests. Alonzo, Mungojerrie, and Rumpleteazer are all types of these creatures that appear in a another poetry collection.
Saki was born in this modern-day country during the rule of the British Raj. More contemporary authors from this country include the author of A Suitable Boy, Vikram Seth.
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
cats
India
The speaker of this poem cries “how clumsy this winged voyager! How weak/Comic, and ugly!” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that starts by noting how often sailors will ensnare the titular bird, a “soarer of celestial snows.”
“The Albatross” and “The Swan” are parts of this larger collection of Charles Baudelaire’s poems, which also contains sections like “Spleen and Ideal.”
Les Fleurs du Mal begins by describing this figure as hypocritical. This figure is a “delicate monster” that Baudelaire calls “my likeness! My brother!”
“The Albatross” [or “Le Cygne”]
Les Fleurs du mal [or The Flowers of Evil]
the reader
This figure tries to sell his friend some chocolate covered cotton after cornering the Egyptian cotton market. For ten points each,
Name this head of the M&amp;M syndicate, which makes money by buying eggs for high prices and selling them for low prices. This mess hall officer eventually ends up making deals with the enemy to bomb his own camps.
Milo tries to sell this protagonist chocolate covered cotton during Snowden’s funeral. This character sits naked in a tree during that funeral, leading the chaplain to believe he is a ghost.
Milo Minderbinder and Yossarian appear in this war novel by Joseph Heller.
Milo Minderbinder (Accept either underlined part)
Yossarian
Catch-22
Madame Koto asks the protagonist of this work to visit her bar, believing it will bring good luck. For ten points each,
Name this work by Ben Okri which sees the Party of the Rich campaign against the equally corrupt Party of the Poor. It follows an Abiku named Azaro and won Okri the Man-Booker prize in 1991.
This literary field emphasizes political and cultural freedoms and includes the works of Ben Okri and other Nigerian authors such as Chinua Achebe and Wole Soyinka. Advanced by thinkers such as Edward Said and Frantz Fanon, this field frequently critiques British imperial rule by drawing on themes of racism and subjugation under oppressive conditions.
Indigenous postcolonial authors from this country include James and David Unaipon, the latter of whom wrote the first comprehensive collection of this country’s native mythology in Legendary Tales of the Aborigines.
The Famished Road
post-colonial literature [prompt on “colonization”]
Australia
<strong></strong> One of this poem’s namesakes hunts a deer, boar, and fox while the other kisses that man’s wife on three days; they exchange animals and kisses at the end of each day. For 10 points each:
Name this bob-and-wheel poem in four “fits,” centering on a beheading contest.
Sir Gawain was among the knights who sat at this king’s Round Table. His death titles a Thomas Mallory book.
A pentangle is found on Gawain’s object of this type, which prompts the narrator to list a series of “five fives.” An ekphrasis on the one owned by Achilles describes two beautiful cities on the second of its nine layers.
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
King Arthur Pendragon [or Artorigus; accept La morte d’Arthur or The Death of Arthur]
shield [or targe or whatever archaic synonym a player gives]
<strong></strong> The protagonist Hurtle Duffield works in this profession in the novel <em>The Vivisector</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this profession in which men like Yoshihide and Basil Hallward also worked.
The author of The Vivisector, Patrick White, comes from this country. Another writer from this nation, Thomas Keneally, explored racism against Aboriginals in The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith
Another Australian author, Peter Carey, won acclaim for writing a “true history” of this Australian bushranger who wore a homemade suit of armor.
artist [accept clear equivalents, such as painter]
Australia
Ned Kelly
<strong></strong> For 10 points each, answer some questions about <em>Beloved</em>.
Before her death, Baby Suggs became fixated on these things, requesting Sethe to bring them to her bedroom. She associates one of these things with Beloved’s cradle, and another with her bloody death.
This author of Beloved also penned The Bluest Eye and Song of Solomon.
This black protagonist of The Bluest Eye suffers from low self-esteem because of her appearance. In one scene, she drinks quarts of milk to reveal Shirley Temple’s beautiful face at the bottom of the bottle.
colors
Toni Morrison
Pecola Breedlove [accept either name]
<strong></strong> Chinese Nobel Laureate Mo Yan named his novel about a family of sorghum brewers after this color. For 10 points each:
Identify this color which also titles a novel that opens with the murder of the artist Elegant Effendi. This color, a corpse, a coin, and the Devil are narrators of that work.
Elegant Effendi appears in the book My Name is Red, a work by this Nobel-winning author of Snow and The Museum of Innocence.
My Name is Red is set in this empire during the reign of Sultan Murat III.
red
Orhan Pamuk
Ottoman Empire
<strong></strong> The 2017 winner of this award is the novel <em>Lincoln in the Bardo,</em> while the 2016 winner is <em>The Sellout.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this prestigious award for English language books, originally awarded only to British authors.
This winner of the Booker Prize was awarded the 2017 Nobel Prize for Literature for works like Never Let Me Go. His most recent novel, published in 2015, is called The Buried Giant.
The book for which Ishiguro received the Booker Prize, The Remains of the Day, sees the butler Stevens visit this character who had previously worked with him as housekeeper of Darlington Hall.
Man Booker Prize for Fiction
Kazuo Ishiguro
Miss Kenton
<strong></strong> Answer the following about a storytelling contest in Switzerland that produced several classics of horror fiction. For 10 points each:
During the event, John Polidori told a preliminary version of “The Vampyre” and cited this man as inspiration for the story. This author wrote Don Juan and “She Walks in Beauty.”
In “The Vampyre,” Aubrey meets the probable vampire Lord Ruthven in this city before traveling to Greece. In The Secret Agent, Verloc tries to stop a bomb from going off here.
This novel by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley was also introduced at the story contest. In this novel, the title scientist Victor creates a monstrous being who reads works like Paradise Lost and The Sorrows of Young Werther.
Lord Byron
London
Frankenstein: or, The Modern Prometheus
<strong></strong> Answer some questions about literary lawgivers. For 10 points each:
A St. Bernard is raised in a life of luxury by Judge Miller in this Jack London novel that follows the adventures of the Buck.
The dignified Hepzibah Pyncheon refuses the financial support of her cousin Judge Jaffrey Pyncheon in this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel about the titular cursed mansion.
This judge commits suicide in desperation after Jack Burden blackmails him in Robert Penn Warren’s book All the King’s Men. Unbeknownst to Jack, this judge is actually his father.
The Call of the Wild
The  House of the Seven Gables
Judge Irwin
<strong></strong> Answer questions about literature from the Indian subcontinent, for 10 points each:
This author wrote the Indian national anthem Jana Gana Mana as, well as the poetry collection Gitanjali.
This work centers on the two incestous twins Rahel and Estha who cause the death of their cousin Sophie Mol when their boat capsizes.
Jhumpa Lahiri’s collection Interpreter of Maladies features stories set both in India and this country. In “This Blessed House,” Sanjeev remembers Twinkle dancing drunkenly in the streets of New York in this country.
Rabindranath Tagore
The God of Small Things
United States of America [or obvious equivalents]
<strong></strong> This character is introduced as a “sensible, intelligent young woman, about 27”. For 10 points each:
After her best friend Elizabeth rejects Mr. Collins’ marriage proposal, he turns tail and proposes to this character. Against Elizabeth’s wishes, this character gratefully accepts the proposal.
Charlotte Lucas appears in this author’s Pride and Prejudice. She also wrote Sense and Sensibility and Persuasion.
In this other Austen work, the title character plays matchmaker. She sets up the common Harriet Smith and gentlemen Mr. Elton, when Mr. Elton was interested in the title character all along.
Charlotte Lucas [accept either name]
Jane Austen
Emma
<strong></strong> Chaim [HAYM] Topol, rather than Zero Mostel, starred in the 1971 film adaptation of this work. For 10 points each:
Name this 1964 musical depicting Jewish life in the fictional Russian village of Anatevka.
This protagonist of Fiddler on the Roof asks God, “What would have been so terrible if I had a small fortune?”. He pretends to have a nightmare in order to get his wife Golde [GOAL-deh] to agree to their daughter’s marriage to Motel [MAH-toll] the Tailor.
This Yiddish author’s stories about Tevye the Dairyman formed the basis for the plot of Fiddler on the Roof.
Fiddler on the Roof
Tevye
Sholem Aleichem [accept Solomon Naumovich Rabinovich]
<strong></strong> For 10 points each, answer the following about coming-of-age novels centering around Jewish characters:
The Adventures of Augie March sees the title character enlist in the military before being stranded after his ship sunk. It was written by this author of Humboldt’s Gift and Herzog.
A Mordecai Richler novel centers on the apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz, a property-obsessed boy growing up in this city’s St. Urbain Street idolizing a crippled drug trafficker named Jerry Dingleman.
Philip Roth’s novel Goodbye, Columbus takes place partially in this city. This city is also where most of the plot of The Catcher In the Rye takes place.
Saul Bellow
Montreal
New York City
<strong></strong>This novel, like many others by its author, is set in the fictional county of Wessex. For 10 points, name…
This novel detailing Michael Henchard’s illicit relationship with Lucetta. In this work, both Henchard and Donald Farfrae hold the titular position, the latter highly knowledgeable of all things grain and corn.
This author of The Mayor of Casterbridge also wrote about Bathsheba’s reluctant marriage to William Boldwood after Sergeant Troy’s death in Far from the Madding Crowd.
Thomas Hardy’s ashes was buried in this famous section of Westminster Abbey. Both Geoffrey Chaucer and Ted Hughes are also memorialized in this area.
The Mayor of Casterbridge
Thomas Hardy
Poet’s Corner
<strong></strong> For 10 points each, answer the following about superfluous men in literature:
Diary of a Superfluous Man was a novel by this man often credited with developing the archetype. This man also wrote the collection A Sportsman’s Sketches.
This author of A Hero of Our Time, which also employed a superfluous man archetype, accused Turgenev of plagiarising him in Diary of a Superfluous Man.
Turgenev and Lermontov were both from this country, also home to authors such as Gogol, Tolstoy, and Dostoevsky.
Ivan Turgenev
Mikhail Lermontov
Russia
<strong></strong> Answer the following about the Heinemann African Writers Series. For 10 points each:
The series published Some Monday For Sure by this author of Burger’s Daughter and The Conservationist. This author wrote another novel in which the Smales family flees to a rural village with their servant, July’s People.
The Heinemann Series also published several works by authors including David Diop and Ousmane Sembene who used this language. Leopold Sedar Senghor, a president of Senegal, was elected to the Paris-based Academy that oversees this language’s development.
This Rhodesia-raised author had her The Grass is Singing published in the African Writers Series. Her other works include The Good Terrorist and The Golden Notebook.
Nadine Gordimer
French
Doris Lessing
<strong></strong> One of this author’s characters is a journalist for William Randolph Hearst’s newspaper. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about “General” Tomas Arroyo’s attempt to take possession of the Miranda family hacienda. However, Arroyo is stopped by the titular elderly American.
Apart from The Old Gringo, Fuentes also wrote The Death of Artemio Cruz, in which the titular character’s secretary presents these items to prove his secret dealings with foreign businessmen. One of these items also titles a Beckett play whose protagonist uses them to reminisce about his younger self.
The Old Gringo is said to be based off of this real life author. This author fought in the American Civil War, crossed the Mexican-American border in search of Pancho Villa, and died in a Mexican civil war.
Carlos Fuentes (Macias)
audiotapes
Ambrose Bierce
<strong></strong> A porter in this play pretends to be from hell and talks about the type of people that he would meet there. For 10 points each:
This play that details the title character’s rise to power, aided by his power-hungry wife. This play takes place in Scotland during the Middle Ages.
Shakespeare wrote Macbeth under the reign of this king, the son of Mary, Queen of Scots. This successor of Elizabeth I survived an attempt on his life during the Gunpowder Plot.
Shakespeare published Macbeth in this book, the most reliable source for his plays. Ben Jonson wrote the preface to this collection that also included The Tempest, Two Gentlemen of Verona, and King Lear.
Macbeth
James I [accept James VI; prompt on “James”]
First Folio
<strong></strong> One person from this industry infiltrated the Hells Angels biker gang in order to write a book. For 10 points each:
Name this field whose practitioners included muckrakers like Ida Tarbell.
This book, an exemplar of gonzo journalism, features characters like Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo. Both take a lot of drugs as they go on a series of adventures in the title “city of greed.”
This journalist wrote Hell’s Angels and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. He pioneered the aforementioned gonzo journalism, which allows the reporter to be involved in the story they investigate.
journalism
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
Hunter (Stockton) Thompson
<strong></strong> Name some authors and works that makes use of crude humor and inappropriate language. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about a giant who drowns Paris in urine and helps a friar create a church in his The Life of Gargantua and of Pantagruel.
This author wrote about how “Nicholas just then let fly a fart” in Absalom's face in one part of his Canterbury Tales. He more appropriately wrote of Scipio Africanus guiding the narrator through The Parliament of Fowls.
The aforementioned act occurs during this character’s story, which follows the Knight’s tale. This character claims he is too drunk to be held accountable for what he says.
Francois Rabelais
Geoffrey Chaucer
The Miller [accept the Miller’s Tale; accept Robin]
<strong></strong>One of this book’s characters was discovered to have disappeared from all government records after another character does not find his name on the chess club members list. For 10 points each:
Name this book about an everyman named Winston Smith, who repeatedly tries to join the Brotherhood but is eventually betrayed by a member of the thought police.
George Orwell, the author of 1984, also wrote this essay, a metaphor for British imperialism. It follows a police officer in Burma tasked with the titular duty.
Orwell documented poor Lancashire and Yorkshire working conditions in this sociological investigation. The titular structure was used for coal loading before being shut down in 1929.
Nineteen Eighty-Four
Shooting an Elephant
The Road to Wigan Pier
<strong></strong> This figure was cursed by the rishi Durvasa for failing to greet him correctly and causes her future husband to lose his memories about her. For 10 points each:
Name this legendary female figure who partly titles a work by Kalidasa. She was the mother of king Bharata and the lover of king Dushyanta.
While washing her hands in a river, Shakuntala loses this object, which a fisherman recovers for her. This object helps the king remember her.
Shakuntala was a figure from this country’s mythology. It was home to Kalidasa and other Sanskrit poets.
Shakuntala
her ring
India
<strong></strong> James Baldwin criticized this book in his essay “Everybody's Protest Novel.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose protagonist dies in the hands of George Shelby. This book is subtitled “Life among the Lowly.”
This slave owner in Uncle Tom’s Cabin argues with his sister Ophelia over the merits of slavery. At the end of the novel, he frees all of his slaves, Tom included.
Besides Uncle Tom’s Cabin, Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote this novel following Nina Gordon and her drunk, inhumane slave-owning brother Tom. It is subtitled for a forested wetland between Virginia and North Carolina.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin
Augustine St Clare [accept either]
Dred: A Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp
<strong></strong> This character from German legend is the subject of many works, For 10 points each:
Name this character, who makes a deal with Mephistopheles and can do anything that he desires. However, he must give up his soul if he shows any signs of pleasure while on Earth.
This German playwright wrote the one adaption of the Faustian legend. In his work, Faust is escorted to Heaven by Angels before the Devil can take his soul.
In a Thomas Mann work, this Faust-like composer contracts a disease after a brothel visit and makes a pact with a devilish character in order to gain 24 years of musical brilliance.
Faust [also accept Doctor Faustus]
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Adrian Leverkühn [accept either]
<strong></strong> The Cree tell of one of these animals which a crane took to ride the moon. For 10 points each:
Name this animal often seen in the moon as a pareidolia and in folklore, particularly as a companion of Chang’e in Chinese legend. One punches a Tar Baby and gets stuck, but is thrown into the briar patch by a less witty rival.
Brer Fox schemes with Brer Bear to get the better of Brer Rabbit in the stories collected by Joel Chandler Harris which he published under this name.
While caught in a trap, Brer Rabbit tricks Brer Bear into switching places with him by claiming that he is being paid a dollar a minute to work at this “job.” Description acceptable.
rabbit [accept Jade Rabbit; accept Brer Rabbit]
Uncle Remus
scarecrow [or descriptions]
In this work, John Felton is seduced by the murderer of Constance Bonacieux, who tries to steal a diamond brooch. For 10 points each:
Name this work in which D'Artagnan joins Athos, Aramis, and Porthos to foil the plot of Milady de Winter.
The Three Musketeers was written by this French author who also narrated the exploits of Edmond Dantes in The Count of Monte Cristo.
Dumas’s son wrote this novel about Armand’s affair with Marguerite, which was adapted by Giuseppe “Joe Green” Verdi into the opera La Traviata.
The Three Musketeers [or Les trois mousquetaires]
Alexandre Dumas
The Lady of the Camellias [or La Dame aux Camélias]
One of this author’s characters is a Bollywood actor whose frequent roles include Hindu deities. For 10 points each:
Name this author. He also wrote about his travels to Nicaragua in a work that documents the rise of the Sandinistas under the backing of the Catholic Church and Jimmy Carter.
Besides the aforementioned Satanic Verses and The Jaguar Smile, Rushdie also famously wrote this novel following magical children born the night of India’s independence. Parvati-the-witch and Shiva “of the knees” are two characters that the protagonist encounters.
The protagonist of Midnight’s Children, Saleem Sinai, uses this body part to telepathically gather children across India. He is also able to sense the emotions of those around him thanks to this magical body part.
Salman Rushdie
Midnight’s Children
his (runny) nose
The title group of this poem “Plunged in the battery-smoke”, with “Cannon to right of them / Cannon to left of them”. For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the six hundred ride “Half a league, half a league / Half a league onward”.
This poet of “The Charge of the Light Brigade” called nature “red in tooth and claw” in his poem In Memoriam A.H.H.
Tennyson adopted a Shakespeare character to narrate this poem. The title character repeats “I am aweary, aweary, / I would that I were dead!” while waiting for her lover.
“The Charge of the Light Brigade”
 Alfred, Lord Tennyson
“Mariana”
According to this character, even “when you know you're licked before you begin...you begin anyway and see it through no matter what.” For 10 points each:
Name this Maycomb County lawyer and the father of Scout and Jem. He takes his own advice and defends the falsely accused Tom Robinson against the Ewells.
This daughter of the town drunk Bob Ewell accuses Tom of rape. She charges Tom for beating her after she makes advances on him, but Atticus notes that only the left-handed Bob could have left bruises on her right side.
This novel by Harper Lee features the aforementioned characters as well as the reclusive “Boo” Radley.
Atticus Finch [accept either]
Mayella Ewell
To Kill a Mockingbird
A lost treatise on comedy written by Aristotle is featured in this novel whose narrator is accompanied by Adso of Melk. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Remigio, the hunchback Salvatore, and a village girl are burned by Bernard Gui.
The Name of the Rose was written by this author, who also wrote Baudolino and Foucault’s Pendulum.
Eco’s last novel was a satire on the Italian media named for this number. This number also appears in the title of a Bret Easton Ellis novel about the college student Clay’s journey into the Los Angeles underground.
The Name of the Rose [or Il nome della rosa]
 Umberto Eco
zero [accept Numero Zero or Less Than Zero]
In this work, Ruth recounts how she misheard the word “pilot” for another similar-sounding word. For 10 points each:
Name this operetta in which Frederic celebrates the end of his apprenticeship to the title group on his twenty-first birthday, not realizing that he was born on February 29th.
In The Pirates of Penzance, one character claims to have “information vegetable, animal, and mineral” and declares himself to be “the very model of a [this three-word phrase]”.
This British theatrical duo partnered with producer Richard D'Oyly Carte [“DOY-lay cart”] on The Pirates of Penzance, as well as on other comic operas, such as H.M.S. Pinafore and The Mikado.
The Pirates of Penzance; or, The Slave of Duty
modern Major-General
W. S. Gilbert &amp; Arthur Sullivan [accept Sir William Schwenck Gilbert &amp; Sir Arthur Seymour Sullivan; accept names in either order]
The author of this play claimed that it should not be considered a “clash of cultures.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which British colonial authorities prevent the village chief Elesin from committing ritual suicide. Elesin later kills himself anyway by the end of the play.
Death and the King’s Horseman was written by this playwright, the first African to win a Nobel Prize for Literature.
In Death and the King’s Horseman, the fictional “Not-I” is one of these animals that, according to Elesin, serves as a messenger for Death. The animal is named after the response people usually give when told they will soon die.
Death and the King’s Horseman
Wole Soyinka
bird
In one scene, this character refuses a request for Beethoven and instead continues to play Schumann. For 10 points each:
Name this character who, despite having “alienated Windy Corner, perhaps forever”, happily elopes with George Emerson after breaking her engagement to Cecil Vyse.
Lucy Honeychurch appears in this E.M. Forster novel, which begins with Charlotte Bartlett complaining about her accommodations in the Pension Bertolini.
This other Forster novel sees a carriage run over and kill a kidnapped baby and features the marriage of Gina Carella and Lilia Herriton. It takes its name from Alexander Pope’s Essay on Criticism.
Lucy Honeychurch [prompt on “Honeychurch”]
A Room With a View
Where Angels Fear to Tread
The narrator of this work observes Jose Ybarra-Jaegar to be out of place like “a violin in a jazz band”. For 10 points each:
Name this work in which Holly Golightly visits her friend Sally Tomato at Sing Sing prison.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s was written by this American author who detailed the adventures of Joel Harrison Knox in Other Voices, Other Rooms.
Capote depicted the murder of this Kansas family in his crime novel In Cold Blood.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s
Truman Capote
Clutter family
This metaphysical poet wrote of “virtuous men passing mildly by” in <em>A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning</em>. For 10 points each:
This author is well-known for his erotic love poems, like The Flea and To His Mistress Going to Bed.
Donne declares that this figure is “slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men” after exclaiming “canst thou kill me”. One of Donne’s poems advises this figure to “be not proud”.
This Donne poem addresses the title entity by saying “Shine here to us, and thou art everywhere; This bed thy center is, these walls, thy sphere”. This poem also calls the title entity a “saucy pedantic wretch.”
John Donne
Death
The Sun Rising
A work titled for this figure sees him fall in love with Mary Magdalene before returning to his home in Nazareth. For 10 points each:
Name this man whose “Last Temptation” is the subject of a controversial book by Nikos Kazantzakis.
This author described Simón’s efforts to find David’s mother in The Childhood of Jesus, whose sequel is The Schooldays of Jesus.
Apart from Jesus, this other Biblical figure is often referenced in literature. Archibald MacLeish wrote a modern retelling of his story, in which three Comforters attempt to explain his misfortune before he encounters Zuss and Nickels.
Jesus Christ [accept either underlined answer]
 Joseph Maxwell Coetzee
Job
This character is trapped under a mountain for peeing on the Buddha’s fingers. For 10 points each:
Name this disciple of Tripitaka who knows 72 transformations. A magic ring around his head gives him headaches when Tripitaka chants a certain mantra.
Sun Wukong appears in this book by Wu Cheng’en, in which Tripitaka and his followers travel to India to retrieve the True Scriptures.
This fruit “in a Golden Vase” names a 17th century Chinese novel focusing on Ximen Qing and the antics of his devious wife, Pan Jinlian. Along with pine and bamboo, the tree of this fruit is known as one of the “Three Friends of Winter” in Chinese culture, because it blossoms brightly in the wintertime.
Sun Wukong [accept Monkey or Monkey King]
Journey to the West [or Xīyóujì]
plum [accept mei]
Everyone loves presents, especially writers. For 10 points each, answer the following about gifts:
An ironic twist typical of this author is found at the end of his story about Della selling her hair to buy Jim a watch chain in his “The Gift of the Magi.”
In the Emma, this is the gift given to Jane Fairfax. Everyone suspected that Colonel Campbell was the gifter.
This Frost poem opens “The land was ours before we were the land’s”. He read it as a gift for JFK’s inauguration.
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
pianoforte [prompt on “instrument”]
“The Gift Outright”
Although the Last Alliance of Elves and Men accomplished many things, they never managed to thirty a bonus in Quiz Bowl. For 10 points each:
One of the accomplishments of the Last Alliance was defeating this being, who ruled over the land of Mordor. Frodo has a vision of this being’s eye in the Mirror of Galadriel.
Sauron masterminded the destruction of this Atlantis-like island, as described in the Akallabêth. The Dúnedain are the descendants of the refugees from this island.
The Dúnedain, which include Isildur and Aragorn, play a large role in this trilogy about the struggle against Sauron. This trilogy takes place on Middle Earth and was written by J. R. R. Tolkien.
Sauron [or Sauron the Deceiver; accept the Necromancer of Dol Guldur or Mairon or Gorthaur or the Nameless Enemy or Zigur or Annatar or Aulendil or Artano]
Númenor [accept Elenna-nórë or Westernesse]
The Lord of the Rings
Primo Levi’s book, <em>If This Is a Man</em>, was inspired by the time he spent at this location. For 10 points each:
Name this complex in Poland. The phrase “Arbeit Macht Frei” is branded on its gates.
A meeting with Dr. Mengele is described by this narrator of Night, who is shuttled to Auschwitz with the rest of his family. This character discusses the Jewish Kabbalah with Moshe the Beadle earlier in the novel.
This German industrialist saved hundreds of Jews during the Holocaust by employing them in his factory. His life was novelized by Thomas Keneally.
Auschwitz-Birkenau
 Eliezer Wiesel [accept either underlined part]
 Oskar Schindler
Get ready for the sickest lit bonus of all time. For 10 points each:
Name this disease referenced in the title of a Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel in which Fermina Daza breaks off an engagement to Florentino, instead choosing to marry Juvenal Urbino.
The stigma attached to this disease is discussed in Tony Kushner's play Angels in America. In the play, the character Roy Cohn dies of this disease despite his hoarding of AZT.
This author presented a fictionalized account of the Great Plague of London in A Journal of the Plague Year and often ran into trouble with politically charged works like The Shortest Way with the Dissenters.
cholera [accept Love in the Time of Cholera or El amor en los tiempos del colera]
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome [or AIDS; prompt on “Human Immunodeficiency Virus” or “HIV”]
 Daniel Defoe [accept Daniel Foe]
This man described beauty as being “momentary in the mind -/ The fitful tracing of a Portal” in “Peter Quince at the Clavier.” For 10 points each:
Name this American poet who wrote about a muscular “roller of big cigars” in “The Emperor of Ice Cream.”
This Wallace Stevens poem describes a creature perched “among twenty snowy mountains” while “Icicles filled the long window/ With barbaric glass” in winter.
A woman questions her Christian faith in this Stevens poem that begins by describing the “Complacencies of the peignoir, and late/ Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair”.
Wallace Stevens
“Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”
“Sunday Morning”
This work imagines a fictitious sister of William Shakespeare named Judith, who is unable to realize her talent due to a lack of education. For 10 points each:
Name this essay, which argues that women require financial stability and a degree of independence in order to write.
A Room of One’s Own is by this British novelist, who also wrote about the Ramsay family and their excursions to Scotland in To the Lighthouse.
Considered Woolf’s most experimental work, this other novel narrates six characters' lives entirely through soliloquies. Interestingly, the seventh character Percival never speaks.
“A Room of One’s Own”
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf
The Waves
The title character of this work ends a war with help from Kleonike and Myrrhine. For 10 points each:
Name this comedy in which the title character ends the Peloponnesian War by convincing the women of Greece to not have sex with their husbands.
This other play by the author of Lysistrata features a satire of the athenian politician Cleon as he competes with a sausage seller named Agoracritus for the approval of the Demos.
This Athenian master of comedy wrote Lysistrata and The Knights, as well as other plays such as The Birds and The Frogs.
Lysistrata
The Knights
Aristophanes
In one work, this author wrote how fallen Calcutecs become criminal Semiotecs and work for the Factory. For 10 points each:
Name this author of Hard Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World who detailed Toru Watanabe pursuing Midori in Norwegian Wood.
In a Murakami work titled after a “wild” one of these animals, an advertising agency employee goes on a quest with his supernaturally-eared girlfriend. The Boss, an unnamed elite, also seeks out that creepy, body-possessing animal.
A distinctive characteristic of the sheep is a mark shaped like this object on its side. The narrator of “When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer” looks up at these objects “in perfect silence.”
Haruki Murakami
sheep
star
Many authors exhibited peculiarities in their writing. Name a few, for ten points each:
The first manuscript of On the Road exhibits this peculiar property, which allowed Kerouac to experiment with “spontaneous prose” and forgo loading sheets into a typewriter. Edgar Allen Poe used sealing wax to accomplish this same feat.
Due to severe iritis, this author was forced to write Finnegans Wake on cardboard using large crayons while wearing a white, reflective coat. He employed stream-of-consciousness to depict Leopold Bloom’s day in Ulysses.
Pablo Neruda wrote his works using ink of this color because it represented desire or hope. In “Romance Sonambulo,” Garcia Lorca describes how much he wants this color in wind, branches, flesh, and hair.
on a continuous scroll [accept equivalents like “on a single page”; prompt on “large page” or equivalents]
James Joyce
green
In one of this author’s novels, Hazel Motes and Enoch Emory steal a mummy in an effort to create a “new Jesus.” For 10 Points each:
Name this author of a work in which Motes founds a “Church Without Christ”, as well as the novel The Violent Bear it Away and a story in which a bible salesman steals a disabled woman’s artificial leg.
O’Connor also wrote this short story which follows a family as they undergo a disastrous road trip to Florida. It ends in a tragic encounter with an escaped outlaw known as the Misfit.
The Misfit kills the family because this character reveals the Misfit’s identity. The Misfit later quips that this character “would have been a good woman, if there had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life.”
Flannery O’Connor (novel is Wise Blood, story is “Good Country People”)
“A Good Man is Hard to Find”
The Grandmother
Answer some questions about authors that have used pseudonyms in their writings. For 10 points each:
This author of Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones, who heavily criticized the epistolary novels of Samuel Richardson, went under the pseudonym of “Captain Hercules Vinegar” when writing Conservative newsletters.
This author’s mathematical work appears under his real name, Charles Dodgson. He wrote such books as Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.
This book by Mary Ann Evans, a.k.a. George Eliot, details the complex sibling relationship between Tom and Maggie Tulliver, the latter of whom failed in courting Philip Wakem.
Henry Fielding
Lewis Carroll
The Mill On the Floss
This character believes that the first two disciples of Jesus were David and Goliath. For 10 points each:
Name that naughty twelve-year-old from Missouri. He spends a week pretending to be a pirate and tricks his friends into whitewashing his aunt’s fence for him.
One night, after Tom is shunned by his crush Becky, he and his friend Huckleberry Finn go to the graveyard and witness this crime. Its perpetrator blames it on Muff Potter.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was written by this author. William Faulkner famously called him “The Father of American Literature”.
Tom Sawyer [accept either underlined part]
Injun Joe murdering Dr. Robinson [accept reasonable answers that mentions “Injun Joe” and “murder”, accept the murder of Dr. Robinson]
Mark Twain [or Samuel Clemens]
Answer some questions about literary portrayals of Beethoven’s music. For 10 points each:
Pozdnyshev kills his wife after catching her playing Beethoven’s Kreutzer Sonata with her lover in a novella by this Russian author of War and Peace.
This novel describes the scherzo of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony with the image of dancing goblins. In this novel, Margaret is bequeathed the title estate by Henry Wilcox after his son Charles accidentally kills Leonard Bast.
After murdering an elderly woman, this character is forced to listen to Beethoven’s Ninth repeatedly as part of the torturous Ludovico Technique in Anthony Burgess’ novel A Clockwork Orange.
Leo Tolstoy
Howards End
Alex
This city is attacked in the <em>Epigoni</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this city, the subject of the Alcmeonis and a poem by Statius.
This blind seer advises Oedipus and later Creon in Sophocles’s plays set in Thebes. He switched genders twice, both times upon encounters with copulating snakes.
In Book II of Statius’ Thebaid, the ghost of this king appears to his grandson Eteocles in a dream in the form of Tiresias. He was the father of Oedipus.
Thebes [or Thebai; accept Theban Cycle; accept Thebaid or Thebais]
Tiresias [or Teiresias]
Laius [or Laios]
A couple in this play seem to forget they are married but eventually figure it out after asking each other where they live. For 10 points each:
Name this Absurdist work that features nonsensical banter between the Smiths, the Martins, and the fire chief during an unspecified visit.
This author of The Bald Soprano frequently wrote about Berenger in works like The Killer and Exit the King. An old couple prepare for invisible guests in his The Chairs.
Although he was born in Romania, Ionesco spent most of his childhood in this country. Jean Anouilh was a dramatist from this country who attacked its Vichy government in an adaptation of Antigone.
The Bald Soprano [accept The Bald Prima Donna;accept La Cantatrice Chauve]
Eugene Ionesco
France
Rush Rhees translated Wittgenstein’s <em>Remarks on</em> [this book], wherein he first called metaphysics “a kind of magic.” For 10 points each:
Name this pioneering work of mythography by James Frazier that states that society progresses from magical to religious and finally scientific stages of thought.
The Golden Bough is named for an object this priestess tells Aeneas to find on a tree for entry into the underworld. The Waste Land’s epigraph comes from a scene in the Satyricon in which this Cumaean says she wants to die.
T.S. Eliot cites The Golden Bough and Jessie Weston’s From Ritual to Romance as his major sources for The Waste Land in its notes. The latter book focuses on the legend of this object from which Jesus drank at the Last Supper.
The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion
(the) Cumaean Sibyl [or Deiphobe, Amaltheia, Demophile, Herophile, or Taraxandra; do not accept the “Erythraean Sibyl” or “Sibyl of Dodona”]
(the) Holy Grail [or the Grail Legend]
This author’s name means “plantain” when written in kanji. For 10 points each:
Name this Japanese poet who wrote such volumes as “Narrow Road to the Deep North” and “Monkey’s Raincoat.”
Basho was a master of this form composed of three lines of five, seven, then five syllables. It is mixed with prose in the Haibun form in which he wrote his magnum opus, The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Basho notably did not adhere to the traditional haiku formula, which used these words associated with specific seasons.
Matsuo Basho
haiku
kigo [prompt on “season words”]
This figure is said to be associated with the <em>fukú americanus</em> curse, which can be warded off by saying “zafa.” For 10 points each:
Name this figure who is compared to Sauron and Arawn in one novel. This man was the dictator of the Dominican Republic from 1930 to 1961.
Trujillo is a character in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, a novel by this author who also wrote the short story collections Drown and This Is How You Lose Her.
The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao takes place in this US state. William Carlos Williams wrote Paterson, a modernist epic about a city in this state.
Rafael (Leónidas) Trujillo (Molina) [accept El Jefe or The Chief]
Junot Díaz
New Jersey
In this work, a “self-taught” man who attempts to alphabetically read all the books in the library is revealed to be a pedophile and ejected from the library. For ten points:
Name this novel set in Bouville in which that man, Ogier P., appears. The protagonist of this novel has revelation staring at the roots of a chestnut tree.
This French existentialist author of Nausea wrote about a mysterious room in No Exit.
This other Sartre play, based on Aeschylus’ Oresteia, features an existentialist Orestes who rejects the dominion of Zeus and refuses to acknowledge his matricidal guilt.
Nausea [accept La Nausée]
Jean-Paul Sartre
The Flies [accept Les Mouches]
This novel is presented as the literary criticism of a poem by John Shade. For ten points each:
Name this novel in which Charles Kinbote reveals that he believes himself to be the exiled Zemblan king Charles the Beloved.
Pale Fire is by this Russian novelist, who also wrote the dystopian novel Bend Sinister and the memoir Speak, Memory.
Nabokov’s most famous work is this novel in which Humbert Humbert develops an unhealthy sexual attraction to the “nymphet” Dolores Haze.
Pale Fire
Vladimir Nabokov
Lolita
In this work the author’s journey lasts from the night before Good Friday to the Wednesday before Easter. For ten points each:
Name this work which features a character being guided through the three spheres of the underworld by Beatrice and Virgil.
This man translated the Divine Comedy into English, but is more commonly known for works such as “The Children’s Hour,” “The Wreck of the Hesperus,” and Evangeline.
This Longfellow poem’s title character has “large and sinewy hands” and works “week in, week out from morn ‘til night.”
the Divine Comedy (or Divina Commedia; prompt on “Inferno”)
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
The Village Blacksmith
In this short story, the Man of the Book knows all the knowledge of the title structure. For ten points each:
Name this short story about a collection that contains all possible texts in the universe, collected into a series of infinite hexagonal rooms.
This author wrote “The Library of Babel.”
This place in the Library of Babel is said to contain illustrated, magical books that can not be found anywhere else in the library.
“The Library of Babel” (or “La biblioteca de Babel”)
Jorge Luis Borges
the Crimson Hexagon
This Shakespearean leading lady ends her life with the phrase “Happy dagger, this is thy sheath.” For ten points each:
Name this title character of a play that begins “Two houses, both alike in dignity.”
Another Shakespearean leading lady hypocritically says this three-word phrase while sleepwalking and rubbing her hands.
This is the male alter-ego of another leading lady who is the target of Orlando’s affections as he puts poems on trees in the forest of Arden.
Juliet Capulet
“Out, damned spot!”
Ganymede (do not accept or prompt on Rosalind)
Name some literary movements from the past three centuries. For ten points each:
The prominence of this late 1700s German movement was ended when Goethe and Schiller transitioned to Weimar Classicism. Its name is usually translated as “Storm and Stress.”
Horace Walpole’s The Castle of Otranto is considered to be the first novel of this movement, whose other novels like Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein demonstrate its elements of gloom and fear. Its name comes from a style of architecture.
This 1950s American movement was closely intertwined with the counterculture of the time. Its prominent members include Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac.
Sturm und Drang
Gothic fiction
Beat Generation
This man maintained a public dispute with Jun'ichirō Tanizaki. For ten points each:
Name this author of “Hana” and “Rashōmon” who names the highest Japanese award for literature.
This Akutagawa work follows a murder from the perspectives of a woodcutter, a buddhist priest, a homen, a criminal, a girl, and the ghost of the dead man, Takehiro.
These two items are found next to Takehiro by the woodcutter; name either. One of these items is not mentioned by any other character, and one is used to bind Takehiro.
Akutagawa Ryūnosuke
In a Grove (or Yabu no Naka)
a comb and a rope
For ten points each, name some notable authors and poets who achieved African American literary firsts.
This author became the first African American to win the Nobel Prize in Literature for novels such as Beloved and Song of Solomon.
This poet was the first African American woman to have her work, specifically Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral, published.
This man wrote one of the first widely disseminated slave narratives, an autobiography billed as an “Interesting Narrative” of this man’s life.
Toni Morrison
Phillis Wheatley
Olaudah Equiano
After the characters of this play leave their Estate for the last time, they leave the servant Firs to die. For ten points each:
Name this play by Chekhov about the purchase of Madame Ranevsky’s estate and the subsequent cutting down of the title area.
This other Chekhov work ends with the suicide of Constantine Treplev after Nina reveals her love for Trigorin. This play takes its name from a certain beachside pest.
In Chekhov's “The Bet,” this character volunteers to live in solitary confinement for 15 years as part of the title bet.
The Cherry Orchard (or Vishnevyi sad)
The Seagull (or Chayka)
the Lawyer
Answer the following questions about literary works whose titles share a common maritime theme. For ten points each:
This poem written by William Butler Yeats begins “That is no country for old men.”
This Stephen Crane short story details the time spent in the title structure by the Correspondent, the Cook, the Captain, and the Oiler. Crane was inspired to write this work after surviving the sinking of the SS Commodore.
This Arthur Rimbaud poem consisting of 25 alexandrine quatrains begins, “As I was floating down unconcerned rivers…”
“Sailing to Byzantium”
“The Open Boat”
“The Drunken Boat”
This work remarks that a prince with <em>virtù</em> must be “cunning like a fox and powerful like a lion.” For ten points each:
Name this political treatise by Niccolo Machiavelli which offered guidance for Renaissance monarchs, including that it is better to be loved than feared.
The Prince is often compared with this Sanskrit treatise on statecraft traditionally credited to Chanakya. This text’s title roughly translates to “the science of politics.”
Machiavelli’s ruthless advice in The Prince is contrasted with his support for democracy in his discourses on the works of this man. This ancient historian wrote Ab Urbe Condita as a massive history of Rome.
The Prince (or Il Principe)
Arthashastra
Livy
This type of fruit is distinguished from closely related fruits by its waxy coating, smooth seed, and solitary side buds. For ten points each:
Name this variety of stone fruit which is generally a dark purple color and when dried is called a prune.
This poet wrote that he had “eaten the plums that were in the icebox” in his poem “This Is Just to Say.”
This character in a popular nursery rhyme “sat in a corner eating a christmas pie; he stuck in his thumb, and pulled out a plum, and said ‘what a good boy am I!’”
plum
William Carlos Williams
Little Jack Horner
In this novel, a string of diamonds has two pieces stolen by Milady de Winter, but the protagonist manages to replace them before anything amiss is noted. For ten points each:
Name this novel about D’artagnan of Gascony as he tries to become a member of the organization to which the title people belong.
The Three Musketeers was written by this Frenchman, who also wrote The Vicomte de Bragelonne and The Count of Monte Cristo.
One of the three musketeers, Athos, notices this symbol on Milady de Winter’s shoulder, and realizes that she is his estranged wife.
The Three Musketeers
Alexandre Dumas
a fleur-de-lys
In this novel, Miriam Chadwick rapes one of the title characters, and the other title character takes care of the baby. For ten points each:
Name this novel by Peter Carey about an obsessive gambler and a compulsive gambler who make a bet on a ship.
Oscar and Lucinda is set in this country, where the bet is carried out from Sydney to Bellingen up the New South Wales coast.
The bet made by Oscar and Lucinda is that Oscar isn’t able to transport one of these things 400 miles.
Oscar and Lucinda
Australia
a glass cathedral [prompt on “cathedral”]
Name some things about the George Bernard Shaw play <em>Pygmalion</em>. For ten points each:
This character learns elocution from Professor Henry Higgins, eventually passing off as a high society lady.
This is where Eliza worked as a Cockney flower girl, and where she met the professor.
Pygmalion was turned into this musical, with music by Frederick Loewe and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner.
Eliza Doolittle (accept either)
Covent Garden
My Fair Lady
This philosophical text takes place at Agathon's house and features a set of speeches given at a banquet. For ten points each:
Name this philosophical work by Plato in which characters talk about love.
In Symposium, Eryximachus delivers a speech about this topic. The Hippocratic Oath concerns the appropriate performance of this discipline.
Near the end of Symposium, this man arrives and delivers a drunken rant. This general switched sides to help Sparta win the Peloponnesian War.
the Symposium
medicine
Alcibiades
Many poems have been written about seizing the day and living while you can. For ten points each:
This Lake poet wrote To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time, which includes the famous carpe diem line “gather ye rosebuds while ye may.”
Andrew Marvell wrote this love poem that begins “Had we but world enough and time” but continues on to say that since time is short, the poet’s lover should be more willing to begin a relationship soon.
The phrase carpe diem originates from Book 1 of Odes, written by this Roman poet who also wrote Ars Poetica.
Robert Herrick
“To His Coy Mistress”
Horace
Theodore Geisel, also known as Doctor Seuss, is arguably the greatest children’s writer of all time. Let’s see how much you know about his works. For ten points each:
This is the main character in Seuss’ Green Eggs and Ham. He attempts to get the narrator to eat the title foods.
These bird-like creatures have either stars or no stars on their bellies and are scammed by a monkey man because of the superiority of one group over the other.
In another Seuss book, the orientation of this condiment begins a battle between the Yooks and the Zooks.
Sam-I-Am
the Sneetches
butter
One work by this poet states, “You shall love beauty,” and "You shall bring forth your work...out of the blood of your heart." For ten points each:
Name this poet of Decalogue of the Artist, Tala, and Desolación.
Mistral wrote a collection of Sonnets of this concept after her love affair with Romelio Ureta ended. A personification of this concept narrates The Book Thief by Markus Zusak.
Mistral was a poet from this country. Pablo Neruda and Isabel Allende also hailed from this country.
Gabriela Mistral
death
Chile
In this novel, two bags of gold are stolen from the title character, but found along with the thief’s skeleton 16 years after the theft. For ten points each:
Name this novel about a weaver of Raveloe who adopts a baby girl and names her Hephzibah, or Eppie for short.
This man, the eldest son of the local squire, turns out to be the actual father of Eppie.
The author of Silas Marner, Mary Ann Evans, published the work under one of these fake names. She called herself George Eliot.
Silas Marner
Godfrey Cass (accept either underlined name)
pseudonym
Answer the following questions about colorfully titled novels. For ten points each:
This epistolary novel by Alice Walker about Celie’s life in rural Georgia.
The title dog of this Jack London novel abused by his first owner but is rescued by a California mining engineer.
This character is the protagonist of Cao Xueqin’s Dream of the Red Chamber. This man was born with a piece of the wall of heaven in his mouth, which took the form of jade.
The Color Purple
White Fang
Jia Baoyu (accept either)
In this novel, one character partially learns of speech and humanity by reading <em>The Sorrows of Young Werther</em> and <em>Plutarch’s Lives</em>. For ten points each:
Name this Mary Shelley novel about a doctor who reanimates a monster. This novel is subtitled “The Modern Prometheus.”
Frankenstein’s monster murders this person, Frankenstein’s fiancée, on their wedding night because Frankenstein refused to make the monster a mate.
This word can describe the form of Frankenstein because much of the novel is told in a series of letters from Robert Walton.
Frankenstein
Elizabeth Lavenza (accept either)
epistolary
In one scene in this novel, the protagonist believes his brains are melting when he puts on a helmet filled with cheese curds. For ten points each:
Name this novel by Miguel de Cervantes about the adventures of a delusional “knight,” his horse Rocinante, and his squire Sancho Panza.
Don Quixote accidentally tries to fight these things during one of his adventures, which he mistakenly believes to be giants.
Many of Don Quixote’s delusions come from stories of this knight “of Gaul.”
Don Quixote
windmills
Amadis of Gaul
In this novel, Amir and his father leave their country to Peshawar, then the United States, where Amir’s father works as a gas station manager. For ten points each:
Name this Khaled Hosseini novel titled after a competition which involves slicing the strings of flying toys.
The Kite Runner takes place in this capital city of Afghanistan where Amir spends his childhood.
Amir’s best friend, Hassan, is part of this ethnic group, which is persecuted relentlessly when the Taliban comes to power.
The Kite Runner
Kabul
Hazara
In this novel, the death of the horse, Prince, prompts the protagonist to try to claim kin to people she is not actually related to. For ten points each:
Name this novel whose title character of illustrious heritage falls in love with Angel Clare.
This author of Far From the Madding Crowd wrote Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
This is the name that Tess gives to her son, the child of her rape by Alec.
Tess of the D'Urbervilles
Thomas Hardy
Sorrow
This poem states that “Twenty centuries of stony sleep / Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that referencing a center that “cannot hold” and is titled for the return of Christ.
“The Second Coming” was written by this Irish poet who also wrote “"The Wild Swans at Coole" and “Easter, 1916.”
In “The Second Coming,” the speaker states that “Hardly are those words out / When a vast image out of” this place troubles his sight. Yeats believed that the inspiration for poets came from this place.
“The Second Coming”
William Butler Yeats
Spiritus Mundi (accept world spirit)
One work by this poet includes the lines, “May we long share our odd, inanimate feast, / And meet at last on the Cloudy River of the sky.” For ten points each:
Name this Tang Dynasty poet who wrote “Drinking Alone by Moonlight.”
This Li Bai poem was famously translated by Ezra Pound. It details the youth of the title figure and the early years of her marriage.
Li Bai apocryphally died in this way after getting very drunk.
Li Bai
“The River Merchant's Wife”
drowning (accept trying to embrace the reflection of the moon in the water and equivalents)
The protagonist of this work recounts her hometown’s celebration of Joe Louis’ boxing victory. For ten points each:
Name this autobiographical work that traces the main character as she struggles with and flees racial discrimination in Stamps, Arkansas.
Name the author of I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, an African American poet and civil rights activist.
Angelou recited this work at the inauguration of President Bill Clinton, which begins with “A Rock, A River, A Tree.”
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
Maya Angelou
“On the Pulse of Morning”
The death of the main character in this novel is marked by the chapter “Vanished into the clouds,” consisting of no text. For ten points each:
Name this extensive work about the life of the son of Emperor Kiritsubo as he rises and falls through the ranks of court and womanizes incessantly.
This lady-in-waiting wrote The Tale of Genji.
This is the name of Genji’s first love. He later trains one of her relatives, a girl named Murasaki, to be exactly like her.
The Tale of Genji
Lady Murasaki Shikibu
Lady Fujitsubo
This character gives birth to a boy named Wade Hampton and a girl named Ella Lorena and marries three times during the course of the novel she appears in. For ten points each:
Name this southern belle who marries a wealthy blockade runner and manages Tara Plantation.
This is the novel that Scarlett appears in, a Margaret Mitchell novel set during and after the American Civil War.
In Gone with the Wind, Melanie explains that Scarlett’s husbands are all a part of this group, whose activities lead to the death of Frank Kennedy.
Scarlett O’Hara (accept either)
Gone with the Wind
the Ku Klux Klan (accept KKK)
For ten points each, name these novels set during epidemics.
This Thomas Mann novella follows the ascetic Gustav von Aschenbach’s infatuation with Tadzio in a cholera-ridden Italian city.
This novel by Albert Camus takes place in the French-Algerian city of Oran and features characters like Cottard and Dr. Castel.
Daniel Defoe recounted a disease stricken London in this novel, which he published under a pseudonym to hide his age when the outbreak actually occurred.
Death in Venice
The Plague
A Journal of the Plague Year
Answer the following questions about George Bernard Shaw’s play <em>Pygmalion</em>. For ten points each:
This character in Pygmalion learns elocution from Professor Henry Higgins, eventually passing off as a high society lady.
This location is where Eliza works as a Cockney flower girl and meets the professor.
Pygmalion was adapted into this long-running Lerner and Loewe musical. Rex Harrison and Julie Andrews starred in this show’s original run.
Eliza Doolittle (accept either)
Covent Garden
My Fair Lady
In this novel, the protagonist makes a living by embroidering clothing although she is cast out of society. For ten points each:
Name this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel about Hester Prynne and her daughter Pearl, titled after a mark on Hester’s clothing.
In this short story by Hawthorne, a poisonous girl dies after taking an antidote given to her by her lover. This story is named for the child of a reclusive Italian scientist
This other short story by Hawthorne opens with a sexton ringing a bell and sees Mr. Hopper wear the title garment.
The Scarlet Letter
“Rappaccini's Daughter”
“The Minister’s Black Veil”
Ayatollah Khomeini placed a bounty on this man’s head after the publication of his most famous work. For ten points each:
Name this Indian British author who wrote works like Shame, Grimus, and Midnight’s Children.
In this highly controversial Rushdie novel, Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha fall from a plane crash and turn into the archangel Gabriel and the devil, respectively.
In the section of The Satanic Verses called “Ayesha’s Dream,” all of the followers of Ayesha die by this method.
Salman Rushdie
The Satanic Verses
drowning (accept walking into the sea and equivalents)
Outlaws make great literary characters. For ten points each:
This outlaw lives in Sherwood Forest and steals from the rich and gives to the poor. This highly skilled archer was satirized by the Mel Brooks film Men in Tights.
This author of Waverly and The Heart of Midlothian wrote about a dashing Scottish outlaw named Rob Roy.
This work by Peter Carey follows an Australian outlaw as he robs banks and takes over towns.
Robin Hood
Sir Walter Scott
True History of the Kelly Gang
In this novel, the title character gains entry into a section of the Army of the North under General Arroyo by shooting a hole through a silver peso. For ten points each:
Name this novel about Ambrose Bierce’s death during the Mexican Revolution.
This author wrote The Old Gringo and The Death of Artemio Cruz.
Fuentes chose to include Ambrose Bierce in his novel because of his admiration for an anthology by Bierce named for these people “and civilians”. The Things They Carried is a novel about these people in Vietnam.
The Old Gringo
Carlos Fuentes
soldiers
After the death of the protagonist of this novel, one of his former lovers kisses the lips of his severed head, as her ancestor, Queen Margot, did. For ten points each:
Name this novel titled for the tension between the clerical and secular interests of Julien Sorel.
This author wrote The Red and the Black as well as The Charterhouse of Parma.
This unfinished Stendhal novel about Mina Wanghen follows a similar naming format to The Red and the Black.
The Red and the Black (accept Le Rouge et Le Noir)
Stendhal (accept Marie-Henri Beyle)
The Pink and the Green
In this play, a character decides to return to her 12th birthday, despite the urging of her companions not to do so. For ten points each:
Name this play set in Grover’s Corners that is narrated by the Stage Manager.
This author of The Matchmaker, The Skin of Our Teeth, and The Bridge of San Luis Rey wrote Our Town.
This character in Our Town is the town drunk and choir director. He eventually commits suicide.
Our Town
Thornton Wilder
Simon Stimson (accept either)
In this novel, a character joins a group of performing dwarves who entertain German troops on the front lines of World War Two. For ten points each:
Name this novel about Oskar Matzerath, a boy who decides to stop growing at the age of three and has a scream that can shatter glass.
This author wrote The Tin Drum in addition to its sequels, Cat and Mouse and The Dog Years.
This other novel by Grass is loosely based on the fable The Fisherman and His Wife. Grass himself said that “women’s libbers” were offended by this novel.
The Tin Drum
Gunter Grass
The Flounder
In this work, the author uses an example of a theoretical sister of Shakespeare who was unable to show her genius. For ten points each:
Name this feminist essay by Virginia Woolf, originally given as a series of lectures, which discusses how gender roles have robbed the world of literature.
In this feminist Woolf novel, the title character is born an Elizabethan nobleman but winds up living for hundreds of years. Many of this novel’s central characters, including the titular figure, are gender non-conforming.
This other work by Virginia Woolf follows a woman named Clarissa as she plans a party. This novel examines the role of wealth in shaping feminist characteristics.
“A Room of One’s Own”
Orlando: A Biography
Mrs. Dalloway
This novel features Pangloss, a syphilitic teacher and optimist who likes to proclaim that “all is for the best in the best of all possible worlds.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1759 satirical work by Voltaire.
Candide is in love with this daughter of Baron Thunder-ten-Tronckh. She is later part of a sharing agreement between the Grand Inquisitor and Don Issachar.
This man is Candide’s valet while he is in the Americas and accompanies him to the kingdom of El Dorado.
Candide: or Optimism
Cunegonde
Cacambo
Music and literature often go hand in hand. For ten points each, name these literary titles that contain musically inclined characters.
In this Jane Austen novel, Georgiana Darcy is considered by Caroline Bingley to be an “accomplished woman” because of her prowess as a singer and with the piano and harp.
In this novel, Mademoiselle Reisz teaches the protagonist how to play the piano. The protagonist admires Mademoiselle Reisz in the novel because she will not conform to the New Orleans Creole society.
This Tolstoy novella relates the story of a man who killed his wife after he learned of her affair with a violinist.
Pride and Prejudice
The Awakening
The Kreutzer Sonata
One character in this story is nicknamed “Queenie” by its narrator because of her attractiveness. For 10 points each:
Name this John Updike short story told from the perspective of the grocery store clerk Sammy who quits his job to impress some girls.
In this poem, Allen Ginsberg writes about seeing Garcia Lorca “down by the watermelons” at the title place.
A group of kids rebel against a Korean supermarket owner in The Silent Cry by Kenzaburo Oe, an author from this East Asian country and birthplace of 2017 Nobel Prize winner Kazuo Ishiguro.
A&amp;P
“A Supermarket in California”
Japan
Many literary characters and their authors have taken an interest in painting. For ten points each:
This character’s paintings of a shipwreck and a cormorant, the evening star, and a head seem to foreshadow her story at Thornfield Hall.
This poet was a well known artist who painted works like The Ancient of Days and illustrations for his poems, including The Lamb and The Tyger.
This novel by Margaret Atwood follows a modern painter named Elaine Risley reflecting on her childhood and teenage years.
Jane Eyre (accept either underlined name)
William Blake
Cat’s Eye
Literature and herpetology, or the study of amphibians, are not mutually exclusive! For ten points each:
This Aesop fable features a race between two animals culminating in a moral that “slow and steady” is better than fast and lazy.
This play about Dionysus and his slave Xanthius attempting to bring Euripides from the dead includes the title amphibians chanting “Brekekekèx-koàx-koáx.”
This Tennessee William plays examines Reverend T. Lawrence Shannon after he is accused of statutory rape.
“The Tortoise and the Hare”
The Frogs
The Night of the Iguana
In this play, two strangers, Goldberg and McCann, arrive in the residence of the protagonist and stage the title event. For ten points each:
Name this play set in a rundown boarding house occupied by a pianist named Stanley Weber.
This playwright wrote The Birthday Party and other “comedies of menace.” This man also wrote The Dumb Waiter.
In the play The Dumb Waiter, Gus and Ben argue about whether this object should be “turned on” or “put on.”
The Birthday Party
Harold Pinter
the Kettle
This poem begins with the lines “A willow of crystal a poplar of water / a pillar of fountain by the wind drawn over.” For ten points each:
Name this surrealist poem whose 584 lines mimic the Aztec Calendar.
This Mexican author wrote “Sunstone,” as well as an extended essay titled The Labyrinth of Solitude.
Paz also wrote about a journey to Galta, India, home of a shrine to this Monkey Grammarian.
“Sunstone”
Octavio Paz
Hanuman
In this novel, the words “A return after long wanderings” are written on one character’s tombstone, and “He wanted the kingdom of God on earth” are written on another. For ten points each:
Name this novel about the love of Tomas and Tereza amidst the Prague Spring.
Milan Kundera, the author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, experienced the Prague Spring first hand as a citizen of this country. This communist nation stripped Kundera of his citizenship in 1979.
This is the German word Kundera uses to describe what Tomas fights against and what Sabina tries to escape. In English, this loanword translates as “tackiness” or “cheesiness.”
The Unbearable Lightness of Being
Czechoslovakia (prompt on “the Czech Republic”)
kitsch
In this novel, the protagonist attempts to finish his missions, the number of which is always being raised by Colonel Cathcart. For ten points each:
Name this novel that focuses on the military exploits of Captain John Yossarian during World War Two.
This author of Catch-22 began writing the novel after he imagined the line, “It was love at first sight. The first time he saw the chaplain, Yossarian fell madly in love with him.”
This is the name of the syndicate run by Milo Minderbinder that sells chocolate covered cotton and eggs in Catch-22.
Catch-22
Joseph Heller
M&amp;M Enterprises
The actual story of this work begins with the Buddha instructing Guanyin to find someone sacred enough to bring Buddhist sutras to the east. For ten points each:
Name this Chinese novel about the monk Xuanzang and his band of disciples as he attempts to spread sacred Buddhist texts to lands beyond India.
Xuanzang’s disciples are all atoning for some past sin because Guanyin helped them each in some way. This disciple of Xuanzang is atoning for flirting with the moon goddess Chang’e.
Another disciple of Xuanzang, Sun Wukong, was born from this thing before becoming the magical king of the monkeys.
Journey to the West (accept Xi You Ji)
Pigsy (accept Zhu Bajie or Zhu Wuneng)
a stone egg
This character meets Uzzi-Tuzii, professor of dead languages. For ten points each:
Name this character who meets Ludmilla in a bookstore after realizing a book has been printed incorrectly. The second person point of view is defined by its use of this subject.
You and Ludmilla are characters in If on a winter’s night a traveler…, a novel by this Italian author who also wrote about Kublai Khan in Invisible Cities.
Calvino also wrote this short story collection, which, like t zero, is mostly narrated by a being named Qfwfq. It includes a story in which the Earth and Moon used to be closer together.
you (accept me, or the Reader, accept equivalents, do not accept “the Other Reader”)
Italo Calvino
Cosmicomics
This speaker of this poem states that the world “Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, / Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain.” For ten points each:
Name this poem in which the speaker instructs the reader to “Listen!” to hear the grating roar of pebbles along the namesake English shoreline.
This English poet penned Dover Beach. He also wrote “The Scholar Gipsy” and “Thyrsis.”
Matthew Arnold wrote “How changed is here each spot man makes or fills!” in “Thyrsis” to commemorate this friend of his, who was also an English poet.
“Dover Beach”
Matthew Arnold
Arthur Hugh Clough
One of this man’s plays details Karen sleeping with Hollywood executive Bobby Gould to get him to produce a movie. For ten points each:
Name this playwright of Speed-the-Plow who wrote about Ricky Roma in Glengarry Glen Ross.
The main characters of Glengarry Glen Ross have this profession, which also features in the title of an Arthur Miller play about Willy Loman.
Glengarry Glen Ross is also famous for its characters’ liberal use of this action. The character Dave Moss performs this action 67 times alone.
David Mamet
salesman
swearing
This nonfiction work set in Holcomb, Kansas is considered the first in the true crime genre. For ten points each:
Name this novel about Perry Smith and Dick Hickock’s murders of the Clutter family.
This author wrote In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany’s.
Capote calls the protagonist of Breakfast at Tiffany’s an American example of a member of this profession.
In Cold Blood
Truman Capote
geisha
For ten points each, name these Caribbean authors.
This Trinidadian author wrote a novel about a man with an inauspicious birth in A House for Mr. Biswas.
This Negritude author from Martinique wrote a work that sympathetically portrays Caliban as a black slave and casts Ariel as a Mulatto in Une Tempête.
This Antiguan woman took ten pen name “Jamaica” when she published Lucy and Annie John.
V. S. Naipaul
Aime Cesaire
Jamaica Kincaid (accept Elaine Potter Richardson)
Moving between different levels of the afterlife and realm of the gods is a theme in multiple works of literature. For ten points each:
This character leaves heaven for a lower place because he is bored in George Bernard Shaw's play Man and Superman. This fictional libertine first appeared in a play by Tirso de Molina.
This sphere that uses celestial bodies to represent different types of virtue represents heaven in Dante’s Divine Comedy. It is contrasted with the Inferno and Purgatorio.
In this work by John Milton, Lucifer is cast from heaven after staging a war with god and the angels.
Don Juan
Paradiso (prompt on “Paradise”)
Paradise Lost
In this novel, a character is asked what makes someone a gentleman, to which he replies dignity. For ten points each:
Name this novel about Stevens, a British butler who comes to work under Mr. Farraday.
This British author of Japanese extraction wrote The Remains of the Day. In 2017, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature.
This most recent Ishiguro novel was published in 2015 and focuses on the life of Axl and Beatrice, a couple living in Arthurian times.
The Remains of the Day
Kazuo Ishiguro
The Buried Giant
The poet of this collection began writing them while a guest of Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis. For ten points each:
Name this collection of poetry that the author was inspired to write after hearing, “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?”
This German poet of The Duino Elegies wrote other works like Sonnets to Orpheus and “The Archaic Torso of Apollo.”
Rilke wrote a collection of letters to this person, an alter-ego for Franz Xaver Kappus, in which he said that Kappus should feel, love, and seek truth.
The Duino Elegies
Rainer Maria Rilke
A Young Poet
One character in this novel realizes that she is now subservient to a man who had once been her servant. For ten points each:
Name this novel about a fictional South African civil war in which the Smales family flees Johannesburg with their servant.
This South African wrote July’s People as a prediction of how Apartheid would end.
Gordimer also wrote this novel about Rosa, who goes through life fighting against Apartheid despite her efforts being dismissed and almost going into exile.
July’s People
Nadine Gordimer
Burger’s Daughter
Much of the action in this novel takes place in the Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that centers on a film created by James Incandenza that is so entertaining it kills all its viewers.
This sport features heavily in Infinite Jest. The Enfield Academy teaches this sport and the game of Eschaton incorporates elements of this sport.
Infinite Jest was written by this author who committed suicide in 2008. This man also wrote the philosophical essay This is Water.
Infinite Jest
tennis
David Foster Wallace
This author drew on her anthropological training under Franz Boas in books like <em>Mules and Men</em>. For 10 points each.
Name this author of the short stories “Sweat” and “Turpentine Love.” She’s more famous for writing about Janie Crawford in the novel Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston grew up in this town and featured it in many of her stories. In Their Eyes Were Watching God, Janie Crawford’s second husband, Jody Starks, becomes the mayor of this Florida town.
Vergible Woods is the real name of this third and final husband of Janie Crawford. Janie shoots this man after he’s bitten by a rabid dog.
Zora Neale Hurston
Eatonville
Tea Cake &lt;MK&gt;
The plot of this story is set in motion by an invitation from the Minister of Public Instruction. For 10 points each:
Name this short story by Guy de Maupassant, in which Mathilde Loisel and her husband pawn all of their belongings to replace the title object.
Like many other stories by Maupassant, “The Necklace” includes a twist at this point in the plot. This part of the story follows the dénouement; a description is fine.
Maupassant also wrote novels, including this book about the two sons of Gérôme Roland. This novel’s first title character finds out that his brother is illegitimate after finding Léon Maréchal’s love letters to his mother.
“The Necklace” [or “La parure”; accept “The Diamond Necklace”]
ending [accept reasonable equivalents like “close”]
Pierre et Jean [or Pierre and Jean] &lt;JR&gt;
Before a 2016 exposé, a fan theory held that this woman was actually translator Ann Goldstein. For 10 points each:
Name this mysterious Italian novelist, whose four-part series of Neapolitan Novels was finished in 2014.
Ann Goldstein also translated this author’s 2016 book, In Other Words, from its original Italian. That might be surprising, since this American author wrote The Namesake and Interpreter of Maladies in her native English.
Jhumpa Lahiri’s work focuses on Americans like Mr. and Mrs. Das who have roots in this South Asian country. Rabindranath Tagore was from what is now this modern country.
Elena Ferrante [accept Anita Raja]
Jhumpa Lahiri [Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]
Republic of India [or Bharat Ganarajya] &lt;JR&gt;
This sentence is followed by a description of a “damp, drizzly November” of the soul. For 10 points each:
Name this sentence that begins the chapter “Loomings.” After it, the narrator introduces his story, which took place “Some time ago”—but “never mind how long [ago] precisely”—when he had “little or no money.”
“Call me Ishmael” is the first sentence of this novel by Herman Melville, in which Captain Ahab hunts the title white whale.
In Moby-Dick, two whales are killed by Stubb and Flask, who have this job. Starbuck also has this job title.
“Call me Ishmael.”
Moby-Dick: or, the Whale
mates [prompt on officers] (They’re second, third, and chief mate, respectively.) &lt;JR&gt;
One of these books takes its title from Paul Laurence Dunbar’s poem “Sympathy.” For 10 points each:
Name this genre James McBride’s The Color of Water. Henry Adams is most famous for one of these books, along with his book Mont Saint Michel and Chartres.
This man wrote a Narrative of his life as a slave, and the memoir My Bondage and My Freedom. This Maryland native advocated abolition in his newspaper The North Star.
This other man temporarily saved himself from bankruptcy by publishing the memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant. This man’s three-volume Autobiography was published starting in 2010, 100 years after his death.
autobiography [or memoirs; accept The Education of Henry Adams]
Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens] &lt;JR&gt;
During a dream in the novel’s epilogue, the moon “bursts” after the dreamer is assured that he imagined <em>this</em> character’s execution. For 10 points each:
Name this character who’s followed around by the overzealous former tax collector Levi Matvei. A fictional book about this man’s life is written in a Moscow psychiatric ward.
The story of Yeshua Ha-Nozri is included in Mikhail Bulgakov’s The Master and Margarita, which is based on the legend of this man. This character is tempted by Mephistopheles, and, in one version, seduces the girl Gretchen.
Mephistopheles is either an agent of, or a stand-in for this this figure. Daniel Webster sells his soul to this figure in a Stephen Vincent Benét story.
Yeshua Ha-Nozri [prompt on Jesus or Christ]
Dr. Faust
the Devil [accept Satan; accept Lucifer] &lt;JR&gt;
This book was followed by other specimens of “impassioned prose,” like <em>Suspiria de Profundis</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this autobiographical book from 1821, which describes the “pains” and “pleasures” of the title substance.
Thomas De Quincey’s Confessions of an English Opium-Eater is a classic text of this literary movement of the early 19th century, which emphasized nature, intense emotions, and the irrational, in reaction to the Enlightenment.
De Quincey also wrote a series of essays on this activity “considered as one of the fine arts.” In an 1823 novel, Justine Moritz is associated with this activity because of William’s locket.
Confessions of an English Opium-Eater [accept answers like Thomas De Quincey’s Confessions, but prompt on just Confessions]
Romanticism
murder [accept reasonable equivalents like killing or more specific methods like strangling; prompt on crime; prompt on death] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about classic Italian cinema:
Italian film after World War II was dominated by this movement, which focused on the living conditions of the poor and used amateur actors. This movement was exemplified by the films Rome, Open City and Bicycle Thieves.
This Italian director began to move away from neorealism with his 1954 film La Strada. This man used dream-like imagery and plots throughout films like La Dolce Vita and 8½.
Starting in the 1960s, Franco Zeffirelli began making renowned adaptations of this English playwrights’s works. Laurence Olivier directed and acted in adaptations of this man’s plays Henry V, Richard III and Hamlet.
Italian neorealism [or neorealismo; do not accept or prompt on “realism”]
Federico Fellini
William Shakespeare &lt;JR&gt;
This book is narrated by a man named Orhan who says that he is writing <em>The Museum of Innocence</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the poet Ka investigates the aftermath of a headscarf ban.
In a novel by this unrelated author, Shimamura and the geisha Komako take a train from Tokyo into “snow country.”
Unsurprisingly, this American poet often wrote about snow, in poems like “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” He also claimed that taking the path less-travelled by makes all the difference in “The Road Not Taken.”
Snow [or Kar]
Yasunari Kawabata [accept names in either order]
Robert (Lee) Frost &lt;JR&gt;
Chinese instruments played in this fashion include the <em>guzheng</em> and the <em>guqin</em> [“goo-CHIN”]. For 10 points each:
Name this way in which zithers like the koto are played. This is also how the shamisen and biwa are played.
The koto, biwa, and shamisen are instruments from this East Asian country, which is home to Taiko drumming. Its Gagaku orchestras were likely imported from China through Korea.
The Japanese koto is often tuned to the in scale, which has this many notes. The Japanese yo scale also has this many notes, as does Indonesian slendro.
plucking [or plucked string; accept strumming; prompt on strings]
Japan [or Nihon; or Nippon]
five &lt;JR&gt;
A character acquires this state after suffering a burst appendix during a Boy Scouts camping trip, For 10 points each:
Identify this state of characters like Wally Webb and Julia Gibbs in the third and last act of a 1938 play. In that play, characters in this state reside in a cemetery outside of Grover’s Corners.
Emily Webb, one of the dead, decides to revisit this event in her life, after which she asks the Stage Manager “Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?”
Emily Webb, Julia Gibbs, and the Stage Manager all appear in this Pulitzer-prizewinning play.
being dead [accept being a ghost or anything remotely indicating they are no longer alive]
her twelfth birthday
Our Town (by Thornton Wilder) &lt;LL&gt;
This man underwent the “Inferno Crisis,” a series of psychotic attacks that led him to develop small-scale plays that feature talking mummies and other spoo<em>ooo</em>ky happenings. For 10 points each:
Name this playwright who wrote about Agnes’s descent to Earth. In another of his plays, a count’s daughter has sex with a servant on Midsummer’s Eve.
Strindberg still found time to write some nice, normal history plays about this kind of person, including Erik XIV and Karl XII. Shakespeare wrote a play about one of these guys named Lear.
Strindberg’s play about Agnes, who’s the daughter of Indra, is titled for this kind of experience. Another play titled for this kind of experience features characters named Peaseblossom and Mustardseed.
(Johan) August Strindberg
kings [prompt on monarchs]
dreams [accept A Dream Play or Ett drömspiel; accept A Midsummer Night’s Dream] &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about Jorge Luis Borges [“HOR-hay loo-EESS BOR-hayss”]:
Borges is possibly most famous for a story describing one of these places “of Babel.” Borges directed the National one of these institutions in Argentina, even after his blindness left him unable to read its holdings.
At the end of “Pierre Menard,” Borges suggests rereading The Imitation of Christ as if it had been written by this author. This man wrote a story in which Gabriel Conroy meditates on the lasting impact of deceased people.
Borges’s story “The South,” or “El Sur,” ends with the protagonist, Juan Dahlmann, walking out of a bar and holding one of these object.
library [or bibliotecas]
James (Augustine Aloysius) Joyce (the story is “The Dead” from Dubliners.)
a knife &lt;JR&gt;
This poem asks why the “clay grew tall” and wonders why “fatuous sunbeams toil to break earth’s sleep.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, in which the speaker experiences the title state after dragging a friend’s body into the sun fails to wake him up.
“Futility” is a poem by Wilfred Owen, whose poem “Dulce et Decorum est” is titled for a phrase by this Latin poet. This Roman wrote the Ars Poetica and a number of Satires that are contrasted with Juvenal’s.
“Dulce et Decorum est” includes an attack of this kind of weapon, which inspires an “ecstasy of fumbling.” A victim of this kind of weapon has “froth-corrupted lungs, obscene as cancer.”
“Futility”
Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]
poison gas [accept specific answers like mustard gas or chlorine gas; or chemical weapons] &lt;JR&gt;
These designs are determined by the length of their ascenders and descenders, which are measured in points. For 10 points each:
Name these letter designs, whose varieties include Times New Roman and Helvetica.
Helvetica is this kind of typeface, which don’t have fancy little lines attached to the end of each stroke. Times New Roman is the opposite of this kind of typeface.
Eric Gill’s namesake sans-serif typeface was used on this publisher’s book covers by typography pioneer Jan Tschichold. A series by this publisher is famed for its black spines, now with a white stripe and orange letters.
typefaces [or fonts]
sans-serif [or gothic]
Penguin Books [accept Penguin Classics] &lt;JR&gt;
The title idol gradually comes alive and destroys the narrator’s life in this author’s story “Chac Mool.” For 10 points each:
Name this author who tried to retell the whole of Hispanic history and culture all at once in his novel Terra Nostra.
Carlos Fuentes was an author from this North American country, as were Mariano Azuela and Octavio Paz. Ambrose Bierce’s death in this country was described in Fuentes’s novel The Old Gringo.
Fuentes’s novel Christopher Unborn takes its basic structure from this novel by Laurence Sterne. This novel incessantly digresses from its story, so that the narrator only manages to get to his birth until Volume 3 (out of 4).
Carlos Fuentes (Macías)
Mexico
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman &lt;JR&gt;
Marianne von Willemer actually wrote a few of the poems in this man’s <em>West-East Divan</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poet, who wrote “soon, you too shall rest” in his poem “Wanderer’s Nightsong II.” His nonfiction includes the Italian Journey and Theory of Colours.
Goethe asked the stones to “speak” in a set of this kind of poem named for Rome. Rainer Maria Rilke asked “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?” in one of these poems.
Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship pioneered the bildungsroman, which is a genre of this kind of book. This is a general term for long narrative prose fiction like Tess of the D’Urbervilles or Sense and Sensibility.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (“GUR-tuh”)
elegies
novels [accept more specific answers like coming-of-age novels] &lt;JR&gt;
In this play, the Valium-addicted woman Harper Pitt meets Prior Walter in a dream. For 10 points each:
Name this 1993 play by Tony Kushner, separated into two parts titled “Millennium Approaches” and “Perestroika.”
In Angels in America, this lawyer contracts AIDS, but insists that it’s actually liver cancer. His nurse Belize steals some of the AIDS drug AZT he has hoarded, and he’s haunted by the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg.
Angels in America is set primarily in New York City, which is also the setting of this novel by J.D. Salinger. In this novel, narrator Holden Caulfield wonders about deep questions like “where do ducks go when the lake freezes?”
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
Roy Cohn [accept either name]
The Catcher in the Rye &lt;LL&gt;
This poet set “The Prisoner” and other poems in the fictional island country of Gondal. For 10 points each:
Name this English poet, who declared “No coward soul is mine” in an 1846 poem.
Emily Brontë is much better-known for this novel about Cathy Earnshaw’s love for the orphan Heathcliff. It’s named after the farmhouse where Heathcliff lives on Thrushcross Grange.
The story of Heathcliff and Cathy is told by the housekeeper Nelly Dean to this man. This character narrates the opening and closing chapters of the novel.
Emily Brontë [or Ellis Bell; prompt on just Brontë or Bell]
Wuthering Heights
Mr. Lockwood &lt;JR&gt;
A massive four-volume history of literature in this language was written by translator Donald Keene. For 10 points each:
Name this language whose translators into English include Jay Rubin. A classic work in this language is now available in competing translations by Dennis Washburn, Edward Seidensticker, and Royall Tyler.
Washburn, Seidensticker, and Tyler translated this Japanese “tale,” which is often considered the first modern novel. This book was written by Murasaki Shikibu around the year 1000 during the Heian period.
Seidensticker was also a main translator for this Japanese novelist. The clubfooted Kashigawi brags about seducing women who feel sorry for his disability in this author’s novel The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
Japanese [or Nihongo]
The Tale of Genji [or Genji Monogatari]
Yukio Mishima [accept names in either order] &lt;JR&gt;
At the end of the play in which these animals appear, they crowd around the stage, stamping and panting in a rhythmic fashion. For 10 points each:
Name these animals which Daisy and logician Dudard turn into in the third act of a play. The sick Jean turns into one of these animals in the second act.
Many rhinocerotes1 appear in Rhinoceros, a play by this 20th-century Romanian-French author of The Bald Soprano and other plays characterized as “Theatre of the Absurd.”
The Theatre of the Absurd drew inspiration from the writings of this French author. This man’s essays “The Theatre of Cruelty” and “No More Masterpieces” were collected in his The Theatre and its Double.
rhinoceros [accept attempts at plural forms]
Eugène Ionesco
Antonin Artaud [or Antoine Marie Joseph Artaud] &lt;LL&gt;
[<em>Note to moderator: do not reveal the alternate answer to the first bonus part unless a team gives it as their answer</em>] Many of this author’s works, including <em>Youth</em> and <em>Chance</em> are narrated by the sailor Charles Marlow. For 10 points each:
Name this early 20th-century author of Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.
Marlow doesn’t appear in this Joseph Conrad novel, in which a revolution in Costaguana is set off by silver from Charles Gould’s mine.
Amazingly, despite his great prose, English was Conrad’s third language. His native tongue was this language, which was used to write about the reign of emperor Nero in the novel Quo Vadis.
Joseph Conrad [or Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
Nostromo
Polish [or jezyk polski] &lt;JR&gt;
A poem in this language created the mythological character Adamastor. For 10 points each:
Name this language used by Luís de Camões to write The Lusiads.
This Portuguese poet made a habit of writing using alter egos or “heteronyms” like the pastoral Alberto Caeiro, the Greek-inflected Ricardo Reis, or the Whitmanesque Álvaro de Campos. He also wrote The Book of Disquiet.
Pessoa’s diverse influences included this English poet, who described “Water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink” in The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. He also wrote “Kubla Kahn.”
Portuguese
Fernando (António Nogueira) Pessoa
Samuel Taylor Coleridge &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about depictions of black women in American short stories:
This author wrote a story in which Wangero is appalled that her sister Maggie will be using traditional quilts instead of putting them in a museum. That story by this author is called “Everyday use.”
This author described the conflict between Twyla and Roberta, who are both of ambiguous race, in the short story “Recitatif.” She described Pecola Breedlove’s obsession with whiteness and beauty in The Bluest Eye.
This author described “a large woman with a large purse that had everything in it but hammer and nails” in his story “Thank you Ma’am.” This Harlem Renaissance poet also wrote “The Negro Speaks of Rivers.”
Alice (Malsenior) Walker
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
(James Mercer) Langston Hughes &lt;JR&gt;
This collection was first published in 1855, and it was revised by the author until its 1892 “deathbed” edition. For 10 points each:
Name this massive collection that includes poems like “Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking” and “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry.”
This collection of Civil War poems was added to Leaves of Grass in 1867. This collection includes such poems as “City of Ships,” “The Wound-Dresser,” and “Vigil Strange I Kept on the Field One Night.”
Leaves of Grass was written by this American poet. This man declared “Do I contradict myself? / Very well then I contradict myself / (I am large, I contain multitudes)” in his poem “Song of Myself.”
Leaves of Grass
Drum-Taps
Walt Whitman [Walter Whitman] &lt;LL&gt;
This author returned to the setting of his stories “Civil Peace” and “Girls at War” in the 2012 memoir <em>There Was a Country</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author whose advocacy of the English language was attacked by Ngugi wa Thiong’o. In this man’s last novel, several characters remember the President “His Excellency” from when he was still called “Sam.”
Achebe’s Things Fall Apart describes a masquerade council of egwugwu, who represent this kind of being. The egwugwu are “revealed” not actually to be this kind of being by Mr. Smith’s disciple Enoch.
The egwugwu are a ritual of the Igbo people of this country. Achebe, a native of this country, accused its country of war crimes during the Biafran War.
Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinualumogu Achebe] (The novel is Anthills of the Savannah.)
ancestor spirits [prompt on spirits, gods, or any other supernatural thing like that]
Federal Republic of Nigeria &lt;JR&gt;
This author’s last novel, <em>Wives and Daughters</em>, was completed by Frederick Greenwood. For 10 points each:
Name this 19th-century English author, who described the effects of the Industrial Revolution on the countryside in her novel North and South. She also wrote Cranford.
Unlike North and South, this novel by Thomas Hardy reimagines the English countryside before the Industrial Revolution. The shepherd Gabriel Oak marries the protagonist at the end of this novel.
Both Thomas Hardy and Elizabeth Gaskell were authors from this era of British history, named for a Queen who was also “Empress of India.”
Elizabeth (Cleghorn) Gaskell [accept Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson]
Far From the Madding Crowd
Victorian era &lt;JR&gt;
The title woman of one of this author’s stories is forced to put out an ad in the paper to discover who fathered her child. For 10 points each:
Name this early 19th-century German author of stories like “The Marquise of O——” and plays like The Broken Jug.
Kleist also wrote a story in which Jeronimo and Josephe are blamed for one of these disasters in Chile. Candide and Pangloss experience one of these disasters as soon as they reach Lisbon.
Kleist’s novella Michael Kohlhaas starts with two of these animals being mistreated. Odysseus had the idea to build a wooden one of these animals to sneak a Greek force into Troy.
Heinrich von Kleist
earthquakes
horses &lt;JR&gt;
This play often intermixes love and hatred, such as when Jimmy kisses Helena after fighting her at the end of Act 2. For 10 points each:
Name this 1956 play about the conflict between the working-class man Jimmy and his middle-class wife Alison. This play, which is set in a tiny flat in the Midlands, prominently features an ironing board.
Look Back in Anger author John Osborne was a member of the “Angry Young Men.” This other Angry Young Man won a Nobel Prize in 2005 and wrote “comedies of menace” like The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party.
At the opening of The Dumb Waiter, Ben reads about an elderly man being run over by a truck in this kind of publication. Evelyn Waugh’s novel Scoop fictionalizes the Telegraph and other publications of this kind.
Look Back in Anger
Harold Pinter
newspapers [prompt on papers; accept broadsheet newspapers] &lt;LL&gt;
This body part dresses in official costume and flees to Kazan cathedral. For 10 points each:
Name this body part that the barber Ivan Yakovlevich finds in his breakfast roll in a story by Nikolai Gogol.
The title poet’s giant nose stops him from pursuing Roxane directly in this play by Edmond Rostand. This play introduced the term “panache” into English.
Saleem Sinai gains telepathic powers from his giant, dripping nose in this author’s novel Midnight’s Children. A fatwa was called on this novelist after he published The Satanic Verses.
noses
Cyrano de Bergerac
Sir (Ahmad) Salman Rushdie &lt;JR&gt;
At the beginning, the protagonist of this book burns down his grandmother’s house at the age of four. For 10 points each:
Name this 1945 memoir that describes the author’s childhood in Mississippi and later membership in the John Reed Club and other communist organizations.
In Black Boy, Wright described his teenaged move to this city. Augie March grows up in this city in a novel by Saul Bellow, and a poem called it “Stormy, husky, brawling.”
Wright made his debut with a short story collection titled for this person’s children. This slave is beaten to death by Simon Legree’s overseers in a novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe titled for his Cabin.
Black Boy (by Richard Wright)
Chicago
Uncle Tom &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about bones in literature:
This poem cites the Book of Ezekiel by asking “shall these bones live?” This 1927 poem by T.S. Eliot refers to a recent event in his life with the opening line “Because I do not hope to turn again.”
Sugarcane farming in this country was referred to as The Farming of Bones in a 1998 novel by Edwidge Danticat. Danticat, who was born in country, has also written Untwine and Breath, Eyes, Memory.
All right, so this American didn’t actually write about bones in his poem “The Jewish Cemetery at Newport,” but at least he wrote the poems The Song of Hiawatha and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
“Ash Wednesday” (He had just “turned” to Anglicanism.)
Republic of Haïti
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
In one of these books by Matthew Lewis, the title monk rapes and murders Antonia, who turns out to be his own sister. For 10 points each:
Name these books, seven of which are described as “horrid” by Isabella Thorpe. Catherine Sloper avidly reads books of this kind, including The Romance of the Forest.
This author parodied Gothic novels like Ann Radcliffe’s The Mysteries of Udolpho in her novel Northanger Abbey. This woman also wrote Pride and Prejudice.
Udolpho is one of these buildings, another one of which is the setting of a novel featuring Jonathan Harker and Lucy Westenra. The first Gothic novel, written by Horace Walpole, is titled for one of these buildings in Otranto.
Gothic novels [prompt on novels]
Jane Austen
castles (The other novel mentioned in the first sentence is Dracula.) &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer some question about Marilyn Monroe….and literature:
After she divorced him, Monroe was depicted as Maggie in this man’s play After the Fall. This man depicted Italian-American dockworkers in A View from the Bridge, and also wrote All My Sons.
Monroe’s studio was afraid her marriage to Miller would lead to scrutiny by the House Un-American Activities Committee. That committee inspired this earlier Arthur Miller play, which is about the Salem Witch Trials.
Monroe starred in Bus Stop, a 1956 film adaptation of this man’s play of the same name. Other works by this “Playwright of the Midwest” include Come Back, Little Sheba and The Dark at the Top of the Stairs.
Arthur (Asher) Miller
The Crucible
William (Motter) Inge &lt;LL&gt;
In this play, Caliban curses the man who taught him his language. For 10 points each:
Name this Shakespeare play in which Ariel’s master Prospero conjures up the title storm.
In a song, Ariel describes the drowning of Ferdinand’s father using this alliterative phrase, which describes Alonso’s distance beneath the waves.
This French-language author reimagined The Tempest with Prospero as a slaveholder and Ariel as a mulatto. This founder of négritude also wrote A Season in Congo.
The Tempest
full fathom five
Aimé (Ferdinand David) Césaire &lt;JR&gt; do not accept or prompt on “Sean Phillips”—ed.↩
This play opens with a spy informing the king Eteocles that the title characters have arrived. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the title characters, who include Amphiaraus and Polynices, assault a Greek city.
Seven Against Thebes was written by this Ancient Greek playwright, who also wrote the Oresteia trilogy. This “father of tragedy” only wanted to be remembered for his valor at the Battle of Marathon.
Like most Greek tragedies, Seven Against Thebes has the chorus sing odes divided into two poetic units that correspond to opposite directions. Name either; one means “twist” in Greek, while the other is just its opposite.
Seven Against Thebes [or Hepta epi Thebas]
Aeschylus
strophe OR antistrophe &lt;LL&gt;
This paper attacked Handel’s operas and introduced characters like Sir Roger de Coverley. For 10 points each:
Name this successor to The Tattler, an early 18th-century London paper edited by prominent Whigs Joseph Addison and Richard Steele.
Richard Steele had earlier “discovered” this Irish-born satirist, who “advocated” eating peasant babies in A Modest Proposal. His less gruesome works include Gulliver’s Travels.
After Gulliver goes to Lilliput, he visits the giants of Brobdingnag, who supposedly live in this place. Crèvecœur wrote some Letters from a farmer from this place, and Philip Freneau lived here.
The Spectator
Jonathan Swift
North America [accept Letters from an American Farmer; accept Virginia; accept New York; prompt on answers like the British colonies] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the works of Mark Twain:
In his namesake book, this friend of Tom Sawyer travels down the Mississippi with the escaped slave Jim.
Mark Twain wrote a short story about gambling on one of these things named for Daniel Webster. That one of these things is described by Simon Wheeler, who tells an interviewer about owner, Jim Smiley.
At the beginning of this Mark Twain novel, the slave Roxy switches her baby with that of her master’s. Later in this novel, the title Missouri lawyer1 uses his fingerprinting skills to discover the true murderer of Judge Driscoll.
Huckleberry Finn [accept either]
frogs [accept more specific answers like “The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County”; do not accept or prompt on “toads”]
The Tragedy of Pudd’nhead Wilson &lt;MK&gt;
A “manifesto” for this movement was written by André Breton, who also wrote the novel <em>Nadja</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this movement of Jacques Prévert, who wrote the collection Paroles. Many authors in this movement drew words out of a hat or practiced “automatic writing” to access the unconscious.
This frenchman coined the term “surrealism” and is considered a forefather of the movement. This author of the collection Alcools set his poems into shapes in the collection Calligrammes.
Apollinaire’s Calligrammes were inspired by his experience being wounded in this war in 1916. English poetry from this war is the subject of Paul Fussell’s book The Great War and Modern Memory.
surrealism [accept Dada]
Guillaume Apollinaire [or Wilhelm Albert Włodzimierz Apolinary Kostrowicki]
World War I [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;MK&gt;
Most of Tobias Smollett’s works were this kind of novel. For 10 points each:
Name this genre of novel that features a roguish hero, usually of low class. This genre is signalled by titles like The Adventures of…
This Spanish novel is usually considered to be the first picaresque novel. In this novel’s seven “treatises,” the boy protagonist learns how to steal from a blind beggar and eventually becomes a town crier.
Lazarillo de Tormes was written in the middle of this century. Shakespeare began writing at the very end of this century.
picaresque novel
Lazarillo de Tormes [or The Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and of His Fortunes and Adversities; or La vida de Lazarillo de Tormes y de sus fortunas y adversidades]
16th century [or 1500s] &lt;JR&gt;
This language was constructed from a mix of rhyming slang and Slavic roots. For 10 points each:
Name this language of words like “cutter” and “pretty polly,” both of which mean “money.” Bizarrely, in this language, “horrorshow” means “good.”
Nadsat was featured in this novel, in which a group of “droogs” hang out at the Korova Milk Bar.
The protagonist of A Clockwork Orange, Alex loves nothing more than playing records of this German composer’s symphonies. Alex nicknames this man “Good Ol’ Ludwig van.”
Nadsat
A Clockwork Orange
Ludwig van Beethoven &lt;MK&gt;
A man with this condition romances Zoya and Vera Gangart in a Kazakhstan clinic. For 10 points each:
Name this condition afflicting the exile Oleg Kostoglotov in a 1966 novel.
Cancer Ward was written by this Soviet dissident author, who also wrote One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich takes place in one of these Soviet forced-labor camps. These camps were compared to an “archipelago” in a nonfiction work by Solzhenitsyn.
lung cancer [accept Cancer Ward]
Aleksandr (Isayevich) Solzhenitsyn
gulags &lt;JR&gt;
This queen’s poems include “Ah, Silly Pug, wert thou so Sore Afraid.” For 10 points each:
Name this queen of England who names the literary era in which Marlowe worked and Shakespeare got his start.
Elizabeth was the dedicatee of this multi-book epic poem, which depicts the lady knight Britomart, the wizard Archimago, and the Holy Redcross Knight.
The Faerie Queene’s Spenserian stanzas end with this kind of line, which has twelve syllables and a caesura in the middle. This kind of line was used for the almost all “high” French verse before the 19th century.
Elizabeth I
The Faerie Queene (by Edmund Spenser)
alexandrines &lt;JR&gt;
Near this novel’s beginning, the protagonist watches her sister and a friend undress to get in a fountain after they break a vase. For 10 points each:
Name this 2001 novel, in which Briony Tallis falsely accuses Robbie Turner of raping her cousin Lola.
Atonement was written by this British author, who followed a neurosurgeon during an Iraq war protest in his novel Saturday.
McEwan’s most recent novel, Nutshell, is written from the perspective of this character as a fetus. This character’s lines include “What’s Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba?” and “To be or not to be, that is the question.”
Atonement
Ian (Russell) McEwan
Prince Hamlet &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about contemporary American novelist Don DeLillo:
DeLillo wrote about Gary Harkness playing this sport at a small college in Texas in the novel End Zone.
DeLillo also wrote about baseball. At the beginning of this long DeLillo novel, Cotter Martin grabs a ball hit by Bobby Thomson for a home run.
In DeLillo’s novel Running Dog, Moll Robbins looks for pornography allegedly made by this man. Jack Gladney, the protagonist of DeLillo’s White Noise, is a professor who studies this 20th-century political leader.
American football [prompt on gridiron football]
Underworld
Adolf Hitler &lt;MK&gt;
For 10 points each—it’s time to name some Shakespeare villains:
This title character says a certain event has been “made glorious summer by this sun of York” at the opening of the play. He orders Clarence drowned in wine, and is told by various characters to “despair and die” in the final act.
This villain calls jealousy a “green-eyed monster” and convinces Othello to kill his wife Desdemona.
This protagonist with villainous tendencies calls life “a walking shadow” and asks “Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood clean from my hand?” This man’s wife curses “Out, damned spot!”
Richard III [prompt on just Richard]
Iago
Macbeth &lt;LL&gt;
This character gets his appearance from Guanyin after harassing the moon goddess Chang’e. For 10 points each:
Name this character who wields a “nine-tooth iron rake.”
That pig appears in this novel, in which he accompanies the monk Xuanzang [“shwan-zahng”].
Xuanzang is a monk of this religion. The life of this religion’s founder was reimagined in Hermann Hesse’s novel Siddhartha.
Pigsy [or Zhu Bajie; or Zhu Wuneng; accept Eight Precepts Pig]
Journey to the West [or Xi you ji; accept Monkey]
Buddhism [accept word forms like Buddhist] &lt;JR&gt;
This author used second-person narration in every other chapter of his novel <em>If on a winter’s night a traveller</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this 20th-century Italian author, who had Marco Polo describe hundreds of versions of Venice to Genghis Khan in Invisible Cities.
Italo Calvino also published a massive collection of these stories from Italy. German tales of this kind were collected by the Brothers Grimm.
Most of Calvino’s Cosmicomics are narrated by this character, who claims to be as old as the universe. This unpronounceably-named character narrates all of the stories in Calvino’s t zero.
Italo Calvino
folktales [or fables; accept fairy tales; accept folklores]
Qfwfq [accept any pronunciation that has the consonant sounds “K-F-F-K” in that order] &lt;JR&gt;
This poem’s speaker asks “What is there in life except one's ideas?” For 10 points each:
Name this thirty-three section long poem. In it, the title character is told “You do not play things as they are.”
“The Man with the Blue Guitar” is a poem by this man, who also wrote “The Idea of Order at Key West” and the collection Harmonium.
Wallace Stevens also wrote a poem about an old sailor who catches these animals. In a William Blake poem, one of these big cats is “burning bright in the forest of the night.”
“The Man with the Blue Guitar”
Wallace Stevens
tigers &lt;JR&gt;
This poem titles a collection that includes a revised version of “Beyond the Alps.” For 10 points each:
Name this 1964 poem that describes a monument that “sticks like a fishbone in the city’s throat.” It describes a Boston statue of Robert Gould Shaw “riding on his bubble” as “he waits for the blessèd break.”
“For the Union Dead” was written by Confessional poet Robert Lowell. Probably the best-known Confessional poet is this woman, who wrote “Lady Lazarus” and described “A man in black with a Meinkampf look” in “Daddy.”
Another huge influence on Lowell was an earlier Imagist poet whose most famous poem recounts taking these items. That short poem describes these items as “delicious, so sweet and so cold.”
“For the Union Dead”
Sylvia Plath
the plums that were in the icebox, and which you were probably saving for breakfast &lt;JR&gt;
One of these people is assumed to be at the pub, but actually turns out to be dead, in the story “Odour of Chrysanthemums.” For 10 points each:
Name this profession of Gertrude Coppard’s husband, who is Paul Morel’s father, in a 1913 novel.
“Odour of Chrysanthemums” and Paul Morel were created by this English author. In his most famous novel, Sir Clifford is paralyzed by an injury from the Great War.
The publisher of that novel, Lady Chatterley’s Lover was put on trial for this crime. Other books that led to trials for this crime included James Joyce’s Ulysses and Henry Miller’s Tropic of Cancer.
coal miners [prompt on partial answer]
D.H. Lawrence [David Herbert Lawrence] (Paul Morel is from Sons and Lovers.)
obscenity [accept rough equivalents like indecency or explicitness] &lt;JR&gt;
A kite features prominently in this play as a symbol of the relationship between a character and his servant Sam. For 10 points each:
Name this play by Athol Fugard, which centers on the racial tensions between the title white teenager and his two black servants, Sam and Willie, who form the second title group.
Sam and Willie practice this activity at the beginning and the end of the play. Sam uses this activity as a metaphor to describe an ideal “world without collisions.”
Athol Fugard, like Nadine Gordimer and J.M. Coetzee, is from this country. All of those authors strongly criticized the policy of apartheid in this country.
“Master Harold”...and the boys
ballroom dancing [accept reasonable equivalents]
Republic of South Africa [or RSA] &lt;LL&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about fish in 20th-century American poetry:
This American poet described a “battered and venerable and homely” fish whose “brown skin hung in strips like ancient wallpaper” in a poem that ends “everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow! And I let the fish go.”
Marianne Moore, a poet from this movement, described “the sun, split like spun glass” in her poem “The Fish.” This early 20th-century movement used “difficult” techniques like fragmentation and stream-of-consciousness.
Marianne Moore was championed by this fellow Modernist poet of The Waste-Land. This poet didn’t write much about fish, but he did describe “sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown” in his book Prufrock.
Elizabeth Bishop
modernism [accept word forms like modernist]
T.S. Eliot [Thomas Stearns Eliot] &lt;JR&gt;
Terms like “chorus” and “catharsis” are taken from this language. For 10 points each:
Name this language of tragedians like Sophocles, who were critical to the development of Western drama. The “rules” of drama were laid down in this language by Aristotle’s Poetics.
This 19th-century playwright’s catharsis-free comedies proved that Aristotle wasn’t the be-all-end-all of drama. This man’s play Three Sisters was premiered by the Moscow Art Theatre, run by the forerunner of Method Acting.
This other writer ditched Aristotle for techniques like the “alienation effect,” which he discussed in his essay “On Chinese Acting.” This man wrote the original lyrics for “Mack the Knife.”
(Ancient) Greek [or Hellenike]
Anton (Pavlovich) Chekhov (That forerunner is Konstantin Stanislavski.)
(Eugen) Bertolt (Friedrich) Brecht &lt;LL&gt;
In Graham Greene’s 1982 parody, this title character travels around in a SEAT 600 car. For 10 points each:
Name this title character of a novel supposedly translated from an Arabic text written by “Cide Hamete Benengeli,” which means “my Lord eggplant.” This character’s book collection is burned by a priest and a barber.
Don Quixote was written by this man Spanish author, who also wrote twelve Exemplary Novels.
Don Quixote frees this self-proclaimed legendary criminal from a chain gang, but this man then steals Sancho Panza’s donkey, a fact we don’t learn until much later. This man also gives a puppet show as “Master Peter.”
Don Quixote [accept Alonso Quixano]
Miguel de Cervantes (Saavedra)
Ginés de Pasamonte [accept either name] &lt;MK&gt;
This poet described man being nailed to God by “Crow Blacker than Ever.” For 10 points each:
Name this English poet who described the “sudden sharp hot stink” of an animal that enters “the dark hole of the head” in his poem “The Thought Fox.” That poem was included in his collection The Hawk in the Rain.
Hughes’s “The Thought-Fox” begins describing the “loneliness” of this object at midnight. A W.H. Auden poem begins with a command to “stop all” of these devices.
Auden’s “Stop all the clocks” is often titled for a “Funeral” version of this kind of music. This “drowsy” kind of music “drones” in a poem set on Lenox Avenue.
Ted Hughes [Edward James Hughes]
clocks
the blues [accept “Funeral Blues”; accept “The Weary Blues”] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about artists in French literature.
This author fictionalized his friendship with Cézanne in the novel L’Œuvre. He depicted alcoholism among the working-class poor in the novel L’Assommoir.
Cézanne had in turn been depicted by the depiction of Master Frenhofer in Balzac’s The Unknown Masterpiece. Like almost everything else Balzac wrote, that story was included in this massive collection.
This novelist fictionalized the life of Benvenuto Cellini in Ascanio, but you almost certainly know him better for writing The Count of Monte Cristo and The Three Musketeers
Émile (Édouard Charles Antoine) Zola
The Human Comedy [or La Comédie humaine]
Alexandre Dumas, père [or Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie] &lt;JR&gt; Tiebreaker
This art’s “canon” of invention included the mustering of various <em>topoi</em> of discourse. For 10 points each:
Give this general term for the art of persuasion through spoken argument, which is exemplified by speeches by orators like Demosthenes.
This Roman laid out much of the Classical knowledge of rhetoric in his dialogue De Oratore. This author of De Re Publica used Demosthenes’s Philippics as a model for his most famous work.
As laid out by Cicero, a good speech should conclude with this kind of section, which follows the “confutation” of counterarguments.
rhetoric
Marcus Tullius Cicero
peroration &lt;JR&gt;
In a short story titled for this character trait, a murderer declares that an old woman might have had this trait “if it had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life.” For 10 points each:
Name this character trait that turns out not to apply to the Bible salesman Manley Pointer in another story. This is the first title adjective in a short story in which The Misfit shoots the grandmother.
Those stories, “Good Country People” and “A Good Man is Hard to Find,” were written by this Georgia-born Catholic short story writer.
O’Connor often depicted characters with disabilities, including Tom and Lucynell from “The Life You Save May Be Your Own.” For 5 points each, name Tom and Lucynell’s handicaps.
good [accept “Good Country People”; accept “A Good Man is Hard to Find”]
(Mary) Flannery O’Connor
one-armed (Tom) and deaf/mute (Lucynell; accept either) [accept reasonable equivalents or descriptions; accept answers without attributions, but do not accept answers that attribute the disabilities incorrectly, e.g. “Tom is deaf and Lucynell has one arm”] &lt;JR&gt;
This poem opens with a claim to tell “things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme,” a line that Milton ironically plagiarized in <em>Paradise Lost</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this epic poem in which Ruggiero is kidnapped by the sorceress Alcina.
Orlando Furioso was one of the many epic poems written in this language during the Renaissance. The Renaissance was kicked off by Petrarch’s poems in this language.
Luigi Pulci’s epic poem Morgante centers on one of these creatures. One of these creatures builds the Abbey of Thélème and another befriends Panurge in a particularly bawdy book from 16th-century France.
Orlando Furioso
Italian [or Italiano]
giants (Those are Gargantua and Pantagruel, from the book by François Rabelais.) &lt;JR&gt;
This poet described “dull sublunary lovers’ love” after calling the “trepidation of the spheres” innocent. For 10 points each:
Name this 17th-century English poet, who compared himself and his lover to the twin legs of a compass in “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.” He also wrote some Holy Sonnets and erotic poems like “The Flea.”
The compass conceit can be described as an “extended” one of these figures of speech, which equates two objects.
As part of the compass conceit, Donne concludes the “Valediction” by saying that his lover’s “firmness” does two circle-related things to him. Name or describe either thing.
John Donne
extended metaphor (Similes only compare two objects.)
“makes my circle just” OR “makes me end where I begun” [accept rephrasings; accept any answer that involved correcting his circle or making his circle perfect; accept any answer involving an ending that’s the same as a beginning, etc.] &lt;JR&gt;
For 10 points each—answer the following about the Roman poet Sextus Propertius:
Propertius was among the many poets sponsored by this man, who owned some famous Gardens. The Georgics were written in honor of this friend of Augustus.
Propertius invariably wrote in paired lines, which are thus given this name. A Shakespearean sonnet ends with a pair of lines that rhyme, which are thus called a “rhyming” one of these things.
By 1700, English authors were obsessed with this kind of rhyming couplet, which was used in almost all of the works of Alexander Pope. Pope’s Rape of the Lock mocks this style, which was associated with the epic.
Gaius (Cilnius) Maecenas
couplets
heroic couplet &lt;JR&gt;
A riot broke out at the Abbey Theater after the fourth performance of this play, which formed part of its author’s “Dublin Trilogy.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Jack and Nora Clitheroe experience the Easter Rising. Characters like Peter Flynn loot in the third act of this play, and Bessie is mistaken for an enemy sniper and shot at its end.
The Plough and the Stars is part of Sean O’Casey’s “Dublin Trilogy” of plays about this country.
Another Irish playwright is this author of Endgame. His most famous play features a bizarre monologue by Lucky and opens with the declaration “nothing to be done” from a man whose name means “tarragon.”
The Plough and the Stars
Ireland [or Eire]
Samuel (Barclay) Beckett (That play is Waiting for Godot.) &lt;LL&gt;
Bonus: The title character in this novel is enlisted in the army as a medic in Yuriatin. For ten points each:
Name this novel set during the Russian Revolution in which Yuri, the title physician, falls in love with a woman named Lara.
This Soviet author was forced by USSR to decline the 1958 Nobel prize he was awarded for his novel Doctor Zhivago
This character from Doctor Zhivago, the husband of Lara, attains the nickname Strelnikov, or “the shooter” for his merit in the White Army.
Doctor Zhivago
Boris Pasternak
Pasha Antipov &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Name these literary detectives, for ten points each:
\This detective fights Professor Moriarty to the death at Reichenbach Falls in “The Final Problem”. This resident of 221B Baker Street investigates the case in The Hound of the Baskervilles with Dr. Watson.
Edgar Allen Poe created this French detective who appears in “The Murders in the Rue Morgue” as well as “The Mystery of Marie Roget” and “The Purloined Letter”.
This detective was played by Humphrey Bogart in a movie based off of a work he appears in, and is a recurring character of Raymond Chandler. His first appearance was in The Big Sleep.
Sherlock Holmes (accept either underlined answer)
C. Auguste Dupin (accept either underlined answer)
Philip Marlowe (accept either underlined answer) &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This man described the Second Punic War in his epic poem <em>Africa</em>. For ten points each:
Name this father of Renaissance humanism who wrote poems, moral treatises, and recovered Latin texts. He names a type of sonnet that contrasts with those named for Shakespeare.
Petrarch addressed several Italian, or Petrarchan sonnets, in the style of troubadours to a woman with this name, some of which are in his collection Il Canzoniere.
After climbing this French peak, Petrarch asserted in a published letter that he was the first person to climb a mountain solely for its view. That letter is featured in his collection Epistolae familiares.
Petrarch [also accept Francesco Petrarca]
Laura
Mont Ventoux [accept The Ascent of Mont Ventoux] &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: A character shouts “it was PINEAPPLE, SEE?!” after being attacked by another character who thought he was opening a can with this food in it. For ten points each:
Name this food. A character catches a tiger after noting that “tigers will do ANYTHING” for a sandwich with this food.
Those stories appear in this Bill Watterson comic, which follows the life of the title six-year old and his stuffed tiger. Other characters in this comic include the title character’s neighbor, Susie Derkins, and his teacher, Mrs. Wormwood.
Calvin once described this babysitter of his as a “sadistic kid hater” to her boyfriend Charlie, and in the last strip where she appears, this woman plays Calvinball with the two.
Tuna [or Tuna can, Tuna fish sandwich, just accept anything containing tuna, prompt on “fish”]
Calvin and Hobbes
Rosalyn &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: At the end of this novel, the protagonist’s corpse is placed at the altar of the cathedral he once built with Don Antonio Olivares. For ten points each:
Name this novel about Jean Marie Latour’s efforts to spread Catholicism in New Mexico.
In this other novel by the author of Death Comes for the Archbishop, the Swedish immigrant Alexandra Bergson marries Carl Linstrum after her younger brother, Emil, is killed.
Death Comes for the Archbishop and O Pioneers! are both books by this author, whose Great Plains trilogy also includes My Antonia.
Death Comes for the Archbishop
O Pioneers!
Willa Cather &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Name these Shakespeare plays. For ten points each:
This comedy is performed for the drunkard Christopher Sly and centers around Petruchio’s attempts to control his wife Katherina, who represents the title animal.
Shakespeare’s recurring character Falstaff appears as a central figure in this comedic play, in which he fails to court the wealthy Mistresses Page and Ford with love letters.
This Shakespearean tragedy is set in Rome and follows the life of Caius Marcius, the title Roman general, who is eventually killed by Aufidius for betraying the Volscians.
Taming of the Shrew
The Merry Wives of Windsor
The Tragedy of Coriolanus &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This character is a wealthy landowner who owns an estate in Yonville. For ten points each:
Name this character that engages in a lengthy affair with the protagonist, but ends their relationship with a letter placed in a basket of apricots.
The title character of this novel carries out affairs with Rodolphe Boulanger and Leon Dupuis, demonstrating her unfaithfulness to her husband Charles.
Madame Bovary was written by this 19th century French author.
Rodolphe Boulanger [accept either underlined part]
Madame Bovary
Gustave Flaubert &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: To mimic the circular Aztec calendar, this poem begins and ends with the same 6 lines. For ten points each:
Name this poem that begins by talking about a “willow of crystal, a poplar of water, a pillar of fountain by the wind drawn over.” Because the Earth lines up with Venus every 584 days, this poem has 584 lines.
This author of “Sunstone” claimed that “Solitude is the profoundest fact of the human condition” in his The Labyrinth of Solitude. He also defends the importance of poetry in his The Bow and the Lyre.
Octavio Paz is an author from this country, which is also the setting of The House on Mango Street by Sandra Cisneros as well as Graham Greene’s The Power and the Glory.
Sunstone [or Piedra de Sol]
Octavio Paz
Mexico &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Gustave Doré created several woodcuts of the two main characters of this story collection. For ten points each:
Name this 16th century collection of novels about the adventures of two giants. The first title character is the father of the second title character, who becomes friends with Panurge and journeys with him to the Oracle of the Holy Bottle.
The stories of Gargantua and Pantagruel were written by this medieval French author, who published his first book under the pseudonym, Alcofribas Nasier.
The carnivalesque and grotesque aspects of Gargantua and Pantagruel were analyzed in Rabelais and His World, a work of literary criticism by this Russian thinker, who also coined the term “heteroglossia”.
The Life of Gargantua and Pantagruel [accept La vie de Gargantua et de Pantagruel]
Francois Rabelais
Mikhail Mikhailovich Bakhtin &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Examples of these types of works include “How the frog lost its tail” and “How the zebra got its stripes.” For ten points each:
Name these stories, often with non-human subjects, that aim to teach a moral or some other lesson. A famous one describes how a fox tries and fails to reach some grapes, and then concludes that he didn’t want them anyway.
This French author compiled hundreds of fables into several volumes in his Fables. He also wrote The Loves of Cupid and Psyche.
This Ancient Greek author also wrote a number of fables, including “The Lion and the Mouse” and “The Tortoise and the Hare”.
fables [prompt generously on things like “tales”, “myths”, “legends”]
Jean de La Fontaine
Aesop &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This work ends by noting how the “black bank of clouds” and the “tranquil waterway” seemed to create the title location. For ten points each:
Identify this novella in which Charles Marlow visits the post of ivory trader Kurtz in the Congo.
This Polish-British writer wrote Lord Jim and The Secret Agent in addition to Heart of Darkness.
In this other Conrad work, the title Italian character travels to the island of Great Isabel with Martin Decoud to keep silver away from the fictional government of Costaguana.
Heart of Darkness
Joseph Conrad (accept Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski)
Nostromo &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: In a certain poem, this entity “comes / on little cat feet”. For ten points each:
Name this natural phenomenon that titles a poem in which it “sits looking over harbor and city / on silent haunches / and then moves on”.
“Fog” was written by this American poet. He orders to “Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo / Shovel them under and let me work” in his poem “Grass”.
Carl Sandburg called this home city of his “Hog Butcher for the World / Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat” in his most famous poem, which is titled after this city.
“Fog”
Carl Sandburg
Chicago &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: In this novel, the character Zabeth enrolls his son in Father Huismans’ school. For ten points each:
Name this novel in which Salim tries to create a business in an African country ruled by the “Big Man”.
A Bend in the River is a novel by this Trinidadian-born author, who also wrote about Mr. Popo in Miguel Street.
In this most famous novel by Naipaul, the main character Mohun stays with the Tulsi family since he does not have the title structure.
A Bend in the River
V.S. Naipaul (accept Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul)
A House for Mr. Biswas &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: Because he frequently wrote about them, this man was known as the “poet of the Caucasus.” For ten points each:
Name this poet who described Pechorin’s love for Vera in diaries given to the narrator by Maxim Maximych in A Hero of Our Time. He wrote about a fight in The Song of the Merchant Kalashnikov.
This other Russian poet described a failed bet in his The Queen of Spades. Modest Mussorgsky based one opera off of this poet’s Boris Godunov.
The title character of this Pushkin play kills Lensky in a duel after he flirts with Lensky’s fiance. At the end of this play, the title character is rejected by the woman he himself had once rejected, Tatyana.
Mikhail Lermontov
Aleksandr Pushkin
Eugene Onegin &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: The first chapter of this novel describes “A lovely road that runs from Ixopo into the hills”. For ten points each:
Identify this novel in which Stephen Kumalo searches for his son, Absalom, only to find out that he is sentenced to death after murdering Arthur Jarvis.
Stephen Kumalo goes to Johannesburg not only to find his son, but also to visit this sister of his, who he was told had fallen ill in a letter. When he gets to Johannesburg, he finds that she has become a liquor seller and a prostitute.
Cry, the Beloved Country is by this South African author who also wrote Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful.
Cry, the Beloved Country
Gertrude
Alan Paton &lt;AG+MS+RP&gt;
Bonus: The ending fragment of this work forms a complete sentence when combined with the first sentence. For ten points each:
Name this book which contains characters such as one who gets his nickname while trying to catch earwigs with a flowerpot, “Earwicker.” Because of its unusual writing style, summaries of its plot often differ greatly.
This other novel by the author of Finnegans Wake describes the activities of Leopold Bloom on one day. It famously ends with his wife, Molly Bloom, thinking “yes I said yes I will yes” as she remembers accepting his marriage proposal.
This Irish author of Ulysses and Finnegans Wake included the story “The Dead” in his collection Dubliners. He also wrote about Stephen Dedalus in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
Finnegans Wake
Ulysses
James Joyce &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: A poem by Amy Lowell describes these New England flowers of this type as “False blue / White / [and] Purple”. For ten points each:
Name these flowers that also title another poem whose speaker mourns after he witnesses “the great star early droop’d in the western sky in the night”.
When Lilacs in the Dooryard Last Bloom’d was written by this American poet to commemorate the death of Abraham Lincoln. He wrote “I celebrate myself, and sing myself” in “Song of Myself”, which is in his collection Leaves of Grass.
Whitman also wrote this other poem as a eulogy to Abraham Lincoln, which declares, “our fearful trip is done” and ends with the title character “Fallen cold and dead”.
Lilacs [accept “When Lilacs in the Dooryard Last Bloom’d”]
Walt Whitman
O Captain! My Captain! &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: In this novel, one character says his feelings through Shakespearean dramas such as Othello, Romeo and Juliet, and Hamlet, and the World State is a dictatorship ruling London. For ten points each:
Name this novel in which Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx go on a vacation to a Native American reservation in New Mexico.
When Lenina and Bernard visit the Savage Reservation, they meet this woman who became stranded on the Reservation during a vacation, and had a child with the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning.
Brave New World, intended to be a satire mocking other science fiction novels, was written by this English author.
Brave New World
Linda
Aldous Huxley &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: The speaker of this poem describes the title feeling as a “little bird / that kept so many warm,” for ten points each:
Name this poem that describes a feeling “that perches in the soul / and sings the tune without the words.”
The author of “Hope is a thing with feathers” also wrote about hearing a “blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz” in this poem whose speaker “could not see to see.”
“Hope is a thing with feathers” and “I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died” were both written by this American, a reclusive “Belle of Amherst”, who also wrote, “Because I Could Not Stop for Death”.
““Hope” is the thing with feathers”
“I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died”
Emily Dickinson &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: A character in this novel tries to read all of the nonfiction books in alphabetical order, but fails to do so after being banned banned from the library for sexual assault. For ten points each:
Name this novel written in diary entries, in which Antoine Roquentin diagnoses himself with the title phenomena after becoming disgusted with everything in the town of Bouville.
Nausea was written by this French author. He wrote a play about the avengement of Agamemnon’s death by his daughters in The Flies.
In this play by Sartre, the damned souls Estelle, Garcin, and Ines confess to their crimes in a second-empire style room. After failing to leave the inescapable room, Garcin concludes that “hell is other people”.
Nausea
Jean Paul Sartre
No Exit &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This work is often considered to be the world’s first novel. For 10 points each:
Name this work which follows the life and various love affairs of the title son of Emperor Kiritsubo, including one with a concubine named Lady Kiritsubo.
The Tale of Genji was written by this Japanese lady-in-waiting during the 11th century, during the Heian period. Because Chinese characters were primarily used by men at the time, this woman most likely wrote The Tale of Genji in kana.
This chapter of The Tale of Genji is left entirely blank. It is usually assumed that this chapter refers to the death of Genji.
The Tale of Genji
Lady Murasaki Shikibu [or Fujiwara Takoko, accept any underlined word]
“Vanished into the Clouds” [or “Kumogakure”] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: In this work, because of his family’s poor financial situation, one character’s son, “Little Father Time” kills his siblings and hangs himself, leaving a note that says “Done because we are too menny.” For ten points each:
Name this novel, which follows the title character and his relationships with Arabella and Sue Bridehead.
This author of Jude the Obscure also described the suitors of Batsheba Everdeen, including Gabriel Oak, in his Far from the Madding Crowd, and he also wrote The Mayor of Casterbridge. He often set his novels in the fictional county of Wessex.
The title character of this other Hardy novel is arrested at Stonehenge after killing Alec in order to be with her lover, Angel Clare.
Jude the Obscure
Thomas Hardy
Tess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: A wounded character in this story is referred to as the “tattered man”, who follows the main character. For ten points each:
The adventures of the protagonist Henry Fleming are described in this novel set during the Civil War.
The Red Badge of Courage is the most famous work of this American Naturalist author, who also wrote about the Swede in his short story, “The Blue Hotel”.
In his poem “In the Desert,” Stephen Crane describes a “creature, naked, beastial” that eats this “bitter” part of its body.
The Red Badge of Courage
Stephen Crane
heart &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This poem notes that “early though the laurel grows, it withers quicker than the rose”. For ten points each:
Name this poem about a runner. The speaker remembers how “the time you won your town the race / We chaired you through the market-place”.
This author included “To an Athlete Dying Young” in his collection A Shropshire Lad. He also wrote the poem “The Lent Lily.”
This Housman poem notes that “Malt does more than Milton can/to justify god’s ways to man”. The poem ends with the title character saying “I tell the tale that I heard told / Mithridates, he died old”.
“To an Athlete Dying Young”
A.E. Housman
“Terence, this is Stupid Stuff” &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: The main character of this work is placed in a zoo exhibit on the alien planet of Tralfamadore. For ten points each:
Name this novel about the time travelling Billy Pilgrim that takes place during the Dresden firebombing.
This author based his magnum opus Slaughterhouse-Five off of his own experiences of the 1945 Firebombing of Dresden. He included the recurring author Kilgore Trout in many of his other novels such as Breakfast of Champions and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater.
One of Vonnegut’s lesser known works is this dystopian short story set in the year 2081, in which agents of the Handicap General enforce the Equality Laws which require American citizens to wear masks if they are beautiful, radios if they are intelligent, and weights if they are strong.
Slaughterhouse-Five
Kurt Vonnegut
“Harrison Bergeron” &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: Rogozhin kills the beautiful Nastasya Filipovna in his book about Prince Myshkin, <em>The Idiot</em>. For ten points each:
Name this Russian author who penned the axe murderer Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment.
Dmitri, Ivan, and Alexei are the sons of Fyodor in this final novel by Dostoevsky. After Dmitri is accused of murdering his father Fyodor, he receives a sentence of twenty years of labor for the crime that Smerdyakov actually committed.
The Brothers Karamazov contains this frequently cited tale that Ivan tells to Alyosha about the arrest of Jesus for dooming mankind by allowing free will.
Fyodor Dostoevsky
The Brothers Karamazov
The Parable of the Grand Inquisitor &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This text claims “When there was but one mind in England, Chaucer wrote his <em>Troilus and Cressida</em>”. For ten points each:
Name this text written by William Butler Yeats that discusses a conversation he had with a “distinguished Bengali doctor of medicine”. It precedes a collection of poetry and “song offerings”.
That “doctor of medicine” was this man, the first non-European to win the Nobel Prize in Literature and the author of Gitanjali.
Tagore was also a proponent of the arts, composing two major works in this genre: India’s Jana Gana Mana and Bangladesh’s Amar Shonar Bangla. “The Star-Spangled Banner” is another work in this genre.
the introduction to the Gitanjali
Rabindranath Tagore
national anthems &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: After this character speaks, the reeve feels insulted and attacks his profession. For ten points each:
Name this character, who despite being drunk, tells a story in which Nicholas warns the landlord of a flood so that he can sleep with Alison in a bath tub.
The Miller and his tale appear in this collection of 24 stories told by a group of pilgrims on their way to the title city to visit the tomb of Sir Thomas Becket.
The Canterbury Tales is a work by this English author.
The Miller [or The Miller’s Tale]
The Canterbury Tales [or Tales of Canterbury]
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;MS+RP&gt;
Bonus: When this man’s head is chopped off, he merely picks it up and rides off. For ten points each:
Name this character who comes to Camelot in order to engage in a blow-for-blow game. At the end of the tale where he appears, it is revealed that this man is actually Bertilak de Hautdesert.
This knight accepts the Green Knight’s challenge, knocking off the Green Knight’s head with his blow. The Green Knight tells him to go to the Green Chapel so he can return the blow a year and a day later.
As it turns out, the entire “game” was a trick engineered by this enchantress, King Arthur’s half-sister. She frequently interferes with Arthur and his knights, and even participates in the cause of his death by stealing the scabbard of Excalibur.
Green Knight [prompt on Bredbeddle]
Sir Gawain
Morgan le Fay [accept either underlined part, accept Morgan le Faye, Morgen, Morgaine, Morgain, Morgana Morganna, Morgant, Morgane, Morgne, Morge, Morgue] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: A choir in this play sings, “Blessed Be the Tie that Binds”, and the leader of that choir, Simon Stimson, eventually commits suicide. For ten points each:
Name this play narrated by the Stage Manager, which details life in Grover’s Corners, Massachusetts.
Brother Juniper witnesses the death of five people from the collapse of the title Bridge of San Luis Rey in a novel by this author, who also wrote Our Town.
Thornton Wilder won a Pulitzer Prize for his play, The Skin of Our Teeth, which details the lives of this family. Members of this family include George and Maggie who live with their children in the New Jersey town of Excelsior.
Our Town
Thornton Wilder
Antrobus [accept George Antrobus or Maggie Antrobus] &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This group arrives at the Commander’s house in a black van, and the gardener and chauffeur Nick reveals that they are members of the group Mayday. For ten points each:
Identify this police force in the fictional theocracy of Gilead. Ofglen hangs herself when she sees this group come.
Gilead is the government in this work, in which the main character Offred is sent to the Red Center to train for the Commander as the title role.
This Canadian author wrote about Iris Chase and her sister Laura in The Blind Assassin, in addition to writing The Handmaid’s Tale.
the Eyes of God
The Handmaid’s Tale
Margaret Atwood &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: At the end of this novel, Mathilde de la Mole demands to see the protagonist’s severed head so she may kiss it. For ten points each:
Although he did not kill her, Julien Sorel is sentenced to death for shooting Madame de Renal in this 1830 novel.
The Red and the Black is the best known work by this 19th century French author.
In this other work by Stendhal, the young aristocrat Fabrizio del Dongo serves for Napoleon at Waterloo, falls in love with Clelia Conti when he returns to Parma, and eventually retires to a monastery.
The Red and the Black [accept Le Rouge et la Noir]
Stendhal [accept Marie-Henri Beyle]
The Charterhouse of Parma &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This novel begins by stating that “for a man of his age, fifty-two, divorced, he has, to his mind, solved the problem of sex rather well.” For ten points each:
Name this novel in which David Lurie goes to live with his lesbian daughter after being fired as a teacher for having an affair with one of his students.
Disgrace was written by this South African author who described a magistrate’s sympathy with the title native people in his Waiting for the Barbarians.
This other work by Coetzee details the title character’s journey to Prince Albert. Near the end of this work, the title character returns to a apartment in the city he had escaped from at the beginning, Cape Town.
Disgrace
John Maxwell Coetzee
Life &amp; Times of Michael K. &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Remi Boncoeur helps one character in this novel get a job as a security guard, but that character is eventually fired. For ten points each:
Name this novel from the Beat movement that follows the adventures of Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty.
On The Road is the most famous work of this American author.
Kerouac modeled the Buddhist Hitchhiker Ray Smith off of himself, who appears in this novel in which climbs Matterhorn Peak with his friend Japhy Ryder, who advises him to work as a fire lookout on Desolation Peak.
On The Road
Jack Kerouac
The Dharma Bums &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: At the beginning of this work, a character who “maded teh Skiez an da Erfs n stuffs” “rode invisible bike over teh waterz.” For ten points each:
Name this wiki-based work, started by Martin Grondin, which attempts to translate a certain religious text into a feline setting. Near the start of this work, Adam and Eve are expelled from the Garden of Eden by the Ceiling Cat.
This famous lolcat, whose actual name is Tarder Sauce, became famous due to the namesake emotion that appears in her face. Memes produced of this cat include those such as “I had fun once...it was awful.”
This other internet cat is actually an animated cat with a Pop-Tart body, which leaves a rainbow trail behind it as it flies through space. The song that accompanies this cat repeats its own name several times.
LOLCat Bible Translation Project
Grumpy Cat
Nyan Cat &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: A character in this work deduces that the name of a horse must be Brunellus. For ten points each:
Name this book, narrated by Adso, which sees William of Baskerville investigate a series of murders taking place Benedictine monastery.
This Italian author of The Name of the Rose also described a ‘Plan’ concocted by Belbo, Diotallevi, and Casaubon in Foucault’s Pendulum.
As it turns out, the deaths were taking place because the pages of this book had been poisoned. Jorge dies after trying to eat this book and burn down the aedificium.
The Name of the Rose
Umberto Eco
The second book of Aristotle’s Poetics [or Aristotle’s book on Comedy] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This character can somersault across clouds and take on 72 unique forms. For ten points each:
Name this “Monkey King” who wields a massive golden staff; he is prominent in many Chinese tales and legends.
Sun Wukong features as a main character in this ancient novel, one of China’s Four Great Classics, in which he joins the monk Xuanzang and attempts to obtain Buddhist works.
This character from Journey to the West travels with Sandy to help Tripitaka obtain sutras. His primary weapon is a nine-toothed rake and he was reincarnated as an animal after sexually harassing Chang’e.
Sun Wukong
Journey to the West [or Xi You Ji]
Pigsy [or Zhu Bajie] &lt;AG+RP&gt;
Bonus: Every January 25th, a supper is held in honor of this man, and many of his poems are read. For ten points each:
Name this Scottish poet of works like “To a Mouse” and “To a Louse”. He described a dance of witches, warlocks, and the Devil in a haunted church in his “Tam o’ Shanter”.
This poem by Robert Burns describes how his love is like the title object, “that’s newly sprung in June.”
This other Burns poem is frequently sung on New Year’s Eve. It asks “should auld acquaintance be forgot/and never brought to mind?”
Robert Burns
A Red, Red, Rose [accept “My Love is Like a Red, Red, Rose”]
“Auld Lang Syne” &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This character runs away after seeing a play in which a king is killed when poison is poured in his ear. For ten points each:
Name this character who kills his brother by pouring poison in his ear. He later convinces Laertes to help him try to kill his nephew with a poisoned sword.
This daughter of Polonius in Hamlet is told to “get thee to a nunnery.” King Claudius later recruits her brother to help him kill Hamlet after she drowns.
When talking to Hamlet, a grave digger discovers the skull of this jester. Hamlet describes this character as “a fellow of infinite jest”.
King Claudius
Ophelia
Yorick &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: In this play, one character nearly chokes another over a debate between the phrases “light the kettle” and “put on the kettle.” For ten points each:
Name this play, in which the hit-men Ben and Gus wait for a kill assignment. At the end, it is implied that Gus is the man that is to be killed.
This British author wrote The Dumb Waiter. At the beginning of another play by this author, one character denies that it is the title date, that play is The Birthday Party.
This other play by Harold Pinter describes an affair between the characters Emma and Jerry. At the beginning of this reverse-chronological work, Emma’s husband, Robert, admits that he had known about the affair for four years.
The Dumb Waiter
Harold Pinter
Betrayal &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This author’s work <em>Cyclops</em> is the only surviving satyr play. For ten points each:
Name this Greek tragedian who created Alcestis, as well a play in which Hector’s son Astyanax is thrown from the walls of Troy, The Trojan Women.
In this play by Euripides, the title sorceress uses a poisoned robe to kill Glauce and Creon and also murders her own children to inflict as much pain as possible upon her husband.
In addition to Medea, Euripides also wrote this tragedy in which Dionysus orders that Pentheus’ corpse is reassembled after Agave and the Maenads rip apart his limbs.
Euripides
Medea
The Bacchae &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The prologue to this work includes a writer, a carpenter, and an old man who discuss each other's “grotesqueness”. For ten points each:
Name this cycle of twenty-two stories centered on George Willard, named after a fictional midwestern town.
Winesburg, Ohio contains the story “The Strength of God” in which the reverend Curtis Hartman witnesses this character praying while naked. In “The Teacher”, this character becomes attracted to George, who is her student.
Winesburg, Ohio was written by this American author.
Winesburg, Ohio
Kate Swift (accept either underlined answer)
Sherwood Anderson &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This work begins with “I was the shadow of the waxwing slain.” For 10 points each:
Name this work which consists of a 999 line poem by John Shade and an analysis of it by Charles Kinbote.
This novel by the author of Pale Fire discusses the sexual relationship between Humbert Humbert and the 12-year-old Dolores Haze. Dolores eventually escapes with the playwright Clare Quilty.
Pale Fire and Lolita were both written by this Russian author .
Pale Fire
Lolita
Vladimir Nabokov &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: This character dies near the beginning of the work she appears in after accidentally drinking poison meant for her father. For ten points each:
Name this green-haired, beautiful character who is the first fiancé of Esteban Trueba.
Rosa del Valle appears in this Isabel Allende novel, which centers on the clairvoyant Clara, Esteban, and their descendants. Much of it takes place at Tres Marias, Esteban’s hacienda.
Isabel Allende is an author from this South American country, many of whose other authors come from its capital of Santiago.
Rosa Del Valle [accept Rosa the beautiful]
The House of the Spirits [or La Casa de los Espiritus]
Republic of Chile &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Everyone loves Jane Austen! Identify some of her novels, for ten points each:
In this novel, Isabella Thorpe introduces Gothic novels to the protagonist, Catherine Morland, who particularly loves The Mysteries of Udolpho.
In this Jane Austen novel, Mr. Bingley falls in love with Jane, and Mr. Darcy marries the protagonist, Elizabeth Bennet.
Marianne Dashwood and her sister Elinor represent the title contrasting personalities of this novel by Jane Austen.
Northanger Abbey
Pride and Prejudice
Sense and Sensibility &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The narrator of this novel visits the island of Luggnagg, whose inhabitants are immortal, but are declared legally dead at age 80. For ten points each:
Name this novel about a traveller who visits islands with strange inhabitants, such as Lilliput, with half-a-foot tall residents, and the flying island of Laputa.
Gulliver’s Travels was written by this English author of Drapier’s Letters. He also wrote a satire about Peter, Martin, and Jack, who represent Saint Peter, Martin Luther, and John Calvin in his A Tale of a Tub.
In this other work by Swift, he describes in detail the benefits might obtain were the impoverished Irish to sell their children as food. He claims that children will make “a most delicious, wholesome, and nourishing food.”
Gulliver’s Travels
Jonathan Swift
“A Modest Proposal For Preventing The Children of Poor People in Ireland From Being” &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: After accidentally being a passenger when a small girl is killed with a stolen car, the protagonist of this work moves to Lycurgus to work for his uncle. For ten points each:
Name this novel in which Clyde Griffiths falls in love with and accidentally impregnates Roberta Alden only to drown her at the end to prevent her from revealing their relationship.
This American author wrote An American Tragedy, as well as a work about the country girl Caroline Meeber who moves to Chicago, Sister Carrie.
In An American Tragedy, Clyde Griffiths moves to the city of Lycurgus in this American state. This state is also the location of an object described in “The New Colossus,” a poem about the Statue of Liberty.
An American Tragedy
Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser
New York [accept New York City or Lycurgus, New York] &lt;MS+AG&gt;
Bonus: The protagonist of this work strikes another character after he criticizes the singing in an opera. For ten points each:
Name this dystopian novel which follows the mayhem caused by Alex and his “droogs.”
In A Clockwork Orange, Dr. Brodsky and Dr. Branom subject Alex to this punishment after he kills another cellmate. This punishment involves conditioning Alex against violence by making him nauseous while he is shown violent images.
A Clockwork Orange was written by this English author.
A Clockwork Orange
the Ludovico Technique
Anthony Burgess &lt;AG&gt;
Bonus: This poem notes how a horse “scratches its innocent behind on a tree.” For ten points each:
Name this poem, whose speaker describes Brueghel’s “The Fall of Icarus” in the second stanza. It notes that for a ploughman, the fall “was not an important failure”.
Musee des Beaux Arts was written by this poet. The speaker of another poem by him lamented that a friend was “my North, my South, my East and West” in “Funeral Blues”.
This other Auden poem notes that we must “love one another or die”. It begins with the speaker saying “I sit in one of the dives/On Fifty-second Street/Uncertain and Afraid”.
Musee des Beaux Arts [or Museum of Fine Arts]
Wystan Hugh. Auden
September 1, 1939 &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: The old valet Firs is left alone in a locked room at the end of this play. For ten points each:
Name that play. After purchasing the title estate of this play from Madame Ranevskaya, the merchant Lopakhin chops down all the trees to construct cottages.
The Cherry Orchard is a play by this Russian author. In the concept of his namesake “gun”, this author argues that every literary object must serve a purpose or significance at some point in the story it appears in.
In this other Chekhov play, Ivan Voynitsky attempts to commit suicide with morphine after failing to shoot Professor Serebryakov.
The Cherry Orchard
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
Uncle Vanya &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: The title of this work comes from the noise emitted when one of the characters kills himself by sticking a cucumber in his anus. For ten points each:
Name this book, much of which centers around Takashi’s rebellion against a Korean supermarket owner known as “the Emperor.”
This Japanese author of The Silent Cry also wrote about a man’s mentally disabled son in the semi-autobiographical A Personal Matter.
This first novel written by Oe describes the survival of a group of boys and one girl abandoned in a plague-stricken village.
The Silent Cry [accept Man’en Gannen no Futtoboru or Football in the First Year of Man’en]
Kenzaburo Oe
Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids [accept Pluck the Bud and Destroy the Offspring] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Towards the end of this play, Poncia cries out after discovering that Adela has hanged herself because she believed her love interest Pepe el Romano was shot. For ten points each:
Name that play, which is included in its author’s Rural Trilogy.
This author wrote The House of Bernarda Alba. Other works in his Rural Trilogy include Yerma and a play in which Leonardo and the Bridegroom kill each other over the love of the Bride, Blood Wedding.
Federico Garcia Lorca is an iconic author from this European nation. Lope de Vega was a key figure in the “Golden Age” of this Iberian country.
The House of Bernarda Alba
Federico Garcia Lorca
Spain &lt;RP&gt;
Bonus: This poem notes that poverty “numbs the soul with icy hand / and slow-consuming Age.” For ten points each:
Name this poem that describes “distant spires” and “antique towers” that crown the title institution, which lies along the Thames. It ends by noting “where ignorance is bliss/’tis folly to be wise.”
This English author of “Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College” wrote about a subject that “mewed to every watery god/some speedy aid to send” in “Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Fishes.”
This other Gray poem which begins “the curfew tolls the knell of parting day.” It also famously states that “the paths of glory lead but to the grave.”
“Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College”
Thomas Gray
Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard [or Stanzas Wrote in a Country Church-Yard] &lt;MS&gt;
Bonus: Name some things about a certain type of poem, for ten points each:
Name this type of Japanese poem which consists of three phrases, having 5, 7, and 5 syllables each. The topics they can be about are called kigo, most of which are about nature.
This poet was most famous for his haikus, including the one “an ancient pond/a frog jumps in/the splash of water.”
Basho is also well known for this diary written in prose and poetry, which he wrote while he traveled to Oku, following the path that the poet Saigyo took so he could “renew his own art.”
Haiku
Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Chuemon Munefusa]
The Narrow Road to the Deep North [or The Narrow Road to the Interior, or Oku no Hosomichi] &lt;MS&gt;
For 10 points each—give these titles derived from nursery rhymes:
Randle McMurphy and Nurse Ratched are in this Ken Kesey work set at a psychiatric hospital. The title completes the rhyme "Three geese in a flock / One flew East / One flew West."
This Robert Penn Warren novel is about the politician Willie Stark, and has a title referring to Humpty Dumpty characters.
This first James Patterson book to feature Alex Cross includes a murderer with a split personality. Its title is a line from "Little Miss Muffet".
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
All the King's Men
Along Came a Spider
The earliest drama to depict this character is the 17<sup>th</sup> century play <em>The Trickster of Seville and the Stone Guest</em>. For 10 points each—
Name this legendary Spanish figure who lives with his mother Donna Inez in a Lord Byron poem.
Don Juan was a subject of a 1665 play by this French dramatist whose other works include Tartuffe and The Imaginary Invalid.
Erik works on a musical composition called Don Juan Triumphant in this Gaston Leroux [luh-RUE] novel. This book is titled for Erik, who lives in the shadows under a Paris performance house and abducts the singer Christine Daaé [DIE-ay].
Don Juan (accept Don Giovanni)
Moliere or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin
The Phantom of the Opera or Le Fantôme de l'Opéra
For 10 points—give these answers related to transgender pen names:
This author was told "you may use the pseudonym of A.M. Barnard or any other man's name if you will" by her publisher. Her works include Jo's Boys and Little Women.
Mary Anne Evans was the birth name of this author of Adam Bede, Middlemarch, and Silas Marner.
Karen Blixen used the name Isak Dinesen for this book describing her time on a Kenyan coffee plantation.
Louis May Alcott
George Eliot
Out of Africa
For 10 points each—name these works on the American Library Association's list of frequently banned books:
Accused of being occultist, this Stephenie Meyer series sees Bella Swan meeting vampires and werewolves.
References to homosexuality and drug use are cited when challenging this Stephen Chbosky book about a Pittsburgh teenager named Charlie who stands at the side during social events.
Vulgar passages are claimed by opponents of this Jonathan Safran Foer book in which Oskar Schell searches New York City for a message from his deceased father.
Twilight
The Perks of Being a Wallflower
Extremely Loud &amp; Incredibly Close
For 10 points each—name these Man Booker Prize winners:
This Yann Martel novel is about a shipwreck survivor who travels the ocean with a tiger. The title boy’s name is French for a swimming pool but that gets shortened.
Film adaptation title acceptable. Oskar saves Polish Jews from the Nazis in this Thomas Keneally work.
Also set during World War II, a Hungarian assumed to be from the U.K. appears in this Michael Ondaatje [on-DART-she] novel. The main character is badly burned and is cared for by Hana, a Canadian nurse.
Life of Pi
Schindler's Ark or Schindler's List
The English Patient
One of these two men is credited with a linguistics law explaining how Indo-European consonants developed in early Germanic languages. For 10 points each—
Give these siblings who published Children's and Household Tales and the collection Old German Forests.
This Grimm character saves a miller's daughter from execution but loses his claim on her firstborn child when the daughter learns this dwarf's name.
The Pied Piper of Hamelin was a subject of both the Brothers Grimm and this English poet. His other works include "Fra Lippo Lippi" and "My Last Duchess".
The Brothers Grimm or Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm
Rumpelstiltskin
Robert Browning
This author described Senator Buzz Windrip, who wins a presidential election by playing on people’s fear of foreigners and promising economic reform in the novel <em>It Can’t Happen Here</em>. For 10 points each—
Name this author of Elmer Gantry and Arrowsmith.
Lewis’s best known work may be this 1922 novel about a successful real estate agent whose first name is George. At the end of the work his son Ted hastily marries Eunice.
Carol Kennicott has trouble adapting to the small town of Gopher Prairie, Minnesota in this Lewis novel named for an important road in many cities.
Sinclair Lewis
Babbitt
Main Street
A key moment in this novel is when Gene Forrester shakes a tree branch, which causes Finny to fall and break a leg. For 10 points each—
Name this John Knowles work set at the Devon prep school.
“A Separate Peace” was a proposed, but not used title for this novel in which Frederick Henry falls in love with Catherine Barkley during the World War I Italian campaign.
A Farewell to Arms is by what American author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea?
A Separate Peace
A Farewell to Arms
Ernest Hemingway
The 2015 novel <em>Go Set a Watchman</em> shares characters with this work. For 10 points each—
Name this novel in which Atticus Finch defends Tom Robinson after Tom is accused of rape.
To Kill a Mockingbird is by what author who published the essay "When Children Discover America" for McCall's magazine?
Harper Lee helped Truman Capote interview Kansas residents for this nonfiction novel about the murder of Herbert Clutter and his family.
To Kill a Mockingbird
Harper Lee
In Cold Blood
In a Basho haiku, the first one of these is falling on the half-finished bridge. For 10 points each—
Name this substance that Edna St. Vincent Millay described as "Infrequent flakes hexagonal" in a poem about a falling storm.
"And miles to go before I sleep" is the last line of this Robert Frost poem about pausing a horse to admire a winter scene.
"A Winter Idyl" is the subtitle of this John Greenleaf Whittier poem about a New England family exchanging stories by the hearth as a blizzard keeps them inside.
snow (accept snowflakes, snowfall, et cetera; accept First Snow or The Snow Storm)
Stopping By Woods On A Snowy Evening
Snow-Bound
The United Kingdom chose this author for its new 10-pound banknote. For 10 points each—
Name this author of Emma, Northanger Abbey, and Persuasion.
Seth Grahame-Smith added zombies to this Austen work. The two title concepts come from Elizabeth Bennet's first impressions and Fitzwilliam Darcy's opinion of his own importance.
Thomas Bertram owns the title estate where Fanny Price is sent in this other Austen work.
Jane Austen
Pride and Prejudice (accept Pride and Prejudice and Zombies)
Mansfield Park
For 10 points each—name these Lewis Carroll characters:
This figure is wearing a headpiece stating “In this style 10/6.” He is having a tea party with the March Hare and uses the Dormouse as a cushion.
To get dry, this character has others run a Caucus race where everyone picks their own pattern and everyone wins. Historically these flightless creatures were found on Mauritius [mar-RISH-sis].
An evolutionary hypothesis named for this character states organisms must constantly adapt to survive. This figure tells Alice she must advance to the eighth square for a promotion.
The (Mad) Hatter
The Dodo (Bird)
The Red Queen (do not accept “The Queen of Hearts” as that is a different character)
For 10 points each—give these answers related to Henry David Thoreau:
Thoreau was part of this philosophical movement that distrusted political and religious institutions. It stressed the good inherent in nature and the individual.
Thoreau’s essay Civil Disobedience was written in part to his opposition to the 1840s war between the United States and what neighbor?
Thoreau built a cabin by this body of water because he wanted “to live deliberately” and published his experience in 1854. It is near Concord, Massachusetts.
transcendentalism (accept word forms)
México or Estados Unidos Mexicanos or United Mexican States
Walden Pond
Pieter Bruegel the Elder depicted this structure in a 1563 painting. For 10 points each—
Name this biblical structure built tall enough to reach the heavens. It went unfinished as God caused its builders to speak different languages.
The Library of Babel, which contains all possible 410-page books, appears in a short story of this Argentine author. His other works include "The Garden of Forking Paths" and Book of Imaginary Beings.
The Babel fish, which allows one to understand any language of any alien creature, appears in this Douglas Adams series. The series title comes from a book all space travelers should read.
Tower of Babel
Jorge Luis Borges
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (prompt on partial answers)
For 10 points each—name these works featuring horses:
Rocinante [RAH-see-NON-tay] is the horse of this figure created by Miguel de Cervantes. This title man of La Mancha attacks windmills he believes to be giants.
Farmer Grey is the first owner of a dark-haired horse who pulls London cabs in this Anna Sewell novel.
This Peter Shaffer play features Alan Strang, a boy with a pathological fascination with horses. A controversial 2007 West End production had a teenage Daniel Radcliffe playing Alan and appearing nude on stage.
Don Quixote or The history of the valorous and wittie Knight-Errant Don-Quixote of the Mancha or El ingenioso hidalgo don Quixote de la Mancha
Black Beauty
Equus
This character appeared in the 2009 posthumous book <em>The Blythes are Quoted</em>. For 10 points each—
Name this orphan who goes to live with Marilla and Matthew Cuthbert on their farm at Green Gables.
The Anne of Green Gables series is by what Canadian author who also wrote Jane of Lantern Hill?
This character becomes a doctor and marries Anne in the series. He is the father of Jem, Shirley, and Rilla.
Anne Shirley (accept either underlined name; accept Anne of Green Gables)
L(ucy) M(aud) Montgomery
Gilbert Blythe (prompt on "Blythe")
For 10 points each—name these John Steinbeck works:
The Joad family leaves their failing Oklahoma farm and travels to California looking for work in this novel.
This work ends with George shooting Lennie due to Lennie’s accidental murder. Its title is from a Robert Burns poetry line that begins “The best-laid schemes”.
Sweet Thursday is a sequel to this work whose title refers to a group of Monterey sardine factories. Its characters include Lee Chong and Dora Flood.
The Grapes of Wrath
Of Mice and Men
Cannery Row
For 10 points each—name these authors whose works were adapted to musicals:
Matilda the Musical is based on a work by this author of James and the Giant Peach and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
The Hunchback of Notre-Dame is by this novelist who described the 1832 June Rebellion in Les Misérables.
Adapted into the musical Hello, Dolly!, The Merchant of Yonkers and The Matchmaker are versions of the same material by this man. His best known drama is probably Our Town.
Roald Dahl
Victor Hugo
Thornton Wilder
For 10 points each—name these H.G. Wells works:
In this book, an English inventor builds the title device to go to the year 802,701 where he meets the Eloi and Morlocks.
Alien tripods emit poisonous black smoke in this tale. At its end, the Martians succumb to microbes their immune systems could not handle.
This novel is narrated by Edward Prendick, a shipwrecked man who encounters a scientist creating monstrous hybrids by dissecting animals and men.
The Time Machine
The War of the Worlds
The Island of Doctor Moreau
The title characters of this work are Athos, Porthos, and Aramis. For 10 points each—
Name this 1844 novel in which Cardinal Richelieu's guards try to arrest characters for illegal dueling.
The Three Musketeers is by this author who continued the story in Twenty Years After.
In this Dumas novel, Edmond Dantès learns about a hidden treasure from Abbé Faria while in prison and assumes the persona of a rich man to exact revenge on his enemies.
The Three Musketeers or Les Trois Mousquetaires
Alexandre Dumas
The Count of Monte Cristo or Le Comte de Monte-Cristo
For 10 points each—give these answers related to T.S. Eliot works:
The distress of the Fisher King’s countryside is a metaphor for a destroyed Europe in this T.S. Eliot poem titled for a desolate place.
Mr. Mistoffelees [mih-STOF-fel-leez], Macavity, and Old Deuteronomy are said to be “practical” examples of these creatures in an Eliot work. These animals sang the song “Memory” in a broadway adaptation.
Figurative straw dummies appear in this poem whose last stanza states “This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but a whimper.”
The Waste Land
cats (accept: Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats)
The Hollow Men
For 10 points each—name these Kurt Vonnegut works:
Billy Pilgrim survives the 1945 destruction of Dresden as a German prisoner in this work titled for the animal meat facility that protects the POWs.
The fake religion Bokononism and the dangerous substance Ice-9 appear in this work that can be read as a nuclear war allegory. The title comes from a game played with strings.
Dwayne goes on a rampage after reading Kilgore Trout’s novel about free will in this work. Vonnegut borrowed a Wheaties motto for this work’s title, but explained the title meal is actually a dry martini.
Slaughterhouse-Five
Cat’s Cradle
Breakfast of Champions
For 10 points each—name these Rudyard Kipling works:
Toomai of the Elephants and Kaa's Hunting are stories in this collection whose main character is the boy Mowgli.
This collection includes How the Camel Got His Hump and The Crab That Played with the Sea. Its title came from Kipling’s daughter’s tendency to correct stories not repeated "exactly right".
An English soldier describes a company water-bearer in this Kipling poem. The title boy saves the soldier but is shot and dies.
The Jungle Book
Just So Stories for Little Children
Gunga Din (the pronunciation "GUN-gah DEEN" is preferred, but accept reasonable pronunciations)
For 10 points—give these answers related to seeing the invisible in popular literature:
In this Ransom Riggs work, Jacob Portman has the ability to see hollowgasts invisible to other orphans at the title structure. Asa Butterfield starred in the 2016 film adaptation.
Anton Yelchin portrayed this “weird” character in a 2013 film based on a Dean Koontz series. He is able to see Bodachs [BO-daks] and other paranormal spirits.
In the Harry Potter series, this is the act a person must experience to gain the ability to see Thestrals. Harry first sees Thestrals when they pull Hogwarts carriages near the start of volume five.
Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children
Odd Thomas
see a person die (accept equivalent responses) [On the Pottermore website, J. K. Rowling states “Being able to see Thestrals is a sign that the beholder has witnessed death, and gained an emotional understanding of what death means.”]
For 10 points each--name these characters in Mark Twain works:
This figure and the escaped slave Jim float on the Mississippi together. When Jim is captured and held on the Phelps farm, this boy is mistaken for his friend Tom Sawyer.
Tom takes this girl he loves to a cave, where they become trapped for a few days. Her father is a judge.
In The Prince and the Pauper, the prince is the future King Edward VI [“the sixth”] while the lookalike Pauper is this boy.
Huckleberry Finn (accept either underlined name for all parts)
Becky Thatcher
Tom Canty
For 10 points each—give these answers about filmed slave narratives:
An astounding 85% of homes with televisions saw at least part of the 1977 adaptation of this Alex Haley novel centered on the character Kunta Kinte [KIN-tay]. The 2016 History Channel remake was not as popular.
Solomon Northup wrote this memoir of the dozen years he worked on Louisiana plantations.
Oprah Winfrey starred in a 1987 film based on this author’s Beloved. Her other writings include Song of Solomon and The Bluest Eye.
Roots
Twelve Years a Slave
Toni Morrison (or Chloe Ardelia Wofford)
For 10 points each—name these works that involve sacrifice:
Katniss Everdeen participates in a title competition to the death in this Suzanne Collins work, whose sequels are Catching Fire and Mockingjay.
In this Shirley Jackson short story about a mob mentality or adherence to tradition, Tessie Hutchinson is stoned to death by her townspeople.
In this book of the Bible, Jephthah defeats the Ammonites but then must sacrifice his daughter. This book also includes the stories of Ehud, Deborah, and Gideon.
The Hunger Games
The Lottery
Book of Judges
This author’s time in the Imperial Police inspired his novel <em>Burmese Days</em>. For 10 points each—
Name this British author whose character Gordon Comstock attempts to live a life not dependent on money in this writer’s novel Keep the Aspidistra Flying.
The adjective Orwellian usually means a totalitarian society in which Big Brother watches, a reference to this novel about Winston Smith.
“All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others” is a phrase used in this Orwell novella in which the pigs Napoleon and Snowball vie for power.
George Orwell or Eric Arthur Blair
Nineteen Eighty-Four
Animal Farm
Count Rostov dies in this novel’s epilogue. For 10 points each—
Name this Russian novel whose characters include Pierre Bezukhov and Anna Pavlovna Scherer. It is titled for periods of conflict and tranquility in the early 19th century.
War and Peace is by what Russian author of the novella The Death of Ivan Ilyich?
Tolstoy also wrote a novel about this character who is married to Alexei but has an affair with Count Vronsky. After a fight with Vronsky she throws herself under a train.
War and Peace or Voyná i mir
Leo Tolstoy
Anna Karenina (accept either underlined name)
For 10 points each—name these Edgar Allan Poe works:
This poem which begins “Once upon a midnight dreary” tells of a narrator grieving for a lost love visited by a bird who is quoted as saying “nevermore.”
A narrator visits a friend named Roderick who buries his ill sister. The short story ends with the family’s home sinking into the ground.
In this story William Legrand is bitten by a shiny insect. Deciphering a nearby parchment leads the characters to a buried treasure.
The Raven
The Fall of the House of Usher
The Gold-Bug
Characters in this work include Isabella Linton and Frances Earnshaw. For 10 points each—
Name this British novel that begins when Lockwood rents a house called Thrushcross Grange and asks his housekeeper Nelly Dean to explain the history of the nearby people.
Wuthering Heights is authored by a member of this family whose writers included Charlotte and Emily.
This sibling of Charlotte and Emily wrote the novels Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall.
Wuthering Heights
Brontë [the work is by Emily]
Anne Brontë
For 10 points each—name these Shakespearean plays:
This story about the feuding Montague and Capulet houses ends with the deaths of its two young title figures.
Prospero conjures up the title storm in this work to force his brother Antonio onto an island. In its end Prospero's daughter Miranda is betrothed to Ferdinand.
In this play the King Leontes thinks his wife has had an affair and banishes the infant Perdita. The servant Antigonus in this play has second thoughts about the exile, but before he can save the child he is chased from the stage, "pursued by a bear."
Romeo and Juliet
The Tempest
The Winter's Tale
Dr Seuss employed this technique in the <em>ABC Book</em> when he wrote “Many mumbling mice are making midnight music in the moonlight.” For 10 points each --
Give this term for repeating the sound at the beginning of a series of words.
This figure with an alliterative name is suggested by Gandalf as a burglar for Thorin Oakenshield’s quest to reclaim the Lonely Mountain in “The Hobbit”.
In a different book, this girl with an alliterative name is the sister of Sandy and Dennys. She travels to the planet Camazotz and uses love to separate Charles Wallace from the evil brain IT.
alliteration
Bilbo Baggins (accept either underlined name)
(Margaret) Meg Murry O'Keefe (accept any underlined name) [This is from A Wrinkle in Time]
Island guests are killed in this author's <em>And Then There Were None</em>. For 10 points each—
Name this author whose amateur detective Jane Marple appears in The Murder at the Vicarage and A Caribbean Mystery.
Christie's best known work may be the murder she set on this train traveling from Istanbul to Paris.
Mollie Ralston and Christopher Wren are characters in this Christie play that has been performed over 26,000 times.
Agatha Christie (accept Mary Westmacott, a pen name)
(Murder on the) Orient Express
The Mousetrap
In the third part of this work Amir adopts the boy Sohrab. For 10 points each—
Name this Khaled Hosseini novel titled for a boy who retrieves toys defeated in aerial combat.
The beginning of The Kite Runner is set in what Asian country whose cities include Kandahar and Kabul?
The character Hassan is killed trying to prevent this group from confiscating a house. This group enforced Islamic law when they controlled Afghanistan in the late 1990s.
The Kite Runner
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Taliban (prompt on "Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan")
For 10 points each--give these works with a word in common:
In this Aesop fable a rodent wakes a fearsome predator, but is let go unharmed. When the larger beast is captured by hunters, the rodent enables an escape.
The Pevensie children appear in this first published part of The Chronicles of Narnia.
This James Goldman play concerns the affairs of the English court of Henry II [“the second”] in 1183.
The Lion and the Mouse
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe
The Lion in Winter
For 10 points each—give these answers related to avian poetry subjects:
Paul Laurence Dunbar used this adjective to describe a non-free bird in his poem “Sympathy”. Maya Angelou used the same text to title an autobiography.
Wallace Stevens had “Thirteen Way of Looking at” one of these dark creatures.
“Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!” is the first line of a Percy Shelley work “to” one of these feathered members of the genus Alauda.
(I know why the) caged (bird sings)
(Thirteen Ways of Looking at a) Blackbird
(To a) Skylark (do not accept “lark” as this is a title)
Examples of these words include madam, racecar, and noon. For 10 points each—
Give this term for a word spelled the same way forwards and backwards.
The palindromic word tattarrattat [tat-tar-rat-tat], meaning a knock on the door, was coined by James Joyce for this novel about Leopold Bloom.
Some claim Hamlet’s original text included “emit no evil, live on time”. That palindrome was part of the advice speech this father gives to his son Laertes.
palindrome (accept word forms)
Ulysses
Polonius
Philip Glass based an opera on this author's <em>In the Penal Colony</em>. For 10 points each—
Name this author who wrote about Josef K getting arrested for an unknown crime in The Trial.
Kafka's best known work is this novella in which Gregor Samsa wakes up to discover he has turned into a large insect. This work's title refers to a process, such as when dragonflies change from nymph to adult.
Glass’s opera isn’t the only adaptation; The film Franz Kafka's It's a Wonderful Life was written by this Scottish man who will give up the role of The Doctor on Doctor Who after the 2017 Christmas special.
Franz Kafka
The Metamorphosis or Die Verwandlung
Peter Capaldi
This word comes from the French philosopher Michel de Montaigne, who described his writings as efforts to put thoughts on paper. For 10 points each—
The French verb meaning "to try" gives us what term for academic writing exercises, such as the paragraphs that answer a free response?
Essay on Criticism and Essay on Man were works by what Englishman who also authored The Rape of the Lock?
Writing with Intent is an essay collection by the Canadian author Margaret Atwood, who also wrote this work in which Offred is among a class of fertile women forced to give birth.
essay [the verb is essayer]
Alexander Pope
The Handmaid's Tale
Towards the end of this novel Augustus Waters dies of cancer. For 10 points each—
Name this novel in which Hazel Grace Lancaster enjoys An Imperial Affliction, an unfinished work by Peter Van Houten.
The Fault in Our Stars is by this author whose other works include Looking for Alaska and An Abundance of Katherines.
The title is from the line "The fault, dear Brutus is not in our stars." That dialogue is from this Shakespearean play in which the main character dies on the Ides of March.
The Fault in Our Stars
John Green
The Tragedy of Julius Caesar
For 10 points each—give these legendary creatures:
Folklore says this creature is the cursed 13th child of Mother Leeds. It lives in the Pine Barrens of New Jersey and provides the name of a hockey team.
A parasite causing scabies is a proposed origin of this creature whose legend comes from Puerto Rico. Its Spanish name means "goat sucker" as it purportedly drains livestock of their blood.
In modern Hebrew this word means a dumb or helpless creature. In folklore these beings were fashioned from clay, and the 16th century Rabbi Loew created one to defend the Prague Ghetto.
(New) Jersey Devil
chupacabra
golem
For 10 points—name these works with gangs:
Characters in this S.E. Hinton work include Ponyboy Curtis and Cherry Valance. It depicts the tensions between the Greaser and Socials [SHO-shiz] gangs.
Gang friends are known as "droogs" in this novel. The protagonist Alex undergoes the Ludovico Technique after committing murder in this Anthony Burgess work.
The Vigils are a secret gang led by Archie Costello in this Robert Cormier novel. Jerry Renault's refusal to sell candy in it work leads to an assembly where Jerry gets punched.
The Outsiders
A Clockwork Orange
The Chocolate War
For 10 points each—give these repetitive titles:
Gregory Maguire set Lucrezia Borgia as the villain in this retelling of Snow White. This book’s two-word title begins a phrase addressed to an object “on the wall”.
In this William Faulkner novel, Thomas Sutpen moves to Mississippi to start a plantation. He dreams of building a lineage but casts aside women and children who disappoint him.
People go on with their lives after a young boy dies from buzz saw injuries in this Robert Frost poem.
Mirror, Mirror
Absalom, Absalom!
Out, Out
During the Okeechobee hurricane in this novel, Tea Cake is bitten by a rabid dog. For 10 points each—
Name this Zora Neale Hurston work with the protagonist Janie Crawford.
Their Eyes Were Watching God is set in this U.S. state. Janie and Tea Cake go to Jacksonville to marry and live in the Everglades.
Also set in Florida is this Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings work. It sees Jody Baxter adopt a fawn, which Jody ends up killing because the deer is eating the family’s food.
Their Eyes Were Watching God
Florida
The Yearling
They may not have a magician who says, “Abracadabra,” but that doesn’t mean these literary works lack in magic. For 10 points each:
The exiled sorcerer and Duke of Milan Prospero lives on an island with his daughter Miranda and captured spirit Ariel in this Shakespeare play.
A child born with a pig’s tail is devoured by ants in this Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel about the Buendia family who lives in the fictional town of Macondo.
Shiva “of the Knees” and “Parvati-the-witch” are two of the title group of gifted young adults in this Salman Rushdie novel about the independence and partition of India.
The Tempest
One Hundred Years of Solitude
Midnight’s Children
This collection begins in the Tabard Inn, as the guests prepare for a pilgrimage. For 10 points each:
Name this collection of short stories that includes the “Knight’s Tale” and the “Miller’s Tale.”
This author of The Canterbury Tales also wrote The Book of the Duchess and the poem “The Parlement of Foules.”
This author shares his name with the saint to whose grave the characters of The Canterbury Tales are traveling to. This author wrote the plays Molloy and Waiting for Godot.
The Canterbury Tales
Geoffrey Chaucer
Samuel Beckett
This author, whose real name was Eric Blair, supposedly chose his pen name because of his love for a river in Suffolk. For 10 points each:
Name this English author who wrote about Winston Smith living under the tyranny of Big Brother in 1984.
George Orwell also wrote this novel that serves as an allegory for communism and features the horse Boxer and pig Snowball.
Before becoming an author, Orwell worked as a police officer in this then-British colony. His time in this colony inspired his essays “A Hanging” and “Shooting an Elephant.”
George Orwell
Animal Farm
Burma [accept Myanmar]
In this play, a character is arrested for criticizing Oronte’s poem. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Alceste pines for the love of Celimene. At the end of this play, Eliante and Philinte attempt to stop Alceste from running away.
This author and philosopher wrote The Misanthrope. He also wrote about the title character’s manipulations of Orgon in Tartuffe.
Moliere wrote his works primarily in this language. Other writers in this language include Stendhal and George Sand.
The Misanthrope, or the Cantankerous Lover [accept Le Misanthrope ou l'Atrabilaire amoureux]
Moliere [accept Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]
French
Poetry in the twentieth century was largely focused on empowerment. Name some female poets from this time period. For 10 points each:
This author of The Third Life of Grange Copeland also wrote the critically-acclaimed novel The Color Purple.
This author describes her own struggles with her homosexuality in her novel The Black Unicorn and her ultimately fatal battle with cancer in her Cancer Journals.
Perhaps the most well-known female poet of her time, this woman is the author of The Heart of a Woman and I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Alice Walker
Audre Lorde
Maya Angelou
Analyses of the human psyche, supernatural forces, tragic endings, and fatalistic humor - all of these can be found in the works of this short story author who died tragically at age thirty-five. For 10 points each:
This author wrote about three varying accounts of the murder of a samurai in “In a Grove” and about the low-ranking official Goi in “Yam Gruel,” in addition to writing “Rashomon.”
The Akutagawa Prize is a literary award given to new writers from this island country, which is also the home nation of Kenzaburo Oe.
This Japanese-born British novelist author of The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go recently published a book about collective amnesia caused by a mist in The Buried Giant.
Ryunosuke Akutagawa [accept in either order]
Japan
Kazuo Ishiguro [accept in either order]
In one story written by this author, the title character encounters mysterious bearded men while hiking in the Catskills. For 10 points each:
Name this early American author of “Rip Van Winkle,” in which the title character sleeps for twenty years and misses the American Revolution.
In Irving’s other short story, “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow,” this protagonist, a Connecticut schoolteacher, vies for the love of Katrina Van Tassel, but is killed by the Headless Horseman.
Both stories appeared in this collection of Washington Irving works, which was written under a pseudonym. This collection became one of the first American works to achieve success in Europe.
Washington Irving
Ichabod Crane [accept either]
The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon
This epic poem is the masterpiece of Derek Walcott. For 10 points,
Name this work that is a modern reinterpretation of The Iliad. It is set in St. Lucia, the author’s homeland.
In Omeros, this character is not killed directly by Achille, as with his counterpart in The Iliad. Rather, he dies when he crashes his passenger van, “The Comet.”
Hector and Achille fight over this beautiful woman, mirroring how the British and French fought over St. Lucia. Her counterpart in The Iliad “launched a thousand ships” and sparked the Trojan War.
Omeros
Hector
Helen
In sleep he sang to me, in dreams he came. For 10 points each:
Name this masked title-character Christine Daae sings of in Andrew Lloyd Webber’s musical adaptation of a Gaston Leroux novel. Iconically, half his face is covered in live-adaptations.
A love triangle is formed between the Phantom, Christine, and this other man. Christine eventually becomes engaged to him, which enrages the Phantom.
Christine takes over this operatic role from Carlotta after the phantom’s mischief makes everything go wrong. Italian for “first lady,” this term denotes the female lead of a company
Phantom of the Opera [accept Erik]
Raoul
Prima Donna [prompt on partial answer]
Mr. Guppy and Mr. Boythorn are two characters in this work. For 10 points each:
Name this Charles Dickens work in which Esther Summerson moves to the house of her new guardian along with Ada Clare and Richard Carstone.
This court case concerning the fate of a large fortune is central to the plot of Bleak House.
The court case of Cooper v. Stockett appears in this American novel by Kathryn Stockett concerning discrimination against the maids of prominent white families.
Bleak House
Jarndyce v. Jarndyce
The Help
For 10 points each, answer these questions about a science fiction author.
In one novel by this author, Hari Seldon develops a new scientific subject called “psychohistory.” Identify this author of the Foundation series.
Isaac Asimov also developed three laws about these beings, the primary of which states that these beings may under no circumstances cause harm to humans. Their zeroth law extends this responsibility to protect “humanity.”
In this novel by H. G. Wells, a Victorian-English scientist and inventor create the title device that allows him to travel along a “fourth dimension.” In this novel, the protagonist encounters the ape-like Morlocks, and he saves an Eloi female named Weena from drowning.
Isaac Asimov
Robots
The Time Machine
One stanza of this poem mentions “A Book of Verses underneath the Bough” and “A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread-- and Thou.” For 10 points each:
Name this selection of ancient Persian poems originally written by Omar Khayyam that was later translated and given its title by Edward FitzGerald.
The Rubaiyat is known for these kinds of stanzas which typically have four lines and alternating rhyming schemes.
The last line of the Rubaiyat’s Quatrain XII, “O, Wilderness were Paradise enow!” inspired the title of this playwright’s play Ah, Wilderness!
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
Quatrains
Eugene O’Neill
Daisy and Tom live in East Egg in this novel. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel, in which Nick Carraway lives in West Egg next to the mysterious title character.
This author of The Great Gatsby also wrote This Side of Paradise and Tales of the Jazz Age.
This other Fitzgerald work focuses on a seventeen-year-old actress as she visits the Riviera with her mother and meets a cast of not-so-colorful characters, including Luis Campion, Mrs. Abrams, and Dick and Nicole Diver.
The Great Gatsby
F. Scott Fitzgerald
Tender is the Night
We are able to write myth questions because many traditions have been documented in written sources. For 10 points each:
Name this Latin epic of transformations by Ovid that has been plundered for plot devices by Boccaccio, Dante, Chaucer, and Shakespeare. Its author hoped to create a work that would rival The Aeneid.
Shakespeare notably took inspiration for Romeo and Juliet from the story of these two star-crossed lovers. In Ovid’s telling, one takes his own life after thinking the other was eaten by a lion. They notably communicated via a crack in a wall.
In another episode of the Metamorphoses, this woman of Lydia challenges Athena to a weaving contest. Although this woman technically wins, Athena transforms her into a spider anyway.
The Metamorphoses
Pyramus and Thisbe [in any order]
Arachne
Authors sometimes adapt and rewrite works of literature written by other people. For 10 points each:
Dominican author Jean Rhys wrote this novel, a prequel to Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte. This novel follows the life of Antoinette Cosway, who becomes the madwoman Bertha Mason.
In an absurdist retelling of Shakespeare’s Hamlet, Tom Stoppard wrote about these two title couriers attempting to make sense of the main events of Hamlet, which leads to their own executions.
This Canadian author rewrote Homer’s The Odyssey from the perspective of Odysseus’ wife in The Penelopiad. This author also wrote The Handmaid’s Tale.
Wide Sargasso Sea
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
Margaret Atwood
This author wrote that a certain work of literature was about “man at war with the hostile world, and his inevitable overthrow with Time.” For 10 points each:
Name this writer of “Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics.” This man’s translation of Beowulf was published in 2014.
Tolkien is more famous for writing this novel, the prequel to the Lord of the Rings series. In this novel, Bilbo Baggins crosses Middle-Earth in order to fight the dragon Smaug.
This book, written by Tolkien and published posthumously, details the universe of the Lord of the Rings Series. This book focuses on the First, Second, and Third Ages of Middle-Earth.
John Ronald Reuel Tolkien [accept JRR Tolkien]
The Hobbit, or There and Back Again
The Silmarillion
This author’s novel <em>No Country for Old Men</em> was adapted into a film of the same name. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about a group of scalp hunters in Blood Meridian.
The kid in Blood Meridian is born during one of these events, and it is implied that he is killed by the Judge during an event of this kind.
Cormac McCarthy also wrote this post-apocalyptic book, about the journey of a man and his son to the sea.
Cormac McCarthy
Meteor showers
The Road
Lucy Steele announces her engagement to Mr. Ferrars in this work only to discover that he is in love with one of the main characters. For 10 points each:
Identify this novel that focuses on Mrs. Dashwood and her daughters Elinor, Marianne, and Margaret.
In Sense and Sensibility, this man rescues Marianne after she twists her ankle running down the hills of Barton; this man then abandons her in favor of the wealthier Sophia Grey.
This author of Sense and Sensibility also wrote Emma and Mansfield Park.
Sense and Sensibility
John Willoughby [accept either]
Jane Austen
Weird names can be as memorable and significant as visible deformities. For 10 points each, name these works with protagonists with names a little out of the ordinary.
Ebenezer Scrooge’s name is a direct reference to his personality in this Charles Dickens’ holiday novella.
Even though he’s a pedophile obsessed with nymphets, Humbert Humbert’s name still inspires pity in readers of this Vladimir Nabokov novel.
In this Toni Morrison novel, daughters of the Dead family are named by placing a pin randomly in the Bible, resulting in Milkman’s sisters being called “First Corinthians” and “Magdalene called Lena.”
A Christmas Carol
Lolita
Song of Solomon
One of the first novels to employ this narrative form, <em>Pamela</em> by Samuel Richardson, was parodied by Henry Fielding in <em>Shamela</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this narrative format in which a book is written through a series of letters by characters within the novel. Novels which employ this narrative format include The Tenant of Wildfell Hall by Anne Bronte.
One of the most famous examples of an epistolary novel is this work by Irish author Bram Stoker. Letters in this novel are written by, among others, Jonathan Harker, Mina Murray, and Doctor Seward, as they attempt to hunt the title character.
In this epistolary novel, the title character offers advice to his nephew Wormwood on how to guide the Patient away from God, the Enemy. At the end of this C.S. Lewis novel, the Patient ascends into heaven, and Wormwood is condemned to be eaten.
Epistolary novels
Dracula
The Screwtape Letters
At one point in this play, one character is jokingly made to kiss another character’s foot. For 10 points each:
Identify this play in which the valet Jean manipulates the love of the title character. At the conclusion of this play, Jean convinces the title character to commit suicide with a razor.
Miss Julie was written by this naturalistic author. This playwright also wrote about Agnes, the daughter of a Vedic god, coming to Earth to understand the problems facing humans in A Dream Play.
Strindberg hailed from this European country, which was also the home of Astrid Lindgren, the creator of Pippi Longstocking.
Miss Julie [accept Fröken Julie]
Johan August Strindberg
Sweden
The title object of this short story was really a fake and only worth five hundred francs. For 10 points each:
Name this short story that tells of Madame Mathilde Loisel buying and subsequently losing the title object. She then spends many years paying loans to replace the lost object.
“The Necklace” is a short story by this author who also wrote “Boule de Suif” or “Ball of Fat.”
In this other Maupassant short story, the prostitute Rachel kills Wilhelm, while Urville is occupied by the Prussians.
“The Necklace” [accept “The Diamond Necklace” or “La Parure”]
Guy de Maupassant
“Mademoiselle Fifi”
This author’s first novel was <em>The Broom of the System</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about the Incandenza family in Infinite Jest.
Wallace wrote about this sport in several essays, including “A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never Do Again.” It is played at the Enfield Academy by people such as Hal and John Wayne, and Wallace wrote an article about this sport titled “Roger Federer as Religious Experience.”
Infinite Jest is classified as an eschaton novel, which is contrasted with novels of this type. Sir Thomas More wrote a work titled after such a type of society.
David Foster Wallace
Tennis
Utopian [accept word forms]
For 10 points each, name these supernatural female characters from literature.
Toni Morrison portrays this title character ambiguously as the ghost of the unnamed child Sethe murdered and as a young woman who mysteriously appears soaking wet on Sethe’s doorstep.
Mrs. Danvers is obsessed with this now-deceased title woman whose ghostly presence haunts Manderley mansion in Daphne du Maurier's thriller novel.
This title ghost in Susan Hill’s gothic novella haunts Eel Marsh House and Crythin Gifford after her illegitimate son Nathaniel dies. Her appearance is said to presage the death of a child.
Beloved
Rebecca
The Woman in Black [accept either underlined portion of Jennet Humfrye]
This author’s actual name was Mary Ann Evans. The world knew her as a man. For 10 points each:
Give the pseudonym under which Evans wrote Middlemarch, a very long book that is sub-titled as a “Study of Provincial Life.”
This title character of Eliot’s third novel was a weaver, then a miser, then a man robbed, and finally the happy and satisfied caretaker of Eppie, the one person who brings him joy.
This George Eliot novel discusses Maggie Tulliver and her relationship with her brother Tom, with whom she drowns. It also tells of Maggie’s hunchbacked friend Philip Waken and her rejected suitor Stephen Guest.
George Eliot
Silas Marner [accept either]
The Mill on the Floss
William Shakespeare wasn’t the only Elizabethan writer. For 10 points each:
This contemporary of Shakespeare was considered at the time to be the foremost tragedian. This man, who wrote Doctor Faustus, died a mysterious early death, leading some to believe he was the one who wrote Shakespeare’s plays.
The dramatist Thomas Kyd wrote this revenge play about Hieronimo avenging his dead son, Balthazar. Elements from this play are thought to have inspired parts of Hamlet.
The poet Edmund Spenser wrote this epic poem, an allegory celebrating the reign of Elizabeth I. Characters including the Redcrosse Knight and Britomart represent different Christian ideals in this work.
Christopher Marlowe
The Spanish Tragedy, or Hieronimo is Mad Again
The Faerie Queene
In one of his works, this poet writes that he lifts his head to look at the moon and lowers it to think of home. For 10 points each:
Name this Chinese poet of “Quiet Night Thought.” He also claimed, “I drink alone, for no friend is near” in “Drinking Alone by Moonlight.”
In one poem written by Li Bai, the speaker admires one of these objects at Lushan Mountain, which he compares to “the Milky Way falling from Ninth Heaven.”
Li Bai, along with his poet friend Du Fu, lived during this Chinese dynasty, which saw a flourishing of culture.
Li Bai [accept Li Po or Li Bo]
Waterfalls [accept cataracts]
Tang Dynasty
Dude Lester has his priorities straight in this novel, in which he is more interested in Bessie Rice’s truck than he is her marriage proposal. For 10 points each:
Name this Erskine Caldwell novel whose protagonist, Jeeter Lester, has a deathly fear of rats.
Tobacco Road is set several miles outside of the city of Augusta in this state that is also the setting of The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.
Also set in Georgia, this Margaret Mitchell novel focuses on Scarlett O’Hara and takes place on the plantation known as Tara.
Tobacco Road
Georgia
Gone With the Wind
Greece wasn’t just the birthplace of democracy or the Olympics; it was also the origin of some of the most famous and influential plays in history. For 10 points each:
The rules of this genre, which discusses human suffering and is the opposite of comedy, were first established by Aeschylus in plays such as the Oresteia, Seven Against Thebes, and The Libation Bearers.
One of the three Greek tragedians, Sophocles, wrote this play about the title character’s joint attempts to avenge the death of her father, Agamemnon, at the hands of her mother Clytemnestra.
If Aeschylus was the father of tragedy, this Athenian playwright was the father of comedy. He wrote several plays whose titles were derived from animals, such as The Wasps and The Birds.
Greek tragedy
Electra
Aristophanes
For 10 points each, name these literary works that discuss war.
Composed of thirteen chapters that discuss individual aspects of warfare, this treatise by Sun Tzu is still used today to formulate military, business, and legal strategies.
Kantorek persuades his students to enlist as German soldiers in this Erica Maria Remarque novel about fighting in the trenches during World War I.
In this short story about the Civil War, the rope around Peyton Farquhar's neck breaks and drops him from the bridge into the creek.
The Art of War
All Quiet on the Western Front
“An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge”
Answer these questions about the novel <em>Things Fall Apart</em>, for 10 points each.
This Nigerian author of Things Fall Apart also wrote No Longer At Ease and Arrow of God. He has been applauded for his documentation of the effects of European colonization on Africa.
This main character of Things Fall Apart is a wrestling champion who is exiled after disturbing the Week of Peace. He commits suicide at the novel’s end.
This character from Things Fall Apart is beaten by his father Okonkwo for being too much like Unoka. This character later converts to Christianity.
Chinua Achebe
Okonkwo
Nwoye [accept Isaac]
One character in this novel plays Strip Botticelli. For 10 points each:
Name this novel about Oedipa Maas’ investigations into the Californian underground. This novel ends with Oedipa purchasing a series of stamps that people from Trystero are also trying to obtain.
The Crying of Lot 49 was written by this author who also wrote V and Inherent Vice.
This other Pynchon novel ends with the landing of a V-2 rocket and focuses on Tyrone Slothrop.
The Crying of Lot 49
Thomas Pynchon
Gravity’s Rainbow
In this novel, Raymond asks the main character to write a letter to his girlfriend so that he can confront her infidelity. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the main character, Meursault, shows little remorse for killing a man on the beach.
The Stranger was written by this absurdist and existentialist author of The Plague.
At the end of this philosophical essay regarding seemingly insuperable tasks, Camus muses that the title character must be happy.
The Stranger [accept L’Étranger]
Albert Camus
The Myth of Sisyphus
Answer these questions about books by African American authors, for 10 points each.
Walter loses a ten thousand dollar life insurance check in this Lorraine Hansberry play about the Younger family’s attempts to move into a white neighborhood.
Janie Crawford marries Logan Killicks, Jody Starks, and Tea Cake, who she ends up shooting, in this Zora Neale Hurston novel.
David is left alone in Paris and meets the title character at a gay bar in this James Baldwin novel.
A Raisin in the Sun
Their Eyes Were Watching God
Giovanni’s Room
One of this man’s novels starts with the line “Call me Ishmael.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of Moby Dick and Billy Budd.
This Melville character answers every question with “I would prefer not to.” His nonchalance ultimately leads to him living in his office and dying of starvation in prison.
Bartleby touches on themes from this author's short story “A Hunger Artist.” This man also wrote novels such as The Trial. An adjective named for this author describes overly complex and illogical situations.
Herman Melville
Bartleby
Franz Kafka
This author’s final work was the experimental novel <em>Finnegan’s Wake</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Stephen Daedalus and Leopold Bloom in Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses, respectively.
A character in one story in this collection is unable to buy a gift at a bazaar after he arrives too late. This short story collection includes “The Sisters,” “Araby,” and “The Dead.”
This protagonist of “The Dead” is accused of being a “West Briton” by Miss Ivors, and his wife Gretta is reminded of her old lover Michael Furey when she hears the song “The Lass of Aughrim.”
James Joyce
Dubliners
Gabriel Conroy [accept either]
Answer these questions about everyone’s favorite detective-Sherlock Holmes. For 10 points each:
Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson are fictional characters created by this British author.
This character first appeared in the short story “A Scandal in Bohemia.” She is often considered to be Holmes’ romantic interest by fans, especially because Holmes keeps a photograph of her.
Sherlock Holmes first appeared in print in this 1887 story, whose colorful title derives from what Holmes considers to be the constant presence of murder in all aspects of life.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Irene Adler [accept either underlined portion]
A Study in Scarlet
En garde! Name these novels about dashing heroes, damsels in distress, and dangerous sword fights. For 10 points each:
The epitome of hypocrisy, Sir Brian de Bois-Guilbert promises never to love again before kidnapping Rebecca, whom he loves despite his virulent anti-Semitism in this romantic novel by Sir Walter Scott about the title Saxon knight.
Before killing Rugen in a swordfight, a character says, “You killed my father. Prepare to die,” in this fantasy romance about the loyal dreamboat Westley and his verbally abusive true love Buttercup.
The title character’s son impales himself on his father’s spear in order to strike the fatal blow to his father’s head in this Thomas Mallory work about a king who is carried back to the Isle of Avalon on a black barge after his death.
Ivanhoe
The Princess Bride
Le Morte d’Arthur [accept The Death of Arthur]
A work by this poet reads in its entirety, “The apparition of these faces in the crowd; \ Petals on a wet, black bough.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet of “In a Station of the Metro,” who was heavily inspired by East Asian poetry. This man also penned The Cantos, an epic poem in one hundred sixteen sections.
This other short poem features the title object “glazed with rain water / beside the white chickens.” This poem was originally published without a title in the collection Spring and All.
This American poet wrote “The Red Wheelbarrow.” He also wrote an epic poem on a New Jersey city, “Paterson.”
Ezra Pound
“The Red Wheelbarrow”
William Carlos Williams
While riding on this object, one character exclaims “It’s Malabar.” For 10 points each:
Name this object that Paul rides in order to predict the winner of races. As a result of riding this object, Paul gains eighty thousand pounds for his mother.
The rocking horse is from “The Rocking-Horse Winner,” a story by this author who wrote about Paul Morel in Sons and Lovers.
D.H. Lawrence also wrote this novel about the title character, Constance, and her affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors.
Rocking Horse [prompt on partial answer]
D.H. Lawrence
Lady Chatterley’s Lover
These men are stuck in a perpetual state of taciturn, brooding gloom, but we love them anyway. For 10 points each, name these “bad boy” Byronic heroes of literature.
This rather exciting title character of Alexandre Dumas’ novel is determined to use his newfound wealth to destroy his enemies, including Villefort and Mondego, for wrongfully imprisoning him.
This recurring Jules Verne character is an Indian prince who is driven by hatred for the British Empire in The Mysterious Island and Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.
He may be hiding an insane wife in his attic, and he may cross-dress as a fortune-teller to see if his ward’s governess loves him, but this Byronic hero of Jane Eyre still makes readers swoon with lines like “My very soul demands you.”
Edmond Dantes [accept either underlined portion; accept the Count of Monte Cristo]
Captain Nemo [accept Prince Dakkar]
Edward Rochester [accept either underlined portion]
This author wrote about the McCaslin family in <em>Go Down, Moses</em>. For 10 points each:
Identify this American author who also wrote As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury.
As I Lay Dying focuses on this family that includes Dewey Dell, who attempts to terminate her unwanted pregnancy. Other members of this family include Cash, Darl, Jewel, Vardaman, and Addie.
Caddy is disowned by this family after giving birth to Miss Quentin. This central family of The Sound and the Fury consists of Jason, Benjy, Carol, and Quentin.
William Faulkner
Bundren family
Compson family
This poetry collection was translated into <em>Song Offerings</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this set of one hundred three poems, of which fifty were from the drama Achalayatan. The thirty-fifth poem from this collection states “Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high.”
This South Asian poet wrote Gitanjali. This Kolkatan was the first non-European to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
Tagore penned two of these specific compositions. One of those works is entitled “Jana Gana Mana” and ends with a line translated as “victory, victory, victory to thee.” Another example of these works is “God Save the Queen.”
Gitanjali
Rabindranath Tagore
National Anthems
For 10 points each, name these Shakespeare plays.
This play centers on two star-crossed lovers from Verona, and the events in it are driven by the family feud between the Capulets and the Montagues.
Critics debate the misogyny in this Shakespeare play because it revolves around Petruchio’s efforts to force his willful wife Katherina into submission by depriving her of food and water.
Lady Olivia’s rejection of Sir Andrew Aguecheek prompts him to challenge the crossdressing protagonist of this play to a duel; that same protagonist eventually marries Duke Orsino.
Romeo and Juliet
The Taming of the Shrew
Twelfth Night
This man’s most famous work was made into a musical called <em>Lost into the Star</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author who wrote about Reverend Kumalo and his son, Absalom, in Cry, the Beloved Country.
This author wrote about Morris and Zachariah’s racial differences in Blood Knot, and he wrote about the servants Sam and Willie in “Master Harold”... and the Boys.
Both Paton and Fugard are from this African country, where the Power of One was set. Authors J.M. Coetzee and Nadine Gordimer also hail from this country.
Alan Paton
Athol Fugard
South Africa
Identify these stories whose titles were inspired by the Bible. For 10 points each:
The plot of this John Steinbeck novel revolves around the story of Cain and Abel from Genesis. The title references the relative direction of where Cain finally settled, the Land of Nod.
This novel by Ernest Hemingway about Jake Barnes and Lady Brett Ashley was inspired by an Ecclesiastes passage that references how human concerns are minor relative to the entire world.
This William Faulkner novel takes its name from a son of a king of Israel who rebelled against his father’s empire, a reference to the protagonist’s own rebellious son Henry.
East of Eden
The Sun Also Rises
Absalom, Absalom!
For 10 points each, name the following about fictional places in American literature.
The fictional Yoknapatawpha County, the setting for several William Faulkner works, including As I Lay Dying, is located in this U.S. state.
L. Frank Baum’s Emerald City first appears in this book, which features characters like Dorothy and the Wicked Witch of the West.
Sinclair Lewis set several of his novels in this fictional U.S. state, including Babbitt and Elmer Gantry. In Babbitt, the title character lives in this state’s capital, Zenith.
Mississippi
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
Winnemac
The main plot of this work is told by the narrator while aboard the <em>Nellie</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this novella by Joseph Conrad, in which Marlow captains a steamboat into the African jungle. One character in this novella exclaims “The horror! The horror!” before dying.
This character orchestrates an attack on the narrator’s steamboat before its arrival at the Inner Station in Heart of Darkness. When Marlow returns to Europe, he lies to this man’s fiancé about his last words.
Marlow and Kurtz both work for an ivory company from this European country, whose capital city is described as a “sepulchered city.” William Makepeace Thackeray’s Vanity Fair takes place in England and this country.
Heart of Darkness
Kurtz
Belgium
You don’t even need to read the book; all you need to know is right there in the title. For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose full heading explains that the title con-woman was born in Newgate, was a whore for twelve years, married five men including her half-brother, stole, and was arrested, but died rich, happy, and honest.
This author of Moll Flanders is perhaps better known for beginning the realistic fiction genre with his novel about a castaway who is trapped for twenty-eight years on an island, Robinson Crusoe.
In Robinson Crusoe, the title character meets a cannibal that he named after this day of the week.
Moll Flanders
Daniel Defoe
Friday
Now you see me. Now you don’t. For 10 points each, answer some questions about these transparent texts.
The protagonist of this novel written by H. G. Wells is a scientist named Griffin who has discovered how to change his body’s refractive index. He eventually discovers that he is unable to undo the effect.
The Invisible Man must not be confused with this African-American author’s book Invisible Man, which tells the story of a young African-American man whose race is said to make him invisible.
Similar to not being seen is not seeing. In one play by this Athenian tragedian, Oedipus, the King of Thebes, blinds himself after realizing that he had killed his father and slept with his mother.
The Invisible Man [do NOT accept Invisible Man]
Ralph Ellison
Sophocles
The speaker of this poem has “seen the gunman kill and go free to kill again” and “seen the marks of wanton hunger” on the faces of women and children. For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the title city is “proud to be Hog Butcher, Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat, Player with Railroads and Freight Handler to the Nation.”
This poet of “Chicago” wrote other poems such as “Theme in Yellow,” “Door,” and “Fog.”
Sandburg also wrote this compilation of nonsensical short stories for his daughters, many of which are narrated by the Potato Face Blind Man.
“Chicago”
Carl Sandburg
Rootabaga Stories
In one short story by this author, Funes the Memorious gains the ability to remember everything. For 10 points each:
Name this Argentine short-story writer of “The Circular Ruins” and “The Garden of Forking Paths.”
All three of the aforementioned stories appear in this Borges short story collection. This collection is split into two parts titled “The Garden of Forking Paths” and “Artifices.”
Another Borges short story is titled after [this structure] of Babel. In it, the narrator describes a series of hexagonal rooms containing books which have every possible combination of letters written in them.
Jorge Luis Borges
Ficciones [accept Fictions]
“The Library of Babel”
The central character of this novella waits eighty-four days before finally catching a fish, only to have it eaten by a shark. For 10 points each:
Identify this Ernest Hemingway work about a fisherman.
This main character of The Old Man and the Sea has an apprentice named Manolin.
Santiago fantasizes about many things while he is out on the ocean, including dolphins and lions lying on a beach together, and this man, his favorite New York Yankees baseball player.
The Old Man and the Sea
Santiago
Joe DiMaggio
This novel is one of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature. For 10 points each:
Name this historical novel written by Luo Guanzhong that describes the turbulent end of the Han dynasty and the namesake period of Chinese history. It features characters like Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei
This strategy was most notably used by Zhuge Liang to defend Xicheng, when he calmly played the guqin and ordered all the city gates to be opened. This tactic relies on advocating a certain action with the expectation that the opposite action will occur.
In Romance of the Three Kingdoms, the three brothers take an oath in a garden named for this fruit. In Journey to the West, Sun Wukong is given the task of protecting a “heavenly garden” named after this fruit. Afterward, Sun Wukong steals this fruit, which is said to grant immortality.
Romance of the Three Kingdoms [accept San Guo Yan Yi]
Reverse psychology [prompt on partial answer]
Peach
The narrator of this work implores the reader to call her “Mary Beton, Mary Seton, or Mary Carmichael,” claiming her name is not important. For 10 points each:
Name this essay, which claims that a woman must have money and the title location in order to write fiction.
“A Room of One’s Own” was written by this British author, who also wrote about Clarissa Dalloway preparing for a party in Mrs. Dalloway and the Ramsay family in To the Lighthouse.
In “A Room of One’s Own,” Woolf creates Judith, the fictional sister of this male author, in order to illustrate society’s bias against women. In the essay, Judith dies in obscurity in London, while this author finds success and acclaim.
“A Room of One’s Own”
Virginia Woolf
William Shakespeare
Answer the following about <em>Arabian Nights</em>, for 10 points each.
The frame story of Arabian Nights is this woman telling stories to her husband, Shahryar, in order to delay her own execution.
One well-known story from Arabian Nights is about the seven voyages of this sailor. This man sails to strange lands, including an island which is actually a whale and an island inhabited by giant birds.
In the story “Ali Baba and Forty Thieves,” the title character opens the cave of the thieves with this password. Later, Ali Baba’s brother forgets the password and confuses it with “barley.”
Scheherazade
Sinbad the Sailor
Open Sesame
One novel set in this country, <em>The Thorn Birds</em>, is the story of multiple generations of the Cleary family living on a remote outpost in the Outback. For 10 points each:
Name this country. Writers from this country include Colleen McCullough, the author of the aforementioned novel, as well as Patrick White.
The most famous novel of Thomas Keneally, another Australian author, is titled after the “ark” of this man. This Nazi Party member helped save thousands of Polish Jews in World War II.
This Australian novelist wrote of a bet to move a glass church in Oscar and Lucinda. He also fictionalized Australian outlaw Ned Kelly in True History of the Kelly Gang.
Australia
Oskar Schindler
Peter Carey
Answer the following about famous road trips in American literature, for 10 points each.
This novel features Sal Paradise traveling across the United States, accompanying other characters such as Dean Moriarty. This book, a landmark of Beat literature, was written by Jack Kerouac.
Decades before the automobile, this author wrote Roughing It about his adventures in the American West, including visiting Mormons and sailing to the Kingdom of Hawaii. This author also wrote The Prince and the Pauper and A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court.
This author depicted Ken Kesey and his band of Merry Pranksters going on a “trip” when they rode the colorfully painted bus Further in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.
On the Road [do NOT accept The Road]
Mark Twain
Tom Wolfe
At this character’s first introduction, it is revealed that gifts of a whip and fiddle were lost and broken respectively. For 10 points each.
Name this orphaned gypsy, who falls in love with Catherine and attempts to win her over.
 Heathcliff appears in this novel about Nelly Dean telling Mr. Lockwood the story of Catherine’s marriage to Edgar Linton.
This British author wrote Wuthering Heights.
Heathcliff
Wuthering Heights
Emily Bronte [prompt on Bronte] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This story’s protagonist is knocked into a ditch by a black dog. For 10 points each.
Name this short story about Phoenix Jackson, who travels down the title road to get medicine for her grandson.
This Southern Gothic author of “A Worn Path” wrote about Laurel Hand and Fay McKelva in The Optimist’s Daughter.
This other Southern Gothic author wrote about the Grandmother and her family dying at the hands of The Misfit in “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
“A Worn Path”
Eudora Welty [or Eudora Alice Welty]
Flannery O’Connor [or Mary Flannery O’Connor] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
One character in this play becomes an accomplice in a scheme to steal leads for Graff “because [he] listened.” For 10 points each.
Name this play about Chicago real estate salesmen Levene, Moss, Roma, and Aaronow, who are forced to participate in a sales contest.
Glengarry Glen Ross is by this American author, who also wrote about Don’s Resale Shop in American Buffalo.
David Mamet wrote the play Oleanna [“Ol-e-anna”] about a person of this occupation named John, whom Carol prevents from getting tenure by filing a complaint of sexual harassment.
Glengarry Glen Ross
David Mamet [or David Alan Mamet]
professor [or teacher] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Icicles are “quietly shining to the quiet Moon” at the end of this poem. For 10 points each.
Name this nocturnal poem about the title entity performing “its secret ministry /unhelped by any wind.”
In this poem by the same author, the title character tells the Wedding-Guest about his experience shooting an albatross.
This author of “Kubla Khan” and “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner” collaborated with William Wordsworth on the collection Lyrical Ballads.
“Frost at Midnight”
“The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This work’s introduction was written by William Butler Yeats. For 10 points each.
Name this collection of poetry, which contains the lines “Thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure.”
This Bengali author of Gitanjali also wrote The Home and the World. He was the first non-European to win a Nobel Prize in Literature.
Tagore wrote the lyrics for Jana Gana Mana, the national anthem of this country.
Gitanjali [or Song Offerings]
Rabindranath Tagore [or Rabindranath Thakur; or Gurudev]
Republic of India [or Bharat] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
The title character of one of this author’s poems “strove to resuscitate the dead art / Of poetry.” For 10 points each.
Name this poet of “Hugh Selwyn [“sell-win”] Mauberly” whose poem “In a Station of the Metro” concludes with the line “Petals on a wet, black bough.”
This long poem by Pound includes sections such as “Fifth Decad” and “Rock-Drill” and was partly written while Pound was detained in an American Disciplinary Training Center.
While detained, Pound brought in a dictionary written in this language. Pound translated the collection Cathay into English from this language.
Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound]
The Cantos
Chinese [or Zhōngwén] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
 This play is the longest running show on London’s West End, with over 25,000 performances since 1952. For 10 points each.
Name this mystery play about the murder of Maureen Lyon. Sergeant Trotter interrogates the residents of Monkswell Manor in this play.
This author of The Mousetrap also wrote about a group of strangers, who are each accused of murder and killed on an island, in her novel And Then There Were None.
Christie created this fictional detective, who investigates the stabbing of Mr. Ratchett in Murder on the Orient Express, and also appears in her first play Black Coffee.
The Mousetrap
Agatha Christie
Hercule Poirot [or Hercule Poirot] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In a novel by this author, the brothers Mitsusaburo and Takashi participate in an uprising against a Korean “Emperor.” For 10 points each.
Name this author of The Silent Cry and Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids.
Oe’s A Personal Matter centers on Bird’s acceptance of the brain damage of a person with this relationship to him. Caliban has this relationship with Sycorax [“Sih-core-axe”] in The Tempest.
Kenzaburo Oe is an author from this Asian country, that is known for the haikus of Matsuo Basho.
Kenzaburo Oe
his son [or her son]
Japan [or Nippon; or Nihon] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The protagonist of this novel visits a family who lives in an upside-down boat, and goes to school at Salem House. For 10 points each.
Name this semi-autobiographical novel about the title character, who escapes his step-father Edward Murdstone and marries Agnes Wickfield.
This author of David Copperfield also penned the novels Hard Times and The Mystery of Edwin Drood.
This character in David Copperfield attends school with David and is later imprisoned for “fraud on the Bank of England.”
David Copperfield
Charles Dickens
Uriah Heep [or Uriah Heep] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Benjy narrates part one of this novel with frequent chronological jumps. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about the Compson family. Quentin narrates the events leading up to his suicide in part two of this novel.
This author of As I Lay Dying wrote The Sound and the Fury.
This fictional Mississippi county created by Faulkner appears in both As I Lay Dying and The Sound the Fury
The Sound and the Fury
William Faulkner [or William Cuthbert Faulkner]
Yoknapatawpha [“Yok-naw-pah-tau-pha”] County (accept any reasonable pronunciation) &lt;ed. ME&gt;
The White Council rules a socialist future society in one dystopian novel by this author. For 10 points each.
Name this author, who wrote about the insomniac Graham waking up rich after a two hundred year coma in The Sleeper Awakes.
In this H.G. Wells novel that is not to be confused with a Ralph Ellison work, the doctor Griffin’s experiments render him unobservable.
In this other Wells novel, the protagonist encounter Morlocks, Eloi [“Ee-loy”], and giant crab-like monsters who chase enormous butterflies.
H.G. Wells [or Herbert George Wells]
The Invisible Man
The Time Machine &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this play, Konstantin kills himself after learning that Nina loves Trigorin. For 10 points each.
Name this play in which Konstantin shoots the title bird as a symbol of love for Nina.
This author of The Seagull claimed that if a pistol is hung on the wall in a story, then it must be fired later--a principle known as his namesake gun.
In this Chekhov story, a lawyer agrees to spend 15 years in solitary confinement to prove that prison is more humane than the death penalty.
The Seagull
Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
“The Bet” [or “Pari”] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Answer the following about politics in literature. For 10 points each.
In this pro-abolitionist novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe, the title character is beaten to death by Simon Legree.
This “Kingfish” Louisiana politician was fictionalized as the corrupt Willie Stark in All the King’s Men.
This author created the railroad tycoon Dagny Taggart in one dystopian novel in which many successful business people leave the United States due to crippling regulations.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly
Huey Pierce Long Jr.
Ayn Rand [or Alisa Zinov’yevna Rosenbaum] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This collection opens with the poem “The Hill,” where one would find "Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley.” For 10 points each.
Name this collection of poems, narrated by the title town’s deceased residents, who include Lucinda Matlock and Indignation Joe.
One resident of Spoon River is Anne Rutledge, who was “beloved” in the “life of” this U.S. president. He is mourned in Walt Whitman’s “O Captain, My Captain”
This midwestern poet wrote Spoon River Anthology.
Spoon River Anthology
Abraham Lincoln
Edgar Lee Masters &lt;Marcy Lampe&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
A character in this novel shoots Nikolai’s brother Pavel in the thigh after being caught with Fenichka. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about Arkady Nikolaevich [“Ar-ka-dy Nick-ol-ay-vitch] and his nihilist friend Bazarov.
This Russian author of Fathers and Sons also wrote A Sportsman’s Sketches and The Diary of a Superfluous Man.
Turgenev lectured on the tension between solipsism and foolish altruism, which are represented by Hamlet and this character. This man from La Mancha is assisted by Sancho Panza.
Fathers and Sons [or Fathers and Children; or Ottsy i dety]
Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]
Don Quixote [or Don Quijote de la Mancha; or Don Quixote of La Mancha; or Alonso Quijano; or Alonso Quijano] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
When asked to name the first two apostles, this character responds with “David and Goliath.” For 10 points each.
Name this title character, who witnesses Injun Joe’s murder of Doc Robinson and discovers hidden gold in McDougal’s Cave.
In Twain’s novel Tom Sawyer Abroad, Tom, Huck, and Jim travel in a hot air balloon to this continent, where they see the Pyramids and the Sphinx.
In an unfinished novel by Mark Twain, Huck and Tom go on adventures with this character who is called “The Mysterious Stranger.”
Tom Sawyer [or Tom Sawyer]
Africa
Satan [or obvious equivalents, such as the devil] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This antagonist only appears in the short story “A Scandal in Bohemia.” For 10 points each.
Name this woman, an American opera singer who blackmails the King of Bohemia with an incriminating photograph of the two of them together.
Irene Adler outsmarts this detective, who resides at 221B Baker Street. According to his biographer John Watson, Adler was always “the woman” for this man.
Holmes first appeared in this novel, in which Holmes identifies the word “RACHE” as “revenge” in German. This book has been challenged for its negative portrayal of Mormons.
Irene Adler [or Irene Adler]
Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock Holmes]
A Study in Scarlet &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
A character in this novel, named Miss Wonderly, is revealed to be Brigid O’Shaughnessy. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about Sam Spade, who attempts to sell a counterfeit statuette of a bird.
Dashiell Hammett, the author of The Maltese Falcon, created Sam Spade, who is this type of character. This profession often solves “whodunit” cases.
Hammett had a 30-year affair with this playwright. She wrote about Regina Hubbard’s losing the respect of her daughter Alexandra over a cotton mill dispute in The Little Foxes.
The Maltese Falcon
detectives [or detective fiction; or detective stories]
Lillian Hellman &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Govinda fails to recognize this novel’s title character after parting ways with him to follow Gotama. For 10 points each.
Name this novella, whose protagonist achieves enlightenment with the help of the ferryman Vasudeva.
This German-born author of Siddhartha also wrote about Harry Haller’s trip to the Magic Theater in Steppenwolf.
This courtesan’s songbird dies in a dream Siddhartha has prior to leaving the city. She reveals that she gave birth to Siddhartha’s son before dying of a snakebite.
Siddhartha
Hermann Hesse [or Hermann Karl Hesse]
Kamala &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Characters in this novel frequent the Korova Milk Bar and engage in acts of “ultraviolence.” For 10 points each.
Name this novel in which Alex leads a gang of “droogs” before being subjected to the “Ludovico technique.”
Alex’s Ludovico aversion therapy renders him no longer able to appreciate this German’s Ninth Symphony, although he was previously Alex’s favorite composer.
Alex and his gang speak this Russian-inflected slang. In addition to “droog,” words in this language include “dratsing” for “fighting” and “horrorshow” for “good.”
A Clockwork Orange
Ludwig van Beethoven [prompt on a partial answer, such as Lovely Ludwig Van]
Nadsat &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this work, Mrs. Schacter <em>[“SHACK-ter”]</em> screams about fire, leading to her being bound and gagged. For 10 points each.
Name this memoir, in which the author constantly asks the question, “Where is God now?”
This Jewish author of Night also wrote Dawn and Day, as well as the play The Trial of God. He passed away in July 2016.
This other Jewish author wrote about a man, who attempts to kills frogs in a cistern with a flashlight bomb, after traveling to Africa in Henderson, the Rain King.
Night [or La Nuit]
Elie Wiesel [or Eliezer Wiesel]
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows] &lt;Jonathan Amlong&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This author reflected on the death of his wife in his book <em>A Grief Observed</em>, which he wrote under the pen name N.W. Clerk. For 10 points each.
Name this novelist and Christian apologist, who wrote The Chronicles of Narnia.
C.S. Lewis’s allegorical book The Great Divorce takes its title from this book. Aldous Huxley’s Doors of Perception also takes its title from this book.
This other C.S. Lewis work was originally published as a serial in an Anglican periodical called The Guardian. It is comprised of writings from a demon to his nephew Wormwood.
C.S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
The Marriage of Heaven and Hell (by William Blake)
The Screwtape Letters &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
 This novel begins and ends with the line “Barrabas came to us by the sea.” For 10 points each.
Name this novel that centers on the Trueba family, whose patriarch Esteban marries Clara del Valle after the death of her green-haired sister Rosa.
This magical realist author of Eva Luna wrote about four generations of the Trueba family in The House of the Spirits.
This South American country is where Allende [“Ay-en-day”] was born. Jaime Trueba may have been inspired by Arturo Jiron, the personal doctor of Salvador Allende, this country’s former president.
The House of the Spirits [or La Casa de los Espiritus]
Isabel Allende
Chile [or Republic of Chile; or Republica de Chile] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This poem is referenced by McCaslin Edmonds in William Faulkner’s <em>The Bear</em>, as he explains why his cousin Ike could not shoot Old Ben. For 10 points each.
Name this poem that includes the lines “She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss/Forever wilt thou love, and she be fair” when describing a “Bold Lover.”
“Ode on a Grecian Urn” was written by this British poet, who wrote the sonnets “Bright Star” and “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer.”
This other Keats ode that ends by asking “Do I wake or sleep?” tells the title “light-winged Dryad” that it was “not born for death.”
“Ode on a Grecian Urn” [do NOT accept “Ode to a Grecian Urn”]
John Keats
“Ode to a Nightingale” &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this short story, Old Man Warner claims that if the title event is held “in June, corn be heavy soon.” For 10 points each.
Name this short story by Shirley Jackson, which ends with Tessie Hutchinson being stoned to death after Mr. Summers draws her name out of a box.
“The Lottery” was originally published in this magazine, that often features the dandy Eustace Tilley on its covers.
Shirley Jackson’s The Haunting of Hill House is an example of this kind of story. These kinds of stories are named for the fact that they feature hauntings by supernatural beings.
“The Lottery”
The New Yorker
ghost stories [prompt on horror stories; prompt on Gothic stories] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Tonja Carter discovered the manuscript for this novel in a safe deposit box in 2011. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about Jean Louise’s return to Maycomb, Alabama.
Go Set a Watchman, written by Harper Lee, is the sequel to this novel about Scout’s childhood.
Jean Louise suspects her father Atticus is a segregationist when she finds a pamphlet with this title among Atticus’s papers.
Go Set a Watchman
To Kill a Mockingbird
“The Black Plague” &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
A character in this collection uses King Demetrius of Parthia and Attila the Hun as examples of gluttons, and tells a story about three men who set out to kill death. For 10 points each.
Name this collection of stories told by a group of travelers, including the Pardoner, at the Tabard Inn.
This author of The Book of the Duchess and Troilus and Criseyde is best known for writing The Canterbury Tales.
In this character’s tale, Alisoun [“Alison”] declares that women are unable to keep secrets, as exemplified by Ovid’s story of Midas and his ears.
The Canterbury Tales
Geoffrey Chaucer
the Wife of Bath’s tale [or the tale of the Wife of Bath] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
The narrator of this novel sees the apparition of a man on a tower and later sees that same apparition in a dining room window. For 10 points each.
Name this novella about a governess seeing the ghosts of Miss Jessel and Peter Quint, who interact with the children Miles and Flora.
This American author wrote The Turn of the Screw and Daisy Miller. He also wrote about Isabel Archer in The Portrait of a Lady.
In Daisy Miller, Daisy dies after she catches a disease named for this city. Daisy dies after meeting Giovanelli at the Colosseum, which is located in this city.
The Turn of the Screw
Henry James
Rome [or Roma; or Roman fever] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Will Kempe was Shakespeare’s go-to comic actor. Name some of Kempe’s iconic roles, for 10 points each.
Kempe played this bumbling constable in Much Ado About Nothing, as he is named in the stage directions. This character is prone to malapropisms, which are sometimes named for him.
Scholars speculate that Kempe also played this comic character, a fat knight who appears in both Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor.
Kempe is also mentioned in the Quarto text of this play as having played Peter, a servant of the Capulet household.
Dogberry
Sir John Falstaff [or John Falstaff]
Romeo and Juliet &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Answer the following about speeches given by Nobel laureates in literature. For 10 points each.
This 2010 Nobel Laureate wrote Aunt Julie and the Scriptwriter and compared his native Peru to a cousin “with upturned nose and indomitable character” in his lecture.
In this author’s lecture, he described growing up in an Indian immigrant community in Trinidad. This author wrote A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas.
The “people of Chernobyl” were referenced in the lecture of 2015 Nobel Laureate Svetlana Alexievich. Despite her Ukrainian birth, Alexievich grew up in this neighboring country.
Mario Vargas Llosa [do NOT accept or prompt partial last name]
V.S. Naipaul [or Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul]
Republic of Belarus &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Roy Hobbs, a player of this sport, attempts to revive his career after being shot by Harriet Bird in Bernard Malamud’s <em>The Natural</em>. For 10 points each.
Name this sport. In Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea, Santiago describes the feats of “the great DiMaggio,” another player of this sport.
In this play by August Wilson, Troy Maxson describes his affair with Alberta as “trying to steal second.”
Perhaps the most famous ballplayer in American literature is this title character of an Ernest Thayer poem. This man strikes out in the last inning to lose a game for the Mudville Nine.
baseball [or a baseball player]
Fences
Casey [or “Casey at the Bat”] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This poem begins “Sunset and evening star, and one clear call for me!” For 10 points each.
Identify this poem about death and a speaker who hopes to “see [his] Pilot face to face.”
This poem by the author of “Crossing the Bar” describes the title group’s ride into the “valley of Death” during the battle of Balaclava.
This poet wrote both “Crossing the Bar” and “Charge of the Light Brigade.”
“Crossing the Bar”
“Charge of the Light Brigade”
Alfred Lord Tennyson &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this novel, the lovers Emil and Marie begin an affair under a mulberry tree, and are later shot dead by the jilted husband. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about Alexandra Bergson, who marries her childhood love, Carl Linstrum.
O Pioneers! was written by this Nebraskan author, who used her homeland as a setting for her novel My Antonia.
This Cather novel is the second installment in the Great Plains trilogy. It follows Thea Kronberg as she travels to perfect her opera career.
O Pioneers!
Willa Cather [or Wilella Sibert Cather]
The Song of the Lark &lt;Marcy Lampe&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This character is told he lives in the “best of all possible worlds.” For 10 points each.
Name this student of Dr. Pangloss and lover of Cunégonde [“Cu-nay-gond”], the title character of a novel by Voltaire.
Candide and the valet Cacomo find themselves in this utopian village, which is filled with precious stones and rumored to be in South America.
Candide is taken in by this character after his banishment from Thunder-ten-tronckh. This pessimist accompanies Candide to Lisbon, but drowns while trying to save a sailor’s life.
Candide, ou l'Optimisme [or All for the Best; the Optimist; Optimism for subtitle translations]
El Dorado
Jacques the Anabaptist &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This story was based on its author’s experience with the sinking of the Commodore. For 10 points each.
Name this short story, in which Billie the oiler dies trying to escape the title shipwreck.
The author of “The Open Boat” also wrote this novel, where Henry Fleming flees from battle before getting hit on the head with a rifle, and claims to have earned the title wound.
This American author wrote “The Open Boat” and The Red Badge of Courage
“The Open Boat”
The Red Badge of Courage
Stephen Crane &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Chinua Achebe called this work’s author “a thoroughgoing racist” and said that its setting of Africa was “a metaphysical battlefield devoid of all recognizable humanity.” For 10 points each.
Name this novella, critiqued by Achebe in his lecture “An Image of Africa” for its depiction of natives along the Congo river.
Heart of Darkness was written by this Polish-British author of The Secret Agent and Nostromo.
Marlow discovers that Kurtz has handwritten this exact four-word phrase on his report about suppressing the culture of the natives, a sign that Kurtz has been changed by his environment.
Heart of Darkness
Joseph Conrad [or Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
“Exterminate all the brutes!” &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Mr. and Mrs. Martin debate whether they are husband and wife before the arrival of this character. For 10 points each.
Name this character, who arrives unexpectedly at the Smiths’ dinner party, despite there being no emergency.
The Fire Chief appears in this absurdist play by Eugene Ionesco, which ends with the Martin family replacing the Smith family.
This country is home to many absurdist works, such as Albert Camus’ The Myth of Sisyphus.
the Fire Chief
The Bald Soprano [or The Bald Prima Donna; or La Cantatrice Chauve]
France [or French Republic; or Republique Francaise] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This collection gained its title in 1795 in a translation by William Owen Pughe, although a more famous translator of this work is Lady Charlotte Guest. For 10 points each:
Name this mythological collection that includes “Four Branches.” The character Pryderi appears in all four branches, and he meets his death in single combat after invading Gwynedd.
Lady Guest’s Mabinogion [“Mab-in-oh-gee-on”] includes some of the earliest stories about this legendary British king. In the tale “Culhwch [“Cull-witch”] and Olwen,” this man’s court is called Celliwig rather than Camelot.
The Mabinogion collects stories from this constituent country of the United Kingdom. Owain Glendower and Cadwalader, historical rulers of this region, also attained legendary status.
The Mabinogion [or The Four Branches of the Mabinogi]
King Arthur Pendragon
Wales [or Cymru] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This work’s title character cross-dresses in the Sultan’s seraglio, fights in Catherine the Great’s army, and sees his dog and his tutor Pedrillo eaten by sailors. For 10 points each.
Name this mock epic, written in ottava rima, about a young man seduced by numerous women.
Don Juan was written by this British poet of “So We’ll Go No More A-Roving” and Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage.
Byron also wrote this three-stanza poem about “a love whose heart is innocent” and noted “All that’s best of dark and bright/Meet in her aspect and her eyes.”
Don Juan [“Don JOO-wan”]
Lord Byron [or George Gordon, 6th Baron Byron]
“She Walks in Beauty” &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. Mike Etzkorn&gt;
The protagonist of this novel is accompanied by Faithful and Hopeful and fights the monster Apollyon in the Valley of Humiliation. For 10 points each.
Name this allegorical novel in which Christian makes the title journey to the Celestial City.
This author of The Holy War and The Life and Death of Mr. Badman wrote Pilgrim’s Progress.
Pilgrim’s Progress is a childhood game reenacted by the central characters of this novel. The central characters of this novel also create a Pickwick club.
Pilgrim’s Progress
John Bunyan
Little Women &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In one of this author’s poems, the speaker sleeps in soot and declares “if all do their duty, they need not fear harm.” For 10 points each.
Name this poet of “The Chimney Sweeper.” The speaker of another of his poems grows the title plant with his wrath in “A Poison Tree.”
This poem in Blake’s collection Songs of Experience describes the “fearful symmetry” of the namesake animal “burning bright / in the forest of the night.”
In this poem by Blake, the speaker describes feet walking upon “England’s mountains green” and describes the title location built “among these dark Satanic Mills”
William Blake
“The Tyger”
“Jerusalem” &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In an opera about this man by Benjamin Britten, he is never actually shown on stage, but rather portrayed by an off-stage actor. For 10 points each:
Name this giant from American folklore, who is said to have created the Grand Canyon by dragging his axe.
This giant blue ox and companion of Paul Bunyan is said to have been able to eat thirty bales of hay as a snack.
As a baby, Paul Bunyan slept in a floating cradle in this Northeastern bay, and his rocking caused its violent tidal waves.
Paul Bunyan [or Paul Bunyan]
Babe
Bay of Fundy &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This novel opens with the protagonist trying to learn how to swim while on vacation in Grand Isle. For 10 points each.
Name this novel centering on Edna Pontellier’s numerous affairs, which ends with Edna walking into the Gulf of Mexico to drown herself.
This author of The Awakening also used Louisiana as the setting for her short story collections Bayou Folk and A Night in Acadie.
In this Chopin short story, Louise Mallard dies of a heart attack after her husband Brently surprisingly returns home alive.
The Awakening
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O'Flaherty]
“The Story of an Hour” &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
One poem in this collection describes how “Strange it is, to inhabit the earth no longer.” For 10 points each.
Name this poetry collection, which begins, “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?”
This author wrote the Duino Elegies during his so-called “creative storm.”
Rilke addressed 55 sonnets to this mythical figure. This mythical figure looked behind himself before leaving the underworld, thus failing to rescue his wife Eurydice.
The Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien]
Rainer Maria Rilke [or René Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]
Orpheus [or Sonnets to Orpheus; or Die Sonette an Orpheus] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
In one short story by this author, the protagonist shoots himself and two other people in order for his triplets to be allowed to be born. For 10 points each.
Name this author of short stories such as 2 B R 0 2 B [“Two be are naught two be”], which appears in his collection Welcome to the Monkey House. He also wrote Cat’s Cradle.
Vonnegut is most famous for this novel, which follows the story of Billy Pilgrim being abducted by aliens and surviving the firebombing of Dresden.
This recurring character in Vonnegut books is the science-fiction author of 117 novels and over 2000 short stories. This author’s entire collection is owned by Eliot Rosewater.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
Slaughterhouse Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty Dance with Death
Kilgore Trout [or Kilgore Trout] &lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
In one scene in this novel, Amina collapses in the street and breaks her collarbone when her husband is on a business trip. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about Ahmad Abd Al-Jawad and his family, that takes place during World War 1. It’s the first novel in the Cairo Trilogy.
This author of The Thief and the Dogs and Miramar wrote the Cairo Trilogy.
This home country of Mahfouz is where the Cairo Trilogy is set. Mahfouz wrote about the assassination of a president of this country in The Day The Leader Was Killed.
Palace Walk [or Between the Two Palaces; or Bayn al-Qasrayn]
Naguib Mahfouz
Egypt [or Arab Republic of Egypt; or Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
In Mulvey’s film theory, these people are the “object,” as opposed to a counterpart’s “gaze.” For 10 points each:
Name these people, one of whom wrote about “the problem who has no name” in a book titled for their “mystique.” That book about these people was written by Betty Friedan.
This existentialist partner of Jean-Paul Sartre [“SART”] claimed that men characterize women as “the Other” in her book The Second Sex.
This UC Berkeley professor has described gender as performative in books such as Gender Trouble and Bodies That Matter.
Women [or being a woman; or being feminine; or feminist; or The Feminine Mystique; prompt on sex; do NOT accept of prompt on “gender”]
Simone de Beauvoir [or Simone Lucie Ernestine Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir]
Judith Butler &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. HB&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
This character is claimed by his mother’s master Gray Beaver, and is terrorized by Lip-lip. For 10 points each.
Name this part-wolf dog, who is domesticated when he moves to California with Weedon Scott.
This author of White Fang wrote about the dog Buck’s joining of an Alaska sled dog team in The Call of the Wild.
In this novel by London, Humphrey van Weyden is rescued by Captain Larson from the seal-hunting ship The Ghost.
White Fang
Jack London [or John Griffith Jack London]
The Sea-Wolf &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This novel takes its title from a location in <em>The Pilgrim’s Progress</em>. For 10 points each.
Name this “novel without a hero,” that follows the lives of Emmy Sedley and Becky Sharp.
This British satirist contrasted the lives of the rich Emma Sedley and the orphan Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair.
At the beginning of Vanity Fair, Becky Sharp vindictively smiles as she throws one of these objects out of a coach.
Vanity Fair; or A Novel without a Hero
William Makepeace Thackeray
dictionary [or Samuel Johnson’s A Dictionary of the English Language] &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
The Marquis de la Mole’s daughter buries the protagonist’s severed head at the end of this novel. For 10 points each.
Name this novel in which Julian Sorel shoots Madame de Renal after she prevents him from marrying Mathilde.
This 19th century French author wrote The Red and the Black.
In Stendhal’s The Charterhouse of Parma, Frabrizio del Dongo fights in this battle. George Osborne dies at this battle in Vanity Fair.
The Red and the Black: A Chronicle of the 19th Century [or The Scarlet and the Black; or Le Rouge et le Noir: Chronique du XIXe siécle]
Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
Battle of Waterloo &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
It was first practiced by Michael Chekhov, and developed further by Lee Strasberg. For 10 points each:
Name this technique, by which an actor uses intense emotional recall of personal experiences to emotionally identify with their character. Daniel Day-Lewis practices this technique.
This Russian director first described method acting as a “system” in his book An Actor Prepares.
Stanislavsky collaborated with Edward Craig in a production of this play in Moscow in 1911. Craig’s set included sheets of gauze that fell away after Claudius’ exit from the first court scene.
Method Acting
Konstantin Stanislavski
Hamlet &lt;David Dennis&gt;
Government agencies in this book include the oxymoronically named Ministry of Love, and Ministry of Truth. For 10 points each.
Name this novel about Winston and Julia’s attempt to rebel against the totalitarian government of Oceania.
This author of 1984, also wrote of the power struggle between the pigs Napoleon and Snowball in Animal Farm.
Orwell also wrote this nonfiction account of his time fighting with the POUM against the Nationalist government of Spain.
1984 [or Nineteen Eighty-Four]
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
Homage to Catalonia &lt;Jonathan Amlong&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This character is defeated after Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane <em>[“Dun-sin-ayne”]</em>, by a character who was “untimely ripped” from his mother’s womb. For 10 points each.
Name this title character, who becomes king after assassinating Duncan in a Shakespeare play.
Three witches prophesize that this character will be “lesser than Macbeth, and greater” and that he will father kings. He is murdered by three men hired by Macbeth.
This son of Banquo is told to “fly, fly, fly” and successfully escapes the murderers’ attempts to kill him.
Macbeth
Banquo
Fleance &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this play, the valium addict Harper discovers her husband Joe Pitt is a homosexual. For 10 points each.
Name this play, divided into the sections “Millennium Approaches” and “Perestroika”, which sees Louis leave Prior Walter.
This character in Angels in America is a gay lawyer, who is visited by the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg before his death.
Roy Cohn and Prior Walter both suffer from this disease. Roy Cohn acquires the drug AZT to fight symptoms of this disease.
Angels in America (by Tony Kushner)
Roy Cohn [or Roy Cohn]
AIDS [or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; or HIV; or Human Immunodeficiency Virus; or any combination of AIDS and HIV] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed.ME&gt;
This play is divided into the sections “The Exorcism,” “Walpurgisnacht” <em>[“Wall-pur-giss-nakt”]</em> and “Fun and Games.” For 10 points each.
Name this play about George and Martha’s dysfunctional marriage, which is exacerbated by the arrival of Nick and Honey.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf is by this American playwright, who died in 2016. He wrote about two lizards named Leslie and Sarah in Seascape.
In Albee’s play Zoo Story, Jerry goads Peter into a fight near a bench in Central Park, which is located in this Northeastern city.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee [or Edward Franklin Albee III]
New York City &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this play, there is a dispute over the phrase “light the kettle.” For 10 points each.
Name this play, in which the hitmen Ben and Gus receive cryptic messages via the title device.
This absurdist author of The Dumb Waiter also wrote Betrayal and The Birthday Party.
In The Birthday Party, this character is asked “Why did the chicken cross the road?” and receives a toy drum before being abducted by Goldberg and McCann.
The Dumb Waiter
Harold Pinter
Stanley Webber [or Stanley Webber] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
Tatyana wonders if this man is just a mishmash of literary heroes when she reads his books. For 10 points each.
Name this title dandy, who duels Lensky and delivers a namesake “sermon” in response to a love letter from Tatyana.
Eugene Onegin is a verse novel by Alexander Pushkin, who wrote during this European country’s “Golden Age of Literature.” Nikolai Gogol wrote in this country’s language.
This Indian author used Eugene Onegin’s distinctive rhyme scheme to write The Golden Gate. He wrote about Mrs. Rupa Mehra’s efforts to find a husband for Lata in A Suitable Boy.
Eugene Onegin [or Eugene Onegin]
Russia [or Rossija; or Rossiya]
Vikram Seth &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
Answer these questions about European epic poems. For 10 points each.
El Cid, a hero from this modern-day country, is exiled from Castile and eventually becomes a hero. El Cid later rules Valencia, a city in this modern-day country.
This medieval French poem sees its title hero fight with Charlemagne’s army at the Battle of Roncevaux [“Ron-say-voh”] Pass.
This national epic of Portugal celebrates Vasco da Gama’s discovery of a sea route to India.
Spain [or Espana; or Kingdom of Spain; or Reino de Espana]
 The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
The Lusiads [or Os Lusíadas] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
This author wrote about an eight-year-old girl, who stubbornly counts her deceased siblings as still being part of her family, in “We Are Seven.” For 10 points each.
Name this British poet, who wrote about a girl who “dwelt among the untrodden ways” in his “Lucy” poems.
This Wordsworth’s poem begins “Five years have passed” since the speaker visited the title location, a monastery on the River Wye.
In another Wordsworth poem, the speaker “wanders lonely as a cloud” before seeing “ten thousand” of these bright yellow flowers “tossing their heads in sprightly dance.”
William Wordsworth
“Tintern Abbey“ [or “Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey, On Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during a Tour. July 13, 1978.”)
Daffodils &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
In this poem, the title character is described as “richer than a king.” For 10 points each.
Name this poem, which ends with the title character killing himself by putting “a bullet through his head.”
This author of “Richard Cory” wrote about the residents of Tilbury Town in his collection Children of the Night.
This poem by Robinson refers to the title character as a “child of scorn” and spends his days thinking of what might have been if he had only been born earlier.
“Richard Cory”
Edwin Arlington Robinson
“Miniver Cheevy” &lt;ed. ME&gt;
Answer some questions about the movies of Woody Allen, for 10 points each:
Allen’s Love and Death heavily parodies the literature of this modern day country. Pierre Bezhukov concocts a plan to assassinate Napoleon in War and Peace, a novel by Leo Tolstoy, who was a native of this country.
Along with F. Scott Fitzgerald, the protagonist of Allen’s Midnight in Paris also meets this author, whose real life works include The Killers and A Moveable Feast.
The title character of Allen’s Hannah and Her Sisters plays the lead role in this Henrik Ibsen play. This play ends with a famous door slam as Nora decides to leave her husband, Torvald.
Russia [do not accept “USSR”]
Ernest Hemingway
A Doll’s House [or Et dukkehjem] &lt;EX&gt;
This commander at the Battle of the Cowshed used the principles of Julius Caesar to beat back an attack led by Mr. Jones. For 10 points each:
Name this character who teaches various animals how to read and write, but who is eventually outmaneuvered by Napoleon in a 1945 allegorical novella.
Snowball appears in this author’s novella Animal Farm. This author of The Road to Wigan Pier also created the character of Winston Smith in his dystopian 1984.
In 1984, Winston Smith lives in Airstrip One, a part of the super-state of Oceania. Name either of the other two nations that Oceania is locked in a perpetual cycle of conflict and war with.
Snowball
George Orwell [accept Eric Arthur Blair]
Eurasia or Eastasia &lt;EX&gt;
This book includes a group of wheelchair assassins from Quebec. For 10 point each:
Name this novel, primarily centered on the Incandenza family and their activities at the Enfield Tennis Academy. Before a disfiguring accident caused her to veil her face, Madame Psychosis starred in the title film.
Infinite Jest was written by this author and essayist who committed suicide in 2008. He wrote about going on a cruise in “A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never do Again.”
Wallace wrote an essay asking the reader to “Consider” this crustacean. In it, he asks if it is “all right to boil a sentient creature alive just for our gustatory pleasure?” The essay originated following his trip to Maine.
Infinite Jest
David Foster Wallace
lobster &lt;AB&gt;
This play's chorus is made up of the title figures, who hunt Orestes for murdering his mother. For 10 points each:
Name this third play in Aeschylus's Oresteia trilogy.
This mother of Orestes was murdered after she killed her husband Agamemnon and had an affair with Aegisthus. Her ghost rouses the Eumenides at the opening of the play.
This goddess, the daughter of Zeus, casts the deciding vote to acquit Orestes. Her symbol is the owl, and she was a virginal goddess of wisdom.
The Eumenides
Clytemnestra
Athena &lt;CD&gt;
One character in this play thinks that the world will explode since the moon appears to be coming closer. For ten points each:
Name this play in which the hymn “Blessed Be the Tie that Binds” is sang three times and which follows the love story between George Gibbs and Emily Webb.
This playwright of Our Town also wrote about the Bridge of San Luis Rey collapsing and a family that escapes an Ice Age by the skin of their teeth.
This country is the setting of the Bridge of San Luis Rey. The fictional Pedro Camacho wrote scripts for radio soap operas in this country.
Our Town
Thornton Wilder
Peru &lt;SS&gt;
Bonus: It is split into the sections “The Horror and the Glory” and “Southern Night.” For 10 points each:
Name this memoir. In its second section, the narrator moves to Chicago and becomes involved with a John Reed Club and the magazine Left Front.
Black Boy was written by Richard Wright. In this Wright book, Bigger Thomas accidentally smothers Mary and is sentenced to death for it.
Black Boy ends with Wright’s decision to leave this political party. The Redhunter is a novel based on the life of Joseph McCarthy, who led a hunt for people belonging to this party in the US government.
Black Boy
Native Son
American Communist party [accept marxism] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This man used an insect as a metaphor for sex in his poem “The Flea.” For 10 points each:
Name this author of the Holy Sonnets. This metaphysical poet also wrote a poem ending with the line “Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me,” titled “Batter my heart, three person’d god.”
Donne’s tenth Holy Sonnet says that this thing is “slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men” and that “poppy or charms can make us sleep...better than thy stroke.” The title of that poem warns it to “be not proud.”
A Donne sermon provided the title of this man’s novel Set This House on Fire. Thomas Gray prosecutes the title character in his book The Confessions of Nat Turner.
John Donne
death
William Styron &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following questions about literary families, for 10 points each:
This author won an Orange Prize for depicting the Belsey family in the novel On Beauty. Earlier, she wrote about the Iqbal and Jones families in her first novel, White Teeth.
This author wrote about Scout and Jem, members of the Finch family, in her novel To Kill a Mockingbird.
The Glass family is featured in this author’s short story collection Nine Stories. This author wrote about Seymour Glass’s suicide in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” one of the stories in that collection.
Zadie Smith
Harper Lee
J.D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This town’s rats all begin to die at the beginning of a book in which The Prefect makes the decision to quarantine it. For 10 points each:
Name this Algerian town, which is closed at the suggestion of Dr. Rieux.
Oran is quarantined in this novel, in which Dr. Rieux attempts to combat the title phenomenon, which may or may not have killed a priest named Father Paneloux.
The Plague is by this French Algerian author, who also wrote about Mersault’s trial and execution in The Stranger.
Oran
The Plague [or La Peste]
Albert Camus &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This author included “Wunderkind” in <em>The Ballad of the Sad Cafe.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this author, whose novel The Member of the Wedding follows the tomboy Frankie Addams. A more famous novel by this author features the deaf-mute John Singer.
This author called Clock Without Hands, a McCullers novel, “the worst book I have ever read.” The Misfit murders the Grandmother in her story “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
McCullers and O’Connor were both female members of this literary tradition, which uses slightly disturbing or sinister elements in works that are set in the namesake part of the United States.
Carson McCullers
Flannery O’Connor
Southern Gothic &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: He wrote about “mothers loud and fat” and “an uncle shouting smut” in <em>The Whitsun Weddings</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who also wrote a poem that opens with a complaint about “your mum and dad” and ends with the warning “don’t have any kids yourself.”
The title of the aforementioned poem, “This be the verse,” is drawn from this author’s Requiem. He wrote Kidnapped as well as a book that details Jim Hawkins’ relationship with the pirate Long John Silver.
The Whitsun Weddings uses an ode form named for this poet, who used it in his “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
Philip Larkin
Robert Louis Stevenson
John Keats &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This book includes a set of 17 characters all named Aureliano, who are eventually hunted down and identified due to the permanent Ash Wednesday cross they all bear. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, which follows several generations of the Buendia family in the town of Macondo.
In One Hundred Years of Solitude, a prophecy predicts that “the first of the line is tied to a tree and the last of the line is being eaten by” these creatures. Thoreau observed a battle of these creatures in Walden.
The Aureliano that was eaten by ants was also born with the tail of this animal. One of these animals named Napoleon defeats his rival Snowball and eventually begins acting like a human in George Orwell’s Animal Farm.
One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien Años de Soledad]
ants
pig &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: A collection of “scattered rhymes” by an author from this modern-day country contained 366 poems about a woman named Laura that its author had seen in church. For 10 points each:
Name this country home to the poet Petrarch, who wrote the collection Il Canzoniere.
In this Italian 2nd person novel, you, the reader, are the narrator. You often find that the miniature novellas within this novel cut off unexpectedly.
William of Baskerville and Adso of Melk attempt to solve murders at a Benedictine monastery in The Name of the Rose, a novel by this other Italian author of Foucault’s Pendulum.
Italy
If on a Winter’s Night a Traveler
Umberto Eco &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: His essay “Tradition and the Individual Talent” inspired the field of New Criticism. For 10 points each:
Name this English-American poet, better known for poems such as The Waste Land and “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock.”
Eliot created the “objective correlative” to accuse this Shakespeare character of poor development in an essay about “His Problems.” Thomas Kyd may have written the “Ur” version of a play featuring this character.
Eliot’s verse play Murder in the Cathedral concerns the killing of this English Archbishop of Canterbury. This man was murdered by four knights acting under Henry II in 1170.
T(homas) S(tearns) Eliot
Hamlet [accept “Hamlet and His Problems”]
Thomas Becket &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: She sees her husband Roger Chillingworth in the crowd while standing on a scaffold. For 10 points each:
Name this character who is forced to sew the letter “A” in all of her clothing after being charged with adultery in the novel The Scarlet Letter.
The Scarlet Letter is a novel by this American author, whose short stories include “Roger Malvin’s Burial” and “Young Goodman Brown.”
The man whom Hester has an affair with, Arthur Dimmesdale, performs this action in private as penitence for his adultery before a tapestry of David and Bathsheba.
Hester Prynne [accept either underlined name]
Nathaniel Hawthorne
he flogs himself [accept flogging or whipping or other descriptive answers] &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: The line “at five in the afternoon” is repeated in a poem about one of them. For 10 points each:
Name these people, one of whom was named Ignacio Sanchez Mejias. The author cries out “I will not see it!” in a section concerning “The Spilled Blood” of a member of this profession.
The “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter” was written by this member of the Generation of ’27, a playwright and poet who wrote the plays The House of Bernarda Alba and Blood Wedding.
This celestial object appears as a character named La Luna in the play Blood Wedding. This object is said to be a “Harsh Mistress” in the title of a Robert Heinlein novel about its colonization.
bullfighter [or matador]
Federico Garcia Lorca
the Moon &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Answer the following about graphic novels, for 10 points each:
This superhero takes in the 13-year old girl Carrie Kelley and fights Ronald Reagan’s henchman Superman in Frank Miller's graphic novel The Dark Knight Returns.
Art Spiegelman wrote this graphic novel about his father Vladek’s experiences during the Holocaust. In this graphic novel, Germans are depicted as cats, Poles as pigs, and Americans as dogs.
This two-part graphic memoir by Marjane Satrapi, named for an ancient city, was adapted into a film and depicts her experiences before, during, and after the Islamic Revolution in Iran..
Batman
Maus
Persepolis &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: The death of the protagonist of this work is represented with a blank chapter titled “Vanished into the Clouds.” For 10 points each:
Name this early novel, which focuses on the characters Niou and Kaoru after the title character dies.
The Tale of Genji depicts fictional events in the court of this Asian nation. Another early work from this country is The Tale of the Heike.
This Japanese author described his visits to the south in “The Records of a Weather-Exposed Skeleton,” and he included many haikus in The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
The Tale of Genji [or Genji monogatari]
Japan [or Nihon]
Basho Matsuo &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Christine de Pizan wrote <em>The Book of the City of Ladies</em> as a critique of a French romance named for this flower. For 10 points each:
Name these flowers, a “red, red” one of which was said to resemble the author’s love in a Robert Burns poem.
The Book of the City of Ladies draws heavily from this author’s book On Famous Women. He is most famous for a collection of 100 stories, including the testing of Griselda and the story of Saladin and Melchizedek.
That book, the Decameron, is set in a villa outside Florence, where nobles are hiding from this disease.
rose
Boccaccio
black plague [or Black Death] &lt;AB&gt;
Jim Burden defends the title character of this novel by killing a rattlesnake with a shovel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel centering on Jim’s visit with the title woman and her husband, Anton Cuzak.
This author of My Antonia included it as part of her “Prairie Trilogy,” which also includes The Song of the Lark and O Pioneers!
Jim Burden returns to this US state in the opening of My Antonia. In O Pioneers!, the Bergsons’ farm is located in this state’s fictional town of Hanover.
My Antonia
Willa Cather
Nebraska &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Its speaker notes that “Five years have past!” since he has visited the title structure. For 10 points each:
Name this poem, addressed to the author’s sister Dorothy, which concerns a visit to a structure along the River Wye near the Welsh border.
This English poet and author of the “Lucy” poems included “Tintern Abbey” in his collection Lyrical Ballads, which was published with Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
An ode by Wordsworth titled “Intimations” of this subject bemoans the author’s increasing detachment from beauty. This entity is the other occupant of a carriage containing Death and the author in an Emily Dickinson poem.
“Lines Written a few miles above Tintern Abbey”
William Wordsworth
immortality &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: In this story, a fictionalized version of its author has a conversation with a fictionalized Bioy Casares. For 10 points each:
Name this story, in which the billionaire Ezra Buckley and others create fictional worlds that begin to take over the real world.
Tlon, Uqbar, Orbius Tertius was written by this Argentine author of many short stories, among them The Library of Babel and The Garden of Forking Paths.
Borges wrote his Ficciones in this language, which was also the tongue used in gaucho literature like Martin Fierro.
Tlon, Uqbar, Orbius Tertius
Jorge Luis Borges
Spanish [or Español] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: A Cockney flower-girl is taught how to speak “proper” English by Henry Higgins in this play. For 10 points each:
Name this comedic play which was adapted by Lerner and Loewe into the Broadway musical starring Julie Andrews, called My Fair Lady.
This Irish author of Major Barbara and Arms and the Man wrote about Henry Higgins and Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion. He also produced a namesake language that used an entirely phonetic alphabet.
In Shaw’s play Mrs. Warren’s Profession, Vivie is scandalized to learn that her mother worked as one of these people, and that her mother currently manages these people for a living.
Pygmalion
George Bernard Shaw
prostitute [or synonyms] &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: The Shah of Bratpuhr tours America in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Paul Proteus becomes disillusioned with the automation of his society and is eventually set up as the figurehead leader of the Ghost Shirt revolutionary movement.
Player Piano was written by this author of novels such as The Sirens of Titan and Cat’s Cradle, which ends when Ice-9 consumes the world.
Vonnegut wrote this novel in which Billy Pilgrim becomes unstuck in time and is, among other things, put in a Trafalmadorian zoo.
Player Piano
Kurt Vonnegut
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This author’s namesake sonnet form alternates feminine and masculine endings. For 10 points each:
Name this Russian author of the play Boris Godunov and the verse novel Eugene Onegin.
In this Pushkin story, Hermann attempts to seduce Lizavetya, the ward of a countess who knows three secret winning cards. Hermann loses his money and goes mad after accidentally betting on the title card of this story.
In Eugene Onegin, the title character kills Vladimir Lensky in one of these events. Alexander Pushkin himself died after he defended the honor of his wife by challenging a French officer to one of these events.
Alexander Pushkin
The Queen of Spades
duels &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: The Maphia appears in a book about this thing “with interruptions.” For 10 points each:
Name this thing, which “comes for the Archbishop” in a novel about Jean-Marie Latour. Emily Dickinson also wrote a poem about how she could not stop for this thing.
Mortality also occupied Gabriela Mistral, an author from this country. Her Sonnets of Death were inspired by the suicide of Romelio Ureta, a fellow native of this country.
This author wrote about a character created by Fernando Pessoa in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reyes. He also wrote the novels Blindness and Death with Interruptions.
death
Chile
Jose Saramago &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: This man wrote a poem that became known as the “negro national anthem.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who also wrote about a biracial man who decided to pass for white in The Autobiography of An Ex-Colored Man.
James Weldon Johnson was a part of a literary and artistic movement named for a “renaissance” of this neighborhood. That movement also included Langston Hughes.
Hughes wrote a poem that asks what happens to one of these things “deferred.” The title of Lorraine Hansberry’s A Raisin in the Sun is taken from that poem these things.
James Weldon Johnson
Harlem
a dream &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Mariano Azuela wrote the novel <em>The Underdogs</em> about the Mexican Revolution while living in this state. For 10 points each:
Name this state, the setting of Larry McMurtry's western novel Lonesome Dove, as well as Buzz Bissinger's reporting about a football team from Odessa collected in Friday Night Lights.
This author wrote about John Grady Cole, a native of Texas who works as a rancher in the novel All The Pretty Horses.
This novel by Cormac McCarthy includes the assassin Anton Chigurh chasing Llewellyn Moss, who has taken a suitcase of money he found at the scene of a shootout between drug dealers.
Texas
Cormac McCarthy
No Country For Old Men &lt;CD&gt;
Answer some questions regarding the Holocaust in literature, for 10 points each:
This Dutch girl’s diary was published by her father after her death at Bergen-Belsen in 1945. In her diary, this girl describes her stay in a “Secret Annex” with her family and the van Damms.
This nonfiction account by Elie Wiesel of his time in Auschwitz and Buchenwald was followed by two sequels. Moshe the Beadle attempts to warn his village of the impending doom in this book, with no success.
This author’s memoir If This Is a Man begins with an invocation to “You who live safe/In your warm houses”. This man’s short story collection The Periodic Table, describes a section of a man’s life in terms of an element.
Anne Frank [accept either underlined name]
Night
Primo Levi &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: A poem of this name mentions the shaving of Tom Dacre’s head. For 10 points each:
Give this title shared by two poems in the collection Songs of Innocence and Experience. A second poem with this title opens by describing “A little black thing among the snow / Crying ‘Weep!’ ‘Weep!’ in notes of woe.”
In this other William Blake poem, the title creature is addressed as “burning bright in the forests of the night” and asks, “What immortal hand or eye/ Dare frame your fearful symmetry?”
Blake asks “Did he who made” this creature “make thee” in “The Tyger.” In another poem, he asks this creature if it knows “who made thee.”
“The Chimney Sweeper”
“The Tyger”
lamb &lt;AB&gt;
This book received the 1989 Booker prize. For 10 points each:
Name this book, nominally about a motoring trip taken by Stevens. The trip serves as a frame story for his reflections on such things as the Nazi sympathies of his former employer and his love for Miss Kenton.
The Remains of the Day is by this author. In his novel Never Let Me Go, he wrote about Hailsham’s boarding school, where children raised to be organ donors are kept.
Ishiguro’s most recent novel is about a “buried” one of these creatures. These creatures inhabit Brobdingnag in Gulliver’s Travels, and a children’s tale involves Jack’s meeting with one of them after climbing a beanstalk.
The Remains of the Day
Kazuo Ishiguro
giants &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Rupa Mehra attempts to find the title boy for Lata in a novel set in this country. For 10 points each:
Name this country, which is home to the author of A Suitable Boy and a novel in verse consisting entirely of Onegin stanzas, titledd The Golden Gate.
This Indian-American writer collected stories such as “A Temporary Matter” and “This Blessed House” in her debut collection The Interpreter of Maladies. Her other works include the novel The Namesake.
In Lahiri’s novel The Namesake, Gogol’s father is rescued from the wreckage of one of these objects. Anna Karenina commits suicide by jumping in front of one of these vehicles.
India
Jhumpa Lahiri
trains &lt;EX&gt;
Morten Kiil buys stock in this place to dissuade his son in law from attempting to close it. For 10 points each:
Name this place, which Dr. Stockmann attempts to have closed due to its contamination by tannery runoff.
Dr. Stockmann appears in An Enemy of the People, a play by this Norwegian author. He also wrote A Doll’s House, which is the most-performed play of all time.
In this Ibsen play, the title character burns Eilert Lovborg’s manuscript, but after he dies at a brothel, the title character shoots herself in the head.
the Municipal baths
Henrik Ibsen
Hedda Gabler &lt;AB&gt;
This character is a Kokovokan native who builds fires for his idol Yojo. For 10 points each:
Name this supposed cannibal, whose coffin ends up saving the life of the narrator in a book that this character appears in.
That narrator opens the book by asking the reader to “Call me” this name. He joins the crew of the Pequod, which includes Queequeg, the boat’s harpooner
Queequeg and Ishmael appear in this Herman Melville novel, in which Captain Ahab hunts the title white whale.
Queequeg
Ishmael
Moby-Dick &lt;AB&gt;
Quentin relives his memories before a minimalist stage in this author’s <em>After the Fall</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this American dramatist, whose more famous works include a play about the Salem Witch Trials, The Crucible, as well as Death of a Salesman.
This protagonist of Death of a Salesman eventually drives his car off the road, much to the dismay of his sons Biff and Happy. This man cheats on his wife Linda with Miss Francis.
Joe Keller, the protagonist of Miller’s All My Sons, was exonerated for his role in shipping defective parts for these military devices. Joe blames his partner, Steve Deever, for the parts they shipped on these objects.
Arthur Miller
William “Willy” Loman [accept any underlined name]
airplanes [or engine cylinder heads] &lt;EX&gt;
It was written in a “hurricane of the spirit” while its author was a guest in the namesake castle. For 10 points each:
Name these ten poems, the first of which opens with the line, “Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?”
The Duino Elegies were written by this German author, who wrote the Sonnets to Orpheus in a three-week “savage creative storm.”
A Rilke poem named for an “archaic torso” of this Greek god ends with the line “You must change your life.” Homer called this brother of Artemis “hekaebolos,” or far-shooter, due to the wide reach of the sun's rays.
Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien]
Rainer Maria Rilke
Apollo &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: The title object of this short story is described as a watch wrapped in cotton. For 10 points each:
Name this short story, whose narrator insists that his only problem is an “over-acuteness of the senses.” The title object of this short story is taken from a man with a “vulture eye” and is hidden beneath some floorboards.
“The Tell Tale Heart” is a short story by this author of “The Raven.”
After the narrator of “The Raven” becomes agitated, he tells the bird to return to the tempest and to this other place. Earlier in the poem, the narrator had asked the bird “what thy lordly name is” on this place.
The Tell-Tale Heart
Edgar Allen Poe
night’s Plutonian shore [prompt on partial answer] &lt;AB&gt;
The Artful Dodger is part of a group of pickpockets led by the elderly Fagin in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this Charles Dickens novel in which Mr. Brownlow takes in the title orphan boy after he fails to pick Mr. Brownlow’s pocket. The title character of this novel asks for more gruel before being kicked out of an orphanage.
Miss Havisham lives in a house with stopped clocks in this novel by Charles Dickens. The convict Abel Magwitch turns out to be the mysterious benefactor of this novel’s protagonist, who befriends Herbert Pocket.
In this other Dickens novel, Krook dies of spontaneous combustion. Esther Summerson, the protagonist of this novel, is at the center of the long-running case Jarndyce v. Jarndyce.
Oliver Twist
Great Expectations
Bleak House &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: David Peterson created these for the show <em>A Game of Thrones</em>. For 10 points each:
Name these fictional creations exemplified by Fremen, Dothraki, Quenya, and Klingon.
J.R.R. Tolkien adapted Finnish into Quenya, which was the “high” form of this language found in The Lord of the Rings. That form of this language contrasted with the Welsh-inspired Sindarin.
Fremen is a less fleshed-out conlang found in this Frank Herbert novel, in which Paul Atreides leads a revolt against Baron Harkonnen and threatens to disrupt the trade in the drug Melange, or Spice.
constructed languages (or conlang)
Elvish
Dune &lt;CD&gt;
Bonus: A stay at the Tabard Inn prompts the stories that comprise this collection. For 10 points each:
Name this Middle English collection of stories told by a group of pilgrims who are collectively journeying to the title location. The first tale in this collection is told by the Knight.
This author of Troilus and Criseyde and the “Parliament of Fowls” included himself as an exceedingly boring character in The Canterbury Tales.
In the Wife of Bath’s tale, a knight guilty of raping a maiden is tasked by Queen Guinevere to discover this truth. When an old hag tells the knight this specific piece of information, he reneges on his promise to marry her.
The Canterbury Tales
Geoffrey Chaucer
what women most desire [accept answers that talk about what women want] &lt;EX&gt;
This author created a character named Caddy who apparently “smells like leaves.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who wrote about how Caddy’s brother drowns himself after going to Harvard.
Faulkner wrote a novel set in World War I named for this type of story. Some of them adapted by La Fontaine include “The Tortoise and the Hare” and “The Ant and the Grasshopper.”.
James Thurber, the author of a collection entitled Fables for Our Time, is more famous for writing a story about the “secret life” of this highly imaginative man, who mentally replaces his mundane life with adventure.
William Faulkner
fables
Walter Mitty [accept either first or last name] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: One poet writing in this language wrote about a woman who conceives a child while she is passed out in his novella <em>The Marquise of O--</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this language in which Heinrich von Kleist wrote. The “Sturm und drang” movement arose in literature written in this language.
This Romantic author wrote the German-language novel The Sorrows of Young Werther.
Heinrich Heine wrote the German poem “Die Lorelei” about a siren-like figure who lives on a cliff over this German river. A popular German song is about the “Watch on” this river, defending against the French.
German
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
Rhein [or the Rhine] &lt;CD&gt;
This author wrote a novel that begins with the arrival of Colonel Joll’s Third Bureau forces. For 10 points each:
Name this author, who received two Booker prizes for The Life and Times of Michael K. and Disgrace. The Magistrate is tortured in his novel Waiting for the Barbarians.
In Coetzee’s novel Disgrace, David Lurie loses this job due to his affair with a student. In Don Delillo’s novel White Noise, Jack Gladney has this kind of job, in which he specializes in Hitler Studies.
A Coetzee novel about Elizabeth Costello mentions her advocacy for the rights of these beings. The Australian philosopher Peter Singer is an advocate for vegetarianism due to his concern for the rights of these organisms.
J.M. Coetzee
university professor [or teacher]
animals &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Kashiwagi seduces women with his club feet in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel, which ends with Mizoguchi burning down the title structure after he remembers the koan “if you meet the Buddha, kill the Buddha.”
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion was written by this Japanese author of the Sea of Fertility tetralogy, who died via seppuku on live TV after he led a failed fascist coup.
The first book in the Sea of Fertility tetralogy is titled after the “Spring” form of this phenomenon. In a Robert Frost poem, the narrator stops by some woods on an evening during which this weather phenomenon is occurring.
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion [or Kinkaku-ji]
Yukio Mishima
snow [accept snowy] &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: Alquist recognizes Primus and Helena as Adam and Eve figures for this race. For 10 points each:
Name these beings, which kill all humans except for Alquist in the play R.U.R. Isaac Asimov formulated three laws for these beings in a short story collection titled after them.
R.U.R. was written by Karel Capek, a playwright who wrote in this language. Jaroslav Hasek’ novel The Good Soldier Svejk [“shvike”] is the most-translated novel ever written in this language.
The Czech politician Vaclav Havel wrote a play with this English title. The New Zealand author Katherine Mansfield wrote about the Sheridan family in a short story with this title.
robots
Czech
The Garden Party &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: For 10 points each, answer the following about <em>The Prince</em>:
The Prince was written by this Italian political philosopher and author of the Discourses on Livy.
Machiavelli dissuades against the use of these people in war, as they are motivated by money instead of loyalty.
In a metaphor for risk taking, Machiavelli likens this concept to a woman that must be held down and beaten. Cesare Borgia is given as an example of a man who came to power through this thing rather than virtue.
Niccolò Machiavelli
mercenaries
fortune &lt;SAM&gt;
This novel ends with the line “So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel narrated by Nick Carraway. The title character of this novel attempts to win back Daisy Buchanan after getting rich in the 1920s.
In The Great Gatsby, a man who wears cufflinks made of human teeth, named Meyer Wolfsheim, is revealed to have fixed this sporting event.
In a Fitzgerald short story, Bernice is taught by Marjorie how to be a society girl and is frequently teased about performing this action. When Bernice eventually does perform this action, the boys lose interest in her.
The Great Gatsby
1919 World Series
she bobs her hair [accept getting her hair cut or other equivalents, such as getting short hair] &lt;EX&gt;
This novel was recently adapted into a film by Netflix. For ten points each:
Identify this novel about a young boy named Agu who is trained to be a child soldier in the rebel forces of the Commandant.
Uzodinma Iweala, the author of Beasts of No Nation, based the book on his thesis while studying at this University based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Another Harvard graduate was this female Canadian author of a dystopian novel about Offred, who is a member of the Mayday movement and lives in the Republic of Gilead.
Beasts of No Nation
Harvard
Margaret Atwood &lt;MM&gt;
This play's chorus is made up of the title figures, who hunt Orestes for murdering his mother. For 10 points each:
Name this third play in Aeschylus's Oresteia trilogy.
This mother of Orestes was murdered after she killed her husband Agamemnon and had an affair with Aegisthus. Her ghost rouses the Eumenides at the opening of the play.
This goddess, the daughter of Zeus, casts the deciding vote to acquit Orestes. Her symbol is the owl, and she was a virginal goddess of wisdom.
The Eumenides
Clytemnestra
Athena &lt;CD&gt;
In one work in which this character appears, he encounters an omniscient dragon who reveals the true nature of the shaper’s powers to him. For ten points each:
Name this descendant of Cain who loses to a battle to Beowulf. After his mother’s failed attempt at vengeance, Beowulf takes this monster’s arm as a trophy.
Beowulf was composed in this language. Another work in this language also found in the Nowell Codex is the poem Judith.
This man wrote about Beowulf in his work Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics. More famously, he created a collection of novels centering around the exploits of a young hobbit by the name of Frodo Baggins.
Grendel
Old English (prompt on English)
John Ronald Reuel Tolkien &lt;MM&gt;
This author is described as hearing a sound that “brought/Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow/Of human misery”. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient author used by a Victorian poet to illustrate the loss of faith and imagination in his then-contemporary age.
This poem, beginning “The sea is calm to-night”, contains that line about “Sophocles long ago”, as well as a description of “The Sea of Faith”. Guy Montag reads this poem aloud in Fahrenheit 451.
Dover Beach was written by this author, who describes himself as “Wandering between two worlds, one dead/The other powerless to be born” in his “Stanzas from the Grande Chartreuse”.
Sophocles
Dover Beach
Matthew Arnold &lt;EX&gt;
Bonus: Esteban exiles Pedro Tercero from his farm in this work. For 10 points each:
Name this book. It opens with the childhood of Clara de Valle, who has ill-specified telepathic and telekinetic powers. This book’s focus shifts to Alba in the second half, and ends with her sitting pregnant and alone.
The House of the Spirits is by this Argentinian author. She also wrote several works featuring and titled for Eva Luna.
Allende belongs to this loosely defined literary movement, characterised by the mixing of supernatural elements with natural themes. Other prominent practitioners include Salman Rushdie.
The House of the Spirits
Isabel Allende
magical realism &lt;AB&gt;
Bonus: The Old Man and Old Woman throw themselves out of a window in a play by him. For 10 points each:
Name this author of The Chairs, who included a soliloquy by Berenger in his play Exit the King. Berenger also resists transforming into the title animal in his play Rhinoceros.
Ionesco is often identified as a member of this European literary movement, whose name name was coined in an essay that draws from “The Myth of Sisyphus”. Waiting for Godot is exemplary of this movement’s style.
Waiting for Godot was written by this Irishman who wrote most of his oeuvre in French. His other plays include Endgame and Krapp’s Last Tape.
Eugene Ionesco
Theatre of the Absurd [or absurdism]
Samuel Beckett &lt;AB&gt;
This object represents a historical period of about 2000 years in a poem that begins “Turning and turning in” one of these which is “widening.” For 10 points each:
Name this object that represents a spinning world. In the Lewis Carroll poem “Jabberwocky”, the slithy toves are said to “this” and gimble in the wabe.
This poem, foretelling a Messianic arrival, declares that “Surely some revelation is at hand”. It ends with the ominous image of a “rough beast” who “Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born”.
This Irish poet and mystic wrote The Second Coming, as well as The Tower and an acclaimed introduction to Rabindranath Tagore’s Gitanjali.
gyre
The Second Coming
William Butler Yeats &lt;EX&gt;
One poem by this author consists entirely of “The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petals on a wet, black bough.” For 10 points each:
Name the Imagist author of “In a Station of the Metro,” who wrote about a man who “strove to resuscitate the dead art of poetry” in “Hugh Selwyn Mauberly.”
Parts of Pound’s magnum opus, The Cantos, are often named for this country. Pound included characters used in languages of this country, such as Mandarin and Cantonese, throughout the poem.
This other Imagist poet is known for terse poems such as “This is Just to Say” and “The Read Wheelbarrow.”
Ezra Pound
China
William Carlos Williams &lt;AB&gt;
Charles Dickens wrote five novels about this holiday, including <em>The Cricket on the Hearth.</em> For 10 points each:
Name this holiday when Ebenezer Scrooge enters the world newly kindhearted, after having been visited by the ghosts of this holiday's past, present, and future.
This author wrote “A Christmas Memory” where a boy named Buddy loses contact with his elderly cousin who develops dementia. This author also wrote Breakfast at Tiffany's.
This memoirist chronicled working as an elf named Crumpet at Macy's in “The Santaland Diaries.” His essay collections include Me Talk Pretty One Day and Let's Explore Diabetes With Owls.
Christmas
Truman Capote
David Sedaris &lt;CD&gt;
[Question writers forgot a leadin.]
Name this novel, which consists of the title poem by the fictional John Shade and equally fictional comments on it by Charles Kinbote.
The author of Pale Fire is also famous for this other novel, in which Humbert Humbert is pursued by Inspector Trapp and takes in Charlotte Haze’s daughter.
This is the author of Pale Fire and Lolita. He described some of the chess problems he constructed in his memoir Speak, Memory.
Pale Fire
Lolita
Vladimir Nabokov &lt;AB&gt;
This man falls in love with Elizabeth Lavenza and destroys one of his creations after seeing a figure watching intently from a window. For 10 points each:
Name this graduate of the University of Ingolstadt who is nursed to health by Henry Clerval. This scientist runs away from his most famous creation in terror and eventually dies in the Arctic.
Frankenstein was written by this author, who was inspired to write it over the course of the “Year Without a Summer” while visiting Switzerland with Lord Byron and her husband, Percy.
This captain of the ship that Viktor Frankenstein finds himself on creates the frame story of the novel through letters he writes to his sister, Margaret. This man eventually witnesses the creature’s departure on an ice raft.
Viktor Frankenstein [accept either underlined name]
Mary Shelley
Captain Robert Walton [accept either underlined name] &lt;EX&gt;
This book includes a creepy eight-legged robot called “the Hound” that tracks criminals. For 10 points each:
Name this book, in which the fireman Montag becomes disillusioned with his society in general and his vapid wife Mildred in particular.
Fahrenheit 451 was written by this author, who also wrote the spiritual duology Dandelion Wine and Something Wicked This Way Comes.
Bradbury wrote a series of short stories collected as this place’s “Chronicles.” That collection includes a story about an automatic house without inhabitants in the aftermath of a nuclear war, “There Will Come Soft Rains.”
Fahrenheit 451
Ray Bradbury
Mars &lt;AB&gt;
Ex-con Hugo Kalmar spends much of this play unconscious. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which drunks like Larry and Don discuss their pipe dreams while waiting for “Hickey” Hickman in Harry Hope’s saloon.
The Iceman Cometh is a play by this American dramatist, who wrote about the struggles of the Tyrone family in Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Near the play’s end, Hickey shatters everyone’s pipe dreams by confessing to this crime after the police arrive. Hickey begs to go to the electric chair for committing this crime.
The Iceman Cometh
Eugene O’Neill
murdering his wife Evelyn [prompt on murder or killing; must specify either his wife or Evelyn to earn points]
This character is celebrating his 33rd birthday in the first section of the novel, the section he narrates. For 10 points each:
Name this autistic member of the Compson family who gives a nonlinear story of the events of April 7, 1928 and his whole life in Yoknapatawpha County, Mississippi.
Benjy and his siblings Caddy, Jason and Quentin appear in The Sound and the Fury, a novel by this Southern author of Absalom! Absalom!.
The Sound and the Fury opens with Benjy at a golf course with this character. Throughout the novel, this young servant constantly begs Jason Compson for money for a minstrel show.
Benjy Compson
William Faulkner
Luster
Answer the following about “The Convergence of the Twain”, for 10 points each:
The poem, which mourns the sinking of the Titanic, is by this British author, who is more famous for writing novels like Tess of the d’Urbervilles and Jude the Obscure.
The title mocks this other poet’s line that “East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet.” This author wrote addressed "The White Man's Burden" to Teddy Roosevelt.
“The Convergence of the Twain” is unusually written in eleven of these stanzas. Villanelles use five of these stanzas followed by a quatrain.
Thomas Hardy
Rudyard Kipling
tercets [or three-line stanzas]
This novella mentions the Song of Family, the Song of Evil, the Song of the Enemy, and the Song of the Undersea. For 10 points each:
Name this short novel whose protagonist, Kino, attempts to sell the title object, until his son Coyotito is shot.
This American wrote The Pearl as well as other short novels like Of Mice and Men, and a few novels that could have been a whole lot shorter, like East of Eden.
Steinbeck set East of Eden, Tortilla Flat, The Red Pony, Of Mice and Men, and many other works, in this California valley, his hometown.
The Pearl
John Steinbeck
Salinas Valley
William Saroyan wrote a 1943 novel with this title set in Ithaca and loosely based on the <em>Odyssey</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this title, which is shared by a realist collection of nearly one hundred novels and short stories by Honoré de Balzac.
Balzac’s gritty realism sharply contrasted with this then-popular literary movement which emphasized emotions and often included fantastical events. This movement was itself a reaction against the logic of the Enlightenment.
Balzac turned to naturalism in this novel, one of his last. In this novel, the Baron Hulot poisons Valerie and her second husband and ex-lover Crevel, in a scheme orchestrated by Hulot’s distant relative, the title character.
The Human Comedy [or La Comedie humaine]
Romanticism [or the Romantic Era; prompt on Gothic literature]
La Cousin Bette
The title place of this musical is described as a place where “the wavin’ wheat can sure smell sweet.” For 10 points each:
Name this musical centering on a love triangle between Curly, Jud and Laurey in a Midwestern state. This musical has songs like “Oh What a Beautiful Morning” and “People Will Say We’re In Love.”
Oklahoma! is a collaboration between Hammerstein and this composer, who he teamed up with on The Sound of Music and South Pacific. He had previously worked with lyricist Lorenz Hart.
In this number from Oklahoma!, Curly describes the vessel on which he plans to take Laurey to the box social. The title object of this song is something from which “chicks and ducks and geese better scurry.”
Oklahoma!
Richard Rodgers
“The Surrey With the Fringe on Top”
Answer the following about the nonfiction writing of EM Forster, for 10 points each:
Forster defended this author’s reputation in an obituary published in The Nation. Forster testified at the obscenity trial of Penguin Books for publishing this author’s graphic 1928 novel about Connie and Oliver Mellors.
Forster’s literary criticism includes a text titled for the “aspects” of one of these things. Forster’s own output in this literary genre includes A Room with a View and Howards End.
Forster wrote a travelogue “history and guide” to this city, where he was stationed during WWI. Lawrence Durrell wrote a quartet titled for this African city, which was the birthplace of Constantine Cavafy.
DH Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence; the book is Lady Chatterley’s Lover]
novels [or Aspects of the Novel]
Alexandria, Egypt
This poem’s speaker laments, “My sight searches for her as though to go to her/My heart looks for her, and she is not with me.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, whose title in the first line is followed by the example, “The night is shattered/And the blue stars shiver in the distance.” It is the twentieth poem in the collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
This poet wrote Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, as well as the Canto General.
The title of the eighth section of the Canto General declares that the Earth’s name is this. A legendary womanizer in Spanish literature is given this name.
“Tonight I Can Write the Saddest Lines” [or “Tonight I Can Write”]
Pablo Neruda [or Naftali Ricardo Reyes]
Juan [or Don Juan; or “The Earth’s Name is Juan”]
This activity is apparently a form of “music-making” for every independent player, and especially for the Ludi Magister. For 10 points each:
Name this secret activity practiced by those in the Castalian Order. Joseph Knecht becomes a master of it, then quits and drowns.
The Glass Bead Game was the final novel of this German Nobel Laureate who also wrote Siddhartha and Steppenwolf.
Steppenwolf and The Glass Bead Game are both examples of this genre of novel, typified by Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship. These coming-of-age novels trace a young character’s moral and psychological development.
the Glass Bead Game [or Das Glasperlenspiel]
Hermann Hesse
bildungsroman novels
Name some poets who wrote about the lies of war, for 10 points each:
In his most well-known poem, this author wrote, “My friend, you would not tell with such high zest/To children ardent for some desperate glory/The old lie, Dulce et Decorum est/Pro patria mori.”
In this author’s poem “my sweet old etcetera,” the speaker reflects on his father’s enthusiasm for patriotism during war. This author of “anyone lived in a pretty how town” wasn’t a big fan of capitalization.
This author wrote a poem titled for a casualty of the Civil War, Knowlt Hoheimer, who looks up at the marble angel on his tomb, inscribed “Pro Patria.” This American created characters like Lucinda Matlock and Thomas Rhodes.
Wilfred Owen
ee cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
Edgar Lee Masters
Nineteen of these punctuation marks are used over sixteen lines of verse in “I heard a Fly buzz when I died.” For 10 points each:
Name this punctuation mark which is used at the end of nearly every line of “Much Madness is divinest Sense” and “Because I could not stop for death.”
Dashes and slant rhymes were especially prevalent in the poetry of this reclusive “Belle of Amherst.”
This other dash-heavy Dickinson poem ends with the stanza, “I’ve heard it in the chillest land--/And on the strangest sea--/Yet --never-- in extremity/It asked a crumb -- of me.” It describes a “bird that kept so many Warm.”
dash [or a hyphen]
Emily Dickinson
“Hope is the thing with feathers” [or 314]
This polity is led by Golbasto Momarem Evlame Gurdilo Shefin Mully Ully Gue and by his obnoxious admiral Skyresh Bolgolam. For 10 points each:
Name this island which appoints government servants by their ability to walk on a tightrope. The palace of this island, which is inhabited by Little-Endians, is saved from a fire by a vast torrent of urine.
Lilliput is the first island visited by this character in a novel by Jonathan Swift.
On his final voyage, Gulliver visits the land of the Huoyhnhnms, which is inhabited by these mutant humans, whom Gulliver describes as being akin to animals.
Lilliput
Lemuel Gulliver [or Gulliver’s Travels]
Yahoos
This author included “Dulse” and two stories titled for the Chaddeleys and Flemings in her short story collection <em>The Moons of Jupiter</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this contemporary short story author who also wrote the collection Dance of the Happy Shades.
Munro’s story “Dulse” centers on a woman who visits the vacation home of this much earlier American author. This author’s short story output includes “Paul’s Case”, but she’s better known for novels like The Song of the Lark.
The New Yorker has published many of Alice Munro’s stories, though none attracted as much attention as this Shirley Jackson story, about a town that stones unlucky participants in an annual celebration.
Alice Munro
Willa Cather
“The Lottery”
This poem was written in twelve books in a clear homage to Virgil. For 10 points each:
Name this poem which attempts to “justify God’s ways to man”, and largely describes the activities of Satan after he loses a war against heaven.
Paradise Lost is the masterpiece of this blind English author.
Milton’s inferior follow-up to Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, largely describes this Biblical event. Nikos Kazantzakis wrote a frequently-banned book titled for this New Testament event.
Paradise Lost
John Milton
the temptations of Christ [or the last temptation of Christ; accept obvious equivalents like Satan tempting Jesus]
This character falls flat dead the day after he finally encounters Rodolphe, thus abandoning his daughter Berthe to work in a cotton-mill. For 10 points each:
Name this character who marries Heloise Dubuc after ignominiously graduating with a medical degree. The narration abruptly switches from this character’s perspective to that of his second wife in Chapter Five.
This French realist wrote Madame Bovary.
Flaubert’s search for “le mot juste”, or “just the right word”, influenced this student of his. This much more prolific author created strong female characters like Elizabeth Rousset and Mathilde Loisel in his short stories.
Charles Bovary [or Charles Bovary or Monsieur Bovary or similar answers]
Gustave Flaubert
Guy de Maupassant
This poem’s speaker says, “We sing, but oh the clay is vile/Beneath our feet, and long the mile.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem by Paul Laurence Dunbar about an object that “grins and lies/hides our cheek and shades our eyes.”
Dunbar ended his poem “Sympathy” with this seven-word phrase, after describing an animal that “beats his wing/Till its blood is red on the cruel bars.” This phrase also titles a 1969 memoir partly set in Arkansas.
This African-American poet used the line from Dunbar as the title of her autobiography. She read a poem at Bill Clinton’s inauguration
“We Wear the Mask”
“I know why the caged bird sings” [do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Annie Johnson]
This author’s translations of Ovid’s <em>Amores</em> got him into trouble with the law. For 10 points each:
Name this Elizabethan author of Doctor Faustus who mysteriously died in a barroom brawl at the age of 29, unless he didn’t and really wrote all of Shakespeare’s plays, as some conspiracy theorists would have it.
Advocates of the Marlovian authorship hypothesis point to a scene in this play in which Barabbas says, “What star shines yonder in the east?” This rather anti-Semitic play is set in the Ottoman Mediterranean.
Although both Marlowe and Shakespeare published in quarto format, with four leaves per page, the first collection of Shakespeare was published in the “First” of these books, which instead has two leaves per page.
Christopher Marlowe
The Jew of Malta
folios [or the First Folio]
Name some appearances of the Devil in fiction, for 10 points each:
Young Goodman Brown encounters a man in black, who brings him to a witch’s sabbath, in a story by this American novelist of The Scarlet Letter.
Jabez Stone is represented by this lawyer, against the Devil himself, in a story by Stephen Vincent Benet that parodies an earlier story by Washington Irving.
A failed voice actor in this 20th century novel grows horns and turns into a goat, which gets him arrested by the London police. In contrast, another character in this novel turns into the angel Gabriel.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
Daniel Webster [prompt on Daniel]
The Satanic Verses
Name some Imagist poets, for 10 points each:
This man was briefly an Imagist before splitting with the movement’s leaders. He is best-known for writing about an object “beside the white chickens” on which so much depends, “The Red Wheelbarrow.”
This self-proclaimed leader of the Imagists wrote the “Pisan” section of The Cantos while in exile in Italy. His long poem Hugh Selwyn Mauberley is autobiographical.
A female Imagist with this surname wrote the collection A Critical Fable and the poem “Patterns.” An earlier relative with this surname wrote A Fable for Critics and the Biglow Papers.
William Carlos Williams
Ezra Pound
Lowell [or Amy Lowell; or James Russell Lowell]
A socialist pedophile in this novel is reading every book in the library in alphabetical order. For 10 points each:
Name this 1938 “manifesto” of existentialism. Its protagonist is writing a biography of a French aristocrat but is impeded by a funny feeling he gets whenever he holds a rock.
In this existentialist play, a military deserter named Garcin is harassed for all eternity by Ines and Estelle in a small room with atrocious decorations.
Both Nausea and No Exit were written by this French patron of existentialism and author of Being and Nothingness.
Nausea [or La Nausée]
No Exit [or Huis Clos]
Jean-Paul Sartre
Description or title acceptable. John Hawkins and Thomas Tyers wrote earlier, similar, but inferior versions of this book. For 10 points each:
Name this book written in 1791 as a sequel to The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. It mentions the publication of Lives of the English Poets and Rasselas.
Samuel Johnson imitated Juvenal’s Satires in a poem titled for this city. William Blake’s poem titled for this city begins, “I walk thro’ each charter’d street” and describes “mind-forg’d manacles.”
Johnson’s most enduring work was one of these reference books, used as the standard in English for 150 years. Oxford publishes authoritative English versions of these books.
The Life of Samuel Johnson [or The Life of Johnson; or James Boswell’s biography of Samuel Johnson; accept any same-knowledge equivalents; prompt on biography or similar answers]
London, England
dictionaries [or word forms; or the Oxford English Dictionary; or A Dictionary of the English Language]
In his short story titled “Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow”, this author described a futuristic society where pretty much nobody dies. For 10 points each:
Name this author of classic sci-fi stories like “Harrison Bergeron” and novels like Cat’s Cradle and Breakfast of Champions.
Vonnegut wrote about time-travelling Billy Pilgrim in this novel which, in a more serious scene, describes the fire-bombing of Dresden.
In “All the King’s Horses”, Vonnegut wrote about one of these events forced upon a captive US army pilot and fifteen other men. A robot kills its creator after one of these events in Ambrose Bierce’s story “Moxon’s Master.”
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
Slaughterhouse-Five
a game of chess [or a chess match]
This tradition included several memorable <em>zanni</em>, such as the Harlequin. For 10 points each:
Name this style of late Renaissance European comedy which featured stock characters like the Doctor, Pantalone, and Colombina.
Virtually all male characters in the commedia wore these objects. Two of these objects, one representing comedy, and the other representing tragedy, are common symbols of ancient Greek theater.
Masks are common in the noh musical theater of this country, which was popular in the 1300s. In the 19th century, this country's theater was characterized by lots of makeup.
commedia dell’arte [prompt on commedia]
masks
Japan [or Nippon]
Dorrigo Evans is the protagonist of a Richard Flanagan novel with this title, which won the Booker Prize in 2014. For 10 points each:
Name this common title in English, which is shared by a travelogue written in the 17th century in haibun verse, one of the most important texts of Japanese literature.
This author of Narrow Road to the Deep North is best-known for verses about a frog jumping into a pond, one of his many haikus.
The first and last lines of a haiku both have this many syllables. Most of Shakespeare’s poetry consists of this many feet per line.
Narrow Road to the Deep North [or Narrow Road to the Interior]
Matsuo Basho
five
With a few friends, this author founded the Bow Street Runners. For 10 points each:
Name this 18th century English author of Tom Jones. He wrote Shamela to parody Samuel Richardson’s Pamela.
Many Fielding novels, but especially Tom Jones and Joseph Andrews, are often described as fitting this genre, in which a comical hero of low social status goes on adventures and pokes fun at society.
Another picareqsue, The Luck of Barry Lyndon, was written by this 19th century satirist, who is best-known today for writing Vanity Fair.
Henry Fielding
picaresques
William Makepeace Thackeray
Characters that perform this action finally “complete” and die, and a rumor that some can “defer” this action for up to three years due to true love is denounced by Miss Emily. For 10 points each:
Name this action which is performed by Tommy, Ruth, and most of the other students of Hailsham. Kathy H. is a “carer” for people who perform this action.
Clones donate organs in Never Let Me Go, which was written by this British-Japanese author of The Remains of the Day.
Never Let Me Go is usually classified in this genre of science fiction. Novels in this genre take on a negative vision of the future, rather than a positive utopia.
“donation” [or word forms; or organ donation; or other obvious equivalents; accept any specific organs]
Kazuo Ishiguro
dystopian literature
Name some French authors who wrote about education, for 10 points each:
This Renaissance author lampooned contemporary educational methods in his hilariously-satirical, massive five-part novel Gargantua and Pantagruel.
This later Frenchman wrote a “Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar” in a treatise about education. His Confessions laid the framework for the modern autobiography.
After only fourteen years of imprisonment, a little education transforms Edmond Dantes from a naive sailor into a genius revenge-driven madman in this author’s novel The Count of Monte Cristo.
Francois Rabelais
Jean-Jacques Rousseau
Alexandre Dumas
Characters killed in this novel include Uncle Pio and the Marquesa de Montemayor. For 10 points each:
Name this five-part novel in which Brother Juniper witnesses a catastrophe at the title structure in Lima, Peru. It won the 1928 Pulitzer Prize.
This author of The Bridge of San Luis Rey wrote about the Antrobus family surviving three disasters, including an ice age, in The Skin of Our Teeth.
Wilder also wrote this play set in Grover’s Corners, New Hampshire. In this play, the Stage Manager breaks the “fourth wall” to narrate to the audience about the Gibbs and Webb families.
The Bridge of San Luis Rey
Thornton Wilder
Our Town
“In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.” For 10 points each:
That mantra is usually first attributed to this wit of the Northern Renaissance in his book Adagia. This humanist author of Handbook of a Christian Knight was less revolutionary than Reformation colleagues like Martin Luther.
The saying is quoted in this Portuguese author’s novel Blindness. This Nobel Prize-winning author wrote The Stone Raft.
This British sci-fi pioneer borrowed the quotation for his long story The Country of the Blind. He also wrote War of the Worlds and The Time Machine.
Desiderius Erasmus Roterodamus
José Saramago
HG Wells [or Herbert George Wells]
This albino character has red eyes, no eyebrows, and hires Mr. Micawber because he cannot conceive that anybody is <em>that</em> incompetent in business. For 10 points each:
Name this character who blackmails Mr. Wickfield and tries to marry his daughter Agnes, but is stymied by Tommy Traddles.
Agnes Wickfield ends up marrying this character, after Dora Spenlow dies in childhood. This character introduces the novel, “Whether I should turn out to be the hero of my own life...these pages must show.”
David Copperfield is the most autobiographical novel by this author of Great Expectations and Oliver Twist.
Uriah Heep [or Uriah Heep]
David Copperfield [or David Copperfield]
Charles Dickens
Answer the following about paralyzingly-boring fictional speeches that go on for pages and pages, for 10 points each:
John Galt gives a sleep-inducing speech for seventy pages in this Objectivist author’s novel Atlas Shrugged. She also wrote Anthem.
Somehow, Julian West manages to stay awake during a dreadfully long, insulting sermon in this novella, which describes a Utopian Communist society that Julian visits. Spoiler alert: the entire novel was all a dream.
This novel ends with a painfully long speech in eight enormous run-on sentences, finally mercifully coming to an end with the phrase “yes I said yes I will Yes.” That section is often called Molly Bloom’s soliloquy.
Ayn Rand [or Alisa Zinov'yevna Rosenbaum]
Looking Backward: 2000 to 1887
Ulysses
The three sections of this novel are titled “Fear”, “Flight”, and “Fate.” For 10 points each:
Name this novel whose protagonist, Bigger Thomas, accidentally smothers a white girl, then flees from the police.
Richard Wright also wrote a short story collection titled for this character’s children. This character, who was created by Harriet Beecher Stowe, is often criticized for his docility toward slave-masters.
In his essay collection Notes of a Native Son, this author critiqued both Stowe and Wright. This author wrote about a gay man named David in a novel titled for an Italian bartender.
Native Son
Uncle Tom [or Uncle Tom’s Cabin]
James Baldwin [that book is Giovanni’s Room]
Name some authors that wrote about shipwrecks, for 10 points each:
The Abraham Lincoln wrecks after being attacked by Captain Nemo’s submarine in this author’s tale 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
Paul Pokriefke is born the day of a shipwreck in this author’s 2002 novella Crabwalk. This German author described his days in the SS in the memoir Peeling the Onion and also wrote a trilogy named for the city of Danzig.
A nobleman washes up on an island passing through the International Date Line in a novel by this author. Jorge of Burgos poisons the pages of a book by Aristotle, killing three men, in a mystery by this author.
Jules Verne
Günter Grass
Umberto Eco
Description acceptable. This poem ends by mentioning that, “if you with patient ears attend/What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.” For 10 points each:
Name this sonnet which describes a place where “civil blood makes civil hands unclean,” and mentions that, “from forth the fatal loins of these two foes/A pair of star-crossed lovers take their life.”
The prologue, like any classical Shakespearean sonnet, has this many lines.
Awkwardly, Shakespearean’s 99th sonnet actually has 15 lines, and sonnet 126 has 12. Both of those poems are addressed to this unnamed person, the designee of most of the sonnets.
the prologue to Romeo and Juliet [accept any answer that describes the poem that comes before Romeo and Juliet, such as preface or introduction]
14
the Fair Youth [or the Fair Lord]
Answer the following about literary depictions of Leon Trotsky, for 10 points each:
Trotsky is depicted as one of these animals named Snowball in Animal Farm. Napoleon, also one of these creatures, dictatorializes the farm.
Ludvik Jahn writes, “Long live Trotsky!” in this author’s debut novel The Joke. This man also wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
David Ives’ Variations on the Death of Trotsky is included in his collection All in the Timing, which consists entirely of plays with this characteristic. The Bald Soprano also has this characteristic.
pigs [or boars]
Milan Kundera
one-act plays [or plays with only one act; or obvious equivalents]
This character is nearly framed for theft when she winds up with a hundred rubles in her pocket. For 10 points each:
Name this character who receives a copper cross from Lizaveta, then gives another cross to Raskolnikov. She goes to Siberia in the epilogue of Crime andPunishment.
This Russian author of The Brothers Karamazov created Raskolnikov, the murderer, and his redeemer Sonya, in Crime and Punishment.
Raskolnikov is Dostoyevsky’s take on this philosophical character, who was first hypothesized by Nietzsche [NEETCH-uh], and is able to transcend normal morality, making him a “superman”. Give the term in German.
Sonya Marmeladova
Fyodor Dostoyevsky [or Fyodor Dostoevski]
übermensch [prompt on English translations similar to “superman” or “overman”]
This character’s true identity is alluded to, after another character looks “exceedingly knowing” about an incident and gives a “hearty laugh” at the mention of a pumpkin. For 10 points each:
Name this mysterious character, revealed to be Brom Bones in disguise, whose actions lead to the re-appearance of old Gunpowder in Tarry Town without his saddle.
Brom Bones’ “Headless Horseman” ruse makes Ichabod Crane disappear in “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow,” a short story by this American author of “Rip van Winkle.”
This alter ego of Washington Irving is the supposed author of “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.” A postscript “in the handwriting” of this man informs the reader that the story-teller doesn’t believe the tale either.
the “Headless Horseman”
Washington Irving
Diedrich Knickerbocker
Many of this author’s most famous poems are collected in <em>The Tower</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Irishman who wrote “The Second Coming” and “Sailing to Byzantium.”
Yeats began “Sailing to Byzantium” by proclaiming that this is “no country” for these people. Sheriff Ed Bell tracks a series of gruesome murders in a 2005 American novel titled for these people.
This Yeats poem describes creatures that “paddle in the cold/Companionable streams, or climb the air/Their hearts have not grown old.” This poem is set where “under the October twilight the water/Mirrors a still sky.”
William Butler Yeats
“old men” [or “No Country for Old Men”; prompt on men; prompt on old people]
“The Wild Swans at Coole”
After this character’s death, a manager’s boy points out, “he dead.” For 10 points each:
Name this ivory-crazy tradesman from Heart of Darkness whom Marlow unsuccessfully fetches. He dies uttering, “The horror! The horror!”
This Polish-British author wrote Heart of Darkness.
Marlow makes the trip up the Congo with the help of around twenty people that Conrad refers to with this word, because of the long poles that they carry. These sailors are obsessed with ivory too.
Mr. Kurtz
Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad]
the “pilgrims”
An Anthony Hecht poem mentions that Matthew Arnold’s girl “had read/&lt;this author&gt; in a fairly good translation, and caught that bitter allusion to the sea.” For 10 points each:
Name this author, who, according to another poem, heard the “eternal note of sadness” which brought “into his mind the turbid ebb and flow of human misery.”
Sophocles’ Antigone is staged by cellmates in The Island, a play by this author. This author criticized apartheid in a Broadway hit about the black men Willie and Sam, and their “master” Hally.
This classical playwright snubbed Sophocles, calling Aeschylus and Euripides the greatest tragic playwrights, in his comedy The Frogs. He also wrote Lysistrata.
Sophocles
Athol Fugard
Aristophanes
This character wins the game of Questions, 27 to 3, without even knowing that he was playing, though he does have six rhetoricals and two repetitions. For 10 points each:
Name this character who blows out a lantern, then swaps out a letter. In Act III, this character jumps into the leftmost barrel on a pirate ship, opposite both the Player and the two title characters, and never returns onstage.
Hamlet’s “To be or not to be” speech takes place completely offstage, though, in this tragicomedy written by Tom Stoppard, which retells the story of Hamlet.
Because it’s parodying Hamlet, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead takes place largely in this European country, of which Hamlet is the prince.
Prince Hamlet
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
Denmark
In as much gruesome detail as you can muster, describe how each of these characters created by Edgar Allan Poe dies. For 10 points each:
In “The Tell-Tale Heart”, the narrator kills the old man in this manner. After it slashes Madame L’Espanaye’s [LESS-pawn-ay's] throat with a razor, an orangutan kills her daughter in this way in “The Murders in the Rue Morgue.”
In “The Cask of Amontillado”, Montresor presumably kills Fortunato by doing this to him, then waiting for him to suffocate. The narrator of “The Black Cat” accidentally does this to the cat, but this time the cat lives.
Prince Prospero and the rest of his guests at a colorful seven-room ball die from this disease in an 1842 Poe story.
suffocation [or smothering; or strangling; or choking; or squeezing his/her throat; or asphyxiation; or other equivalents that involve not receiving sufficient oxygen to live]
walling him up [or enclosing him in walls; or entombment; or locking up in a catacomb; or being buried alive; any similar answers involving small confined spaces are fine]
the Red Death [or the Masque of the Red Death; prompt on plague]
Answer the following about epic theater, for 10 points each:
Epic theater goes thoroughly against the principles of drama established by this ancient Greek philosopher, who proposed five criteria for a tragic hero and three unities in his Poetics.
Epic theater was pioneered by this playwright, who collaborated with Kurt Weill on The Threepenny Opera and also wrote The Caucasian Chalk-Circle.
Brecht advocated a minimalist approach to this subject. This French term refers to all of the elements inside the visual frame, such as props, costumes, lighting, composition, and staging.
Aristotle
Bertolt Brecht
mise-en-scène
Answer the following about magicians in literature, for 10 points each:
Isaac Singer wrote The Magician of Lublin in Yiddish, a language spoken by Ashkenazi [osh-ken-AWE-zee] Jews, which is a mixture of German and this other language.
This author criticized fascism in a story about the grotesque magician Cipolla. He wrote a novella set in Italy, in which Gustav van Aschenbach [osh-en-BAWK] dies of cholera, after having some confusing orgiastic thoughts about a young boy.
In a magic show in this novel, every woman attending gets some free fancy clothes, which later disappear with hilarious consequences. A woman in this novel is magically turned into a naked flying witch in order to host a ball.
Hebrew
Thomas Mann
The Master and Margarita (by Mikhail Bulgakov) [or Master i Margarita]
This poetic form is used in Goldsmith’s <em>The Deserted Village</em> and throughout <em>Absalom and Achitophel</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this poetic form mastered by John Dryden, which consists of rhyming pairs of lines, one after the other.
The heroic couplet was further leveraged by this witty 18th century poet, who wrote classic lines like “Fools rush in where angels fear to tread” and “A little learning is a dangerous thing” in An Essay on Criticism.
Dryden also translated this author’s epic poem, the Aeneid, into heroic couplets.
heroic couplet [prompt on couplet]
Alexander Pope
Virgil [or Publius Virgilius Maro]
A character spends most of this play reading a newspaper, pointing out headlines like a child of eleven killing a cat, or an 87-year old man getting hit by a carriage while crossing the street. For 10 points each:
Name this play which ends with one character walking back onstage from out of the kitchen, but without his jacket, waistcoat, and revolver. Most of this play involves one character screaming into a speaking-tube.
The Dumb Waiter was written by this modern English playwright and actor who wrote comedies of menace like The Birthday Party.
Pinter often gets “-esque” appended to his name, in homage to this Czech-German author of similarly eerie tales. Pinter adapted this author’s novel The Trial.
The Dumb Waiter
Harold Pinter
Franz Kafka
This author wrote about the abusive relationship of Marvin Macy and Amelia Evans in her novella <em>The Ballad of the Sad Cafe</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Southern Gothic author who wrote about John Singer, who has nothing better to do than listen to Biff Brannon and Jake Blount complain, in her novel The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.
In The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, John Singer is afflicted with this condition. The main character of Ambrose Bierce’s “Chickamauga” is a child with this medical condition.
Carson McCullers is from this US state, the setting of The Heart is a Lonely Hunter. This state is also the setting of James Dickey’s Deliverance and MacKinley Kantor’s Andersonville.
Carson McCullers
being deaf-mute [accept deaf and clear-knowledge equivalents alone, as Singer technically only acts mute and simply never speaks; prompt on “mute” and clear-knowledge equivalents; accept more general answers like “having the inability to hear or speak”]
Georgia
James Sheppard, the narrator of <em>The Murder of Roger Ackroyd</em>, admits that he killed Roger Ackroyd solely for the purpose of fooling this man. For 10 points each:
Name this character who relies heavily on his “little grey cells” to solve The Mysterious Affair at Styles, among others.
Agatha Christie’s characterization of Poirot borrows much from this detective created by Arthur Conan Doyle.
Poirot eventually figures out that twelve different people murdered Mr. Ratchett in this Christie novel, which was both written in, and partially set in, Istanbul.
Hercule Poirot [ay-CEW PWAH-row] [accept any reasonable pronunciations though]
Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock Holmes]
Murder on the Orient Express
All three acts of this play have the same setting--a room furnished “comfortably and tastefully, but not decoratively.” For 10 points each:
Name this realist play that famously ends with the protagonist slamming the door in her husband Torvald’s face.
This Norwegian playwright scandalized audiences with his play A Doll’s House.
Nora gets into her legal difficulties after forging this character’s signature on a bank loan to take Torvald to Italy. Nora complains that both Torvald and this character treated her like she was living in a doll’s house.
A Doll’s House [or Et dukkehjem]
Henrik Ibsen
her father [or Mr. Helmer]
This author leveraged his Catholic upbringing in the novel <em>Earthly Powers</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this British author who mused over whether or not bad people being conditioned to do good is morally righteous in his novel A Clockwork Orange.
This British Catholic author wrote four books known as his “Catholic” novels, including The Power and the Glory and The Heart of the Matter.
This British author converted to Catholicism in 1930. In his best-known novel, which is narrated by Charles Ryder, Lord Marchmain converts from Anglicanism to Catholicism.
Anthony Burgess
Graham Greene
Evelyn Waugh
Sigmund Freud was obsessed with this author’s story “Colloquy of the Dogs,” which is often considered one of the forerunners of psychoanalysis. For 10 points each:
Name this novelist. In a scene written by this author, a barber tries to burn down a library, but is stopped by a priest, who reads the title of each book before it is burned, and ends up saving a real-life novel by this author.
Soon after returning home to find his library burnt down, Don Quixote picks up this fat companion, who joins the quests solely for the purpose of getting to rule his own island.
Right after Sancho joins the fun, he has to stop Don Quixote from charging at some of these objects, which he thinks are giants. They aren’t.
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
Sancho Panza [or Sancho Panza]
windmills [or windmills or molinos]
After seeing a chalk-mark made by a robber, this character marks off every house in the neighborhood with the same symbol. For 10 points each:
Name this slave woman who pours boiling oil into pots to kill thirty-eight robbers and stabs Cogia Hassan to complete the killing of all forty thieves.
Morgiana is the servant to this character, who discovers a treasure after declaring “Open, Sesame” at some rocks.
The story of Ali Baba and the forty thieves is told in this cycle, which consists of a bunch of tales like told by Scheherazade [shuh-HAIR-uh-zawd] to stave off her execution. This collection also includes stories about Sinbad and Aladdin.
Morgiana
Ali Baba
The Arabian Nights [or the One Thousand and One Nights; or Kitab alf layla walayla]
After singing this phrase and laughing hysterically, a character explains that, “Unless you carry on like a hyena you’re not having fun.” For 10 points each:
Name this question, which, in the last line of the play, is frankly answered “I am George, I am.”
This character admits to being absolutely terrified of Virginia Woolf at the end of that play by Edward Albee. In a pretty obvious historical reference, she’s married to George.
Inexperienced readers ought to be afraid of Virginia Woolf, too, since she often employs this convoluted device, in which a narrator describes his or her disorganized feelings. James Joyce pioneered this narrative style.
“Who’s afraid of Virginia Woolf?”
Martha
stream of consciousness
This story ends on a cliffhanger with the protagonist watching a cigarette carton burn in a fire. For 10 points each:
Name this story by Daphne du Maurier [MORE-ee-ay] in which Nat Hocken and his boss, Mr. Trigg, are tormented inside a farmhouse in Cornwall for days, after their neighbors are all gruesomely killed.
The British horror story has its origins in this epistolary novel written by Mary Shelley.
This British author wrote a horror story titled “The Lifted Veil”, but she is probably better-known for a novel whose many protagonists include Tertius Lydgate and Dorothea Brooke.
“The Birds”
Frankenstein; or the Modern Prometheus
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
The League of Humanity was formed for the rights of these creatures. For 10 points each:
Name these creatures who rebel and kill nearly everybody at Rossum’s Factory in a play by Karel Capek. Isaac Asimov described three laws for these creatures.
Nathanael goes mad after seeing a mechanical doll named Olimpia created by Coppelius and Spallanzani in this short story by ETA Hoffman. Hans Christian Andersen invented the fairy-tale character who titles this story.
A bloody mechanical doll titles an early sci-fi novel by this author, who pioneered the locked-room genre with his “Mystery of the Yellow Room.” He also wrote The Phantom of the Opera.
robots [or androids; or Rossum’s Universal Robots]
“The Sandman” [or “Der Sandmann”]
Gaston Leroux
This poet wrote about his emigration from America to England in “Ash Wednesday.” For 10 points each:
Name this poet who wrote “The Hollow Men” and “The Wasteland.”
In “The Hollow Men,” T.S. Eliot claims the world ends not with a bang, but in this way.
In the same poem, there are said to be no eyes in the valley of these things. Voices in the wind’s singing are said to be more distant and solemn than them.
T.S. Eliot
a whimper
fading stars
John collects a bunch of info about this this fictional creator of the atomic bomb and father of Newt, Angela, and Frank for his book <em>The Day the World Ended</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this scientist who invented ice-nine.
Felix Hoenikker plays the title game with his son in this novel. Ice-nine destroys the world in this novel that includes the fictional religion of Bokononism.
Cat’s Cradle was written by this American author of Breakfast of Champions and Slaughterhouse-Five.
Dr. Felix Hoenikker [prompt on “Hoenikker,” accept “Felix”]
Cat’s Cradle
Kurt Vonnegut
Curly admires the scenery in “Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin’” in this musical. For 10 points each:
Name this musical where Jud Fry and Curly McLain square off to win Laurey’s hand in marriage.
Oklahoma! Was written by this two-person team who also wrote The Sound of Music.
In the first act of Oklahoma!, Ado Annie “cain’t” say this word to Will Parker or Ali Hakim.
Oklahoma!
Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II
“No”
A character in one of this man’s works learns of his mother’s death via telegram; that work begins with the line “Mother died today.” For 10 points each:
Name this French-Algerian author of The Myth of Sisyphus and The Stranger.
This man exhibits a lack of emotion and refuses to mourn after the death of his mother and the murder he commits in The Stranger.
In this other novel by Camus, Dr. Rieux joins forces with Jean Tarrou, Dr. Castel, and Raymond Raybert in combatting the title phenomenon that afflicts this work’s setting, Oran.
Albert Camus
Meursault
The Plague [accept “La Peste”]
The two characters in this play argue over the distinctions between “light the kettle” and “put on the kettle.” For 10 points each:
Name this play in which a whistle down the title contraption indicates to Ben that he is supposed to kill Gus.
This other play by the same author sees a pianist living in a boarding house taken away by Goldberg and McCann after the title event.
The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party were both written by this British playwright.
The Dumb Waiter
The Birthday Party
Harold Pinter
The speaker of this poem insists that the title figure is not “mighty and dreadful.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, the tenth in a series, whose title entity is a “slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men.”
This poet of “Death, be not proud” also wrote “Thy firmness makes my circle just, / And makes me end where I began” in “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.”
“Death, be not proud” is an example of this fourteen-line poetic form, one variety of which is named for Petrarch.
“Death, be not proud”
John Donne
sonnets
This magical realist novel deals with India’s transition from British rule to independence. For 10 points each:
Name this book narrated by Saleem Sinai, who was born on August 15, 1947, India’s independence day.
This British-Indian author of Midnight’s Children was issued a fatwa calling for his assassination by the Ayatollah Khomeini for his novel The Satanic Verses.
This “half and halfer” in Midnight’s Children, the grandfather of Saleem Sinai and father of Amina, struggles with the existence of God throughout the novel.
Midnight’s Children
Salman Rushdie
Aadam Aziz [accept either name]
Ermes Marana is the antagonist of this novel in which you fall in love with Ludmilla. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the Reader serves as the protagonist of the odd chapters, while the even chapters are all the first chapter of a different novel.
This Italian author wrote If on a winter’s night a traveler. His other works include Invisible Cities and The Baron in the Trees.
Italo Calvino’s novel Invisible Cities includes conversations between Marco Polo and this ruler, whose city of Xanadu is described in a Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem.
If on a winter’s night a traveler
Italo Calvino
Kublai Khan
The main character of this novel was born from a stone egg, has a weapon that weighs 17,550 pounds, and meditated in Laozi’s furnace. For 10 points each:
Name this 16th-century Chinese novel in which Sun Wukong, Pigsy, and Sandy accompany the monk Xuanzang to atone for their sins.
The gang leaves China and goes to retrieve sutras from Buddha on Vulture Peak, which is in this modern-day country.
Also on the journey is Bai Longma, the Dragon King of the West Sea, who was saved from execution and takes the form of this animal.
Journey to the West [accept Xī Yóu Jì, prompt on just Monkey]
India
a horse
This author provided personal, narrative accounts of the Soviet-Afghan War in her book <em>Boys of Zinc</em>. For 10 points each:
Name this Soviet-born, Belarusian author whose work Voices from Chernobyl helped win her the 2015 Nobel Prize in Literature.
This other Soviet Nobel Prize winner was stripped of his citizenship following the publication of The Gulag Archipelago. He also wrote One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
The Soviet Union forced Boris Pasternak to decline the Nobel Prize that he was awarded following the publication of this novel about Lara and the title physician.
Svetlana Alexievich
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
Doctor Zhivago
The narrator of this poem asks the reader if there is a “balm in Gilead” and ponders over “forgotten lore”. For 10 points each:
Name this poem that begins “Once upon a midnight dreary,” and whose title bird says “Nevermore”, a poem by Edgar Allan Poe.
In "The Raven,” the narrator expresses sorrow over the loss of this "rare and radiant maiden.” The narrator whispers this dead woman's name while grieving.
Another figure referenced in “The Raven” is the goddess Athena, using this name. The raven sits, perched upon the bust of this figure above the narrator's chamber door.
"The Raven"
Lenore
Pallas Athena
In this short story, Castillo worries about cosmic heat-death while trying to nurse a bird back to life and Meatball throws a party that devolves into chaos. For 10 points each:
Name this short story, whose title quantity can be decreased using a Nefastis machine in a different work.
In this other work by the author of Entropy, Oedipa Maas meets the inventor of the Nefastis machine while on her search to understand the meaning of the Trystero.
Entropy and The Crying of Lot 49 were both written by this reclusive, American author of Gravity’s Rainbow.
Entropy
The Crying of Lot 49
Thomas Pynchon
The title character of this play is implied to commit suicide with a razor. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the title character dreams about opening a hotel at Lake Como with her valet, Jean.
This playwright of The Ghost Sonata wrote Miss Julie.
August Strindberg hailed from this country, which was also home to the first female winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature, Selma Lagerlof.
Miss Julie
August Strindberg
Sweden
The protagonist of this novel finds a pamphlet titled “The Black Plague” when she comes back from New York to visit her father. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the protagonist is horrified to find Henry and her dad at a Citizen’s Council meeting.
The protagonist of Go Set a Watchman is this daughter of Atticus Finch.
Like the much more inspiring To Kill a Mockingbird, Go Set a Watchman was written by this author.
 Go Set a Watchman
Scout Jean Louise Finch  [accept either underlined part]
Harper Lee
This character tries to seduce the fifteen-year-old sister of a guy who later pays off his debts. For 10 points each:
Name this womanizing soldier who elopes with the young and impulsive Lydia.
This character, who pays off Mr. Wickham’s debts, marries the second eldest Bennet daughter, Elizabeth.
Mr. Wickham, Mr. Darcy, and Elizabeth Bennet all appear in this Jane Austen novel.
Mr. Wickham
Mr. Darcy
Pride and Prejudice
This short story concerns a title location that consists of infinite hexagons. For 10 points each:
Name this short story about a title location that contains every possible permutation of 25 characters in 410-page books.
This Argentine author included “The Library of Babel” and “The Garden of Forking Paths” in his short story collection, Ficciones.
In this other story by Borges, the poet Carlos Daneri insists that he needs the title infinite object in order to finish his work.
“The Library of Babel”
Jorge Luis Borges
“The Aleph”
This character blows a horn named Oliphant so hard that his temple explodes. For 10 points each:
Name this title character who serves in Charlemagne’s army in an early work of French literature.
Roland owns one of these weapons named Durendal. Arthur became king by pulling one of these from a stone.
Roland is betrayed by this guy, who happens to be his stepfather. He gives away Roland’s position to Marsilla’s army.
Roland
sword
Ganelon
Name some things about supermarkets in literature. For 10 points each:
This poet wrote about seeing Garcia Lorca and Walt Whitman in “A Supermarket in California.” He also wrote the poem “Howl.”
This American author wrote about a supermarket in his short story “A&amp;P.” He also wrote a series of novels about Rabbit Angstrom.
In this Kenzaburo Oe novel, Takashi leads an uprising against a Korean supermarket owner nicknamed the “Emperor.”
Allen Ginsberg
John Updike
The Silent Cry
One character in this play says he would “love to help humanity on a Warner Brothers salary” while another plays “cops and robbers” with a kid named Bert. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Joe Keller commits suicide after his friends and family learn he was guilty of shipping faulty airplane parts during WWII.
Abigail Williams accuses several people of witchcraft during the Salem Witch Trials in this allegorical play for the Red Scare by the same playwright of All My Sons.
The Crucible and All My Sons were both written by this American playwright who also wrote about Willy Loman’s final days in Death of a Salesman.
All My Sons
The Crucible
Arthur Miller
Merchant men are cat-like and rat-like at this location. For 10 points each:
Name this poem where the title creatures entreat Laura and Lizzie to “Come buy, come buy.”
This author of “Goblin Market” also wrote the carol "In the Bleak Midwinter."
Christina Rossetti’s brother painted Beata Beatrix in homage to this author, with whom he shares his first name, who included Beatrice as a guide in his Paradiso.
“Goblin Market”
Christina Rossetti
Dante Alighieri [or Dante Alighieri]
This novel begins with a landlady’s nephew describing his interactions with the title character. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Harry Haller stabs Hermine in the Magic Theater and struggles with his animalistic nature.
Steppenwolf was written by this German author of Siddhartha and The Glass Bead Game.
This early Hesse novel was published under the pseudonym Emil Sinclair, which is the name of the confused protagonist led to self-realization by his classmate Max.
Steppenwolf [or Der Steppenwolf]
Hermann Hesse
Demian
In this book, Mildred turns in her husband to the authorities, led by Captain Beatty. For 10 points,
Name this book, in which Guy Montag rebels against society’s laws on burning books. It was written by Ray Bradbury in 1953.
When Montag finds himself reading a book taken from a woman whose house he burned, he seeks this man, who provides Montag with an earpiece so they can communicate.
In the third section of this short story collection by Bradbury, humanity rebuilds itself on another planet in the aftermath of a nuclear war on Earth. It includes the story “-And the Moon be Still as Bright”
Fahrenheit 451
Faber
The Martian Chronicles
Mollser dies of tuberculosis and Nora has a stillbirth in the last act of this play. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which Jack Clithero dies while fighting in the Easter Rising.
The Plough and the Stars was written by this playwright of The Shadow of a Gunman and Juno and the Paycock.
O’Casey is a playwright from this country, which serves as the setting of all three plays in his Dublin Trilogy.
The Plough and the Stars
Sean O’Casey
Ireland
Despite committing numerous affairs, Al-Sayyid Ahmad Abd al-Jawad insists that his family follow strict Muslim doctrine in this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Amina is struck by a car and breaks her collarbone after praying at the Al-Hussein Mosque while her dominating husband is on a trip.
Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street form a trilogy by this author. He also wrote Children of Gebelawi.
That trilogy by Mahfouz is named for this city, the capital of Egypt, which often serves as the setting for his novels.
Palace Walk
Naguib Mahfouz
Cairo
The speaker of this poem states that “The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem, a celebration of the human form.
“I Sing the Body Electric,” like the thematically similar “Song of Myself,” is included in this poet’s collection Leaves of Grass.
In this Whitman poem, the proofs and figures presented in the lecture room make the speaker tired and sick, so he goes to look “up in perfect silence at the stars.”
“I Sing the Body Electric”
Walt Whitman
“When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer”
In this play, the Father encounters the Stepdaughter in a brothel. For 10 points each:
Name this play in which the Director’s rehearsal is interrupted by the title figures.
This character from Six Characters in Search of An Author shoots himself with a revolver at its end.
This author of Six Characters in Search of an Author wrote about a man who falls from a horse and becomes convinced he’s a Holy Roman Emperor in Henry IV.
Six Characters in Search of An Author
The Boy
Luigi Pirandello
Answer some things about a novel in which Maureen and Bamford flee and cling to their battery-powered radio in hopes of rescue while housed in a bucolic village. For 10 points each:
This character, formerly a servant of the Smales family, shelters them in his home despite his wife’s objections. The Smales are labeled as this character’s people.
In addition to writing July’s People, this author’s The Burger’s Daughter describes Rosa’s acceptance of her father’s involvement in the South African Communist Party.
Both The Burger’s Daughter and July’s People were banned by the South African government due to Gordimer’s criticism of this South African policy of segregation.
July
 Nadine Gordimer
apartheid
The speaker of this poem complains “Water, water, everywhere / Nor any drop to drink” and describes how “The deathfire danced at night” and “slimy things did crawl with legs”. For 10 points each:
Name this poem in which the speaker tells the Wedding Guest “He prayeth well, who loveth well / Both man and bird and beast” after shooting an albatross.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner is by this English poet who collaborated on Lyrical Ballads with William Wordsworth.
Coleridge also wrote, but did not finish, this narrative poem in which the title character encounters an apparently supernatural girl named Geraldine.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Christabel
The title character of this novel befriends Richard the Lionheart, who had disguised himself as the Black Knight. For 10 points each:
Name this novel that sees the title son of Cedric the Saxon wed Rowena.
This Scottish author of Rob Roy wrote Ivanhoe.
This novel by Sir Walter Scott gives its title to a series of historical novels. It follows Edward as he discovers, enters, and ultimately abandons the Jacobites.
Ivanhoe
Sir Walter Scott
Waverley
Sorcerers, Sowers of Discord, False Prophets, and other frauds are located in this circle of Hell. For 10 points each:
Name this circle of hell that is subdivided into ten different pockets and is also known as Malebolge.
The Eighth Circle of Hell is one of nine that appear in this work by Dante Alighieri. This first part of the Divine Comedy was followed up by Purgatorio and Paradiso.
This Monster of Fraud carries Dante and Virgil on his back as he flies them down the cliff between the seventh and eighth circles of Hell.
Eighth Circle
Inferno
Geryon
The Year of Glad marks the end of Subsidized Time in this lengthy novel capped with 388 endnotes. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Hal Incandenza attends the Enfield Tennis Academy, founded by his father James.
Infinite Jest is a novel by this American essayist, whose last unfinished novel The Pale King was a finalist for the 2012 Pulitzer Prize in Fiction.
Wallace also wrote this collection of essays, which includes coverage on John McCain’s 2000 presidential campaign and an essay on the ethics of boiling the title animal.
Infinite Jest
David Foster Wallace
Consider the Lobster
In this novel, the green-haired Rosa the Beautiful dies from a poisoning intended for her father, in accordance with Clara’s prediction. For 10 points each:
In this novel, Clara’s telekinetic powers not only foresee her sister’s death but also her engagement to Esteban Trueba.
This author of The House of the Spirits also wrote Eva Luna, in which the orphaned title protagonist’s father figure has a cleft lip and is known as “the Turk.”
Like the poet of Sonnets of Death, Gabriela Mistral, Isabel Allende is from this South American country.
The House of the Spirits [accept La casa de los espíritus]
Isabel Allende
Chile
The narrator of this poem describes how he always hears “Time’s winged chariot hurrying near.” For 10 points each:
Name this poem that opens with the line “Had we but world enough, and time.” The narrator urges the title figure to “sport” while they may.
This English, metaphysical poet wrote “To His Coy Mistress,” as well as “An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell’s Return from Ireland.”
This pastoral poem by Marvell begins “How vainly men themselves amaze / to win the Palm, the Oak, or Bays.”
“To His Coy Mistress”
Andrew Marvell
“The Garden”
This character decides to stop growing on his third birthday. For 10 points each:
Name this character who can use a piercing shriek to shatter glass.
Oskar Matzerath is the protagonist of this novel, which is titled for his most treasured possession.
This author’s Danzig Trilogy, which includes Cat and Mouse and The Tin Drum, explores the effects of the war on the namesake free city.
Oscar Matzerath [accept either name]
The Tin Drum [accept Die Blechtrommel]
Gunter Grass
A curse on this house resulted in several pesky incidents of cannibalism, murder, and revenge. For 10 points each:
Name this house, whose three-generation curse began with Tantalus when he fed his son Pelops to the gods in an effort to test their power.
This trilogy of plays describes the efforts of the title hero to avenge his father’s death and thus end the curse, written by Aeschylus.
In the final play of the Orestia, the Eumenides, Athena is forced to make the final decision after the jury’s deliberation results in this.
House of Atreus
The Orestia
“tie” [accept “deadlock”]
June Star and John Wesley complain about going to Tennessee in this short story. For 10 points each:
Name this Southern Gothic short story in which the grandmother exclaims “You’re one of my own children!” before being killed by The Misfit.
This author of the novel Wise Blood also wrote “A Good Man Is Hard to Find.”
A traveling Bible salesman, Manley Pointer, steals Hulga’s prosthetic leg after convincing her to go on a date with him in this Flannery O’Connor short story.
“A Good Man Is Hard to Find”
Flannery O’Connor
“Good Country People”
This small American island has been home to a large number of writers, including Tennessee Williams, Elizabeth Bishop, and Robert Frost. For 10 points each:
Name this island on which you can find both the Ernest Hemingway House and the late author’s six-toed cats.
This other frequent inhabitant of Key West wrote a poem about that location’s “idea of order,” though he’s probably better known for his poem “The Emperor of Ice-Cream.”
This Hemingway novel centers on a character named Harry Morgan. The Great Depression forces Morgan to run contraband between Cuba and Key West.
 Key West
Wallace Stevens
To Have and Have Not
The memory of ubiquitous portraits of Number One haunts the protagonist of this novel. For 10 points each,
Name this dystopian novel set during the Soviet purges, in which Rubashov confesses after three hearings and is executed in prison.
Darkness at Noon was written by this Hungarian-born British author before the German invasion forced him to flee Paris.
Rubashov recalls betraying a German Communist in one of these locations. Brave New World describes a massacre at a British one, and Clarisse mourns in Fahrenheit 451 that now they only contain abstract works.
Darkness at Noon  [accept “Sonnenfinsternis”]
Arthur Koestler [accept “Kösztler Artúr”]
art museums [accept “art galleries” or obvious equivalents]
Most of the warriors in this novel are killed during the Rebellion of Fang La, and the remainder are killed by Gao Qiu. For 10 points each:
Name this novel by Shi Nai’an about 108 warriors in a wet region of China.
This historical Protector of Justice was released from a stone tortoise and led the band of 36 Heavenly stars and 72 Earthly stars in Water Margin.
This American author spent most of her early life in China and wrote a translation of Water Margin. She also wrote the novel The Good Earth.
Water Margin [accept Outlaws of the Marsh, or All Men are Brothers, or Shui hu Zuan]
Song Jiang [accept either]
Pearl S. Buck
“So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,” claims one poem, this figure will live. For 10 points each,
Name this “master mistress of” a certain poet’s “passion”, who has “a woman’s face with nature’s own hand painted.”
Sonnet 18 famously compares the Fair Youth to this period of time, saying he is “more lovely and more temperate” than it because “sometimes too hot the eye of heaven shines.”
The Fair Youth contrasts with this other addressee of Shakespeare’s sonnets, whose “eyes are nothing like the sun.” The sonnets dedicated to her are more overtly passionate.
the “Fair Youth”
a summer’s day
the “Dark Lady”
Lord Henry’s friend, Basil Hallward, paints the title object of this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which the title character tries to stab a painting of himself, but only ends up killing himself.
The Picture of Dorian Gray was the only novel by this Irish playwright of Lady Windermere’s Fan and The Importance of Being Earnest.
Dorian Gray falls in love with this pure, beautiful actress. She commits suicide after Dorian breaks up with her following a poor performance in front of his friends.
The Picture of Dorian Gray
Oscar Wilde
Sybil Vane  [accept either]
In one work by this author, the main character gets shipwrecked on an island of tiny people called Lilliputians. For 10 points each:
Name this Irish satirical writer who wrote about the title character’s adventures to places like Brobdingnag in Gulliver’s Travels.
In his satirical essay, A Modest Proposal, Swift suggests that to ease their economic troubles, the poor Irish people should sell their children to the wealthy so the children can serve this purpose.
Swift also authored this satirical work about a father who leaves clothing that is not allowed to be altered to his three sons, who each represent a branch of Christianity.
Jonathan Swift
food for the wealthy [accept obvious equivalents about the children being eaten]
A Tale of a Tub
Charles marries the title character of this novel after his wife Heloise dies, for 10 points each:
Name this debut novel of Gustave Flaubert, which focuses on a doctor’s wife who yearns for luxury and romance, culminating in numerous affairs.
This is the first name of Madame Bovary, whose last name was Rouault before marrying Charles Bovary.
Another Flaubert novel, Salammbo, focuses on the title priestess and daughter of this Carthaginian general, after the First Punic War.
Madame Bovary
Emma
Hamilcar Barca
This collection of poems caused its author to be known as the “Father of Latin American Modernism.” For 10 points each:
Name this collection of poems which contains "Primaveral" in its section, El año lírico.
This poet wrote the poem “Amo, amas” and created the collection Azul.
Ruben Dario hails from this central american country with a capital at Managua.
Azul
Rubén Darío
Nicaragua
This character narrates a story about a black washerwoman who fears she will be killed by her husband in “That Evening Sun.” For 10 points each:
Name this character who tells his Harvard roommate about Thomas Sutpen and commits suicide by drowning himself in the Charles River.
Quentin Compson appears in both Absalom, Absalom! and this other stream of consciousness novel, in which Benjy claims that Caddy smells like trees.
Absalom, Absalom! and The Sound and the Fury were both written by this Southern Gothic author.
Quentin Compson [prompt on “Compson”]
The Sound and the Fury
William Faulkner
Aminadab tells Aylmer that if he were married to Georgiana, he’d never part with the title object of this work. For 10 points each:
Name this short story in which Aylmer uses a potion to try to rid his wife of the title object that looks like a crimson hand.
This American author wrote “The Birthmark.” He also wrote novels like The House of the Seven Gables and The Scarlet Letter.
In this other Hawthorne short story, Reuben Bourne feels guilty about leaving his fiancee’s father to die in the woods. He later accidentally shoots his son on the same spot where the title character was left to die.
“The Birthmark”
Nathaniel Hawthorne
“Roger Malvin’s Burial”
This French writer and protégé of Gustave Flaubert set many of his stories during the Franco-Prussian War, for 10 points each:
Name this man, part of the naturalist school of writers. His first published story, Ball of Fat, involves the title prostitute escaping a Prussian occupied city.
In this Maupassant story, Mathilde loses the title object and purchases a replacement for 36,000 francs, going into debt and spending the next 10 years in poverty repaying it.
Mathilde’s husband gives her 400 francs to buy a dress; he had been saving the money to buy this object.
Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant
The Necklace [or La Parure]
hunting rifle [prompt on gun or firearm]
This man participates in the ritual killing of his ward Ikemefuna. For 10 points each:
Name this protagonist of Things Fall Apart who hangs himself rather than go to trial in a colonial court.
This author of Things Fall Apart also wrote about Okonkwo’s grandson Obi’s eventual acceptance of a bribe in No Longer at Ease.
Achebe criticised this author’s Heart of Darkness in his lecture titled “An Image of Africa” for its support of colonialism and othering of African people and cultures.
Okonkwo
Chinua Achebe
Joseph Conrad [accept Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
This work advises the reader to leave an outlet open when surrounding an enemy’s army. For 10 points each:
Name this ancient text on military strategy, filled with maxims such as “appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.”
This military commander wrote The Art of War during the Warring States Period on strips of bamboo. He trained 180 of the king’s concubines to be soldiers as proof of his abilities.
In The Art of War, Sun Tzu recommends this action to drive troops from their camp when the wind allows. This action is also the title of the penultimate chapter of the text.
The Art of War
Sun Tzu [accept Sun Zi, Sun Wu, or Changqing]
attacking by fire [accept obvious equivalents, like burning]
John the Savage was the only man born to Londoners without the use of this process. For 10 points each:
This process makes ninety-six perfectly formed human embryos from one egg. This process was used extensively at the London Hatchery.
Bokanovsky’s Process is used in this novel to produce human beings in order to fill predetermined castes. In this novel, citizens of the World State consume soma as an intoxicant.
This British author wrote Brave New World, as well as Point Counter Point.
Bokanovsky's Process
Brave New World
Aldous Huxley
Grand Isle, a resort in southern Louisiana owned by Madame Lebrun, is the setting for most of this novel. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Edna Pontellier drowns herself in the Gulf of Mexico after having an affair with Robert Lebrun.
This American author wrote The Awakening. She also wrote the short stories “A Night in Acadie” and “The Story of an Hour.”
In this story by Kate Chopin, Armand disowns his wife and child when the baby appears to have African American ancestry that he discovers too late is his own.
The Awakening
Kate Chopin
“Desiree’s Baby”
Some of this book’s narrators include Pampinea, Filomena, and Panfilo, for 10 points each:
Name this collection of stories told by a group sheltered in a villa outside Florence to escape the Black Death epidemic in the city.
This Italian humanist and correspondent of Petrarch wrote The Decameron.
The man who tells this numbered story each day, Dioneo, is allowed to tell a tale on any topic he wishes. There are this number of nights of storytelling in the work.
The Decameron
Giovanni Boccaccio
ten
This character is one of few who find the charming Richard Mason hideous. For 10 points each:
Name this character who marries Mr. Rochester after coming to Thornfield Hall.
Jane Eyre was written by this author of Villette and Shirley.
After leaving Gateshead, Jane is welcomed by Miss Miller and Miss Temple and meets Helen Burns at this school.
Jane Eyre [accept either name]
Charlotte Bronte
Lowood School
The protagonist of this work kisses a girl after she sings “I Have Nothing” while they sit on a deck watching a fire. For 10 points each:
Name this novel in which Toru is torn between his love for Midori and Kizuki’s ex-girlfriend, Naoko.
This Japanese author of Norwegian Wood has also written Kafka on the Shore and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.
Toru and Nagasawa become friends due to their mutual love of this Fitzgerald novel. Toru compares the light coming from Naoko’s room to the green light coming from Daisy’s dock in this novel.
Norwegian Wood
Haruki Murakami
The Great Gatsby
